US	49782972	R3QXPU3NVPUO5Q	0812918711	599622205	The Cold War Is Over	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Blah	What I really wanted I never got from this book. While a nice, survey of the events of the cold war, never once, does the author attempt to explain the root of the conflict in the arena of ideas. Never does he try to go beyond political dogma. After reading an excellent biography of Eisenhower, which did much more justice to the small part of the cold war involved ...I found this work lacking. It is also particularly myopic in that the author never revised the work in view of the collaspe of soviet union as a whole.	2002-08-06
US	49782972	R218PBRHNKZH8M	1580624316	11984513	Eisenhower	Books	4	5	5	N	N	A quick 600 pages	Very well written, it lends itself to being read in a few days. It portrays Ike as a very complex and multifaceted man, much more than I had expected before reading it. I remember, not being able to wait until Ike goes to war in Europe. But actually the African Campaign is the most tedious reading in the book. The most entertaining part of the book, was the political intrigue of the presidency, which I enjoyed immensly. Still, I wish that there had been more about Ike's relationship with Nixon and more explanation of his mysterious final address, in which he spoke of the growing power of the military-industrial complex.	2002-08-06
US	49782972	RAW8OMJH984YS	1566491975	814277996	Medieval World: Europe 1100-1350	Books	3	14	19	N	N	Unsteady	When and where the author has a passion and an authority of knowledge for the subject, the book shines and brings forth a depth of knowledge, and genuine caring and understanding of the situation at hand. His descriptions of the power of religious movements in europe coinciding with the black plague are brilliant, his expose on the splits within the catholic church also shine. However, there are many other areas which are either too broad or he is too disinterested in to do more than give a cursory and maybe even shabby overview. This is a textbook, and would not be reccommended for casual reading.	2002-05-22
US	49782972	R39XVFOYY93125	0679729526	58983679	The Aeneid (Vintage Classics)	Books	4	2	7	N	N	An Interior Work	The Aeneid the final work resultant of the Illiad, ties the foundation of rome to the mythic hero of Troy, Aeneas. Juno (Hera) carries on her passionate hatred of Troy on to the few survivors guided by Aeneas. <BR>The Aeneid is probably the least of the works of the Illiad trilogy, the Illiad the greates, the Odyssey just below, and the Aeneid the least, but the least of some very good work.<BR>The Aeneid written by Virgil, is distinctly different from the others written by Homer. Homer's work while complex, is still on a grand scale, with broad strokes, but does so as brilliantly as an other works in the same category.<BR>The Aeneid can truly be appreciated by the level of introspection that Virgil brings to the trilogy, there is more investigation of the interior life of a hero, and of those around him.<BR>The most dynamic passages are the early ones concerning Dido, and Aeneas' final battle to secure the future Rome. The Aeneid stops mid-sentence, but does not leave you unsatisfied. There is a sensitivity in the Aeneid which saves the work, but does not elevate it to the level of its father, the Illiad.	2002-05-22
US	49782972	R2Y8UKGOKVLUGE	0684840057	505830594	Radical Son: A Generational Odyssey	Books	4	15	16	N	N	Much more than a political essay	This is truly an autobiography, and one in which the author spends the time and the courage to face down many of his inner demons and past wrongs. There is no other book which I have read which better relates why the left as it existed in the 60's and 70's was truly evil. No matter how prejudiced you may considered yourself in either direction of the political spectrum the story will certainly make you reconsider what you thought you knew. Betrayal would be the overarching theme to the work, personal and political and often the two are intertwined such that they are not distinguishable from each other. <BR>The reason I rate this 4 instead of 5, is that I think that often times the author convieniently paints himself out of the picture, whenever he reports truly questionable or disturbing radical activities, that I believe he must have surely been involved in.<BR>If you consider yourself a political animal, no matter your stripe, pick up this book, either as ammo or to prepare your defense.	2002-05-22
US	49782972	RBVO3OHUBTQ0A	0140094385	539733955	Amusing Ourselves to Death: Public Discourse in the Age of Show Business	Books	2	24	49	N	N	Great first 80 pages, then WHAT THE HELL HAPPENED!	The first 80 odd pages of the book, where Postman establishes his proposition that the mode of communication shapes what is communicated, how, to whom and the entire perception of the world, is nothing short of brilliant, his expose on the written word, compared to oral, and then the introduction of the telegraph, all ring true and I would consider irrefutable. And then the second half of the book, is where he begins to attack TV, on the grounds that the medium is corrupted, corrupted at the core from its very nature and therefore all communication through it is warped, and since we're all couch spuds, where all warped, the world is gonna blow up and crash into the sun. Now, that leap of faith on the last part may sound, a bit far fetched, but that is literally how his arguement goes. He cites, solitary examples to set precident for entire arguements, one badly mediated debate in 1984, has sent all political debate on TV to hell from now until eternity. Postman attacks Sesame Street, PBS NewsHour, NOVA, I'm sorry but I could read books at 4 years of age because of Sesame Street. I find almost all of his premises flawed, and it seems to me, the man simply hates Television, which is all fine and good, but then he tries to disguise it in some messiah trip where he's gonna save us from the remote control. Here is the second part of the book in a nutshell - You cannot stop watching TV, even if you wanted you lack the willpower. You believe everything you see on TV, not just the content, but also the presentation. Because commercials are short, your attention span is short. News presented on TV is entertainment and does not affect your life in any conceivable way. You do not care. God hates you. You suck and now you must die! TV IS SATAN'S LOVE CHILD.<BR>I will not say that TV isn't full of crap, cause it is, but postman primarily speaks to the monopolization of TV by the Big Three...now it's the big 3000 (cable, sattelite) and talk radio has resurged big time since 1984,the internet abounds, and Books still sell millions of copies!<BR>Other pet peeves with the book, any book, any reading is good - harlequin romance therefore is more educational than frontline documentaries. Radio is completely ok, nevermind, shock jocks and howard stern. Before TV everyone was a literate genius and could converse on Plato at the drop of hat. I'm sorry Mr. Postman, there were dirty graffiti in the senate bathroom of Roman Empire, Plato was a gay man who stalked little boys from town to town, Churchhill was a drunk! TV he complains panders to the most common denominator to get the most viewers...I say it's the ultimate democracy, TV is simply the mass distribution of the baseness of human nature, but for godsakes, it's human nature and it's not the device's fault. Dirty books were around and are still around. <BR>Postman, is simply a frustrated man, who sounds like the granddad who complains about kids these days. His thesis sounds more like a rant, with very little to back it up.	2002-05-22
US	49782972	R2I1AVY9273LV7	0002110857	862110679	Black Death	Books	4	2	3	N	N	A Compelling Book	An excellent essay on the terrible and far reaching effects of the Black Plague on Medieval Europe. With staggering figures, it truly conveys the despondency that Dark Ages Europe fell into with the coming of this Plague from \\"God\\". Well researched, but not overwhelming with footnotes, and still candid enough to be an enjoyable read. I recommend it for those truly curious about what it must have been like to been in the path of the Black Death.	2002-03-01
US	49782972	RFTFVKSLIBQ7A	1589761022	870497727	Two Years Before the Mast: And Twenty-Four Years After	Books	5	73	76	N	N	Fantastic, You Must Read This!	I know many people cringe at the thought of reading a narrative that seems to greatly resemble Moby Dick, but I tell you this better than Moby Dick and easy makes it into my top ten books I have ever read! Occassionally the text bogs down in obscure sailing terms, but that is an exception and not a rule, otherwise, it is sheer poetry and lights the fire of wonder of exploration, and makes a sea voyage from almost 200 years ago spring to life. I give you my favorite short little passage, which explains it so much better.<br />\\"So quiet too, was the sea, and so steady the breeze, that if the sails had been sculptured marble they could not have been more motionless. Not a ripple upon the surface of the canvas; not even a quivering of the extreme edges of the sail, so perfectly were they distended by the breeze. I was so lost in the sight that I forgot the presence of the man who came out with me, until he said, 'How quietly they do their work!'\\"<br />Dana so perfectly described sea life you will be a part of the crew, you will feel his fear, his wonder, his joy and his awe.<br />You will not regret reading this, philosophy disguised as a travelogue, a must-read!	2002-02-20
US	49782972	R1ZMNCLZ3RGDI3	0446672289	231487583	The Death of Common Sense: How Law is Suffocating America	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Like fingers on a chalkboard	Like fingers on a chalkboard, is probably the best way to describe the feeling this book imparts, it is frustration, revulsion at the present state of government and not the skillful writer that evokes this feeling. There are literally dozens upon dozens of mind boggling examples of lunacy derived from blindly-written laws, but unfortunately no clear answers given. This is probably the best book I have ever read that explains in detail and with excellent citation the reason one should want a smaller, less active, and less powerful central federal government. It does not fall into the ranting trap of some conservative books, with much on vague generalism with scant unproved anecdotes, but rather is cool, calm, reasoned, and very well researched. However, the writer's keen intellect and sharp eye when turned from deconstructing the government of laws, and turned to the solution falls into a morass of generalisms and bad analogies. This book however is an excellent start and an excellent read for anyone that thinks to themselves, \\"WHAT THE HELL IS WRONG, TODAY!\\" The Death of Common Sense, answers alot of questions.	2002-02-11
US	49782972	R15ZJL3NNL126X	0460004093	454226878	3: Plutarch's Lives: Noble Greeks and Romans	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Good Greek, Bad Greek	I will start out by saying that this was not the orignal concept that the author Plutarch had in mind...Originally he had intended that a greek would be contrasted with a roman each known to have excelled in a similar field of endeavor. Plutarch is not an easy read, filled with dense syntax, and page long sentences, something I would more likely fault with the translation. However, it can be a very rewarding read. Plutarch chose those from the glory days of greece, who he thought best represented the ideal of heroism, wisdom, political skills, or even those he considered lucky. Plutarch's idea of the ideal man,would most likely differ from those of the modern reader, but they provide a glimpse into the unchangingness of man's complete inconsistencely. From the larger than life, mad arrogance of Alexander the great, the quiet non-conquering, communists before communists were cool Lycurgus, to the slightly naive, overly trusting Solon the law giver, or Alcibiades, the conqueror who was too good, or my favorite, the unsavory themosticles, who sold his services to greek and persian alike, or my least, Demosthenes, an excellent orator, who was all talk and never stood on principle. Plutarch does an excellent job of hitting all the high points of the golden era of greek history, but even more than that he tells the familiar story of those men who make the right decisions, who sieze the moment and who play their hand to its fullest and those who tragically fall short, or from overextending their reach fall from a high perch.<BR>I give this work a 4 instead of a 5, because the translation was staid, stolid and only relented occaisionally from its unneccessary pretentiousness, and that Plutarch actually wrote a history about Theseus, a myth, and then related every single permutation of that myth ad nauseum, so if you pick this up, avoid Theseus and enjoy!	2002-01-19
US	49782972	R1ZYXXM6J5Y7QI	0671216244	9508446	The Sultans	Books	5	34	36	N	N	Great Book	This book has been highly maligned by a previous reviewer. The reviewer seems to forget that every tragedy against the greek and the armenian detailed in the book by the turks, is true and documented, and in addition the author spends many pages skewering the false notion of the innocent greeks, and notes in detail every time the greeks wronged the turks. It is a shame that his judgement was so clouded and I suspect that the entire book was not read. <BR>What made this book so enjoyable is the writing, a history written like a spy novel. Noel Barber can run the gamut from very dry (very british humor) to pulse pounding murder mystery, to war room of analysis of battlefield tactics, insight into the desceptive world of diplomacy and yet still very reverently accounts greek, armenian and turkish massacres. This follows the Ottman empire from the height of its powers under Suleiman the Magnificient to the Turkey's final emanicipator Kamal Attaturk. Each sultan is given a mini-biography, filled with \\"Ripley's believe it or not\\"-like facts, designed to amaze and yet all are true, yet three sultans are studied in detail and to great effect, evoking, emotions from awe to pity, Suleiman the Magnificent, Abdul Hamid II and Kamal Attaturk. Napoleon, Lord Nelson, Churchill, Queen Elizabeth I, Henry VIII, Benjamin Disreali, Queen Victoria and Czar Nicolas all make cameo appearances. It reads more like a novel than a history and yet it is astoundingly accurate. Not only is it a history of the turks, because the Ottomans controlled so much of the muslim world for nearly 500 years, it is also a history of the muslim world and really endlessly fascinating, but what Noel Barber excellently does is tell the private and public lives and struggles of each of the sultans and how that related to the world at the time. This book could have been much more been haughtily named, \\"The Decline and Fall of the Ottoman Empire,\\" and it would have been equally accurate. But ultimately what makes this a great book is Barber's storytelling that makes the sultans charactures and yet fully realised humans at the same time.	2001-12-17
US	49782972	R3C1W6006W92Y0	0385040105	458162565	Alexander of MacEdon	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Approaches &quot;I, Claudius&quot; brilliance	Alexander of Macedon and Alexander the Great are one of the same. This biographical narrative traces his life and conquests from his youth to his death. The book is further divided into three more books, the first of which shines the most brightly. Lamb's expert prose and brilliant insights lay bare the forces and persons that shape the core of Alexander's being. These first 150 or so pages is the only book I have found to approach the genius of another biographical narrative, &quot;I, Claudius.&quot; Unfortunately as Alexander's conquests continue, his motivations become more and more obtuse until it seems he has no reasons at all. I understand Mr. Lamb wanted to rely strictly on historical references which primarily come from fellow officers of Alexander, with no writing of his own, so we cannot know for sure what drove his actions.<BR>Full of action, battles, murders, suicides, robberies, rape, pillages, political alliances and deception it makes for an incredible life and a great read. <br />Lamb dispells many of the myths of the Alexander legend, but the mystery of Alexander's later internal life remains unsolved.	2001-12-13
US	49782972	R3LOAGVNXE3G79	014044582X	673517480	The Last Days of Socrates: Euthyphro; The Apology; Crito; Phaedo (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	14	16	N	N	One of those desert isle books	I will not presume to analyze this, and leave that to the experts deep into the facets of philosophy. I will say that this book is excellently written by Plato, using many technically interesting devices, conversations, soliloquys and conversations inside conversations each one expertly serving its purpose. In this thin tome you can find the roots of the scientific method, modern philosophy, method of inquiry, arguements of law, political thought, fundamentals of christian thought and belief, basis of thought that will guide the inquiry into the nature of the universe itself, from physical position of the planets in the heavens to the theory of relativity. It is impossible to estimate the importance of this work on the history of human thought. Plato succeeds expertly in providing Socrates scorn of the shifting state of human reasons, his Socratic method, his personal life, his public life and his rare and enduring example of bravery. A truly amazing book, that really requires studying over simply reading.	2001-12-03
US	49782972	R8PTDL4VDETDA	0553212788	604725626	The Prince (Bantam Classics)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	It should be read and then re-read	This is an excellent book, do not let the small distance between the covers deceive you. Each phrase is concentrated sagity. You could take any one sentence from the book and have an eloquent quote, or any chapter and have a treatise on human nature. At a time in history when men praised the moral nature of humanity and the potentials of human greatness, when Utopia and Leviathan, More and Hobbes, came to the forefront with idealised states and imaginary lands, Niccolo Machiavelli wrote, \\"...I will not speak of imaginary kings and kingdoms, because we do not live in an imaginary world...It would be well advised to do good things and be good, if we lived in a good world, but instead the world is peopled with immoral men and it will be your death to not act likewise...\\"<BR>The preface states that this book, must be taken in light of the barbarous times it was written, but I rather think the opposite, that this piece is timeless, I see the modern political world vividly reflected in his work and accurately so, from religious regimes like the taliban, to gun control and more.<BR>You will not regret this short read, worth every word and so direct and yet eloquent and yes, you'll want to read it again.	2001-09-21
US	49782972	R3SFQIZBCBHUN3	0679640401	166313123	Islam: A Short History	Books	4	17	22	N	N	An Excellent Beginning and Ending	The first and last chapters of Karen Armstrong's work shines with a intuitive brilliance and a piercing analysis of the origins of Islam and the state and nature of Islam in modern days. Her precise and descriptive opening detailing the life of Muhammad and his sucessors, reveals the bare soul of Islam through the course of historical events. She well establishes the theme which dominates the remainder of the text and that speaks to the very heart of Islam, that unlike in the west, where the state and religion are ideally mutually exclusive, the very nature of the emergence of Islam belies that idea. Islam rose from the need to establish a peace and order in a barbarous land. A primary goal of Islam, as stated in the Qu'ran, is to have a state of harmony and equality on the earth, an ideal worth of Allah. The final chapter of Islam deals with the clash of western life with Islamism, and the resultant recoil and reemergence of fundamentalism. She brilliantly and thoughtfully draws the philosophical, political and societal origins for the modern day Islamic state, which gives a fuller view to the uneducated western reader.<BR>To add to this praise, a thorough, yet concise chronology of major events in the history of Islam is found just within the cover and following the text there is a collection of the major figures in Islam throughout history, giving dates and achievements and finally a brief glossary of common Arabic terms.<BR>However, and the prime reason this book recieves 4 stars instead of 5, is the midsection of the book. Armstrong reverts to a very dry reading of Islamic history, of assembled dates, blurred names, and ephemeral nation states, but more annoying is her seeming lack of cause and effect, merely having Islamic movements and nationstates spring to life without source and as mysteriously dissappear into the backlot of history. Also, in most cases she gently side steps terrorism, giving only mild castigations. She notes in one section that there hasnever been proof of the muslim population in India destroying Hindu temples, and yet a few pages later, the Moghul dynasty is destroying them left and right. The word assassin, originates from the Arabic word for early shiite terrorists. And Islam's history even that of its most high prophet Muhammad is incredibly bloody and yet she never attempts to truly tackle the root of it. However this is an excellent book to understand the core of the muslim identity and the best of mainstream Islam.	2001-09-18
US	49782972	R2CDWV346AZSBK	0380793245	602853146	Calendar: Humanity's Epic Struggle to Determine a True and Accurate Year	Books	2	4	6	N	N	It has a pretty cover...	There is much to recommend this book, in the course of telling the history of the creation of the modern day calendar, Mr. Duncan, really tells a history of humanity as a whole, his understanding of the workings of the universe, mathematics, nature and time itself. It also a story of bureaucracy smashing head on into science. If you get this book, the first 5 or 6 pages are full of positive reviews, however on closer inspection of the reviews, most are vague at best in reference to his work, or only mention events occuring in the first 200 pages. If I had read only the first two hundred pages, I too would have raved, but the history gets bogged down into a morass, as if Mr. Duncan was not about to throw out man hours of research and save the reader a dull last hundred pages or so. At once this book is vague and yet detailed, Duncan will launch into mathematica (known as computus in the book) and then only half explain it, leaving the reader a confused jumble of facts, most of the time not relevant to the final creation of the calendar. I picked up this book thinking it would be an easy week or two read, but it stretched into a monthlong assault on a small word, big spaced, few sentences per page book, which started out in essaic prose and finally became textbook dry by the end. Ultimately, I am forced to give this book a bad review because I could not enjoy reading it.<BR>And lastly but not leastly, in something, to me, which seems very strange at the least, the cover is an illuminated manuscript over which Mr. Duncan's title has been inserted and yet for some reason, it is as if the manufacturer only pasted his title over the original manuscript which can still be seen through the brown plate in middle, leaving me at least, more curious about the original wording instead of the overly long title of Mr. Duncan's over it.	2001-09-09
US	49782972	R1XJ4IHURIU7M9	0517340003	14731932	History's Timeline: 40,000 Year Chronology of Civilization	Books	4	7	8	N	N	An Excellent Quick Reference	I actually read this straight through, like a novel, but it in no way approaches a novel nor a narrative history, but it is a very good quick reference for historical events and personages. Of interest, are at the beginning of the major divisions in the history are individual timelines of each of the peopled continents with significant events, with references to Gupta dynasties in India or Mali empire in Africa, which are sadly enough almost ignored in the interior. If you want a quick biography of historical personage, most likely it's in there, if you want a specific time and date for an event you can find it, but you if a view to extend beyond the myopic preoccupation with white europe, especially England, you maybe in for some trouble. This reference throws breadcrumbs of the events transpiring outside of Europe's grasp, but then never follows through. However, it is a good reference for the standard Euro-centric and traditional historical accounts.	2001-09-09
US	49782972	R2426IBALN3IKB	0380793245	602853146	Calendar: Humanity's Epic Struggle to Determine a True and Accurate Year	Books	2	1	6	N	N	It has a pretty cover...	There is much to recommend this book, in the course of telling the history of the creation of the modern day calendar, Mr. Duncan, really tells a history of humanity as a whole, his understanding of the workings of the universe, mathematics, nature and time itself. It also a story of bureaucracy smashing head on into science. If you get this book, the first 5 or 6 pages are full of positive reviews, however on closer inspection of the reviews, most are vague at best in reference to his work, or only mention events occuring in the first 200 pages. If I had read only the first two hundred pages, I too would have raved, but the history gets bogged down into a morass, as if Mr. Duncan was not about to throw out man hours of research and save the reader a dull last hundred pages or so. At once this book is vague and yet detailed, Duncan will launch into mathematica (known as computus in the book) and then only half explain it, leaving the reader a confused jumble of facts, most of the time not relevant to the final creation of the calendar. I picked up this book thinking it would be an easy week or two read, but it stretched into a monthlong assault on a small word, big spaced, few sentences per page book, which started out in essaic prose and finally became textbook dry by the end. Ultimately, I am forced to give this book a bad review because I could not enjoy reading it.<BR>And lastly but not leastly, in something, to me, which seems very strange at the least, the cover is an illuminated manuscript over which Mr. Duncan's title has been inserted and yet for some reason, it is as if the manufacturer only pasted his title over the original manuscript which can still be seen through the brown plate in middle, leaving me at least, more curious about the original wording instead of the overly long title of Mr. Duncan's over it.	2001-09-09
US	49782972	R3CA7OX62TP72E	0897603842	142880899	Henry the Eight	Books	3	1	1	N	N	A blend of History and Novel	The complete title to this novel is, &quot;The Personal History of Henry the Eighth.&quot; It spans his entire life, from his birth to death, with a microscopic focus on himself and his immediate surroundings, with a few side trips to examine interesting individuals in his life. This book blurs the line between a novel and historical fact, sometimes producing fantastic results but other times, taking only the worst from each. The most intriguing and endearing quality, is the conversation for any person in the book is derived directly from their writings or letters, including quaint spellings or mispellings. Where the book fails is in the author's need to include every single event, important or not in excruciating details, often interjecting a litany of names, never before referenced nor explained and never seen nor heard from again. Entire paragraphs engulfed in only last names, or sometimes only official titles and obscure ranks. This piece could have been made, I think a great novel/historical study with the aide of a great editor, one not afraid to cut out chunks of passages littered with such minor clap-trap. Henry is portrayed as a massive egoist and an entirely evil man, so evil he might be confused for the bad guy in a bad action movie, but unlike the foresaid bad guy, Henry does not revel in his evil, but rather twists his rather flexible morals to make himself the good guy. This can be a very engaging read, but unfortunately, the problems that plague the text only occasionally in the beginning, dominate the final 200 pages. Really, if you were to pick this book up and read until the end of Anne of Boleyn, and then pick up a little in the Kathryn Howard section and then skip to the end, it would be a tremendously good read, but otherwise, prepare yourself to be bogged in some lengthy, detail laiden and seemingly unimportant passages.	2001-08-16
US	49782972	R2GNLBROISM7EO	0140440399	872483286	History of the Peloponnesian War	Books	5	4	5	N	N	First Anti-War, War History	This is an exhausting work, but exhausting in the best meaning of the word. Thucydides does what the few truly great historians can do, he brings to life not only the Pelopponesian war with battles and dates, but also with detailed descriptions of greek life at the time. He goes beyond mere recitation of facts and reaches that ethereal plane of seeing a moral pageant reflected in the terrors of the warfare. At the time, the pelopponesian war, is the first of its kind, where multiple city-states form allegiances and the two great powers, Athens and Sparta vie for supremacy. But beyond the political and military intrigues, Thucydides brings a human face and a tragic toll to this bloody war. Many cite the funeral oration of Pericles as a defining moment of the history, but the part that haunts my memory is the description of the treatment of the prisoners of war by Syracusans, it made my stomach knot at the idea of human cruelty being executed on such a massive scale so far back in our history. The greatest tragedy that Thucydides lays bare in this monumental work, is that this first great assembly of all the powers of men, exploiting political, logistic, military strengths, was only wrought for the destruction of the other.	2001-08-14
US	49782972	R4LJKT5JEYNA6	0880290242	188361232	The Annals of Imperial Rome	Books	2	29	40	N	N	I Hate to be the Odd One Out, But...	This may be a case where, I read another book, at least it seems like it. The average review for this is 4 1/2 stars, but I simply cannot rate this book that highly. I found, &quot;The Imperial Annals of Rome&quot; tortuously long and arduous to read (and I've packed away quite a few 1000+ page books). This might be more accurately summarized as, why I hate Tiberius. Tacitus spends most of the book going into excruciating detail about minor trials and Tiberius' personal faults (which he has many) and his public enemies (most of which are duly executed). When I compare this book to &quot;Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire&quot; or &quot;Conquest of Mexico&quot; by Prescott, or &quot; The Peloponnesian War&quot; by Thucydides, I find Tacitus' work sorely lacking. The greatest criticism of him I might make would be that he becomes so entrenched in minor details, the the work never becomes transcendant speaking not only of events of history but also of the nature of man and power. I know I might be quickly rebuked for this blaspheme, but I would recommend any number of works over this one. Sorry Tacitus.	2001-08-14
US	49782972	R21BD7LRFS6JN1	0140441751	543790104	A History of My Times (Penguin Classics)	Books	2	31	41	N	N	Like Going to Water from Wine	If you're reading this and you haven't read 'The Pelopponesian War\\" by Thucydides, stop it, drop it and go get that book. \\"A History of my Times,\\" more appropriately and originally titled, \\"Hellenica,\\" is the continuation and final conclusion to the \\"The Pelopponesian War\\", a history begun by Thucydides. You know a book is going to be bad, when in the introduction, the translator consistently says, \\"While not very good...\\" \\"Although seemingly flat...\\", \\"While his other works shine, this lacks...\\" If you have read \\"The Pelopponesian War,\\" you are obligated to read this one, as Thucydides leaves the war unfinished midsentence. While I understand that some of Xenophon's works such as his war journals and such are excellent, swashbuckling reads. His \\"Hellenica\\" lacks the grace and inquisitive fire that Thucydides work, \\"The Pelopponesian War\\" did. It is a flat, dull read, only rewarding because it tightly ties the loose ends in \\"The Pelopponesian War.\\" Also Xenophon is a staunch Spartan supporter and tends to ignore Athen's resurgence into power.	2001-08-14
US	49782972	R31KEXHGSOPUGI	0837172284	841593741	The Columbian Exchange: Biological and Cultural Consequences of 1492 (Contributions in American Studies #2)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A Good, Unique Biological Perspective on History	This would be an excellent book for the hardcore historian or the equally enthusiastic biologist, because it builds a neat and entertaining bridge between the two. Historically, Crosby does an excellent job in expounding upon the consequences of Europeon contact with the New World and accomplishes something quite unique. Most authors bog down in the details, but Crosby brings out the big picture, and neatly places the cause and effects of biological exchange between the once separated \\"worlds.\\" This book changed the way I look at discovery and its consequences. This study examines the far reaching effects from syphillis to potatoes and makes for an eye-opening and distinctly different read.<br />The only reason I give this 4 instead of 5 stars is I wanted more!	2001-08-14
US	49782972	R2FS2XDWU4K7QO	0590414488	265502821	Gods, Demigods, and Demons: An Encyclopedia of Greek Mythology (Point)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A shame it's out of print	This is an excellent reference of almost any Greek myth of importance, including the illiad and the odyssey. If you want an excellent reference, with better than dictionary definitions, each citation comes with a brief but detailed account of each \\"character's\\" significance, than this is the one for you.	2001-08-02
US	49782972	R294HU838OBMSK	0679725733	111847135	Claudius the God: And His Wife Messalina	Books	3	4	7	N	N	Oh, Claudius, how you have fallen	I still rate this novel 3 stars, but do so apprehensively. First off, do not read this unless you've read the first text, \\"I, Claudius,\\" an excellent book. If you've read the first Claudius book, this is a must read, since Graves' so abruptly ends the first novel, practically midsentence. The second novel, is actually more interesting historically, than in the personal trials witnessed in I, Claudius. Graves' interpretation of Claudius as a benign but naive person, begins to breakdown in the face of fact. Many historians and many of Claudius' contemporaries thought of him as a monster and an idiot. Although I do not agree that Claudius was an idiot, I do not however, find him the brilliant yet unworldly man we find in Graves' \\"Claudius the God.\\" By the end of the novel, I found so many contradictions, even in Graves' own text, that I found I could not agree with his conception of Claudius the Emperor. There are some brilliant passages, with Claudius' tortured existence with his first wife, and a conquest of Britain which is quite fun, but unfortunately the best passage, is how Graves' slyly eulogizes Claudius, with a satirical poem written by Seneca, a fawning Roman Senator.	2001-08-01
US	49782972	R11I3N97KTARH7	1853262420	627065254	The Iliad (Wordsworth Classics)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	The First if not the Best Novel	I went into the Illiad, reading it because I thought that I was expected to. The Illiad is the sort of reading that is expected of a well rounded and enlightened individual. However, instead of a dusty tome, I found a vibrant, lively book, full of rage and sorrow, brimming historical accounts laced with godly intervention. The most amazing aspect, apart from the grim battle scenes (and they are unflinchingly gory), is the depth to which Homer explores each of the major characters. There are no bad guys or good guys, each man portrayed is multi-faceted with dark and light qualities. Achilles' the supposed hero is vain, vengeful and spiteful, the villian Hector is seen a reluctant defender who mourns his wife and child even before his death. And Paris the center of it all, a pathetic selfish man, who possesses an unearthly charisma. This novel is amazing and astounding in that it not only tells a great story, but that it asks the eternal questions of mankind, about fate, bravery and a life well lived. The Illiad is the starting point of the Odyssey and the Aeneid both classics of epic poetry and the Illiad is also ripe with Greek Mythology. I cannot more highly recommend a book than this one.	2001-08-01
US	49782972	R2P7NY4094FPRQ	0140437649	620361333	The History of the Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	26	28	N	N	Astounding	There are few other words which better describe Gibbon's sprawling masterpiece, starting in the Augustan Age of the Early Empire and Climaxing nearly 1400 years later with a vivid description of the capture of Constantinople by the Turks, Gibbon's work will most likely never be eclipsed. Recent historians chide Gibbon for his poetic style and \\"non-objective\\" view point, but I rather say that those are the same reasons that make his definitive work stand above all others. Gibbon's provides not only a richly detailed history, full of intrigues and good story telling, by also relates the attitudes in the governing and the governed at each period of time, telling as much a tale of history as one of declining values and a slide from the pinnacle of rome power to a morass of decadence and selfishness that tears the empire apart in the years to come. Gibbon does not shy from calling wrong wrong and right right, much in the tradition of greek moralist historians that came before him, and it his strong viewpoint and this undercurrent of the loss of the roman and moral self that allows him to so sucessfully tie this epic together. This is a long book, so don't go into it lightly, but it is certainly rewarding. I thoroughly enjoyed this so much, that I plan to reread it again in the future, which for me is an astounding occurence. I also realise I am not reading the original, as much of Gibbon's work on the later Empire is marred by inaccuracies, but still at nearly a thousand pages, it is still a dense tome. In all my readings, I have never come across so impressive a text as this one, and don't believe I shall again.	2001-08-01
US	49782972	R1MU9Y27XL7MRW	067972477X	111847135	I, Claudius From the Autobiography of Tiberius Claudius Born 10 B.C. Murdered and Deified A.D. 54 (Vintage International)	Books	5	272	282	N	N	I, Claudius - this book changed how I read forever	Instead of going into gory detail about the particulars of this text, as I'm sure you've read a few summaries already, I will merely say that this book changed my reading habits forever. I read this book, simply out of curiousity, because the title was familiar and from the first page of Graves' novel I was gripped. Written in an excellent, half-comic, half-tragic style, the novel flows, and keeps you reading until it abruptly (and I'd say quite cruelly ends). The moment which will stick in my mind forever is when I first read the scene when Claudius is called into the chamber of Caligula. Caligula mad intends to kill Claudius, but Claudius quickly picks up on the emperor's madness...and well read the book. This book changed it all for me, the next book I read was Tacitus, Annals of Imperial Rome, then The Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire..and so on. This book lit a passionate flame of curiousity about Roman History and then eventually world history, ever since reading this book 3 years ago, I have read only ancient classics, greek, roman and world histories, at the pace of at least one a month. For that reason alone I must rate this book highly and maybe it will light that curiousity in you too.	2001-08-01
US	49782972	R2KS6ZOFBRWNP0	0815410042	493048683	History of the Conquest of Mexico & History of the Conquest of Peru	Books	5	9	13	N	N	The Conquest of Mexico	My review concerns only the first part of the book, \\"The Conquest of Mexico.\\" What a treat, to read this after reading Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire, I think that only this book, could've made my transition from the ethereal realm of great books to the earthly realm of good books. Prescott's Conquest of Mexico is a long read, but a rewarding one. It is an excellent narrative history, where depth and pathos are brought to Cortez, his men, Montezuma and the many more that are an intrigal part of this history. A recount of a band of a few hundred Spainards, commanded by a man, Cortez, who is alternatively driven by proselytizing the indians of the central mexico and his lust for gold. Slowly and in a beautiful, novel-esque way, Prescott, reveals the heart of Cortez and the 16th century conquistadors, the clash of cultures and the terrible outcomes the result. Neither are the Indians ignored, and much time (especially for a 19th century author) is spent on the rituals, customs, habits and political and religious life of the Natives. A truly dramatic tale with a tragic ending, all told with the poetic elegance of Prescott, it's a great read.	2001-08-01
US	49782972	R1N0X2PY3GT8S2	1853264733	392377088	The Travels of Marco Polo (Wordsworth Classics of World Literature)	Books	3	16	22	N	N	Borders between Travelogue and Fantasy	This is a hard review to write, I wish I had an option to give this 3 1/2 stars, but I can't quite give 4 and I can't quite stomach 3. This book is great if you wish to glean facts about 13th century Europeon male's point of view of the middle and Far east. There are some tales that are completely stupendous, and cannot be believed at all and then there are some great, anecdotes, a favorite of mine is one were Marco challenges the ability of Kublai Khan's empire to function using a paper monetary system, at which Polo is completely incredulous, a monetary system, everyone in the world uses today. There are some excellent recounts of native islands, unspoiled back lands and an excellent feeling for the travels of a trader that took that original silk route over 600 years ago. It's an easy read though, short chapters, and fanciful tales make it flow fast, so even if the fantastic tales annoy your need for historic fact, it's probably worth the few days this takes to thumb through.	2001-08-01
US	49782972	R1XO1OD63WQZU6	0140126252	318260690	Roman Britain (Hist of England, Penguin)	Books	2	4	5	N	N	There may be a reason this is out of print	I.A. Richmond, though a meticulous historian, seemed to me to be trying his best to drain every drop of life out of this account of Roman Britain and he fairly much succeeded. I am used to reading historical narratives or at the least, reading historical accounts, where at least events are put into chronological order. Instead, the author, reels out lines of fact with very little linear connections at all. However, I will say that unknowingly to myself, I did find I had a wealth of facts about Roman Britain floating around in my head, but with no connections to anything. Possibly the most frustrating thing of all, is that Richmond never gives a reason for Roman's leaving Britain, or even a definitive period of time, when the Empire's grasp receeded, simply talking about Roman influence up to the 5th A.D. and then giving no reason, no explanation nor any following life after Roman recession.	2001-08-01
US	49782972	R3MA28JMDQORKX	0553259202	884164220	Heroes, Gods and Monsters of the Greek Myths	Books	5	21	24	N	N	An Absolutely Excellent Book	Evslin does an oustanding job telling the most famous of the greek myths and does it with his hands tied or does he? Evslin wrote this book, I think, intending it for a young audience, and so does not delve into the prose that others have when attacking these greek myths. Yet with simple language and direct verse, he quite excellently brings out a depth in the characters and a second meaning in stories which have rung hollow or been lost by other, supposedly great poets. Even if you don't fancy yourself a myth lover, this is an excellent read and easy, yet thoroughly satisfying.	2001-08-01
US	49782972	R2H3Z756MKV1V8	0451527933	272121911	The Metamorphoses (Signet Classics)	Books	3	16	25	N	N	The Translation Makes the Difference	If I got one thing from reading this book, was that for the first time ever I realised how much difference a translation makes. I feel this is more a review of the translation rather than Ovid's work. This book, a linking of all the greek and roman myths of importance, is probably great if you're a mytho-phile, it is a great reference, also wonderful is Ovid's use of storytelling, and his under running current of metamorphosis that he uses to transfer from one tale to another. In some passages Ovid shines, the creation, the tales of the greek scholar (a precursor to militant vegans) are prime examples. When Ovid is good, he's brilliant, but when he's bad, it can be painful reading...or so I thought, now I'm not so sure. I was reading Gregory's translation, which I didn't know at the time is a bit dumbed down...I picked up another version (I don't remember the translator) just to compare to the one I had been reading. The same passages which had seemed deadly dull before, sprung to life, with beautiful eloquent verse. Gregory's translation for some reason seemed to be shooting for the lowest common denominator. And the difference between the two was amazing, it was like comparing a real book to the cliff notes. The one thing that I did enjoy about Horace's version was his subdivision of books, with the title of the myth being told, which in a continuous narrative can be hard to spot. However, these \\"titles\\" probably ultimately, destroy the gradual metamorphoses from one myth to the next, which I have to admit are very cleverly done. So I say, don't discount Ovid completely, but maybe just this translation.	2001-08-01
US	49782972	R265WS93YK6CRB	1882577655	16298732	Climate of Fear: Why We Shouldn't Worry about Global Warming	Books	5	38	54	N	N	As a Botanist, I'm disturbed	I must first apologize for not actually having read the book in question, but I must disagree with the reviewer from stanford. He or she states that rises in co2 concentrations will change internal concentrations of c:n:p ratios in plants, that's simply not true. algae maintain a ratio of 106:50:1 (the redfield ratio) in the ocean that has a 800:50:1 ratio...in all the studies with increased co2 content, no plants have increased c:n:p ratios. For a c:n:p ratio to be effected, there must be a change of n or p contents, neither of which are absorbed from the atmosphere for plant use (n only marginally). Of course plants will benefit from increased co2, co2 is the source of sugars, and the metabolism will be sped up, but that will not decrease a plant's lifecycle, a maximal photosynthetic level is controlled ultimately but rubisco, a protein, and photosynthetic rates cannot exceed that level, a plant's life cycle is not analogous to a candle, which will burn brighter and therefore shorter. if anything the maximal photosynthetic rate, a result of additional co2 will cause delayed blooming and a prolonged existence. As for your other statements, I cannot agree or disagree with them as i do not have enough information, but I cannot stand by and watch irresponsible or uninformed reporting of science. Physiologically what you described as a plant's reaction to increased co2 has never been validated in any tests in any journals and our knowledge of plant physiology simply does not allow your scenario to take place.	2001-03-16
