US	49782890	R2P6VI6E3P0SXI	0814604323	279480503	Faith of the Early Fathers, Vol. 1	Books	5	69	71	N	N	Awesome!!	For those with an interest in the history of the earliest Christians, this books is an awesome and enlighting read.  It starts with the Didache, a writing that is contemporary to the New Testament and covers the first four hundred years of Christianity.  If you want to know what to believe, then a logical person to ask (if you could) would be the people who were contemporaries of the apostles or who came immediately after.  Well, we can't ask, but we can read what they wrote, which is the next best thing. <br /> <br />Jurgen's The Faith of the Early Fathers is a particularly useful collection of those writings.  It is arranged first by authors, which is nice for those who want to study the writings of one early father at a time.  Better, though, for the rest of us busy people is the doctrinal index.  Each issue of doctrine (from the Bible, to the papacy, to Mary, etc.) has a section, and within that section it is broken down into specific points of doctrine, then each of the points has a paragraph number(s) showing where you can read what these early fathers wrote about that issue.  So, when you need to, you can lay your hands on what (for examply) St. Justin Martyr wrote about the Eucharist in about one minute flat, without having to spend hours reading and searching his writings.   <br /> <br />The Faith of the Early Fathers is the easiest to use compendium of early Christian writings I have ever seen.  Anyone who gets this book is going to be just thrilled with what they can quickly and painlessly learn with this reference in their hands.	2004-12-22
US	49782890	R37DL9VN7U3PHO	192883227X	748316388	Search and Rescue: How to Bring Your Family and Friends Into or Back Into the Catholic Church	Books	5	58	60	N	N	The How-To of Evangelizing, Not a Theology	Search and Rescue is a practical, hands-on style, guide to evangelizing.  Patrick Madrid takes the reader into the specific steps that they need in learning how to DO evangelization.  He deals with using opportunities to talk to strangers, friends, family, door-to-door evangelists, and especially the bitter ex-Catholic person that most will deal with eventually.  Madrid shows you that in order to evangelize you needn't be a theological expert, but that you MUST have a proper mindset towards evangelization and the people that you are trying to evangelize. He warns that our pride and arrogance can get in the way of the best laid arguements.  In fact, there are entire chapters of this book dedicated to: making sure that we are doing it for God and not for glory, not treating people like scalps to be won for the faith, making sure that we ARE sincerely friendly and loving to people (and not just trying to come across that way), and recognizing that the Holy Spirit does the true converting and that we are but tools of that conversion.<br /><br />Useful ideas that will be especially gleaned by the reader of this book: making sure that you talk more to God about the person you are trying to convert than you talk to the person about God, be constantly aware of the tendancy to pride and the subsequent need for consist visits to the sacrament of confession, and being reasonably prepared to deal with common arguements.<br /><br />Search and Rescue is NOT an apologetic or theological work.  It is a how-to manual for APPLYING apologetic and thoelogical studies. The author gives lots of great references for where to find good study guides for the faith and apologetics, including a strong emphasis on person daily prayer and scripture reading.<br /><br />This is an awesome work that will teach people how to evangelize those around us in the world, as well as how to deal with the painful situation of a close friend or family member who leaves the Church over 'issues' or because of a conversion to protestantism.  Those looking to become serious about evangelizing people in the world, or those confused about what to do about the family member being wooed by charismatic protestant church members NEED this book.use of a conversion to protestantism.  Those looking to become serious about evangelizing people in the world, or those confused about what to do about the family member being wooed by charismatic protestant church members NEED this book.	2004-12-22
US	49782890	R2MF6ARLNHIAGF	0375727345	498826779	House of Sand and Fog (Oprah's Book Club)  (Vintage Contemporaries)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Like a Traffic Accident	House of Sand and Fog is like a traffic accident, you know you should look away, but somehow you just can't.  One the one side, you have Kathy, an alcohol and drug addicted woman whose just lost her husband and is scraping by as a housecleaner.  On the other side, you have an Iranian immigrant family, headed by former-General Behraini, trying to make money and reestablish themselves in the United States, after losing their aristocratic position in Iran with the overthrow of the government.<br />When Kathy's home is taken as a result of a county tax mistake, and then sold at auction to Behraini, a battle of the wills ensues.  What these two opposing forces do to each other, and themselves, is what all great tradgedy is made of.  Ultimately, there are no clear villians, and certainly no clear heros.<br />The author's style of writing is beautiful and almost lyric.  He sets scenes and draws emotions to a razor-sharp edge.  While some plots points are a bit far-fetched, the reader becomes more than willing to forgive them and enter the land of make-believe, because they are enjoying the author's prose so greatly.<br />I highly recommend House of Sand and Fog to the reader who enjoys tradgedy, examinations of the human psyche, or emotional (if not happy) reads.	2004-06-11
US	49782890	R23VG6WQHDNZLC	0142004235	974134151	East of Eden, John Steinbeck Centennial Edition	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Beautiful	East of Eden is a beautiful work that is multi-thematic, complex, and yet very personal.  In the saga of the Trask and Hamilton families, Steinbeck weaves a story that explores, above all, people. Siblings, parents, births, deaths, sorrows, joys, truths, lies, and the perceptions in between, this novel has it all.  Headed by Sam Hamilton, the Hamilton family is trying their best to live with dignity on the poorest land in their area.  They are the kind of people who are so decent and joyful in each other that it's hard to remember that they are struggling to get by.  Adam Trask, emerging from what we would now call a dysfunctional family, buys up the best land in the area with money that he inherited, somewhat mysteriously, from his father.  While he wants desperately to make his new bride happy and be the father/patriarch he never had, Adam has the misfortune to have picked a wife that is not interested in settling down and becoming a mother.  Immediately after the birth of her twins, Adam's wife disappears, turning up later as the madame of a whorehouse reputed for \\"providing the sort of services that shouldn't be available\\".   <br />The story is large, somewhat complex, but never tedious.  Unlike most novels of this length (600 pages), there is never one place where the story becomes bogged down.  Steinbeck does such a good job with his beautiful prose, true characters, and honest emotion, that the reader floats through the 600 pages effortlessly.  I loved this novel and have every intention of reading every other piece of Steinbeck I can get my hands on.	2004-06-10
US	49782890	R3ORN1SDHNO9FN	1890626317	991819171	Hating Whitey and Other Progressive Causes	Books	3	4	10	N	N	Good discussion on race issues, weak in other areas	Hating Whitey is arevealing, personal, and (in the case of bell hooks' essay 'A Killing Rage') even sometimes frightening discussion of the problems we face in race relations.  David Horowitz uses common sense, fact, and personal experience to show what we've done right to improve race relations, who we should and should not emulate in this area, and what we are doing terribly, terribly wrong.  He makes the case that equal rights for all races has nothing to do with one race liking another, but rather is supposed to deal in equality under the law.  More importantly, he shows that when the races are not equal under the law (as in the case of affirmative action, hate crimes laws, and other racial preferences laws) that it is actually a barrier between the races, causing resentment on the one side, and a victimized mentality on the other.  He also argues that these racial preference laws are not even good for the races that they are designed to help.  These are all important discussions and worth reading.  Whether you end up agreeing with Horowitz or not, it will get you thinking.<br />Where in the book Horowitz relies primarily on his personal experiences, especially as relates to his time with the Black Panthers (a very scary organization by Horowitz's account), it is interesting information, though likely delt with better and more thoroughly in his first book, the autobiographical &quot;Radical Son&quot;.<br />While I felt there was a lot positive and important in this book, I rated it only three stars, because most of the material that he covers in the second half of the book (the 'other progressive causes'), is covered in too slim a space to be very meaningful.  While there is nothing wrong with his material, there are plenty of other books that cover those topics in much more detail.  I think his space might have been better used to expound upon the race issues that are the title feature.  Doubtless there is more that he could have said.	2004-06-10
US	49782890	R11YMQFS7QWYON	0743222253	376327637	Living History	Books	3	7	15	N	N	Hillary Clinton	I'll begin this review with the admission that I do not agree with most of Hillary Clinton's politics.  I didn't before I read the book, and I don't now.  But that's okay.  I wasn't looking for a book that justified her politics, though I would certainly be fascinated to read one should she choose to write it.<br />Rather, I was looking to read this book for the same reason that I read all autobiographies - because I was curious about her thinking and trying to learn what makes her tick.  While most of this book gives nothing away beyond some dry facts and a few nice side stories (like how she had to deal with her teenage daughter wearing a mini-skirt to a major event, something that all mothers of teenage daughters can relate to), there is an underlying theme about her role as first lady that seems to point to her thinking.  <br />By Hillary's own admission, she struggled with this role, and sought to expand and redefine it, or as another reviewer wrote, she sought to create a job where previously none had existed.  And perhaps that is what average Americans had against Hillary.  It wasn't about, as Hillary asserted, her role as a woman in power.  It was about the fact that *she* had not been elected, her husband had.  She tried to create a position of power for herself that was not rightfully hers.  If she wanted that position, she should have run for president herself.  While she blames the healthcare fiasco on republicans and 'an American public not willing to accept a woman in such a powerful position', she doesn't take a moment to reflect on whether or not she was appropriately in that position.  After all, in no other corporation could a husband hand his wife such a major office and hope to keep his job himself.  It's called nepotism and corporate America has long since held that it's not good policy.  As an avowed feminist, Hillary never seems to take a moment to reflect on the thought that other feminists might not appreciate the idea being put out that they need their husbands to give them good jobs.  This is what makes the book worth reading to those who are curious about what makes her tick.  Having the opportunity to hear her discuss this in her own words is worth the time.<br />There are, of course, some other things that point to how she may think and feel.  Her constant verbage against a 'vast right-wing conspiracy' and her assertion that she was owed some sort of real job as First Lady, are interesting.  They are interesting because it is difficult to believe that someone with Mrs. Clinton's education could really believe in something as hokey as a 'vast right-wing conspiracy', or that she honestly thought that she was owed power as First Lady.  Is this political grand standing?  Is it self-deceit?  Or does she really believe this?  It is almost impossible to guess, but it's very interesting that her thinking allows her to claim it, upon whatever grounds.<br />Whether you are conservative or liberal or somewhere in between, it is worth the time to read this book by and about such an undeniably controversial figure.  You may or may not change your ideas about her, but you will understand her thinking a little better, and that's worth something.	2004-06-01
US	49782890	R2FOIN5LK0Q6Y1	0761120149	684134465	How to Grill: The Complete Illustrated Book of Barbecue Techniques, A Barbecue Bible! Cookbook	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Awesome Book!	How to Grill is a comprehensive guide to grilling for newbies that want to become pros.  The book begins with a very thorough study of every conceivable barbeque technique, every piece of equipment, and many how-to's, from choosing the grill (or grills!) that are right for you to lighting charcoal without blowing something up.  Each of these discussions have beautiful, glossy, detailed pictures included.  If you decide to buy a fish grilling basket after reading this book, you will know exactly what it looks like when you go to the store.  No more guessing from bad illustrations!  This alone is worth the purchase price of this book.<br />Of course, this is also a large recipe book.  And the recipes are absolutely delicious!  I suggest that any barbequer start with the Beer Can Chicken recipe and work from there.  The recipe is so simple, but soooo good.  All recipes are well illustrated, with step-by-step instructions.  Again, nice glossy photos, no bad illustrations.  <br />Some have complained that the information about how to do things like soaking wood chips and lighting the grill are repeated unnecessarily with each recipe.  I think these repetitions actually make the book great at what it's for, the beginner.  A beginner barbequer doesn't want to have to flip back and forth through the book to remember the steps.  It's all laid out together.  More advanced barbequers, which anyone who buys this book will quickly become, would do well to get another book of Raichlen's: &quot;BBQ USA&quot;, with still great instructions, though less pictures, and 425 recipes to keep you eating for many weekends to come.	2004-06-01
US	49782890	R2DOWQCNHYGRZD	0806523964	536783568	Pierce Brosnan	Books	1	23	23	N	N	Boring	I've been a fan of Pierce Brosnan since I was eleven years old and watched him twice a day in Remmington Steele, on the USA network sindication.  When I spotted this biography in the library, I picked it up and knew it would be interesting reading about one of my favorite actors.  I was wrong.  This book has got to be one of the most stone boring biographies I have ever read, about anyone.  Most of the chapters are a few short pages and tend to snap off facts about Brosnan in a dossiere-type fashion.  And the author tends to wander off into writing a full page or two, or three, about other people besides Brosnan (by other people, I mean just about everyone he's ever lived or worked with).  These, too, are boring little summaries of fact.  It seems unlikely that Brosnan cooperated with the book, as there are only a few short quotes from him, which seem to be taken from other interviews he's given.  The author just fails to flesh out a person for his readers.  Rather, the reader is offered a book-long resume that will tell them nothing they didn't already know if they are Brosnan fans.  I suggest readers skip this book and hope for an autobiography, or at least one that the actor will be cooperating with.	2004-06-01
US	49782890	R3MSRZB0D52M4N	0761131337	42718271	BBQ USA: 425 Fiery Recipes from All Across America (Barbecue! Bible Cookbooks)	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Great Barbeque Guide and Regional Recipe Book	BBQ USA is an awesome guide to barbeque throughout the United States (and even a few places outside of the US).  This book highlights what is similiar and what is different about how people barbeque in different regions.  Organized by food type (ex. beef, poultry, fish, etc) the guide gives various examples of how a food would be handled in different areas.  Ribs may be, for example, done with: dry rubs, marinades, smoked, rotisserie, boiled, or jerked, just depending on where you go.  This by-food-type organization is a boon to the barbequer who may catch a good deal on a particular food at the store, but isn't sure what they want to do with it.<br />The discussions of regional barbeque is fascinating.  With some pictures thrown in of restaurants and barbeque stops around the country, this is not just a recipe book, but a tour of the US through a different lense.  The fact that there are a whopping 425 recipes for barbeque from around the country will keep pit-masters busy for many weekends to come.  With this book in hand, there will never again be reason for any ambitious barbequer's family to complain of food boredom!<br />As a recipe book, this one is great.  There is variety for every palate, great instructions, and helpful tips.  The only thing that some may not like is that there are only a few pictures of the foods in the recipes.  Given the size of this tome, with it's 425 recipes, this is understandable.  For the new barbequer who needs pictures, or to those that just prefer them, a better book might be Steven Raichlens' &quot;How to Grill&quot;, which gives awesome instructions in equipment, technique, and beautiful glossy photos on every page.	2004-06-01
US	49782890	RDL5DAAEMFU3R	0446607738	702895641	Toyer	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Different	Written from several points of view, Toyer is a serial murder mystery unlike most others, especially in the fact that the murderer doesn't kill his victims.  Rather this person, which a newspaper reporter dubs 'Toyer&quot; (because he toys with his victims and the police) permanently disables his victims by cutting off their spinal cord from their brain, effectively turning them into living vegetables.<br />Maude Garance is the doctor who treats Toyer's victims.  The knowledge of what Toyer has done to his victim's sits heavily upon the shoulders of Dr. Garance, who calls the victims 'little flowers' and thinks of the photos taken by the victim's families as 'still life portraits'.  She finds herself enraged at the havoc that Toyer causes for the victims and their families, who have lost a member, who they can't even grieve for because they are still alive.<br />This, of course, sets up a conflict between Dr. Garance and Toyer, and it is this conflict which becomes the central story to this novel.  There are other subplots and minor stories, which I will allow the reader the fun of discovering.<br />There are some plot holes in this novel, and a few character motiviations which I find frankly unbelievable under most any circumstance.  That being said, McKay writes his characters so well, with such depth and nuance, that the reader feels willing to suspend disbelief and trust the author to bring it all off in the end.  Here the author brings us imperfect, and not even entirely likable, sympathetic characters, as well as a bad guy that you can't quite hate altogether.  These character formulations, along with some plain old fashioned good prose writing, bring Toyer together as an imperfect, but still very good novel.<br />Readers who enjoy James Patterson, and are looking for something slightly similiar with better prose, will likely enjoy this novel, as will readers who enjoy novels that have a dark feel almost all the way through.	2004-05-22
US	49782890	R34X04YKZYJ9C6	0451527623	439617492	The Scarlet Pimpernel (Signet Classics)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Fun, Exciting, Thoughtful, and Romantic	The Scarlet Pimpernel is set during the French Reign of Terror, when aristocrats and royalists were being beheaded in the name of &quot;liberty, freedom, and brotherhood&quot;.  The author creates The League of the Scarlet Pimpernel, a band of Englishmen committed to helping aristocrats escape to England, and keep their heads.  The head of this band of Englishmen is, of course, called by the code name The Scarlet Pimpernel.  His identity is secret to all, even those he helps escape.  <br />This sets the scene for a &quot;Three Musketeers&quot; style swashbuckling adventure story.  It is fun and exciting, full of suspense that lasts until the very end.  There is a nice love story woven quite naturally into the fabric of the plot, that manages to add to the plot without being syrupy.  The story also includes some thoughtful moments that excute simply without bogging down the story in the least.  Overall, a very enjoyable novel.  It treads lightly on the moral/ethical issues surrounding the French Revolution, and deals mostly with an adventuresome story.  Those looking for a more 'serious' fictional work of the French Revolution may prefer A Tale of Two Cities by Charles Dickens.	2004-05-18
US	49782890	R3VVZCM2QBP9HK	0764227173	366791900	The Covenant (Abram's Daughters)	Books	4	71	76	N	N	Decent Beginning to a Series	The Covenant is my first Beverly Lewis novel, and I have to say that I enjoyed it immensely.  Set in the Lancaster County, PA &quot;Dutch Country&quot; area, the novel is the first in a series about four Amish sisters - Abram's Daughter's.  <br />The plot focuses mostly on the two eldest daughters, Sadie and Leah.  Sadie is a typical innocent young girl, intrigued with the wordly ways that she has been sheltered from, and running wild during her rumsprunger (the time when Amish teens get to do what they want before they commit themselves to an Amish/Anabaptist way of life).  Leah, younger than Sadie, has not yet come to the age of rumsprunger, but is much more staid of temperment, and worried terribly over Sadie's running around.  While dealing with these worries, Leah is also dealing with the pressure that her father is putting on her to marry Gideon and join the two families farms, when she comes of age.  Leah, of course, is in love with someone else.<br />Beverly Lewis is an immensely sweet and realistic writer.  She manages to portray Lancaster County in an attractive, but thankfully not syrupy, manner.  Her characters are real people who have passions and worries, but still have floors to sweep and cows to milk.  Like us, they must struggle to function *with* their passions and problems, rather than calling a time-out on their lives for a plotline.  And like real people, these characters do not go into euphoric swoons, nor have nervous breakdowns.  Instead, they laugh, cry, get mad, forgive, love, and pick up the pieces.   <br />The Covenant is steadily paced, but not at all fast.  It feels like a leisurely walk down the beach with a good friend.  The story provides for satisfying moments, but as the beginning of the series, does not wrap things up in a neat package.  Instead, this is a true series, rather than a trilogy, and the next book will pick up where this one leaves off.<br />I very much enjoyed The Covenant and look forward to reading the next book inthe series, as well as all reading other of Lewis' books.  This book will be highly enjoyed by most women who have had children, as doubtless was it's targeted audience.  I would also recommend that mothers consider giving a copy to their teenage daughters.  It would provide an nice connection for the daughters to see what it is that mothers truly worry about, and possibly provide some meat for interesting discussions.	2004-05-12
US	49782890	R3RQYJKJ2BDNC	1400049520	957571830	Slander: Liberal Lies About the American Right	Books	5	8	24	N	N	Funny. Academic. Well Referenced.	Ann Coulter's blockbuster hit Slander is a hysterically funny look at how the American democrat/left-wing politicians and their media cohorts use every imaginable trick in the book to avoid engaging conservatives on actual issues, and especially how they conspire to keep the truth about conservatives from ever coming to light.  She covers everything: how democrats oppose tax cuts while they sneeringly claim to enjoy paying taxes (because what do the ultra-rich care about how much the working class have to pay?), the fact that Americans vote with their dollars and that their dollars clearly show a preference for conservative points of view, the fact that democrats like Hillary Clinton want to censore the internet to keep people from &quot;choosing to view only sites that contain their preferred point of view&quot;, how liberals oppose conservative ideas until they work (then lyingly adopt them as their own), how the left constantly maligns a religious right that doesn't exist (less than 15% of voters consider themselves Christian and conservative), and how the left avoids having to engage on issues by accusing conservatives of being either stupid, racist, hate-filled, or (better yet) some combination thereof.  There is a lot more material covered in this book, far too much to list it all here.  Suffice it to say that just about every imaginable darling of the left is held up and examined in the light of day.<br />Coulter is an intelligent, funny, wry, author.  In Slander she offers basically nothing in the way of conclusions drawn, plans for change, or a battle-cry to those who would take it up.  Some may find this troubling and inconclusive.  I find it refreshing that she simply offers the facts of the matter (the book is highly referenced) and allows the reader to take those facts where they will.  <br />Some reviewers seem to have been troubled with Coulter's writing style, saying that she is difficult and ungrammatic.  I don't really understand that position, asI found her style to be quite sophisticated and academic.  However, I will say that Coulter has an impressive command of the English language, which includes complex sentences and a vocabulary that will have the reader digging out their dictionary from time to time.  I would recommend that everyone who can, should read this book.  It may enlighten the reader to a point of view, but even failing that, the reader will be unable to escape without enjoying Coulter's wonderful sense of humor.  That alone is worth the purchase price.	2004-05-10
US	49782890	R3ONWFL4ZYX2NA	0064400557	121564266	Charlotte's Web (Trophy Newbery)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Wonderful Children's Literature	Charlotte's Web is perhaps the best piece of children's literature that I have read to date.  I won't rehash the plot here, as many reviewers have done that already (and most of us know it, anyway). Instead, I will say that Charlotte's Web has what most children's books lack now, and that is a true literary quality.  Most of what is marketed to children is dumbed-down, non-thematic, twaddle.  Charlotte's Web avoid's all of those pitfalls.  Instead, the prose is lyrical in it's simplicity.  It has strong themes that deal with death in the real world, and growing up and beyond childish things.  None of the characters are 'bad', but rather it is fate that is fought, the fate of a pig destined for Christmas dinner.<br />For parents who are seeking something meaningful in their child's literature, and especially for parents who are looking to accustom their children to good, wholesome literature (instead of twaddle), Charlotte's Web will fit the bill perfectly.  Homeschooling parents, and all who enjoy expanding their children's vocabularies, will also appreciate the many words that are used and defined throughout the story.<br />And, lest I forget the most important issue of a review, my five year old boy LOVED this book.  He's still talking about it some time after we finished reading it.  Parents concerned about the death of Charlotte should give some thought to whether or not their child is ready to have that included in the story.  My five year old wasn't particularly disturbed by it.  My feeling is that most wouldn't be, however, very sensitive children might do better to wait a year or two more.	2004-05-10
US	49782890	R1IVSR6SK18X41	0842329129	46316172	Left Behind: A Novel of the Earth's Last Days (Left Behind No. 1)	Books	1	70	83	N	N	Soooo bad	I won't include a synopsis of the plot line in this review.  For one thing, plenty of other reviewers have already done that.  For another, in all honesty, I only read half the book.  I couldn't take any more than that.  The writing in this book is sooooo bad, I am stunned that any publisher would actually put their name on it.  It is filled with thousands upon thousands of simplistic sentences that seem to average about four words each.  Though, in all fairness, it does throw in the odd ultra-run-on sentence that rambles for a paragraph before coming to a pointless close.  To make matters worse, even after only reading half the book, I was spoon fed the same story points over and over again by the authors.  It seems to show that either the authors can't write, or they have such contempt for the intelligence of their readers that they feel it necessary to cover the same ground repeatedly.  One wonders what happened that any editor, agent, or publisher ever gave the original manuscript (presumably in worse shape than it's final publication version) a second look.<br />Definitely skip over this book in your reading.  Even if someone gives it to you for free, it isn't worth the time invested, when you could be reading something (anything!) else.  If you are looking for good, Christian reading, by authors who can actually write, try anything by: GK Chesterton, Graham Greene, Tolkien, or CS Lewis.	2004-05-10
US	49782890	R3ADSLBD82H52D	0761563733	897968670	The New Thought Police: Inside the Left's Assault on Free Speech and Free Minds	Books	5	17	19	N	N	One Brave Woman	Tammy Bruce, an openly gay, liberal feminist, and former president of NOW LA Chapter, has written one of the bravest books I've read in a long, long time.  In The New Thought Police, Tammy Bruce reveals the hidden agenda of the extreme left, which she says isn't equality and understanding, but rather control of the very THOUGHTS of everyone in our nation.  <br />Topics covered are: the ridiculousness of hate-crimes legislation, the unfair treatment of Dr. Laura (known for disagreeing with homosexuality, but also for demanding they be treated with dignity and respect), the exploitation by Al Sharpton and Jesse Jackson of African-Americans and how they are destroying the progress made by the civil rights movement, the selling-out of NOW and the feminist establishment by refusing to come out against OJ Simpson as a wife batterer, how multicultural apologists have actually made things worse for immigrants, the danger to the career of Hollywood stars if they should 'come-out' as having right-wing or pro-life tendancies, and perhaps worst of all, the mind-control of the academic establishment on America's college campuses.<br />Bruce sounds a wake-up call for all women, gays, minorities, and true liberals that trying to police what people think and say not only doesn't make the world a better place, but pushes dissenting opinions underground where they tend to fester and breed resentment, giving fuel to the truly dangerous types, like the KKK.  Rather than trying to silence all opinions that we disagree with, Bruce suggests, we need to work to balanced viewpoints in media, and true dialogue.  When the vitriole is turned off, she says, we actually find the the left and the right agree more than disagree, and can at least work together on issues that are common to all people (as she demonstrated happened when conservatives wrote donation checks to NOW in support of a project to help the plight of battered women).  On the other hand, Bruce shows, if we don't stop the thoughtpolice, we will soon be living in the society of George Orwell's 1984, and we will no longer even be able to pretend that we live in a society where we can have the free exchange of thoughts and ideas.	2004-04-27
US	49782890	R4308CZQ3Z0E1	0684801469	11530247	A Farewell To Arms	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Read Slowly	A Farewell to Arms is Hemingway's famous novel of a WWI love affair.  Drawing on his life experience Hemingway introduces us to  Frederic and Catherine.  Frederic is an American ambulance driver in the Italian army (as was Hemingway himself), and Catherine is a nurse behind the battlelines.  The two fall in love, are separated by war, reunite through a mutual act of desertion, and eventually go through a pregnancy and it's consequences together.<br />Hemingway's prose is spare and to the point.  There are absolutely no unneeded adjectives.  Some would argue that there are a few adjectives left out.  His dialogue at times seems wooden and strange, not following a way that &quot;normal&quot; people would talk.  Yet, this is the brilliance of Hemingway's style, for these two people are not &quot;normal&quot; people talking.  They are two people in a strange country, in the middle of trench warfare, grappling with insanity and chaos all around them, steeped in the strangeness of finding love in such surroundings.  There is nothing normal about anything in this situation, and Hemingway shows that with subtle ease.<br />A Farewell to Arms is a slim novel without any difficult language that slows down other classic works of literature.  The temptation to the modern reader is to go through it quickly, looking for the plot, suspense, and resolution.  If the reader does this, they will be left wondering what all the hype is about.  Instead, read each chapter individually, one at a time.  If the reader does that, they will be transported into WWI Italy, and experience what Hemingway intended, the horrors and heroism of people attempting to live with grace and dignity in a disgraceful and undignified situation.	2004-04-13
US	49782890	R1RHY8OIZID876	0385508417	999720718	Skipping Christmas	Books	2	6	6	N	N	Skip This Book	Skipping Christmas is a short tale about what happens when Nora and Luther Krank decide to forgoe spending the $6100 that they spent last Christmas and take a Caribean cruise instead.  Predictably, the Kranks are soon facing a boatload of peer pressure to &quot;get into the holiday spirit&quot;.  Their neighbors are upset when they don't put the usual giant Frosty on the roof (thus costing them the neigborhood decorating contest), the printer is upset that they won't be ordering Christmas cards or party invitiations, their friends are upset there won't be a big Christmas party, the police association is upset that they won't spend $100 for a calendar...and on it goes.  As you can tell, what starts out sounding familiar and funny, soon drags on for too long.<br />To make matters worse, after Nora and Luther drag themselves through each of these painful encounters, and you just start to begin being able to like them for sticking to their guns,  their grown daughter calls unexpectedly and says she'll be home in a few hours and is bringing her new fiance home with her, and she just can't wait to show him Christmas in the United States.  Do the Kranks do what a normal, reasonable couple would do and say, &quot;Well, we're sorry dear, but you didn't give us any notice, and you see, we've spent $3000 on a cruise and have plans to leave tomorrow.&quot;  No, they totally capitulate, hence throwing away all the effort they put into skipping Christmas to begin with.  They throw the $3000 down the drain and by hook and crook (and some really ridiculous scenes), and with the help of the neighbors who had been so snotty about them skipping Christmas to begin with, throw a big Christmas party for their daughter and her new fiance.<br />The whole story was just ridiculous and predictable.  By the end, I just couldn't like ANY of the characters.  A neighborhood that thinks some family &quot;owes&quot; them Christmas decorations?  Good thing they weren't hindus.  Parents who think their grown daughter is too immature to understand that they don't want to flush $3000 down the toilet?  At the end of the book, I just felt like these people needed to get a grip, get a life, and get some priorities.  I'm only glad that it was a small book and didn't take up too much of my time.their grown daughter is too immature to understand that they don't want to flush $3000 down the toilet?  At the end of the book, I just felt like these people needed to get a grip, get a life, and get some priorities.  I'm only glad that it was a small book and didn't take up too much of my time.	2004-04-12
US	49782890	RKAQYKDSGZNWP	0451409868	5246900	Proof of Life	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Enjoyable Light Reading	Having not seen the movie Proof of Life, I went into this book with no preconceived notions of what to expect.  What I got was an pleasantly different story based upon the Kidnap and Ransom (K&amp;R) industry.   The K&amp;R industry provides &quot;insurance&quot; for the famous, the extremely wealthy, or anyone else who is in a position that may result in their being kidnapped for ransom, typically in a third-world type country.  This insuranse provides ransom money, equipment for any necessity, and an expert negotiator who will stick with you for as long as it takes - sometimes years.<br />Starting with this premise, Proof of Life follows just such a story in an enjoyable, if predictable, fashion.  A civil engineer working in a third world country is kidnapped for ranson.  A negotiator is sent to work with his wife, and ends up falling in love with her.  Just to keep things interesting and not too easy, there are some hitches along the way (such as the negotiator leaves because it turns out the insurance premiums weren't paid).<br />Overall, this is a small novel that is by no means a literary masterpiece, but will provide a few hours of light entertainment and mindless reading on a Saturday afternoon.  A short article in the front of the novel about the K&amp;R industry is a nice bonus and helps with understanding how the story works.	2004-04-09
US	49782890	RA7E21C9S297Q	0201484048	735255015	How Children Learn (Classics in Child Development)	Books	5	29	31	N	N	Parents MUST read this	There must be a thousand books out in the world for parents right now.  How to do this or that with your baby/toddler/child, OR How to get your baby/toddler/child to do this or that.  From pregnancy through college there is a guide for every problem, or perceived problem, that you may possibly have.  <br />How Children Learn, though, is not a guide.  It is simply a demonstration, through the journal of John Holt, that children are smart and know how to learn, from the moment they are born.  He shows that by giving children the space and freedom they need to explore things that interest them, we allow them to develop thinking skills.  We allow them to figure the world out, learn that things work in certain ways, and that the world is generally a predictable and benevolent place.  Holt shows through his experiences that not only do we not need to force children to learn, or to teach them much, but that teaching (and especially coersion) are counterproductive to learning.<br />It would be impossible to explain in a short space the thinking behind How Children Learn.  By sharing his experiences, Holt shows us about children, not educational philosophies or theories.  Get this book and read it.  It will change the way that you think about children and learning forever.	2004-04-09
US	49782890	R1VAPM49RONQJ	0440391601	476993653	Underachieving School	Books	5	18	18	N	N	Why Schools Can't Be Fixed	In The Underachieving School, John Holt Shows us why schools can't be fixed.  It's not a lack of money, too many students per teacher, too many societal problems, or any of the other ideas that have been blamed for the state of schooling.  Holt shows, rather than tells, that schools can't be fixed because they are not a good idea gone bad.  They were a bad idea to begin with.<br />Full of first hand accounts, this book shows the difference between learning and schooling; why schools are bad for children mentally, physically, and emotionally; why teachers talk too much and prevent students from real socialization; why tests are not only useless, but harmful; why schools turn previously well mannered children into &quot;behaviour problems&quot;; and so much more...<br />An excerpt from The Underachieving School highlights the problem:<br />&quot;In school certain things are &quot;spozed&quot; to happen; the kids are &quot;spozed&quot; to sit still, be quiet, read the texts, do the workbooks, pass the exams.  If none of these things happens, if the kids learn nothing, riot in the halls, drop out, that's OK, as long as you tried to make happen what was &quot;spozed&quot; to happen.  But if you tried to make something else happen, even if, like Herndon's, your kind of order worked and your kids found things worth doing and actually did them, you're a threat to the system, and out you go. &quot;<br />Many of us think that bad schools and student underachievement are a modern problem.  They are not.  Everett Reimer wrote about achievement problems in the 70s.  John Taylor Gatto wrote about the 80s and 90s.  Flesch, of &quot;Why Johnny Can't Read&quot; fame, wrote in the mid-50s.  John Holt writes in the early 60s.<br />Read this book.  Read Holt's others books.  Read the authors above who came before and after Holt.  Then you will have a broad picture, and will be able to truly understand, The Underachieving School.	2004-04-07
US	49782890	R1D4XF5FZNR880	0440414806	159975375	Holes	Books	3	5	6	N	N	Fun, but could use some polish	Holes is the story of Stanley Yelnats, who finds himself in a juvenile bootcamp after being convicted of a crime he did not commit.  An overweight and socially inept boy, Stanley at first has a hard time in the camp, but eventually makes friends with the boys with whom he shares the dry lakebed and hole-digging project.  It is with these boys that Stanley will undertake adventures, misadventures, and eventually an Odyessy-like journey through both the desert and his own coming-of-age soul.<br />Holes is definitely a fun story, with something for every type of reader.  Stanley's interaction with his friends at camp is sometimes touching and often funny.  The actions of the warden, who purposefully gives a non-lethal, but intensely painful, dose of snake venom to one of the camp counselors, will give a thrill to those readers who like suspense and action.  Stanley's journey through the desert to find and rescue his friend has a literary quality that is almost lyrical and will arose a spark of fond remembrance for those who enjoyed Homer's Odyessy.  And the shutting down of the camp by the lawyer, who is working for Stanley's father to help patent an invention, will give satisfaction to readers who desire a happy ending all around.<br />However, it is also this same 'something for everyone' type of story that gives the book a very first-draft feeling.  In turns the story is beautiful, sarcastic, innocent, and brutally violent.  It just doesn't go altogether.  Each turn in tone makes the reader feel that they have been jarred out of this book and into some other.  One wonders if it hasn't been written to appeal to adults and children, in an attempt to capture a larger market share.  It must be nice for an author when that happens, but in this case it was just too forced and made the book feel rough and unpolished.  <br />Children will probably not be very aware of this in the book, so perhaps this is still a good read for them.  I would definitely caution parents to read this book for themselves, though, before giving it over to their children.  There is some brutal violence in this book, and parents will need to know it and gauge whether it is appropriate for their child.	2003-11-27
US	49782890	RX36QQ38W0O9I	0425188221	612750828	Shadowland	Books	5	65	66	N	N	High-end horror	Shadowland, by Peter Straub, is a piece of really excellent high-end horror.  The book begins in a private prep school for boys.  In this school, Del and Tom, two freshmen boys fascinated by magic, find each other and form a strong friendship.  Together, they learn card tricks, try to figure out why the whole school is having nightmares, dodge the crazy headmaster of the school, and do the sort of pal-around that only boys of a certain age can do.  Their school year culminates with a big talent show in which Del and Tom plan to perform a magical exhibition.  Circumstances in the story keep this from happening and the boys retire for the summer to the estate of Del's uncle, Shadowland.<br />Del's uncle is a half-crazy, alcoholic, retired magician.  He sets about teaching the boys magic.  His magic, though, consists of more than tricking the eye with a slight of hand.  At Shadowland, nothing is as it seems.  An hour can feel like all day.  The sun can set at 11am.  You can find yourself suddenly half-way across a continent, just to find that you haven't moved from your spot at all.  There are others living at Shadowland that are unseen, and whose existence is denied.  There are rules that are made in the hopes of being broken.  As Del's uncle spends the summer recounting his life, in all it's horror, to the boys Tom realizes that the horror is only starting.  As he sees things that can't be real, but are, and he sees the immediate horrors being committed at Shadowland, Tom realizes that he has to leave, and Del must come with him.  Unfortunately, for Tom and Del, Uncle Collins has realized something about Tom that even Tom doesn't yet know - and he wants it for himself.<br />In Shadowland, Peter Straub has written a brilliant piece of fiction.  There are plots, subplots, and subplots within those.  Nothing in this book is without purpose to the story.  Straub's writing, which has a definite British bent, despite the story being set in the United States, is very literary and rich.  More complex than Stephen King, Straub is still very readable, especially to those who like a thicker story.  No one who enjoys literary horror will be disappointed for having read this book.rary and rich.  More complex than Stephen King, Straub is still very readable, especially to those who like a thicker story.  No one who enjoys literary horror will be disappointed for having read this book.	2003-11-26
US	49782890	R1MN8XTA5PI810	0142437301	512173793	The Power and the Glory (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Awesome!!	Graham Greene, writing The Power and the Glory, has a written a literary masterpiece with many themes, but one overall point..The Catholic Church is more than the sum of it's people.  <br />Set in Mexico, about the 1930s, this story talks about the Church being outlawed by the state as a source of greed and oppression.  The priests are given the options to marry or be shot.  We pick up the story when there are two priests left in Mexico, as the others have all been shot or have fled the country.  One priest, is a sad and lonely creature, eaten up with guilt over his choice to marry.  He hates his state of life, hates his wife, hates the taunts of children, but mostly hates himself for capitulating to the marriage instead of being a saint for God.  The other priest, and main character of the story, is the 'Whiskey priest'.  The author gives him no name, but tells his story through his interactions with others.<br />The Whiskey priest is on the run through Mexico.  He is a self-described bad priest, an alcoholic, and father to an illegitimate child.  Yet, some amount of grace remains in him for he finds himself to be too much of a coward to turn himself in and be shot, which would effectively be the sin of suicide, and yet too good to turn his back on an ill person calling for last rites - even though it means missing his chance to escape the country and the policeman who hunts him.<br />The story is too rich and complex to describe completely.  It's themes are the good people who do bad things, the intentions of people, and the power of God to turn evil to his good purposes.  I strongly urge everyone to read this book.  It is a slim book with very accessible writing, but the power of it's story will change how you think about the Church, people, and the nature of good and evil forever.	2003-11-26
US	49782890	R2SI3BE2B6J9LW	0375700757	11590154	Cold Mountain: A Novel	Books	3	7	15	N	N	Not worth the time	There is much that one could say about Cold Mountain.  As a winner of the National Book Award, it certainly has something praiseworthy in it's prose.  Individually, the chapters are written in a lyrical way, with stunning detail that evokes the intentionally grim mood of the book.  <br />Of the plot, there is precious little to say, for there is precious little plot at all.  Inman is on a journey home, on foot, after desserting the army during the Civil War.  On the way, he encounters endless trials to the point of ridiculousness.  While this is clearly an attempted to homage to The Odyssey, it doesn't come off well in this book, and simply makes Cold Mountain look worse for the comparison.  Ada, Inman's sweetheart prior to the war and ultimate goal of his journey, has inherited a non-working farm from her recently deceased father.  Now she struggles, ala Sally Field in Places in the Heart.  Ada's story is considerably more interesting than Inman's and provides the only attempt at plot that will draw the reader in at all.<br />The form and pacing of Cold Mountain may be of interest to some readers.  The book starts off painfully slow, actually picks up speed in the middle, and then comes to an abrupt end.  While I don't typically like to give readers the ending, I will here (for those who care to read it).  Near the end, Inman suddenly is home and finds Ada.  They spend one passionate, snowed-in night together, and then Inman gets himself killed by soldiers looking for desserters.  This ending is typical of so many modern authors who use literary devices not to effect, but because they can.  In this story, it serves no purpose but to make the reader feels as if the author is saying to them &quot;so there, hah!&quot;, like a small child.<br />While Cold Mountain certainly has some well written and lovely prose, it is overall not worth the time.  If a reader is interested in a journey, then get the real Odyessy, and skip this sad imitation.  If you do decide to give Cold Mountain a shot, be forewarned that you will have to give it at least 100 pages before you can begin to feel invested in this book (and one really isn't sure if you are invested in the story, or the 100 pages that you have already read) and it will not end happily.	2003-11-14
US	49782890	R3HN9AA9WKAXSM	0439145449	387019333	Bob Books First! Level A, Set 1  (re-released as Bob Books Set 1- Beginning Readers)	Books	5	39	42	N	N	Our Son Loves These!!	We got these for our son's fifth birthday.  He had been working with some phonics cards for a while and knew most of the sounds.  What we couldn't find, though, were books that were simple enough for him to practice the real reading.  Most of the books just had too many different types of sounds and see-and-say words to allow him to practice.<br />The Bob Books have taken all of that away!  These books have one, at most two, short sentences on each page.  Most of the sounds in the sentences fall within one or two vowel sounds.  This has really taken away the overwhelm that he felt before looking at whole paragraphs in other children's books.  Now that he feels confident that he can read, he is progressing quickly into more and more difficult material.<br />Buy the Bob Books.  I don't know ANYONE who has gotten them and been disappointed.	2003-11-05
US	49782890	R2GD5DXGPRAGGI	0553582933	637222809	Winter Moon	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Too Much Backstory	Winter Moon was an okay, but by no means fantastic, read.  The story goes like this: Jack McGarvey is a cop who gets shot up on the job in LA and decides that he just can't take the mean streets anymore.  He moves his family out to a Montana ranch inherited from Eduardo Fernandez (his dead partner's father). Before his death, Fernandez discovers a strange 'alien' being of some kind that has no purpose or motivation other than to 'become' and 'hate'.  A face to face confrontation with this being is what causes Fernandez'a ultimate demise, from a heart attack.  When the McGarveys move to the ranch, they soon discover this being.  Before long they find themselves in battle for their very survival.<br />This story would have been much better, except for a couple of problems.  1.Way too much backstory.  The whole first half of the book is literally split in two.  You go back and forth between Jack's recovery from the shooting in an LA hospital and Fernandez's various encounters with the alien. Because it takes literally half the book for the main plot to get going, you feel like you are reading two different books, and end up unable to fully get involved with the plot of either.  Really, DK could have split this up into two books that could have stood on their own. 2.The alien's lack of any motivation that the reader would be able to understand was just unsatisfying.  While it might be true that we could never understand something that is truely alien, because of it's very 'alien-ness', it doesn't make for very satisfying story telling.<br />This isn't the worst book I've ever read, but DK can (and has) done a lot better.  As long-time fans know, he is a little hit or miss.  Newcomers to DK novels should not let this novel put them off of future readings.	2003-07-28
US	49782890	R2N53DOUFBDT3X	0553211757	755691955	Crime and Punishment (Bantam Classics)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Incredibly Rich	Crime and Punishment is a complex, rich, and deeply satisfying work.  Indeed, the story is far too complex to relate it in this space.  What you need to know is that the story centers around the consequences of one man's horrible action, committing a murder.  Much of the story is spent exploring the psychology of guilt and what happens to this man when he breaks so thoroughly with the his own human nature.<br />The author shows, in detail, what becomes of men and society when intellectualism, individualism, and all of the many other 'isms that affected Russia at the time this story was written are taken to their logical conclusion.  Humans are more than the sum of their thoughts, and tradgedy is sure to ensue when we shut off the rest of our nature.  <br />Ultimately, Crime and Punishment is a morality tale.  What happens when men refuse the mores of a society to prove that they are unneeded?  What happens when men convince themselves that they are special and above the law?  <br />This story is long, complex, and rich.  Do not try to rush through it.  Read this in the quiet times of your day and absorb each part slowly.  You'll find it to be the literary equivalent of an extremely fine wine.	2003-07-26
US	49782890	R2Y1GCA7M5LXH5	0553581554	167587840	The Killing Game: An Eve Duncan Forensics Thriller	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Suspenseful and Surprising	The Killing Game is an awesome thriller.  Eve Duncan's child, Bonnie, was murdered 10 years ago by a serial killer.  The killer refused to reveal the location of Bonnie's body before he was executed.  Now some bones have been uncovered, one of which may be Bonnie.  Eve wants to use her skills in facial reconstruction to find out if this could be her girl.  <br />In the meantime, a serial killer has set his sights on Eve.  Bored and unable to experience emotion, he has set himself a game playing with Eve's emotions by leaving her little pieces of bones and making creepy phone calls.  He wants to drive Eve practically out of her mind with grief about Bonnie before he finally kills her.<br />While trying to find this killer, and discover if these new bones belong to Bonnie, Eve also has man problems.  Her old friend, Joe, is a cop who got rich through inheritance.  He loves her and wants her for himself.  Meanwhile, Logan, a rich computer tycoon, also wants her.  Eve doesn't know what she wants.  I found this part of the story a little much for my tastes.  Being torn between two nice, kind, good-looking, rich men is a problem that all women should have. : )<br />The Killing Game is well written, fast paced, and full of suspense.  I was actually surprised at the end when I learned who the killer was.  This is a book well worth it's time and price.	2003-07-26
US	49782890	R2124I9Y4BPX3F	0786863943	300971212	The Unexpected Legacy of Divorce: The 25 Year Landmark Study	Books	5	22	24	N	N	Divorce Culture's Lies Revealed!!	The Unexpected Legacy of Divorce is an important book.  Using a twenty-five year study the author debunks all of the myths of the divorce culture in which we now live.  These lies: that children are resilient and will 'bounce back', that little children don't know what's going on, that when parents are happy their children will be happy, that not fighting in front of children shields them from the effects of divorce, that divorce is a temporary crisis in the child's life, and that as soon as the splitting parents stabalize their lives the children will recover, are demolished point by point.  <br />The author demonstrates, through examples in her case studies, that: very little children experience very big feelings about divorce (including rage and fear), that each lifestage a child goes through causes them to re-live the divorce again in some new way, that divorce causes personal and relationship issues for the children well into adulthood, and that the divorce culture is creating a new generation of people who choose not to marry and risk reliving their parents mistakes.<br />The author also takes on the important, if uncomfortable, truth that parents do not usually want to do the work of taking on the issues that their divorce creates for their children.  Not fighting in front of the children isn't enough.  Children need to be given opportunities to express their anger at having their lives torn apart, their homes and friends snatched away, and time with their parents disappear.  The author points out that parents are usually more concerned with dealing with their own issues surrounding the divorce, working on new relationships, and rebuilding their personal social lives.  The children of divorce are typically left on their own emotionally, sometimes literally. She also addresses the issue of children having to adjust to new step-parents, lovers, and step-siblings.  <br />The problem of competition between children and step parents is also treated with frankness.Children are far too often given short shrift when a new step-parent feels threatened or that the child is taking up too much: time, space, money, attention, etc. The author is admirably blunt in stating that if forced to choose, parents more often than not choose the new spouse over their child.<br />This is an important work that should serve as a wake-up call.  Divorce hurts children.  Children of divorce are more likely to get divorced, creating more hurt children.  Our society cannot survive too many more generations of this cycle before we implode upon ourselves.  Read this book.	2003-07-24
US	49782890	RH8I195C7AS93	0385474547	672855451	Things Fall Apart	Books	3	1	3	N	N	Doesn't Deliver	Things Fall Apart has been hyped as a book about the effects of colonialism upon Africa.  It really fails to deliver upon that promise.  The theme of colonialism isn't introduced until the last quarter of the book.  Further, the story really fails to extrapolate upon the full effects of colonialism.  It just doesn't deliver.<br />What Things Fall Apart does have going for it, is a well written portrait of African tribal life.  The author takes the brave course of showing how well tribal life worked, both in it's communal beauty and it's communal brutality.  The characters shown within the tribe are diverse and full.  The author does a good job of creating a 'village'.  For those who enjoy reading books that give not just information, but the 'feel' of another culture, this book will be much enjoyed.	2003-07-24
US	49782890	R2WA42A204NK9B	0553580191	294009896	Seize the Night	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Lots of Fun	As there are so many good which explain the story and plot of Seize the Night, I won't bother to reiterate the story here.  I will just add that this story is very fast paced, tightly knit, and tons of fun.  Readers are strongly encouraged to read Fear Nothing before picking up Seize the Night.  While it's not absolutely necessary, you will get much more out of the story if you do.  All the characters in this book, while somewhat difficult to believe (but hey, it's fiction), are very interesting and lots of fun.  While some reviewers found Bobby's suffer lingo annoying, I actually found it lots of fun.  It's nice to see a character with his own personality and some different adjectives for a change.<br />Read Fear Nothing, then read Seize the Night.  You'll have lots of fun.	2003-07-14
US	49782890	R1SQ1LD6Y9WLQ9	0788159488	413309517	Outrageous Practices: The Alarming Truth About How Medicine Mistreats Women	Books	2	4	11	N	N	Disappointing FemiNazi Diatribe	Outrageous Practices was a book that held much promise.  It seemed like it would be a great forum to bring the issues of inequity in women's health care to the light.  Unfortunately, the entire book is nothing more than the typical FemiNazi rantings and ravings over abortion and so-called equality for women.  No matter what the chapter heading or supposed subject of a section in this book was titled, the authors somehow managed to circle every issue back around to abortion.  In their minds, complete, on-demand, wholy unrestricted and free (except to us tax payers) abortion is the only thing that is going to bring about medical equality for women.  They are even against parental notification for minors.  Unfortunately, their sense of equality doesn't extend to doctors, who they feel should be forced into being trained for the procedure and not given the option of declining to offer it to their patients (regardless of the doctor's reason).   In their minds' the ability of the patient to have confidential abortions, rather than having to go to an abortion clinic, is more important than the doctor's right to decline doing a procedure that the doctor may feel is immoral, unprofitable, or even dangerous.<br />Women in our society are never going to make progress or be taken seriously until the FemiNazi's like these two authors stop relating every woman's issue to abortion.	2003-07-14
US	49782890	R30QCVTCSSXU9Q	0345434773	401815439	Evensong (Ballantine Reader's Circle)	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Reads like a 3rd person journal	Evensong just didn't work for me as a cohesive story.  There were lots of competing story lines, but not one that was prevalent or that caused me to wonder what would happen next or how it would be resolved.  There is Margaret, the main character and an Episcopalian preist, who is married to Adrian (also a priest).  The author plays with story lines that include: Margaret's struggle to make sense of her mother's abandonment, the effects of economic depression on a small town, the craziness that the town experiences at the approach of the millenium, the disparities between christian fundamentalists and more traditional style christians, the ideology of women in the preisthood, the ramifications of Margaret choosing a much older husband, Adrian's depression, a major church fire, a young boy's abandonment by his adoptive parents, and the secret return of Adrian's father (who had abandoned him in childhood).  Any one of these ideas could have been a good main plot or subplot.  Unfortunately none of them are developed enough to make the reader care.  The result is that Evensong reads like a third person journal of the events in this family at a particular time. The reader spends a long time waiting to 'get into' the main story line, but it simply never develops.<br />The only reason this book received even three stars is that Gail Godwin proves herself to be a very talented writer.  I'm sure that this book would have been fabulous if she could have just pulled it together with a main plotline.  This is my first Gail Godwin book.  While I didn't like it, I may try another in the future, based upon the talented writing of the author.	2003-07-14
US	49782890	R1193D42DDYTGE	042513525X	565346155	Hideaway	Books	2	3	8	N	N	Strong Start, Disappointing Finish	Hideaway is one of those books which start out great, with a big bang, and goes downhill from there.  The start of the book starts with Lindsey and Hatch, the main characters, in a major auto accident that sends their car toppling down an embankment and into a river.  Koontz illustrates the excruciating details of this accident beautifully.  He really puts the reader rigth into the car with his characters.<br />After that, however, the book slowly slides downhill.  It begins when Hatch starts experiencing 'visions' of horrible things that he soon realizes aren't nightmares, but actual events.  Hatch has apparently carried back the ability to psychicly link-up with a serial killer, who also happens to be possesed by an evil spirit. It also just happens that the serial killer was also brought back from the dead by the same doctor who brings Hatch back from the dead.  It also happens that this serial killer was that doctor's son.  It also happens that this serial killer wants Hatch's wife Lindsey and their newly adopted daughter for his 'collection' of bodies that he is dedicating to Satan in an attempt to earn his way back into hell.  Have all of the 'it also happens' gotten to be as ridiculous to you as they did to me?<br />A word about the characters in this book.  Usually, Dean Koontz comes up with believable characters that I like and can root for (or against).  In this case, I think he really screwed up.  I began to hate the main characters in this book, Hatch and Lindsey, as soon as they decided to go ahead with their adoption even though they knew they were likely putting the child in the way of a serial killer.  What kind of people are they?  Who wants to root for someone like that?  After that point in this book I kept hoping that the two main characters would 'get it' while the child was somehow spared.  <br />This is not a great Dean Koontz.  I seriously hope that people do not pick this up as their first DK book.  I can't imagine that they would read another after that.	2003-07-14
US	49782890	R25FGR60FUO2AO	0898704782	829781467	Rome Sweet Home: Our Journey to Catholicism	Books	4	21	23	N	N	Emotionally Compelling and Scriptural	Rome Sweet Home details the journey that Scott and Kimberley Hahn took in coming from a reformed protestant background, as Presbyterians with theology degrees, into the Roman Catholic Church.  The book is very emotionally compelling, told by Scott and Kimberley's points of view separately,  as it reveals how Scott first comes to doubt his background and begins to 'defect' to Rome.  He is troubled not just by this faith change, but the fact that it will mean abandoning his profession as a minister and causing much strife in his marriage.  The story goes on to demonstrate the difficulties that his marriage faced as Kimberley struggled to remain a faithful wife, while dealing with resentment toward Scott for 'breaking the deal'.  For her this a deep betrayal as her dreams of being a pastor's wife are dashed and she has to decide how she will submit to Scott's leadership in raising their children in the faith.  Though it takes a number of years after Scott's conversion, Kimberely is eventually won over to Catholicism and she details the joy she feels are restoring her family's unity.  Their story is very dramatic as it takes place amongst financial difficulties, the shunning of friends, Kimberley's struggles, and advice that she should divorce Scott and take their children with her.  Anyone of faith will read this and be impressed with the integrity that both of these people treat their faith with, regardless of whether or not the reader is Catholic.  No one could fail to be impressed with their dedication to the pursuit of truth and God's will.<br />There is quite a lot of scripture sprinkled throughout this book. These scriptures are given in the context of the Hahn's personal studies, but are not presented in a study format.  That is the only complaint that I have about this book.  While the book does not claim to be an apology, it would have been nice if they had added an appendix that detailed each doctrinal issue that they had struggled with and the scriptures that had won them over.  Still, the book is good overall and an excellent witness to one couple's faith and perserverance.	2003-06-04
US	49782890	R2AOUOVEUK35C7	0449211479	241253921	The Source	Books	4	3	7	N	N	Compelling and Emotional	The Source is a sweep back through time to the Jewish people of the Middle East.  The story takes us back to the days when the gods were little statues, monoliths on a mountain, and child-eating fires.  It moves forward through time to the mid-sixties.  The author uses the tool of mini-stories, one per chapter, to show the evolution of one era to the next.<br />Individually, the chapters (stories) are well-written and emotionally compelling.  Some will break your heart.  Some will make you cheer.  Overall, the book does an excellent job of showing how the Jewish people feel about themselves, their homeland, each other, and their religion.  They are not over-simplified but shown in the full complexity of their feelings and experience.  This is what the book does really well.<br />The only complaint that I have is that some parts of the book are historically questionable.  Many will feel that the story shows a bias against certain religious/ethnic factions.  The author also occasionally gets a little lax about using modern verbage in inappropriate settings.  For example, I can't imagine someone in the pre-Christian era using the word 'cronies'.<br />Overall, though, the book is good and worth reading for a picture of the Jewish feelings that may have been manifest in different periods.  It is also excellent as pure fiction.  I enjoyed it a lot.	2003-06-02
US	49782890	R2BNGP9VW0WE4D	0375706771	930468436	Midwives (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Good read	Sibyl Danforth, a Vermont lay-midwife, attends a homebirth that goes horribly wrong when the laboring mother apparently dies.  Sibyl makes a hard decision and performs a C-section on the apparently dead woman to save her baby.  The story is based upon the ramifications of this decision - because Sibyl's apprentice and the laboring woman's husband claim that the woman wasn't dead when Sibyl performs the C-section.  Thus Sibyl ends up being charged by the state with involuntary manslaughter, under the claim that the C-section Sibyl performed to save the baby's life killed it's mother.<br />Midwives is told from the point of view of Sibyl's daughter, Connie, who is fourteen at the time of the tradgedy.  As a grown woman and ob/gyn, Connie is still trying to come to terms with what happened to her family in the months after the 'bad birth'.<br />The writing in this book is good, sticking to a simpler style while keeping the tension tight.  The author uses the harsh Vermont weather to invoke a bleak atmosphere that serves as the backdrop to the stress that Connie's family will go through. Unlike other books where mood plays an important part, Midwives is not unalterably sad.  Instead, it is stressful.  The reader can feel the pressure mounting upon Connie and her family as the story move along.  The story is also broken up by bits of humor, such as Connie's experiences with her first boyfriend, and the sounds of zippers being undone in the courtroom when a baby needs to be fed.  Women who have nursed their babies will relate to the scene of a reporter looking at the wall behind a nursing mother's head while she is being interviewed.<br />The author does an excellent job of demonstrating the ongoing animosity between the mainstream medical community and those who choose so-called alternative medical options (homebirthing, nursing children past 1 year, disuse of vaccines, etc.).  This is a real issue for many people and this book will do some good in bringing this to the attention of a wider audience.<br />At the same time, though, people within the 'alternative' community may not take kindly to their being portrayed as a bunch of acid-dropping ex-hippies (which represents only a tiny portion) instead of people who are highly educated and empowering themselves to make their own medical decisions.  <br />Readers from both mainstream and alternative schools of thought will enjoy this book.  Some people will be angered and outraged by the ending of this book.  Some will love the shocking twist at the end.  Some will feel betrayed.  Everyone will enjoy the book.	2003-06-02
US	49782890	RT2340QUH3W8K	0805042024	47858690	Outrageous Acts and Everyday Rebellions: Second Edition (Owlet Book)	Books	2	21	119	N	N	A Mixed Bag	Like so much feminist writing, Gloria Stienem's Outrageous Acts and Everyday Rebellions is a very mixed bag of thought.  On the one hand, there are many important issues addressed in this book. Equal pay for equal work, sexual harrassment, the glass ceiling, good health care, and the objectification of women are among some of the topics covered.  As this book was written more than a decade ago, it is a shame to see that these issues are still as relevant as they ever were.  Gloria Steinem does an excellent job in illustrating these issues with her personal stories.  She also has the ability to be very funny as an author, making her reader laugh at the sad ridiculousness of so many things.<br />Unfortunately, like most feminist literature, this work confuses the liberation and equality with doing whatever one wants.  Abortion, of course, is the worst example of this.  The author is always careful to defend a woman's right 'to choose' but never actually comes out to say what she is 'choosing'.  The choice is to end a human life - even science argees with that!  An embryo (because pro-abortionists claim that an embryo is not a fetus, and therefore not human, until after the first trimester(and even that they cannot agree upon, some say it is earlier some say later)) has a separate DNA code from either it's mother or it's father, or any other human being on the planet.  Using high-resolution imaging, at three weeks from conception (when most women would be finding out that they are pregnant and arranging for thier abortion, if that is their 'choice') you can visibly see a head, eyes, ears, body, spine, and the beginning of hands and feet.  Scientists have tried, and failed, to come up with a specific date at which the fetus becomes human (therefore creating a date at which it is inhuman before that).  There is no longer any scientific doubt as to whether a conception is human. Clearly abortion is killing.  Feminism will never do women any good until we stop this evil thing.  Abortion does not only kill babies, it hurts women.  Over and over studies have shown that women who have had abortions wish that they had not.  Many are seriously damaged both mentally and emotionally.  Abortion also hurts women's bodies.  Every abortion a woman has doubles her chance of premature birth with subsequent pregnancies.  Abortion also damages the uterus and can make it impossible for a woman to conceive.  Abortion is also implicated in some types of reproductive cancers.  How can this be good for women?<br />This book, like much feminine work, also encourages a 'do what you wanna do' type philosophy.  Anything that makes a woman feel good is no longer disallowed.  Sex outside of marriage, working when you have small children, easy divorce, etc.  The author's justifications for these things seem to be two-fold 1.The 'everyone else is doing it' mentality.  Didn't our mothers teach us better than that?  2.Men have been getting away with it, so we should, too!  I would like to hope that just because men do something that is wrong (like have sex outside of marriage) that this doesn't make it ok.  Doing something bad, just because we can, doesn't help us.  It only brings us down to their level.<br />Finally, one of the most disturbing things about this book is the question that isn't asked - What rights to children have?  In the midst of battling so hard for women's rights (which is a good thing) we don't ask what right our children have.  Don't children have a right to a safe development before birth?  Don't children have a right to be cared for by their mothers, instead of by daycares and schools (which we know to be substandard at best, and dangerous at worst)?  This book, in it's excellent quest for women's liberation, and it's horrible desire to free women from any sort of moral code or responsibility what-so-ever, NEVER stops to think about what children are entitled to expect.  They are so unimportant that they are never mentioned.  Whatever feminists think should be done with children, you cannot realistically address women's issues without addressing children's issues - they are inseparable!<br />I appreciate the work of the suffargists, the early feminists, and the later/current feminists as well.  I even appreciate what Gloria Steinem and others of her ilk believe they are doing to 'help' women.  But I am beginning to  wonder if the time hasn't come to create a new word to replace feminist.  A word that women like myself can use proudly, without the squirmy feeling that we are aligning ourselves with those who kill babies, toss out all morality, and have zero care for the rights of children.  Until feminists like Gloria Steinem learn to hear these issues, many women will never be able to proudly call ourselves feminists.  That is the real tradgedy of this book.	2003-05-29
US	49782890	RCU1VFUPN64J2	0671503243	127557562	Russia	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Dated, but excellent, material	Robert Kaiser's Russia: The Power and the People, is an excellent portrait of a point in time in Russia.  The material is dated to the 1970s for the most part, and gives a great view of the Russian people.  Kaiser shows how the Russians live, how they work, and how they view themselves.  Kaiser shows the Russians to be a people doing their best to live well in what westerners would consider unlivable conditions.  Overcrowded living (often several families to an apartment), the overuse of abortion because of a lack of available contraception, a 100% censored media, and irrational governmental system all contribute to how the Russians live.  <br />Kaiser demonstrates that in Russia ordinarily good people regularly lie, participate in the black market, steal from their employers, sign false statements against people, and create false reports about all sorts of things.  The brilliance of Kaiser is that he does this without being judgemental of the Russian people.  He shows that they live in a place and time that requires these things as part of their survival.  <br />Kaiser also shows that the Russians are a people of many contradictions.  They are extremely political, but as a result of a 100% controlled media, incredibly ill-informed about the rest of the world.  Perhaps the saddest thing for a western reader to learn about the Russians is their extreme paranoia.  As Kaiser shows in several examples, the government relies heavily on a network of informants and spies, to keep the populace under control.  The result is that the Russian people are unable to trust anyone with even their small talk, lest an off handed comment reach an official with the power to make their life difficult.<br />This book is not a Russian history, nor does it encompass the fall of communism.  It isn't really even a study of communism in Russia.  This book is a picture of Russian life and how it really worked for the people in that time.  It's an excellent piece of journalism that I recommendto anyone who wants to learn how Russia actually operated under communism or is curious as to why communism is not a good idea.	2003-05-29
US	49782890	R1MEXQCLKDMPEE	0892836385	445947472	Making Choices: Practical Wisdom for Everyday Moral Decisions	Books	5	50	53	N	N	Black and White, thank goodness!	Peter Kreeft has written a great little book for all those who are tired of hearing 'it's not so black and white'.  Kreeft does an excellent job of explaining, simply and clearly, that right and wrong are objective - regardless of whether or not it is easy or makes someone happy.  Kreeft also clears up some moral misconceptions like 'if it doesn't hurt anyone else, then it's ok' and 'the end justifies the means'.  Also included in this book is an excellent discussion, scientifically based, on why abortion is objectively wrong (such as the fact that science has always defined a fetus as another human life, science has never been able to come up with a concrete time limit on so-called viability, and that a fetus has a distinct human genetic code that is separate from it's mother's).<br />While in reading this book Kreeft does spend some time talking about God and his Christian faith, his arguments are philosophically and scientifically sound across the religious spectrum.  Regardless of a reader's religion/athiesm, Kreeft's logic applies.  While Kreeft argues that morality comes from God, he also demonstrates that one need not know that or believe in God to understand and use objective morals.<br />This book is highly recommended for all readers who need help with a good strategy for making choices.  It would also make an excellent gift for the person in your life who constantly argues that their morality is relative.	2003-04-23
US	49782890	R25LHYX78WQIYS	086571231X	688228440	Dumbing Us Down: The Hidden Curriculum of Compulsory Schooling	Books	5	12	13	N	N	It's Not About Bad Schools!!	John Taylor Gatto is my favorite writer on matters of the school system.  In Dumbing Us Down, he espouses no particular type of alternative to public schools.  Instead, he demonstrates what many non-homeschoolers don't understand - that it's not about 'bad schools'!  It's about schooling being anti-education.<br />Gatto, a 26 year veteran of the New York city school system and twice winner of the New York State teacher of the year award, shows that schools serve to: confuse, dominate, strip self esteem, limit children's ability to work, shorten attention span, refuse to allow children to attempt to think for themselves, and many more anti-education practices.  Through historical reference, Gatto shows how schooling is a modern phenomenom, closely linked to totalitarian governmental brainwashing.  As an example to how schools are anti-education, he demonstrates that in the state of New Hampshire literacy rates have only gone down - drastically, from where they were before institutionalized schooling.  <br />If you are a parent, read this book.  You will never think the same way about your child's education again.	2003-04-21
US	49782890	R3RHXSIOQU4YE8	0964631601	351045863	Pierced By A Sword	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Great Fictional Work	Pierced by a Sword is a fictional work based upon true Marian Apparitions, such as at Fatima and Lourdes.  This set-up delivers a book that is quite original in content and tone.  Mixed in with massacaring armies and One World government plots are characters who receive visions of the crucifixion and pray the rosary to win wars.  Of course, you also have run-of-the-mill bad guys, as well as demons inhabiting the leaders of nations.  Toss in a plot to assasinate the pope, the rise of an anti-pope, a secret Mormon council, and the collapse of the western world, you've got a rip-roaring good read.<br />Pierced by a Sword is original in style, frightening for it's reality, and excellent for it's unflinching loyalty to the true church.  The excellence of the writing of this book will ensure that even those outside of the church will enjoy the book as pure novel.<br />My only complaint about this book is that, while I enjoyed the Tom Clancy-ish writing, I found the continuous jumping back and forth in time and location a bit much.  I occasionally found myself having to work backward and remind myself where I was in the plot sequence.	2003-04-21
US	49782890	R2IDJAC2Z4OER	096463161X	633738310	Conceived Without Sin	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Great Characters	Conceived Without Sin is MacFarlane's second book, an even better work than his first.  In this book, action takes a back seat to characters and personal demons.  MacFarlane does an excellent job of deeply developing these characters.  All readers will be able to relate to these people, because they represent all of us, as people who are both saints and sinners.<br />Buzz's struggle with alcholism and depression will touch many people who have fought the same demons.  His strong faith and openness with others will inspire.<br />Donna's search for her true love, and surprise that it's a life of a religious, will shed light for many on the alternatives available to those who 'don't quite fit' a traditional mold.<br />Sam and Ellie's courtship, and their grace driven chasteness, will illuminate many about the way the sacrament between a man and woman can be.<br />Mark's willingness to work and humble himself before his wife, to regain her trust and love, will inspire all readers both about another way to be a tough guy,  as well as how to receive the graces of humility.<br />While Conceived Without Sin doesn't have the fast paced, rip-roaring action of Pierced By a Sword, it's message may be even more important and it's characters will stay with you for a very long time.	2003-04-21
US	49782890	RYIR1EAAC3TFR	0449221229	474532373	Mystical Paths	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Quite Enjoyable	Mystical Paths is my first experience with a Susan Howatch book. I found that I thoroughly enjoyed this book.  The characters are solid, complex, very different, and interesting.  I truly felt like these were people that I would like to get to know better.<br />I won't reiterate the plot here, since other reviewers have done it well.  I will just say that this book has elements that many readers will likely find enjoyable for pure fun reading: demonic possession, exorcism, mystery, and suspense.  There are also complex elements for the reader that likes more meat to a story:guilt, pride, vocation, growing up, and parental relation complexs.<br />My only very tiny complaint about this book is that in a few places it bogs down a bit, though it does tend to recover quickly.  Overall, though, I highly recommend this book and will be seeking out the other titles in this series.	2003-04-10
US	49782890	R3PVTQ61M8L59K	0788198971	147392212	The Myths of Motherhood: How Culture Reinvents the Good Mother	Books	2	19	54	N	N	A Mixed Bag	Like so many works by liberal feminists, The Myths of Motherhood is a mixed bag of good.  Some good, some bad, some just silly.<br />First the bad: Shari L Thurer is clearly a liberal feminist.  She uses this book to expound her belief in abortion, shared parenting arrangements, government subsidized daycare, and all the typical liberal feminist stuff.  In many places in the book Ms. Thurer switches from giving historical data of motherhood in particular times/places to postulating about she believes it can/should have been done differently, and openly expressing her opinions on the subject of the ancient people that she describes. I think it's safe to say that no one this far removed from ancient people is qualified to give opinions about them.  The giving of opinion and liberal propaganda are a shame, because the really overshadow the good things in this book.<br />Another problem that some readers may have with this book is that all religion is relegated to 'myth'.  Some people may be offended to find that their closely held religious views are treated somewhat callously in this book.<br />Second, the Silly: Ms Thurer in some places in this book has failed to do her research on the topic and makes mistakes that even a lay person can easily catch.  For example: she makes reference to the Catholic doctrine of Immaculate Conception, but she completely screws up the exegesis by making it seem that Jesus was immaculately conceived.  That is not what the doctrine of the Immaculate Conception refers to.  Immaculate Conception is the Catholic doctrine which says that Mary, the mother of Jesus, was saved and cleansed from sin in her mother's womb.  It's just silly of Ms. Thurer to make a mistake like this.  It makes the reader doubt her other academic claims as well on the logic that if she can't get the easy stuff right, how can the reader trust her with the harder parts?<br />Ms. Thurer also spends quite a lot of time in this book drawing proposterous conclusions aboutthe state of a society by drawing upon it's works of art and literature.  While these may be good tools for gauging how SOME members of a society MIGHT have felt, it is hardly material for making conclusions about an entire society's opinions on a topic - especially when the author ignore the purpose and context in which these works are made to be seen.<br />Ms Thurer also makes some pretty amazing LEAPS of logic.  My favorite example is that in looking at the historical issue of infanticide and infant mortality, Ms. Thurer feels that to prevent infant deaths (through mortality and infanticide) we should have widespread access to abortion.  Does she not understand the equation: 1DeadBabyThroughAbortion=1DeadBabyThroughInfanticide?  Honestly, logic like hers is dangerous!<br />The Good: Yes, I do have some good.  Ms Thurer does an excellent job of breaking down general historical periods and highlighting the trends, statistics, and practices of various cultures.  She also does a good job of highlighting the issue that mothers are people, too, and need to be treated as whole persons with feelings and needs (this is somewhat overshadowed by the fact that she denys that mothers have a responsibility to put their children's needs before their own happiness).  <br />Overall, this book has some good historical information that some may find interesting but is strongly overshadowed by a lack of good scholarship and the author's strong liberalist leanings.	2003-04-10
US	49782890	R1RW3HSHPVHYQ5	0060289503	884794919	Egg-Napped!	Books	5	0	0	N	N	It's OUR EGG!!	Mr. and Mrs. Gabbler have just had their first egg.  Unfortunately, in all the celebration of this event, the egg rolls off.  Hilarity ensues as The Gabblers, and everyone else in the forest, try to recover the egg.  <br />This was a great book for our 4 year old.  The writing is funny and light, making good use of some rhyme.  The illustrations are well done.  My son laughs all the way through this book, no matter how many times we read it to him.  He especially loves when The Gabblers shout at Doris the Tortoise, \\"It's OUR EGG!\\"	2003-04-04
US	49782890	R2YBIT3COZ1BCT	0618088547	941007493	Cowboy Sam and Those Confounded Secrets	Books	5	2	2	N	N	I'll keep it under my hat.	Cowboy Sam is the local secret keeper in Dry Gulch.  When someone tells him a secret he always nods and says, \\"I'll keep it under my hat.\\"  The problem begins when Cowboy Sam's hat gets too full of secrets!  Nothing he does will keep his hat on his head and the entire town of Dry Gulch has to worry about their secrets! Ultimately, Cowboy Sam finds a solution to his secret problem, a solution which wins over everyone in Dry Gulch, even Tight-Lipped Tess.  From now on, Cowboy Sam will 'keep it in his heart'.<br />Our four year old loves this book and gets a real kick out of the cute Texas sayings that Cowboy Sam brings to the book.  Yippity-Skippty and Yee-Haw!  Illustrations are look good and are funny in their own right.  Highly recommended for all small kids.	2003-04-04
US	49782890	R2MK1YWU75Y14H	0736806199	279081598	Triceratops (Discovering Dinosaurs)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Perfect Triceratops Beginner	This is a great book for any small child interested in Triceratops.  It covers: where triceratops lived (including illustrated map), relatives of triceratops, tricertops biology, diet, predators, and how they came to their ultimate demise. The book also includes a hands on activity and a short glossary.  Pictures are really good and clear.  The writing is very fact based, but easy enough for even our four year old to understand (in fact, he now knows more about triceratops than most adults probably know).  I highly recommend this book for the dinosaur lover in your family.	2003-04-04
US	49782890	R350J8YUBIKYBX	0553088416	222647340	Mixed Feelings	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Good overall	Mixed Feelings is an interesting look inside the lives, minds, and hearts of siblings.  Explored in this book are the issues that affect just about all siblings:parental favoritism, birth order, competitiveness, scapegoats, loyalty, and gender. <br />While the book is hardly scientific in nature, it more than makes up for it in readability and common sense.  The author uses excerpts from her long interviews with many siblings to identify what I found most interesting, that siblings often have very different experiences of growing up in the exact same situation. The author emphasizes the important point that in dealing with past hurts reality is irrelavent, perception is everything.<br />Two parts of this book that I felt were a little thin: 1.the author's suggestions for reinstating communication with alienated siblings.  It would have been nice to see this get a little more attentions, especially since that is likely to be the goal of many readers.  2.Siblings in bad situations.  While the author does deal with the 'hotbutton' issues of our time (alcholism, molestation, and incest) the treatment is somewhat short and only addresses those issues.  It fails to deal with the more pervasive types of abuse and neglect that many siblings suffer under their parents.<br />Overall, this is a good beginning treatment to this subject.  While not a how-to manual for repairing sibling relationships, it does give insight into the things that affect a siblings' expereince of life that will help many readers better understand themselves and their own siblings.	2003-03-31
US	49782890	R2OHGZTCMKZ9KF	0786708476	158828792	The Barrens	Books	2	2	3	N	N	Not Quite	Not quite, those are the two words which best sum up The Barrens.  It's not quite a good suspense novel, the reader has to slog through a little too much for the suspense to hold.  It's not quite a good study on twins.  In fact, all you get on this is a little bit of ranting on the living twin's part near the end of the book (by which time you have done so much 'slogging' through that you no longer care).  It's not quite a good study on relationships and the facades of society.  Possibly this was the best part of the book, but it still ends up too thin.<br />The Barrens had lots of potential.  It could have been a great suspense novel or a great book about the psychology of twins or a great book about relationships, but the Joyce Carol Oates seemed to have wanted it to be all of these things.  The result is that it ends up being none of these things.<br />I was not convinced by the main character's motivation for being obessesed with solving crimes that involved victims that he didn't even know.  I was bored to tears with the killer's nutty rants punishing women.  They don't contribute anything to the book and as a result end up bloating it further.  I was somewhat interested in how Matt's marriage to a social climbing wife was falling apart as a result of this obession, but this isn't well developed.  <br />Over all, The Barrens offers little to most readers, because none will be fully satisfied with any part of this book.  I slogged through this book in two days, but only because I wanted to hurry up and get it over with (because I detest leaving a book unfinished and I kept hoping that it would redeem itself at some point).	2003-03-27
US	49782890	RPSDA59ON6L3Z	0451191145	604964480	Atlas Shrugged	Books	2	23	43	N	N	Unoriginal, Bloated, Short-sighted	In writing a review of Ayn (pronounced like 'mine') Rand's Atlas Shrugged, one almost feels compelled to write two reviews.  Certainly, after an 1100+ page tome, a reviewer should say something about the quality of the book as pure novel.  So I will.<br />Atlas Shrugged is Bloated, with a capital B.  In reading the book, it is clear that Ayn Rand had talent and could have written a marvelous novel.  It is also clear what she didn't have was an editor with any guts.  This book should have been only a third it's size.  The author would have been able to tell the same story and make the same philosophical points in that space.  Instead, the reader is treated to sililoques that go on for 50 or more pages and a seriously sluggardly pace of book.<br />Other problems with this novel were majorly shallow characters, highly unrealistic fictional world, and too much whining by the author over the characters she clearly didn't like.<br />As for the philosophy that is supposed to be expounded in this book, there are many and varying opinions about it.  Mine is that it is evil.  I am not an educated philosopher (incidentally, niether was Ayn Rand) but I can easily write that any philosophy that purports it an evil for a mother to feed her child out of duty, rather than buy a hat that she wants, is evil (for more on this read the radio address near the end of the book).  Even that aside, her work is hardly original.  Any serious book on various schools of philosophy would clear up that misconception.  And, her ideas are extremely short-sighted.  She takes no account of what would happen in society if ALL seemingly altruistic endeavors stopped.<br />Ayn Rand is also a coward.  In Atlas Shrugged, she creates a Utopian world where she can manipulate everything to create the outcome that she wants.  The fact is, this world is CREATED.  By using the tool of a novel, she does not have to make her philosophy work in the real world.  In her book all of the 'good guys' are beautiful, hyper-intellectual, rich, and super-moral according to their own standards, they never allow their emotions to take control of them, ever.  All of the 'bad guys' are ugly, stupid, moochers, who are running around ruining the world with their over-emotionalism.  No one in this book has children - any reader who has children will appreciate how different that makes things.  I just can't help think it cowardly for Ayn Rand to have created this perfect situation to put out her philosophy, especially since the situation that she creates is sooo contrived.  <br />Ayn Rand was not a philosopher.  Because of her insistence in repeating the same message over and over to her readers, she ends up not being a good novelist, either.  Read her book only if you feel that you 'should' in order gain a broader knowledge of what is out there in the world.  <br />For those interested in more information about Ayn Rand there are many biographies in print that you can find at Amazon.  Some love her and some hate her, but you should probably read some stuff about her personal life (way juicier that her books) before you seriously consider hopping on her philisophical-wagon.	2003-03-26
US	49782890	R12JW2258NELEI	0375756981	583942750	The Vagina Monologues: The V-Day Edition	Books	2	132	161	N	N	Misses the mark	I bought The Vagina Monologues prepared to be wowed, moved, and forever changed.  After all, isn't that what happens to every woman who reads The Vagina Monologues?  Well, not for me.<br />The first problem that I had with this book is that it simply doesn't work well as a book.  I didn't laugh.  I didn't cry.  I didn't anything.  The monologues are written as performance pieces and simply don't stand up without the performance.  It isn't their fault, just the nature of the thing.  As a sidenote; I was able to see the monologues sometime late, which really brought home the point to me - it needs women to make it come alive.<br />The second problem that I had with The Vagina Monologues was that I felt it missed the mark.  As with so much feminist literature it mixes up freeing women/relieving oppression with a sort of 'no holds barred' abandonment of any type of morality.  As a result, I have very mixed feelings about the monologues.  I feel some are very important and need to be heard by more people (such as the monologue which illustrates why rape as a tactic of systematic warfare is a very bad idea).  That monologue (for me) speaks to the idea of acknowledging women's suffering and seeking to do something to stop it.  On the other hand, I felt that some of the monologues were in very bad taste that borders on criminal.  I'm thinking specifically of a monologue which details how a grown woman makes love (I call it molests) a thirteen year old girl.  I'm sorry if I seem too conservative for the times, but I don't see how it is liberating to women to be commiting pedophelia upon them.  <br />Which brings me to another point about The Vagina Monologues.  The author's message of freeing women from the bonds of oppression gets all mixed up with a 'lesbians are good' message.  Regardless of whether lesbians are or are not good, I feel that this muddies the waters in this book considerably.  After all, if the thirteen year old girl that I mentioned in the last paragraph had been involved with a grown man, we'd all be howling from the rooftops.<br />In summary, I feel that The Vagina Monologues have lots of potential but suffer from a clear definition of mission.  The book plays fairly badly as well.  Read the Vagina Monologues if you wish, better yet, attend a performance.  Be prepared, however, to hold yourself back from being swept into the popular tide of thought so that you may think and judge critically, for yourself, what you find.	2003-03-11
US	49782890	R2UWMV7D8PW6IZ	1564550818	988578464	Warming the Stone Child (Lighthouse Treasury)	Books	5	116	118	N	N	Special Gifts	I got Warming the Stone Child after reading Women Who Run With the Wolves (another great title by Clarissa Pinkola Estes).  It is really superb.<br />The author address the unique pain that accompanies being an unmothered child.  She shows how this pain, left undealt with, can affect us for a lifetime.  She also acknowledges those many people who have felt that while they were not physically abandoned, they were still unmothered (something our culture has been slow to do).<br />Using archetypal myths and storytelling the author helps us to first identify ourselves within the myths - and then identify coping mechanisms that we can take for ourselves out of the myths.  A really nice addition, she also helps us to identify the special and unique gifts that come out of being an unmothered child.  Specifically, and often referenced on the tape, is the gift of powerful intuition.  The author speaks to those who, through the pain of their upbringing, developed a highly sensitive trouble or 'BS' monitor.  I believe many women will find tons to identify with this in themselves.<br />The audio tape is read by the author, which makes it nice because it feels more like she's talking to you than reading from her book.  I listened to this in the car one night going somewhere alone.  In the darkness, alone, it had a very etherial feeling.  I would definitely recommend this tape to anyone who has been abandoned or has felt somehow unmothered.	2003-03-11
US	49782890	R382A086OK177V	1564781674	918720743	Heartbreak Hotel (American Literature (Dalkey Archive))	Books	4	9	10	N	N	Insightful	Heartbreak Hotel is the story of women.  Set around a group of women living and working together in the ultimate feminist museum, The Museum of the Revolution, Heartbreak Hotel shows how women are still struggling to gain a balance with identity, culture, and feminism in the post feminist movement era.<br />When one of their own is struck down in a hit and run motor cycle accident, the women of Heartbreak Hotel suddenly come under attack by the town government who wants to shut them down.  The story is set mainly around these women holing up together and dealing with this 'attack'.  These scenes are interesting as they present the women of Heartbreak Hotel working togehter, playing together, and fight together (and with each other).<br />The women themselves bring to mind Jungian archetypes.  You get to meet an ex-nun (who may have left the monastery in body, but not necessarily in spirit), an ex-cop whose been thrown off the force and is very busy being pissed with everyone around her, a language genius who thinks in seven languages at a time, a woman so comfortable with her sexuality that she has little care for who hears her vibrator running, a wife/mother on the run from her family who is ate up with guilt for abandoning her husband and children, and a hunchback woman named Quasi (no kidding) who says not a word, but brings them all together.<br />This book is really great and often funny.  There are many insights into the conflicting emotions that women have about themselves, other women, and the world around them.  While the feminist movement may be beyond it's prime, from this book it is clear that there is much to be done, and that most of it needs to take place not within society, but within the hearts and minds of women.<br />Which brings me to the one point that I didn't like about this book.  Like so much feminist literature, the author of Heartbreak Hotel seems to take the line that women should be accountable only to themselves.  That what a woman wants, is what a woman should have, regardless of whether it is right or wrong, regardless of what her responsibilities are, be damned who gets hurt.  <br />While I want women to be liberated from our patriarchal society, I just can't agree with that.  Wrong will still be wrong. And as unpopular as it is to say in this day and age, people (women included) have responsibilities that need to be fulfilled whether they like it or not, whether it feels good or not.  When this is recognized by the broader feminist culture is when feminism will move from it's current stage (rebellious teenager) to where it can be (glorious, mature womanhood).	2003-03-11
US	49782890	RDBA9FWEOKFA7	0380977761	418035057	Abraham: A Journey to the Heart of Three Faiths	Books	2	18	19	N	N	Basically worthless	This book is, unfortunately, basically worthless.  While it's thesis is promising, the author does a poor job of developing it. Rather most of his time is spent in polemics about how much he wishes the three faiths could 'just get along'.<br />While the author might be forgiven for this obviously well intentioned desire, there are worse problems with the book than that.  Many, many of his assertions about Christian dogma are blatantly untrue - something he should have known with a minimum of study on the subject.  One that comes to my mind is the assertion that Jesus never claims his divinity.  As most Christians know, that is blatantly untrue.  Pick up the gospel of John sometime.<br />While I cannot claim to know much about Judaism or Islam, I must assume that the author made similar mistakes with his assertions about those religions, given his many mistakes with VERY basic Christian dogma.  The reader has to assume that one of two things is wrong with this author:1.he was too lazy to do even the most basic of homework before setting out on his trip or 2.he was trying to portray one of the three religions in a better light than the other two.  I don't know enough about Islam or Judaism to guess which of those two problems this book suffers from.  The larger point is that if this book suffers from major errors on basics than I feel no choice but to dismiss it's assertions as a whole.<br />If there is anything of value in this book, it is not the Abrahamic historys, but the author's personal struggle to come to some kind of understanding of them.  As a personal journal/travel logue this book does have a bit to offer.  You get a true feeling of the tension in Jersualem and it's surrounding areas as you read about the author interviewing a 'firebrand' Islamic minister, being escorted by four armed guards into a sacred tomb, and suddenly finding himself alone and without transportation in the middle of a war zone.  If this sort of travel adventure interests you, you may like this book.  If you are looking for a book about Abrahamic history, then leave this one be.  There are plenty of good books, both from varying religous and secular sources, on the subject not to have to spend time sifting through the truth and untruth in this little volume.u may like this book.  If you are looking for a book about Abrahamic history, then leave this one be.  There are plenty of good books, both from varying religous and secular sources, on the subject not to have to spend time sifting through the truth and untruth in this little volume.	2003-03-11
US	49782890	R2L34USRMAGRH7	067168390X	34918879	Lonesome Dove	Books	5	1	1	N	N	There is nothing not to like	Lonesome Dove is an amazing epic masterpiece.  It transends genre or pop fiction status.  Many people have criticized this book for being hackneyed and typical of all western fiction.  The part that I think that most people don't understand is that this book isn't about the west.  This book is about people.  Lonesome Dove explores how people face hardship, brutatilty, illness, death, and even other's expectations.  The author treats us to watching the bond formed between men through long comraderie (you will see the word 'companero' often in this book), mutual struggle, and loss of innocence.  McMurtry does a stunning good job of exploring the hearts of the women in this book.  They are drawn with not just beauty, but with brutal and shocking honesty.  Women readers will be surprised at how a male author understands the psyche and coping mechanisms of females.<br />Aside from all of the amazing things about Lonesome Dove that won it the Pulitzer Prize, Lonesome Dove is a thoroughly enjoyable read.  There was not one of the 945 pages that I didn't enjoy.  The characters are well formed.  You will love Gus and Newt, get frustrated with Call, and your heart will just break for Lorena. Their struggles and disappointments will reach you as little else in fiction does.<br />The setting(s) in this book are stunning.  McMurtry draws amazing pictures of the the Rio Grande, the Texas panhandle, the American praire, old western saloons (and whorehouses), and many other places.  While some readers will find the lack of dialogue in some places frustrating, I found the descriptions to be a treat. Having never been west to see any of these places, I felt truely transported.  <br />Anyone who hasn't read this book and enjoys good fiction should read Lonesome Dove - now.  Just commit yourself to reading the first 50 pages.  After that, you won't be able to put it down.  For myself, I stayed up past midnight with this book every night for a week.  If I have any complaint about this book at all, it is that it was so good, I am afraid I will never be able to enjoy any other western fiction again.	2003-02-24
US	49782890	R35IAMCAJ2NSIA	0451526562	365726027	A Tale of Two Cities (Signet Classics)	Books	5	27	29	N	N	Masterful Work of Literature	There is so much to say about A Tale of Two Cities that one hardly knows where to begin.  The scene of our book is the French Revolution.  It is a time in history when the french peasants, horrifically treated by the nobility, revolted and caused what is known as 'the terrors'.  It is a time when people can be accused in secret, tried summarily, and then tortured and beheaded.  Many, many people were beheaded on a daily basis, sixty, or more, at a time.<br />A Tale of Two Cities takes this story up by beginning with the story of Dr. Manette, who has spent fifteen years as a secret prisoner in a tower of the Bastille.  He is rescued by an old servant, Monsieur Defarge, who turns him over to his daughter Lucie.  Lucie, who has always thought her father dead, takes care of her mentally damaged father and helps restore him to his health and sanity.<br />We also meet Charles Darnay, who Lucie eventually comes to love  and marry.  Turns out, unfortunately, that Charles is actually living in England under and assumed name, because he is really a french nobleman, much hated in his mother country.  When Charles is called back to Paris to clear the name of an old servant he is imprisoned.  Much of the story is then spent in the effort to get Charles out of prison, and his family safely out of Paris.<br />The story is too complicated and wonderfully intricate to describe in full here.  There are many other characters which are all important.  For those who loves suspence, A Tale of Two Cities holds many surprises and will keep you wondering the entire time.  There are loves unrequitted, acts of horror, deep sadnesses, and acts of perfect heroism.  This story will bring tears to your eyes.<br />As a piece of literature, A Tale of Two Cities is unsurpassed.  The writing is beautiful!  This book begins and ends with two of the most famous lines in all of literature.  The words are truely poetic.  The prose is full, deep, and perfectly moody.  Dickens does an excellent job of painting not just the scenes for us, but the feel of the time.  He makes you experience the weight of the drudgery the peasants experienced, the horror of the terrors, the grief of the mourner, and the triumph of the human spirit.  Read this book, you cannot be disappointed.ting not just the scenes for us, but the feel of the time.  He makes you experience the weight of the drudgery the peasants experienced, the horror of the terrors, the grief of the mourner, and the triumph of the human spirit.  Read this book, you cannot be disappointed.	2003-02-21
US	49782890	R32B3HZ898EROD	0451170822	905968185	Houses without Doors (Signet)	Books	5	6	8	N	N	Great short stories, very creepy mood	Houses Without Doors presents short stories with incredibly creepy moods.  Their creepiness comes not from grotesqueness, but rather, from the very normalcy of the settings that horrid things take place in.  You aren't transported to some otherwordly place, rather the terror is brought straight into your personal living space.<br />Each story has it's own focus, much having to do with the type of horror that children find themselves confronting - and even perpetrating.  Those who like Stephen King's child-type characters may also enjoy these.  The stories are eerie in their familiarity, but work more on a psychlogical/emotional level than they do through plot.  Many of the stories are non-linear, a tool that the author uses to great effect.  Not only does it add to the moodiness of the story, it also notches up the emotions that the characters seem to feel.  Readers who enjoy non-linear story telling will definetely enjoy this book.  Those who prefer a plot-heavy and/or super-suspenseful type book may not like it as well.<br />Overall excellent stories, frightening characters, and perfect horror mood.  Definetely a book well worth the money.	2003-02-15
US	49782890	R16L4RWZGH081L	0684868768	11617672	Emergence: The Connected Lives of Ants, Brains, Cities, and Software	Books	3	7	7	N	N	Acceptable Introduction	Those looking for an easy to understand introduction to the concept of emergence will find what they are looking for in this book.  The examples of how; ant colonies, cities, software, and perhaps even the human embryonic cell use 'bottoms-up' intelligence to create higher order results, are clearly explained and easy to understand.  Even the most uneducated lay person will have little trouble following the logic.  The writing style is conversational and moves along easily.  Overall, a pretty decent beginning to this subject for the wholly uninitiated.<br />Potential readers should be aware of some other points as well, though.  1.The author seems to make large leaps of logic to reach the conclusions that he seeks, sometimes using perhaps deceitful tactics (ex. in the beginning of the book a picture of the human brain is shown next to the city of Hamburg, which happens to have a similiar shape - the reader gets the feeling that the author wants us to believe this is so due to emergence, rather than chance, never mind that most cities do not resemble a human brain) 2.While the examples in the book are clear and do a lot to help the reader understand emergence, the author keeps repeating them over and over again.  Really, the book could have been half it's length and held the same content.  3.There is a lack of more in-depth material in the second half of this book.  It would have been nice if the author could have built upon his good beginning by covering more ground.  One wonders if he didn't think his readers too stupid to handle it.<br />Still, overall, an acceptable introduction.  Some may find it an interesting curiosity and enjoy it on that basis.  Those looking for more information, or who already know anything about emergence should get a different book.	2003-02-15
US	49782890	R31983I0FM3QJA	0762707496	603487506	Camping Made Easy (Made Easy Series)	Books	5	24	24	N	N	Excellent book for starters or the experienced	Camping Made Easy is an excellent manual for all of those who are interested in camping, but don't know how to get started.  The author outlines practically every aspect of camping that you can think of, including: equipment (with great buying tips), types of camping spaces, cooking and food in various situations, backpacking, hiking, biking, canoeing, wildlife watching, and fishing.  There is also lots of really great information about camping (and related activities) with your kids, something that I think most readers will appreciate. I can't think of any questions that you will have that will go unanswered with this book.<br />The author discusses the basic how-to's of each activity, gives great suggestions for figuring out what kind of equipment you do (and don't) need, offers some suggestions on howt to aquire equipment on a budget, and how to squeeze the most fun out of your trip.  He even helps with organizational ideas for storing and caring for your equipment, including his own packing lists.<br />Experienced campers will find lots of neat tips for making camping life a little easier.  For example; if you have ever struggled with a slippery sleeping pad under your bag, try applying some glue or tent sealant to the pad.  After it dries, you will have instant traction!<br />I highly recommend Camping Made Easy.  The book is highly useful, incredibly readable, and even funny at times as the author recounts his own experiences in the wild.  If nothing else, the menus offered for camp eating will certainly stir a hunger!	2003-02-09
US	49782890	R11VTS5LQPCA5C	0156870118	714437196	Surprised by Joy: The Shape of My Early Life	Books	4	5	7	N	N	Strikingly honest description	As many have noted, there are parts of this book that tend to drag a bit and are less than gripping.  These parts, found mostly in the middle chapters, are the most important descriptions that Lewis gives us in explanation of his conversion.  These chapters methodically, if somewhat dryly, layout the thought patterns that Lewis went through in his various stages philosophy.  They are the equation of how he got from A to B (including the detours that he took to C, G, and F).  If the reader will force himself to read them slowly and methodically, he/she will be rewarded with a much deeper understanding than without.<br />On the whole, Lewis's account of his conversion is raw and honest.  He spares himself no punches in describing his own arrogance and 'priggishness'.  The author is upfront in admitting that his memory may be flawed on some items.  Some readers may be struck at the author's deep humility at always portraying everyone in his story in the best possible of lights, regardless of any 'deservedness'.<br />For sheer entertainment value, I found his descriptions of his early childhood, his relationship with his brother and father, and his home and surroundings quite charming.  Having never been to Britain, I felt that I was treated to a slice of life I will likely never experience the likes of.  His accounts of his life at Wyvern (school) should give all parents pause in considering their own children's education, both academic and social.  If there is an \\"Ah, ha!\\" moment in this book, for me it is near the end where Lewis proposes that could we (as humans) strip God of all his powers to 'punish' us, that we should still worship and adore, simply because God was God - not because we could be punished (sent to Hell) for doing otherwise.  Indeed, Lewis makes clear that Hell is not about geography, but about separation from God, separation from God being the definition of the nature of Hell.<br />If I have any complaints about this book, it is only one, and is perhaps forgiveable.  I was sorely disappointed that Lewis did not include an account of his becoming Christian.  While Lewis explains that he felt still too close to explain it, I felt disappointed in some measure.  Still, this does not detract from what the book does have to offer, which is quite a lot.  There are lessons to be learned and I have little doubt that I will aquire new perspectives upon successive re-readings.	2003-02-09
US	49782890	R14KAYADS39E0D	140003065X	366389334	A Fine Balance	Books	4	12	13	N	N	Minus one for publishing error	The only reason that I didn't give this book all five stars is that there is a place, approximately 3/4 of the way into the book where part of the book is missing and part of an earlier chapter appears to have been mistakenly inserted in it's place.  The edition is the paperback First Vintage International Edition, March 1997.  So for those considering purchasing, please be aware of what edition you are getting.<br />As for the novel itself, I found it superb.  I have never before read anything about India and didn't know quite what to expect.  What I found was a story that creates India in it's full beautiful, tragic detail.  In A Fine Balance, the reader is introduced to four characters.  Om and Ishvar, from the caste of untouchables, have caste off their inherited roles as cobblers to become tailors and seek their fortune in the city.  Their story illustrates the horror of the caste system and the daily reality that the untouchables live.  Dina Dalal, a widow struggling to maintain independance from a domineering brother and hold onto her apartment, a precious commodity in a severely over-crowded city, fights daily to make enough money by hiring the tailors and stay ahead of the landlord - who wants to evict her and rent the apartment at a much higher rate than she pays.  Dina's struggle is that of so many people in India at the time, trying desperately to find just a few feet in which to survive.  For Dina, this struggle is made worse by the fact that she is a woman in a society that treats women as little more than chattel.  Finally, there is Maneck, a college student come to the city to study and living as a boarder with Dina Dalal.  Maneck comes from a beautiful mountain village and has, until now, lead a fairly sheltered life.  The horrors of the city, and India in the 60's and 60's try his soul and burden him with hopelessness.<br />Their story is compelling, horrific, and heartbraking. They are brave, even when broken.  Their lives demostrate the incredible capacity of humans to live, love, laugh, and ultimately to just keep going. They are the India created by Indira Ghandi.  Those who enjoy compelling drama will love this book, though it isn't for those who need to feel uplifted or require a happy ending.  Many readers will find this to be a rich, if shocking, introduction to the India of it's time.<br />I was fully impressed with this novel.  I had expected that it might be a challenging read for me, having been compeletely unfamiliar with anything Indian, but I was pleasantly surprised.  The novel is truely a page turner.  It kept me up at night thinking about how these people lived, and wondering if I could have survived.	2003-01-27
US	49782890	R2POTQ4XGO68LA	0517012391	257613214	Weaveworld	Books	5	2	3	N	N	A surprising epic	Weaveworld is the story of a magical people, called the Seerkind, who have woven their entire world, called The Fugue, into a rug in order to hide from something that was wiping out their entire world, this thing being the Scourge.  No one knew what the Scourge was, only that they must get away from it before they all ceased to exhist.  Guardians are appointed to watch over the rug, called The Weave, and all of the Seerkind go to sleep.<br />After a long time in the human world, called The Kingdom, all of the guardians eventually die off.  After the weave is removed from the home of the last guardian Cal, a human, called Cukoos by the Seerkind, quite accidentally falls onto the weave and enters the Fugue - just for a moment.  The bliss that Cal experiences in the Fugue leaves him lonely and despondent for what he believes to be paradise found, then lost again.<br />Cal doesn't have long to brew in his despondency, however, before he meets a few more interesting characters.  First, there is Suzanna, the granddaughter of the last Guardian of the Weave.  Together, Suzanna and Cal become the main force for protecting the Weave from the final two characters of importance - Shadwell, a 'Cukoo' salesman with a menevolant spirit who wants only to gain the world and Immaculota, a Seerkind witch who was thrown out of the Fugue before the weaving for causing trouble - ie.trying to rule the Fugue.  Immaculota and Shadwell also want the weave.  Shadwell wants to sell the weave to rich international buyers for huge profit.  Immaculota simply wants to destroy the Fugue and gain revenge upon all of those who humiliated and exiled her to the world of the Cukoos.<br />Wrapped up in all of this is a story of complex love, never forgetting, the power of the imagination, and the human being's unbelievable capacity for both hatred and forgiveness.  This is not light reading.  I was truly impressed, whilst still completely entertained.<br />Though I have tried to lay out the basic plot, as with any epic, this one is complex and involves many, many twists along the way. I found the book to be thoroughly engrossing, though I am not normally much of a fantasy fan.  This book almost belongs in it's own genre of fantasy/horror.  It has all of the darkness of a classic Stephen King and much of the epic of Tolkien's Lord of the Rings.	2003-01-20
US	49782890	R2JMCYBM9CWMZX	0062700251	4993104	Bulfinch's Mythology: The Age of the Fable, The Age of Chivalry, Legends of	Books	5	27	27	N	N	Excellent new edition	This new edition of the classic Bulfinch's Mythology is excellent.  It has retained all of Bulfinch's old texts and introductions to myths and their histories, but it has also added some new introductory material.  This material, much having to do with Bulfinch's own life and education helps to bring light into the context for which Bulfinch was writing.  For example, did you know that Bulfinch originally began writing mythology pieces for magazine entertainment?  There is also much information in the new introductions about Bulfinch's education and the place that he held (or rather, didn't hold) within Boston's then extremely rigid social strata.  The editor also provides an interesting look at why Bulfinch told the myths in the way he did and compares the sources that Bulfinch used to those of his contemporaries (Hawthorne, for example).  It really is very interesting reading.<br />Of course, this edition of Bulfinch's mythology still contains all of the wonderful myths that our society has come to know through this book, along with Bulfinch's original introductions to each chapter.  <br />The book is large and heavy, therefore not a great traveling companion.  Still, it more than makes up for it with content.  If you keep this book out on your shelf and read a small bit of myth every day, you will never be bored or lack for reading material again.	2003-01-20
US	49782890	R2Z8GTZWKCHJO4	0553579754	600228327	Fear Nothing	Books	4	33	33	N	N	Entertaining, good characters	As a long time Dean Koontz fan, I can attest to the fact that he can be very hit or miss.  While I wouldn't necessarily call Fear Nothing a total hit/blockbuster, it was one of the best Koontz that I have read in a while.  Those familiar with Koontz, but leery of his irregularity will not be disappointed with this novel.<br />I won't bother going through the plot again, as so many other reviewers have done quite well.  I will just say that the plot was sufficiently suspenseful to keep me turning pages and happily entertained.  The characters in this book, though, are really the best parts.  Christopher Snow, a man with a serious disease that makes him deathly allergic to light is not only sweet, but funny as well.  His friend Bobby, the coolest of all possible surfer dudes, is hysterical and philisophical at the same time.  You really won't be able to help liking these characters.<br />Unlike in some other novels, Koontz maintains his talent for strong description and backstory, without getting into long-winded tangents that put readers to sleep.  <br />Overall, I say Fear Nothing was quite fun, entertaining, and a pleasure to read.  I cannot wait to get my hands on a copy of Seize the Night, the next book in the Christoper Snow saga.  I highly recommend this book to all who enjoy suspenseful reading and likable, funny characters.	2003-01-08
US	49782890	R2RFYSKI3K2XW3	0316666343	784206304	The Lovely Bones	Books	2	2	3	N	N	Sebold's Rambling Psychotherapy	I very much wanted to read The Lovely Bones when I heard about it, because I thought that the concept of a story being told from the point of view of a dead character watching from heaven was an intriguing narrative tool.  I still think that it probably is an interesting tool, but Sebold fails to take advantage of it here.<br />As many readers probably know, from the author's other publication, Alice Sebold was a victim of rape during her teenage years.  The Lovely Bones reads like Sebold simply tooled up her journal entries, added in some fictional out of body (or is it 'in someone else's body'?) experience, and convinced someone to publish it.  The book has basically no plot, which is where it fails on the narratives.  The author fails to define a problem, let alone set about solving it.  The book instead rambles on in somewhat this fashion, from the main character's point of view:I was raped and murdered, bummer.  My family is having a terrible time getting over it, big bummer.  They aren't going to catch my killer, major bummer.  I just fell down from heaven and possesed another person's body (ala Patrick Swayze in Ghost) and had sex with a guy, something I didn't get to do before I died, cool.  The End.<br />The entire book reads like the author was self administering psychotherapy.  Oh, look what happened to me and my family!  Isn't it awful? While it is true that there is something compelling about this book from a voyeristic point of view (the only reason that it got 2 stars), it basically doesn't live up to it's promise.  Unless a reader enjoys feeling like a voyer while watching this family go through tons of pain, they aren't likely to enjoy this book.  While I, and I'm sure all readers, sympathize with Miss Sebold's horrible expereince, it certainly doesn't make good fiction.<br />Alice Sebold promises to be a good writer, but she needs to stop trying so hard to be brilliant and different and try working a little more at the basics of plot.  Those familiar with the book We Were the Mulvaneys by Joyce Carol Oates, have seen this mistake before.	2003-01-02
US	49782890	R26WKP915XD03V	0066212995	411648778	Sleepyhead	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Likeable characters, great dialogue	Sleepyhead, a serial killer/rogue cop novel gives a new twist on the old plot.  The killings are accidental!  This particular brand of nut doesn't want his victims dead, he just wants to induce a stroke so that his victim ends up completely aware mentally and unable to move a single muscle.  Locked-in syndrome. <br />As is typical, our cop hero is haunted by mistakes of cases past gone.  He likes to drink, sometimes too much, though he has given up cigarrettes, and that is at least original.  Our villian is brilliant and knows it, also typical.  Still, there is a lot that isn't typical in this story.  Our copper ends up falling for a woman who is fortyish and less than perfect, and all may not end up happily ever after.  Allison, a victim of the locked-in sydrome, contributes her 'thoughts' on the subject at the beginning of every chapter, thoughts which are often hysterical and very welcome to the reader in need of a laugh.<br />I thoroughly enjoyed this book and recommend it to anyone who enjoys the crime novel sort of thing.  Between the suspense of the hero and villian catting around with each other, there is a lot of dark humor in this novel to keep things fun.  Best of all, I was actually surprised at the ending, something that rarely happens these days for me.  That alone was worth the purchase price alone.	2002-12-30
US	49782890	R3NSV5LBLYXET4	0380977788	425362981	Coraline	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Good quick fun	Coraline is the story of a girl who finds a sort of 'parallel universe' behind a bricked-off door in her family's new apartment.  Like all good parallel universes, there are non-equivalent copies of most everything from her own world.  This universe is like her apartment, except that everything in run down and nasty.  In her normal world, Coraline has a neighbor in the upstairs apartment who enjoys playing with pet mice.  In her parallel world, the man in the upstairs apartment is made of rats.  While there are many things, written in wonderfully creepy detail, for you to discover about the parallel world that Coraline discovers, perhaps the best of all is her 'Other Mother' who is like her own mother, but has buttons for eyes, wants to sew buttons onto Coraline's eyes, and is holding Coraline's real parents hostage.  Predictably, but not unsatisfyingly, Coraline's mission becomes to find and rescue her parents from the wicked 'Other Mother'.<br />Written for young adults, Coraline, is a thoroughly enjoyable story.  It is detailed enough to have some weight, creepy enough to feel original for a YA novel, and quick enough to hold the interest even of non-YA readers who enjoy a bit of fun.  Being a non-YA reader myself, I liked it quite a lot.  In fact, I think I read it in about 2-3 hours.  Those who enjoy the Harry Potter series will likely enjoy this novel as well.<br />For those considering this novel for children, do know your child and perhaps read it yourself ahead of time.  Most children old enough to read this themselves will have no trouble, but younger ones may end up with nightmares about disembodied hands crawling through the grass if a parent or older sibling reads it to them.	2002-12-30
US	49782890	R332ZQCP3GD6V6	0553262505	826884658	A Wizard of Earthsea (The Earthsea Cycle, Book 1)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	We have seen the enemy, and it is us	I don't usually read sci/fantasy.  However, suffering from a cold and lacking any other easy reading material in the house, my husband handed his copy of The Wizard of Earthsea.  I didn't really think that I would like, but ended up pleasantly surprised.  The Wizard of Earthsea is basically the story of a young man with exceptional talent and an equal measure of stupid pride.  As you might expect, this stupid pride ends up getting the young man into trouble when he releases a 'something' from the underworld.  Of course, the young man is then forced to 'go on quest' to force the dark shadow back into the underworld.  In the end, the shadow ends up being himself and a valuable lesson is learned.<br />While I wouldn't call this original material or fabulous writing, it is still well worth your time.  The story is enjoyable and the characters likable.  Being ill when I read it, I was able to finish it in the course of a day.  This book would also make worthwhile reading for those who are young adults and not quite up to the challenge of The Lord of the Rings.	2002-12-23
US	49782890	R2YO3CXBVMDZTD	0684813637	747139631	John Adams	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Excellent treatment of potentially dry material	John Adams is the most impressive work of American revolutionary history/biography I have ever had the pleasure to read.  There is so much information contained in this volume, that I won't bother to list it all.  The author takes the facts of John Adam's life, blends it with his voluminous correspondence between himself, his wife Abigail, and many other figures of the revolution, and sets it against the events of the time.  The result is not only an intimate knowledge of the John Adams, but also a surprisingly broad view of the revolution and early American history.<br />There is so much to be impressed with this book, that I am not sure what I liked the best.  Reading the letters of John Adams, Abigail Adams, and Thomas Jefferson (among others) was a pleasure that alone made this book well worth its time and money.  What the author reveals about European history of the time and how it affected the new United States is also extremely interesting and may provide a point of view that many readers, myself included, had not considered beforehand.  There are many more things to like about this book, but I think the best element of all was the author's style of writing.  This book is so logically organized and well written, that it was nearly like reading a novel.  I have never completed 700 non-fiction pages so quickly.<br />I highly recommend this book not only to buffs of American history but also to those who are looking to cultivate an interest.  The reading is so pleasant and the information so dense that this book cannot fail to fascinate.	2002-12-23
US	49782890	R2ZPEMJQ7CWJTG	1891252089	847516026	Ashtanga Yoga: The Practice Manual	Books	5	26	26	N	N	The best Yoga book Ever	David Swenson's Ashtanga Yoga is the very best yoga book I have ever seen.  While there are other books out there that are good, this one is excellent.  The book is hard covered and seems to be very long wearing.  The spine is spiral bound and lays flat, which is excellent when you are trying to reference the book and go through your yoga practice at the same time.  The pictures are excellent and show as much as a book possibly could (of course a video or live instructor is always better).  Each pose is well described, with steps laid out clearly for getting into and out of the pose.  The book begins with a description of the principles of ashtanga yoga and then goes through the warm up, standing series, beginners series, and intermediate series.  It also includes several versions of a practice from 15 min, to 2 hours.  Even if you do not practice ashtanga yoga, this book is really an excellent reference for any yoga practicioner.  I highly recommend it.	2002-08-30
US	49782890	R2AIL8PHXEEBLY	0374129983	647099960	The Corrections	Books	5	4	7	N	N	Really Excellent	The Corrections is about a family with three grown children whose mother begs them all to come home for one last Christmas, before their increasingly demented father is checks out altogether.  While the premise of emotional twisting and turning within families, especially families dealing with an aging/demented parent, is interesting enough it is really the characters that shine through.  Each character in this drama is fully crafted, given their own lives/problems/personalities, and is felt with incredible authenticity.<br />We begin with Alfred, the somewhat demented patriarch suffering with parkinson's disease.  He's a stern, bitter, retired engineer who suffers delusions of [things] crawling up the walls.  Even in his demented state, though, he inspires fear in his adult children.  Alfred would seem an easy enough character to dislike, but don't count him out.  We glimpse a hidden side of him near the end of the book when his grown daughter learns that he left his job to protect her honor, without ever telling her, so that he could spare her shame.<br />Enid is the family matriarch, living within an unsatisfying marriage for over fifty years.  Now Enid finds herself confronted with an increasingly needy husband and all the problems that are attendant.  All Enid wants in the world is one last Christmas with her family at home, which just happens to be the thing that her family wants least in the world.<br />Gary, the oldest son, is perhaps depressed and certainly drinking too much.  Perhaps it's because of his stifling marriage to a woman who has little desire to be an adult herself, perhaps not.  Gary subscribes to a strict philosophy of materialism and persues this to it's logical conclusion.<br />Chip, the next Lambert child in line, has had a terrible time with adulthood.  He believes that the consumer society is to blame for many of the world's evils.  Unfortunately, he loses his chance at tenure because his morals don't extend to keeping his hands off of his students.<br />Denise, the youngest and only female Lambert child, is a divorced star chef who is having serious sexual identity issues.  Her relationships take her on a wild ride, which culminate with being caught by her girlfriend, with her girlfriend's husband.  And oh, her girlfriend's husband is also her boss and didn't know that Denise had been sleeping with his wife.<br />The Corrections is a very well written story that was just a pleasure to read.  There are dark moments that will make you cry. There are moments that will make you dread the day that you have to deal with your aging parents.  There is also some truly hysterical moments that will crack you up.  Mostly, though, you will identitfy with the stupid things that we all do sometimes, despite knowing better.	2002-08-22
US	49782890	R30NLEQDF2D3D5	0375504397	237509158	Black House: A Novel	Books	2	2	5	N	N	I almost	gave this book only one star.  I was sooo disappointed. Stephen King and Peter Straub have both been favorites of mine for a very long time.  They are excellent writers and I typically devour their books in no time at all.  This one took me nearly two weeks to get through.  Much of that time was spent thinking about all of the other things that I would rather be reading.  If it had been any other author(s), I would have gone dumped the book 1/4 of the way through and gone on to something more enjoyable.  Because it was Stephen King and Peter Straub, I stayed the course, hoping desperately that it was going to get better.  It didn't.<br />Whereas The Talisman takes place almost entirely in The Territories (a wonderful fantasy world created by the authors), Black House spends only a tiny bit of space on The Territories.  Therein, I feel, lies one of the largest disappointments in this book.  The Territories are amazing and interesting, one of the best parts of The Talisman and should have been carried over into it's sequel.  <br />The primary bad guy, Burny, appears so relatively little in this book that I couldn't even muster up the care to hate him.  Our hero, Jack, is much less interesting as an adult than he was as a child.<br />The book was riddled with references to Stephen King's other books and movies.  Especially heavy, was the tie ins made to Stephen King's Dark Tower series (I admit, I'm not a fan of the Dark Tower).  In fact, Black House ends as if the whole book were just a chapter in the Dark Tower series.<br />Another problem that I had with this book was the writing style.  It was very heavy on narrative, which at times became downright boggy.  One of the most obnoxious aspects of the book was the narrator.  The narrator was given an active, almost sports commentator-like, voice.  We're rising away from this, descending onto that...Uck!  How annoying and distracting.<br />The only reason that I gave the book two stars instead of one, is that there is to be found in the book some interesting characters.  Henry Leyden, local blind guy and radio DJ is a wonderful and original character who lives on high sensory perception.  I would have loved to have seen him taken to The Territories.  I'm sure his response to the sensory input would have been unique.  Perhaps he even would have gotten his sight back and we might have enjoyed him seeing things for the first time.<br />The Thunder Five are also full of amusements.  A gang of five beer swiling, belly sagging, bikers who also happen to be college educated and more or less drug free always makes for interesting character dialogue.<br />Go ahead, read the book.  But I wouldn't spend any real money on it.  Luckily for me, I got my copy cheap through a book club.	2002-08-13
US	49782890	R2YFVR10UUCFPA	0892439106	994090851	The Essential Catholic Handbook: A Summary of Beliefs, Practices, and Prayers (Essential (Liguori))	Books	4	20	21	N	N	Excellent Starter	The Essential Catholic Handbook is an excellent starter book for all of those unfamiliar with the Catholic church and/or catholic doctrine.  The premise of catholic theology is presented in a very simple and brief format.  Then it is followed up with an excellent description of each of the seven sacraments.  Included in this book is a lovely catholic prayer guide and an immensely useful dictionary of catholic terms.  Finally, this book is made even more useful by being extensively referenced to the Catechism of the Catholic Church.  <br />My only complaint about this book is that in one place, where catholic obligations are covered, it is said that parents are obligated to have their children attend parochial school.  That is untrue.  Parents are required to provide education, academic and religious, to their children, but in whatever form they choose.<br />Because this is a beginners book, long time catholics may find little useful.  A fresh copy of the catechism would probably suit them better.  Teachers of religious education will find much usefulness in this volume.  Certainly this work will do much to dispel the many myths about the official teaching of the church that are prevalent both outside of the church and within our own religious ed. programs.  I urge RCIA directors to give or at least suggest this book to all in your program.<br />Some reviewers have complained that this book is too conservative.  It should be pointed out that there is not really such a thing as being conservative or not.  The church has it's beliefs and teachings.  There is a set of proscriptions about how the faithful should live their lives.  Because someone does not agree with them does not change anything.  Failing to abide the teachings of the church does not create something called liberal or new catholicism.  It simply means that you are failing to behave as a catholic in accordance with the teachings of the church.	2002-08-05
US	49782890	R3847UH50O9ZZR	0374525749	627065254	The Odyssey	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Excellent translation	Robert Fitzgerald's translation of Homer's Odyssey is superb.  The rhythm of the prose is maintained, the word choices are beautiful.  In every way, this translation remains a work of art. Yet, this translation also proves itself to be accessible to everyone.  Lovely, but quite easy to read.  It is no problem what-so-ever for the lay person to read and enjoy The Odyssey under this translation.<br />Job well done!	2002-08-05
US	49782890	R2S7ZEESZMMQA6	0385314698	279544605	The Sixteen Pleasures: A Novel	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Watch Me Become Venus	Ok, so maybe not Venus.  Our heroine, Margot, goes to Florence (where else?)to find some adventure before she becomes to old and timid to seek adventure.  She does no small piece of finding adventure, either.  Margot begins the story in one way, but through her experiences, becomes a transformed person.  She truly finds the Venus within.  The reader is brought along as witness.<br />First, she sleeps with an academic, who happens to be a cad, but at least amuses her for the moment.  There is a scene depicted in the book where the two are making love when Margot realizes that her girlfriend is in the room with them.  While Margot is trying to shoo her out behind her lovers back, her friend is directing Margot on how to move her body to give her lover more pleasure.  It is quite funny.<br />Next, she ends up becoming embroiled in an affair with a much older, married, Italian gentleman. While carrying on this affair, Margot is helping an order of nuns restore their library collection which has been ruined in a terrible flood.  During this restoration the abess brings to her attention a 16th century pornographic drawing collection, The Sixteen Pleasures, once order by the pope to be burned, now likely worth tons of money if authentic.  The abess very much would like to have the book, if authentic, sold so that the abbey could remain financially independant and therefore free from the tyrannical rule of the local bishop.<br />The tale of Margot's authenticating and selling the book stand interwoven with Morgot's affair.  Eventually Morgot finds that she has fallen in love, both with her lover and with the women in the abbey.  You must read the book to find out what choices she makes.<br />The tale reads like a wonderful cabernet wine.  It is rich with emotional complexity, real world problems, and struggles of conscience.  Interesting information about art restoration is craftily splashed into the story as well.<br />The only problem that I felt this book suffered was abit of heavy handed narration in the descriptions of Florence and some of the artworks.  Perhaps this might have been justified if Florence had been brought alive for me the same way that the Congo was in Barbara Kingsolvers The Poisonwood Bible.  Unfortunately, the descriptions remained flat description instead of word pictures and ended up simply giving the book a bogged down feeling now and again.	2002-08-03
US	49782890	RLSO87GXAQ5J4	0385503954	977000479	Atonement: A Novel	Books	4	2	4	N	N	What would happen if...	Anne of Green Gables lived in the real world?  She would be Briony Tallis, still as fanciful as ever, but now her actions have consequences.  That is what I thought of as I read this book.  Indeed thirteen year old Briony is also a budding writer, who takes extraordinary flights of imagination, and has incredible drama for everyday events in her life. Like Anne, Briony is also capable of summoning up outrage at the events in the world around her. <br />It is just this outrage which unintentionally sets off a terrible chain of events. Briony witnesses an episode between her sister, Cecilia and their childhood friend, Robbie.  This is followed up by more events, in the same day,  that Briony is too young to understand, plenty of childish imagination, and then one final horror in the late evening.  This sets the stage for an emotionally charged Briony to mistakenly identifying someone.<BR>The rest of the story follows the fallout of that one day.  <br />Atonement is a splendid story, told very much through the impressions of the characters rather than their actions.  This lends the novel an emotional immediacy that allows the reader to walk slowly through the narration and savour every bit.  We feel the lurking menace early on in the novel, the sickly sweet heat of the victorian home, the emotional cascades of the characters, the heat of surprise love making, and the horrors of war.<br />While I feel that this is a fine novel, there were things that I felt weren't really necessary.  The narration from the POV of Emily, Briony's mother, doesn't really add anything to the story. It shares no new information, nor is Emily a main character to the story.  It was, in my opinion, a waste of space.  I also felt that some plot points were a tiny bit weak (especially Robbie's conviction and Lola's marriage), however, this may be forgiven as the book is less about the plot lines than about the effect upon the characters.	2002-08-03
US	49782890	R2PRIUQEIAEQ29	0679728228	969362924	A Man for All Seasons: A Play in Two Acts	Books	5	52	54	N	N	Still My Favorite	A Man for All Seasons has long been my favorite, whether in written form, stage play, or motion picture.  The story is fairly simple, another angle on the drama of Henry VIII.  Sir Thomas More is a deeply religious man, much troubled by the king's break with Rome and the establishment of the Church of England, naming the king as head of the church (directly contravening the idea that Christ is ultimately head of the church, indeed, Catholics believe the church to espoused to Christ).  In an attempt to keep the peace, and his neck, More resigns his office and refuses to make any statement about the issue of the break with Rome or the king's divorce what-so-ever, even to his own wife. <BR> <BR>Unfortunately, it would appear that while the king doesn't want to follow the rules, he also doesn't want a bad conscience.  This requires him to get the 'blessing' of someone known to be reputable on the subject, so that his conscience may rest at ease.  By circumstance of who he is, More is chosen.  A document is drawn up in the Parliament, rather craftily, to which subjects of the king are required to swear.<br />Upon refusing to swear to this document More is thrown into jail. He will neither make a statement about his thoughts on the document, nor make explanation for refusing to swear.  In More's thinking, he has been forced to choose between his bodily life and his immortal soul.  Eventually More is tried and convicted of High Treason, carrying the sentence of death.<br />The play is wonderfully crafted and does an excellent job of being subtle and emotional at the same time.  It is the essence of a morality play.  When push comes to shove, and egos, life, inheritances are on the line, where will you fall?<br />Some criticize this play for not being historically accurate in some matters.  I toss these criticisms aside with two short arguements 1.In some matters, such as More's feelings and private dealings with the king, we will never know the historical truth.  2.Most important to remember, it is a play, not a history text.  It owes no wage to historical accuracy.<br />This play is a very easy read.  The language is simple enough.  My only suggestion is that those readers who are not Catholic may want to do a tiny bit of research about basic Catholic theology concerning marriage and divorce, in order to understand some of the motivations in the play.	2002-08-01
US	49782890	R1AUXVBGPKSOB3	0345434854	892229721	Raising Cain: Protecting the Emotional Life of Boys	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Boys have got it tough	Raising Cain is an excellent book that will provide much insight for parents, especially women, into the painful world of boyhood. The authors both worked at boys' schools for a period of time and developed the book out of their practices'.<br />The book depicts the emotionally stunting messages that boys receive about being told to 'grow up' 'toughen up' 'get over it' and 'don't be a sissy'.  The authors provide real evidence and example about how caustic these messages are to the souls of boys.<br />One of my favorite parts of the books deals with the tough time that boys have in school, just for being little boys.  The authors speak about the fact that boys do not develop an attention span as early as girls, and that they should not be punished for it.  Also mentioned is that little boys are high energy creatures who need to have more effort placed into directing their energies, rather than being punished for fidgeting.  I especially like the depictions of classes that start with recess, allowing boys to work off some energy so they can sit and concentrate.<br />One thing that I did miss in this book was a full discussion of the fact that so many boys are suffering with no father in their home, many with no father in their life, leaving only what they see around them and on television to be their male role models.  Because research has proven that the most important influence in a child's life is the same-sex parent, I think this was a bit of a strong omission.  Perhaps, though, the authors felt that the subject was too complicated or intense to fit into the whole of the book.  At any rate, what the book does contain is excellent and should be read by everyone, because everyone (even those who are single and/or childless) will be affected by the way that boys are brought up in our culture, whether you like it or not.	2002-08-01
US	49782890	R3OP4WIAKHGM9T	0822202905	826622434	Death of a Salesman	Books	5	2	2	N	N	What a surprise!	I read Arthur Miller's The Crucible when I was in high school.  While I didn't hate it, as many of my classmates at the time did, I really could live the rest of my life happily without ever reading it again.  So why, one might ask, did I pick up The Death of a Salesman in a used bookstore?  I don't know, but I'm so glad that I did!  I was totally surprised to find that I loved this play!  I have seen the play and liked it well enough, but reading makes it so powerful!<br />The Death of a Salesman, as many of you know, is the story of Willy Loman, a professional salesman.  The play actively shows his breakdown of his mental facilities, but also the breakdown of his spirit.  What happens when a man cannot face his failure?  What happens when a man has worked incredibly hard, simply for respect, only to be tossed out like refuse?  When your reality becomes the one thing that you cannot tolerate, what do you do?  What does your family do?<br />Those are the questions explored in The Death of a Salesman.  Arthur Miller's writing style is active and powerful.  Because The Death of a Salesman is a play, there is no narration, you are hit with the actions of the characters head on.<br />The Death of a Salesman is most powerful because eventually we will all face Willy Loman's position.  Perhaps not because we have failed, but simply because the tides of time go on, and our society treats people like a throw-away commodity.  Willy was once a powerful salesman for his company, yet in the end, he was shown the door.<br />If my review has not been glowing enough to stress that I believe everyone should read this play (which can easily be read in a few short hours), let me finish with a thought on space.  I don't have any.  That is, my home is tiny, and therefore almost all of the fiction books that I read are passed on to someone else, because I don't have room to store them.  The Death of a Salesman will not be passed on.  It will stay with me forever.	2002-07-31
US	49782890	R39NGIPHX6YTYS	0618260250	669379389	The Lord of the Rings	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Epic, the first and the best	I read The Lord of the Rings at the urging of my husband, who loves the series, because he couldn't conceive of anyone having lived to adulthood and not having read the series.  Well, he was right.  It is an amazing trilogy, not to be missed.  The epic story of wizards, drwarves, elves, hobbits, orcs, and ents (my favorite) draws the reader into a world of the author's making.<br />It is a far too large and complex tale to be described here.  In truth, it is so large it would probably take a reader several readings to fully devour it all.  I will say that, like most fantasy novels (because indeed this one began it all), The Lord of the Rings contains battles, magic, death, undeath, huge insects, and the ultimate battle of good and evil.  Unlike most fantasy novels, The Lord of the Rings features superb writing and a truly moral story.<br />The only two 'problems' that I had in reading this book were:<br />1.I am not, normally, a fan of fantasy writing.  Trying to read all three of the books straight through was a bit much for me.  I would recommend those not normally fantasy fans to read one book at a time, taking a break in between with something else.<br />2.I have the hardback edition of all three books in one volume.  It was a bit of a horse to hold onto, especially if you tend to carry books around or read in bed lying down.  I recommend getting the volumes individually.<br />See, tiny problems having nothing to do with the story.  Certainly, to be able to claim being well read, a person should read this book at least once.	2002-07-31
US	49782890	R2IY1SL89HJWED	0140801693	503128360	School is dead: An essay on alternatives in education (Penguin education specials)	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Why Schools Can't Work	Everett Reimer wrote a facinating important book about why schools can't work.  He speaks only briefly about the problems schools have in educating students (we all already know that), but rather talks about the societal problems inherent in having institutional schools.  He speaks about how schools give children an institutional mindset akin to what criminals get in prison.  Everett also speaks to the gargantuan waste of money that occurs within the school systems, at our expense.  Those who like the works of John Holt and John Taylor Gatto will find much to like her as well.<br />Please, if you can, read this book with an open mind.  It will really make you reconsider how you view childhood, education, and the effects of over programming our children.<br />Most fascinating about this book?  It was published in 1971!  The problems with schools aren't new, they just getting more new coverage.	2002-07-22
US	49782890	ROMCRWWAJAUC2	0062516582	943614953	Legacy of Luna: The Story of a Tree, a Woman and the Struggle to Save the Redwoods	Books	3	7	9	N	N	It's something to read.	Like most of the reviewers, I found Julia Butterfly's experience of sitting in the tree, Luna, for over two years quite amazing and inspiring.  What a powerful committment to make on the behalf of what one believes!  Unlike some reviewers, I just cannot believe that Ms. Hill sat in that tree for more than two years with the idea of becoming a celebrity.  There are easier ways.<br />Unfortunately, this book is written somewhat unevenly.  Much material is repeated throughout the book over and over.  Things that could have been exceedingly interesting were not brought fully to light (ex: how the platform was put together and held in the tree).  I think that while Ms. Hill is an ok writer, this book could have stood the polishing of a ghost writer.<br />One big disappointment that I had with this book, was the missed opportunity on Ms. Hill's part to say something really important about the environmental movement.  There is no good, solid fact-based information given about logging, environmental impact, government policy, or what can/should be done.  What a wasted opportunity!  When this book came out, everyone was interested and the environmental movement would have benefited a great deal from the publicity this could have brought to their specific issues.  Getting people excited about the environment and unified with Ms. Hill's tree sit is all fine, but if you don't back it up with information and a what-you-can do attitude, is entirely pointless.<br />So, if you want to be inspired by a story of a person's convictions - by all means read this book.  It's not terrible.<br />If you want motivation to go out and do something about the environment, contact your local Cooperative Extension Office.	2002-07-17
US	49782890	R18XYTMHWEDON9	0679781587	823326041	Memoirs of a Geisha: A Novel	Books	4	1	2	N	N	I stayed up all night	Memiors of a Geisha may be one of the best books that I've read in a long time.  It is such an epic sweep of events, trailing a girls life from early childhood, through her time as a geisha, and into her old age.  All of that done with tons of rich detailing, in only about 400 pages.  Wow!  I really loved this book.<br />Still, as others have mentioned in their reviews, there are problems.  A main problem is that the book is westernized.  As I was reading I had to continually remind myself that this book was full of Japanese people.  I just could not seem to set a picture of them as Japanese in my mind.<br />Another problem that I had with this book, is that while it is supposed to be representing how all of these women are oppressed by a male dominated culture, it shows only females doing the dominating.  While I am quite sure that there were men taking large doles from the geish houses somewhere, the author simply represents  the geisha houses as women using other women.  It can't be that simple.<br />Some have criticized this book for being overly simple in terms of the main character waiting to be rescued from her life of bondage by her (in my mind, white, I really could not get the Japanese images fixed in my mind) hero male, The Chairman.  I find this to be entirely believable, given the time that this book was set in.  <br />Which brings me to my final point about this book.  All during the reading I felt partly outraged.  Wondering, what is her problem?  Why does she not take the man, Nobu, who obviously loves her so much?  And why does she not understand her stronger position in the okiya after her adoption and start exerting some pressure for better living, like her rival Hatumomo had? Why was the author insisting on taking this book to such a cheap ending in the arms of The Chairman?  Why couldn't The Chairman at least have not been married?  Why did I like it so much?	2002-07-16
US	49782890	R3A8YJRJLM221M	0449215202	780469129	Hold On, Mr. President	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Funny, but drags	Hold On, Mr. President is a chronicle of Sam Donaldson's years as a reporter until 1987.  There is some coverage in the beginning of the book about how Donaldson got his start, which makes for interesting and sometimes amusing reading.  The book focuses heavily on his time covering former presidents Carter and Reagen. Much of the information given about his time with Carter is hysterical.  While a few funny quips are given over the Reagen administration, much focus is given to the apparent bumbling of Reagen's staff and Reagen's unwillingness to take control of things himself, resulting in many embarassing blunders by his adminstration.  The latter part of the book sums up Donaldson's thoughts about network news, his plans for the future, and covers briefly his personal life (including two divorces).<br />Unfortunately, this book really bogs down after the first few chapters.  The middle part of the book, until nearly the end, is a painfully detailed summary of many of Donaldson's experience covering the Washington Beat.  Perhaps it was more immediate for the telling, and therefore more interesting, when the book was written in 1987.  In the year 2002, it was simply too detailed to be anything but boring.<br />Still, this is a well written book, giving an insider's look at Washington, the presidency, and network news workings.  Of considerable interest is Donaldson's descriptions of the early days of ABC.	2002-07-15
US	49782890	R1IO83X5JKTM1N	0385494335	837058873	The Innocent: A Novel	Books	4	1	3	N	N	Good, but	I enjoyed reading The Innocent.  The setting is well drawn, the story was interesting, with just enough plot turns to keep things interesting.  This novel is a tad heavy on narrative, which works fine in this case, but isn't for those who like an extremely fast read.  Both the story and characters are rather subtle at times, a refreshing change of pace from much current fiction.<br />The only problem that I had with this novel is that it fails to convince me of motivation.  I just can't believe that the main character, Leonard (the innocent from the title) is as fully stupid as the author portrays him.  Most ten year olds would have been brighter than he seems.  Though I did enjoy his self discovery along the way.  <br />I was equally unconvinced that Maria (who helps Leonard lose his innocence) is as afraid of the German police as the author kept wanting us to believe.  I was so unconvinced, that I was sure that she was setting Leonard up somehow.<br />Still, this book is interesting to read.  It is a fairly unique story and worth the time for that alone.	2002-07-12
US	49782890	R2U3F5PHUODVI1	055334630X	399846892	Starting from Scratch: A Different Kind of Writers' Manual	Books	2	12	20	N	N	A really good hotdog floating in a vat of horrible chili	I found Rita Mae Brown's Starting from Scratch to be a huge disappointment.  Most of the information in the book has nothing to do with writing, but rather with Ms. Brown's personal politics, experiences, and life advice (having nothing to do with writing).  Dotted throughout the book are Ms. Brown's obviously left winged politics.  It isn't that they were left wing, I just could care less about her politics and found this to be a very inappropraite place for her to display them.  Her personal experience regarding her divorce, childhood, and the like are equally unnecessary and boring.  Worst of all, Ms. Brown exhorts us in her book to trust our readers, because they are smarter than we think they are, while telling us to eat right, don't do drugs, and get plenty of exercise.  Perhaps good advice, but in a writing manual?<br />Another annoying aspect of this book is its lack of coverage on most important writing points.  Character and plot are given a brush over.  Agents and markets are all but ignored.  A couple of literary forms, especially short fiction and non fiction, are given short shrift.  Other than a few good writing exercises (which can be gotten from any website), there is basically no writing advice at all in this book.<br /><br />The only reason I even gave this book two stars at all is that Ms. Brown does cover the subject of Latin, language development, and the reading necessary to a writer.  This information is invaluable.  If Ms. Brown could have controlled herself by staying on the subject matter, this book could have been one third its size and much better.  Certainly, it was her editor's job, which goes to show that at least two people failed with this book.<br />Lucky me, I only paid a couple of bucks at my local used book store.	2002-07-04
US	49782890	R2BMAZ3RFKLV1	0345392825	731711467	Reviving Ophelia: Saving the Selves of Adolescent Girls (Ballantine Reader's Circle)	Books	4	100	118	N	N	Excellent Beginning, but not the whole story	Reviving Ophelia is an excellent introduction to the victims that our children (all of our children, not just girls) have become to the consumer culture.  Ms. Pipher shares case studies of young female therapy clients, whose problems range from suicide attempts, to eating disorders, abuse homes/boyfriends, pregnancy and STDs, even self-mutilation.  She discusses how different parenting styles (both in terms of home situation ie.single parent, blended home, married parents and level of 'strictness') SEEM to help/hinder girls' development without making broad generalizations.  Also included is a very important discussion of how the mass culture affects these girls (waif models, older men and younger women pairings in movies, etc.).  Truly, it is a very eye-opening book for many people.  There are many issues raised that all parents need to understand.  I highly recommend that all parents of children read this book.<br />That being said, I think that there are some caveats.<br />1.The author is very obviously a liberal feminist.  Mostly, this is not a problem.  The exception comes from her discussion of how parents should teach their daughters about their sexuality and the amount of freedom that their daughters should have to explore and experiment.  Some parents will find this offensive.  I suggest that the rest of the book is good enough to ignore this.<br />2.While the author does a good job at raising the awareness of parents to these issues, she does nothing to help point parents in the direction of what to do.  Some readers who are used to being told what to do by 'experts' will have a problem with this. Personally, I find it refreshing.<br />I want to suggest that the reason that many of us look to experts for what to do, is that we have been socialized to look, even in adulthood, for an outside locus of control.  Most of us are afraid to think for ourselves and are convinced that we need someone to tell us how to do everything.  If you want proof of this just look at the number of parenting books on the market.    I'm sure that most of our grandmothers could not have conceived of needing a parenting book, let alone understood the number currently being published. All of this because we have been trained to look outside of ourselves for both value and guidance. <br />It is unfortunate, that the author seemed to miss this point.  Our girls are indeed in what she calls a girl-poisoning culture.  However, if we could shift where we as adults look for guidance to ourselves and then teach our children to do the same, nothing in the mass media/culture could touch them at all.<br />If you are interested in books that will raise your awareness about how deceived we are into \\"needing\\" so-called 'expert' help with things look up the books of John Holt or John Taylor Gatto.  Also, feel free to browse my wish list, which you can get from clicking on my nickname above.  I dare you to become an independant thinker!	2002-02-08
US	49782890	R1FEUWDRAXU9SU	0671023373	104801902	Man's Search For Meaning	Books	5	7	8	N	N	So Simple, Simply Profound	Viktor E. Frankl, as you've read in other reviews, is a holocaust survivor.  In Man's Search for Meaning Frankl takes his experiences in concentration camps and translates them into a theory for therapy.  His personally developed therapy, logotherapy, strives to help mankind overcome nuerosis by applying meaning to one's life experience, including (if not especially) a person's suffering.  It is stated over and over again in Frankl's book that if a man can be shown a why, he can endure almost any how.  This isn't really a new idea.  However, Frankl goes one step further by helping people to see meaning and dignity in their suffering.  Indeed, the preface of the book starts out with the line ' Dr. Frankl, author-psychiatrist, sometimes asks his patients who suffer from a multitude of torments great and small, \\"Why do you not commit suicide?\\".'  What an opening line!  What a question!  Why does a suffering person not commit suicide?  Are they living for a minor child, to finish a project, because their religion forbids suicide?  Whatever the reason is, Frankl suggests that while that reason does not necessarily eliminate the suffering, a person's recognition of the dignity of their suffering can give them the will to go on.<br />While this book is not light reading, and does occasionally get a tad repetitive, it has such a wonderful message and packs so much into such a short space, that I highly recommend that everyone get a copy and read it.  I was lent a copy by a friend and now I plan to get a copy for several people who I know.  It's just wonderful.	2002-01-22
US	49782890	RHUQPKDNF42K4	0439139597	667539744	Harry Potter And The Goblet Of Fire (Book 4)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A fun read, better than books 2 or 3	I really enjoyed Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire.  I found the characters to be more fleshed out, as they were with the first book (but seemed to lose somewhat in books 2 and 3).  I also very much enjoyed the introduction of characters from other parts of the wizarding world.  It gave the whole story a much more round, realistic feel to it ie:there is more to the wizarding world than just Hogwart's Academy.<br />There are places where I felt that the events transpire in a somewhat thin fashion.  For example:if there is truth serum then why does anyone have to worry about trust, why can't we just administer it to those who claim to no longer support the Dark Lord and get on with it - I also felt that Harry's &quot;win&quot; against Voldemort this time to be a litte too convenient.  Yet, I have to remind myself and the other reviewers that this book is for children.  It is not designed to have the complexity of adult fiction.  Which brings me to another issue...<br />The next paragraph in not a complaint, simply a parental advisory:<br />Some have claimed that this book is morally subversive.  I would not go so far as to say that.  However, I do, personally, feel that the age recommendation given, 9-12 years old, is too low.  If I were to rate this book as a movie I would minimally give it a PG-13 rating, perhaps even a &quot;soft&quot; R.  After all, it does include murder, and the mixing of a potion by taking bones from a grave, cutting off someone's hand, and taking blood from a young boy's arm.  I would not allow my own child, under the age of 13, to read this book.  I am an admitted conservative (I won't allow my toddler to watch any of the modern Disney movies), so each must judge for themselves.  I strongly recommend that all parents read this book before allowing thier child to read it, so that they may judge the individual child's readiness and discuss the themes in the book with the child.  I do not feel this is &quot;morally subversive&quot; material, as another review has suggested.  But a child should be able to understand ideas like cheating isn't ok just because everyone else is doing it, before they read the book, lest they hold up Harry Potter and what he does as a hero or role model.<br />End of parental advisory.<br />One other issue that I had with this book, the same issue that I had with book 2 and 3, is that the author constantly regurgitates information from the previous books in the series.  I find this offensive in any series novel.  Readers should take the time to read a series in order so that they understand what is happening without &quot;cliff notes&quot; scattered through the book.  Authors should not pander to those who are too lazy to read the first books.  At the very least, it disrupts the story for the reader who has read the previous books because you feel like you are stopped at a red light waiting for the story to go on after the author has finised catching the other readers (who did not read the first books) up with the background.s another review has suggested.  But a child should be able to understand ideas like cheating isn't ok just because everyone else is doing it, before they read the book, lest they hold up Harry Potter and what he does as a hero or role model.<br />End of parental advisory.<br />One other issue that I had with this book, the same issue that I had with book 2 and 3, is that the author constantly regurgitates information from the previous books in the series.  I find this offensive in any series novel.  Readers should take the time to read a series in order so that they understand what is happening without &quot;cliff notes&quot; scattered through the book.  Authors should not pander to those who are too lazy to read the first books.  At the very least, it disrupts the story for the reader who has read the previous books because you feel like you are stopped at a red light waiting for the story to go on after the author has finised catching the other readers (who did not read the first books) up with the background.	2002-01-17
US	49782890	R342KKK4OX70E6	0439136369	667539744	Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Good read, just one little problem	Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban is a rolicking good read.  There is plenty of adventure, mystery, and humor (such as when Harry finds out that his aunt and uncle have been telling their friends that they have been sending him to a school for &quot;incorrigibles&quot;!).  This book is better than the second Harry Potter book and almost as good as the first.  Definetely a fun read. There are two points that I feel need mentioned.  <br />The first is not a complaint, just a little heads up for parents who may want to know.  This book is for a somewhat older child than the first two.  There is a small bit of &quot;language&quot; (very tiny amount, but parents who may be offended should be aware).<br />The second point is a bit of a complaint.  As with the second book, the author again spent quite a bit of time going over information from the first book (in order to make this book stand-alone for the reader who did not read the previous books).  I find this to be annoying in a serial book.  Readers who do not take the time to read the first books should not be catered to in the latter books of any series.  Furthermore, for the reader who has read the first books, the rehashing of old material gives the story a feeling of marking time.  The reader is no longer in the story, rather is just waiting for the author to finish catching up those who are behind and get on with the story. For this reason, I have taken away one star.	2002-01-14
US	49782890	R4CQGAAVGB3Q3	0439064872	667539744	Harry Potter And The Chamber Of Secrets	Books	3	4	8	N	N	Not nearly as good as the first	I won't bother going over the plot line of Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets.  Plenty of other reviewers here have done it already and I do not want to spoil it for anyone.  Instead I will begin by saying that I did think this was a fairly decent book, but had two problems that did not sit well with me.<br />First:The author spends a lot of time in the story regurgitating information about the first book.  Personally, this is a trait that I find annoying in any series story.  I do not feel that the author should cater to those who do not want to put in the time/effort to read the first book in the series.  When an author feels the need to spend time bringing some of the readers up to date on what they should already know it gives the story a feeling of &quot;marking time&quot; for those of us who have read the first book already, which just yanks a reader right out of the fantasy world and ruins the atmosphere that has been created.<br />My second problem with this book is that it simply was not as well written as the first book.  It wasn't bad.  I just felt that in some places the author got a little lazy about creating the detailed fantasy world that she managed so beautifully in the first book.  Having read the first book and knowing what the author is capable of, I found this rather disappointing.	2002-01-12
US	49782890	R7RYRZ0HK7AK7	0380730138	979924066	Vinegar Hill (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	4	1	3	N	N	A great book	Many people who reviewed this book gave it a &quot;bad grade&quot; for being depressing.  I guess they are right that the book was in some ways depressing.  Yet, I felt that this was exactly what the book was about - what it's like to live in a depressing living situation with depressing people and perhaps have to deal with your own depression at the same time.  <br />The situation is obviously depressing.  The family has returned to live with the in-laws because of economic failure.  What could possibly be more depressing?  The husband is described as becoming &quot;too comfortable&quot; with the living situation.  Yet, I felt that this comfort was just a demonstration of his depression.  It is always easier to get used to a lower standard (because in reality, who WANTS to live with their parents) than to put oneself out there and risk failure in an attempt to raise themselves up.  Of course, it's easier for him to get comfortable and stay where he is.  Everyone in this family is carrying out that depression in their own way.<br />The author does a wonderful job of describing the feel and atmosphere of the household.  She also goes through the wife depression about having lost her husband to his depression and her mother-in-law.  As the wife begins to fight back her own depression she starts walking (weight issues) and that helps her start to feel better.  It's about having enough and taking control.<br />Okay  :this is a spoiler, be forewarned!<br />Some people did not like the way the book ended.  The wife leaves the husband to take a better job and get a place of her own.  That pretty much ends the book.  However, with the way it was written, I think it was perfect.  She tells her children that she and Daddy can't live together write now, but she doesn't know that they won't at some point in the future.  It's not about leaving her husband.  It's not really even about starting a new life.  It is about deciding that she is not going to stay in a situation which iskilling her soul, even if that means leaving a loved one (her husband) behind because he is not ready to leave the bad situation yet for himself.  It is about her going forward, even though the future is uncertain.<br />It all felt so very real.  I have little doubt that many people will relate to this book on very personal levels.  If nothing else, it was nice to read a book about real people.  People who were neither going through some big titanic-like tragedy, nor who were so rich that they didn't have to worry about day to day living.	2002-01-10
US	49782890	R330EIXQTXOF8H	0060930535	951868170	The Poisonwood Bible (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	3	1	3	N	N	Well begun is half done, but only half.	The Poisonwood Bible is a very difficult book for me to review because I have such mixed feeling about it.  The first two thirds of the book are wonderful!  The story about a missionary &quot;gone off to save the heathens&quot; in Africa and what becomes of him and his family is compelling enough.  Yet the author doesn't stop there, she throws in some seriously deep insight into the lives of women oppressed by domineering husbands and fathers.  Then she sets it against what happens to these people in a village of &quot;savages&quot; who turn out not to be so savage, who in fact act as their saviours on a few occasions.  She shows the reader how to relate to both groups of people through their shared miseries, of which the author pulls no punches.  This African experience is brutal.  For salt, the author provides some insight into the political and cultural issues of the Congo.  All of this is wrapped together in some of the most beautiful prose a person will ever read.  It seriously took my breath away.  I give the first two thirds of The Poisonwood Bible 5 stars.  It's just plain awesome!<br />Now the bad part.  The final third of The Poisonwood Bible is a long, rambling, irritating and pointless diatribe about what happens to the family after they leave the Congo.  Like a rock on water it skips from here to there with no apparent meaning.  It adds nothing to the book except for physical weight.  Reading the last third of The Poisonwood Bible and getting to the end to find out that there wasn't going to be any explanation for that painful bit of reading seriously made me want to strike the author.  I cannot begin to fathom what happened when the author penned that part of the novel.  Perhaps writers block suddenly set in?  Or maybe Miss Kingsolver died and someone else finished the book?  I don't know.<br />Borrow The Poisonwood Bible and read it.  After you find that you have read about two thirds of the book watch out for signs of drag.  As soon as that sets in,give up.  It's not worth wasting your time or ruining the experience of the rest of the book.	2002-01-10
US	49782890	R3ABX698F7B7PM	0452282829	872593606	We Were the Mulvaneys (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	1	8	13	N	N	A waste of talent and time	We Were the Mulvaneys is perhaps one of the strangest \\"bad\\" books that I've ever read.  It starts off with a pretty good idea: a typical American family falls apart after the daughter is raped.  From there it disintegrates into horribly drawn out descriptions of everything (like directions to the farm, the color of wallpaper,etc ad nauseum) except that which needs desperately to be described - The Characters!  If the author had put one-tenth the effort into describing the characters and giving them depth as she did in her long winded descriptions of EVERYTHING else, this would have been a fabulous book.  Unfortunately, because we never come to really know the characters, we have no understanding of why they do what they do. Reading about the Mulvaneys is like watching a tank of fish.  You can see very clearly, in stunning detail, what they are doing.  Still, you haven't got a clue why.<br />Tedious, ridiculous, and time wasting.  If Joyce Carol Oates would stop trying to so hard to be a literary giant and just work at being an author with a story to tell, she might have gotten better reviews for this book.	2002-01-10
US	49782890	R1Y53PCAY36I4U	0312863551	562507215	The Moon Is a Harsh Mistress	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Wonderful work of science fiction, plus more	The Moon is a Harsh Mistress is one of the few works of science fiction that I have read.  I don't typically read science fiction because I don't like it.  I usually find the characters wooden and the story way too drawn out.  My friend lent me The Moon is a Harsh Mistress insisting that it would solve my sci/fi woes.  I was skeptical, but she was right!<br />I found The Moon is a Harsh Mistress to be a delightful tale of people and rebellion.  The characters were well drawn and highly believable.  The story was well structured with just the right amount of entertainment value balanced with letting the reader think about things.  I found the setting and technology to be very realistic for the story.  There was no feeling of being bogged down in technology explanations that were too detailed and complicated (something that seems to happen in scifi books sometimes).<br />The themes of how humans cope and change in new environments, the politics of a people living too far from their government, political rebellion, and social evolution may seem heavy.  However, the author does such a wonderful job of laying down the story through the experience of people that you hardly notice the serious themes that you are exploring because you are so entertained!<br />If you have never read scifi, you must read this book.  If you don't like scifi you must read this book.  If you have never read this book for any reason what-so-ever, you must read this book.	2002-01-10
US	49782890	R2IRMKXWGTCT9T	0425172996	103559066	Vector	Books	4	4	5	N	N	It's entertainment, not literature.	Vector, like most Robin Cook novels, is an entertaining, if somewhat disturbing, way to spend an afternoon.  The basic premise goes something like this : disgruntled Russian immigrant with knowledge of boiweaponary hooks up with Aryan Army types, together they plan a major attack upon a government building using Anthrax.  Two medical examiners come across seemingly unrelated cases of anthrax and botulism deaths.  The challenge in this story is for these MEs to figure out what is going on in time to stop the bioweapon attack, hopefully without getting themselves killed by bad guys.  <br />I agree with some of the other reveiwers who have stated that they found the characters to be somewhat shallow and had a hard time caring about them.  However, I was not disturbed by this as it has been my experience that Robin Cook has a sort of hit or miss method in character developement (more miss than hit).  I find it helpful to simply look upon Robin Cook's  characters as vehicles for the story, which, in this case, is compelling.<br />Where this book, as most of Robin Cook's other books, really shines is in making very complex medical/forensic science issues accessable and interesting to the reader.  As always in a Robin Cook novel, I found myself caught up and fascinated with the details of forensic science.  For all of those who love and remember the old show Quincy, you'll know what I mean.<br />Vector also serves a unique purpose of bringing to the reader's attention the very real issues surrounding the threat of biological weapons.  Issues such as what some of them are, how they are transmitted, contamination issues, and treatment are all lightly covered in the book, with a good reference list at the end of the novel for those interested in pursuing non-fiction reading.  Most importantly the reader is made aware of the frightening ease a terrorist group would have in aquiring and using biological weapons of mass destruction.  Especially scary is the thought that this could be done by groups of relatively unsophisticated people who don't necessarily have access to large amounts of funds.  It truly brings the threat home.	2002-01-10
US	49782890	R1X5MAQS849XQI	0446607711	702857631	The Simple Truth	Books	4	60	67	N	N	Quite entertaining, except for the &quot;love story&quot; aspect	The Simple Truth is about an ex-con serving a life sentence in a military prison for a murder that he did not commit.  As is typical, but completely acceptable, in this type of book there is the expected coverup and mix of unexpected bad guys.  I won't go into more details about the book, as it would simply be reiterating what so many other reviewers have already done.<br />I found this book to be a very entertaining read, with pretty good characters depth, and enough plot twists to keep things interesting and not too shallow.  In fact, I read it over the course of one day (I was sick and had nothing else to do).  The only problem that I had with this book was the manner in which the author chose to construct the &quot;love story&quot;.  It was so far outside the realm of likely that I just found it laughable.  Indeed, I wish that many authors who write these types of books would simply get over the need to construct elaborate and unlikely love stories.  Even with the two main characters being male and female, it would have been perfectly okay, even somewhat refreshing, if there was no romantic relationship between them at all.  <br />Otherwise this was a highly entertaining read that I would recommend to anyone looking to kill a day or two.	2002-01-08
US	49782890	R1KYYW8LVR37EU	0399144420	443286953	Koontz: Three Complete Novels	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Not the best of Dean Koontz, but	P>The novel in this book is The Bad Place.  I had actually read this DK novel before, and liked it again upon the second reading. It is by far the longest novel in the book.  In reality it is the only one that I think deserves novel status.  It is true DK, suspenseful, thrilling, and loaded with bits of the paranormal.  DK is not the finest writer on the planet, but at times he does succeed in coming up with some of the strangest story ideas you'll ever see.  If you like different/wierd, you will like The Bad Place.  Individually, I would give it four and one half stars (I rarely give anything five stars as I consider a five star rating to mean nearly perfect and must read).<br />The next \\"novel\\" in this book is Demon Seed.  Demon Seed is one of those books that people read and typically love or hate with very little middle ground.  The truth is that Demon Seed is weak from a literary point of view.  There is not a whole lot of flesh on the bones.  Even DK himself acknowledges that Demon Seen was more a \\"good idea than a novel\\".  It is about a computer that believes itself to be in love with a woman and uses that as an excuse to do anything it wants to her, which it does.  After it proceeds to lock her within her highly automated home, the really scary stuff begins.  DK does a good job making the computer sound like an abusive man who had any number of reasons why his abuse was ok, even good for, the woman that he \\"loves\\".  While thin and disappointing in some areas, this is still a fast and entertaining read with quite a bit of insight into the abusive mind thrown in for salt.  I give it four stars.<br />The last book, The Eyes of Darkness, was the most disappointing.  The idea for the novel was very good, which is probably what makes it so diappointing.  Even what there was of the novel was pretty good, but it wasn't well fleshed out at all.  The characters were all very static.  Also, it seemed that everything came too easily to the characters as they were goingthrough their struggles.  It is not surprising to me that this book was originally released under the name of Leigh Nichols before DK was writing under his own name.  It has every bit of the feel of what a DK outline would turn into in the hands of a less expereinced writer.  I give it 2 and one half stars.	2002-01-07
US	49782890	RDBF41JYSKWUW	0743211383	241269653	Dreamcatcher	Books	3	2	2	N	N	S.K. is like chocolate, even when he's "bad", he's good...	No, Dreamcatcher is not the best SK book ever written, by far.  However, it is really quite entertaining just the same.  In fact, if I had read this book by any other author, I would have given it four stars.  I gave the book three because I know that SK is capable of better.<br />Unlike some reveiwers, I did not find the beginning of the book tedious at all.  In fact, I thought that is was the very best part of the book.  I loved the development of the characters and their relationships.  I was not at all offended by the foul language, I found it completely appropriate to the characters and their setting (four guys hanging out without their parents/wives/society, of course it's going to become foul, I would think it odd if it did not).   For those who don't like the alien birth scenes from the Aliens movies, don't read this book.  <br />Similiar to other reviewers, I did have some problems with the ending of this book.  While I didn't find the chase scene as unnecessary as some, I did think the inclusion of the Kurtz character and his fellows was.  Kurtz was never really developed enough for me to care much about him one way or the other, so I did find his inclusion in the scene a bit tedious.  What should have been a chase scene about good guys trying to stop a bad guy from doing something turned into good guys, chasing a bad guy, while being chase by other, but different, bad guys.  It doesn't look good even in that simplified format, does it?<br />I actually like the part of the book that included Jonesy trapped in him \\"mind warehouse/safehouse\\".  I thought it cool to watch him and Mr. Gray play with each others minds.  The parts where Mr.Gray learns about sensory input include gorging on bacon and loving it(something many of us can relate to), except when he tries to eat it raw. <br />Unfortunately, I was very disappointed with the ending when we find out that Mr.Gray is supposedly only a figment of Jonesey's imagination.  It felt to me like a rushed in last minute idea for a plot twist that wasn't terribly well thought out.  Nevermind that it wasn't terribly well written out, either.  Not one of SK's finer moments.  <br />I also had similiar feeling about the end business of Duddits, a really great character, having been the one who killed Richie (a plot point that wasn't really annoying, but was completely unnecessary) and the boys having been \\"used\\".  Again, felt like a last minute idea thrown in without thought.<br />Overall, I say that this book is entertaining and worth a read.  It is not one of SK's better books.  There are a few places where the plot is unclear (I suspect even to itself) and some things didn't need to be at all.  Still, it's a fun and entertaining book just the same.  So, like I titled my review,  SK is like chocolate, even when he's bad (for SK, who is held to a higher standard), he's still good (very entertaining read).	2002-01-05
US	49782890	R2278YWT7STO92	0312952716	231403284	A Simple Plan	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Not What You Would Expect	The cover of A Simple Plan has a quote from Stephen King - &quot;The Most Suspensful Book of the Year&quot;.  I would have to disagree, as so many others already have.  A Simple Plan is fairly short on suspense, which is disappointing only because the reader is led to expect suspense because of the quote on the cover.  This is unfortunate, because A Simple Plan is so much better than simply a &quot;suspense novel&quot;.  Alas, however, what first-time author would not want a praising quote from Stephen King on the cover of his book?<br />A Simple Plan is the incredibly frightening journey that a simple middle class man and his pregnant wife take from being ordinary, hardworking, decent people to mind-numbingly greedy, cold, methodical murderers.  It is the image of a people doing insane things, within the framework of complete sanity.  How does an ordinary person commit acts of pure evil, and talk themselves into a good night's sleep?  Perhaps the answer given in A Simple Plan is that by calling such acts &quot;pure evil&quot; we oversimplify to comfort ourselves.  It feels so much safer a world when people who kill cold bloodedly can be labeled &quot;pure evil&quot; and therefore set apart from the rest of us.<br />I cannot do justice to this book in a simple review.  I will say that the characters are solid and well thought out.  The relationship between the main character and his brother provides a very interesting and brutally honest sub-plot.  I am exceedingly impressed with the author as a first-time novelist and will be keeping a sharp eye out for his next effort.  I have seen a number of reveiwers asking about subsequent novels as well.  I hope that the author has not gotten cold feet for a second novel under pressure of putting forth an even better work.	2001-12-22
US	49782890	R18OE0VX43AFNL	0897894073	316792200	Milk, Money, and Madness: The Culture and Politics of Breastfeeding	Books	5	19	21	N	N	An Education, should be requisite for teenagers	This book should be required reading for all teenagers as part of their economics classes, their sociology classes, and their health classes.  The subject matter in this book covers all of this range.  Shown is the health implications for babies who are denied their mother's milk.  This is especially important for those babies who are artificially fed in undeveloped countries where there is no access to clean water or sanitation.  For those babies, artificial feeding is not only a substandard choice, it is a deadly one.  Further, this book illustrates why the chioce to artificially feed infants is being made in more often in these countries, dealing especially with the lies the formula companies perpetuate.  Readers will understand how a multibillion dollar business has been developed on the backs of babies.<br />Readers will also learn, probably for the first time, that the behaviour of formula companies has become so evil that there are a number of international organizations that have ongoing efforts to save babies from the deadly consequences of the formula manufacturer's lies.  Many will be surprised to read of a decades old boycott, and an ethical marketing code developed by the World Health Organization, both of which have been flaunted and ignored by the formula manufacturers.<br />Most readers will be familiar with movies and novels that deal with drug manufacturers making deadly substances and knowingly hiding the information, even at the risk of many deaths, in order to reap the profits.  Milk, Money, and Madness will detail such a story.  It's all true and much more evil and insidious than anyone will ever suspect until they read the book.	2001-12-14
US	49782890	R1DQ1I8KW7IEKG	0807021415	607250299	At the Breast: Ideologies of Breastfeeding and Motherhood in the Contemporary United States	Books	2	25	28	N	N	A few nuggets in an otherwise sorry treatment of the subject	I bought this book prepared to be fascinated.  I was not disappointed.  The author addresses some truly fascinating topics of how we view motherhood and breastfeeding in the United States. She makes some good points.<br />There were, however, so many problems with this book that it really overshadowed what the author did well. An interesting contrast is shown between the African American mothers and Caucasian American mothers that she interviewed for this book. One group feeling guilty about not breastfeeding and using public assistance, the other group apparently feeling no guilt about not breastfeeding and expressing a sense of entitlement to public assistance programs.  Rather than expounding upon this fascinating subject of differing emotional perspectives on breastfeeding, the author serves up her thinly veiled personal political views.  Worse, she openly expresses disrespect for one of the mothers that she interviewed, denoting in the book how she &quot;kept the upper hand&quot; in the interview.  While one could argue that an interviewer &quot;needs&quot; to stay in control of the interview, there is absolutely no reason to show such public rudeness to someone who freely gave of their time to help the author with her research.   <br />The author makes a conversation about the medical community pushing mothers into guilt about not breastfeeding, based upon ONE interveiw.  Without even going into the lack of coverage of varying medical attitudes about breastfeeding in different regions of the United States, it has to be stated that making any such statement based upon just one statement is not only poor judgement, but simply ridiculous.  Again the author takes a large issue and over-simplifies it for the convenience of her book.<br />Ms. Blum's contradictory treatment of the importance of breastfeeding is infuriating.  With one hand she states her belief in the benefits of breastfeeding, with the other she marginalizes its importance, as if the decision were nomore important than whether to wear blue jeans of khakis.<br />If you want a very slim beginning to this subject go ahead and read the book.  Please, though, borrow it rather than buy it and reward the author for such a poor job.	2001-12-06
US	49782890	R1WAM0T55Q58YB	0671042858	321732450	The Girl Who Loved Tom Gordon	Books	4	1	2	N	N	A new and pleasing side of Stephen King.	The Girl Who Loved Tom Gordon is an almost completely psychological horror story.  Stephen King takes you deep inside the mind of an eleven year old girl who has become desperately lost in the appalacian mountains.  You will experience her hunger, pain, and thirst.  You become witness to the importance she (and all of us humans) place on the familiar in a strange place.  Gripping fear sets in slowly with an awareness that something is out there in the woods with you.<br />When I read the reviews of this book it was interesting to note the difference between those who loved it and those who hated it. The interesting part was that there seemed to be no middle ground.  I also note that most of the &quot;haters&quot; seemed to be readers who normally like Stephen King's work.  It is sad and predictable that this should be the case.<br />While it is true that this novel doesn't include any of the gore which Stephen King has become known for (which is what I suspect dislikers of this book felt was missing), it is a great story, told incredibly well.  A novel with true craft, by a true craftsman.<br />That being said, I did have one small gripe with this book.  In my opinion, some of the insights of the eleven year old girl were just a little too mature for a child of that age.  I found this to be just a bit distracting.  Normally, this wouldn't bother me too much - but I was a little annoyed at being distracted from an otherwise truly all engrossing story.	2001-12-06
US	49782890	R106UI213G092G	0807847917	190279983	LA Leche League : At the Crossroads of Medicine, Feminism, and Religion	Books	3	8	8	N	N	Worth reading,once... but borrow, don't buy it	A somewhat interesting look at the history of La Leche League International, Inc. (for a more thorough history read The LLLove Story and Seven Voices, One Dream), it's Catholic roots, unique type of feminism, and how this all has affected the organization. <BR>That being said, while it is somewhat interesting, it was somewhat shallow.  The author makes reference to various ideas in feminism and Catholic theology, but fails to expound upon them.  There seems to be the assupmtion that the reader is already familiar with all of the ideas, feminism and Catholic theology, that La Leche League is being compared and contrasted with.  Perhaps this author was a bit more ambitous than capable?<br />There is a rather good, but gentle, critique of certain La Leche League practices and ideas.  Again, though, the author only mentions areas that seem to need review and reflection without much explanation or offer of solution.<br />Altogether, it is a book worth reading once (but not buying, just go to the library) if you are interested and want one perspective as a starting point.  It is to be stressed though, that this book is only a starting point on any of the topics that it would claim to cover (La Leche League, feminism, Catholic theology).  Without a more thorough understanding of these topics than the author offers up, it really isn't possible to understand the interplay they have had with La Leche League as an organization	2001-10-19
US	49782890	R3KZXBJ4SD7K9Y	0202011925	40473533	Breastfeeding: Biocultural Perspectives	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Biocultural BFing issues, important info on this subject	Breastfeeding: BioCultural Perspectives is a wonderful in depth look at the biological and cultural issues surrounding breastfeeding.  It contains a close look at the biological history of breastfeeding, explaining how it is thought that breastfeeding has evolved to protect infants and children, why it is important to breastfeed, and how women in the distant past breastfed (or not) and the implications this may have held for their offspring.<br />The book goes on to examine information about current breastfeeding practices in various parts of the world and the effect these practices seem to have had on their populations.  Included are all of the cultural issues which serve to support or sever the breastfeeding relationship.  Further, the book covers issues of: weaning (what is biologically and culturally normal<br />and why they are so different), breast as a sexual object, demand feeding vs. scheduled feeding, co-sleeping and SIDS, fertility issues affected by breastfeeding, and breast cancer and reproductive biology.<br />This book is a must read for those interested in more than just mechanical information about breastfeeding.  It is also recommended reading for any attatchement style parent who is interested in a more biocultural view of why AP works.<br />This book is not light reading, but is certainly accessible to anyone truly interested.	2001-10-17
US	49782890	RZ5TBR7SYO0VC	0202011925	40473533	Breastfeeding: Biocultural Perspectives	Books	5	28	28	N	N	Biocultural BFing issues, important info on this subject	Breastfeeding: BioCultural Perspectives is a wonderful in depth look at the biological and cultural issues surrounding breastfeeding.  It contains a close look at the biological history of breastfeeding, explaining how it is thought that breastfeeding has evolved to protect infants and children, why it is important to breastfeed, and how women in the distant past breastfed (or not) and the implications this may have held for their offspring.<br />The book goes on to examine information about current breastfeeding practices in various parts of the world and the effect these practices seem to have had on their populations.  Included are all of the cultural issues which serve to support or sever the breastfeeding relationship.  Further, the book covers issues of: weaning (what is biologically and culturally normal <BR>and why they are so different), breast as a sexual object, demand feeding vs. scheduled feeding, co-sleeping and SIDS, fertility issues affected by breastfeeding, and breast cancer and reproductive biology.<br />This book is a must read for those interested in more than just mechanical information about breastfeeding.  It is also recommended reading for any attatchement style parent who is interested in a more biocultural view of why AP works.  <br />This book is not light reading, but is certainly accessible to anyone truly interested.	2001-10-17
US	49782890	R3SF93E3ENAS5F	0385479670	701055253	Catechism of the Catholic Church: Complete and Updated	Books	1	18	47	N	N	DO NOT BUY THIS BOOK	I bought this particular version of the catechism and returned it to the book store two days later.  The book is not decently made and the pages start coming off of the binding as soon as you start looking through the book.  In trying to read one of the first chapters, the pages just kept falling out.  I also know two other people that this happened to with this version of the catechism.<br />Buy any other version, but not this one.	2001-10-04
US	49782890	R1RN7J427MAY2O	0912500867	601592813	Defining your Own Success: Breastfeeding After Breast Reduction Surgery	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Wonderful, invaluable, especially for bf &quot;helpers&quot;	This book is simply wonderful.  Tons of scientific information presented in a thoroughly readable fashion.  Personal stories of BFAR women are wonderful.  The book offers tons of hope to BFAR mothers.  More importantly, it also offers empowerment and respect.  There is no false hope offered for a &quot;perfect&quot; breastfeeding experience, nor is there any second guessing of the mother's decision to have the reduction surgery.  Only straight forward information about what reduction surgery does to the mammary system, how milk production can be maximized, tools and techniques to assist in BFAR, and the respect for the mother to go forward and make the best decision about how to handle her personal BFAR experience.<br />The chapter about &quot;Defining Your Own Success&quot; I found especially wonderful.  As a person who helps other mothers by giving them breastfeeding information, it was a wonderful piece to give me the tools to help mothers who have had a less than &quot;perfect&quot; breastfeeding experience (even if not related to BFAR) make peace with her experience.  It is no surprise that Diana West is a La Leche League leader.  This is a very typical and wonderful example of the warmth, respect, and non-judgementalism that La Leche League leaders are known for exhibiting.<br />Every mother who has had a breast reduction or is contemplating a breast reduction should read this book.  All lactation consultants, pediatricians, obstetricians, plastic surgeons, La Leche League Leaders, midwives and doulas should read this book.	2001-10-02
US	49782890	R3INB13HZYPEVL	0452255031	145079192	Whole Foods for the Whole Family: La Leche League International Cookbook (Plume)	Books	5	28	29	N	N	Must have in every kitchen	This is my absolute favorite cookbook, and I have tons.  This book focuses purely on preparing wholesome, not &quot;health-nut&quot;, food for your family.  These are recipes for real food that real people can prepare and will enjoy.  I especially like this book because it contains many discussions on &quot;how-to&quot; issues, such as bread kneading and sour-dough starters.  Even my husband the meat and potatoes guy, likes these recipes.  No weird ingrediants, just good wholesome food.  Ten thousand stars!!  I also recommend Whole Foods From the Whole World and Whole Foods for Kids to Cook.	2001-10-02
