US	49789211	R3PISFJ4JILBX1	0312326440	910507659	Evidence of Harm: Mercury in Vaccines and the Autism Epidemic: A Medical Controversy	Books	5	130	163	N	Y	Mother of autistic children	Reading this book is difficult.I cannot say wherther or not my children have autism from organic mercury used in vaccinations.If  you live with an autistic child,this book will offer no succor,no simple remedies. The Pharma corps. have grown so powerful that reform is unlikely,even more so since virtually every member of congress is bought and owned by large drug companies. this book made me scream, want to tear my hair out.If half of what he writes eventually turns out to be true, these corporations and their weasel poltical allies are literally guilty of crimes against humanity. In the name of profit...read this book,go to the web site, google the subject,do the research. THEN RAISE YOUR VOICE.For opening the door,Mr Kirby, thank you	2005-04-15
US	49789211	R3BVU1GRNDYE36	1573222992	360305004	Plan B: Further Thoughts on Faith	Books	5	18	26	N	N	a nice palliative to the day to day news...	Anne Lamott is back.Thank God! Her occasional musings in Salon.com have been gathered here for all to enjoy. her frustration  and contempt for the Bushies,her forgiving accepting Chrstianity[which reminds me of annie Dillard in so many ways]her alcoholism,trying attempting to survive her teenager,the death of her Mom and a close friend, and not least of all, her beloved dog. Some of the reviews written here are people who have certainly not read this book,or this self-deprecating womans writings.This is life affirming stuff. the reviewers who are so offended by this have obviously not read through scripture,filled with lovable scoundrels.Read this enjoy it,savor this good womans words.And for the fundys, you need to relax.You need a hug. and an enema.	2005-04-01
US	49789211	R3BK09XCED3VM1	1570755450	790703837	Testimony: The Word Made Fresh	Books	5	12	12	N	Y	A Gift from Daniel Berrigan,S.J.	Daniel Berrigan has always been difficult for many to understand.Why would a gifted poet,a talented Jesuit priest spend so much of his adult life in jails and paddy wagons? Why wont' he just say something comforting, and retreat? The answer can be found in the WORD, which Daniel Berrigan, unlike ,well, most of us, takes seriously.As in living it.The words in this book,published by the wonderful folks at Orbis books,have been culled form talks, sermons,lectures and written works, spanning his career,[as it were] as a fighter against,what Pope John Paul II later described, as a culture of death. Whatever injustice Fr Berrigan finds, he rails against, with words and his person. There is no difference between what he says and what he does. Now,THAT is something special.And He is... A++++	2005-02-02
US	49789211	R2Z7GQUS3AQP8N	1570754675	109333258	Dorothy Day: Portraits by Those Who Knew Her	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Inspring,yes,but not easy to follow	Dorothy Day, saint of the unwashed and unwanted, pacifist/anarchist,who actually lived the verses in MATTHEW 25 about the least among us,was an astonishing gift to Catholicism of the 20th century. Her influence is as great as any prelate[read any bishops letter on poverty,nuclear war,justice and you can see her gentle,firm hand there],yet it is/was as the co -founder of the Catholic Worker movement that she is best known for. these essays highlight Dorthy Day in her graciousness and deep prayer,her temper and moemnts of depression,her undying faith in the church,and unfailing criticism of the state. Dorothy day is not for the faint of heart or spirit.She disturbs,by her constancy and beauty. I am in constant awe...Hugely Recommended	2005-01-31
US	49789211	R1ZHXJQI6MG4LJ	0813520088	984639300	Izzy: A Biog Of I.f. Stone	Books	3	4	11	N	N	Hmmm...think of Ezra Pound....	Iggy Stone was a terrific jounalist,holding the powers that be feet to the fire,as it were.Howevere, his undying Stalinist sympathies and loyalities suggest a blind eye,which discolrs much of what he wrote, for me anyway. Whether or not he was a paid soviet agent[professor Cottrell dismisses this] or not,would we be as tolerant of his leanings if he were a Fascist? Think of Ezra Pound, his vitriolic and poisonous braodcasts,and hgow he has been tarnished.Or Lindbergh.To be preached to on moral responsibility from soemone who ignored the atrocities that were day to day life in the Soviet Union is bizzare,if not wilfully ignorant.We  have a responsibility to satnd up for all victims, as Albert Camus said,not to be on the side of the exucutioners. Stone was not, despite  all his acumen and style...	2004-10-28
US	49789211	R2M373CS65VTWC	0142000663	999720718	The Grapes of Wrath (Centennial Edition)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	One of the few real contenders for the great american novel	The Grapes of wrath is John Steinbecks masterpiece. That he never again wrote an opus of this caliber is of little matter. few others have,either before of since. Steinbeck tells the tale of America during the Depression,by making one family come to life,the Joads. Now a part of the american Lexicon due to the movie of the same name[and a later bruce Sprinsteen album,the ghost of tom joad},the Joads are once proud Oklahoma famers devastated by the dust bowl droughts of the 1930's[which Steinbeck describes brilliantly.} They gather together, tie up their meager belongings, and head out furthe west to California, the land of opportunity. Needless to say, their plight mirrors that of literally millions during that decade, and theier reception in California is less than welcoming. They fight with crooked cops,abusive migrant bosses and &quot;instigators&quot; in camps,until they finally find a labor camp that treats them, and others as human beings. The Joads,in their utter despair and poverty,retain, even ennoble the human condition, by growth and compassion and kindness. There are tow ways people react to adversity, to lash out or reach out. the Joads become, then, paradoxically,with their poverty and rough edges, the quintessential Americans:tough, undogmatic,principled,compassionate,not looking to take advantage even when the opportunity presents itself. The final scenes, with Tom forced to go on the run again,the final conversation between Tom and his Ma are astonishing, and Sharona {the roseofsahrona, as she is referred to] nursing a dying man with her breat milk intended for her stillborn baby, is as unforgettable as exists in all Literature. If Moby Dick is not the great american novel, then this is. One of the very very few pieces of literature as relevant as when it was written. as Masterpiece, a galaxy full of stars would not suffice, never mind 5 stars. MAGNIFICENT,UFORGETTABLE.A MASTERPIECE.	2004-08-06
US	49789211	R3RZG8QNNZ2ONT	0393059170	168441340	Cruel and Unusual: Bush/Cheney's New World Order	Books	4	125	198	N	N	4 and 1/2 starts,Hyperventilating,though often correct	I have literally no idea what one reviewer wrote about this book. My guess is that they never read it.Though Mr.Miller does go over the top[his use of the word Fascist is insulting to me, President Bush is many ludicrous things, but a fascist?}His descriptions of the media daze is telling, and far less overheated than the recent Outfoxed documentary. His connections of President Bush and the Vice President to far right Christian groups is interesting, well documented, and frankly, rather scary,in the sense that so many people simply do not care.The 2002 congressional elections being tilted by voting macj=hines, though he places copius evidence to back his claim, is the singular fascistic moment of the book, for me, anyway. the public humiliation of the Un weapons inspctors, and that of Scott ritter, a republican{!}is disgusting. In all, Mr. Miller has followed up on his earlier book on the lexicon of president Bush woith this tome. wqhile at times too heat seeking, it lays out, in chapter and verse as it were, the misdeeds ,crimes and inherent sickness of the present adminstration.And while certainly no groundbreaker, it is handy to have whlie watching the media distortionson your evening news.	2004-08-02
US	49789211	R9VCVZGHWPRZA	1582344108	222938706	Pablo Neruda: A Passion for Life	Books	5	15	18	N	Y	A wonder filled life of a very human poet	Pablo Neruda, of whom Garcia` marquez has called&quot;the greatest poet of the 20th century-in any language&quot;,has never had a full length biography in english.Until now.the man Neruda that Mr.Feinstein portrays is an often selfish,self absorbed genuis,who invented his own myth and ferociously hung on to it until his death,a couple of weeks after the murderous coup that took the life and lifeblood of his beloved Chile,and installed the US puppet regime of the neo-fascist Augusto pinochet. In his memoirs, Neruda never mentions his abandonment of his wife and handicapped child, not her subsequent death during WWII.His long held Stalinist beliefs,which in his memoirs he speaks of ruefully, are fully exposed here by Mr feinstein, though he seems to lack any historical prespective on this issue.His philandering is also brought to light[ad nauseum,actually} before meeting Matilde,his third wife[and by most accounts, the second love of his life,after his country} People who only have been introcduced to Neruda through the wonderful film Il Postino might be shocked at the great poets behaviour.[BTW,the novel Il Postino,a novella,actually is well worth reading,and is far darker then the film]All of the greats of the 20th century are here: Garcia Lorca,Sartre,Picasso,Nazim Hikmet,Mistral,Borges`.Nerudas life was often like a movie,surreal and silly. What Mr feinstein doesnt grasp,despite his copius research, is how such a bob vivant,political radical,philandereer inveterate collector,could have written like a slumming angel,for if anything,Gracia Marquez is quite correct.Canto general is a classic on the same level as Leaves of Grass[whose author was also deeply flawed,no?}Residence on earth,20 ,love poems and a song of despair[written as a very young man, which is covered very well in this book]The touching,brilliant 100 love songs for his wife[then mistress] matilde is not fully explored as i would have liked. I am biased,i admit.I read neruda every day,we have a woodcutof him over our kitchen table, my husband wears a wrist watch bearing Nerudas image,so we obviously love him. I found watching his satue crumble painful, and another lesson in hero worship. This book, successfully portrays Pablo Neruda in a;;his glory [and not so glorious ways] and gives, at last a full blooded portrait of this great treasure of the americas. Highly Recommedded	2004-07-29
US	49789211	R1J2QA5PN8YF8K	185984054X	181218559	The Missionary Position: Mother Teresa in Theory and Practice	Books	3	12	23	N	N	Hitchens vs. mother teresa	Christopher Hitchens, one time skewer of cant now apologist for the republican party and GWB flag-waver, penned this vitriloic piece a few years back, when Mother Teresa was stiill alive.He couldn't stand Mother teresa, and he hides his animus not at all. He actually does bring up a couple of good points, here coziness with the Duvalier family, the muderers who destroyed haiti for many years, and her association with S&amp;L swindler supreme Charles Keating{the exchange over Keating giving her a million bucks is enlightening}.His overall picture, of course, lacks anything resembling balance[never Hitchens strong point},the book being 98 pages, reads as if it were written during a particualrly nasty hangover.Which is too bad.the issuedsbrought up are legitimate,but get obscured by his venom and shallowness. However,to get another side of Mother teresa, whom I consider a holy woman and a saint,this book doesn bring up some points that hagiographers would rather be swept away.For that reason alone,it is worth reading.	2003-03-20
US	49789211	R11MND3H9GL3NU	1560254823	740024348	The Full Rudy: The Man, the Myth, the Mania (Nation Books)	Books	5	13	19	N	N	A terrific brief journey through recent history	Jack Newfield, who wrote for the Village Voice for many many years, is one of the last of the great muckraking journaLists. They have been replaces by tabloid tv journalism,which is another story.This book takes on one of the recent myths of the new century,that of &quot;americas mayor&quot; Rudolph Guliani. Newfield straight away calls him a&quot;c+ mayor&quot;,which is actually rather objective.Chapter by chapter,he brings up the screwy foibles of the Guliani years{his refusal to meet with any minority politicains,to gather votes for a compromise, outside of herman Badillo cost him control of the Board of Ed and led to cuts in education and no contract for the teachers for over 2 years}His bullying of anyone who didnt agree with him is well documented.Newfield acknowledges the great job that Guliani did for theose terribel two weeks in september of 2001,but states, convincingly that the work of his adminstartion must be judged from &quot;september 10 and before&quot; also. Mr Guliani has presedential aspirations, but his hubris and temper will be his undoing. this book shows how.And why. First rate!	2003-03-04
US	49789211	RZQWAHZLA7971	0465036929	661777594	Some Of Us Did Not Die: Selected Essays	Books	5	18	18	N	Y	A luminous voice that is missed...	June Jordan was many things: woman, Mother, friend, poet activist  essayist. She excelled, apparantly, at each. She died earlier this year from breast cancer. She left us this final testament, a group of essays that touch on allof her abiding concersn: race, poetry,feminism, anit-semitism, The plight of the Palestinian refugees, breast cancer,militarism, rape[agonizingly, she had been rapes. Twice!},Martin Luther King, Jr. and his womanising...She touched on each of these subjects in essays, rails about the lack of spending in research in breast cancer, goes to a LA synagogue for Shabbat service after a psychotic gunmen had opened fire at a Jewish day care centre,speaks about her son and his childhood friend, Daniel Pearl, who had been brutally murdered in pakistan,wonders aloud about the racial implication of the 2000 election and the curiopus way it was handled in Fla., speaks on rape in blunt,terrifying fashion. June jordan was a superb writer, and a better human being. the world is emptier without her light and wisdom, though as succor we have her essays and poems, for which I, for one, am so damn grateful. Highly recommended	2002-10-20
US	49789211	R3B0AMTB0AAFQR	0800631382	416416633	Jeremiah	Books	5	21	21	N	N	Daniel Berrigan, disturber of soporific peace	Jeremiah: The World, the Wound of God,is another In daniel Berrigans'series on \\"old Testament\\" prophets. His exegesis is not limited to Biblical times, as he attempts [with great success] to connect Jeremiahs' time with ours. Weapons of mass destruction,,aids,poverty,dicrimination are all still with us, despite what another reviewer wrote,and Fr.Berrigan shows us Jeremiahs reaction to like minded situations, and by default, ours. The book is an indictment of apathy,of governments and churches and NGO's ,etc. and corpoartions athat watch idly by ,wringing their collective hands, as innocents suffer.And Die. If you are willing to be challenged,to be unsettled,to look at things  differently,then buy this book and savor it.Highly recommended,even more so in the present climate.	2002-09-28
US	49789211	RLPT6LJLBXXHX	0262134047	702161920	Guy Debord and the Situationist International: Texts and Documents (October Books)	Books	5	14	17	N	Y	Excellent,long overdue study of this brilliant difficult man	Guy debord,progenitor of the extraordianry Situationist Internationale, was brillaint, autocratic,difficult,syncretic genius who took his own life. He first came to \\"notieriety\\" with the Letterist Internationale,the forerunner of the situationists. His greatest known work, still, is THE SOCIETY OF THE SPECTACLE, a post-modern,post-marxist analysis of modern society,which in his terms, had gone form a commodity based to spectacle based. Difficult to read, even harder to catorgorize, Debord later wote{20 years later} COMMENTS ON THE SOCIETY OF THE SPECTACLE,which further[in his mind] established the spectacle based modern capitalist society]Now This book, gorgeously if expensively produced by MIT Press, places Debord front and center.It Starts with an introductory essay by the volume editor, Tom Mc Donough, which attempts to introduce the cast of characters, sch as they were[are]. Next, a brilliant essay by Greil Marcus, who with his book Lipstick Traces brought the situationists back[for the first time to many] into view. the essays that follow are by Debord[the first 6 are}then one by Michele Bernstein[former memeber,the SI disbanded in 1972]others by the brilliant,poeticlly inclined Raoul Vaneigem[who was proably nearer to Debords intellectual level than many of the others]t j clark,libero anderotti[architecture and play, a suerb essay] among others. The book itself is very well produced,which is nice considering the price.Though incomplete[it is a reprint of the magazine OCTOBER issue on the SI} it helps fill in the missing pieces with this vital thinker and his times. Though not as complete as I would have liked{no Ralph rumney,for example,who has such interesting things to say in his book, THE CONSUL} it is another in the growing interst to the SI.Well doneIntroduction: Ideology and the Situations Utopia<BR>The Long Walk of the Situationist International 1<BR>The Great Sleep and Its Clients (1955) 21<BR>One Step Back (1957) 25<BR>Report on the Construction of Situations and on the Terms of Organization and Action of the International Situationist Tendency (1957) 29<BR>One More Try If You Want to Be Situationists (The SI in and against Decomposition) (1957) 51<BR>Theses on Cultural Revolution (1958) 61<BR>Contribution to the Debate \\"Is Surrealism Dead or Alive?\\" (1958) 67<BR>In Praise of Pinot-Gallizio (1958) 69<BR>Extracts from Letters to the Situationist International (1958) 75<BR>Editorial Notes: Absence and Its Costumers (1958) 79<BR>Editorial Notes: The Meaning of Decay in Art (1959) 85<BR>A Different City for a Different Life (1959) 95<BR>Editorial Notes: Critique of Urbanism (1961) 103<BR>Editorial Notes: Once Again, on Decomposition (1961) 115<BR>Comments against Urbanism (1961) 119<BR>Editorial Notes: Priority Communication (1962) 129<BR>Editorial Notes: The Avant-Garde of Presence (1963) 137<BR>Editorial Notes: All the King's Men (1963) 153<BR>The Situationists and the New Forms of Action in Politics or Art (1963) 159<BR>Perspectives for a Generation (1966) 167<BR>Captive Words - (Preface to a Situationist Dictionary) (1966) 173<BR>The Situationists and the New Forms of Action against Politics and Art (1967) 181<BR>The Practice of Theory: Cinema and Revolution (1969) 187<BR>Asger Jorn's Avant-Garde Archives 189<BR>Architecture and Play 213<BR>Situationist Space 241<BR>Lefebvre on the Situationists: An Interview 267<BR>Angels of Purity 285<BR>Difference and Repetition: On Guy Debord's Films 313<BR>Dismantling the Spectacle: The Cinema of Guy Debord 321<br />Spectacle, Attention, Counter-Memory 455<BR>Why Art Can't Kill the Situationist International 467<BR>Letter and Response 489<br />RELATED TITLES<br />    * Comments on the Society of the Spectacle (The Verso Classics Series) by Guy Debord<BR>    <BR>    * The Situationist City by Simon Sadler<BR>    * Situationist International Anthology by Ken Knabb<BR>* Lipstick Traces: A Secret History of the 20th Century by Greil Marcus     * The Tribe by Jean-Michel Mension, Donald Nicholson-Smith (Translator)<BR>    * May '68 and Its Afterlives by Kristin Ross<BR>    * Considerations on the Assassination of Gérard Lebovici by Guy Debord, Robert Greene<BR>    Revolution of Everyday Life<BR>by Raoul Vaneigem)<BR>* Beneath the Paving Stones: Situationists and the Beach, May 1968<br />.	2002-09-25
US	49789211	RL6W3NW33OWJZ	0399148701	17508097	Red Rabbit	Books	1	1	2	N	N	Laughably bad,unless you actually paid for this.	Tom Clancy has made himself into a multimillionaire by writing high tech, sometimesexcellent[Red October] often banal[Clear and present danger} Thrillers. His alter ego, Jack Ryan, is supposed to be an everyman[who happens to buy stock in Starbucks on the ground floor, with his ususal preternatural sense of goings on]but who is as realistic as James bond. this soporific thriller,is about ,allegedly, the Attempt on HH John Paul II by and agent of the Bulgarian secret Police operating under orders form Andropov and the KGB. Sigh. Besides Claire Sterling having done this as non-fiction and better[though euqally loose with facts],Clany gives us his other novels as product placement throughout the novel. Perhaps he thought it was clever. Or done with a wink and a nod. Either way, it is insulting.I thought the KGB files showed that Agca was NOT acting under the guise of the KGB? This book, the first third, is a valentine to Ronald Reagan{and The Pope,sort of for his anti-communism, anyway]. The suspense is not there[we know the pope lives,etc.The writing is so insipid that I either think Mr clancy let someone else write this, or someone else wrote the HUNT FOR RED OCTOBER.Save yourself the [money]and buy something like Alan fursts BLOOD OF VICTORY , and treat yourself to real spy fiction. This is terrible, excreable stuff, and Mr clany, if he had any shame,would never had published this .	2002-09-25
US	49789211	R1FN46S75OOMKT	0393316262	306710036	The Coral Sea	Books	5	15	17	N	Y	Gorgeous lush prose/poem	Patti Smith his come aways since HORSES. Or maybe not very far at all. Lurking beneath the poet/punk of the famous mapplethorp cover was a woman of  profoundly mystical bent. In this, a fable and an elegy , for Robert as she writes in the dedication, Patti smith imagines a man searching for the southern cross, and a man dying. Each of the very short capters are accompanied by a mapplethorpe photograph. Profound, wrenching prose, which caused me to wince in pain and recognition, and ultimately, which delivers a coda to a life. This is amazing stuff, the kind of book that should be passed to loved ones wrapped in a ribbon of silk,, cherished as a gift. It is that good. It moved me like few books have in my life.Nothing in Patti smiths work had prepared me for the overwhelming beauty of this book. A staggering book of wonder.	2002-07-09
US	49789211	RZZJKOZZHIZQ6	0393316866	542928634	Imagine the Angels of Bread: Poems	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Electrifying Poetry	At it's best, poetry illuminates the soul, bring the day to day up to the level of the angels.Martin Espada is an astonishing poet,and his books raise consciousness without becoming agitprop. The Title poem which serves as an introduction,is a scalding brilliant manifesto for all the dispossesed&quot;This is ther year that squatters evict landlords/gazing like admirals from the rail of the roofdeck or levitating hands in praise of steam in the shower;/this is the year that shawled refugees deport judges/who stare at their swollen feet as filed are stamped with their destination/...&quot; The poems that follow are equally superb,describing his father on a picket line, an owl in a tenament compared to God,Thomas jefferson and the declaration of food stamps, and others. Mr. Espada is a major poet , and a very very good one. His imagery is first rate,his fire and suppleness apparent in each poem. A wonderful collection by a superb poet and observer. Highest recommendation!	2002-06-04
US	49789211	R3PIZW2HAJ1C1X	1565846451	709034835	The Voice of Memory: Interviews 1961-1987	Books	5	11	11	N	Y	Astonishing, hopeful then crushing in its finality	Primo Levi{of Blessed memory], was one of the great writers of the past half century. Memoirs{survival at Auschwitz},fiction{the monkeys wrench,If not now, when] essayist[The Drowned and the saved, his magum opus} and Reawkenings, his description of life from the liberation of the camps until he finds his way back to his beloved Turin, Italy[where he lived ,save those years in the camps, all his life. A chemist by trade,amy believe his best work to be THe Periodic Table, whre he begins each \\"story\\" named after one of the elements. I have read all of Mr. levi, and he is one of the few, very very few, writers or people that I hold in awe.I have two earlier collection of interviews that he gave,though none carries the sheer inclusiveness of this collection.These interviews take place over a 26 year period,and are grouped into specific catergories.Part 1 is ENGLISH ENCOUNTERS,interviews in Englan, with English new agencies or with English writers. Part 2 isLIFE,interviews about Mr. levis life.Part 3 is BOOKS, interviews regarding Mr. levis published works.Part 4 is LITERATURE and WRITING,interviews regarding the art and craft.Part 5 is AUSCHWITZ and SURVIVAL,a group of interviews and one essay, the preface to IF THIS IS A MAN, what is my favorite  non fiction among Mr levis work. Part 6 is  JUDAISM and ISRAEL,a series of thoughtful,painful hopeful interviews on the subject,perhaps all the more relevant and poignant due to the recent neverending hatred going on there on both sides.How i wish to hear Mr levi's calm gentle words on the current state of things. The astonishing thing that I carried from these interviews was Mr Levis lack of bitterness or rancor. The coda, of course is that Mr levi commited suicide in 1987,at last a victim to the HOLOCAUST which he so valiantly fought to memory. At lifes end, he found himself forgetting details of his life{early alzheimers?} and was forgetting his time in the camps,was forced to read and re-read to remember what he had just read. In the drowned and the saved,he speaks of the growing movement to de sacralize the holocaust, to downplay its uniqueness, and how the guards at the capms would taunt him by tellig  him\\"no one will believe you, or remember.\\" Thanks to people like Primo Levi, that will not happen. A brillaint absolutely essential book by a good and great man.HIGHEST POSSIBLE RECOMMENDATION	2002-05-08
US	49789211	R24T5FMQW7EGFK	193108209X	699860182	Baseball: A Literary Anthology	Books	5	12	16	N	N	Library of america  shows its usual excellence	The Library of america,which has been publishing its wonderful series for over 20 years, has now added this colllection{, edited by Nicholas dawidoff,author of The Catcher was a spy:A biography of Moe berg}. Baseball anthologies are present by the truckload.What seperates this volume is its sheer inclusiveness;from the usual suspects John Updike on Ted Williams,Ernest Lawrence Thayer's casey at The bat,Roger kahn on the Boys of Summer, Roger angell on the 1975 epic world series  to  the unknown James Weldon Johnson on mysterious pitching as a young man,Jimmy Breslin from his hilarious book on the 1962 Mets, Can't Anybody Here Play This Game?,to Stephen King's lovely Head Down,the great midwetern novelist J.F. Powers is represented here, as is Red Smith,Jerome Holtzman, Damon Runyon,paul Gallico and Nelson Algren. There is a great piece by Molly O'neill,the former NY Times food critic on her brother Paul[late of the yankees]. there is even poetry,appropriately for a litery collection:Franklin P Adams with the second most famous baseball poem,{after Casey at the Bat]Baseballs sad lexicon, William Carlos williams has 2 poems, the crowd at the ball game, and 4Th of July doubleheader,Pulitzer prize winner Yusef Komunyakaa checks in with Glory,as does martin Espada with rain delay,toledo mudhens,july 8,1994. From Richard ford to Phillip Roth, bart Giamatti to the great Murray Kempton,there is something here for all tastes[except stastistic fans,this is a literary anthology.] Very well done, with the usual Library of america sewn binding and acid free paper. Superb and Hugely recommended!!!!!!!	2002-04-03
US	49789211	R3545QF56WE8AB	0814712509	908565022	And Gently He Shall Lead Them: Robert Parris Moses and Civil Rights in Mississippi	Books	5	3	4	N	Y	A TRUE AMERICAN HERO	IN this time of increased jingosim and nationalism,when dissent is called dishonor and treason[by the current Attorney General of the United States}, this book is like a balm. Robert Parris Moses is a certifiable HERO,and is a character drawn almost by his philosophical champion, the great Algerian exixtentialist and Noble Laurete, Albert Camus. Moses went to Mississippi in the early 1960's, in Mccomb county and began the torturous process of registering people to vote.Slight, in his horn rimmed glasses, with white T shirt under his bib overalls, Moses tirelessly and fearlessly went up against crooked judges, Klukers and corrupt  and racist law enforcement, and slowly[with the eventual aid of the Justice department and John Doar, who ,though a republican, was also the justice dept. lead lawyer in the impeachment proceedings against President Richard m. Nixon}, registered voters, and changed the shape of american history. With his backround in philosophy}[from Harvard} and a steely determination to do the right thing, Moses at times singlehandely carried on, living with local balck families in Hamlets throught Mississippi.One of the few memebers of the civil rights movement was was not in the least bit awed by Martin Luther King,jr.[perhaps beacuse he knew himself to be the equal of any man} he sallied forth under pressure and fear that I literally cannot comprehend. this is a fine book about a period of american history that should be celebrated,not consigned to february alone. It was a tuime when politicians thought they could \\"possibly\\" cahnge things, and far more importantly, when people such as Mr. Moses felt it was imperative for they themselves to change things. My Admiration for Mr.Moses is second to no one. He, along with John Lewis, are certifiable living heroes,men who make me proud to be american. This book, then is one  way to get to know this great, yes,great man. HIGHEST POSSIBLE RECOMMENDATION!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!	2002-02-18
US	49789211	R3OWFMGEIXNTC8	0553346113	189578921	Sam Shepard : Seven Plays (Buried Child, Curse of the Starving Class, The Tooth of Crime, La Turista, Tongues, Savage Love, True West)	Books	5	17	20	N	N	Brutally honest americana	Sam Shepard is an american original. I first encountered his work at the Public theater in NYC in the early to mid-70's. Then having seen Buried Child, i knew I had to read his work. His language is spare, tough and elagaic, like Cormac mcCarthy's novels of the southwest. The best work hee oare the first three plays: True West, Buried Child and Curse of the Starving class.Shepard is a poet of the interior,his convaluted families express despair over hideous personal tagiedies{Buried Child] or their own inability to love{True West]. Shepeard use of language is interesting. It is its strongest when it reflects the rhythm of a place or time,{curse of the Starving Class} and ,for me at least, is most evocative  of a place either real or imagined,very much Shepard country.{I saw a young John Malkovich in a Shepard play} Now far better known for his acting{The right stuff, et, al],when Buried child first premiered, he was still a poet/playwrite living out west who refused to fly and who was commisioned by Bob Dylan to write a screenplay for his abortive Rolling Thunder Review movie, Renaldo and Clara...Brilliant,Blistering theatre,that has held up well these 20 years. A True American Master.HIghest possible Recommendation.	2002-02-10
US	49789211	RWKSVZKLBAHSY	0445408553	944597895	The confession of Brother Haluin : the fifteenth chronicle of Brother Cadfael, of the Benedictine Abbey of Saint Peter and Saint Paul, at Shrewsbury	Books	5	2	3	N	Y	Good in this series	The confessions of Brother Haluin is another in ellis peters series of mystery tales set in a Benedictine monastery In Civil War England in the late 1130's and 40's. the main characters are Brother Cadfael, a former Crusader who enetered the monastery late in life[age 40] his chief nemisis Prior Robert tennat[who is a strict by the book prior] ,the Priors ferret like assistant,brother Jerome, and the Abbot,Radulfus,who stands above the fray[and always sides with Cadfael] Cadfeal is a renown herbalist,and is forever off helping some sick or downtrodden individual. He has a herb garden where he is able to get a respite,and where some of the more intersting dialogue occurs. Hugh Beringer is the Sherrif of the Shire{he was introduced in the second book, one corspe too many]and Cadfaels staunch ally and dearest friend{Cadfael is godfather to The Beringers son, Giles}. Cadfael, by virtue of his long stint abroad, is far more worldly then his fellows, and by default is an ametuer sleuth. In this volume, the deep winter has decended upon the town of Shrewsbury. the heavy snows are imperelling the roofs of the monastery enclosure, and some monks are snt, in shifts[due to the intense cold] to repair the problem.Brother Haluin,a calligrapher of the highest order[and perpetual penitent] has an accident, and confesses what he believes is a deathbed confession to the Abbot and Brother Cadfeal. He recovers, though mangled for life, and sets out on a pligrimage to make amends for his wrongs, and of course, Cadfael accompanies him...things,of course ,do not turn out quite as expected. ZThis is a fine addition to the series,the writing is still fine, the scenes of 12th century england gripped in a mad civil war are well done, and the deep, profound wisdom and compassion of Cadfael shine forth, making him one of the more appealing creations in modern crime fiction. In all, good great fun,and excellent book in the series	2002-02-10
US	49789211	R2I42W7Z0ASVNG	006018793X	998880928	Witness to Hope: The Biography of Pope John Paul II	Books	3	17	44	N	Y	Huge subject which exceeds the reach of the writer	One day, 20 years from now, someone will write a multi volumed biography of Pope john Paul II,similar to Gilberts magisterial[no pun intended] Churchill biographies, for example. When  the historical dust has settled, there will be copious biographies of this pontiff. For now, there stand three: Tad Szulacs steady JOHN PAUL II, THE BIOGRAPHY,The Late j Kwitneys fun, readable MAN OF THE CENTURY{the only one written by a non catholic] , though poorly edited, its footnotes were often in error and this one from George weigel,WITNESS TO HOPE. Now, I fervently wanted to love this book. I find John Paul II to be the only SHakespearean character on the world stage, save for Mandela.A man with so many facets that he is almost round,he has captivated my imagination since his election in 1978. Each major[and minor] biography of him has been enlightenening in some way, and i thought this one would be ,well, something that it was not. I am so weary of people using nonfiction to get across their tired political views[left and right bore me equally]. Mr weigel, a right wing republican, has his own political agenda.Now with the success, he has his own little JPII cottage industry. Fine. I simply wished someone would get it done correctly,though it appears that only Tzulac of thge three biographers had the courage to take on the contradictions of this giant.{all three offer enourmous affection for the subject.} Now, then, to this book.At over 1000 pages, it has the heft of a tome. and Mr weigel takes his task rather seriously, so there was some promise,but...Perhaps Mr weigel is simply not a good enough writer to cover this subject{though by his pronouncements, he seems to THINK he is}. The man who emerges from this book is SO self assured, so forthright, so ceratin of Gods message for him {and therefor us} that he seems,oh, unreal, like a creature from central casting. Saying that JOhn Paull is a mystic is well and good, how  does this affect the way he governs, as it were, the church at large? Does he look at the world through a poets or mystics[or both?]eyes, or that of a believing statesman? Does he really believe that everything he says and does is divinely inspired,leaving no room for the Holy Spirit to speak to others? Is he as intransigent as he apperas, or is that a front put on for public display? Why does he refuse to use a cane or hearing aid? Why the denial of parkinsons disease?In a world where fewer and fewer people care about the ever grwong chasm between haves and have nots, why is his the only consistent loud voice to bring nation states to task for their betrayal of the rights of the poor? How did growing up under the most hideous politcal philosphies implented during the 20th century affect his care for the downtrodden[after all, his audience in Poland is homogenous}?What oh what keeps him going in his 80's with parkinhsons disease , to manitain a schedule that would daunt just about anyone half his age? Is his charisma personal or one of office?Just how much influence does Opus Dei have with or over him,and why?{and after reading their literature, HOW?} Weigel sings the praises of the Reagan administration, though Tzulac and Kwitney both say that the Holy Father did not like RR at all,. John Pauls continual turn towards pacifism{blaming it on Bishop  Tauran somehow is disingenuous }is brushed over, as are any encyclycal that does not meet Mr weigels political stripe. Sigh...its too bad,really. The access that Mr. Weigel had is unprecedented[and probably, a more seasoned journalist would have taken some of what the pontiff said with slighly less acceptance and enthusiasm], and he seems to really be interested in presenting his own poltical point of view as opposed to the facts...This book has been absorbed by many Catholics, and Weigel has become something of an expert on JPII. Well...Workmanlike prose,a good great story spoiled by the authors political slant and inability to go beyond his own narrow world view.	2002-02-01
US	49789211	R2NN9ZA365K3VA	0892437790	938476142	Song for Nobody: A Memory Vision of Thomas Merton	Books	5	8	8	N	Y	A Terrific addition to Mertonia	Ron Seitz is a poet who was befriended by Thomas Merton during the last 10 years Of Mertons life. He recorded this \\"memory vision\\" about Merton, and it is a delight. He wonders early on why Merton seeks him out and confides in him, then a series of meetings over the final 10 years of his life are explained, full of imagery and delightful wordplay between the two poets. Setz is firm in his belief that Merton was first and foremost a poet, and a poet of the first order, and this is where the initial identification tales place. They became so close that it was Seitz who drove Merton to the Louisville airport as he began his \\"Asian Journey\\" which eventually led to his all to early death in Thailand  on Dec 10th, 1968. The volume is illustrated with many photographs by the author, and decribes some delightful anecdotal moments. Meton at a jazz club with the author and his wife, The author trying to impress Mertons publisher, the legendary j. laughlin of New Directions{and failing,miserably, until a wonderful musical moment brings it all together], merton and seitz meeting the wonderful minimalist poet {and Mertons best frind] Robert Lax, Merton doing an impromptu dance with Seitz three children around the dinner table to a Jimmy smyth organ piece,and toher such memories.Mention is made of the affair Merton had with margie Smith, a young nurse who attended him in a Louisville hospital after back surgery,without anything salacious... Seitz is a good writer,his memories are heartfelt and above all honest, and has honored his friend by this book. And us, too.	2002-01-30
US	49789211	RFLT2G3GH9DCQ	0743203399	269804839	The Wild Blue: The Men and Boys Who Flew the B-24s Over Germany 1944-45	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Good, though it appears shoddy in some parts	By now, the ruckus around THE WILD BLUE and Stephen Ambrose is still swirling...Instead of that, someone who edited this book should be brought into question. Mr ambrose has an inpressive body of work, and when this slim volume[for him] came out in the summer, I gave it a try.The utter herosim of these young men[all in their early 20's] to fly these B24's under appalling circumstances is vividly brought forthj, though it seems that Mr ambrose does concentrate too much on George McGovern's heroics.What does come forth is the basic decency of Mcgovern, how deeply he cared for the welfare of his men, and how periolous these missions were{McGovern flew the maximum allowed,no catch22 here]...when I finsihed this book, I though of people like GEORGE WILl  and others who have made a career of castigating McGovern{to the degree that Mcgovern name is an epithet for some of these&quot;people&quot;}. Then I looked up{on the web} and saw that NONE of these men served combat time, though all were draftable age during the war. Makes me wonder...either way, a fine book, second rate ambrose, though a fine tale of ordianry men asked to be extraordinary.	2002-01-30
US	49789211	R2SM1P32OCXS14	1886069530	854710925	The Bhagavad Gita: Its Feeling and Philosophy	Books	5	17	20	N	N	A very helpful Gita	The Bhagavad Gita is a series of instructions given by the Lord  Krishna to his friend Arjuna on the eve of a fratricidal war. Krisha brings the chariot to the center of the battlefield as arjuna surveys the field.Whether it is allegorical or historical, the verses that have followed are sacred lierature to 800 million hindus, and countless others [myself included] have taken great succor in their wisdom and grace.I received of copy of this Gita from the swami's ashram in California. The first thing I noticed was how well done the volume is. Heavy bonded paper, l0vely endpapers,three ribbon markers adorn the book. So it is pleasant to the eye and touch. Then I started the book. Swami B. V. Tripurari is a either former hare krishna or still one[cant tell] and he dedicates the book to the founder of the sect,Swami Prabhupada, the author of Bhagavad Gita as it is, the bestselling gita in the world, and the most difficult to read. Its purports are tough, esoteric and truthfully, difficult for me to read. This volume, is none of that.Perhaps it is the grace of Swami B. V. Tripurari being english speaking? Either way, the purports are not pedantic[blessedly] are clear, and attempt not only toconnect them with modern life[the perrenial philosophy] but puts the Gita in its historical context[this is not the first time that Krishna is at Kuruksetra,which is where the Bhagavad gita takes place]. Each verse is in Sanskrit, then broken down in a word by word englih trans;lation, then an explanation[or purport] of eACH VERSE IS GIVEN.His tone, again, in explaining each verse is easy, almost quiet, not overwhelming. Swami B. V. Tripurari seems to be less on a crusade then writing this for his own edification[as he states in his preface],though I think this somewhat self deprecating.i HAVE 15  OR SO GITA TRANSLATIONS THAT i OWN AND USE,FROM YOGANANDA'S MAMMOTH TWO VOLUME MASTERPIECE, TO THE LIVING GITA BY SRI SWAMI SATCHIDANANDA[WHICH IS MY FAVORITE], this volume can stand with any of them. It is very,very user friendly, its translation seems pretty good[Though the best translation,period is in Bhagavad Gita by WINTHROP SARGEANT, }.Swami B. V. Tripurari has done us a service withthis volume, obviously his labor of love. Very very well done, lovely to look at and to hold, and a blessing to read.	2002-01-18
US	49789211	R366LSI0F2DHFL	0688152856	449059423	Uncle Willie and the Soup Kitchen (Reading Rainbow Book)	Books	5	21	21	N	N	astonishingly poignant	Uncle willie and the soup kitchen is a beautiful,wonderful book to read with a child. It presents a young boy and his Uncle willie as he gathers food to prepare at a soup kitchen in which he works.The fact that Uncle Willie considers the denizens his guests, and not moochers or people looking for a handout is deeply moving.  No treacly sentiment,no preaching, this is a lovely story which made me cry upopn first reading it.I read it with my kids, and have pressed copies upon others since discovering it in a remainder bin! My first grade class adored it, and it stimulated a great discussion afterwards on hunger poverty and helping.Reaaly very well done.Moving gentle loving,belongs in every library.	2002-01-11
US	49789211	R2W8YQLKX2834V	0743444302	274083557	Full of Grace: An Oral Biography of John Cardinal O'Connor	Books	4	2	4	N	N	Lovely book, terrific writer,fawning memories	John O'Connor,late Cardinal Archbishop of New York, was a large figure on the political and religious landscape for almost 17 years. One time Hawkish military chaplain{his pro military stances influenced many of the documents that came out of the bishops conferences],he became bishop of scranton, Pa.,then very quickly{I mean real quickly} Archbishop of the largest archdiocese in North America. He sparred with polticians early{Publicly berating democats Mario cuomo and Geraldine ferraro for their pro-choice stands}though not republicans{though he did criticise R Guliani 's policies as viscious against the poor}, so often putting his foot in his mouth that all three of the major dailies began putting reporters at the Sunday 10 am mass. This collection, has nomne of that. O'connor was a vociferous supporter of the state of Israel, and is warmly remembered as such. He was also an avowed opponenet of homsexuality, and some of his worst moments came in trying to defend his position. He was also a man of great generosity, refusing to close any schools{no matter how poor they were]. begging, literally, begging some of the moneybags catholics{Simon, Grace, et,al. } for donations.He opened doors of catholic hospitals to aids patients{while condeming thier lifestyle. }In short, a man of immense contradictions, who died a slow, painful public death, and did so with great dignity, and without some of the macabre operatic flourishes of so public a demise. The best of these remembrances come from ordianry folks,not the politicians nor clergy{what on earth do youthink a priest of another bishop would say about him? Now if they gave archbishop rembert weakland of Milwaukee a free hand to discuss OConnors lack of support for him with this problems with rome, that would have been interesting]. In all, a well done,though curiosly unsatisfying collection, too much warm fuzziness, not enough exploration.For those who admired him,a very good book. see also Nat Hentoff's ear;lier Biography{also very flattering] for more sources. A loyal soldier of the church.	2001-12-14
US	49789211	R7VLNPYENHMI	1577311752	531804402	A Simple Monk: Writings on His Holiness the Dalai Lama	Books	5	1	4	N	Y	Lovely to look at, to hold...well done	HH The dalai Lama is a publishing industry unto himself. Nary an unpublished utterance has come forth in recent years,with mostly success. This volume is a tribute to the Dalai Lama,with gorgeous photos by Alison wright. Robert Thruman gives a rather quiet introduction , The Dalai Lama's mother, in an exerpt from her biography tells of how he was discovered,Spalding gray has a wonderful interview with some telling moments{descibing moments of doubt, violent thoughts and lust].Pico Iyer gives, for me, the best article in the book[the God in exile}and, throughout the volume, Alison wrights lovely photographs, of the dalai lama, of pilgrims prostrating themselves in prayer, of buddhist scripture lovingly pictured with some interesting quotes{TOM BROKAW&quot;I LOVE A LIVING GOD WITH A BIG HEART.&quot;}and some not so interesting{STEven Seagalon the religious political conection] compliment the essays Over all, a lovely gift beautifully presented, wonderful endpapers and binding. an overall pleasure to read and to own. Similar books are A SIMPLE PATH{Thorsons publishing} and Alison Wrights THE SPIRIT OF TIBET{Snow LIon publications}. Excellent.	2001-11-29
US	49789211	RG2GXVGPELIZR	1567511007	549407567	Fighting the Lamb's War: Skirmishes with the American Empire	Books	5	11	15	N	N	UNNERVING, PROPHETIC NON DRAMATIC telling of a life	Philip Berrigan,who beacame {in}famous for being the first Catholic priest jailed ON PRINCIPLE{for his destroying of draft files in Baltimore in 1967},has penned a sort of autobiography. Philip Berrigan has always been a huge burr in the side of everyone in power:religious superiors,wardens, govenment officials{his encounter with Rober McNamara during the war  is telling}et,al. He has courage that is beyond my comprehension,continually going forth to non violently protest the ongoing nuclear threat{often by hammering a submarine,or desnt the hollow nose cone od a missle, the pouring blood as a symbol over the objects] For these protest, he has served the majority of the past 30 years in tough penitentaries.What would make this talented handsome intelligent man do such things? The story that he tells, almost mundanely is captivating. Childhood on the Iron range in Minnesota,Stern Irish father and sweet,loving german mother,brood of brothers,athlete,decorated soldier in WWII[they didnt give medals out for laying in foxholes},the he joined the only Roman Catholic order dedicated to serving Black americans, the josephites.{S.S.J} His older brother Daniel,Jesuit priest and famous poet and peace activist,was his role model on this. Throughot the momoir, Phillip Berrigan recounts the good life and hrad times of the next 35 years of his life. His eventual leaving the priesthood, his marriage to Elizabeth McCallister{a former nun , which coused much idiotic tounge wagging back then},his three daughters, his life in Jonah House in Baltimore,Md.{a kind of catholic woker house}, and his dogged, relentless pursuit of the Gospel truth as he sees it. Whether or not one agrees with Berrigan{and in the current climate, thew number of sympathizers must have shruken dramatically}, his almost sisyphusian struggle is admirable. Time alone will decide whethere or not Philip Berrigan has been a prophet or not. What he is is a courageous,honorable man who is willing to put his life, NOT YOURS, on the line for his beliefs. Now that is quite extraordianry.Good book, well written{if almost purposely low-keyed},simply astonishing story.	2001-11-11
US	49789211	R3GYEVIPXK51K7	006065340X	598071688	Lives of the Saints: From Mary and Francis of Assisi to John XXIII and Mother Teresa	Books	3	20	34	N	N	Not bad, covered better by Robert Ellsberg	Fr. Richard Mcbrien is a relatively well known Catholic theologian who teaches presently at Notre Dame.{which has a lively theology department] In this volume, Fr Mcrien tries to update the calendar of saints by adding some new{John XXIII, MKGANDHI, Thersa of Calcutta}, along eith the usual, {FRancis, Dominc,etc.} The result is a mix...however, the reviewer who called Mcbrien an agent of the far  catholic left simply does not know what he speaking about. Mc Brien is a polite liberal,not a radical.Because he criticises Rome and is for the ordiantion of woman{the horror!}, he is labeled such. What nonsense. It is truly idiotic to think of Mcbrien as anything but a cautious liberal{he got into a row at Notre Dame with Stanley Hauerwas and Fr Michael Baxter, for instance over the catholic worker movement and there place in modern society. Hardly a radical's viewpoint]...this volume, by the way was much better done a few years ago by Robert Ellsberg called ALL SAINTS...much of the same territory was covered, but better,actually. Mc Briens Catholcism , his one volume magnum opus is still indespensibel {and much better written and accesible the the new Catechism}. In the end, not bad, not great,certainly nothing here is very imflamatory, only to the flat earth society who want to give their own bizzare litmus tests to everyone.	2001-10-30
US	49789211	R1C0T4BOL9E9DD	0140100466	1901973	Table Money	Books	5	7	10	N	N	Superb Breslin	Jimmy Breslin is one of those writers with whom people invaiably get their politics intertwined. A staple in NYC for 4 decades, his columns have stuck a burr in the saddle of the powerful for many years{and Jimmy lets you know that, too, which contributes to his persona}In table money, he looks , in microcosm at the irish immigrant expierence in America through one family, at the horrific cost of alcoholism, and at one truly heroic woman. There are no easy, quick fixes in this novel. Owens decent into alcohol is not pleasant ,the descriptions of the sandhogs{tunnel diggers} is brilliant, and lower middle class life in Queens was absoltuely dead on. I think in many ways this book was a homage to Breslins late wife, who put up with his alcoholism for many years{his eulogy was one of the more moving things I have read in my life}. I believe firmly that Breslin is one of the simply great writers of our time, after you get pst the Damon Runyon bit, and trully, almsot spectacularly underrated because of his politics. An excellent, moving novel, though since it touches on so many things that are persoanl with me, I can indentify very strongly with the characters. Anyway, an excellent, superbly written novel for an american original.	2001-10-10
US	49789211	R3QLB2DU7B49HB	080101204X	551011557	Solzhenitsyn: A Soul in Exile	Books	4	29	39	N	Y	Uncritical, flattering bio of a complex, uncompromising man	Alenandr Solzenitsyn is a man certainly worthy of full scale treatment by a biographer. DM Thomas' biography a couple of years ago was strangely unmoving,and barely mentioned Solzenitsyn's religious views, which are at the core of his beliefs. At one time.AI solzenitsyn was the darling of the right in America,a virulent anti-communist who scorned ANYTHING resembling a welfare state{his attacks on free-market capitalism was soft pedalded by these same people}.Slowly, though, he became more and more removed from the centre of attention, and his novels became more and more obscure{and ,truth be told,rambling and quite boring.The red wheel trilogy...}This Biography places solzenitsyn's religious beliefs front and centre and the core of his being{and the reason he was able to survive the hell of the gulag}. While these are quite interesting, and really have rarely been covered in the West, Solzenitsyn's disdain for the West, his dismissal of pope John Paul II during and audience,his Tsarist tendencies and his almost messianic xenonphobia are not touched{though all are of one piece.] Solzenitsyn in many ways reminds me of Gandhi{without the charm}: wanting Holy Mother Russia to rise again to her greatness without the taint of western Decadence through a spiritual revolution. While he is a moral giant and an extraordiany example of the resilience of the human spirit, he is not served well by fawning, uncritical praise. Alexandr I solzhenitsyn deserves a full ,massive critical biography covering all of his life{his return to Russia has been bittersweet,his tv show was canceled for LACK OF INTEREST.Amazing how short peoples memories are!} This is one small step in the process. Interesting,but...	2001-08-26
US	49789211	R2W3EXA1LI3WA2	1566491045	37116986	Raga Mala: The Autobiography of Ravi Shankar	Books	5	7	7	N	N	A Beautiful book, to read,hold look at. Simply lovely	Raga Mala is the autobiography of pandit Ravi Shankar,told in story,profusely illustrated{some in color}], beautifully bound {with luxurious endpapers], on high quality, beautiful papers. It tells his story{introduced by George Harrison} from his early childhood, stage[as a dancer in his brothers famous troupe] to his study of sitar and Hindustani music with a master{Khan},to his gradual emergence in the west. I had no idea, that he had performed at Carnegie hall in the 1930's, that John Coltrane's son ravi was named after him, ot that he was well known BEFORE the Monterey pop or woodstock concerts[he called woodstock&quot;terrifying'}. This is a wonderful book, it tells the ENTIRE ARC of the life of pandit Ravi Shankar{including his apparent heir and pupil, his daughter Anoushka}, and does so with such a well put together volume. The papers, the binding, the photographic reproductions are exquisite. The publisher has done a remarkable job. A classic book, both in form and content.	2001-07-26
US	49789211	RGO2JF06CJGT8	0670896713	561923779	Live in a Better Way: Reflections on Truth, Love and Happiness	Books	5	15	18	N	Y	Another Jewel from HH dalai Lama	This is a suprisingly deceptive book,deceptive in its depth,breath and scholarship. HH the dalai lama has been recorded and transcribed profusely, yet much of what he says comes off as fresh,and worth repeating. This is a series of lectures thah hh dalai lama gave in new dehli over a period of a few years. there  is an essential introduction given by lama thubten zopa rinpoche,that illuminates the historical context of the talks, and further explains the backround of Tibetan Buddhism. Then we get to the talks themselves,from Transforming the mind to how to live and die in a better way[my personal favorite of this group},all of which encompass  learning and compassion. This is not as easy a read as ,say THE ART OF HAPPINESS, though in many ways the rewards are much deeper. The simplicity is not simplistic,which is a rather neat trick.Read it slowly, savor it, and I have found, as with any such text, the rewards are great.Life affirming and a profound blessing.	2001-06-14
US	49789211	R379SSW9XWYGJP	1556432232	210735564	Blooming in the Desert: Favorite Teachings of the Wildflower Monk Taungpulu Sayadaw	Books	5	7	8	N	Y	Hard won wisdom from a relativley unknown master	Taungpulu Sayadaw was a burmese forest monk{one who lives in the Forests in southeast asia,literaly meditating} who came to the United States in the late 1970's, and established the first Burmese Buddhist Temple in the United States.This gentle master of the Theravada tradition passed on his teachings , some of which have been lovingly recorded here by Anne Teich. These are not soft, new age readings,but straightfoward teachings that come staright to the herat of the matter.Chapters[some are only a paragraph long, others several pages long] such as UNWHOLESOME CONDUCTS,SAINTHOOD AND NIBBANA and THE HINDRANCE OF SENSUAL DESIRE are up front and not easy{the Sayadaw ,though coming off as quite gentle,doesnt seem to be interested in softening his message to make it palatable to the west. More's the better] Andrew Harvey contributes a short preface,and Ms. Teich gives us an excellent introduction. A very,very good primer on Buddhism from one considered by many to be a saint, a bodhisattva. Deserves to be more widely read,very very good, though the message is not easy...Excellent.	2001-06-14
US	49789211	R2UWIE1MR63QDN	0874779928	791402457	Son of Man: The Mystical Path to Christ	Books	5	55	58	N	Y	Mystical Christ	Andrew Harvey is an excellent writer who has covered everything from outposts of Buddhism in Ladakh to transalations of the Sufi genius Rumi. In this book,which arches at being a modern version of The imitation of Christ,he puts forth of image of Jesus as THE mystic,the Alpha and Omega of existence.It succeeds much of the time.The historical Jesus presented is lacking somewhat, though the book picks up in part 2, the mystical Christ. Some people,especially those of a literal bent, wuould be slightly put off in the section Christ and the sacred feminine.The final section of the book, The Direct Path to Christ is a series of meditations and &quot;exercises&quot;,which are worth the price of the book alone.Mr. Harvey believes that we need no intermediaries between us and God, and that Jesus shows us this way. The traditional harrangue against Christianity is softened by Mr. Harvey's genuine passionate love of Christ. There are lovely phtographs by Eryk Hanut throughout, which actually enchance the pleasure of this book. Not an easy read,{Mr. Harvey rarely is}, this is a book menat to be read and taken slowly, to draw deeply from this source. This book is quite beautiful, and is and important addition to any spiritual library. This is an important and wonder-filled book, and is hugely recommended.	2001-06-12
US	49789211	R3PJABSDPZQQZM	0060654856	31492189	Learning to Love: Exploring Solitude and Freedom (The Journals of Thomas Merton Vol. 6)	Books	5	38	42	N	Y	A Brilliant Honest man	here is the volume that was much anticipated, the volume of Thomas Merton's diaries that dealt with his &quot;love affair&quot; with a young nurse, Margie Smith. By this point in the diaries, Merton has become a full time hermit{as someone once remarked, the busiest,most voluminous hermit in history. Or,as Merton wrly titled one of his diaries, A VOW OF CONVERSATION}. Moving further away from the obdient young novice of volume 2,Merton as always in full tonged battles with his Abbot,James Fox,,has been exploring eastern religions,trying to find the center which unites all. Then, he goes to a louisville hospital to have back surgery,and falls deeply in love with a young nurse. Always honest with himself,Merton knows where this is heading, and knows, even in his early entries, that this will not end well for her. There is a sweet episode when Joan Baez arrives,and after Merton tells her about his new love, insists that they drive straight away to Loiuisville to go to her{they do not.}There is nothing salacious here,and Merton comes to grips with his poor treatment of woman in his early life{he had fathered a child in London, and mother and son had died during the blitz in WWII},and finds another side in himself. Interspersed within this is the usual Merton gold, the ability to see through modern problems for what they are{fleeting}, and come up with crystalline insights{his commenst on his prayer life while he is essentialy leading ,for him, a compromised life, are very interestin.] This is top flight Merton, now on the top step, cleansed and looking east,where on the horizon, is the next and last volume, and the Asian journey. Essential,non-sensational,always edifying.	2001-06-11
US	49789211	RO4AZE7LVNWKI	038549792X	928933773	Rabbi Jesus: An Intimate Biography	Books	3	37	45	N	Y	Interesting, though not even close to Vermes in  study	Bruce Chilton has added his voice to the neverending story. Weighing in on the Jewish side of Jesus, Chilton here presents Jesus as a troubled bastard son which weighs heavily on him and throughout the entire tome. Where Mr. Chilton is at his best is where he relies on his scholarship[placing Jesus birth in anothe bethlehem],presenting an interesting take on the infancy narratives. Where Geza Vermes relies on scholarship, Mr. Chilton edges at times toward  flights of fancy,literally putting thougfhts in Jesus head{risky at best} entering the Kaballah into the fray{riskier],and putting unsubstantiated conjecture on the &quot;missing years' of Jesus life. Where Mr. Chilton does well, is in putting a new look on old {the last supper]. Where he does not, is in trying to explain what he cannot support. Interesting, a decent read,though Geza Vermes and John Meir cover the same grtound, and in far better books.	2001-06-11
US	49789211	RS88PCELP1B1H	1570628130	276924479	Saffron Days in L.A.: Tales of a Buddhist Monk in America	Books	5	9	10	N	N	sweet,gentle stories from this good monk	Bhante Walpola Piyananda is a sri lankan monk who came to the united states on,of all days,july 4,1976.{there is a humorous account of this in this volume] He has been the spiritual advisor and friend to countless southeast asian immigrants,and westerners who are attracted to the middle path. This volume is a collection of vignettes that he has collected through the years,all the while gently inflecting Buddhist teachings . From confrontations with a gang, to a cuckold husband, to a &quot;hopeless &quot;alcoholic, Bhante is there with compassion and wisdom. There is a lightness here, not a lack of depth ,but a freshness lacking western cynicism that is both invigorating and assuring. There is no magic here,no easy way to nirvana passed out to gullible desperate people. Bahnte grounds himself seriuosly in Buddhist scripture,and the result is a delight and,well enlightening. Well done, a decpetively easy read and a very interesting monk.	2001-06-11
US	49789211	R2AFUFZMNSPKJR	082481777X	911753749	Great Fool: Zen Master Ryōkan; Poems, Letters, and Other Writings	Books	5	9	12	N	Y	The  essential Zen poet	Ryokan,a great zen monk who dubbed himself&quot;the great fool&quot; is one of the most revered figures in all Japan. As a wandering begging monk{one robe, a bowl and walking stick} Ryokan celebrates the quotidian,whether a stong pot of tea, sake,playing ball with village children,or the warming embers of a dying fire in the midst of Winter,he makes these images come alive,with vibrancy and suppleness. This volume conatins remembrances of Ryokan from contemporaries,disciples,students and those he met along the way. Along with his Reflections on Buddhism,this volume also contains a very helpfulessay, a poetics of mendicancy by ryuichi abe`,and another essay by ab`,commemorating ryokan. the introductory essay by peter haskel, ryokan of mount kugami puts ryokan in his historical perpective. However, above all, it is the pure airy poetry of the master himself.Cleansing and wonderful...	2001-06-11
US	49789211	R265M7ICTITFPW	0060654775	827458752	2: Entering the Silence: Becoming a Monk and a Writer (The Journals of Thomas Merton)	Books	5	23	24	N	N	Brilliant early Merton	Thomas Merton's journals take up here in the momonastery in Gethsemani abbey in Kentucky in the 1940&quot;s. An expurgated version of these entries has previously been published as THE SIGN OF JONAS,my personal favorite before the publication in the late 1990's of these unexpurgated diaries.Here we see the dutiful young monk, full of the zeal of the newly converted, seeing all of his brothers as &quot;signs of God's wonder and Mercy.&quot; Needless to say, the tomne shifts slightly  as the aura of conversion wears a bit, and Merton is given time to write. One of his most famous pieces done while he was on watch in the abbeys fire tower is included here, without the editing. Firewatch in and of itself is worth the price of the book. We begin to see here Mertons wish for a life of more seclusion, and here he mentions the Carthusians and the camaldolese as possible places he could find that solitude.{a wish that he held,apparantly until the end of his life]Merton's insaitable curiousity,his honesty in dealing with himself and his foibles, and his crystaline perceptions on the life of the spirit are being formed here in this volume. Indispensible for Merton fans, and welcomed to any who seek the path trod by a spiritual giant, and a very honest man.	2001-06-04
US	49789211	R3WNBKOOEXUPV	0312266812	429408604	John Paul II: A Personal Portrait of the Pope and the Man	Books	4	5	7	N	Y	Not bad,non objective,best for the already converted	John Paul II is a publishing indusrty unto himself, Either his own dense,sometimes obtuse tomes or the cottage industry of mostly fawning books about his pontificate. Enter Ray Flynn,former mayor of Boston and ambassador to the vatican. Filled with anecdotes going back to Cardinal Cushing,this is a pleasant,undemanding read that somehow seems more honest in its admiration than George weigel's smarmy &quot;official&quot; biography.Flynn make no claims to objectivity,nor does he claim to be penning a critical biography. It is a memoir of a man and his time and his family, quite Irish in its own right. For the legion of JPII fans,this is wonderful. To the Legion of JPII detractors,more grist for the mill. For those of us in between,an enjoyable book.	2001-05-30
US	49789211	REE2N8VJOTLII	0006511309	836911555	Night Soldiers	Books	5	26	29	N	N	Excellent	Espionage thrillers  {the well written ones,anyway} are always compared to John le Carre. These books are different, more of a crooss between Graham Greenes morally ambiguous thrillers and Charles Mccarry's wonderful Paul Christopher series, and are quite brilliant.  In NIGHT SOLDIERS ALAN FURST takes up the sweep of WWII in europe through the eyes of a Bulgarian named Khristo  Stoianev.{Night soldiers are spies.} After watching Fascist militia stomp his brother to death, Stoianev embarks on a journet through Russia,barcelona and Madrid in republican Spain, Vichy France, and eventually,back home. The narrative is filed with fascinating historical oddities{the Sovites in Spain robbing 64 million pounds in gold from Spain, then decaring two days later to have discovered massive reserves in the Urals} the labrynith of the NKVD duplicity{the way they set traps is brilliantly presented}.Mr. Furst has obviously done massive research on the history of this era, and it shows. the Spanish civil war in all its crazed glory is etched perfectly, as again the Soviets play games with their own. This is an excellent book,written from the perspective of one of the lesser known countires involved{bulgaria}. Morally unsure if not ambiguous,this is front rank writing, Period.Highy recommended	2001-05-30
US	49789211	R39NOUQJ6NL9Y	0375502793	992500396	American Patriots: The Story of Blacks in the Military from the Revolution to Desert Storm	Books	5	18	20	N	N	Overdue,exhaustive,and very ,very well doneI	In AMERICAN PATRIOTS, Gail Buckley has given us a gift in the form of a history lesson:the contributions of African Americans in the military. Though long ignored{Spanish American War} or sactified{The 54th Mass. Regiment in the civil war}, this   very well written book will serve as a corrective to both. The footnotes are copious,but it is the sidebar stories that linger on: the first  black drill instructor in the Marine Corps, the first black general{BENJAMEN O DAVIS} and his travails,Lemuel Haynes,a miltiaman from CT. in the revolutionary war,and others. Nor does Mrs. Buckley skirt over the issue of treatment of soldiers after the wars{the Spanish_American war veterans were particularly horribly treated},nor the rah-rah jingoism of the Gulf war{the much fawned over  Norman Schwarzkopf comes off as a meglomaniacal gasbag,in comparison to Colin Powell .George Bush Sr. comes off very well, especially compared to Ronald Reagan}. The old saying of God is in the deatils holds very true here, The modern surprises are in the detailing of the Korean war and Vietnam,where Black soldiers served {and died}in disproportionate numbers. The prose is clean and clear, and Mrs. Buckley never loses sight of what she is trying to do. I do not know who does curriculum in high schools and colleges, this is one volume I would suggest belong in any discussion of American History. HUGELY RECOMMENDED!!!	2001-05-23
US	49789211	R3ANUZLHY4SWL4	1562790412	534616757	Road to Heaven: Encounters with Chinese Hermits	Books	5	38	40	N	Y	Startling and hopeful	Bill Porter,a.k.a. Red Pine is a wonderful tranlator of poetry.  His collected songs of Cold mOuntain and Stone House are cherished companions. When I came upon this book, it intrigued me: hermits STILL living in China? Well Red Pine and his friend Steven Johnson go forth into some extraordinary parts of China{including a heavily fortified area near the main nuclear works of China} to find some astonishing people. Some of the temples were still functioning,most had been decimated by Maos cadres during the Cultural revolution. Still the air of hope is there. Old Taoists' lving alone for years upon years,almost completely disassocaited from the turbulence of the past 50 years. Mostly it is a remarkable story of hope,of faith and belief held together through some of the most horrific suffering ever inflicted on a civilization. The cover Photograph , of an aged nun praying is haunting and quite beautiful, as are most of the photos which accompany the text. Bill Porter lets these remakable people do the talking, and does not posture or place himself unduly into the stories{which is refreshing in and of itself} Highly recommneded!	2001-05-22
US	49789211	R29KMT0KM26UDZ	1569472424	377475451	Death of a Red Heroine (An Inspector Chen Investigation)	Books	5	13	15	N	N	excellent,flavorful mystery	Death of a Red Heroinetakes a police procedural to a new place: Modern china. Inspector Chen Cao is a poetry writing and loving special investigator,and here he lands a dangerous case. The &quot;model party worker&quot; who is fishes out of the water is not what she appears to be,and the inspector must go against his superiors and the &quot;party interests&quot; to solve the case. All of this is pretty mundane in this genre, though the locale,the heavy stench of mao and the cultural revolution linger throughout,along with the marvelous meals, and the excellent descriptions of daily life in &quot;modern ' China. The delicacy of chinese manners comes across very well, the sexual retinence,the deep repect of elders still alive. Part sociology,part history mostly a damn good read. Unlucky in love,lucky in work, inspector Chen Cao is an interesting addition to the genre .The novel has many conventional mystery formulas, then takes different turns. Highly recommended!	2001-05-21
US	49789211	RYIHWQNXJFJ6F	0809137925	68402080	Nazarena: An American Anchoress	Books	5	24	26	N	N	a well written book about a difficult life	This is a book that startles you with an account of a life of faith and sacrifice. Thomas Matus is a camaldolese monk{a branch of the benedictine order} who found himself literally stumbling upon this story.A happy well adjusted young american girl named Julia crotta had a mystical vision summoning her to the desert. the desert for her became a small room in a camaldolese monastery in Italy where she lived as a hermit{or anchoress} the next 45 years. Fr. Matus{author of the vey interesting Romulald and the Five Brothers, a history of the origins of the camaldolese order] tells his tale without the nod and wink of &quot;moderrn&quot; sensibilities. He BELIEVES in  what sister Nazarena felt, so he begins his tale from that angle.No other angle would make sense] This is an almost uncomfortable story of faith,where someone gives up LITERALLY everything for their faith. Her life in the convent was not one of luxoury or ease[she made it more rigorous,anyway} This is the story of one who took the gospel call seriously, and it the opposite of any fundamentalism. That is what makes me so uncomfortable, and what makes this book so memorable.A very unique perspective on faith ,and what it costs.	2001-04-30
US	49789211	R2WPE2W85SUKP7	0060929847	868213085	Our Town (Perennial Classics)	Books	5	18	20	N	N	Clean and spare	Our Town is, i would guess, the most produced stage play in america. You need no props,no singing,no dancing.It introduced of place,Grovers Corners,N.H. into the lexicon. The play though first produced in the late 1930's takes place in the early part of the 20th century. It tells the tale of two families, the Gibbs and the webbs,in love life and death{Wilder never skirted the issue of death in his writings&gt;}Its timlessness lies in the essence of wilders writings: how the simple ,the mundane taken together make us who we are, and how important the quotidian chores of daily existence are. The heartfelt exclamtion near the end of the play asking if human beings ever realize thier lives before it ends?  followed by the wise narrator's some saints and poets has stayed with me since childhood. An easy read, though not a simple one.Is this the great american play? Who knows.It is certainly great and good,and stands up very well almost 70 years later. Essential reading,on anyones list.	2001-04-27
US	49789211	R2EN3AT3F2FHFB	037572737X	200347372	American Tabloid	Books	5	54	61	N	N	Blistering,paranoid and brilliant	James Ellroy writes &quot;hard boiled&quot; fiction. If you hard boil an egg for about a week,perhaps. Ellroy inhabits a world all his own in crime literature. Having somehow survived a childhood from dantes seventh circle, he grew up to write these angry books where the bad guys are powerful white men{thinking of inherent power structures, he's quite correct}.American tabloid tells the story ,in all its vainglorious insanity, of that sweet time in Americana called &quot;Camelot&quot;. This riveting novel actually is a meditation on power, who has it, and what it does. Betrayal{Bay of Pigs, Kennedy blowing off a CIA agent, everybody BUT the Kennedy's racking Marilyn Monoroe, J edgar Hoover, Joe Kennedy, Howard Hughes} all amke appearances leading to Dealy Plaza. s always, Ellroys descriptive powers are unmatched in describing viloence{the Cuban cab front company has some interesting moments}, and no one, no one, comes off as good in this. A profoundly disturbing book, a meditation on power, America, and who really runs things.One of our better writers in any genre has written another would be classic. Very very well done . Highest recommendation.	2001-04-26
US	49789211	RDGS565U9GBQ4	0939443147	621000155	The Presence of the Kingdom	Books	5	70	80	N	N	The First book to read in the Ellul Canon	Jacques Ellul{he of blessed memory], is a difficult man to catagorize. Profound thinker,anarchist and Christian,member of the resistance during WWII,Prophet on technology and propaganda{no one,well few,listened] his writings are somewhat dense{similar in some ways to his countrywoman Simone Weil.}Ellul looks at EVERYTHING THROUGH THE LENS OF THE GOSPELS,therby alienating those who are genuinely opposed to religion.In this book he goes after Christian in the moders world, and the dangers in adapting Christianity to society{what William Stringfellow called reading scripture AMERICANLY},the horrifying results in putting technology{or his term TECHNIQUE}ahead of human considerations, and the implicit moral dilemas therein.He also, in another chapeter,elaborates on what he believes is a genuinely Christian lifestyle&quot;WE NEED A REVOLUTION, IN A WORLD WHERE IT HAS BECOME IMPOSSIBLE$Q. Ellul is not an easy read{not for me ,anyway} though he is rewarding and challenging. Certainly an antidote to tele-evangalism and fundamentalism, Ellul's writings, like Weil's, McLuhans{on technology and propaganda} and Barth's are difficult{and somewhat slow} and rewarding. HIGHLY&lt;HIGHLY RECOMMENDED!!!!!!!!!!!	2001-04-26
US	49789211	R5RTVLI3E6JT0	157075344X	124499657	The Raft is Not the Shore: Conversations Toward a Buddhist-Christian Awareness	Books	5	17	18	N	Y	Two gifted masters and friends	Thich Nhat Hanh and Daniel Berrigan, S. J. are longtime friends and soulmates. These conversations , taped in paris in the 1970's,show the depth and breath of their friendship and spirituality. After 26 years these conversations are still fresh,if not vital[vital is totally subjective].The Buddhist -Christian dialogue was not started by these men, though it was taken to a new level by these poets. Unlike many of these books,there is no need by either man to explain away  their beliefs nor make it so palatable to the other that all of the original tang is lost. This is more like two poets speaking at a cafe{which it was,in part} talking about their lives, and the forces and times in which they live.  Since I view these two men to be two of the best spiritual guides alive, this book is important and interesting and much much LIGHTER than the titile would suggest{.Also, of similar intetest,THE GETHSEMANI ENCOUNTER.} Excellent book by two giants	2001-04-21
US	49789211	R20CJGCMVPN4AU	0930467760	679929994	Easter Sourcebook the Fifty Days (Sourcebook Anthologies)	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	an excellent companion	An Easter soucebook is a companion for the 50 days between easter Sunday and Pentecost. Published by Liturgical Training of chicago, this is another in the terrific series that highlights the &quot;high&quot; liturgical seasons, the seasons of Advent, Christmas, Lent and Eastertide. This volume is actually slimmer than the volume for Good Friday alone{in the triduum sourcebook} It contains short readings from a variety of souces{Biblical readings, church fathers,TS ELIOT. For the 4th day of Easter{a representative day] the readings are: Genesis,thomas merton,joseph addison[18th century poet]psalm 19,- Johm 9:1-7,Francis of assisi,charles wesley,joshua10,isiah 60,and balthasar fischer.You probably cant do much better than this compilation. Another excellent job from Liturgy Training Publications.	2001-04-18
US	49789211	R1TIE7UKRGMSFA	0375703470	330767071	For the Time Being	Books	5	15	17	N	N	more excellence from one of the more interesting thinkers	Annie Dillard had inhabited a place close by since PILGRIM AT TINKER CREEK.Her observations about natute and God are quirky,interesting and lovely to read. I was once at a reading  of hers'{in NYC} where a member of the audience asked her&quot; Yes, but do you really believe in God?&quot; Dillard responded with&quot;of course I do ,honey, do you think this is Europe?&quot;Her ability to bring faith and reason together is extremly rare in this time when it seems to be either fundamentalism or secular humanism.In these essays, she dleves into child deformities or birth defects{an extremely difficult chapter for me to read,by the way},Israel,death,the sky{clouds} and Pere Pierre Teilhard de Chardin,Jesuit paleontologist,theologian and truly original thinker.{in a way you get the impression that Ms. Dillard finds him a kindred soul.}These are full bodied essays of a courageous thinker and believer, struggling with  day to day belief while being filled with awe. A stunning collection by a superb writer and a good woman.	2001-04-11
US	49789211	RSHYA59JL68RD	0156421178	802050474	Homage to Catalonia	Books	5	1	2	N	Y	this is orwells true classic	George  Orwell has become a literary and political icon for so many causes it must make him spin in his too early grave.The left loved him {the road to wigan pier} the right posthumously embraced him {animal fram and 1984}. The truth is, as always more elusive, and less obvious. Orwell was a socialist,which in the land of the free and the brave is always tarred with the same brush as soviet  communist{of course}. Orwell grew up in a society of severe class distinction{more pronounced than in America},and despised class distinction. So, like many left leaning folks in the 1930's he went offto Spain to fight in the great conflict between right and left. What began as a coup by Fascists led by Franco turned into 3 years of savage butchery{on ALL sides} that eventually led to 50 yeARS OF FASCIST RULE.Orwell spares no one{even himself,true to form} in this account.The little descriptive moments that enliven this sad account{the sign in a barcelona resturant,please do not insult us by tipping}, the description of various kinds of body lice as lies lies, wet and cold in the trenches are perfect Orwell moments. Of course, Orwell was wounded, and later,incredibly,labeled a memeber of a por-fascist element and had to literally run fo his life.Along with Simone Weil{who had similar expierences,being saved from death by her own awkwardness, and equally disillusioned} and from the royalist side, the great French novelist Geroge Bernanos{he was revolted by the conduct of &quot;religiois&quot; people, and moved to South America} Orwell set the record straight on this war. Often thought of as a macarbe tone poem for WWII, this war had all of the elements of its won unique horrors.{The bombing of civilian populations,the mutilations of so many clerics,children being forced at gunpoint into conscription from both sides}Homage to Catalonia is , I think Orwell's greatest achievment.It destroys myths on both sides,as Orwell tries to find {in himself] the elusivethird way{between capitalism and communsim}. Searing, epochal,magnificent. Highest rating, absolutly essential reading !	2001-04-06
US	49789211	RMEHAG43WYVW7	0824513533	222904739	Show Me the Way: Daily Lenten Readings	Books	5	41	42	N	N	Excellent lenten tool from a wounded master	The late henri Nouwen, of blessed memory, was one of the mostinfluential spiritual writers of the last century .His writings are rarely academic,and often are quite personal. Therse selections are taken from many of Fr Nouwens writings, put together with the appropriate scipture reading of the day, and concluded with a prayer from Fr nouwen. Two pages long each day, this book has been a faithful companion the last 3 lenten seasons for me. Nouwens own foibles make all the more poignant the struggles he expresses during Lent. Powerful reading from a good great man.	2001-04-05
US	49789211	R1FL04VIMPWO6W	0883446669	279458573	Walk With Jesus: Stations of the Cross	Books	5	11	14	N	N	a very &quot;good&quot; walk	Fr Henri Nouwen and Sr  Helen David Brancato,IHM have combined their talents for this book of the stations of the cross.The Stations comemmorate the 14{or 15 it differs} Stations of the path to the Crucifixion of Jesus. Sr Helen david has updated this byusing contemporary scenes{in striking color drawings} ofa man in prison{ Jesus is condemned} a campesino carrying wood{Jesus cariies his cross}an abandoned vietnamese child{Jesus falls the first time},etc. Fr Nouwen then relates each picture to the station of the cross. Very powerful meditative reading. Simple,honest and quite beautiful.	2001-04-05
US	49789211	RXB86GWA8O6F7	1557252459	70964853	The Mystery of the Cross	Books	5	5	6	N	Y	excellent	George Basil Hume,O.S.B., of blessed memory, was a prince among men long before he was mad a &quot;prince&quot; of the Roman Church. These refelctions, given as mostly homilies{sermons] during,but not exclusively, Holy Week,are broken into 3 sections 1:Embracing mystery 2:Inner Peace 3:Celebrating mystery. Hume was singular among churchmen of his elevation in his common touch{owing somewhat to his benedictine training},and had a gift of speaking plainly. As he was also slwoly dying of cancer, these meditations are therefor more poingnant.He is especially good on the centrality of the cross, which,then makes this all the more appropriate during lent. A good book from a great man.	2001-03-29
US	49789211	R22UMZFSKF9NG6	0664253555	283990058	Parables as Subversive Speech: Jesus as Pedagogue of the Oppressed	Books	4	23	29	N	N	diferent and challenging	William Herzog has taken the parables of Jesus and has certainly put a different twist on them. As some other reviewers have noted, Jesus was put to death for what he SAID and did, so the stories he told must have been more then aphorisms. To reduce Jesus to a fire brand revolutionary is useless, though not as useless as making Him an american, and reading these parables as middle class people in the 21st century. They are certainly both timeless and of their time,and their time was in a far away backwater occupied by a viscious,brutal efficeint machine called Rome.I also, cannot agree on everything that professor Herzog puts forth. However, I know enough to realize that Jesus was more then aware of what was going on around Him,and that his stories would have great signifigance for the motley group that listened to Him.If not, then the parables are mere fables, Aesop for the age,with cute morals. I think that the message of Jesus is so challenging and difficult that we have added all the historical accretion we can find to soften its impact. I do not think, even remotely, that this is a defining portrait of Jesus,or even the only viable view of his parables. What I do think is that it is time to look, really look at the message of Jesus, not just outside of time, but in its time. And for that,for stimulating and causing me to re-think some of my tenents, I am grateful for this book.	2001-03-28
US	49789211	R1N12BSWFCANFA	0800627105	952070357	Jesus and Spiral of Violence (Facets)	Books	5	25	28	N	Y	Excellent,interesting  addition to the debate	Richard A. Horsley has added his voice to the question asked By Jesus{and thereafter history}:&quot;Who do you say that I am?&quot;He takes a slightly differt tack here,viewing Jesus in terms of the popular historical movements of his time,starting with the obvious fact of domination of a foriegn power,and the resulting lifestyles of an occupied people. After{quite interestingly}disecting the Romans and their slave perpetuated economy, he turns to Jewish non violent resistance, Messianic movements social community{including,a fascinating discussion on the half shekel temple tax},and eventually, a short concluding chapter on Jesus and Social revolution. This is a very well researched,well written study{though Im am not certain that all of the leaps are justified}Another inetesting book to the canon.As for the accusation that this is a Jesus for the secular left,I have found that whatever your political leanings are, one tends to attach them to Jesus. This ,though seems obvious to most, Jesus was poor, his friends and family were poor, most of his assocaites were poor,and almost everyone who initially heard His message were poor. That this sudy ,then would approach Jesus from the side of poor outcasts of that time living a under a brutal occupying force adminstered by viscious sycophants is not surprising.Not definitive, of course, simply another side to the story.	2001-03-28
US	49789211	R1B58PMKMNYT8B	0152938230	646521590	A Visit to William Blake's Inn: Poems for Innocent and Experienced Travelers	Books	5	19	21	N	N	one of my favorite books	A vsisit to William Blakes Inn is one of my favorite books ever. In a clever turn, nanct willard had turned the more famous characters from Blakes poetry into guest and attendents at his &quot;Inn&quot;&quot; Angels make the bed, Dragons bake the bread,Tiger,tiger loses its strength,all adorned with gorgeous illustartions from alic and martin provensen. In the brief introduction,Ms willard explains how she became attracted to william Blake,then what led her to this book. My children even at a very young age have love this book. It's poetic scheme is simple yet elegant, which makes it also fun for the adult reading and challenging enough for a early grade reader.A wonderful, funfilled chidrens classic.And, Ms Willard is correct:poetry IS the best medicine.	2001-03-27
US	49789211	R2LX5JB6NETQEA	0802838707	652603310	Creation out of Clay	Books	5	5	5	N	N	a beautiful book	Brother Thomas Bezanson ,originally from Nova Scotia, is one of the great potters working in cermaics today. His work is notable in its use of color, resembling texture and color used in both China and Japan. He works in porcelin,and now lives and works in Erie, Pa.,not a noted hotbed of the arts. He was formely assocaited with the celebrated Monks of Weston Priory in Vermont. His work is easily accesible, and is on display in the Boston museum,among other places. This book, with its luxurious photos show the depth of the color that Brother Thomas achieves,the deep blends that have become his signature .Tea bowls, plates,vases all are lovingly illustated in beautiful full 4 color photographs.In this volume,he shows his deep indebtedness to the japanese and chinese artist who have preceeded him.Also his story is told  along with his progress as an artist, and one can see, as a man. This is a beautiful book,lavishly illustarted which tells Br Thomas history along with the history of the pieces. Excellent, worth the cost and effort.	2001-03-22
US	49789211	R2I3QZLYIF74BI	8881183188	683976932	Michelangelo: The Pietàs - Photographs by Aurelio Amendola	Books	5	6	6	N	N	humbling,gorgeous book	Michelangelo's pietas are a monument, a testament in stone to the life and struggles of this strange tortured genius. The book is actually a bargain. The lavish,beautiful photographs show all 3 pietas in their entirety,not just the face{as a previous reviewer noted}. Since these works{especially the first} are not asaccesible {due to the unfortunate incident in the early 70's} we get a full view here of these works that explain the spiritual struggles of this giant.Each pieta is carefully,lovingly photgraphed form every angle. Curiosly, the second and third pietas are equally compelling,though it is the first with which most people{myself included} are most familiar. Save going over to each of the three cities in Italy where these pieces are,i cannot fathom a better book. I Think this is as compelling spiritual &quot;reading' as any ,and is almost overwhelming in its purity,its emotional beauty , and its sublime passion. This is one to pass on for generations.	2001-03-22
US	49789211	R1GN6GVEKZV7PU	8881184028	604522510	Henri Matisse: The Vence Chapel: The Archive of a Creation	Books	4	22	22	N	Y	Interesting,not a coffe table book	First, this is not a coffe table book. Though Illustarted, it is NOT a picture book.I mistakenly thought it so.The books dimensions are1.69 x 9.40 x 7.12 ,whic are that of a normal harcover book. That said, this is an interesting volume on the creation of the famous chapel at Vence. Matisse was ill, and a young nurse kept him company though the long bouts of insomnia accompanying his illness. Later, she joined the domincan sisters.Matisse felt a huge debt to this woman-later nun, and a serious of circumstances led to the creation of this magnificent chapel. There was a domincan friar,Fr. M.A Courtier,who after being stranded in the USA during WWII,set about bringing modern art together with the sacred.{he edited a journal called SACred art}. A young architect,Br. L.B. Rayssiguier, was designing a new chapel for the NUNS at Vence, and approached Matisse to ask his advice. The majority of this book is the correspondence between Matisse and Fr Courtier and Brother Rayssiguier. The photos show the chapel in many stages of development{though not nearly enough color photos of the remarkable stained glass windows, nor of the marvelous stations of the cross} Still, it was an interesting read,that 50 years ago, the giants of art were in competition to design great works of religious art,whatever their motives.Along with the Rothko chapel{a comparison drwan in the preface},this stands as a monument to a genius,and the letters bewteen Fr Coutrier and Matisse are filled with anecdotes and observations. The Menil Foundation has done an excellent job in the production of this volume.	2001-03-20
US	49789211	R3KEILK0VT1CV2	0679737626	710919189	A Flag for Sunrise	Books	5	28	32	N	N	Stone at his Philosphical,morally ambiguous best	Robet Stone has always been a novelst of PLACE. Whether in New Orleans,{HAll of Mirrors},Vietnam and the southwest{dog soldiers},or later Jerusalem{Damascus Gate},he inhabits these places as if he were a lifer. IN a FLAG FOR SUNRISE, his finest work to date, he inevnts a claustrophobic,insane CIA crazed counrty,TECAN.A Graham Greene novel written by a close to the edge survivor,this is a complex political religious thriller. There are some chilling moments early on, a whiskey priest{not a very rare breed, in fiction }a radical nun, a reptillian colonel,a cia agent, his latin american contact, a drug smuggler and his wife[bored, they do this for kicks] a psycopathic meth-amphetamine addict,all cross paths and slowly,slowly they come together. Stone along with Heinrich Boll inhabits the same area in fiction, at least for me: morally compromised people, thrown by situation,fate or grace into out of control situations.Also,like Boll, Stone doesnt like happy endings[knowing that there are few, at least now}. This book is a masterpiece of contemporary fiction,one of the better novels of the last 25 years. Stones best to date, a powerful novel filled with potent mix of religion,politics and philosophy.	2001-03-16
US	49789211	R1HEIA3AX5ELGP	0312131712	283370548	The Silent Angel: A Novel	Books	5	15	17	N	Y	Astonishing	Heinrich Boll occupies for me the same place Dostoyevski does for many people: a deeply,morally complex writer who tells stories of profound depth involving average people thrown into situations not of their making. In the SILENT ANGEL, Bolls first novel{suppressed in germany for over 40 years},he tells of the immediate aftermath of WWII{the war ends in the first few pages, to his disbelief} on average germans, including the main character, a soldier struggling with fear and hunger to stay alive. In one of the early scens, the protagonist finds a nun in a hospital making soup, who gives him a piece of bread. The ecstasy the bread gives him{also symbolic of Bolls then Catholcism} can only been written by someone who actually expierenced hunger{I think much of this is autobiographical} Later the main character rediscovers love,amidst the falling plaster,the cold the hunger. A kind priest gives him a bottle of wine,which leaves him stunned at first,thenhe brings back to share with his new life. The idea of love flowering among people in such straits is remarkable,as is the ability to make one empathise with average germans, not an easy task after the horror of WWII&gt; A Later scene with his new wife,where she describes a piece of pipe still standing after all the bombing{the unnamed city is Cologne}is marvelous, the touch of a master. That this is his first novel is almost astonishing,for it has true depth without much of the maudlin coming of age nonsense associated with first novels.If Heinrich Boll was not the most important novelist of the last 40 years, he was damn close. The opening act of a magnificent, important writer, thinker and moral witness.	2001-03-12
US	49789211	R35U7EGSTBK9OX	080211587X	527450866	Love Had a Compass: Journals and Poetry (Grove Press Poetry Series)	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Simply lovely	Robert Lax,who died late last year back in his &quot;home&quot; of Olean,N.Y.,was a writer of spare,minimalist poetry and prose.Lauded by his comtempories{writers as diverse as Levertov,Kerouac,Maxwell and Thomas Merton considered him an absolutelt essential poet}He writes about the Large{the title piece, a reworking of the intoduction to the Gospel of John} to colors. He work is so spare that it becomes meditative. In the early 1960's Lax moved to the island of Patmos,and began life as a hermit. His speech{and poerty }became even more lean,essentially stripping away whatever he viewed as accretion.One poem written like a cascading waterfall, simply spells out colors. His greatest work, the circus of the sun, is reprinted here in part. Lax travelled with a canadian circus for awhile, and viewed the circus,metaphorically, as life. This volume is rounded out with some dairies he keopt in the mid 60's on the Greek Islands. I believe that generations to come will view him as one of the great poets of the century.For that he certainly was. An essential volume!	2001-03-12
US	49789211	R12AJ3SHLC5SV6	0452278783	708637974	No Other Life (William Abrahams Book)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Again, superb Moore	No Other Life is a vieled portrait of Jean Betrand aristide,told of course in fictionalised form.Told through the eyes of his fellow priest and discoverer,if you will, it tells the story of an activist priest,watching his people become further and further oppressed,until he himself decides to enter politics.{this book was written in the period that aristide was in exile}The descriptions of island life are pure Moore,as is the age-old moral ambiguities,the question of faithvs.politics.{Moore claimed to be agnostic,which wouold fit this book quite well} The books title comes from the narrators own soul quest,and his affirmation thereof.The ending is open-ended,as the aristide character becomed messianic,which,along with powerful colusion of military,corporate and religious powers leads to his downfall.Another moral, challenging novel form the late Mr. Moore.Excellent!	2001-03-11
US	49789211	R33KAJGR8GNWVD	0452278651	223524794	Black Robe: A Novel	Books	5	12	13	N	N	An Historical novel of ideas	The late lamented Bian Moore often inhabited worlds where graham greene had become master{though Moore was not very far behind.} The world of moral ambiguities,the world that we live in. In Black Robe he takes this to another level, telling the tragic story of the Jesuit missions to Canada and the Huron. It tells the story of a zealous,pious younf Jesuit,his assistant, and the native people who help them. Loosely based on the life of Jean de Brebouf{who pened the famous Chrstmas carol,the huron carol and suffered an unbelievable,torturous death},young Fr.Laforgue,who is woefully prepared for this stumbles into one situation after another.His zeal,though, becomes tempered by compasion,and his character is not one dimensional.Eventuallly, he is abandoned and finds the huron mission he set out for, leaving the then village of quebec all those miles and deaths ago. the viloence is quite graphic[including the death of a child which stayed with me for some time}.the ending,where lafaogue finds the village sick with fever,agreeing to be baptized if the Blackrobes wil cure them.The ending is chilling and superb and all the more so since it actually happened.One of Moore's best,which says a great deal.	2001-03-11
US	49789211	R1IK42QE1YPUTM	030680963X	359648793	Don't Look Back : Satchel Paige in the Shadows of Baseball	Books	5	9	11	N	Y	Excellent bio,seperating myth from stereotype	Satchel Paige is an enigmatic figure in american histroy. Mention his name, people inevitably think of the negro leagues,or thta terrible bingo long movie.In fact, Paige was ,in many repects, the first modern ballplayer. He played for a percentage of the gate, would only pitch a couple of innings in these contests,had no compuction about jumping from team to team{or country to country}The minstel show,stephifetchit aura that he calculated with the all too eager white press was, of course, a huge ruse. He was a sometimes bitter man{quite understandably so}He knew, instinctively, that he was the best pitcher in the world{although,curiosly, his peers voted Smokey Joe williams better in a 1950 vote in the Pittsburgh Courrier} He despsed the Jim Crow laws, and what he had to do to get around them. HIs civil rights stands were taken in the 20's 30's and 40's, when such things often meant death. He pitched for what might have been the greatest team of all time{the Pittsburgh crawfords of the early 30's] Dimaggio called him ethe toughest pitcher he ever hit against.All of these nuggets are in this book. Mr. Ribowsky did a fine job here. Paige is a figure who should be celebrated for what he was:an american original,a species often sighted but rarely seen. A wonderful book!	2001-03-09
US	49789211	R2ETZDUBUXUYDW	0007105509	711035436	A Simple Path	Books	5	32	34	N	N	Simply beautiful	thorsons have done us a great service with the publication of this book. HH the dalai Lama gave a lecture on the 4 noble truths in england, and instead of merely publishing the text[good enough in and of itself},Thorsons has interspersed scores of color pictures of some of the finest photographs available,throughout the volume. Heavy bonded glossy photograhic paper is used,highlighting this amazing volume. The typeset is bold and clear,the pictures are breathtaking!Monasteries, monks praying, pilgrims outside the ptola palace,children playing...absolutely stunning photgraphs, perfectly compliment the text of His Holiness.And at this price?!?! What an exquisite book, and what a bargain. Absolutely magnificent! Highest recommendation.	2001-03-08
US	49789211	R2GFU7Q0685N3Y	1880684071	431181318	Cosmic Canticle	Books	3	7	11	N	N	A huge effort,about half on target	Ernesto Cardenal is a tough call. former miinster of culture in the sandinista government,one time Trappist novice,former pacifist who took to the hills to fight the somoza government, then returned in triumph. Infamous for the incident at the Managua airport where the pope was caught on worlwide television wagging his finger at him,as an embarassed cardenal tried to kiss his ring[not a real highlight for either man,methinks}Nicaragua's most famous living poet,this is a series of cantos[think of pound and Neruda}It starts with, appropriately,the Big bang and ends, aslo appropriately with Omega. In between he quotes the tao{in the beginning was the Tao...}, Telihard de Chardin,thomas merton, Jesus as a communist revolutionary, honors Che` Guevera,quantum physics,micro-biology,the church fathers,glorifies Mao, Fidel and ,most things&quot;left&quot;&gt; Some of this poetry is lyric, soaring, much of it pedantic,sounding like a tired old party hack. When he reaches for the cosmos,he fares so  much better&gt; Fr. cardenal has been savaged in print by mario Vargas LLosa,not for his poetry, but for his politics.Though it is impossible to seperate them, Fr. Cardenal comes off as quite sincere,and much of this shines through his poetry. An epochal effort,which though fallimng short{and its blindness to oppression by leftist goverments},this is a noble and quite good volume.	2001-03-08
US	49789211	RWH9TJLWYS1Q4	0929650360	871066977	Lent: Lent I & Lent II	Books	5	7	7	N	Y	Amazing compilation, profound depth	LENT SOURCEBOOK IS ACTUALLY 2 VOLUMES, PUT OUT BY A CHICAGO BASED  lITURGY tRAINING pUBLICATIONS. THEY HAVE BOOKS FOR ADVENT, tHE eASTER tRIDUUM,BAPTISM, MARRIAGE,EASTER AND MANY OTHER LITURGICAL EVENTS. THESE TWO VOLUMES DEAL WITH THE DAYS OF LENT, FROM ASH WEDNESDAT,UNTIL THE EASTER TRIDUUM[HOLY THURSDAY].EACH DAY IS ALLOTED 10 PAGES OF READINGS,PSALMS,HYMNS AND APPROPRIATE QUOTES.HERE IS AN EXAMPLE,FROM TUESDAY OF THE FIRST WEEK OF LENT;MATTHEW6;5-15,A QUOTE FROM CYPRIAN OF CARTHAGE, A QUOTE FROM FREDERICK FARBER,SIMONE WEIL,ABRAHAM JOSHUA HESCHEL,J.T. PETEE,ISIAH 55:10-11,LANCELOT ANDREWS,CEASARIUS OF ARLES,HENRI NOUWEN,1 THESSALONIANS5:16-18,ORIGEN,THE WAY OF THE PILGRIM,ARTIN BUBER,COLLOSIANS4:2,BALTHASAR FISCHER,PAUL F. BRADSHAW,ORIGEN,ALEXANDER SHCHMEMANN AND ROMANO GUARDINI. tHIS IS JUST FROM one DAY! sEAMLESSLY WOVEN TOGETHER, THIS IS THE DIFINITIVE LENTEN DEVOTION BOOK. THERE IS SOMETHING HERE FOR ALL TASTES,THOUGH ALL OF IT IS GOOD AND EVEN HOLY. A MARVELOUS JOB.THE PAPER ITSELF IS HEAVY BOND,CLEAN A LOVELY TO LOOK AT.10 STARS!!!!!!!!!	2001-03-06
US	49789211	R1B9EMHOUIALM0	0385494483	494859874	001: The Death of the Messiah: From Gethsemane to the Grave: Commentary on the Passion Narrative in the Four Gospels	Books	5	49	52	N	N	The SUMMA of Passion scholarship	The late Fr. Raymond Brown,S.S.,of blessed memory, was the greatest scripture scholar this country has produced. Eriudite,brilliant,evenhanded,he searched for the truth,not easy answers. His BIRTH OF THE MESSIAH{which I still have as a $5.95 trade paperback from 1978},set the tsandard of modern american scripture scholarship. In this, the first of 2 volumes{as part of the magnificent ANCHOR BIBLE LIBRARY},Fr. Brown begins his passions study from the moment the Last supper begins. He open each section with a literal translation of the 4 gospels, then gives his commentary. With the massive footnotes,{and Brown's footnotes are more interesting then most studies},literally hundreds of pages of Bibliography,Fr. Brown dissects line by line,the content of each passage. Some of his insights are casually stunning{in all the scriptures there is only one other suicide besides Juds mentioned, that in II Samuel},his belief in the HISTORICAL accuracy of John's gospel,his hundreds of casual asides{the difference in the conjugation of certain verbs,one leaving Jesus passive, the other suggesting a proactive Jesus] These are just minor nuggets. This study will take one a long time to read,to digest. It is NOT an easy read.It is INFINITELY REWARDING. Raymond Browns scholarship far exceeds my ability to praise.Taken together, these two volumes are a testament to the faith and scholarship and brilliance of this man. BRILLIANT!!!!!!!!!!	2001-03-06
US	49789211	R3VZDFQLD1SJV3	0970267207	624610489	Dylan & the Frucht : The Two Wits	Books	2	15	22	N	Y	Strange brew,doesn't mix	Bob Dylan seems to be one of those artists who are like a mirror. You see what reflection you wish to portray. Having read Jonathon Cotts Dylan,where Dylan is a great poet,Stephen Pickerings Dylan, where he is a wandering Hebrew prophet,I decided on this book. Well, the theology here is an odd mix of fundementalism and Hebrew-christian potpurri. Hey, you can take Dylan songs to justify union busting{union sundown],though I hardly think that is the intention. Ignoring the vast corpus of Dyans work to justify this is simply cheap.Dr. Fruchtenbaum may or may not be a good theologian. Howwever, this book is about HIM, not bob dylan. I was very,very disappointed at the questioanble theological viewpoint and the tedious pedantic postruing and lecturing. Thomas Merton near the end of his life was preparing a study of Bob Dylan. Now THAT would have been interesting and fruitful. This is not.	2001-02-24
US	49789211	R3KOH7JCQKGOWG	0805017305	820817223	Bury My Heart at Wounded Knee: An Indian History of the American West	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Magnificent,humbling	Bury my heart at wounded Knee is one of those books that literally can cahnge the way you look at the world. I first read this book as a high school freshman, then have read it a half dozen times since. It tells the sory,through the eyes of the Native peoples[or indians,or native americans].having been raised on a steady diet of gen. Custer and kit Carson{niether of whom fare very well here},I was shocked then appalled at what I read. From the forced march of the navajos,to the cheyenne trail of tears,to the magnificentCrazy Horse,to the sad,somewhat co-opted Red Cloud&quot;They made us many promises,more Then I can remember,but they only kept but one:they promised to take our land, and they took it.&quot;This was the first place I read of the remarkable chief Joseph of the Nez Perce,and his stunning travail. Or the magnificent apache's...The death of sitting bull is elagaic and very,very sad, as to survive, collaborators joined the occupying force{as is the case in any occupied country}Tragic,and ending horribly with the massacres at Sand Creek and Wounded Knee. The final image of the survivors of that massacre being brought into a chruch decorated for Christmas has satyed with me through the years. Searing, brilliant,essential.	2001-02-23
US	49789211	R1PHZZ66U8HZ5M	1570753059	129729826	The Bride: Images of the Church	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	Beautiful	Fr. Daniel Berrigan,poet, Jesuit priest,witness and confessor,has used his considerable poetic gifts in union with Fr. William Hart McNicholas,a renonwned iconagraper.There subjects are varied,to say the least:Padre Pio, Maura O'Halloran,{a Irish American Zen monk Saint},Adreine von speyer,a mystic {closely associated with the former jesuit and theologian du jour, Hans urs von Balthazar},a new Russian Martyr,St. Benedict Joseph Labre and others. What beautiful Icons!Lovely prose-poems accompany each icon,making it quite a useful meditative tool.	2001-02-14
US	49789211	R2RY5QJ3T9JD8G	0140195815	767088036	The Gift	Books	5	12	17	N	Y	A Book of LIGHT	Hafiz{Shams-ud-din Muhammed}lived in Persia in the 1300's. {Hafiz is an honorific given to one who memorized the Entire Qu`ran}That he is the greatest poet of Iran is unquestioned{many people there can recite great portions of his work from memory}That he is the greatest sufi poet of all is more of the question.In this volume, Danile Ladinsky's translations almost appear as collaborations.By rendering Hafiz into modern English, he has done us a great service. &quot;Why just show you God's menu?/Hell,we are all starving/Let's eat.&quot; and this gem&quot;I can see angels sitting on your ears/polishing trumpets,replacing lute stringsstretching new skins on the drums,and gathering wood for the evenings fire/they danced all night but you did not hear them/...&quot;His poetyr is light ethereal,one moment, then earthy almost bawdy the next. Deeply,profoundly spiritual&quot;Pray to be Humble,so that God does not have to appear to be so stingy/...&quot;  and this &quot; Fear is the cheapest room in the house/ I would like to see you living in better conditions/...&quot; Hafiz is to me unequalled.For lovers of poetry, seekers,lovers,friends,Hafiz is a wonderful guide and companion.There are those in touch with the Divine,whose works give forth  light,and touch all who come in contact. Hafiz is one such, and this collection is a lifelong companion.	2001-02-08
US	49789211	R13D3A7UWH9NBN	0861711386	225004940	The Good Heart: A Buddhist Perspective on the Teachings of Jesus	Books	5	12	19	N	Y	Interesting,insightful,though no longer unique	The christian-buddhist dialogue,which has been going on for quite awhile unnoticed in the west{see the writings of Hugo-Enimoya Lasalle, William Johnston and dom Bede Griffiths}until,it appears, Thomas Merton's epochal meeting with HH dalai Lama in 1968 in Dharmasala,bears fruition in this volume. HH dalai lama comments on various New Testamnet readings, with appropriate help form Laurence freeman. Since these comments are extemporaneous, they have a vitality that would be muted in a more scholarly setting.{these meditations were done in England under the auspices of the World community of Christian Meditation}Though listening to the dalia lama on the Sermon on the mount is quite intetesting, then relating it to personal expierence and buddhist scripture, I found nothing unique here. Perhaps this meeting was best expierenced LIVE,or at least on tape.{literal transcripts often are dry] Most of HH Dalai Lamas writings I have read have been ,LIGHTER then this,both in weight and luminosity. Still, having the Dalai Lama comment on christian scripture, and willing to do so without notes and much preparation,speaks volumes for the man. Few leaders,never mind acknowledged spiritual authorities would hazzard into this territory. What Humility. Of common interest is THE GETHSEMANI ENCOUNTER,{which HH Dalai Lama participated} held at Thomas Merton's abbey in Kentucky.	2001-02-08
US	49789211	R3TI3YHGTEVO0C	0826411657	36250683	Gethsemani Encounter: A Dialogue on the Spiritual Life by Buddhist and Christian Monastics	Books	5	24	24	N	Y	Truly different,humble and Divine	The Gethsemani Encounter was perhaps one of the great overlooked religious moments in the past decade. In the hills of Kentucky, in the oldest Trappist monastery in the United States,monastics from all over the world gathered to dialogue,to learn,to agree and disagree.The meeting place was suggested By The Dalai Lama,who in a moving afterword says&quot;And so for the rest of my life,the impact of meeting him will remain until my last breath.&quot;The him is Thomas Merton, who met with the Dalai Lama on his final journey through the east in 1968.The talks in this book are broken up into sections{Journey and Dialogue,Prayer and Medidtation,Method and Expierence, Growth and Development,etc.} with speakers from both Buddhist and Christian monastic tradition sharing their expierence and strength. Some of the participants are truly moving: Ven. Maha Ghosananda of Cambodia speaking briefly on THE HUMAN FAMILY,the dalia lama on THE BODHISATTVA AND SOCIETY,,PRAYER AS PATH by Pierre-francios de bethune`Mary Margaret Funk,OSB on Lectio DIVINA,and many more. An over used term, treasure trove is quite appropriate. This is a collection to return to, to glean ,to nurture the soul.TO Open This volume isto enter  a holy place . Truly magnificent.	2001-02-08
US	49789211	R3VWTEC58XXT2G	0822314754	494896062	Dispatches From the Front: Theological Engagements With the Secular	Books	5	13	15	N	Y	Excellent antidote to fundementalism	Stanley Hauerwas belongs to that minority,{along with Will D. Campbell, Clarence Jordan, Daniel Berrigan, S.J., William Stringfellow, and a few others} who shake the rafters of conventional christianity. The literal,fundementalist's who have dominated the media for the past 20 years would be sent into shivers by much of what Hauerwas writes. Essays such as Why Gays{as a group} are morally superior to Christians{as a group} are brilliant, though I'm certain would disturb many{which ,is one of the reasons Mr Hauerwas writes.} Mr. Hauerwas has been on a crusade about the mentally handicapped, and how we can LEARN FROM THEM,and how we can better serve them and become better ourselves{much of this has been covered by henri Nouwen and the living saint, J`ean vanier]Still, with essay's on Karl Barth and William Stringfellow, My Hauerwas once again  is challenging in his views of what it means to be a christian in America. Challenging, thought provoking. What better compliment to afford a theologian?	2001-02-07
US	49789211	R3KU490V2531JB	0823218228	935366899	And the Risen Bread: Selected and New Poems, 1957-1997	Books	5	7	7	N	N	The most overlooked poet of our time	Daniel berrigan, S.J.,poet,priest,confessor,witness has his second volume of collected poems.{the first,published by doubleday in the mid-1970's,is out of print.}It is curious that Berrigan is so overlooked{ignored]. His poetry is superb:supple,elegant,concise. Due to his political{religious}witness, he has been consigned to the fringes{where he is quite comfortable}Unfortunately, this has made his poetry less accessible,which is really too bad. For I believ him to be one of the great poets of our time. This collection begins with his Lamont award collection,TIME WITHOUT NUMBER,up and beyond HOMAGE TO GERARD MANLEY HOPKINS, and some uncollected work. From Vietnam to prison, to an elegy for some young children on block island, to an homage to his 10 year old namesake killed,these are vital poems, lush with language,deeply heartfelt,written about life as seen by one of its more ineresting participants . Beautiful,lyrical rich poerty, a feast for the mind and heart. Do yourself a service,read this book,savor these poems,for in many of them you enter a holy realm,a place of peace.	2001-02-07
US	49789211	RYUAT881I9RYN	0394538382	810416805	Chile: Death in the South	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Excellent,biting very well written	Chile, 1987. Gen . Augusto Pinochet is in charge, frmly these last 14 years. NO OPPOSITION is brooked, though, somehow some members of the  Roman Cathoilic diocese of Santiago, trudge onward,reaseraching,protesting standing up in a country ruled by Fear.The Left has been nuetered by the coup of 1973 and the continual kidnappings and tourtures,made to inspire and breed fear. Th USA,its puppet government firmly in place, acres not a whit for any human rights abuses,they are in the nebulous realm of &quot;fighting communism'. It is against this backdrop that Mr. Timerman,already taking on Argentina and Israel{and soon Cuba},arrives in chile.He repeatedly comments on the all pervasive fear.Pope John Paul II's visit to Chile is highlighted, and Timerman gives the pontiff high praises for his handling of Pinochet and the Military,his meetings with human rights workers,and ultimately,hi inability to actually change anything at that moment.Timerman leaves with the thoughts that soemhow Pinochets days are numbered{though it would be awhile for some form of normalcy to return to this country}Another in the Timerman canon, and well worth reading, espiecally now that Pinochet is to stand trial for some of his crimes.	2001-02-05
US	49789211	R1CI2EFXTO3YEZ	1570752044	839805066	Simone Weil (Modern Spiritual Masters Series): Selected Writings (Modern Spiritual Masters)	Books	5	40	46	N	Y	Excellent introduction	Simone Weil was, among other things,a mystic,philospher,worker,intellectual and, in an odd way, a martyr. Her philosophy is dense,often lending itself to repeated readings. Her concepts are difficult,though worthwhile to say the very least. Simone Weil writings in this volume,which are very well edited by Eric O. Springsted{the president of the simone weil society},are from the later period of her life. She lived only until her thirities, though, like most saints and genius&quot;,she left an inordinate amount for those of us to follow. He philospohy here dpeneds heavily on what she calls the necessary or necessity{sort of natural cause and effect,as it were} though then which is far from an uncaring God or watchmaker who began the universe then sits idly by. This is the core of her philosophy and is quite obtuse at times. The writings on the Need of suffering are illuminating,her statement on what a jst society should be is vital and fresh. Simone Weil understood that modern technology had rendered many poeples lifelong way of life obsolete, therefore denying them of not only a right livelihood, but also their spiritual well being. The well oiled mechanism that is [was] capitalism was at that momet[along with its equally vaccuous counterpart Marxism] laying waste to the soul of Europe{and by proxy, the West}. Weil offered suggestions,and possible solutions,by her life. She lived the life she worte about as well as she was able. A truly extraordinary human being,and one to whom I will always be in debt. This is a superb introduction to the life and work of the truly astonishing woman.	2001-02-05
US	49789211	R33N891RAVXOA8	0826412688	23741448	Brother to a Dragonfly: 25th Anniversary Edition	Books	5	29	29	N	Y	The finest coming of age story I have encountered	Brother to a dragonfly, Will D Campbell's brilliant,evocative, nostalgic luminous memoir teels the story of his family in the pre-tva rural south. Though much much more then a simple coming of age story,it is the story of 2 brothers,their lives amid the greatest change in this ountry since the civil war. Will D Campbell and his brother Joe stories are told so movingly,and with such deep power that ,by the end it will move you to tears. It is the sory of a man,family,RELIGION,the south,race,addiction,love and death. It will shatter any preconcieved notions  and stereotypes,for Will D Campell is a true iconoclast. I run out of superlatives to describe this book. Read it.	2001-02-04
US	49789211	R324UG1ZOLK7LZ	0374213437	756259370	More Stories from My Father's Court	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Short concise excellent Singer	These stories were originally published ,in serial form, in the Jewish daily Foward. They are short almost precise stories of IB singers youth in Warsaw and his Fathers &quot;court',the BETH DIN, a combination court,synagogue ,advice for the lovelorn, place of talmudic debate,etc. The stories,vignettes drawn from memory,tell these so well. None of these stories are in the collected stories,so it makes the purchase of these 2 volumes essential{the other is IN MY FATHERS COURT]. From Old widows wanting to remarry, to overly pious mates, to pseudo-intellectual rabbis trying to show off their'learning&quot;.,I.B. Singer has left us a record of a vanished civilization, in a place and time less then 70 years ago.Essential stories from the gratest short story writer of our time.	2001-02-02
US	49789211	R1NRV61S9YMHRP	0449911683	968250752	My Name Is Asher Lev	Books	5	4	8	N	N	wonderful,lyrical and sweet	Mr. name is asher lev tells the story of a young Chasidic Jew in Brooklyn who is beginning his lifelong oodyssey of artitic longing and adventure. His parents being good pious people are at times mystified and eventually mortified at the result of his art. Mr. Potok is perhaps my favorite novvelist because he writes ,so well, about things that matter:God,life, children and parents,art fun and love.In this book{which though it stands by itself, should be read with its sequal, THE GIFT OF ASHER LEV},Mr. Potok gets will ionto the creative mind. Asher Lev is faced with the torturous decision of art or conscience{well, family}. His decision and the conclusion remind one of Marc Chagalls white crucifixion. Superb writing,excellent story.	2001-02-02
US	49789211	R3CCVL86WQHOR	0679730672	912151089	Out of Place: A Memoir	Books	5	11	18	N	N	Painful, almost overwheming,magnificent	Edward. W. said is so many things, cultural crtic, spokesman and crtiic of Palestinian rule and rulers,anti war activist,celebrated friend of the left,professor and, above all a good man. The memoirs then, come as a bit of a shock. mr. said has always been displaced,always the third man in a two man act.Palestinan chrstian not moslem,scholar he has always been or felt different,left out. his parents though loving and attentive,come off as suffocating and,as a parent[and child] were painful  to read and identify with, interestingly , for me, then was the fact that the  mr saids memoirs could have been written by anyone,or at least the feelings and expierences are so universal,though few could write as well or affecting as mr said.Having read much of mr saids writings, i can say that this is an excellent addition to the canon,though certainly different then anything else.	2001-02-02
US	49789211	R634LTRO4Y0H5	044921978X	388376334	The Gift of Asher Lev	Books	5	16	17	N	N	Mature ,intelligent and still wonderful	Twenty years have passed for asher lev, last seen dispalying waht sounded like a version of Marc chagalls white crucifixion to a stunned and mortified family. He is, as this novel opens, a very successful artist living in France. When his beloved uncle dies, he ends his exile and returns to Brookly, to the chasidic community he thought h had left behind,to small storefront shuls and men in dark hats and coats,to that place deep inside himself which he could never leave. The travles from Willaimsburgh to Monticello, Ny{the catskills}, and the intorduction of Lev's young son are a lovely narrative touch. The Rebbe,based it would seem on the late Lubavitch rebbe of Blessed memory,is brilliantly,sympathetically drawn. he comes off as a holy,profound man of deep compassion and mystical understanding. Lev has grown, also, and the story of these tow, brilliant men is the key to the novel. A wonderful,beautifully plotted story of an amazing group of people.	2001-02-02
US	49789211	R2NSZOSW0L6QN9	0449245691	659224435	The Book of Lights	Books	5	28	30	N	N	Potok's brilliant evocation of darkness and light	Chaim Potok is one terrific storyteller. He tells big stories,of peoples,microcosemed in the stories of familes,mostly boys and men{though in Davita's harp, he steps outside,with interesting results}Th Book of lights is essentially the story of two friends, Gershon and Arthur.Gershon,alone attempts to understand the darkness swallowing the earth by studying kabbalah, the book of Jewish Mysticism. His friend is haunted by dreams of light, the brightest light men have yet discovered. Gershon becomes a chaplain in Korea,and contineus his journey. Arthur is haunted by the atomic bombs dropped on Hiroshima and especially Nagasaki.The title of the book is of course bouble edged, the book of lights and the balst of atomic weapons. There is little sermonising here. mr. Potok, as aleways, has kept to his storytelling genius. The debates among the rabbis at the Jewish Theological Seminary about the role of Kabbalh are very inereesting, and Loran's mystical encounter on a Brooklyn rooftop are moments of sheer poetry. This is a big book, rich, filled with ideas. In many ways, it is Mr Potoks most ambitious work of fiction. And very, very rewarding.	2001-02-02
US	49789211	R21NQFISNS8KPR	0679760849	179801447	The Crossing (The Border Trilogy, Book 2)	Books	5	1	2	N	Y	LYRICAL,POetic, beautiful	C0rmac Mccarthy has stuck to himself in his writings. he has avoided the common tendency to wite the same novel again and again, and to write happy endings. Life inevitably may end up happy, though for most folks, not here, at least. Mccarthy knows this ,and writes it on a visceral level. The Crossing is revisiting familiar territory , the desert landscape of the southwest.A wolf is killing the family livestock, and is caught . The conventions end here. At times extremely allergorical,McCarthy wites  such lush poetry&quot;..out here God doesnt whisper, He shouts...&quot; A story of longing, grwoing up, sons and Fatherts, dreams and finding yourself, wrapped up in pure,lean prose. If Cormac McCarthy is not our greatest prose stylist, he is damn close.	2001-01-26
US	49789211	R24ASWBZWC6EZX	087793598X	942310448	The Springs of Contemplation: A Retreat at the Abbey of Gethsemani	Books	3	8	13	N	N	Not top flight Merton	Its odd, how things work out. In his Journals, Merton was ENTHRALLED by this reterat. He spoke in glowing terms of the participants,and praised the intamcy achieved. He states, flatly&quot;this is the best reterat of my life.&quot; Yet none of that comes forth in this collection, which is more the pity. Of course, some of this is indeed dated[the world is radically changed in 33+ years]and perhaps, as it seems Fr. Merton was wont to do, he gets overly enthusiastic about something before he has completely immersed himself.Still, second level Merton is better then just about top shelf from anyone else.Some nuggets on prayer left me thinking that perhaps the great moments of this retreat were the celebration of the Mass that were held each day. In that silence was perhaps that ineffable moment that cannot be heard nor touched that Merton groped for so in his life and writings. So, in all not great Thomas Merton, thjough still necessary to see the entire picture of this good great man.	2001-01-25
US	49789211	RQ4C9UTWPDXH0	0964280213	307696910	The Abbey of Gethsemani: Place of Peace and Paradox (150 Years in the Life of America's Oldest Trappist Monastery)	Books	5	16	17	N	N	Majestic,peaceful and holy	The Abbey of Gethsamani was the first Trappist monastery in the USA,brought over by French monks in the mid 1800's. It was, of course most famous as the home of the late thomas merton[fr. Louis, o.c.s.o},author of the 7 storey Mountain and over 70 other books, diaries etc. it is through Merton that most of us heard first of this place located in the hills of Kentucky.Ms. Aprile has, along with the abbey's collection of photographs and articles, put together a simply beautiful book. there is so much more here tehn the late great Fr. Merton. The periods are divided into the various abbots tenures,leading up to the near present and Abbot Timothy Kelly{who resinged as abbot last winter} The history of not only the monastery and its environs is told, but more, the history of American Catholicism is here. Every major catholic figure,ecclisiastic or secular made their way through Gethsemaniat one point,and much of it is chronicled here. the photos are wonderful and evocative, the care taken with this book is evident throughout.the book itself is handsome to hold, the pages of fine quality,heavy bonded paper,the photos crisp and clear. A very well done book, highest quality highly, hugely recommended.	2001-01-25
US	49789211	R18HQ5OEUIS4PV	1567510930	708943845	Class Warfare: Interviews with David Barsamian	Books	4	6	13	N	N	Not a bad place to start with chomsky	This is a series of interviews gien on alternative radio stations in the mid-90's. The subjects are common ones with Chomsky:power and its mis-uses. From the bungled CIA support in Afganistan,to deficit spending, a correct Reading of Adam smith, the family values tour and Newt Gingrich, Chomsky makes his point.I prefer his interviews because, frankly , I do not think he is  a great writer. having read him while studying early childhood,this suprises me{he writes better scientificaly then politically}That being said, he remains the most vital ,important ,brilliant intellectual on our very thin landscape,and these interview are an excellent easy way to begin an introduction to the writings of Noam Chomsky.	2001-01-24
US	49789211	R27U4EYKW20ABP	156584520X	862365331	Hidden Agendas	Books	5	13	14	N	Y	Biting, scathing and ultimately brilliant	John Pilger, the Australian documentarian and journalist has collected some of most scathing recent pieces in this book. Like his kindred spirit Noam Chomsky, Pilger doggedly pursues the Truth as he sees it or finds it, as disturbing as it is,. Here, he seizes uopn the indifference on east Timor, Cambodia and the senseless.obscene embargo on Iraq.{the current president during the last campaign was asked about the situation in east Timor. Hiis response:&quot;if the people of east timor rise up in revolt, I'll have a comment then.&quot; When informed that they had, in fact a YEAR BEFORE, he smiled and shrugged}Pilger and Chomsky and Ed Said and others are consigned to the &quot;far left&quot; part of the spectrum, only because in this country the enitre pictur is controlled by huge corporations, thereby far right wingers. This is so sad in that it leads to no debate,and no action. No wonder the political lanscape is so sterile,and that Pilgers words ring so true.The hypocricy on Cambodia and Iraq at high levels is repugnant. this book helps bring some of that darkness into light.	2001-01-24
US	49789211	R3HGLDXW2P9VOF	0809103168	615557460	The Abbey Psalter: The Book of Psalms Used by the Trappist Monks of Genesee Abbey	Books	5	58	58	N	N	A Beautiful  Psalter	I first heard of this book in the late 70's,when another surger in the late Thomas Mertons books was underway. This Psalter is a copy of the one used by the trappists of Our Lady of the Genesee in Piffard, N.Y... I t is a BEAUTIFUL,lovely to look at and hold copy of each of the 150 psalms, lovingly written in large,clean calligraphy.The book itself is big,and meant to be read from a short distance[as the monks do in choir]. a wonderful gift for anyone who loves the psalms, or liturgical prayer. Very ,very well put together.The short,concise intorduction done by Abbot John Eudes Bamberger is superb.{Of related interest is THE GENESEE DIARY by Henri Nouwen, available at Amazon,in which he describes 8 months spent at the Abbey of Genesee}	2001-01-24
US	49789211	R1SR3192NU5EZW	0060973722	801195378	Men at Work	Books	2	13	28	N	N	Verbose,overrated	there is a tendencey among well educated baseball fans to make this great game out to be more then it is. George Will is an extreme example of this. Much of this is overwritten,and overblown which is too bad, beacause the subjects written about{cal Ripken, Tony Gwynn and the overrated-underrated Tony La Russa}are quite interesting,though Mr Will turns this book, somehow into a polemic on American values,thereby losing any credibility. Strange. A far,far better example of baseball wriitng exists in Thomas Boswells collections or anything by Roger Angel. This is the equivalent of a $2,000,000 a year utility infielder:overpaid and not worth the money.	2001-01-20
US	49789211	R3KY9DJJU26KYN	0393309762	807104375	Against Forgetting: Twentieth-Century Poetry of Witness	Books	5	9	11	N	N	as many stars as are in the sky...	Carolyn Forche has edited and collected one of the very,very few books that I would not want to be without.the poetry here starts with the Armenian genocide and works up until the Democracy movement in China in the early 90's. From the Shoah to the Russian winter,from the Middle east to the Spanish Civil War Ms. Forche` puts together the famous{Auden, Cummings,Pasternak, Garcia Lorca] to the little known at least here {Natayla Gorbenevskya, Nazim Hikmet...} I believe this to be a book necessary to understand the 20th century, surely the century of dictators and genocide,and also the century of hope and progress for so many...Ms. Forche is to be saluted,and thanked for this staggering,epochal effort.	2001-01-19
US	49789211	R31DG821R4G111	0380730235	182039274	Seasons in Hell	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Baseball and Gonzo meet	Seasons in hell is ,by far the most entertaining and funny sports book I have evr read. Hey, its one of the funniest books I have ever read,period. It chronicles the first 2 seasons of the Texas Rangers[before they were owned by the current president]in hilarious,psychotic scattershot prose and anecdotes. From whitey herzogs opening assessment of his Team&quot;we are 2 players short from contending...Babe Ruth and Sandy Koufax&quot;,to Willie Davis' brief hilarious exit,form the all night parties to Bob Shorts attempts to draw fans,this is one funny funny book.It is the beginning of an era,free agency is just around the corner,the money is not yet obscene. The ballplayers still have not lost touch with reality,and that makes this so much more enjoyable. Seriously,search for this book. It is well worth it.Raucous,howlingly funny.	2001-01-19
US	49789211	R1YRVX4DIKH2L7	0814625738	434972347	Divine Favor: The Art of Joseph O'Connell (Introducing Minnesota Religion)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Lovely pictures,beautiful words...	The late Joseph O'connell was a master sculptor,craftsman andartist,whose main work, it appears was liturgical.thereby consigning him to a lesser place among artists in this era. Too bad,for his work leaps off the page,full of life and mirth,celebration and deep pathos. He seemed to understand suffering in a way that was not self-indulgent,and portrayed it in stone,magnificently.He did hands very well, touching, probing holding caressing, and for me they seem to hold the key to some of his works. My only complaint is that this book is quite expensive,though handsomely done.Funny when reading this I felt more comfortable listening to Count Basie and Louis Armstrong then Ambrosian chant or William Byrd. Perhaps that too, is a tribute to this fine, wonderful artist.	2001-01-18
US	49789211	R38N4U5QG4JX9H	1570751943	208746477	Dietrich Bonhoeffer: Writings (Modern Spiritual Masters Series)	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Brilliant thoughts from a witness who stood up	Dietrich Bonhoeffer was a martyr,saint theologian, writer and witness. His writings, from which these exerpts have been gleaned, can be dense filled with obtuse terminology,and somewaht dry. These exerpts are clear, straightfoward, and life affirmimng[as all good theology should be]Bonhoeffer has become celebrated for his concept,developing during his final days, of a churchless Christianity. That controversy is not going to bed quite yet, though I think it ignores the basic fact that He was a practising churchman, very involved in the scarements and in developing future pastors at Finkenwalde...Either way, this is an excellent introduction to Bonhoeffer, from Coles introduction to the exerpts of all his major works{Life together,Ethics, Christ the Center, The Cost of Discipleship and Letters and papers from prison} this is the best introduction to the seminal churman of his time, and one of the greatest men of the past century.	2001-01-18
US	49789211	RUDHSFF8IRYJ3	0896086151	84458115	Eqbal Ahmad: Confronting Empire	Books	5	18	20	N	Y	Musings of a good, great man	The late,lamented Eqbal Ahmad was one of the more original thinkres of our time. Friend of the oppressed,opponent of oppresors anywhere left or right, Mr. Ahmad was a clear voice of conscious and sanity in an ever increasingly insane time. The writings,taken from radio interviews on aletrnative radio,are wide ranging{from the Indian subcontinent, to Vietnam, Israel, Bin Ladin, the Cia, Gandhi, sufism.poetry,terrorism,nuclear testing etc.} Mr. Ahmad is so eriudite,so clear in his perceptions devoid of rantings of right or left, that he is, was a cool stream in this desert of factionalism. His perceptions on Jinnah are very interesting, and on Gandhi,well, you have to read them. Or better yet,these tapes are available,and then you get to hear the man speak in his beautiful,lyrical voice. A nice tribute to a seminal thinker of our age.	2001-01-18
US	49789211	R17WOE4ZS4OFKD	1888363681	830851840	Dark Alliance: The CIA, the Contras, and the Crack Cocaine Explosion	Books	5	103	109	N	Y	Terrifying	How did this happen to Gary webb? A prize winning reporter,a middle of the road news reporter from a conservative stable backround suddenly becomes the pariah of the press? I read this book with great trepidition,seeing the JFK conspiracy folks running around ...well, i was surprised, shocked,horrified.Perhaps i shouldnt have been...Mr Webb ahs laid out, simply, forcibly a case so damning that most simply wont look.The case he sets forth is so damning infact, that if true, and I think it is, then we need to overhaul our entire system. The absurd &quot;war on drugs'[which doesnt really exist,except in political newspeak]is shattered by Mr Webb in the first 100 pages. 3 administrations,and countless pols either ignored or knew what was happening. Oliver North comes off none too well, though he is an easy target, and not even close to one of the important folks here. This is a searing piece of journalism,and one wonders why My Webb has been consigned to the far left by the celebrated organs of media, THe NY TIMES, THE WASHINGTO POST and The LA TIMES?. When these 3 folks stand up to criticise at once, well, i smell soemthing...where is the uproar from the 'mainstream press' ?After all, I thought the war on drugs was a family values issue. One of the most disturbing books I have ever read.	2001-01-18
US	49789211	RJ1MK9ZONUA8I	0385174462	997675835	The Genesee Diary: Report from a Trappist Monastery	Books	5	31	33	N	N	Nouwen at his best...	The Late Henri Nouwen ,of blessed memory, was a Dutch Catholic priest who was able to put his spiritual longings[and lackings] into print and a level that I do not think has been matched in the past century.Certainly, Thomas Merton was a better writer and more influential, though Nouwen gave us his doubt at an unprecendented depth. In this duiary, first published in the mid-70's , he went to Piffard , NY to live with the Trappists of the Genesse for 8 months[he later went back, and produced another book of meditations]It was fortuitous that he met the abbot, Fr John Eudes Bamberger, and found a man to whom he could pour himself out. The abbot [he is still abbot,by the way,and has his own website}is an MD, psychaitrist and a man of deep prayer. Much of the book is the the conferences of Nouwen and the Abbot, though a greter portion is Nouwens musings on life, his frustrations, his enthusiamims[wich were many and childlike in thier intensity] and his prayer.His descriptions of back breaking manuel labor,of sorting raisins{the monks produce a regionally famous bread, called,of course, monks bread]and of normal, everyday fears and phobias are wonderful, insightful and inspiring. The Late Fr. Nouwen wrote scores of books, though thisis in my estimation his finest.	2001-01-18
US	49789211	R1027GOSIDMNEB	1855383136	8395253	The Practice of Zen Meditation	Books	4	12	13	N	N	For westerners,a wonderful introduction	The late Fr. enomiya-lasalle, german jesuit and along with Frs.Henri la saux,Bede Griffiths, William Johnstin and Thomas Merton,are the great bridges from west to east. Fr Lasalle was a survivor of one of the Atomic blasts{a tv movie made about Hiroshima cast max von syndow as a composite],and an accepted Zen master while retaining his standing{as it was] as a catholic priest. the fact that he served in Japan with  dom pedro arrupe, later to be general of the jesuits was certainly advantageous.<br />This book, then is a compostite of fr enomiya -lasalle,a week long retreat ,as it were,a 7 day zen reatreat. The writing is non esoteric[somehow, zen can appear like quantum mechanics], clear and clean,like calligraphy. A wonderful intro, for people like me without the backround,though most definitely NOT A NEW AGE FUZZY WARM BOOK. There is effort[or better NON_EFFORT] involved here. Well, done, very well presented ....	2000-12-08
US	49789211	RKGB7P1I48N78	039914563X	225323965	The Bear and the Dragon	Books	2	4	9	N	N	Crypto fascist fantasy	The Hunt for Red October, for all of its dark political undercurrents{the naval institute press issuing this book when its sub funding was being put under the scope,its author a fantasy war monger who couldnt find it in his heart to seve in Vietnam]was a great ride. tautly written, far fetched in some of its plot but close enough to reality that its credibility was never too stretched, it introduced J ack Reilly to America,the anglophile with the Irish name{Clancy,well, you get it...].Since then, Mr Clancy has been getting further from reality,where all of the good guys are military republican types[well, this is a fantasy beacuse this guy  NEVER served under these dunderheads]and the bad guys are swarthy arabs[sigh] or drug smugglers[also swarthy types[heavy sigh]or worst of all Intellectual liberals{shock&gt;Horror of Horrors.Oh the humanity...]In this vapid tome, Mr reilly is now president{dont ask how,star trek is more believeable...]and doing battle with,well...over the top assinine violence from soemone who had not seen it{no one who witneses this type of carnage glorifies it,or dishonors the memories of those who perished. This guy has no problem,of course},the plot tiwsts make Clear and present danger seem tolstoyan.The attempt a few books ago to give mr Reilly a drininkig problem were another silly device, because people would never stand for a preseident with a drinking problem who did not get help for it{oops.maybe this is not so far...]Absurd,and silly too bad becuase Mr Clancy tells stories well, though not here and not this time	2000-12-06
US	49789211	ROMR7LFOEYEFR	0553103466	619601880	Circling the Sacred Mountain : A Spiritual Adventure Through the Himalayas	Books	2	22	31	N	Y	Boring,lightened  only by Wises' gentle humanity	When I purchased this book, i was trepiditious about Mr wises particpation. After all.Mr thurman is an acknowledged authority on tibetan buddhism,a friend of hh dalai lama,and wise is a alcoholic,trying to come to grips with his life. well, thank God for mr wises input in this Book1 It made it readable, and somewaht enjoyable.Mr Thurman comes off as a bullying professor,another self important gasbag who has spent too much time in academia.I have no doubt that he is a sincere buddhist,though what comes off here is a longwinded,pedantic bore.The cloak and dagger bit is a little much,though I am sure his fans will eat it up[will the chinese catch me at the border,etc.]The chinese come off rather brutally ,especially in regard to the compassion esposed throughout this book. For the truest of true believers,though Mr wises is entertaining, engaging and I'd travel with him anytime. Just leave Mr thurman home with a mirror and tape recorder.please.	2000-11-29
US	49789211	RIT7OGOJQW3UF	0300072570	372529038	Barry Goldwater	Books	4	7	10	N	N	The most balanced political biography I have read	Barry Goldwater,as someone once pointed out, last name speaks of the 2 most important things in the American west. this biography,meticulous in its balance,shows Goldwater from his lonely days as a western conservative ina republican party dominated with eastern power and money{how wird does that sound now?],to his latter days a conscience of the conservaties,who found little to cheer about from the new right who claimed its parnetage to him.From his biting prescience on LBJ and Vietnam, to his condemnation of modern politcs,Goldwater was an original.truly .Would his vision and sheer balls be available on this convuluted and viscious landscape of politics today.Very,very well written,balanced,nuanced biography of a seminal figure of modern america.	2000-11-22
US	49789211	RMNTFYEGM07VE	1892866161	30641552	All Century Team	Books	3	1	3	N	N	Nice presentation...	Of course there would be controversies.Starting with a premise to namethe 100 greatest ball players would be difficult.Theseselections,though border on the absurd.Nolan Ryan{?]ROGERCLEMENS{?!}Ken Griffey,Jr. Mark Mcgwire??????Wher are the graet negroleague players?Cal Ripken Jr. Who voted on this?These selections arelaughable....Hank Greenburg, Buck Leonard,Joh Henry LLoyd[Babe Ruthsaid he was the greatest player he ever saw}Tom Seaver,JuanMarichal.Sigh.Home Runs and strikeouts rule.This is a list forchildren.Simply terible.That said, the publishers have done a fine jobwith the presentation. The pictures are fine,of excellent quality, thebook, a coffee table tome,actually, is nice to hold and look at,thewriting is fair,not great,simply adequete.With what they had to workwith,they could have done much much more.	2000-11-13
US	49789211	R23NPCNTCPTBGI	0898706262	86464155	Bishop Fabian Bruskewitz: A Shepherd Speaks	Books	2	13	59	N	N	Anyone who can slog through this deserves a medal.	Thw author is the bishop of Lincoln ,nebraska,and has become famous[infamous] for his actions against&quot;liberals&quot;.Supposedly a brilliant theologian{his humility must cause him to hide it VERY well],his writing is pedantic,heavy handed and simply boring.He comes off as a silly outtake from a failed saturday night live episode.A hero to catholic flat-earthers,he is a parody of an ignorant cleric.Unfortunately, he seems to have no sense of humor.	2000-11-13
US	49789211	R32URYCJG3MO3A	0964643987	974321724	Father Fred and the Twelve Steps: A Primer for Recovery	Books	5	27	28	N	N	EXCELLENT, CONCISE,ELEGANT Personal witness on the 12 steps	According to the publisher Fr. Fred is 50 years a jesiut priest,an a member of alcoholics anonymous for almost 40 years. This very well written{especially when you consider they are simply transcriptes of talks],clear rendering of the 12 steps. A great deal of the literature on the 12 steps takes a teacher-student dialogue approach,whereas fr. fred seems to be far more humble,and so much more effective.He breaks down each step chapter by chapetr[his 3rd step,6th and 7th are worth thr price of the book alone].His language is VERY SIMPLE AND CLEAR.I have avidly read almost everything that i can get on the 12 steps, and i agree with the previous reviewer,this is essentila,and BY FAR AND AWAY THE BEST BOOK ON THE 12 STEPs i have read.No preaching, no religion,no oldtimer nostagia[which,unfortunately clutters up some other books.}10 stars,20 stars. This is life affirming stuff.	2000-11-07
US	49789211	R3KZYUTL12GE2W	0684853914	247231538	Joe DiMaggio: The Hero's Life	Books	4	12	16	N	N	well written story of a sad and lonely man	This book should come as no surprise to anyone who read DavidHalberstam's sumer of 49{or listened to Halberstam on Di Maggio],orthe insightful HBo Sports Documentary on Dimaggio.Still, the feelingyou get is a deep sadness. What a price Dimaggio paid to erect andkeep that persona which he so treasured{and we all clamored for]!Theauthor is no mere iconoclast,smashing idols for the sake ofdestruction. he carefully weaves in the era, the life and TIMES of JoeDimaggio, which, of course were so very intertwined. The parts onMonroe were actually sweet{she seemed to be, outside of money andfame,appropriately, the only thing Dimaggio ever loved.ho'ws that forirony.}The famous abound, and are dimissed quickly byDimaggio{surprsingly, at least to me, was his bile to Frank Sinatra.Itbares out.]How cheap and petty he was ,well, I dont think I reallyneeded to know.Diamggio was a product of his era, one of the halfdozen or so great ballplayers of the century. He escaped themicroscpoe of our modern times by playing in a time when ballplayerswere allowed to have private lives. Gay Talese's famous piece onDimaggio could be read as an introduction for what follows. Meticulouswith its research,this is a full bodied portrait of a an accidentalhero,who wanted the fame and fortune without the price.Sad,uncomforable,prescient. Well done.	2000-11-02
US	49789211	R1EROJRG565IQH	0898700744	638901586	Prayer	Books	5	54	64	N	N	a masterpiece.	The late h.u. von balthazar, the theologian du juer of the vatican was a brilliant,cultured theological giant,and also a man of deep and profound prayer.{do not let the fact that von balthazar has been co-opted by reactionaries daunt you. he is infinitely rewarding.}This book, divided into 3 sections;the act of contemplation;the object of contemplation andthe tensions of contemplation.though von balthazar can be dense and at times obtuse,this book is rich, the prose clear and at times,poetic,befitting its subject.This book is qiute literally a lifetime companion, for i believe it contains all of von Balthazar's wisdom, eriudition, and holiness[which is ,of course, a subjective thing.]Well, well worth the effort.As an aside, the publishers have done a commendable job with the presentation of this book. The binding is excellent, the pages themselves of fine qulaity. well done all around	2000-10-30
US	49789211	R9OE3K20U3VQ2	0938077635	431262387	Love in Action: Writings on Nonviolent Social Change	Books	5	19	20	N	Y	a living saint	Ven. Thich Nhat Hanh is one of the planets greatest resources.He has given his life to teaching and the eradication of suffering[or perhaps the transformation of suffering]. I first encounterd Nhat hanh in a jewel of a book, THE RAFT IS NOT THE SHORE,a dialogue with Daniel Berrigan,S.J.[soon to be reprinted]Sine then, i have read as much of Thich hat hanh as I can.This book is a group of essays and statements to the press covering a period form early in the vietnam war{Nhat Hanh has been in exile since the mid 1960's]up to the gulf war. The opening is a play {a short one] that takes place in vietnam. The other essays[very well written] cover like minded subjects: Buddhism in Vietnam, on simplicity,refugees{boat people,specifically] and the title piece.Along with Maha Ghosananda,{called the Gandhi of cambodia, the patriarch of Cambodian buddhism] nhat hanh is a boddhitsatva,a living saint. we are graced by his presence,and his writings.	2000-10-27
US	49789211	R37DOWVN8Y2HEQ	1570753091	509086185	Oscar Romero: Reflections on His Life and Writings (Modern Spiritual Masters Series)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Oscar Romero,Friend of the oppressed,martyr, Saint,hero	Obviously, i have a great affection for the martyred archbishop of san salvador.Reading and re-reading theses essays,one can only marvel at the man.For anyone who does not know his story, the bare bones are like this; A studious,fastidious young cleric slowly moves his way up the ladder,never negelecting the poor and outcasts, though never being thier champion. At the age of 60, when all of our mindsets are firmly entrenched, he becomes archbishop of san salvador{1977].After a close friend{and Jesuit priest] and two companions are brutally executed, he undergoes a transformation ,a dark night of the soul if you will,and emerges chnged ,transformed,the only true and popular hero El Salvador has known.Champion of the poor, the dissappeared, he begins to read the names of the dead each sunday from the pulpit of the cathedral. The 8 families[a collective name for the oligarchic powers that rule El Salvador]would have none of this. as atrociites piled up from left and right, Romero went along,going from shanty town to village, baptising, comforting listening praying exhortingin his harsher and harsher ministry. he wrote letters to President carter begging him to stop the military aid that was killing so many of his people.{interesting in regards to the former presidents  championing of human rights] abandoned by the bishops conference{save for Rivera y damas,his immediate successor] ostracised by the vatican {Pope John Paul had decided to replace him with a more pliable soul], Romero trudged on, towards his obvious martyrdom[which he dreaded]. Finally, In march 1980, two days after his final homily from the catherdral when he demanded, pleaded ORDERED the repression to stop, he was shot through the heart while saying Mass in a chapel for cance patients. The Civil war which he worked so hard to dispel was to go on with over 80000 deaths,countless wounded,and the ultimate indifference of the Us afetr the immediate threat of communist takeover diminished. These wirings about not by Romero, tell the story well,and movingly. I once saw a quote bu m.k. gandhi&quot;my life is my message'tHE WORDS COULD BE THOSE OF oSCAR aRNULFO ROMERO.	2000-10-20
US	49789211	R2WZJUK2O24LOJ	1582610398	322570001	Amazin' Mets: Miracle of 69 (Daily News Legends Series)	Books	2	8	9	N	Y	Overpriced,poorly done. A shame,really	The New York Mets of 1969 are forever etched into images of sun dappled youth. I cam to baseball through the mets, and 1969 was just that special year, like falling in love the first time. So for mets fans[who have had far more to moan than cheer] this team is emblamtic of all that was, and was good. this book,which I frevently wished  was good, is not. The sports writing form that era in the NY daily news{from whose morgue these writings and mostly photos are culled]was not bad,though not nearly enough is presented. No Boxscores, very little on what was going on around the city[which,after all, was one of things that made the mets so much fun]and alot of skimming. For $30, the publishers could have done much,much more. The portraits of some mets done by Bruce Stark,and the wonderful Bill Gallo cartoons almost make up for the disappoinment.I left wanting more,much more.	2000-10-20
US	49789211	R2ZT8PH7TOL3ND	0060654821	678970051	Dancing in the Water of Life : Seeking Peace in the Hermitage	Books	5	21	23	N	N	Brilliant Merton. Again.	Thomas Merton has become, since his absurd death,many thingsto many people. Only  with Pope John Paul II, in my estimation, has such a varried and vocal sparring been going on for legacies and interpertations{I actually do not know who will have the more influential leagcy. My guess is merton.}In this, the 5th volume of these magnificent diaries, Merton has begun the transition to hermit,such as it was.Much of the published writings from this period have the smooth polish of an editors hand. Not so with these  entries. Merton still writes,to borrow a phrase from Ross Mcdonald, like a slumming angel,and his nuggets of insight into his own foibles, that of his brethren{his abbot, of course, comes off no better here than the previois volumes}comes through almost painfully at times.. His reading list is so varied and prodigiois, that coupled with his correspondence, I cannot fathom how he found time to write,never mind pray,and meditate . Herein I think is the true genius,a word that has become so commonplace that it has lost its power.Mertons powers of concentration must have been extraordinary,his ability to focus on the thing at hand, without losing interest in momentary gifts{the fire-light reflecting through a glass jar of honey, the sound of deer scurrying about in new fallen snow.]The Thomas Merton I encountered here is an adult,believer,long discarding the triumphialism of the newly converted,grwing more at peace. Of course, we know how this part of the journey ends,so reading this again with that in mind makes it all the more pointed,and still retaining its power. HAving read all 7 volumes, I look foward to re-reading them for I believe them to be that good, and certainly worth the time, effort and cost.	2000-10-18
US	49789211	R15S2QESS0PNWT	0938077430	243541737	Step by Step	Books	5	14	14	N	Y	5 Stars for His Life,also	Ven Maha Ghosananda,supreme patriach of Cambodian buddhism,4 time Nobel Peace Prize nominee,living boddhisattva,has penned a book of short meditations.Taken with the introductions, the book runs less then 100 pages . The meditations themselves are simple, unadorned filled with wisdom and compassion{Maha Ghosananda says that both are needed for healthy living}prayers, pleas for tolerance and forgiveness,and most of all hope.Maha Ghosananda has lived through a hell that is quite literally unimaginable,yet maintains his compassion, love and hope.It is not a book of advice,nor offering easy snap answers to impossible questions. Maha Ghosananda seems to put one foot in front of the other, and go on with the work in front of him. Perhaps that, in and of itself, is the true miracle.	2000-10-15
US	49789211	R34Q6E20NUIFKH	0671517414	855907642	Heaven's Prisoners	Books	5	17	20	N	N	Terrific writing,wonderful characters	James lee Burke is one of thosed underrated masters of prose,forever delegated to second rung because of his genre. Heavens prisoners, the second in this series,is,in many ways, the best. Dave Robicheux, the alcoholic new Orleans cop,is out fishing when a single engine plane crashes into the lake,and everything changes.Mr. Burke's descriptions of alcoholic despair and rage are perhaps the finest,and least sentimental I have read. The violence is brutal and freakish in its intensity[as violence is],the dialogue is so well written that i feel for these characters,and want to read more. Though much Longer then Neon rain, the first entry,Mr. Burkes seems to hold the intensity through the narrative. From the lousiana locales to histroical comments on Cajuns, from Cletus Purcell{his sort of sidekick]to the suprising[at least for me] ending, Mr. Burke solidifes himself as one superb writer.And, fortunately, the series goes on ...	2000-10-15
US	49789211	R1UCA5Q3L1Q6HV	0802135749	957753842	The Autobiography of a Tibetan Monk	Books	5	11	12	N	Y	Stirring,compassionate memoir	Ven. Palden Gyatso was the longest held prisoner in Chinese camps since the occupation of Tibet. This memoir,told in clean,plain prose{a kudo to the translator]is horrifying in its matter-of-fact detailing of the horrors of Tibetan prisons.The graphic descriptions of the tortures that Ven. Gyataso endured left me queasy,and yet a thread of hope continue throughout the book. From group re-education to starvation to penal camp labor and extreme torture[one of which lest him,unconscious for an indeterminate time,in a pool of blood,urine,feces and 20 of his teeth],Ven. Palden Gyatso somehow emerged from this,then escaped to Dharmasala,India the home of the Dalai lama{the story of his meeting the Dalai lama and the frontpiece poem are lovely].I was left with the feeling of awe, actual awe at this man,and how he emerged WITHOUT BITTERNESS.Astonishing. Read this book.Give it to another.It, like  its author, is extraordinary	2000-10-13
US	49789211	R3AYLBMBC23271	072253955X	777064955	The Dalai Lama's Book of Wisdom	Books	5	84	85	N	Y	compassion,service	In this small{literally] book, HH Dalai lama speaks of compassion,ridding oneself of anger,forgiveness of enemies,living life in a truly more loving way. Though much of it seems familar to western ears[the ideas of love compassion and service are not unknown in western religion and philosophy],the simplicity of much of what the dalai lama says is striking. His own struggles with anger are enlightening,and the prose,gleaned from lectures I believe, is smooth and cleanly  transformed into english.There are other books of the dalai lama that are far more demanding{&quot;tranforming the mind&quot; for example},though few are more accesible. A lovely gift,a wonderful introduction to one of the masters of the day.	2000-10-11
US	49789211	RQQ4WSG677OL2	0618056750	998365418	A Journey in Ladakh: Encounters with Buddhism	Books	4	27	28	N	Y	Beautiful,pointed marred by a biting afterward	Andrew Harvey is an excellent writer.his writings,even on esoterica,have a light touch, making them accessible to those of us without a first at Oxford. This book is a well written decrpitive early gem by Mr. Harvey.Ladakh is [was?]the last pristine place of tibetan buddhism left on the planet. Mr Harvey goes in search of it,and ,of course, himself. The results are surprising, and very well done. The early parts of the book deal with the travel,and it occasionally borders on poetry.The meat of the book,as it were,is Mr. Harvey's encounter with a Tibetan Rinpoche,and the subsequent effect on his life.His conversations with the rinpoche,juxtaposed with his nights drinking chang[the local brew]in a Ladakhan saloon, are wonderful, and make the text much more enjoyable, and less self inflating. After all of this, Mr. Harvey writes an afterward 20 years later[this is a reprint]and he seems to have been ahving a bad day.After stopping just short of accusing the dalai lama of homophobia[traced to some of The Dalai lamas remarks made in San Francisco, I think,}he pounds the tibetan exile community,brings up the patrichial setup of traditional tibetan life[from a feminist perspective],and generally gets more heated in 3 pages than the previous 220+. Odd way to end a lovely book.	2000-10-10
US	49789211	R1MZC31L0DYW3D	0671023373	104801902	Man's Search For Meaning	Books	5	2	2	N	N	An Essential book to understand the 20th century	Essential,painful,awesome,ultimately uplifting.Another strong antidote to new-age fuzzines practiced by PBS snake oil hustlers. Real pain,actual expierence,astonishing,almost unbelievable horrors which led to logotherapy.Frankl, who passed away the same time as Mother theresa and Diana Spencer,recieved the least treatment in the press of the three.And may have had the greatest impact. A tour de force!A Masterpiece!	2000-09-21
US	49789211	R2NY27SKM04H8G	006018793X	998880928	Witness to Hope: The Biography of Pope John Paul II	Books	2	22	58	N	Y	Informative,heavily slanted,ultimately disappointing	Mr Weigel has fashioned a mammoth,rather well written book On His Holiness  that attempts to make him into the image that Mr. weigel wants{or thinks  exists}.This is quite common among writers,biographres and historians. Mr.  weigel is a fellow at a think tank,and naturally,follows that course in  putting his politics into his perceptions of His Holiness.The people around  His Holiness have alloewd a cult to appear around His Holiness,and they  brook no opposition. Of course,this issue is not addressed.Also  ignored[sadly,really] are His Holiness' constant berating of American  materialism,his condemnation of the Gulf War{50+ public denouncements},his  outright rejection of the cuban embargo{in his visit},his gross  minprouncements on Buddhism in  Crossing the Threshold of Hope,and his  incorrect judgement of Islam in the same volume..Mr weigel had great  access,and sadly,chooses only to present his own views.The first part of  the book, is the best. The treatment of archbishop Romero[extensively  examined in both Tad Szulac 's and Jonathan Kwitney's very sympathetic  biographies} is of course,given a page and a half. Opus dei,the bugaboo of  so many{what is everyone so afraid of,anyway?]is deemed too hot a topic,so  it would seem. Altogether,another greatly missed opportunity to get deep  inside this wonderful,contradictory giant.Taken together with Tad Szulac's  workmanlike biography and Jon Kwitney's fun,error riddled bio,this is  merely one part of a growing collection. Perhaps,one day, a true critical  historian will take full amesure of this man, when the cult of personality  has waned. That day had not yet come.A HUGE DISSAPOINTMENT!!!!!!!!I could  watch television if I want my information slanted . John Paul II is no  Reaganite{nor is he a Rooseveltian }He is beyond that,and THAT is what is  missing,that element of truth.	2000-09-12
US	49789211	R7XSJWC3T4B89	080913912X	765280092	Pope Pius XII: Architect for Peace	Books	2	2	28	N	N	Again, selective histroy	Pius XII,either was an virulent anti-semite{John Cornwell],or a great  defender of the Jews of Europe{Fr. Blet,Sr. Marchione}.Perhaps the truth is  more elusive,and far more subtle.This book is another apology for Pope  PiusXII&gt;perhaps in the issue of fairness, every copy of Cornwell's  sensationalist bio should have come with a caveat.So should this.  Historians always come with a bias,the honest ones are forthright .This  book adds NO NEW THING TO THIS SAD ARGUMENT. THERE ARE NO SECRET VATICAN  FILES THAT WILL ABSOLVE POPE PIUS XII{they would have come forth already}we  are left with the verdict of History,ambiguous as that is .Everyone.  literally EVERYONE could have done more. that they did not is to thier  lasting shame.As D. bonhoeffer said&quot;whomever does not cry out for the  Jews has no right to chant the gregorian.&quot;As Catholics,perhaps we  should grow up,accept that our leaders have been and are deeply flawed  human beings[like the apostles themselves], and get on with the ideal of  reconciliation,the practice of love and compassion. Putting this laborious  and ultimately sad issue to rest would help.	2000-09-04
US	49789211	RHJLJPG5Z2Y5O	006018793X	998880928	Witness to Hope: The Biography of Pope John Paul II	Books	2	21	41	N	Y	Good research,solid writing,JPII as neo-conservative	In this massive biography,obviously a labor of love,Mr. Weigel has  fashioned a portrait of His Holiness to match his own political beliefs.  the more difficult of His Holiness' papacy are brushed over  lovingly{Archbishop Romero,for example} in favor of philosophical  argument.Labor unions are also ignored{rather odd considering that His  Holiness wrote Sollicitudo Rei Socialis and Laborem Exercens},it would  appear simply because it works against the basic thesis of Mr. Weigel. Too  bad, for he writes well, had unlimited access,and could really have done  something. Our Sunday Visitor took Mr. Weigel to task for his omission of  Labor and Social concerns{OSV is hardly a &quot;liberal&quot;  publication},as did the Houston Catholic Worker,a publication that simply  Adores His Holiness, quotes him extensively, and practices what they  preach.Which, in the end is all that any of us, His Holiness, Mr. weigel,  or myself, can do.	2000-09-03
US	49789211	R2NLF7K5M2ADNO	1570753059	129729826	The Bride: Images of the Church	Books	5	7	8	N	Y	Beautiful	Dan Berrigan and william Mcnichols have combined thier gifts to bring about this gift . Fr. Mcnichols is a renowned writer of Icons, Fr Daniel Berrigan, poet, prophet priest{though that sounds too easy}. With this  eclectic choice of icons{a Zen nun from ireland, a female physician mystic  from Europe}, and the poetic text of Fr. Berrigan, this is an excellent  meditative tool,lovely to look at,pleasant to hold.Well done by the  publisher as well.Another book of awe from one of the sanest men of the  20th century	2000-07-24
US	49789211	R2KKP40NW4DQYW	0664221300	737733326	Soul among Lions: Musings of a Bootleg Preacher	Books	5	11	11	N	Y	Another gem from Brother Will	Will D. Campbell, &quot;bootleg preacher&quot; to the unwashed and unlovable,has penned another book of wonder. Brother to a Dragonfly is viewed a modern classic[as it is}.Soul among Lions is a worthy cousin.  Brother Will has stayed busy, stirring up a hornets nest wherever he can,  placing a well intentioned burr in the saddle of the powerful. The short,  wonderful essays are a goldmine for the comitted christian{though, of  course, that statement covers an awful lot of ground}.Read Brother will,  then look at yourself. If you are not challenged,read it again. To comfort  the powerless and make the powered uncomfortable, and to do it with wit,  and poetry.Quite a book, quite a human being.	2000-07-24
US	49789211	R3Z3J0M9PL1T7	1563382288	903108464	The God of Jesus: The Historical Jesus and the Search for Meaning	Books	4	8	21	N	N	Quite good, despite its bias	When I saw the Jesus seminar imprimatur,[a positive review by JD  Crossnan,R Funk,et.al},i slogged onwards,anyway.What a delight.Dr.  Patterson,despite the annoying footnotes{the Jesus seminar voting  system..by the way, isn't the director of the movie SHOWGIRLS a memeber of  the Jesus seminar?},the book is not overly technichal,not pedantic.It reads  well, summons up a great deal of modern Historical Jesus scholarship,adds a  rather moving plea for tolerence[both sides,now}.Despite its  limitations[this over dependence on the Gospel of Thomas, this notion of  Jesus being a wandering cynic[?},it is a fine, excellent INTRODUCTION to  the debate.Well done, dr. Patterson	2000-07-10
US	49789211	R2UYEUKCJAA43M	1565112539	101552875	The Glory of Their Times	Books	5	2	2	N	N	For baseball fans,the dead sea scrolls	The glory of their times is ,simply the greatest baseball compilation ever recorded{Roger angel's books are better,different,in that they are ESSAY'S]Reading and re-reading this book,I wondered what it actually  sounded like to record this,to expierence.Well, after purchasing this cD,I  know. This is the greatest baseball find I could imagine.the quality of the  recordings is uniformly good[some parts are less audible then others].The  content is pure joy.How wonderful to HEAR sam Crawford, Lefty O'Doul[were  there any finer men to play baseball?]One can only wish that someone had  done the same with the great Negro League players ...alas,though that does  not detract from this Brilliant recording{s].I would give it 6 10 a  pantheon of stars...it is that good	2000-07-03
US	49789211	R298THZLR0TS9E	1892129329	300683625	Smoke: The Romance and Lore of Cuban Baseball	Books	4	1	1	N	N	What a delight!	This book is obviously a labor of love.A caveat: if you are living in south florida,and spend your waking hours devising ways to eliminate fidel from his vital organs,this book is not for you.If you are able to simply  enjoy a wonderful banquet of baseball,then this book is a treat. There are  typos,reversed photographs[the great tony olivia batting righthanded?],and  the authors wistfully  enjoying a baseball game without the barrage of  advertisements[sure to ignite some of the flat earthers].Despite this,the  book was informative,the format lavish,the quality top rate.10 years from  now, when the stalinist government of fidel is replaced by a ruthlessly  authoritarian government[some of these folks have ben waiting 42 years for  payback],this book will take its rightful place as a fine addition to any  baseball library.Until then,the disproportionate influence of a community  with a head full of revenge will obscure anything to do with cuba.Too bad.	2000-06-23
US	49789211	R107K1UEJQI2A4	0878331778	273518660	Durocher's Cubs: The Greatest Team That Didn't Win	Books	3	4	4	N	N	It's time to put this to bed	1969.The country is at war,internal and external.Ted kennedy is driving to oblivion,Nixon is baiting democrats and making overtures to china.apollo 11 is winning the souped up drag race to the moon.the cubs,under leo  durocher,are dominating the newly alligned nl east,chased by the ghost of a  cardinal's team[the real question is what happened THERE?] and ,the until  then hapless ny mets.The myth is that the cubs were the better team which  collapsed down the stretch and the mets &quot;backed' in.Well,this book  will niether add nor detract from that argument.fact,the mets won 100  games.Nobody backs in with 100 win.If anyone had a real beef,it was the  baltimore orioles,a far superior team to any of the decade!Still,this lame  debate has raged on ,supported by an inane old timers game a few years  back,the world series that should have been,between the orioles and  cubs.Mercy. The book does touch on some memorable players,including the  great Billy Williams,the singular most underrated baseball player of the  last 35 years.Still,one gets this gnawing feeling,that occurs sometimes in  sports.for no known or measurable reason,one team does get every break  imaginable.The mets were certainly that team that year.The cubs of 1969  will always be a very good team that didnt really do it,head to head,down  the stretch,when they had to.That is a tough legacy. But an honest one of a  good team with some great players{the aformentioned Williams,a twilighting  Ernie Banks, the should be hall of famer ron santo,and fergie jenkins}, a  once brilliant manager and spectacular fans.	2000-06-20
US	49789211	R2O5HNGAJTDJQM	0446311030	268295127	Five Seasons: A Baseball Companion	Books	5	7	9	N	N	the best baseball book ever.Period.	Perhaps there is a quibble here.maybe the summer game is the finest baseball book ever written.Roger Angell is a poet[appropriate for e.b. white's stepson],and the finest chronichler of the game. he is a FAN,not a  beat reporter,and is a grown up, far more interested in the beauty on the  field than the foibles off.From the opening essay on the ball itself,to a  wonderful essay on three detroit tiger fans,this is lovely. HOW COULD THE  PUBLISHERS LET THIS GO OUT OF PRINT? With the unfettered garbage [george  will's pompous assinine writings come to mind] that is baseball  publishing,allowing this to languish out of print is sad, if not a crime.	2000-06-18
US	49789211	R9FZY5AHZL4ZS	0684815001	763680226	The Cost of Discipleship	Books	5	13	15	N	N	aaaThe antithesis to american fundamentalist 'christianity&quot;.	Dietrich Bonhoeffer's demanding book is mandantory for any professing christian{i think he would sqirm at that term.}The idea that one would be &quot;saved&quot; simply by saying so is repugnant to one who saw what was  coming.Read some popular &quot;religious&quot; christian literature,then  read Bonhoeffer.You will realize that he is speaking of a completely  different faith,never mind religion.No fuzzy new-age garbage here.I cannot  imagine an adult who would not be troubled by Bonhoeffer,for there seems to  be no distinction between what he said, and what he did.Would that be true  for all.	2000-06-15
US	49789211	R2H32FXNP14E8G	1929039026	77994941	The Anonymous Disciple	Books	4	6	6	N	N	a sentimental,lovely book	mr goggins,author of the terrific half wits,has fashioned a fine,sweet tale of woe and friendship between 2 alcoholic jesuit priests.Jim collins and father fred[the real father fred of fr. fred and the 12 steps,an  absolutely brilliant exposition of the 12 steps of alcoholics  anonymous].The story unfolds over what appears to be a 20 year period. the  scenes of alcoholic pain and denial are very well done.The all too brief  glimpses into each man's spiritual life are clear and unmuddled by some of  the mawkishness that slightly detracts from this terrific read.i came about  this book by accident,gave it to a friend who loved it,and so on.first rate  descriptions of the ravages of alcoholism,and even better of its  recovery.well done.	2000-06-02
US	49789211	R3K84BBGFWTLAI	0609600788	271579697	How to Know God: The Soul's Journey into the Mystery of Mysteries	Books	1	16	42	N	N	does anyone really  READ this drivel?	zFresh from his latest spiritual snake-oil-athon on p.b.s.,Mr. Chopra now takes on ,ah hem,God.If you are an aging yuppie,making well into 6 figures,then here is you man.No sacrifice,no sweat spirituality.If I  believed for a moment that Mr. chopra was anything other then a salesman  offering his wares to people who want desperately to believe without any  fuss,it would be troubling. As it is, it is merely pathetic.There is a  plethora of wonderful,meaningful spirituality in print.People like thomas  merton,andrew harvey,martin buber,thich nhat hanh henri nouwen,m.r. bawa  muhaiyaddeen,a.j. heschel just to barely skim the surface.This,is simply  garbage.	2000-06-02
US	49789211	R2O0JG7X08O4W4	0874869528	376702724	Daniel: Under the Siege of the Divine	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Again,Fr. Daniel Berrigan shakes the foundations	In DANIEL,Fr. Daniel Berrigan,priest,poet,prophet takes on that strange book of the Biblical prophet Daniel.As in his earlier works,Isiah,Ezekiel and after this in Jeremiah,Berrigan seamlessly[well,most of the  time]relates modern day society with the doomed cultures of which the  prophets spoke.Daniel Berrigan has been,for some,a pain in the  neck,a,burr,for others, as a previous reviewer wrote, the sanest man of the  20th century. What struck me in this book is how GROUNDED Berrigan is in  the scriptures, unlike many catholics of his or any generation.Poetically,  Daniel Berrigan once more shows how these ancient, musty texts are  alive,not simply relevant but breathing.If he is not the sanest man of the  20th century,he's damn close.	2000-06-01
US	49789211	R2K4T7LAQV11P5	0964643987	974321724	Father Fred and the Twelve Steps: A Primer for Recovery	Books	5	16	17	N	N	The best book on the 12 steps i have encountered	This is a simple,brilliant explanation of the 12 steps of alcoholics anonymous.Father Fred explains the steps in clean plain prose[though the ist edition is littered with typos].His explanation of the 2nd step is  particularly excellent,though after a rather slow ist step introduction,  each of the steps are magnificent. Pardon the hyperbole, but this is one of  the few necessary books I own. I have given out at LEAST 50 copies of this  book,and I have found 1,1 person who did not find it very  useful.Anyone,especially those in A. a. ,will find it 's clarity and  brevity welcome. Do not be put off by the title,it is not a sectarian  religious book.	2000-05-07
