US	49797633	R84KHT5O0MVB6	0374135770	849361930	Inside Hitler's Bunker: The Last Days of the Third Reich	Books	5	2	6	N	N	The end of a world	During his last days, a stooped Adolf Hitler shuffled through the corridors of his underground bunker in Berlin. Sometimes he had to stop and lean against the concrete walls, because he had trouble keeping his balance. Hitler appeared to be at the point of complete physical collapse, but that appearance was deceptive. He still had a ferocious will to destroy, and he would keep that will to the very end. \\"Inside Hitler's Bunker\\" tells the story of that end. This is a short book, but there is much depth of understanding within it. There is understanding about Hitler's motivation and real purpose, and the total destruction of the world that he created in Germany between 1933 and 1945. The final wave of nightmarish events that took place in Hitler's bunker are vividly described in this book.  From these pages it is clear that Hitler's only legacy to Germany and the world was one of utter devastation and ruin.	2005-05-31
US	49797633	R2FWX5MSS3HM2G	0060763418	821563718	One Soldier's Story: A Memoir	Books	5	6	7	N	N	A story of courage	Bob Dole grew up in Kansas, in the heartland of America. He lived in a small town that reflected the values of love, faith and hard work. He had dreams of becoming a great athlete and of later becoming a doctor, but those dreams were forever changed by the Second World War. While serving in Italy near the end of the war, he was severely wounded. His right shoulder and spinal cord suffered massive damage. Physically, he would never be the same again. Like so many others of his generation who had sacrificed so much, he would never be able to live the dreams of his youth. He had lived through a very close call with death, and he would almost die several times as he struggled to recover. He had to learn how to stand and to walk again, and to make slow progress in agonizing inches. Many times in accounts of war the fate of the wounded is not mentioned in any detail. The long difficult journey to recover is very rarely addressed. This book describes that journey with great honesty. It also describes with love and appreciation the family members and friends that helped along the way. This is a story about the courage that it takes to face the heat and horror of battle; but it is also about finding the courage to live long after the battle is over. The courage to live and to face each day. Bob Dole always found that courage, and he writes about it in this very moving book. He writes about it for an entire generation of Americans. Since the time of the war, Bob Dole has felt that the real heroes were the men and women that never came back. He says these words with great humility, but I think that the many thousands of Americans that came home alive from the war also showed great courage. They also fought to free a suffering humanity. I think that they are also heroes, and that one of them is Bob Dole.	2005-05-05
US	49797633	R37M6R7UZHP22M	0140189378	105415017	Seize the Day (Penguin Twentieth Century Classics)	Books	5	6	7	N	N	To really live each day	In every life there are days of reckoning, and moments of supreme truth. When those days occur and we look back on everything that has happened in our lives, then what is to be seen and known? In &quot;Seize The Day&quot;, Tommy Wilhelm has such a day of reckoning, when everything in his life reaches a turning point of disintegration and despair. Everything seems to fall apart before his eyes, as old wounds from his past are laid completely bare. His deepest wish is for a measure of genuine love and respect, amid the ruins of a life that has never been fully lived. In many ways Tommy Wilhelm's story is the story of all of us, as we search for real meaning each day. Like Tommy Wilhelm we struggle to seize the day, and to find something of value in the ever passing moments of our lives.	2002-01-21
US	49797633	R2MCTXVNJKOAA4	1893622118	702699334	Heartsongs	Books	5	64	77	N	N	A book of beautiful poems	&quot;Heartsongs&quot; is not a very long book, but it is a book that will touch your heart. Mattie Stepanek was only eleven years old when he wrote &quot;Heartsongs&quot;, and he has endured much pain and grief in his short life. He has seen three of his siblings pass away from a rare form of muscular dystrophy, and he suffers from the same condition. Echoes of Mattie's pain can be found in some of his poems, but they are mainly dominated by a sense of love for everything in the universe and a deep desire for world peace. Mattie wants to be a peacemaker, and his poems are filled with peace and childhood wonder. Sometimes the deepest wisdom comes from children, and that is very true about this beautiful book of poems. This book leaves you with the thought that beauty is in the eye of the beholder; and in the heart of hearts.	2001-12-31
US	49797633	R2M0F3NFUTVD2Q	0231120680	900627847	In His Own Right	Books	5	8	8	N	N	A Unique Political Journey	&quot;In His Own Right&quot;, describes Robert Kennedy's political journey in the years after President Kennedy's assassination in 1963. Robert Kennedy suffered through a time of deep sorrow and grief after the death of his brother, and began a struggle to find his own political voice. RFK was in a unique position of national prominence, and many people looked to him to take the place of his slain brother. This book tells the story of how his political views began to change and evolve through very turbulent times both at home and abroad. Robert Kennedy had always been in the shadow of his brother, but he gradually began to stand in his own right. His own unique heart and spirit began to emerge, and it ultimately revolved around a sense of compassion and justice. By the time that he ran for President in 1968, there was much that Robert Kennedy could have given to America and to the world. This book explores that final political campaign, and the path that RFK always strived to find and follow.	2001-09-28
US	49797633	R2CLEP6INNQE7R	0395895448	458706233	Searching for America's Heart: RFK and the Renewal of Hope	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Remembering the forgotten Americans	Robert Kennedy had a rare understanding of the poor, and he tried to help those that live in poverty. He understood poverty in terms of individual faces; and not as a nameless mass of people that can be easily grouped together or defined. Often he would go and meet people that lived in desperate conditions of poverty. He cared enough to go to places that other political leaders would avoid. Peter Edelman worked for Robert Kennedy in the years from 1964-1968. He believes that the vision that Robert Kennedy had for America's poor is still very valid today. That vision is presented in &quot;Searching For America's Heart&quot;. Kennedy believed in a very broad based effort against poverty that recognized the responsibility of government and all other segments of society; combined together with the vital responsibility of the individual. He believed that there should always be a safety net for those in dire need. He genuinely wanted to help people to have a better life, and to care for their children. That spirit has often been lost in today's world, and millions of Americans, a great number of them children; still live in poverty. Most of the poor are rarely thought about or seen by other people, and it is almost as if they do not exist at all. They are truly the forgotten Americans. But Edelman points out that there is much that we can do that could change this tragic reality, and that we can remember the heart that Robert Kennedy saw in America. That American heart is defined by decency, justice and fairness for all citizens. This book presents the challenge of finding and rekindling that most essential American heart.	2001-09-07
US	49797633	R3VNAWNYW7AMV1	1559717823	206409207	Water: The Drop of Life (Companion to the Public Television Series)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	The gift of water	&quot;Water: The Drop Of Life&quot;, is a companion book to the PBS series about water. The book is well written, and also stands well on it's own describing water usage in much of the world today. Water is a precious resource, but it is often not thought of in that way. Instead, water is often wasted and misused in many places. Contaminated water is also the source of great tragedy and suffering. Millions of people die every year from water borne diseases, including a huge number of children. This book tells the story of the consequences of bad water, and of ongoing efforts to improve the quality of water everywhere. With continuing increases in the world's population, water resources are being strained as never before. Something has to be done on a worldwide scale, or there is going to be a massive water crisis in this century. This book helps to bring the problem into clear focus, and provides possible solutions for the future. It helps us to understand one of nature's greatest gifts; a gift that is far too often taken for granted. This book provides valuable insights and information into the many uses of water.	2001-08-31
US	49797633	RYUGK1V19DY5Y	0743407024	230605125	An Illustrated Viking Voyage: Retracing Leif Eriksson's Journey In An Authentic Viking Knarr	Books	5	4	8	N	N	Retracing an historic odyssey	Leif Eriksson was a great explorer, traveling from Greenland to North America long before the time of Christopher Columbus. Eriksson and his Viking crew were the first known Europeans to set foot upon the North American Continent. More than a thousand years after Eriksson's time, a group of sailors and friends from Maine had the dream of recreating his voyage. &quot;Viking Voyage&quot; tells the story of that dreams realization. Using designs from Denmark and Greenland, an authentic Viking boat was built. The sailors from Maine were joined in their quest by crew members from Greenland and Denmark. The new Vikings set off on two voyages in 1997 and 1998, following the path of Eriksson from so long ago. They had to overcome many difficulties, and at one point faced the prospect of their boat beginning to fall apart in mid ocean. They journeyed through the often treacherous Artic waters between Greenland and Canada. They faced the same cold and misery that the Vikings of old had known. The crew also had moments of great exhilaration, and they began to think and feel in much the same way as the Vikings. Their voyage became not only a recreation of Eriksson's expedition, but an odyssey through time itself. &quot;Viking Voyage&quot; is richly illustrated with beautiful photographs, and it helps us to understand the Viking way of life. There is a special magic within this book: a magic of seeking and reaching for dreams.	2001-07-06
US	49797633	R1L9ZYHRGE23Y7	0060394072	745283847	American Terrorist: Timothy McVeigh and the Oklahoma City Bombing	Books	5	17	19	N	N	A fatal journey into darkness	The bombing of the Murrah Federal Building in Oklahoma City is one of the most horrifying acts in American history. It is hard to comprehend how anyone could willingly create such an ocean of destruction and grief. Timothy McVeigh was responsible for the bombing, and the authors of &quot;American Terrorist&quot; have penetrated the veil of mystery that surrounded him. Lou Michel and Dan Herbeck spent many long hours interviewing McVeigh in prison. They carried out extensive research for their book that took place over several years. The picture that emerges from their writing is often very unsettling, because it strikes so very close to home. McVeigh was not a terrorist from a foreign land, but an American. He served his country with distinction during the Desert Storm campaign, and yet he could kill more than a hundred fellow Americans with a truck bomb. This book goes into McVeigh's past, and describes much of his life. It helps us to understand how he ended up in Oklahoma City on that fateful day in 1995. There is much about Timothy McVeigh that can never be understood, but the authors have done an admirable job of looking into his mind and heart. By looking into that heart, a door is opened into an abyss. There is the hope that something good can come from that looking; something learned that might help prevent such horror in the future. The suffering and pain of the victims is very often stressed within this book. At the end of &quot;American Terrorist&quot;, there is a section that lists the names and ages of those that were murdered in Oklahoma City. That moving list of very real people shows the actual legacy that Timothy McVeigh left for the world: a legacy of death and sorrow. Timothy McVeigh's  story is a journey into the true heart of darkness.	2001-06-12
US	49797633	R2T395W81HYMUB	0679641009	339675227	In the Land of White Death : An Epic Story of Survival in the Siberian Arctic	Books	5	3	4	N	N	A classic story of survival	In 1912 Valerian Albanov and the crew of the Russian ship 'Saint Anna' made a journey to the Siberian Artic. The purpose of the voyage was to find new hunting grounds for the prized animals that lived in that part of the world. From the beginning, almost everything that could go wrong did for the Saint Anna. None of the extra preparations necessary for such a journey were nearly adequate enough,and the ship left port too late in the year. The Saint Anna was soon trapped in a sea of ice,and left to the mercy of nature. The icebound ship drifted ever northward for more than a year. The provisions on the Saint Anna would eventually be exhausted, and Albanov decided to leave the ship with a group of volunteers. They began a perilous journey over the ice toward a very distant and largely unknown shore, seeking their own survival and the rescue of their still icebound shipmates. Death was constantly near Albanov and his companions in the forbidding and desolate Artic silence. They travelled through the 'land of white death'. They constantly battled ice, blinding snows and bitter winds; as well as their own hunger and lack of supplies. They also had to battle to maintain a sense of loyalty to each other. Through every hardship, Albanov kept striving for his crew's ultimate salvation. This book is based on a diary that Albanov wrote as he fought to survive with his companions, trying to endure through everything that they encountered. This is a very well written, deeply engrossing true story of survival.	2001-05-03
US	49797633	RS6O4BAMYJ2Z6	037550513X	218244642	My War: A Love Story in Letters and Drawings	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Moving memories of love and war	Tracy Sugarman is a veteran of the Second World War. In 1944 he served in the United States Navy during the D-Day Invasion, and for many of the months of battle that followed in Europe. &quot;My War&quot; tells his personal wartime story, through a series of letters and drawings that he sent back home to his beloved wife June. Sugarman is an artist, and his sketches and drawings visually touch the heart by showing moments of life and death from a time of devastating warfare. His letters to June are very moving to read, describing his experiences in the war as well as some deeply felt hopes and dreams for the future. In one passage of the book Sugarman writes of the war as being like a journey through a long, dark cave. There was nothing to be done but to keep walking through the darkness, and to keep praying and working for the triumph of what is good. This book is a story of love and duty, and a generation that was willing to sacrifice itself for the sake of a better world. It is especially a tribute to June, because for Sugarman she always represented the best of everything. There is an enduring message in this book that through all the days that a person may live, and through times of war and peace; that the best memories of all are the memories of love.	2001-01-29
US	49797633	R1LO8EDOBPP7W6	1575000989	703420551	Children in War	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Haunting images of war	One of the most heartbreaking legacies of war is the lasting affect that it has on children. In the introduction of &quot;Children In War&quot;, it is noted that two million children were killed in wars over the last ten years, and that millions more were injured and orphaned during that same timespan. Alan and Susan Raymond wanted to bring that stark reality to the worlds attention, and they accomplished that goal by making a television documentary and a book called &quot;Children In War&quot;. The book describes the horror of war through the words and experiences of children; children from the nations of Bosnia, Rwanda, Northern Ireland and Israel. The book is filled with pictures drawn by children from those nations, as well as photographs of the children themselves. The images drawn are not only about the physical death that comes from war, but also about wounds of the heart and spirit that can last a lifetime. The pictures drawn by the children are very haunting and moving. The authors believe that the act of drawing and remembering can be a form a therapy for the children, and a way of beginning to heal. Perhaps it can also serve as a path to finding a sense of peace. There is a hope found in this book that in the future the children who have suffered so much will have the wisdom to help create a better world; a world where adults will always strive to protect all children from the harm and destruction of war.	2001-01-15
US	49797633	R2BFKKTSZ1EWON	0393318346	580762283	Thirteen Days: A Memoir of the Cuban Missile Crisis	Books	5	57	59	N	N	A powerful memoir of nuclear crisis	Robert Kennedy wrote &quot;Thirteen Days&quot; a short time before his death in 1968. He never had the chance to rewrite and add additional material to his book; but as written it is a riveting account of the Cuban missile crisis in 1962. In the Autumn of 1962 the Soviet Union was placing nuclear missiles in Cuba. President Kennedy had to respond to that imminent threat, and the question was what course to take about the dangerous situation in Cuba. There were many that favored an immediate overwhelming military response to destroy the missiles; but Robert Kennedy favored surrounding the island with a naval blockade instead. He believed that a military attack on Cuba could lead to nuclear war, and that it should only be undertaken if there was no other choice. President Kennedy and his advisors spent many agonizing hours trying to consider every possible miscalculation or false step that could result in catastrophe. They sought to learn from the history of the past, and tried to follow a path of understanding in dealing with the Soviet Union and Cuba. The decisions that were made about Cuba would affect the lives of everyone on earth, and the lives of future generations as yet unborn. In this book the momentous events of the crisis in 1962 are seen through the eyes of Robert Kennedy. He opens the door to that time as only one who was there could, and gives many valuable insights into the mind of his brother the President. He helps us to understand what really happened in October 1962; and why. This is a very fine book, containing lessons of history that should always be remembered during times of great crisis.	2001-01-13
US	49797633	RMFDN2FJ5X89P	1585740497	191059664	Disaster at the Pole: The Tragedy of the Airship Italia and the 1928 Nobile Expedition to the North Pole	Books	5	6	6	N	N	A journey of courage and endurance	In the early years of the twentieth century, there were several explorers that journeyed to the North Pole. They went to vast desolate regions of terrible cold, to places of the earth that no man had gone to before. One of those explorers was Umberto Nobile of Italy. Nobile is not very well known today, but he was a man of great honor and courage. This book tells his personal story, and the story of his final polar expedition in 1928. Nobile chose a unique method for exploring the Pole: he used a lighter than air airship named the Italia. The Italia was similar in general design to the famous Hindenberg, but it was smaller and more flexible in flight. Nobile meticulously planned his exploration, but despite those preparations disaster struck and the Italia crashed onto the polar ice. The survivors then had to struggle with great endurance through desperate conditions. This is ultimately a book about courage, both from the crew of the Italia and those that tried to save them in one of the largest rescue efforts ever undertaken. Nobile had to also endure much unjust criticism and political pressure from the Fascist Government of Mussolini. His story shows how hard it can be to extend the frontiers of science; and the tremendous heart that is required to reach into the unknown.	2000-12-18
US	49797633	R3MO9RPTVM4MS1	1580620604	737141375	Beyond Hitler's Grasp: The Heroic Rescue of Bulgaria's Jews	Books	5	16	17	N	N	A story of courage during the Holocaust	There were acts of courage that took place during the course of the Holocaust that are not very well known. Many of those courageous acts occured in a surprising place: the nation of Bulgaria in Eastern Europe. During the war Bulgaria was an ally of Nazi Germany, and under intense pressure to surrender its' 50,000 Jewish citizens to Germany. The Jews would then be taken to their deaths in Poland. Early in 1943 plans for the deportation of the Bulgarian Jews were drawn up by Bulgarian and Nazi leaders, and the deadly process was well under way. Long empty trains began arriving at key stations in Bulgaria, ready to take the Jews to Poland. Everything was prepared for the purpose of death; meticulously planned. Within a few short hours, the Jews would be brutally herded to the trains and taken away. The Jews of Bulgaria would disappear forever in Poland, and it seemed that there was nothing that could be done to help them. But then, almost literally at the eleventh hour, the process of deportation was stopped and the Jews of Bulgaria were saved. The trains had to leave the stations, completely empty. The story of the Bulgarian leaders and citizens that moved to save the Jews at that final hour is tense and nerve-wracking. This book tells that story, and the constant battle of wits and wills between those that wished to destroy life; and those that wished to save it. This book reaches a very deep level, because it shows what can happen when people act on what they know is right. This is a book of great moral courage, at a time when it was most desperately needed.	2000-10-01
US	49797633	RY1QOAZZVPONO	0393320278	699211673	Embracing Defeat: Japan in the Wake of World War II	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A vivid portrait of postwar Japan	&quot;Embracing Defeat&quot;, begins on August 15,1945. On that day came  the most momentous hour in Japanese history. For the first time ever, the  Emperor spoke directly to the Japanese people by radio and announced that  the war was over. Emperor Hirohito did not use the Japanese words for  surrender and defeat in his address to the people; but his meaning was  clear. Japan would have to endure the unendurable, and accept defeat. In  many accounts of that time in history the Japanese are shadowy figures that  lack depth or clarity of understanding. In this book the Japanese emerge  from the ashes of defeat, and their story is vividly told. John Dower  writes about the actions of great historical figures like General Macarthur  and Emperor Hirohito, and also about the lives of ordinary people from all  segments of Japanese society. After the war the Japanese faced the specter  of hunger, exhaustion, and despair; and the devastation of most of their  major cities. Millions of lives had been lost in the war, and the fate of  vast numbers of Japanese citizens was unknown. The Japanese had to face  that hard reality, and their own responsibility in the creation of so much  suffering and death. The question of war guilt and the role of the Emperor  is closely examined in the book. There are many fascinating personal  accounts in this book, and the story of the writing of a new Constitution  for Japan is an engrossing one. Above all, this book is the story of the  combined American and Japanese efforts to build a nation of peace from the  shattering horror of total war. I highly recommend this very interesting  and enlightening book.	2000-08-13
US	49797633	R1FWKMADIZU3N	0874519098	251347185	Reflections in Bullough’s Pond: Economy and Ecosystem in New England (Revisiting New England)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A voyage of discovery and understanding	On the front cover of this book, there is a photograph of an Autumn day in  New England. The picture is a very inviting one, with trees beginning to  change color; gently sloping down to a still body of water. The vision  given is one of peace and beauty on Bullough's Pond. There is very often a  deep underlying sense of beauty within this book. Diana Muir describes many  miracles of nature in New England: from the importance of humble algae to  the development of vast forests and watersheds. She writes about the fabric  of life that is always around us, but that usually is invisible to our  eyes. The interdependence of all aspects of life is stressed throughout the  book. This book is a history of the economy and nature of New England, and  it answers the question of why so many changes have taken place in society  and the ecosystem. We learn that nature has always been greatly changed by  the influence of man. Most of the changes have been driven by the constant  growth in population. There was an urgent sense of necessity behind the  Industrial Revolution in New England. In this book there are many  engrossing and fascinating accounts of that revolution; and how inventions  created in New England helped to change the world. The limited resources in  the region actually helped the revolution to grow. With the increase in  populations of the world today, we need to understand as never before the  world that is around us. This book has that sense of needed understanding,  both of the past and for the future. This book helps to prepare for the  future that is before us, by understanding what has gone before.	2000-07-08
US	49797633	RKLJN95Q2DXXE	0553801600	907728694	Off the Mangrove Coast	Books	5	18	19	N	N	Fine stories of courage and adventure	Louis L'Amour was one of the great writers of modern times, and he is sorely missed by everyone that loves a good story. This book is one of the best collections of his short stories, some of them never before published.  His books and stories are often filled with a deep sense of justice, and  the ultimate triumph of all that is right. The stories in &quot;Off The  Mangrove Coast&quot;, follow that pattern. There is the story of a boxer,  seeking justice for the cruel death of his father. In another story a man  goes out into the jungles of Borneo, trying to rescue some tourists from  murderers and headhunters. There is a story about a true friendship that  forms during a perilous journey on the sea, in search of treasure. There  are nine stories included in this book. These are stories about the heart  of adventure and courage, and the surprising good that can sometimes be  found in very unexpected places. Louis L'Amour wanted to be remembered as a  good storyteller, and in this and so many of his other books that wish has  always been fulfilled.	2000-06-29
US	49797633	R3TI9O63FEF2GR	0815606060	648919386	Himmler's Jewish Tailor: The Story of Holocaust Survivor Jacob Frank (Religion, Theology and the Holocaust)	Books	5	8	9	N	N	A very valuable and moving insight into the Holocaust	Jacob Frank speaks with a voice that comes from an ever distant time and place. He grew up in Poland, in a Jewish Society that was almost totally destroyed during the Holocaust. Out of the sixty four members of his family  in Poland, Jacob Frank is the only one that survived. The only physical  remnant of his entire family that still exists is a single photograph of  Jacob Frank and his wife Dora. Mr. Frank carefully sewed the photograph  into his clothing, and kept it hidden during nearly six years of survival  in concentration camps and prisons in Poland and Germany. He wanted always  to remember his wife and family; and to keep their image in his mind and  heart. The poignant photograph of Jacob and Dora Frank is included in the  book. With great courage Jacob Frank tried to protect his family and to  help other people in the concentration camps, but he was trapped in a  nightmare world where life had little or no value. There was not much that  he could do to protect himself, or anyone else. Jacob Frank was valuable to  the Nazis, because of his great skill as a master tailor. They needed him  to make uniforms and suits. Because of his forced duties as a tailor, Mr.  Frank often came into close contact with some of the leading Nazis;  including Heinrich Himmler and Adolf Eichmann. He felt intense fear when he  was in their presence, and sometimes he could not bear to look directly at  their faces. He could only see shadows of evil when he glanced at them. As  one who was there and survived, he speaks with a deep and unique insight  into the Holocaust. He helps us to understand what really happened; and the  men capable of carrying out a plan of genocide on a huge scale. He helps us  to understand the great tragedy of entire families being murdered and lost  forever. The witness and memory of Jacob Frank provide a valuable service  to the world. His important book sheds light on a time of great darkness,  and helps to stand guard against any future Holocaust.	2000-06-21
US	49797633	RFXTB6QXZ2YAD	0802116612	664486647	The Circle of Hanh: A Memoir	Books	5	8	8	N	N	A beautifully written story of redemption	In the first part of &quot;The Circle Of Hanh&quot;, Author Bruce Weigl is in Hong Kong waiting to board a flight for North Vietnam. The wait is an agonizing one, because the airport is terribly crowded and long lines of  people spill over into branching hallways. The lines move at a snails pace.  Weigl is very worried, because he must catch his flight; and time is  running out. In North Vietnam a child is waiting for him: an eight year old  girl that Weigl and his wife had been trying to adopt for a long time. The  line slowly moves, and Weigl finally makes his way to the airline counter.  He hands over his ticket and Visa, and is told that his Visa has expired.  Weigl realizes that an error has been made on his Visa, because it had just  been issued. He tries to explain, but is told that nothing can be done to  help him. He must return to America, and get another Visa. Weigl asks to  speak to a higher ranking Air Vietnam representative. The official comes  and says that he can do nothing to help him either. Then Weigl makes a  final desperate appeal to the Vietnamese official, explaining his mission  to Vietnam. He had to go to Vietnam, and bring a little girl named Hanh to  her new home.  With a very brief time left before departure, the official  allows him to board the plane for Vietnam. Weigl takes the last available  seat on the plane. Those harrowing moments in Hong Kong cover only a few  pages in this beautifully written book. Bruce Weigl is a poet, and a  veteran of the Vietnam War. This book is a memoir of his life. We learn his  story, from the time of his childhood; to the horrible destruction of the  Vietnam War; and the devastation of his own life through alcohol and drugs.  He regained control of his life through poetry and the love of his family.  To redeem a life that too often had been wasted and lost, he wanted to give  something of value. He wanted to give back something of what he had helped  take away. He wanted to give happiness and a good life to a forgotten child  from Vietnam. The story of his journey to give that happiness will touch  your heart. This is a very moving memoir that I highly recommend.	2000-06-06
US	49797633	R28VGO1O8D23Y3	0670891576	624836488	In the Heart of the Sea: The Tragedy of the Whaleship Essex	Books	5	393	407	N	N	A gripping story of men lost at sea	There have been many great stories of survival and tragedy on the seas, and this book is one of the best of them. At one time the story of the Whaleship Essex was well known in America, but gradually that story faded  into memory. Nathaniel Philbrick brings that memory back to life again with  his very well written book. The main events in this book took place in the  time period of 1819-1821. The Essex was based on Nantucket Island, and in  the first part of the book there is a very interesting history of Nantucket  and the Whaling Trade. Enough information is given so that we understand  the world that the men of the Essex lived in, and the ordeal that lay  before them. The Essex was believed to be a lucky ship, but that reputation  of good luck would soon be overwhelmed at sea. After several months at sea,  the Essex was attacked and rammed by an eighty-five foot whale. It is  fascinating to read about the attack of the giant whale on the ship, and to  realize that the attacking whale was the actual basis for the whale in  &quot;Moby Dick&quot;. The Essex was severely damaged and in danger of  sinking after the whale attack, and the crew faced the grim prospect of a  desperate journey in open boats across the Pacific Ocean. The story of  their battle for survival with little food or hope of rescue will grip your  heart. Terrible choices of survival had to be made, and there are graphic  accounts of starvation and cannibalism in the book. This is truly the story  of a great tragedy at sea, but there is also the hope and endurance that  can sometimes be found even in the darkest moments. There are moments of  wonder with thoughts and descriptions of whales and the ever changing sea.  I recommend this book to everyone that loves the history of the Sea, and  the spirit of survival against all odds.	2000-05-26
US	49797633	RZ672WWADQOAG	0060175869	664906388	From Dawn to Decadence: 1500 to the Present: 500 Years of Western Cultural Life	Books	5	309	335	N	N	A fascinating journey through the past 500 years	This book begins with the Protestant Reformation in 1517, and continues to the present day. Many times histories can be very dry and difficult to read, but this 877 page book covers 500 years of Western Cultural Life in a  very readable manner. The focus is on all the facets of Western culture  through the centuries. This book is about 500 years of art, politics,  religion, writing, philosophy, science, morals, and manners. One of the  things that makes the book so interesting is that not only are historical  and cultural revolutions covered, but the part that people had in important  events and their effects on real people are described. The importance of  individual people is greatly stressed in the book. This book shows that we  all have many connections with the past. The events of each century have  effected what happened in the following centuries, and in our lives today.  Jacques Barzun describes our current age as being decadent; but that sense  of decadence is really the end of one age and a new beginning for the  future. That new beginning can see another flowering of Western culture.  This book is the work of a lifetime, and I always had that awareness while  reading it. There is a vast richness in the depth and range of this book  that any review can only briefly describe. Reading this book is like  looking back through the footprints of time, and seeing many of the places  that we came from. Then there is also a vision of the path that may lay  before us in the future. I recommend this excellent book to everyone.	2000-05-24
US	49797633	R218HZ4ZH1NBJX	0375503714	873402511	The Special Prisoner: A Novel	Books	5	35	38	N	N	A haunting story of revenge and forgiveness	This is a novel about the best and worst of the human spirit; and some of the terrible legacies of war. The main character in the story is Bishop John Quincy Watson of the Methodist Church. In 1945 Watson was a B-29  bomber pilot, flying missions over Japan. On his seventeenth mission his  plane went down over Tokyo, and he was taken prisoner by the Japanese. The  Japanese authorities called downed American airmen &quot;Special  Prisoners&quot;, and reserved for them especially brutal treatment and  death. Bishop Watson survived the war, but his body and soul had been  permanently maimed in the Japanese prison. After the war Watson became a  minister. One day fifty years after the war had ended Watson was in the  Dallas Airport, and he saw the face of a man that he believed was one of  the main commanders of the prison camp in Japan. Every day of his life for  fifty years he had suffered pain and disability from his time as a prisoner  of war in Japan, and now the source of his pain was standing before him in  the airport. Watson began following the Japanese man, seeking a  confrontation with him. The chapters in the book begin switching back and  forth from the past to the present, describing events from the war and  Watson's confrontation with the Japanese commander. Much of the little  known history of American prisoners of war in Japan is given in the novel.  As a minister Bishop Watson believed in forgiveness; but could he find a  way to forgive a very real monster from his past? There are several moments  in the novel that will go straight to your heart. There is a rising sense  of tension as you keep reading; and a deep sense of wrenching truth about  the nature of forgiveness and the lasting horror of war. There is a very  haunting, moving quality to this novel that I will always remember. This is  a deeply felt novel that I highly recommend.	2000-05-16
US	49797633	R1GTJD9PLFK6RF	067084134X	855770597	Ravelstein	Books	5	3	8	N	N	A journey through life and death	Saul Bellow has a great talent for describing the daily details of life, and understanding some of the deeper meanings behind those details. Ravelstein is a novel about a close friendship; the kind of friendship that you might treasure and want to keep for all of your life. The two main  characters in the novel are Ravelstein and his friend Chick. Ravelstein is  a well known professor, and he knows that the time of his death is  approaching. He asks his friend to write a memoir about him. Chick is a  writer, and he agrees to write the memoir. Ravelstein believed that longing  was an essential necessity; a deep sense of longing for the best of love  and life. That sense of longing is often reflected in the novel. For Chick  that sense of longing was fulfilled through the beautiful love of his wife  Rosamund: another important character in the story. But what of Ravelstein?  Chick struggles to find the best way to write about Ravelstein. He writes  about moments that are sometimes compassionate, funny, eccentric, and  always memorable. He writes about the joy and sorrow that comes from a  close friendship, and the lasting effect that lives have upon each other.  He also writes about the ultimate moment of death that we all must finally  face. As I read about Ravelstein and Chick, I found myself being swept  along by their thoughts and the story of their lives. By the time that you  finish reading this novel, you will find that it was a journey worth  taking.	2000-05-09
US	49797633	R3S2SZBARLYJJY	0151003564	168158483	Make Gentle the Life of This World: The Vision of Robert F. Kennedy	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A book of remembered hopes and dreams	The assassination of Robert Kennedy was one of the greatest tragedies of modern history. For everyone that was alive in 1968, there is always the haunting question of what might have been. There was something about Robert  Kennedy that touched the soul of America. In the final years of his life he  had a genuine compassion and concern for others; and a vision of hope for  America. That compassion was always there when he reached out to touch  others; and they reached back to touch him. Robert Kennedy's vision is  exemplified in this book, which was compiled by his youngest son. The book  is divided into sections, with each section covering a different area and  quality of life. The book is filled with quotations and thoughts that  inspired Robert Kennedy, and helped to shape his mind and heart. There are  also some of the thoughts and speeches given by Robert Kennedy. Reading the  very moving quotations and inspiring thoughts contained in this book, I  felt that in the end the assassin's bullets did not prevail after all. The  best thoughts and ideals that Robert Kennedy represented are still with us  today. So many years have passed since 1968, but perhaps it is still  possible to tame the savageness of man and make gentle the life of this  world. This is a book of remembered hope from the past, and a deep wish for  a better world in the future.	2000-05-05
US	49797633	R2GRG7KYXT6THX	0553111337	243328997	Flags of Our Fathers	Books	5	41	43	N	N	A deeply moving story of courage and honor	The photograph of the raising of the American Flag on the island of Iwo Jima is one of the most famous pictures ever taken. Rarely in history has there been such an enduring symbol of valiant courage and honor. In  &quot;Flags Of Our Fathers&quot;, the true story of that transcendent  moment in time is brought to life. The life stories of the six men that  raised the flag on Iwo Jima are told; as well as the story of the ferocious  battle of Iwo Jima in February 1945. The story of the six men is told in a  very moving way, by describing much of what happened in their lives both  before and after Iwo Jima. After reading about the lives of these men, they  are no longer distant figures in a photograph from a far away time. They  are very real men that went through struggle and tragedy, and were all  brought together for that supreme moment on Iwo Jima. The author of the  book is the son of the last surviving member of the six. When his father  died in 1994, he wanted to understand and to tell his story; and the story  of all the men of Iwo Jima. Beyond the story of battle and courage, this is  also the story of the love between a father and his son. This is one of the  most inspiring books that you will ever read, and it is highly recommended.	2000-05-05
US	49797633	R1BSBG0DSFZ8HX	0151003564	168158483	Make Gentle the Life of This World: The Vision of Robert F. Kennedy	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A book of remembered hopes and dreams	The assassination of Robert Kennedy was one of the greatest tragedies of modern history. For everyone that was alive in 1968, there is always the haunting question of what might have been. There was something about Robert Kennedy that touched the soul of America. In the final years of his life he had a genuine compassion and concern for others; and a vision of hope for America. That compassion was always there when he reached out to touch others; and they reached back to touch him. Robert Kennedy's vision is exemplified in this book, which was compiled by his youngest son. The book is divided into sections, with each section covering a different area and quality of life. The book is filled with quotations and thoughts that inspired Robert Kennedy, and helped to shape his mind and heart. There are also some of the thoughts and speeches given by Robert Kennedy. Reading the very moving quotations and inspiring thoughts contained in this book, I felt that in the end the assassin's bullets did not prevail after all. The best thoughts and ideals that Robert Kennedy represented are still with us today. So many years have passed since 1968, but perhaps it is still possible to tame the savageness of man and make gentle the life of this world. This is a book of remembered hope from the past, and a deep wish for a better world in the future.	2000-05-03
US	49797633	RS2X2CN1KMIFA	0060193328	269737487	First They Killed My Father: A Daughter of Cambodia Remembers	Books	5	3	4	N	N	A deeply moving story of courage and survival	In the beginning pages of &quot;First They Killed My Father&quot;, the book is dedicated in memory of the two million people that were killed by the Khmer Rouge in Cambodia. The vastness of that number is hard to  understand and comprehend, but by writing her book Loung Ung helps us to  understand. By telling her story she speaks not only for herself; but for  all of those other voices that will never again be heard. The story that  she tells is especially heartbreaking, because it is a story of horror and  brutality seen through the eyes of a child. Loung Ung was only 5 years old  when the Khmer Rouge took control of Cambodia in 1975. Loung and her  family; along with hundreds of thousands of other families from the capital  city of Phnom Penh; were forced to leave their homes and to flee into the  countryside. They witnessed the deliberate destruction of an entire society  by the Khmer Rouge. Day to day life in Cambodia became a living nightmare.  I felt a very deep sense of grief and sadness reading about the death of so  many of the Cambodian people; and of the terrible suffering endured by  Loung and her family. But beyond those feelings of sadness, there is much  more within this book. There are many poignant moments in the book, that  reaffirm the ultimate value of every human life. As you read Loung's story,  every member of her family will be vividly brought to life before your  eyes. The love, sacrifice, courage and kindness of Loung's family helped to  give her the strength to survive. Loung's courageous heart has helped  others to live too. This is a book that was written from the heart, and it  is a story that you will always remember.	2000-04-22
US	49797633	R1YMNA4RQP00ZA	0375407545	949198499	Eating Well for Optimum Health: The Essential Guide to Food, Diet, and Nutrition	Books	5	254	259	N	N	A very good book about nutrition and health	I usually have to force myself to read nutritional type books, but I found  this book to be quite different. The approach taken by the author is a very  rational one, and it makes a lot of sense over the course of a lifetime.  There are no short term diet or health solutions presented, but rather the  focus is on healthy, enjoyable eating as a way of life. The author strongly  emphasizes that healthy eating does not need to be a miserable experience;  but that it can and should be pleasurable. A wealth of information about  food is provided in the book, including the best and worst diets in the  world. In several chapters the components of food and nutrition are broken  down and explained. There is a section of the book that contains 85  recipes, and another section that answers specific questions about food and  nutrition. Much of the information given is scientific in nature, but I  found all of the chapters to be very informative and interesting. I greatly  appreciated the sense of compassion and humor that Dr. Weil brings to his  book. This is a very well written book, and I recommend it to everyone.	2000-04-18
US	49797633	R3OPS1VWAPT0YM	0394708180	568274321	Herod and Mariamne (English and Swedish Edition)	Books	5	6	7	N	N	A story about the value of love	Par Lagerkvist wrote several short novels that have often been compared to parables. In 1951 he was awarded the Nobel Prize for literature. &quot;Herod and Mariamne&quot; is one of his short novels, and it is based  on the life of King Herod of Judea. Herod is best known for brutally  ordering the slaughter of male infants and children in Bethlehem during the  time of the birth of Jesus. There was another side to Herod that is not  well known: Herod was responsible for building the Second Temple in  Jerusalem. The temple, made mainly of white marble and gold, was one of the  most beautiful buildings in all of history. How could such beauty have come  from the brutal heart of Herod? The love of Herod's life was Mariamne. She  is described as being totally different than Herod. One day she came to the  palace, seeking mercy for a condemned prisoner. Herod listened to her plea  for compassion, and something about her touched his heart. He freed many  prisoners that were facing certain death. Mariamne came to the palace  several times, always asking mercy for others. After one visit, Herod asked  Mariamne to become his wife. She agreed to marry him, hoping that she might  change him and help everyone. But after a time, Herod began to fall back  into his old ways of suspicion and fear. He became suspicious of Mariamne.  He reached the point where he began to think about ordering Mariamne's  death. It was hard for Herod to understand that if he destroyed Mariamne;  he would also be destroying the best of himself. The beauty of the  magnificent temple would be as nothing; if he lost the love of Mariamne.  There is a sense of timeless truth to this story that was written many  years ago. It is a story that will echo in your heart.	2000-04-14
US	49797633	RET0GKI72B2LY	1575000628	628434	Rescuers -Portraits of Moral Courage in the Holocaust	Books	5	19	19	N	N	True stories of moral courage and goodness	On the front cover of &quot;Rescuers&quot; are 12 photographs of some very nice looking people. They are pictures of people that you might meet every day; of friends and family, or someone that you might pass by on the  street. They are the faces of very ordinary people, but they are also much  more than that. They are the faces of people that risked their lives to  save the lives of others during the Holocaust. They are the faces of the  rescuers. There are many more photographs inside the book, of rescuers from  countries all over Europe. Author Malka Drucker and photographer Gay Block  interviewed and photographed the rescuers, seeking the heart of compassion  and moral courage. They found that heart in men and women; the young and  the old; and in people from all walks of life.  Every story told by the  rescuers is very moving. Some rescuers saved one person from death; some  saved many thousands. All of the rescuers are worthy of the greatest  respect and honor. The rescuers were sometimes asked the question of why  they helped others to live, when so many other people stood by and did  nothing. The rescuers would answer that question by saying that they were  only doing what they knew was right. By caring for other people, they were  acting the way that everyone should have been acting. One of the most  inspiring truths found in the book, is the thought that we all have that  same spark of goodness within our hearts, that was shown so nobly by the  rescuers. We all have the capacity for doing what is right, even in times  of the greatest fear and terror. This is a book that will warm your heart,  and it is well worth reading.	2000-04-06
US	49797633	R1ZK5HENLVY0PU	0394710355	168192134	Into That Darkness: An Examination of Conscience	Books	5	13	13	N	N	A book of understanding about the Holocaust	I have often wondered how the Holocaust could have taken place. How could millions of people have been killed on such a huge scale? In her book, Gitta Sereny helps to find some of the answers to that question. In 1971,  she had the unique opportunity to interview Franz Stangl, one of the  commanders of the Nazi extermination camps in Poland. The interviews took  place over several weeks, and lasted 70 hours. The interviews form the  basis of the book, and a deeper understanding of Franz Stangl and the  Holocaust. From the book, we learn that evil does not appear all at once;  but that it grows over a period of time; like a journey into an ever  deepening darkness. In an almost step by step process, Franz Stangl was  drawn deeper and deeper into the darkness, until he could become the  commander of a place where 900,000 people were murdered. One of the most  terrifying realizations from the book, is the thought of how easy it can be  to descend into that darkness. It is something that could happen to so many  of us, as we keep going on with our lives; even though we are doing things  that we know in our hearts are wrong. By the end of the book, many  illusions about the Holocaust have been stripped away, and Franz Stangl  finally comes face to face with himself and his own personal  responsibility. The moments that are described then, are some of the most  haunting and memorable that I have ever read. The most important message  from the book, is that we must take responsibility for our own actions; and  for each other. This is one of the best books ever written about the  Holocaust, and it is highly recommended.	2000-03-29
US	49797633	R3U8FSAYYF55QL	0316348163	362184644	In the Shadow of the Moons: My Life in the Reverend Sun Myung Moon's Family	Books	5	42	50	N	N	A very deeply moving story of love and courage	From the beginning,Nansook Hong tells a story that can break your heart.She grew up believing in Reverend Moon,with the sweet innocent faith of a child.When she was only 15,Reverend Moon selected Nansook to be the wife of his eldest son.She writes that her faith began to be shattered,when she saw the true reality of life in Reverend Moon's family.Nansook began a very lonely journey of life,living with a brutal husband who did not love her;and a family that failed to live according to the high ideals of love that Reverend Moon has always preached to the world.Her only joy in life was her children,and a continuing faith in God through all adversity.  I have been a Unification Church member for many years,and reading Nansook's book has been a devastating experience for me.Through the spiritual pain that I now feel,I believe what Nansook has written.We must always face the truth,if we are ever going to have any kind of a really decent life.By writing her book,Nansook has given a gift of much needed truth to everyone.  Nansook's story is often sad and heartbreaking,but it is ultimately an inspiring story of deep love and personal courage in the face of great danger. From her book,we can learn the absolute necessity of always striving to have a responsible and a caring heart.This is a very vital,important book. I give it my highest recommendation.  END	1999-08-31
