US	49819884	R3J3VA2GXAJ3EK	0310205719	36906356	The Purpose Driven Life	Books	1	15	43	N	N	It really helps	...if you have a stash of crystal meth while reading it. It really helps getting over the existentialism.	2005-10-02
US	49819884	R1RJO7JZCU1H7A	0060853379	472114173	Silent Witness: The Untold Story of Terri Schiavo's Death	Books	1	35	66	N	N	Now, for something completely pedestrian...	JC General, your negative points about what Mr. Fuhrman didn't cover and your negative comments aren't appreciated. Instead, I will focus on Mr. Fuhrman's most shockingly brilliant observations: <br /> <br />1) When Sen. Dr. Mr. Bill Frist meant when he said that the  blind Terri Schiavo was \\"responding to visual stimuli\\" was that her \\"inner eye\\" or \\"third eye\\", as it were, was responding to the Great Tunnel of Light that we all we see when the Good Lord takes us up in His Heaven for our Great Reward. <br /> <br />2) Terri Schiavo, in fact, was not brain dead or even brain-damaged and proved it by writing President Bush's 2003 State of the Union Address. <br /> <br />3) OJ Simpson is still guilty.	2005-07-20
US	49819884	R31TC04OJKG4TQ	0679409947	377046405	The Trial (Everyman's Library Contemporary Classics Series)	Books	5	4	9	N	N	A book for our times	As nightmarish as this book must have seemed when it was first published over 80 years ago, this book has turned into a work of prophesy every bit as much as 1984 or ANIMAL FARM. When one looks at the almost darkly comical turn of events at Gitmo, Abu Ghraib and Bagram, in which detainees are arrested, held without legal counsel for years on end, tortured and in some cases killed, one sees the specter of Kafka darkly shaking his head at the strange and existentialist actions of our government.	2005-06-18
US	49819884	RNPC7DF922WDS	1551667177	784278929	At The Stroke Of Madness (Maggie O'Dell Novels)	Books	1	6	10	N	N	At the stroke of badness	Sharon Kava started out promisingly with A PERFECT EVIL then just got worse and worse as the series dragged on. Whether it's through a diminishing lack of native talent or the time constraints imposed by Mira (six months for every draft, is my understanding), ATSOM is a worthless piece of garbage that's about as tedius yet tragic as watching a brain tumor grow. <br />More nauseating than the embalmed corpse with the missing brain was Kava's feeble attempt to drum up awareness for her old pal Patricia Sierra's now out-of-print book, THE PRETTIEST FEATHERS by rather ineptly trying to insert it organically into the narrative. In the Mystery Science Theater 3000 (or MST'd) version of OVERDRAWN AT THE MEMORY BANK, Mike Nelson notes the playing of CASABLANCA in the movie and shrewdly says that an inferior movie should never have a better movie played in it. This is the literary equivalent: A marginally-gifted author should never make mention to a superior book. Making this even more irritating is that she mentions no fewer than six other authors, all her betters, in numerous further attempts to go shoulder-to-shoulder with thrillers that, unlike the last two or three O'Dell entries, are actually worth the money to buy.<br /><br />Don't waste your money on any more Kava books, especially if they have O'Dell's name on the cover, unless they reach their inevitable destination, which is the bargain bin at the book or drug stores at 3/4 off list price. Proof of its efficacy on the reading public is that this book, which has been out for over two months, has earned exactly two reviews. <br />	2003-10-11
US	49819884	REUSNPENY4H5Q	0451203593	897342569	24 Hours	Books	4	2	2	N	N	24 HOURS will kidnap you.	When I'm in a bookstore, one of the determining factors that often influence my choice as to whether or not to buy a certain book is to read the opening lines. If the book has a good enough \\"hook\\", then I'll take a chance on it, considering that the concept hasn't already grabbed me. Iles did a masterful job in setting up a cinematic prologue that details the safe return of a kidnapped child to his frantic mother. It's an anticlimax that works to the story's advantage. <BR><BR>Joe Hickey, his cousin Huey and a woman have perfected an ingenious system for kidnapping children of prominent Mississippi physicians and for not only eluding capture but to even make their existence unknown to the authorities. But when they kidnap Abby Jennings, the small daughter of Will and Karen Jennings, Joe Hickey and his accomplices have picked on the wrong family. <BR><BR>Impeccable research into the intimate details of families like the Jennings make their master plan foolproof and not knowing that Abby Jennings had juvenile diabetes strikes me as something that a criminal genius like Hickey would've known. When they spirit the child out of the house only to subsequently discover that she's been separated from her life-saving insulin, Hickey is forced to alter The Plan. <BR><BR>But the family's will and resourcefulness make the carefully laid plan spiral more and more off course until both sides are adlibbing in a deadly game of chess, with Abby being the most important piece. <BR><BR>The Jennings, however, are targeted for reasons other than money and Hickey's motive for revenge is rather generic and uninspired. What *is* inspired and unique is the thrilling climax that takes place in the interstate, a denouement that has cinema written all over it. <BR><BR>24 HOURS has pacing and suspense that's as smooth and sharp as a scalpel on flesh and the characterization is as topnotch as Dean Koontz's. The relationship between the ringleader Joe Hickey and his giant cousin Huey has a feel reminiscent of OF MICE AND MEN, a dynamic used by other authors such as Scott Smith and John Gilstrap but without as much skill. Iles, however, pulls it off and one of threads of tension that runs throughout the book is the question of which force has more control over the gentle giant, the one who's watching Abby- Hickey or Huey's own conscience. Cheryl, a cynical, hard-assed former stripper, comes across as a solid, living woman and the reader can't help but sympathize with her as well as Huey. <BR><BR>Iles is indeed a master storyteller at the top of his game and, if he isn't, it's only because he has yet to peak.	2003-06-06
US	49819884	RT46Z90V7G3MH	0671786865	778647694	Scott Free	Books	4	6	8	N	N	A double black diamond thriller	As his canon develops, Mr. Gilstrap's fiction seems to be edging away from the imperiled-family-on-the-run suspense thrillers for which he was becoming typecast and this is an evolution that Atria Books, Gilstrap's imprint within Simon & Schuster, thankfully encourages. <BR><BR>Scott O'Toole is not Nathan Bailey redux. Nathan, the title character in Gilstrap's incredible debut NATHAN'S RUN, is eluding capture by both the police and some bad men who want him dead. Sixteen-year-old Scott O'Toole is running toward something, namely a cabin in the middle of the Utah wilderness after his plane crashes that is his only shot at survival. <BR><BR>In that cabin is a mysterious man who claims to be in the witness protection program. But as Scott waits out a terrific blizzard, less and less adds up and his savior doesn't appear to be what he claims. The president of the United States is in town and when the bodies start piling up around the cabin like cordwood, Scott puts two and two together and begins a Nathanesque run back to civilization. <BR><BR>Gilstrap is obviously enamored of the movies, and he's tried and failed to make a career as a produced screenwriter. Still, his love of movies prevails and SCOTT FREE would've benefited from less allusions to specific movies, genres and cinema in general that Gilstrap obviously threw in to make producers realize, Look, see how cinematic my book is! <BR><BR>Gilstrap's saving grace is that SCOTT FREE, despite its shameless attempts to cozy up next to and identify with action/adventure films, remains one of the freshest and most captivating concepts since Jan Burke's BONES and Michael Prescott's NEXT VICTIM. Scott O'Toole does nothing that a gutsy, level-headed sixteen-year-old boy couldn't do with the proper training and a few aids. The conflict between his estranged parents is not a mass-produced he said-she said one and once again Gilstrap draws the reader into not only the violence of the story but the human conflicts that help illustrate and even bring about the more sensationalistic aspects. Scott's father is a devoted dad who'd be lost without the younger half of \\"Team Bachelor\\" while his mother, a self-help pop psychology icon and a bestselling author, is more concerned with ensuring that local bookstores stock her titles in abundance than with being a mother.<BR><BR>The writing of SCOTT FREE isn't quite as snappy as usual and very little of the humor that characterized Gilstrap's first three efforts are in evidence. The characterization, as stated before, is very good, a cut above what Gilstrap had offered in his next-to-last book, EVEN STEVEN. The mysterious man in the cabin is a creepy guy painted with light brush strokes of pathos, someone on a more human scale than the vicious Lyle Pointer of NATHAN'S RUN. <BR><BR>The thrilling, penultimate chapter that takes place on the ski slopes of Utah fades to black and fast-fowarding months later just before the reader actually sees what happened is a trick that directors have been doing since time immemorial and only reinforces the belief that Gilstrap is once again soliciting Hollywood's attention. His republican bias makes a rare, ugly appearance in the acknowledgements page in which he wishes that he could've researched classical music instead of the Metallica beloved of his title character (obviously Gilstrap hasn't heard of that heavy metal group's incredible work with the Trans-Siberian Orchestra). <BR><BR>Overall, I have to give SCOTT FREE four stars based on the vivid characterization, the ending that's almost as exciting as skiing a black diamond trail and the last-minute twist. Gilstrap still hasn't produced anything nearly as thrilling or heart-wrenching as his debut effort and it doesn't look as if he will. But his subsequent novels have a proven entertainment factor that's all too uncommon in the dull sea of generic books that come out every year. <br />	2003-04-29
US	49819884	R75KW0EX4MYQQ	0743456386	651363314	The White Road	Books	4	3	4	N	N	White road, black destination	The racial double entendre couldn't have been lost on John Connolly, surely one of the most talented new voices to come out in the last four years since fellow British scribe Boris Starling. And it is racial relations that the always-savvy and canny Connolly explores in this book that is reminiscent of Harper Lee's TO KILL A MOCKINGBIRD and Grisham's A TIME TO KILL.<BR>No one is perfect and writing great books takes craft as well as skill. However, I believe that John Connolly's almost invisible hubris will never allow him to write a bad novel and THE WHITE ROAD never gave me the impression that he had written it to keep the series going. We're treated to some welcome backstory regarding Angel and Louis, including how they met, and a story told by Louis to Charlie Parker in THE KILLING KIND becomes the basis for the beginning of the book. <BR>However, that's where Connolly's narrative falters. The burning alive of a black man in the 60's does not seem to have any bearing on the main story, which is about a young African-American man charged with the murder of a wealthy white girl. Another thing that does not fit is the paranormal child prostitute who appears a few times and disappears into a car. <BR>But these seeming anomalies notwithstanding, Connolly gives us another Parker mystery that for once doesn't give us a fascinating and ingeniously flawed serial killer like Mr. Pudd, the Traveling Man or Caleb Kyle. Hunchbacked Cyrus Nairn could've proved to be a much more fascinating character than Connolly actually made him but he's creepy enough and the Rev. Faulkner makes an all-too sparing but welcome return. <BR>Reminiscent of THE CHAMBER and Troy Soos's HANGING CURVE, Connolly embroils his detective in a battle of wits with the KKK and the usual assortment of physically deformed henchmen. His humor is as biting as ever (his brief but bullseye take on Fred Durst is priceless and is alone worth the cost of the hard cover). <BR>The plot anomalies are easily overcomeby the usual vivid characterization, dialogue and attention to detail in all things that sets Connolly head and shoulders above all but two or three of his peers in the mystery genre.	2003-04-11
US	49819884	R3F5RBKIMTD6EH	0345434498	323396054	Hostage: A Novel	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Why did Bruce Willis buy the film rights?	Which is a very legitimate question, since several better hostage negotiation novels have been written in recent years. Such stories are very tricky to write (I know- I've been embroiled in writing one for over four years now) and this is perhaps the reason why fans of this subgenre inevitably have to settle for a trade off- Either they can read a thrilling novel that's badly researched (Deaver's A MAIDEN'S GRAVE) or a serviceable novel that's well-grounded in research. Robert Crais's HOSTAGE falls in the latter category. <BR><br />Early on, we meet Jeff Tally, a former LAPD SWAT negotiator who, naturally, was knocked almost completely out of the life after a hostage standoff went bad. Tally is chief of a small police department on the California coastline in a sleepy town where a car backfiring is assumed to be a car backfiring. Then three youths rob a convenience store in which the owner is accidentally killed (shades of Sandra Brown's horrendous STANDOFF). All but one panics and flee, eventually settling in the house of a father of two children who turns out to be an accountant of a mob family. This is an intriguing setup but somehow Crais doesn't fully pull the trigger. <BR><br />The group dynamic in the household is interesting (Crais rightly doesn't allow for Stockholming, since Mr. Smith is seriously beaten early in the standoff), as is the response by the mob bosses who want to retrieve from Smith's house incriminating evidence that could put away virtually all of organized crime on the east coast. <BR><br />To Crais's credit, he makes the situation even more unstable. One of the three gunmen, Mars Krupcek, is obviously not what he appears to be. The creation of Mars is a welcome one and his eerie calmness in the face of these desperate circumstances is far creepier than the frantic, frenetic brothers who are his accomplices. One can almost hear Crais piling on the building blocks as he constructed this pretentious novel with one stock motivation and plot device after another (a cache is found and this is the motivation that Dennis Rooney, the ringleader, supposedly needs to escape the barricade outside). <BR><br />Overall, however, the ending was unimaginative and predictable and a fairly sharp reader will be able to tell who the crooked cop behind the barricade is dozens of pages before Crais tells us who it is. His language isn't memorable, the characterization merely adequate (Mars notwithstanding) and I'd give this book only one more star than Sandra Brown's STANDOFF, quite possibly the most inept and boring hostage negotiation melodrama ever penned. <BR><br />Frankly, I think Mr. Willis's money would've been better spent optioning or buying outright the film property of THE STANDOFF, Chuck Hogan's fictionalized account of the Ruby Ridge fiasco. <br />	2003-04-09
US	49819884	R3MHBMRR54OQXB	0345434498	323396054	Hostage: A Novel	Books	3	2	4	N	N	Why did Bruce Willis buy the film rights?	Which is a very legitimate question, since several better hostage negotiation novels have been written in recent years. Such stories are very tricky to write (I know- I've been embroiled in writing one for over four years now) and this is perhaps the reason why fans of this subgenre inevitably have to settle for a trade off- Either they can read a thrilling novel that's badly researched (Deaver's A MAIDEN'S GRAVE) or a serviceable novel that's well-grounded in research. Robert Crais's HOSTAGE falls in the latter category. <BR><br />We meet Jeff Tally early in the book, the former LAPD SWAT negotiator who, of course, was knocked almost completely out of the life after a hostage standoff went bad. Tally is chief of a small police department on the California coastline in a sleepy town where a car backfiring is assumed to be a car backfiring. Then three youths rob a convenience store in which the owner is accidentally killed (shades of Sandra Brown's horrendous STANDOFF). Two of them panic and drive away, eventually settling in the house of a father of two children who turns out to be an accountant of a mob family. This is an intriguing setup but somehow Crais doesn't fully pull the trigger. <BR><br />The group dynamic in the household is interesting (Crais rightly doesn't allow for Stockholming, since Mr. Smith is seriously beaten early in the standoff), as is the response by the mob bosses who want to retrieve at all costs two Zip disks in Smith's house, evidence that, according to Crais, could put away virtually all of organized crime on the east coast. <BR><br />This is where it gets unrealistic. Somehow, the mob is able to infiltrate the staging area that has since been taken over by the Sheriff's department by kidnapping Tally's estranged wife and daughter and sending over fake FBI SWAT agents to enter the house, although even a local cop would know that the barricade situation isn't a federal matter. <BR><br />But, to Crais's credit, he makes the situation evenmore unstable by introducing a wildcard into the mix by telling us that one of the three gunmen, Mars Krupcek, is a serial killer. The creation of Mars is a welcome one and his eerie calmness in the face of these desperate circumstances is far creepier than the frantic, frenetic brothers who are his accomplices. One can almost hear Crais piling on the building blocks as he constructed this pretentious novel with one stock motivation and plot device after another (a cache of over two million dollars is found and this is the motivation that Dennis Rooney, the ringleader, supposedly needs to escape the barricade outside). <BR><br />Overall, however, the ending was unimaginative and predictable and a fairly sharp reader will be able to tell who the crooked cop behind the barricade is dozens of pages before Crais tells us who it is. His language isn't memorable, the characterization merely adequate (Mars notwithstanding) and I'd give this book only one more star than Sandra Brown's STANDOFF, quite possibly the most inept and boring hostage negotiation melodrama ever penned. <BR><br />Frankly, I think Mr. Willis's money would've been better spent optioning or buying outright the film property of THE STANDOFF, Chuck Hogan's fictionalized account of the Ruby Ridge fiasco. <br />	2003-04-07
US	49819884	R1U556L7W28G13	0446602620	435728437	Blood Work	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Do you have the heart for this book?	Based on THE POET, the only other Connelly novel I'd ever read, I never would've given any of his other books a chance were this not a vehicle starring Clint Eastwood. The premise, I had to admit, was intriguing and original. I enjoyed the movie and decided to give the novel a try. <BR><br />First of all, whether or not you decide to try the movie or the book first, don't let the ending of either deter you from trying the other medium. Let's just say that the screenwriter for the Eastwood production took some liberties. Either way, I believe your patience will be rewarded. <BR><br />Secondly, while BLOOD WORK has Hollywood written all over it, the premise can't help but engage the reader on a variety of levels and for different reasons. Mystery mavens will buy the book simply because the book has Michael Connelly's name on the cover. Those in the medical or law enforcement fields may want to try this book to see how thoroughly Connelly had researched his subjects. But the language, which isn't as memorable as, John Connolly's, Stephen Hunter's or John Gilstrap's, leaves something to be desired. I enjoy reading novelists who have a good sense of humor and can snap off a sharp metaphor or simile at any time. Unfortunately, Connelly doesn't have the poetic aptitude of his title character in THE POET (to which he refers several times without, thankfully, giving away the ending). <BR><br />However, Connelly gives us a very likable and sympathetic hero in Terry McCaleb, the heart transplant recipient cum unofficial investigator. It's to his credit that Connelly didn't constantly put McCaleb and his new heart in peril every hundred pages or so as Marvel did with the old Tony Stark/Iron Man character in the 60's. And, while Terry's precarious medical condition didn't allow him to even drive, it's notable that Connelly was still able to make McCaleb interesting without many action opportunities. <BR><br />The identity of the killer in the book and the denouement was anticlimactic, at best. No chapters are told in his POV, we didn't get the chance to meet him until the very end and that robbed the reader of the catharsis that Aristotle promises us. The screenplay's solution was more ingenious. <BR><br />All the same, I've bought and am currently reading the followup, A DARKNESS MORE THAN NIGHT, which is a crossover that's sure to make ecstatic fans of McCaleb and Connelly's main series character, Harry Bosch. <br />	2003-03-19
US	49819884	R2P2CDNG208YQS	0743221990	736731828	The Stone Monkey: A Lincoln Rhyme Novel (Lincoln Rhyme Novels)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Jeffs rocks the boat but not my world	I find it hard to suspend my disbelief when the INS would go to an outside, civilian source to capture a smuggler and finding ways to get Rhyme involved in case after case while he has no official standing must be one of the hardest things that Deaver has to do, given Rhyme's lack of mobility and official standing. <BR><BR>That said, THE STONE MONKEY, the fourth in the Rhyme/Sachs series, gives us an interesting glimpse into the labyrinthine world of Chinese society. A snake head (or human smuggler) known as The Ghost, has deliberately scuttled a ship containing dozens of Chinese emigrants before reaching New York's shores. Two families escape and The Ghost methodically begins tracking down the last survivors who can link him with the disastrous voyage.<BR><BR>The book begins with Lincoln Rhyme monitoring the Coast Guard's progress at intercepting the ship while members of the FBI, INS and NYPD are comfortably sitting with him in his townhouse. The shooting begins and Rhyme immediately dispatches Sachs to look at the crime scene, even though her involvement is sanctioned through the NYPD through official channels, it's done so through abnormal procedures.<BR><BR>Over the course of the book, we find out that some of the ship's inhabitants aren't who or what they seem and The Ghost's alter ego was a genuine surprise for me. As the bodies pile up, Rhyme sends Sachs in her muscle car all over New York and Chinese cop Sonny Li (a wonderfully quirky character) to collect evidence in order to divine The Ghost's whereabouts. As always, microscopic grit left in his footprints virtually leads the investigators right to the snake head's front door.<BR><BR>For me, the best part of the book was when the claustrophobic Sachs is given the daunting task of processing a crime scene submerged in icy cold water, the sunken Fouzhou Dragon, in which she, incredibly, finds a survivor. What she discovers there is somewhat reminiscent of the scene in which investigators are exploring the wreck of the barge in Boris Starling's STORM.<BR><BR>The scene at the airport, in which the captured Ghost is about to be extradited back to China, was a bit too much like the classic whodunits of the Christie era, in which the suspects are gathered together to hear the detective pontificate about the evidence and to whom it leads. <BR><BR>About the only real departure for Deaver in this so-so book is the fact that there's no accomplice to endanger our heroes in the penultimate chapter, even though there's the inevitable red herring. The operation that was a central theme in THE EMPTY CHAIR is mentioned time and again, which gives some added human dimension and poignance to Rhyme's and Sach's relationship without providing distraction. <BR><BR>Overall, I'm giving this book three stars because I don't think it's up to snuff with Deaver's better efforts such as THE BONE COLLECTOR and A MAIDEN'S GRAVE. Still, it was good to see the supporting characters back in full force, stalwarts like Dellray, Selitto, Bedding &amp; Saul, etc. I'm hoping that THE VANISHED MAN, which came out yesterday, will give the reader some genuine twists, in memorable language, without straining credulity.	2003-03-12
US	49819884	RS817IR4SM6G5	045120753X	961062620	Next Victim	Books	4	43	50	N	N	Next!	Sometimes, in the course of reading the work of a talented author who thinks up good concepts, knows the mechanics of good storytelling, writes interesting dialogue, and creates compelling characters, one has to wonder how much creative control they actually have and how much better they could've made their book if left to their own expert devices instead of being comprised by editorial micro-managing. I got an inkling of how Alex Kava's light was obscured by the editorial bushel while reading SPLIT SECOND and I couldn't help but speculate on the same thing while reading Michael Prescott's latest thriller (he'd wanted to name it WIPEOUT but the publisher choose the breathtakingly bland NEXT VICTIM). <br /><BR>A woman on the run from the FBI is carrying a canister of VX nerve agent and is intercepted by a serial killer, who then absconds with it and plans to use it on an unsuspecting Los Angeles. This is the best concept in recent fiction since Jan Burke's BONES (2001). <br /><BR>Not all the book's flaws can be blamed on editing, however- as one reviewer rightly posits, Mobius suffers from the talking villain syndrome, whereas the pieces could've come together in a more organic way, through skillful exposition or having Special Agent Tess McCallum, the book's heroine, tell the reader in her POV. Also, in the ATSAC HQ, Tess is actually relieved when it turns out that Mobius has VX in his possession, instead of the ebola that Tess had feared. I don't know of a single human who would ever be relieved to be dealing with VX, surely the deadliest substance ever engineered by Man. <br /> <BR>But NEXT VICTIM'S virtues far outweigh its flaws and the characterization of the principals is good enough to garner sympathy for both antagonist and protagonist. and, while it's obligatory for the heroine to engage the villain in the Endgame in which the heroine (of course) wins, Prescott thankfully was able to break away from his usual DIE HARD-esque ending that involves a tall, abandoned/unfinished building to give the reader a more novel denouement. <br /> <BR>As usual, I'll be on the lookout for the talented Prescott's next outing, hoping for both a hardcover deal for him and less editorial interference. <br />	2003-01-29
US	49819884	R2TTQDOHHSAN5U	0515134279	176741903	Straw Men	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Practice random acts of violence.	The Straw Men by Mike Marshall <br /><br /><br />Two men walk into a McDonald's in Pennsylvania and kill dozens of people with automatic weapons. A youth walks into a school and kills over a dozen classmates and faculty with a similar weapon. A man in England goes berserk and kills dozens. Sound like your typical latter-day headlines? They are but they're incidents in Mike Marshall's timely debut novel, The Straw Men, a story about an international cabal of mass murderers led by a serial killer self-named The Upright Man. <br /><BR>This premise was used to lesser effect in the Sylvester Stallone thriller COBRA and is therefore not a new one. However, an intriguing storyline adds heft and some coherency to this novel, one in which two widely divergent storylines are finally united in the thrilling climax. <br /><BR>Former CIA analyst and professional slacker Ward Hopkins returns to his hometown in Dyersburg, Montana after the abrupt and violent death of his parents. Ward finds a note in his father's chair containing the short but cryptic message: \\"We're not dead.\\" Upon further discovering a videotape made by his father, he begins to investigate his parents' deaths and immediately comes up against stiff resistance from a shadowy faction that is concentrated in the ultra-exclusive housing development known only as The Halls.<br /><BR>Meanwhile, former LAPD homicide detective John Zandt is called out of retirement by FBI agent Nina Baynam, with whom he'd had an affair after Zandt's own daughter was abducted and presumably murdered by the Upright Man. Another girl, Sarah Becker, has been snatched from a mall in California and all the clues point to the fact that the Upright Man is back in action. <br /><BR>Marshall, in my opinion, took too long in finally intertwining these two different storylines, in which Zandt and the underachieving Hopkins, aided by Ward's close friend, CIA operative Bobby, attempt to take down the man or men responsible. Marshall's characterizationis vivid and his dark humor is only slightly less sharp than that of a John Connolly. The Upright Man, a keen student of paleontology, hence the moniker, is until the end someone only seen in glimpses through the eyes of his latest abduction, the fourteen-year-old Sarah Becker, whom he keeps hidden and trapped under his floorboards, one of which created entirely out of matchsticks struck by other people and varnished until it matched the real ones. Such patience and deliberation, in artificially crafting something more easily made through mass production, is one of the most chilling facets I've ever read of a serial killer's psyche. <br /><BR>This book cries out for a sequel and those who have read it will see why. It is an intriguing study in duality, with the timely message that perhaps the random acts of violence that make the headlines virtually every day are perhaps not so random, after all. <br />	2002-12-19
US	49819884	R3QCFBVKLZYRZG	0425147622	950957632	The Body Farm	Books	1	7	12	N	N	Worst mystery... EVER.	Patricia Cornwell's Kay Scarpetta ought not be dismissed lightly. She ought to be escorted out by security, strip-searched and scrutinized while cleaning out her desk then be served with a restraining order, to be followed up with a visit from a contract killer. <br /><br />THE BODY FARM was my first and final Kay Scarpetta mystery. I was intrigued by the lure of the title, which is the unofficial name for an actual forensic laboratory in Tennessee. Instead of the gripping introduction to what is perhaps one of the three most famous mystery series extant, I came across one red herring after another. <br /><br />The Body Farm itself takes up less than an entire chapter of this book in which Cornwell was clearly coasting. Instead of merely suckering the reader into thinking that this fascinating laboratory actually takes center stage in this stillborn effort, Cornwell should've done just this. How difficult would it have been to incorporate the Body Farm and Lyall Shade into a few more chapters? <br /><br />Another red herring is Temple Gault, which Cornwell drew in for his apparent drawing power from earlier installments in the series. But this, too, turns out to be a dead end and the reader is treated instead to a brief improbable glimpse of Temple Gault at a mall featuring The Simpson's Comic Book Guy, which turns out to be another red herring. <br /><br />The murder of Emily Steiner promises a rousing, intriguing mystery that unfortunately gets lost in a welter of confusing subplots, such as Scarpetta's inexplicable affair with a married FBI agent with children, Marino's even more inexplicable desire to become Sheriff Andy Taylor in a small North Carolina town, which requires him to abandon his duties to his actual superiors with impunity, who also turn a misty, blind eye to Marino getting emotionally involved with a principle in a homicide investigation. How about Kay's niece Lucy's improbable setup at ERF and her complete reinstatement after her aunt proves herinnocence with the help of a US Senator, which also has nothing much to do with the main plot?<br /><br />Scarpetta would raise my hackles even if she was not the ventriloquist dummy for Cornwell's obviously republican bias. A character who's a doctor AND a lawyer would be hard enough to pull off, especially if the author was neither (as Cornwell, for instance), but Dr. Scarpetta's character has the personality of an H & R Block sign on a dimly lit street. She is like one of those animatronic figures at Disney World that one wishes would run amuck a la WESTWORLD to relieve itself and its spectator of the sense of dreariness that she drags after her like a bad body odor. <br /><br />Cornwell is not as talented as, say, John Gilstrap in disguising a troubling conservative bias that would do Strom Thurmond proud and she shows this in her uncannily incorrect depiction of southerners and lesbians. I hated, Hated, HATED this book and Cornwell to the point where I'm taking it personally. <br />	2002-09-23
US	49819884	R2XK68RLM0HQQU	0451205073	945073520	Last Breath	Books	3	2	8	N	N	New story, same ending...	Jeffery Deaver is pretty much in the top tier of male commercial authors who write imperiled women suspense novels. I'm thinking, of course, of the Rune series, SPEAKING IN TONGUES, A MAIDEN'S GRAVE, PRAYING FOR SLEEP, etc. Michael Prescott, who specializes in this motif and always had in his previous incarnation, is in the second tier and may be working his way up. <br /><BR>Anyone who remembers MORTAL PURSUIT will see similarities between Trish Robinson and C.J. Osborn. Both are imperiled female officers who share a frightening childhood incident- Both were stalked and almost killed by a \\"boogeyman.\\" <br /><BR>The opening chapter was exceptionally done, I thought, one that cannot help but nudge memories that we've all had as children, of monsters under our bed and closets, faces at the top of the stairs, and assorted creaks and bumps in the night. However, CJ's encounter with the boogeyman is a real one and the disturbing phenomenon of child home abductions and subsequent homicides constantly in the news these days, one that seems to take place in FINAL BREATH's venue, gives the book perhaps an unintentional added emotional impact just as Shirley Kennett's FIRECRACKER related to schoolyard violence. <br /><BR>Fast forward sixteen years later. CJ Osborn is a gutsy, capable LAPD officer who's nonetheless shadowed by her childhood demon both literally and psychologically. Unlike Alex Kava's Maggie O'Dell, who in SPLIT SECOND is paranoid and hypervigilant to the point of hysteria, CJ's character is sensitively drawn and only watches out for her boogeyman out of the corner of her eye. <br /><BR>Of course, with a Deaver-esque twist, CJ is pursued by not one maniac but two. The final confrontation with the first one is quite reminiscent of the DIE HARD-like venue of Prescott's last novel, THE SHADOW HUNTER (in fact, Prescott even admitted to me that he was thinking of that movie as he wrote that scene in TSH) and the eponymous denouement involving the real boogeyman of CJ's past was generic and uninspired at best, calling to mind countless other endgame scenes featured in WATCH ME, CATCH ME, SPLIT SECOND, Prescott's own STEALING FACES (IMO, still the best book he's produced), THE SHADOW HUNTER, etc. <br /><BR>The language didn't seem as inspired as in Prescott's earlier efforts, the storyline didn't seem particularly original and I hope that Prescott's next venture, NEXT VICTIM, will prove to be more exciting and provocative than its bland title. <br />	2002-09-17
US	49819884	R3SM80K97DKK6Z	0743455967	44310359	On Writing	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Dark Side of the Womb	To the casual reader, it would appear as if Stephen King had produced the lazy, indulgent book about his experiences as a writer that one would eventually expect from an author of his celebrity. However, the more alert purveyor of ON WRITING will realize that Mr. King is, not very arguably, the most celebrated and commercially successful author of the last 30 years, one who certainly knows the value of backstory, foreshadowing, characterization and plot, and that, if he's giving way to indulgences, there's an ulterior motive that eventually pays in practical dividends. <br /><BR>This book starts off with King's earliest memories, which begin when his and his brother Dave's father had just abandoned the family and his mother had to struggle through one move and menial job after another to support her two troublesome boys. Reading of King's misfortunes with cribbing a Poe story and passing it off as his own (the fact that Poe's work was obviously already in the public domain notwithstanding and irrelevant), writing for a homemade newspaper masterminded by his restless brother Dave and creating a satirical version of the high school paper makes one marvel at how writers of all levels of success have common experiences. While in junior high, I had excoriated the student body and faculty alike with a multi-page document that almost gotten me mauled by a frighteningly large gym teacher who was one of the subjects of my alleged wit but who was not frightening enough to quench my instinct for satire (King assures us that he was cured of the Petronius Arbiter Bug). Anyone who's ever wanted to hack into their job's mainframe and sabotage the company's online newsletter will understand exactly where King is coming from. When admitting that people tell every creative being, including himself, that they're wasting their talent, King is immediately sharing a bond among the community of not just writers but all artists in general. On the flip side, King is also careful to tell usof the pearls of practical and seminal wisdom that he had likewise learned from his elders, including his supportive, if sometimes bewildered, mother.<br /><BR>The book continues with Uncle Fazza's handmade toolbox, which King uses as a metaphor or synecdoche for the tools of the writer. King advises, as did his uncle who'd dragged the heavy wooden toolbox outside only to use a screwdriver to fix a screen, that it's a good habit to get into because you never know when you'll need other tools. His other advice, such as attacking the white page aggressively and with feeling, even desperation, is not as innovative as the reader would hope but there are countless other nuggets of wisdom for which workshop students would pay hundreds of dollars with perhaps half the wisdom. King even gives the reader and aspiring writer an intriguing writing exercise and invites them to tell him the results on [...] In this section, King also gives us an indication of how he can turn a mildly interesting headline into an interesting storyline into then a great storyline with a simple twist of perception or a reversal of the facts.<br /><BR>At the end of the book, King lets us look over his shoulder while he's in his \\"closed door\\", or first draft, phase. First, he presents a rough draft of a short story followed by a holograph of the revised copy, handwritten interlineations and all, giving us a keyhole glimpse into the workings of his creative mind, something for which most other authors have too much hubris. King, however, gives the reader the impression that his self-deprecation and lack of artistic seriousness and high mindedness is sincere and he lets us see him first thing in the morning, unshaven, hair mussed, still wearing his droopy socks and wrinkled underwear. <br /><BR>ON WRITING is not to be mistaken for an autobiography or as a textbook on the craft of writing. It is both and neither. King did a masterful job in inextricably entwining and perfectly balancing the relationshipbetween life and writing that makes this book, in some ways moreso than his earlier DANSE MACABRE, an invaluable document for both the novice and seasoned pro alike. It is a short, inspiring and humorous literary autobiography that generously allows us to see what the NEW YORK TIMES BOOK REVIEW and King's publicity agent does not, the failings, foulups, and foibles of who is perhaps the most lionized author of modern times. <br />	2002-09-17
US	49819884	R1YD0UIVG97LU5	0684863618	682610760	Pale Horse Coming	Books	3	0	2	N	N	Ugly old men with guns	For a book that takes place in Mississippi, Stephen Hunter's PALE HORSE COMING reads remarkably like a Larry McMurty western or plays like a Magnificent Seven movie.<br />This motif, of assembling a group of misfit specialists in a bloody campaign against an evil greater than any one of them, can work very well if treated well and Hunter generally manages to make this second Earl Swagger book entertaining if hardly ever plausible. <br />Hunter, a movie critic with the WASHINGTON POST, couldn't have not been thinking of COOL HAND LUKE while writing this typical shoot 'em up. Big Boy, for instance, must've had some inspiration from the silent sunglassed enforcer in that 60's classic. <br />Hunter seems to have taken a bunch of manly literary conceits and put them together to evoke some emotional, visceral response from the men for whom this book was obviously written, i.e. prisoner breaks out of prison and comes back to destroy prison (RAMBO II), assembling a bunch of specialists in the violent arts (old movie buffs will greatly enjoy his depiction of what is obviously Audie Murphy) who help the hero dismantle the prison (THE SEVEN SAMURAI, THE MAGNIFICENT SEVEN, THE MAGNIFICENT SEVEN RIDE!, THE DIRTY DOZEN, etc.).<br />Still, the gunplay is addictive to read, the evil plausibly real (anyone recall Joseph Mengele, the Nazi angel of death, and his Japanese counterparts?), and the heroes righteous enough to make this a damned good summer read. The old man's death from natural causes after blowing away almost a half dozen guys with cobra-like speed just moments earlier was a bit melodramatic but that's a small price to pay for enjoying this not-too-bad Swagger novel. Let's hope that this isn't the end of the line for the Swagger family.	2002-09-08
US	49819884	R15BW2XCP161X4	1551668351	659497798	Split Second (Maggie O'Dell Novels)	Books	3	5	6	N	N	O'Dell no Starling	To be fair to the author, Mira had given Sharon \\"Alex\\" Kava only six months to produce this followup to A PERFECT EVIL. This, unfortunately, is typical of the publishing industry and its \\"Strike while the iron is hot\\" mindset.<br />It's as obvious in SPLIT SECOND as it was in APE that Kava takes many of her cues from Thomas Harris and his now-legendary Hannibal Lecter series. Harris obviously benefited enormously from being able to take over a decade in writing HANNIBAL, while Kava's editor gave her only one twentieth the time. In fact, Kava had once told me that the first seventeen chapters were written in the first month alone.<br />Still, the so-called central theme of crossing the line separating good and evil in a \\"split second\\" isn't addressed at any appreciable length until the last 60 or so pages of the book. It's a theme that Kava could've explored in a more provocative way even given the brevity of her publishing window. <br />This is a fast read, with smooth pacing, and the return of Nick Morelli, perhaps the most incompetent sheriff in the annals of fiction, is nonetheless a comforting presence. However, many of the male characters, of which there are plenty, are cookie cutter constructs and I find it hard to believe that O'Dell would even still have a badge and a gun given her shrill, strident and paranoid nature throughout the book. AD Cunningham comes across as a washed-out version of Harris's Jack Crawford and Albert Stuckey, too, is a similarly generic serial killer, something that a hack would've created after reading a Writer's Digest book entitled HOW TO CREATE A SERIAL KILLER.<br />The conceit of a killer choosing victims in close proximity to the protagonist is a well-worn theme that has been better employed elsewhere. The denouement, also, is reminiscent of countless other serial killer thrillers in which the heroine has the final confrontation with the bad guy (WATCH ME, CATCH ME, LAST BREATH, SILENCE OF THE LAMBS, etc.).<br />However, Kava seems to have finally done some research in order to make Maggie O'Dell a more believable profiler. However, the author's Catholic sensibilities are reflected in O'Dell and what could have been a rousing love scene (virtually an obligatory ingredient in a Mira book) degenerates into a sloppy handjob because O'Dell is still technically married to her estranged husband Greg.<br />As in the end of APE, Kava sets the stage for the next sequel by occasionally mentioning the Rev. Everett and alluding to Father Keller. I can't help but feel, however, that if Kava were allowed the time, she could create a real winner out of the first meeting between Maggie O'Dell and Albert Stucky that culminated in that Miami warehouse. With the proper treatment, she could make a viable sequel out of that backstory.<br />I'll wait until O'Dell's next adventure comes out in paperback next August or buy a used hard cover on [local store]. If Mira cannot give Kava the time to write a better book, then I cannot spend over [price] buying those books.	2002-08-10
US	49819884	RCY21YL66O46C	067102731X	705687442	Every Dead Thing: A Charlie Parker Thriller	Books	4	1	2	N	N	A gory but wonderful debut	As other reviewers have noted, it's continually surprising to realize that the author of one of the most American and most accomplished crime thrillers in recent years is actually an Irish journalist. John Connolly only rarely shows his Irish, lyrical side in passages such as this, on page two: \\"There is a light breeze blowing and my coattails play at my legs like the hands of children.\\" <br /><BR>And so begins a descent into an unforgettable tale of madness. Connolly expertly engages the reader from the first page by interspersing two POVs of his main character, Charlie \\"Bird\\" Parker, the present tense, the italicized past tense of the night Parker found the horribly mutilated corpses of his wife and children, and the third impersonal voice of the police report. At first, the reader may suspect that the present tense POV is that of the killer and perhaps Connolly may have counted on this to further shrink the gap between the evil mind and its analogue.<br /><br />The Traveling Man is one of the more intriguing serial killers in latter day fiction, one drawn with the skill of an established master of the genre. The identity of the killer is a true surprise, not a mean feat considering today's sophisticated reader, although the clues are placed throughout the book with the judiciousness of an M. Night Shyamalan. <br /><br />It should be noted that the murder scenes should not be read by those with weak stomachs and there aren't too many books that come to memory requiring such an advisory. But just when the jaded reader thinks that every atrocity has already been committed by real life killers or imagined by novelists, John Connolly has come from Ireland with a unique perspective on the genre. Perhaps Connolly's outsider mentality is what separates EVERY DEAD THING from many of the serial killer books being penned by lesser-talented American authors. <br /><br />It made me groan to see that Connolly, as with his literary grandfathers Hammett and Chandler, continuallyputs his protagonist in situations until I half expected Parker to find another mangled corpse on his way to the bathroom. The body count and bewildering array of killers (Oh no, the Traveling Man isn't the only one) may turn off readers with milder sensibilities and not as easily-suspended disbeliefs. <br /><br />The two main plots remained separated for too long, which risks inspiring boredom and impatience in the reader. There are also far too many male characters in the book, especially the cops, and despite the book's length, Connolly didn't take enough care with their delineation to make them very distinctive to the reader. Angel and Louis, the gay hit men, are certainly a breath of fresh air and are treated with the dignity they deserve. <br /><br />Connolly's Parker cracks wise with the best of them and the jokes tend to be better and funnier than Robert Parker's Spenser. \\"Bird\\" Parker is a reluctant PI in the mold of Easy Rawlins or Troy Soos's Mickey Rawlings but he is a much better delineated character than either and still better than most in the too-vast detective universe. Parker is an unimaginably tortured man, one who has no problem going over the line and taking a life with the tenuous ability go back to the side of compassion. With clipped and bloodied wings, he is an earthbound enforcer for St. Jude. <br /><br />I hope that the next two books will be more judiciously edited. Only Connolly's ferocious wit and sheer mastery of plot advancement kept this book from being a midlist beach thriller. This highly intelligent and erudite novel, with its unusually poetic cops and FBI agents, is some of the best entertainment you can buy for [amt]. I fully intend on following the series. <br />	2002-08-10
US	49819884	R3IZDECOGR99R8	1575667673	584314278	Island Of Tears	Books	3	7	9	N	N	A passable series debut	ISLAND OF TEARS, by Mickey Rawlings's creator Troy Soos, introduces a promising newcomer to the detective genre; Marshall Webb. If you're looking for a period mystery as substantial as THE ALIENIST, THE ANGEL OF DARKNESS, any of Anne Perry's novels, or even Stephen Saylor's A TWIST AT THE END and the Roma Sub Rosa series, then you're bound to be disappointed. Soos's book is charitably weighed in at 280 pages (at least 40 of which are blanks between chapters) and he obviously doesn't luxuriate in the period as Carr or Saylor do (which is unusual for a historian-turned-novelist such as the two abovementioned). This is a meat-and-potatoes mystery and is typical for the genre in length, denouement, characterization, and execution.<br />Marshall Webb is likable enough as a hero but he almost completely lacks the sense of humor that makes Mickey Rawlings such a favorite of Soos's earlier fans. Webb depresses me, frankly. One of the biggest reasons why it's so hard to connect with Webb is because ISLAND OF TEARS isn't told with the usual first person narrative that is so typical of the mystery genre. The reader is told about Webb's impressions instead of being able to read his mind as we've rightly come to expect. Mickey Rawlings, who *does* benefit from first person narrative, is better able to entertain us with his baseball play, his knowledge of the game, and with his unconventional humor. There is nothing entertaining nor uplifting about a humorless hack with writer's block, especially if he's a dime novelist.<br />The denouement and unmasking of the killer was telegraphed much earlier than it should've been and overall the motive, opportunity, and means of the murder seemed flat and uninspired. The supporting cast of Crombie, Gehringer, Rebecca Davies, et al seems to be a promising ensemble and I look forward to seeing these characters develop along with Webb. I only hope they have more humor the next time around and are involved with a longer, more substantial murdermystery.	2002-04-17
US	49819884	R2SYHCM0UYKQT2	0312980663	800344209	A Twist at The End	Books	3	14	17	N	N	THE ALIENIST of the West	Steven Saylor is perhaps, barring the great Caleb Carr, the best historical novelist around today. Known for his Roma Sub Rosa series and his wonderful Gordianus the Finder, Saylor travels forward in time and regales the reader with a murder mystery that is based on real life and a \\"detective\\" who is a fellow writer- O. Henry.<br />In terms of plotting and chracterization, Saylor cannot entertain the reader in A TWIST AT THE END as Caleb Carr did in THE ALIENIST. The latter book, a hefty 500+ page tome, gave us an indelible and fascinating look at late 19th century New York city with the kind of perspective that only a gifted historian can give to a lively period in a great metropolis's history. Here, Saylor excels when he confines his novels to ancient Rome.<br />1884-5 Austin is rocked and caught unawares with what is falsely credited as the nation's first serial murders. The police are of course baffled and William Sydney Porter, the so-called detective in this novel, is more concerned with slacking off and warbling love ditties under the windows of Austin's young ladies than in solving the case. Even after his beloved Eula Philips is brutally murdered, Porter does not do much to advance the investigation. Nor should he. It was a classic case of the wrong protagonist being at the right time, as O. Henry was indeed present in Austin during the murders. Imagine Oscar Wilde being made the hero of a Jack the Ripper novel and you'll see my meaning.<br />A large reason why THE ALIENIST and its sequel worked is because we got a sense that an investigation was being made, that, if not the police someone was doing their best to apprehend the killer. As Saylor rightly posits, the Austin police dragged their heels during this real-life investigation. However, there's no talented and well-characterized task force to pick up the slack and the only thrill of the novel is the cheap one of waiting for the next murder, one that we already know will be committed.<br />Porter makesfor a weak, unsatisfying protagonist and the bland characterization is only enlivened by the love between himself and Eula Philips, a real-life victim of \\"the servant girl annihilators\\". The recreation of a long-lost Austin is something that I imagine would be fully appreciated only by a native of that city (as Saylor is), since it lacks the recognition and universality of Carr's 19th century NYC. Still, the pacing is even, although dragged out, and the characterization adequate. The lack of reknown for this unsolved series of murders baffles me as it did the author and I believe that the story deserved to be told.<br />Unlike Carr, who does not shy away from the horror of the murders and allows the reader to look over his detectives' shoulders in his two brilliant period pieces, Saylor affects the sensibilities of his genteel characters and gives us virtually no details of the servant girl murders, thereby depriving himself of the chance to more fully immerse the reader as a novel of this length must do. It's also quite obvious from the first half of the book who the killers are. No twist at the end, there.<br />And, aside from the identity of Porter's blackmailer in 1906 New York, which alone doesn't justify the title and the buildup, there *is* no twist at the end.  All in all, a journey in which the train ride is more memorable than the destination.	2002-04-15
US	49819884	R2UU8C3XAXF7Z9	0553580221	284106836	False Memory	Books	2	4	7	N	N	False Talent	As with MR. MURDER, the most interesting thing about FALSE MEMORY was the dog. Solely on the basis of writing about dogs, Dean Koontz is a Nobel Prize-worthy novelist. However, since humans are needed to carry the story along, Koontz loses much of his sense of humanity. The only memorable line in this novel was when Konntz decribed the Rhodes's golden retriever \\"a love sponge.\\"<br />The rest of the story was labored, overly detailed, and ultimately pointless. Mr. Koontz ought to better acquaint himself with Coleridge's \\"suspension of disbelief\\" because I for one did not think for a minute that any doctor would be able to pull off such omnipotent powers of mind control over even one patient, much less many doing back two decades.<br />Furthermore, I cannot see how anyone with an iota less patience than a rock could possibly be entertained by Koontz's epic decriptions of his stomping grounds, southern California. It's been said that Koontz had a spare, sparse style of writing- Then why is this brick entitled FALSE MEMORY 755 pages long?	2002-03-11
US	49819884	R16F2AEGB82A6U	0684871270	971468860	The Blue Nowhere : A Novel	Books	3	0	0	N	N	The Blue Nobody	This pretty much sums up Wyatt Gilette's character and unfortunately his personality and never-relieved blue devils are contagious. It's hard for most readers to identify with, and care about, someone who interacts with his fellow humans on an almost exclusive cybernetic basis.<br />THE BLUE NOWHERE moves with the ease and speed of a Cray supercomputer. It seems to be well-researched but it falls far short of its potential. The SILENCE OF THE LAMBS/STORM motif of springing a criminal to catch another doesn't work to good effect and one almost wishes that Gillette would get carted off to prison to make room for someone we DO give a damn about. The obligatory bad guy on the inside dutifully makes his appearance after the obligatory last minute red herring is proven innocent but you come to expect this with Deaver and almost yawn at the prospect of trying to anticipate Deaver. <br />Phate never strikes me as being much more menacing than the prototypical snotty fat guy who works at your local Comp USA and the only difference between Phate and Wyatt is that the latter has a slightly better grasp of reality and more regard for the human lives with which he nonetheless rarely interacts. <br />About the most ingenious and interesting thing about THE BLUE NOWHERE is that the chapter numbers are in binary. If you want to read a great novel about a computer hacker, read or reread William Gibson's classic NEUROMANCER (a book with the best opening line I have ever read). If you want to read a good Deaver book, then wait until the next Lincoln Rhyme thriller THE STONE MONKEY, a series in which Deaver is at his best, obviously because he cares about THOSE characters.	2002-03-09
US	49819884	R12FG5CA7UEESM	0684871270	971468860	The Blue Nowhere : A Novel	Books	3	1	1	N	N	The Blue Nobody	This pretty much sums up Wyatt Gilette's character and unfortunately his personality and never-relieved blue devils are contagious. It's hard for most readers to identify with, and care about, someone who interacts with his fellow humans on an almost exclusive cybernetic basis.<br />THE BLUE NOWHERE moves with the ease and speed of a Cray supercomputer. It seems to be well-researched but it falls far short of its potential. The SILENCE OF THE LAMBS/STORM motif of springing a criminal to catch another doesn't work to good effect and one almost wishes that Gillette would get carted off to prison to make room for someone we DO give a damn about. The obligatory bad guy on the inside dutifully makes his appearance after the obligatory last minute red herring is proven innocent but you come to expect this with Deaver and almost yawn at the prospect of trying to anticipate him. <br />Phate never strikes me as being much more menacing than the prototypical snotty fat guy who works at your local Comp USA and the only difference between Phate and Wyatt is that the latter has a slightly better grasp of reality and more regard for the human lives with which he nonetheless rarely interacts. <br />About the most ingenious and interesting thing about THE BLUE NOWHERE is that the chapter numbers are in binary. If you want to read a great novel about a computer hacker, read or reread William Gibson's classic NEUROMANCER (a book with the best opening line I have ever read). If you want to read a good Deaver book, then wait until the next Lincoln Rhyme thriller THE STONE MONKEY, a series in which Deaver is at his best, obviously because he cares about THOSE characters.	2002-03-09
US	49819884	R2NLTHU3FKJHY5	0451202473	91466535	Bones	Books	3	1	1	N	N	A breakout book for Jan Burke	I've never read any of the Irene Kelly mysteries before but there was a subaudible buzz about BONES that good, perceptive readers had heard about THE ALIENIST, A MAIDEN'S GRAVE and THE BONE COLLECTOR. While BONES doesn't quite match up to the abovementioned books (the characterization and dialogue is a bit stale and the book features a bewilderingly large array of supporting characters), the character of Nick Parrish is an intriguing one and the various \\"messages\\" that he leaves for Irene are chilling and disturbing. <BR>And it is Nick Parrish who's also the reason I gave this book only three stars. I would've liked to have seen more space given to Parrish's point of view and more vivid descriptions of his handiwork, which Burke shies from. An interesting character like Parrish deserves to have his psychopathology explored and explicated for the reader. <BR>The premise for BONES is this: Take the last scene of SE7EN and then write a story from there. Nick Parrish strikes a deal- commutation of his death sentence to a life sentence if he shows the authorities where the body of his last victim is buried. Much mystery is built up and one even begins to speculate whether she's even dead. But when her corpse is exhumed, Burke never explains adequately why Parrish tortured and killed her, which would've at least begun to explain his twisted motives for killing who he did and continues to kill. <BR>Parrish's escape is ingenious and the identity of his assistant The Moth is a genuine surprise. If Burke can think of a way to bring Parrish back, I'd certainly buy a hardcover sequel.	2002-03-04
US	49819884	R35IUW7H6ERCZS	044661095X	565707898	Killing Time	Books	2	4	6	N	N	Jules Verne meets George Orwell- and neither are impressed.	Reviewer: Robert Crawford from Hudson, MA<BR>In KILLING TIME, fans of Caleb Carr's seminal thrillers THE ALIENIST and THE ANGEL OF DARKNESS will no doubt experience the same disappointment that I had. When I'd first seen KILLING TIME in the bookstores last year, I was thrilled that Mr. Carr had stretched his wings and attempted science fiction. Since the narrative, characterization and plot in his two thrillers were winners in my book, I figured, How could he fail? <BR>Carr found three ways- With his narrative, characterization and plot. If Jules Verne had been transplanted via time machine to our generation, this is what he would've produced. I cannot fathom why Carr's spaceship/submarine is deliberately made to look like something from a turn-of-the-century silent sci-fi film, nor why the characters speak like Henry James automatons. I picture all of them strutting about in puffy shirts and pomaded hair. Nor can I divine why Carr felt it necessary to introduce his own pet paranoias into a book with such a promising concept. With no solution offered, all the reader is left with is a vague sense of \\"This is what will happen to us\\", not that many of us are in the catbird seat of Destiny as regards US-Chinese trade relations, The Internet, etc. <BR>KILLING TIME could've been turned into quite a winning and intriguing murder mystery if it had been confined to the assassination of President Forrester and the doctored video of her murder. Instead, this incredible story takes a backseat to an ailing little megalomaniac, his nymphomaniacal, homicidal sister, their motley crew of prevaricating nerds and sundry, and assorted psychos. <BR>I have been unable to finish it, a rarity for someone who loves good authors.	2002-03-04
US	49819884	R1XB9YS5817VBF	0451202473	91466535	Bones	Books	3	2	3	N	N	A breakout book for Jan Burke	I've never read any of the Irene Kelly mysteries before but there was a subaudible buzz about BONES that good, perceptive readers had heard about THE ALIENIST, A MAIDEN'S GRAVE and THE BONE COLLECTOR. While BONES doesn't quite match up to the abovementioned books (the characterization and dialogue is a bit stale and the book features a bewilderingly large array of supporting characters), the character of Nick Parrish is an intriguing one and the various \\"messages\\" that he leaves for Irene are chilling and disturbing.<br />And it is Nick Parrish who's also the reason I gave this book only three stars. I would've liked to have seen more space given to Parrish's point of view and more vivid descriptions of his handiwork, which Burke shies from. An interesting character like Parrish deserves to have his psychopathology explored and explicated for the reader.<br />The premise for BONES is this: Take the last scene of SE7EN and then write a story from there. Nick Parrish strikes a deal- commutation of his death sentence to a life sentence if he shows the authorities where the body of his last victim is buried. Much mystery is built up and one even begins to speculate whether she's even dead. But when her corpse is exhumed, Burke never explains adequately why Parrish tortured and killed her, which would've at least begun to explain his twisted motives for killing who he did and continues to kill.<br />Parrish's escape is ingenious and the identity of his assistant The Moth is a genuine surprise. If Burke can think of a way to bring Parrish back, I'd certainly buy a hardcover sequel.	2002-03-01
US	49819884	RR7JP2DPZ1WZP	044661095X	565707898	Killing Time	Books	2	1	1	N	N	Jules Verne meets George Orwell- and neither are impressed.	In KILLING TIME, fans of Caleb Carr's seminal thrillers THE ALIENIST and THE ANGEL OF DARKNESS will no doubt experience the same disappointment that I had. When I'd first seen KILLING TIME in the bookstores last year, I was thrilled that Mr. Carr had stretched his wings and attempted science fiction. Since the narrative, characterization and plot in his two thrillers were winners in my book, I figured, How could he fail?<br />Carr found three ways- With his narrative, characterization and plot. If Jules Verne had been transplanted via time machine to our generation, this is what he would've produced. I cannot fathom why Carr's spaceship/submarine is deliberately made to look like something from a turn-of-the-century silent sci-fi film, nor why the characters speak like Henry James automatons. I picture all of them strutting about in puffy shirts and pomaded hair. Nor can I divine why Carr felt it necessary to introduce his own pet paranoias into a book with such a promising concept. With no solution offered, all the reader is left with is a vague sense of \\"This is what will happen to us\\", not that many of us are in the catbird seat of Destiny as regards US-Chinese trade relations, The Internet, etc.<br />KILLING TIME could've been turned into quite a winning and intriguing murder mystery if it had been confined to the assassination of President Forrester and the doctored video of her murder. Instead, this incredible story takes a backseat to an ailing little megalomaniac, his nymphomaniacal, homicidal sister, their motley crew of prevaricating nerds and sundry, and assorted psychos.<br />I have been unable to finish it, a rarity for someone who loves good authors.	2002-03-01
US	49819884	R696DJLU8STSS	0671786660	142034644	Even Steven	Books	3	6	7	N	N	A plot to be plowed through, not savored.	To judge from the blurb on the book's dust jacket, it appears to the reader as if Gilstrap has written yet another imperiled child/family-on-the-run novel for which he's rapidly becoming known. But Pocket Books, John Gilstrap's new publisher, is deliberately misleading the reader into making such an assumption. The central protagonists, Bobby and Susan Martin, spend most of the book either at their house or the mall. The only time they are on the run is when they're escaping the murder scene at the national park and are racing back home. Other than that, it's notable that Mr. Gilstrap was trying to stretch his wings a bit here and leaving mainly his devotion to the family unit as the only common denominator shared by NATHAN'S RUN, still his high water mark, and AT ALL COSTS. Pocket Books, however, would have you believe otherwise. Shame on them.<br />That said, EVEN STEVEN starts out promisingly. As always, Gilstrap sets up conflicts and situations that actually ENGAGE the reader. You FEEL Bobby and Susan Martin's desperate bid for parenthood, you HURT with April Simpson in her hopeless situation. These are real-life problems that plague so many of us, yet Gilstrap is able to give them even more dramatic impact in his fiction.<br />But then something very strange happens- the character delineation stops and, while the book takes place over a 24 hour period and doesn't leave much room for character development (OTOH, Susan dramatically swings back and forth from a normal state to a completely delusional state back to a normal state in those 24 hours), the reader is denied the chance for more backstory in these characters' pasts and they become mere automatons for a resolution that is telegraphed all the way from the middle of the book.<br />The action is thrilling, many people get killed or seriously injured but the loose threads hanging at the end of the book are simply unforgivable. What happens to Samuel? What exactly happens to Ricky Timmons at the national park?What was the result of the test at the end of the book, something that seems to have been cribbed from the finale of Tom Clancy's PATRIOT GAMES?<br />How did Jacob Stanns get ahold of a police ID and how did he and Patrick Logan even meet since the former lived in WV and the latter in Pittsburgh? Aren't there enough thugs in Pittsburgh so the crime bosses don't have to import muscle from the sticks? And how does a supposedly canny crime boss suddenly get stupid enough to go back to a federal crime scene to meet with the accomplice of a kidnapper he'd hired (with kid in tow)?<br />And what DA in his or her right mind would simply throw out an ironclad case in which a person attempts to rob a mall, resists arrest and fires a gun at a crowd? And, in the Martins's case, the legal resolution wasn't even addressed- Their problems just seem to have vanished as if the reader can take it on Gilstrap's blind faith that federal prosecutors are soft-hearted public servants who are willing to look the other way at manslaughter and possible kidnapping charges.<br />With the conflict still far from being resolved, the reader looks at the page number, then at the last page and realizes that only about 80 or so pages remain for Gilstrap to resolve all these myriad details. When one sees that he doesn't (he wastes his dwindling space and time dawdling in Samuel's mind about how his father was killed), one has to wonder if his editor at Pocket Books gave him enough time to finish the final draft. The denouement is one of the most telescoped I've ever seen and the ending, while mildly thrilling, left me feeling cheated and unsatisfied.<br />The reason why I'm giving EVEN STEVEN three stars is because Gilstrap's writing seems to improved over the indulgences that occasionally mar NATHAN'S RUN and AT ALL COSTS. Once again, Gilstrap is pragmatic, world-weary, and amusingly cynical. He shifts POV and narrator voice expertly (Samuel's simple-minded narrator, in a way, reminds me of The Digger's in Deaver's THE DEVIL'S TEARDROP).<br />Overall, despite its initial promise, EVEN STEVEN is a thin, anemic effort that doesn't match up to NATHAN'S RUN or even AT ALL COSTS. I hope that John Gilstrap takes greater care with his next effort.	2001-04-09
US	49819884	RNW6KEGR01KIK	0312959974	768479968	Watch Me: They Said She Couldn't Catch A Serial Killer. She Said... (Jay Fletcher Thrillers)	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Helluva &quot;debut&quot; novel	I'd read WATCH ME over a year ago but since I'd just gotten ahold of the sequel CATCH ME last w/e and am ignoring the books bought for me by my family for Xmas in favor of Holt's new novel, I thought that I'd share some of my impressions.<br />First off, I no more believe that WATCH ME is Holt's first book than I believe Robert James Waller has talent. This is a poised, polished, savvy effort and first novels, not even NATHAN'S RUN, turn out this good. Holt is a bestselling author under his/her real name and I'm sure that I've read this author before.<br />Secondly, just when people think the serial killer genre has been done to death (pardon the phrase) someone like AJ Holt comes along to breathe new life and brings us a combination of Brian Garfield's DEATH WISH and Thomas Harris's SILENCE OF THE LAMBS. There are several vigilante novels out there, the most execrable being PREDATORS, but Holt's slick, well-paced effort is easily head and shoulders above them.<br />The characterization was adequate, not nearly as detailed as in Harris's efforts but what the author lacks in character development (I didn't believe his half-hearted explanation as to why Jay turned renegade FBI agent), s/he more than makes up for in plotting and action. The denouement was genuinely thrilling and Holt set up a demand for the sequel, which thankfully had come two years ago.<br />What'll the next one be called? MATCH ME?	2001-03-07
US	49819884	R2UUPOVZQH6O0K	0440224675	313045692	Hannibal	Books	4	3	4	N	N	The best SILENCE OF THE LAMBS knockoff ever written	How does one reinvent the wheel? How does one create, a la Praxiteles, a character as realistic and engaging as Hannibal without becoming a victim of the audience's expectations? Indeed, how much does the reading public own of a franchise and how much control does the author have a right to exert before betraying widely held expectations?<br />These are questions that will no doubt be debated as long as stories are still published and HANNIBAL will often be brought up as both point and counterpoint during these arguments.<br />In the case of HANNIBAL, the reading public is forced to make a choice: Would they prefer to let the chips fall where they may and be grateful for Thomas Harris's latest (and last, it appears) Lecter novel or do they legitimately have certain proprietary rights? Harris is a pragmatic enough individual, I would guess, to not give a damn what the readers think, as long as they continue buying his books. The story's been told and it is as good as cast in stone.<br />If the reader rightfully expects that Harris's narrative gifts have not been atrophied in the ten-year hiatus since SILENCE, then they will not be disappointed. The Florentine historical asides are welcome and provide a tight elliptical sense of justice that befalls Pazzi. <br />The pacing will not disappoint the reader, either, unless they're accustomed to 60,000 word Mac Bolan slam bang shoot-em-ups. Since Harris is such an immensely talented writer, even the straight action sequences (I'm thinking primarily of the Drumgo bust gone bad) are better written and structured than many written by those who specialize in it. <br />It will also surprise the reader that they will find themselves rooting for the captive Lecter and hoping that Starling will rescue him from the pigs. This is largely because the true villain in HANNIBAL, Mason Verger, is a creation borne of true literary genius. This is a character, a pedophile, who reduces underprivileged children to tears with a few maliciouscomments then drinks their tears in a martini glass. Such iniquity we cannot picture Dr. Lecter indulging in.<br />If one expects to find answers regarding Hannibal's provenence as a serial killer and cannibal, then, once again, this story will not disappoint. One finds themself completely absorbed in the flashback scenes in which Hannibal Lecter's sister is killed and cannibalized (backstory that's completely ignored in the movie, unfortunately). Far from robbing Lecter of his mystique, this serves to enrich his character. Not providing a logical psychological explanation for Lecter's unique protocol would appear to be a dodge.<br />But if the reader expects that Lecter will continue killing as he did in the good old days, with Starling once again helplessly wondering to where he'd escaped, then the reader will run up against a wall. This is the bone of contention.<br />The now-infamous dinner scene, portrayed with a fair amount of fidelity in the movie, gives us some elegant but cheap laughs and the weirdness only escalates in the closing chapter in Buenos Aires, when Agent Starling's subjugation is complete. One feels that Harris felt himself a victim of his own creations and sought to change them as radically as possible and thereby avoiding the onus of writing another Lecter novel. It was a tragic and anticlimactic end to one of the best female detectives in modern commercial fiction. No wonder Jodi Foster, on this basis alone, wanted nothing to do with the sequel. She, too, as with countless other readers, took a proprietary interest in Agent Starling.<br />HANNIBAL ends with possibly the best closing line in this decade but it is not nearly enough to counter balance what could've been an even better book than SILENCE.	2001-03-06
US	49819884	R7LGN5037FB71	0451201906	279224818	Storm	Books	3	2	2	N	N	SILENCE OF THE PARROTS	It pays for not only a writer to read widely, it also benefits the reader. In this case, it's enormously amusing to see from whence Boris Starling, a talented but still-developing new novelist, derived his inspiration in STORM.<br />Readers of John Douglas's and Mark Olshaker's MINDHUNTER will chuckle and recall Edmund Kemper when they read the flashback chapter in which Blackadder kills and dismembers his mother. Down to the larynx popping out of the garbage disposal and Starling commenting that &quot;even in death she still wouldn't shut up&quot;, we see just how bereft of inspiration the author was in giving his serial killer some validity.<br />On a more conspicuous level, even the most cursory reader will see just from the back cover blurbs of how much STORM owes THE SILENCE OF THE LAMBS (and this parallel is made even more irresistible when one recalls the author's last name): Female detective with a painful relationship to her father in a sequel seeks the advice of a convicted killer, and implausibly springing him from prison, in order to catch another one. A near-irresistible plot device, yes, but one that should not be overdone or perhaps even done again, not even by the great Thomas Harris.<br />Not being well read in Greek mythology, however, actually benefits the reader, as Blackadder derives *his* inspiration from a trilogy of ancient Greek dramas that uncannily (too much so) parallel his tormented childhood. Only in the last chapters in the book do we see and appreciate how much life is imitating art and recycled back into the twisted art of ritualistic serial murder.<br />Starling's prose is brilliant, especially in the opening chapter aboard the doomed Amphitrite. The writing is graceful, loaded with ingenious metaphors and similes, marking Starling as a new voice that demands to be heard and respected. The only thing of which I am judge is Starling's insistence on writing in present tense. This does not necessarily give immediacy of action or make him a more unique voice nor more successfully integrate the reader into the story. As it is, the ceaseless present tense is a distraction if not an irritation. <br />The penultimate chapter redeems the rest of the book and provides the reader with one of the most gut wrenching, visceral denouements in recent thriller fiction. The obligatory red herrings that are a staple to many murder mysteries successfully throw off the reader until the final 20 pages when Starling adroitly lets us know the identity of Blackadder.<br />There are many knockoffs of THE SILENCE OF THE LAMBS and this is one of the better ones. However, the loose ends (Kate's and her beau's relationship, Kate's and her Dad's relationship, Leo freaking out at police HQ), unrealistic resolutions, the improbable connection between the sinking of the ferry and the Blackadder killings, the lack of page space given to Red Metcalf (who strikes me as being vastly more interesting a character than the washed-out Kate Beauchamp), unoriginality, and the overall sluggish pace of STORM makes me rate it with three stars.<br />Hopefully, Starling will write a standalone thriller next time, one that invigorates him to the point where he doesn't have to raid the annals of true crime for his inspiration. Give Beauchamp a vacation and think of a new hero(ine).	2001-03-05
US	49819884	R3H11CDJUN1S9E	1551665735	870830835	A Perfect Evil	Books	3	8	10	N	N	A Minor ALIENIST.	When Ms. Kava had sent me the first nine chapters of this novel in an email ms last spring, I had to admit that I was hooked by page one. It was agonizing for me to have to wait another year and a half to read the rest of my friend's book. However, I had guessed at the killer's identity and Jefferys's relationship to him after reading the first nine chapters. I'm glad (and sorry) to say that I was right.<br />Kava sets up a compelling, if thread-worn story (the book's crimes are based on an actual series of child-murders in Kava's small Nebraska hometown. Even the date for Jefferys's execution is slavishly cribbed from the original date), using a near-expert POV that threatens to rival Jeffery Deaver's. The book, despite the annoying pseudo-romantic distractions, still maintains a pace like a Mac truck on a steep grade with the brakes out.<br />The backstory, too, regarding Albert Stuckey and FBI profiler Maggie O'Dell is compelling and Kava expertly sets up an immediate demand for the sequel in the last page.<br />What bothers me about this book, and these points have been brought up time and again by earlier reviewers, is that Ms. Kava knows nothing or next-to-nothing about FBI profiling and protocol, municipal law enforcement procedure and a hundred other topics. There isn't enough actual romance to make the relationship between Nick and Maggie to qualify A PERFECT EVIL as a romance (even though Mira is an imprint of Harlequin). Yet Maggie's pheramonal reaction to the lady killer sheriff merely subtracts from her already fading credibility as an FBI profiler and an independent, professional woman .<br />In the end, I have to say that A PERFECT EVIL, while it confirmed my suspicions regarding the killer's identity (which, regardless of the plethora of obligatory red herrings, is easily discernible long before the end), it fell far short of my expectations. Hopefully, Ms. Kava's sequel, SPLIT SECOND, will be a more mature and accomplished effort.	2000-10-06
US	49819884	R2R1GW5JST0WH4	0451198514	808665909	Stealing Faces	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Prescott doesn't lose face with this book.	Hannibal Lecter, move over. Dr. John Cray is the new resident psycho physician on the ward. Hannibal the Cannibal took one victim's face in SILENCE OF THE LAMBS in order to effect his escape. Dr. John Cray, who runs  a mental hospital, makes this a habit. His signature is as chilling as the  M.O.<br />Then, to his astonishment, Cray begins to suspect that someone is  actually stalking him! The events are contorted and twisted with gleeful  abruptness by &quot;newcomer&quot; Prescott and you would swear that Cray's  captured victim will never escape his deadly web of deceit.<br />Of course,  Cray's uncharacteristically sloppy handling of incriminating evidence is  the only implausible part in the whole book but it doesn't mar what will  prove to be a fine thriller by the author of COMES THE DARK and THE SHADOW  HUNTER.	2000-03-25
US	49819884	RLAV6C38GJJQN	0786006382	482729226	Chameleon	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Timely, well-written, and chilling.	In light of the 12 year old Ohio boy who'd recently held his classmates and teacher at gunpoint with a fully ,oaded 9 mm semiautomatic, this book almost seems like a prophecy. Kennett has written an engrossing, ultimately  terrifying story that bids fair to re-sharpen the blunted sensibilities of  we who have been treated to an almost weekly dose of school  vilence.<br />CHAMELEON is a disturbing book that, while it doesn't even begin  to promise a solution to schoolyard violence, stills presents a chilling,  well-written account of the consequences of parents and teachers not  reading the signs.	2000-03-25
