US	49818928	R3KMNGPITR4KKD	0060528427	350275263	A People's History of the United States: 1492-2001	Books	3	15	33	N	N	A People's History: The People on the Left	A book of history is presumed to be both factually correct and free from bias.  In A PEOPLE'S HISTORY OF THE UNITED STATES, Howard Zinn is marginally successful in the former and not at all in the latter.  Zinn's massive tome on American history gives an ideologically distorted view with all events, people, and trends seen through the lens of an admitted Marxist who simply cannot grant that even one facet from his book occurred without somehow being tainted by the capitalistic cabal of Euro-Centered white culture.  According to Zinn, from the very inception of American history when Columbus waded ashore in Hispanola, the destruction of native American culture began.  Zinn is probably correct when he notes that Columbus and those who followed him were not at all interested in preserving the identity and culture of the native inhabitants.  Where Zinn goes astray is his evident Marxist bias against capitalism in general and his hatred of all things traditionally American.  The United States as a political entity did not even come into existence until nearly three hundred years after Columbus.  The animus that Zinn feels for present day America he projects onto the English, Dutch, French, and Spanish who were in fact guilty of many of the genocidal activities that he ascribes solely to post-Washington America.  <br /> <br />As Zinn traces the growth of the United States, he lumps together an unwieldy mass of social, economic, military, and political events into a lumpy stew that has only one thing in common: that this growth could never have occurred without the conscious exploitation by a white ruling class of aristocratic plutocrats whose only purpose was to foreshadow the inevitable class struggle as set forth by Marx.  By the time that the reader has plowed through a few hundred pages of prose that seems to present a theory of class exploitation over other causes that might explain the hows and whys of the development of a country that certainly had some truth to the charges leveled by Zinn, the reader has grown weary of being spoon fed a stultifying and steady diet of a now defunct Marxist ideology that still permeates much thinking from the Left.  The final verdict on Zinn is that his readers ought to know that his entire life has been spent trying to explain that the United States is the worst most evil country the world has ever known. Apparently, Nazi Germany, Stalinist Russia, and Kim Jong Ill's North Korea were not even close.	2005-10-10
US	49818928	RI9YAND8X01JV	0195099559	532442203	A Handbook of Critical Approaches to Literature	Books	4	11	11	N	N	A Good Place To Begin	There are easy books that discuss critical literary theory and there are dense ones.  A HANDBOOK OF CRITICAL APPROACHES TO LITERATURE falls under the 'easy' category.  A barometer for distinguishing the two can often be found in how often the author uses the terms 'dialectic' and 'mythopoetic' within the same sentence. Fortunately for the novice, authors Guerin, Labor, Morgan, Reesman and Willingham have written a text clearly designed for those who will be taking their first undergraduate course in literary theory. This text was originally written in 1966, when twentieth century critical theory was more or less limited to what the authors call the 'traditional' approaches, which then encompassed the New Criticism (only the text itself counted--no biographical or autobiographical material was deemed relevant), the Freudian/Psychoanalytic (the dim recesses of the author's psyche and personality were indelibly rooted in the work), the Mythical/Archetypal (enduring images or 'archetypes' transcended all cultures to emerge in all works), and Feminist (gender emasculation and castration were unconsciously infused into any work written by a male).<br /><br />The explanations given to these discrete variations are well explained and bedrock.  For the literary novice who wishes to know a feminist interpretation of say, Marvel's \\"To His Coy Mistress,\\" this novice could do worse than to study the two pages given to this poem.  The problem with this text is that it gives scant attention to recent approaches.  The authors lump together in one chapter called \\"Additional Approaches\\" the following: Aristotelian Criticism, Genre Criticism, Marxist Criticism, Structuralism, Postructuralism, Deconstruction, Phenomenological Criticism, and Reader-Response Criticism.  What I got from this chapter was a sort of Monarch Notes version, which, considering the level of difficulty involved in each, is not necessarily a bad thing. On the whole, Guerin et al have written and updated a valuable first text on critical theory that invites the reader to pursue the sort of inquiry that is required on the graduate level. Recommended.le first text on critical theory that invites the reader to pursue the sort of inquiry that is required on the graduate level. Recommended.	2005-06-05
US	49818928	R16AXWBIL0Y6D3	1400054184	925221592	How to Talk to a Liberal (If You Must): The World According to Ann Coulter	Books	4	11	18	N	N	Coulter Punches Not Talks	In HOW TO TALK TO A LIBERAL, Ann Coulter continues the tradition of her last few best sellers SLANDER and TREASON, all three of which combine wit and savage irony in her withering denunciation of all things left-wing liberal.  In her introduction, Coulter explains ten ways how to talk to liberals, ranging from a refusal to apologize to apology hungry democrats to never complimenting them.  Coulter sends up a never say die flare of combativeness that no other republican spokesperson dares.  She welcomes the controversy that inevitably accumulates over such Coulterisms as \\"I am often asked if I still think that we should invade their (Islamofascist) countries, kill their leaders, and convert them to Christianity.  The answer is: Now more than ever.\\"  <br /> <br />Her book is actually a collection of previously published essays from her syndicated news columns mixed in with a batch of new essays written especially for this newest text.  The topics of all these essays are a diverse lot, with most of them pointing out what Coulter views as a never ending stream of hypocrisies spun by the Kerry and Clinton democratic attack machine. In her essay on Rush Limbaugh, Coulter brings the left to task by pointing out that the left never met a drug addict they didn't excuse-as long as his name was not Limbaugh.  In another essay on Jayson Blair, Coulter notes that the New York Times happily published Blair's unsubstantiated and plagiarized articles on all matters pro-left and anti-right, but buried the annoying news on page twenty-seven that his articles were admittedly fake.  What emerges from Coulter's book is a sense of her continuing attempt to point out some bitter untruths of a democratic party that used to honor decency, honesty, and national defense.  Although her target audience is clearly tilted to the right, if enough leftist readers read this and her other and earlier works, then perhaps the seemingly inevitable choice of Hillary Clinton as the latest in a trio of failed democratic aspirants for the presidency in 2008 need not be inevitable after all. <br />	2004-12-12
US	49818928	RHUPJEF52CDO6	044653143X	960521744	Brimstone (Pendergast, Book 5)	Books	3	2	3	N	N	What Is Promised Should be Delivered	BRIMSTONE by Douglas Preston and Lincoln Child is the latest in a series of novels that have murder, mayhem, and morbidity as the thematic core. In their other novels, Preston and Child pair up the team of FBI Agent Pendergast and ex-NYPD cop D'Agosta to solve a gruesome set of murders that may have been committed by Satan himself. What the authors try to do results in a mixed bag.  They set their plot amidst other and more successful attempts in the worlds of THE EXORCIST, THE NAME OF THE ROSE, and Conan Doyle's deerstalker detective Sherlock Holmes.  Part of the problem lies in the unwieldy mixture of this disparate blending of styles and plots that work well in isolation but not so well in unison. Pendergast is Sherlock Holmes to D'Agosta's Dr. Watson, with each having to solve a series of Satanic killings marked by corpses burned by spontaneous combustion and marked by a clover hoofed pawprint burned into the hardwood floor of the first victim. What the authors do best is to present the collective underbelly of a set subsocieties that range from stolen Stradivarius violins to Chinese anti-missile weapons.  Where they fall down is to tantalize the reader with suggestions that His Infernal Highness is once again looking for a new Dr. Faustus to sign on the dotted line for a soul vs power swap. Without revealing an ending that was apparent by midbook, I can safely say that this book was not brimming with the devilish oomph that the blurbs on the backpage promised.	2004-10-02
US	49818928	R2A6ZWSGKBBDLO	0878913467	37441956	GRE Literature in English (GRE Test Preparation)	Books	2	30	30	N	N	A Revised Version of an Inferior Test Prep Guide	When REA (Research & Education Association) released its initial version of GRE LITERATURE IN ENGLISH in 1989, I bought it to prepare myself for that test.  I was not particularly impressed with the organization or the lack of suggestion as to how to best make use of the material presented. Still, authors Beard, Kennedy, Liftig, and Malek included six full length exams with explanations.  That was 230 x 6 or 1,380 test prep questions. I took the test and scored middlingly.  Years later, I learned to \\"psyche\\" out the test and was surprised to discover a new and supposedly updated version.  In this newer version, Malek cuts down the number of tests from 6 to 3. Nearly every one of the regurgitated questions is a reprint from nearly 15 years ago, thus ensuring that this text does not reflect any of the major changes in test content during that time. What Malek does try is to emulate the far more successful paradign put out by the Princeton Review's CRACKING THE GRE LITERATURE by codifying the vast array of western literature: genres, timelines, book and author lists, literary terms, schools of literary criticism, etc. The problem is that Malek did not do half as thorough a job as the Princeton Review did. Malek does little more than to use an overly broad brush to skim a distressingly long list of required readings without giving any hint as how to best do that. True, neither did the Princeton Review, but at least the latter presented a methodology that was reasonable. This is not to say that Malek's updated text is useless. Anything, no matter how scant, that prepares you for a mind-numbing test has its uses, but if you insist on using Malek, you might prefer to go to the library to find the 1989 version that gives more preparation than its more recent cousin.  By the way, Malek's test questions themselves: many of them are so outlandish that one is amazed that he thinks ETS will ask such trivia.  <br /> <br />You have been warned.	2004-08-19
US	49818928	R2QCMY6LPPA51K	0375414827	998457405	The Language Police:  How Pressure Groups Restrict What Students Learn	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Orwell & Bradbury Would Have Understood	When most Americans think about censorship in our schools, they usually have in mind objections to novels like Huckleberry Finn and Catcher in the Rye, both of which have been banned for racial stereotyping or use of obscenities.  Much less known is the more insidious dumbing down of school textbooks that present American history and values as some impossibly sanitized utopia that has as much connection to actual historical and literary veracity as the Greek Homer does to Homer Simpson.  In THE LANGUAGE POLICE, Diane Ravitch outlines a three decades old trend to eliminate any and all references to words, phrases, ideas, and values that even hint that American history and literature might today offend readers with a lowering of self-esteem.  Women cannot be pictured as wearing aprons, cooking, cleaning, typing, or even caring for their children.  Instead, they are to be pictured Soviet-style as driving tanks, arresting lawbreakers, and running for political office.  Men are now pictured in terms that have never been heretofore seen in any society, most often as nurturing helpmates who watch the kids while his female lifemate is lifting heavy objects to bring home the bacon. Children are never described as naughty; the elderly not as feeble, the handicapped as marginalized.  Every illustration, every story, every test must contain references to a society that is racially proportional, gender proportional, and even food proportional.  What is left is a vast reservoir of a patently phony view of a society whose primary goal is not to teach but to self-enhance.  Ravitch includes a thorough discussion of how textbook publishing firms are not the real villains.  Rather, she points an accusing finger at a liberal left lifestyle that sees America more as a sociological petri dish that can be tinkered with to produce a mindset that George Orwell in 1984 might have affirmed.  At the end of the book, Ravitch includes a long list of terms that are prohibited as being sexist, racist, or regionalist.  In any recently published text, you will never encounter a word with \\"man\\" as a root.  \\"America\\" is passe.  So is reference to describing Afro-Americans as living in any impoverished urban setting.  Asians must not be seen as studious, polite, or hard working.  What Ravitch makes clear is that as long as political correctness is the law of the land, then the glossiness of splendid looking textbooks will do no more than mask an emptiness of thought and spirit that the worst despots of history might well have endorsed.	2004-06-24
US	49818928	RM3ZUA73TUYYK	0974537616	164161415	A National Party No More: The Conscience of a Conservative Democrat	Books	3	7	15	N	N	Miller: Pull Yourself Up by Your Bootstraps	In A NATIONAL PARTY NO MORE, Senator Zell Miller explains his disenchantment with his own Democratic Party and why he has, over the years, sided far more with Republican values.  What distinguishes Miller's book from the many other and similar screeds that lash out at the opposing side is his penchant for using homilies and folksy metaphors to indict a liberal way of life that he sees as having strayed greatly from the time-honored Democratic values of presidents Roosevelt, Truman, and Kennedy.  Miller opposes gun control, abortion, and the current tendency for liberals to see America as a sociological petri dish from which unwanted bedrock changes can be instituted using what he sees as a twisted reading of the Constitution.  Miller spends much of his book hiking down a Georgia memory lane.  He learned first hand how to go out and get the vote by meeting with innumerable country folk, most of whom are well capable of distinguishing between a hand and a hand out during troubled times.  Miller's writing style matches his philosophy-an easygoing belief in the ability of his constituency to pull themselves up by their bootstraps.  However, he does not do enough to probe why his belief in self-sufficiency is inherently preferable to the leftist belief that tossing money at problems is the best way to solve them.  Still, A NATIONAL PARTY NO MORE is a thought-provoking attempt by an admittedly old-fashioned political warrior to comprehend why this nation is fast approaching an election that will pull this nation in a direction that will be either disastrously wrong or confidently right.	2004-06-22
US	49818928	R25UPPVVGRHJQB	0060580100	945987328	Hating America: The New World Sport	Books	3	13	30	N	N	A Hatred that Passes Understanding	In HATING AMERICA: THE NEW WORLD SPORT, John Gibson aggressively indicts France, Britain, Germany, Belgium, South Korea, Canada, and most Arab states as vicious haters of the United States in general and George Bush in particular. Gibson notes the increasing tendency for these and other world nations to lash out at the United States for reasons that have little to do with Iraq but much to do with a disagreeable mixture of insecurity, jealousy, and personal animosity toward an American president who is not bashful about using unilateral force against terrorist regimes.  Ironically, most left wing liberals side with these America bashers even if they fail to point out a substitute course of agreed on action.  What Gibson shows is a widespread and monstrously deep hatred of traditional American values, not the least of which is the right of America to act unilaterally in its own defense.  Gibson does try to explain away the origins of these America haters as originating in the tightly intertwined destiny of the crowded city states of Europe that suffered greatly during the last two world wars and have learned to lean over in a spinebreaking fashion to avoid conflict with one aggressor nation by forging ill-fated alliances with other nations.   The target audience of HATING AMERICA is most likely those who already agree with Gibson.  His style is strident, a message well posited by the title of his closing chapter: \\"They're Wrong. We're Right. Get Used to It.\\" If hating America is truly the new world sport, then Gibson's book goes a long way toward fanning the fires of a rivalry that will easily eclipse the next Red Sox incursion into Yankee Stadium.	2004-06-22
US	49818928	R1CWV68VFQXIYT	0345452488	152173173	Time's Eye (A Time Odyssey, Book 1)	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Time As An Onion	World wrecking is one of the most time-honored of genres in science fiction.  In TIME'S EYE, Arthur C. Clarke and Stephen Baxter posit a world that quite unexpectedly has been sliced and diced into various chunks and patched together in a quilt pattern that draws each slice from different times.  The old earth is gone.  In its place is a new planet whose newness does not stop at the surface.  The refitting of the jagged edges of the crust extend clear down to the core.  To their credit, Clarke and Baxter do not ignore the climatological and geological ramifications of such an overlapping earth.  The planet is subject to the sort of superstorms that blast the earth in the recent film THE DAY AFTER TOMORROW. <br />Typical of such world wrecking stories, Clarke and Baxter use a multiple point of view.  The tale begins with an early australopithecine hominid female and her child both of whom are snatched out of some impossibly long ago prehistory and planted in the middle of a 19th century Afghanistan fortress manned by British soldiers.  Other transplanted time kidnap victims appear in quick succession: a Russian orbiting Soyez space station from 2037, a British/American helicopter crew from the same time, and the combined armies of Alexander the Great clashing with the Mongol hordes of Genghis Khan.<br />Clarke and Baxter do not offer their characters as fish out of water.  Rather, they posit them as rational and intelligent beings who quickly grasp the &quot;how&quot; of their plight even if they do not know the &quot;why.&quot; As the various characters interact with one another, they maintain their basic motivation as they try first to adjust to their situation, then to force this new world to adjust to them.  Part of the joy of reading TIME'S EYE is that the authors do not offer a rationale for their splicing of the earth.  Instead, they merely indicate that some long-lived extra-temporal entities have done so for their own purposes, leaving the stranded inhabitants to gasp at the arrogance of such creatures.  TIME'S EYE is the first in what promises to be a series of repatched earth sagas, with each character adding his own unique perspective as he tries to comprehend the actions of these extra temporal entities.  The style of writing does not flag.  The characters and plot flow smoothly.  Recommended.	2004-06-21
US	49818928	R3LNHIIF7JF5MC	0895261111	247571994	Persecution: How Liberals Are Waging War Against Christians	Books	4	29	41	N	N	Christianity Under Attack	There is little doubt, whether from the left or right, that traditional Christianity is under heavy assault.  It is incredible to even consider that in the United States that such a thing could be.  The right calls it a war.  The left calls it the proper separation of state from religion.  In PERSECUTION, David Limbaugh calls it a war of unmitigated gall.  Those who attempt to side with the left usually defend such attacks by insisting that the United States constitution was set up to prevent the establishment of a state sponsored religion.  Limbaugh analyzes such reasoning and refutes it by looking at the historical context of the times that preceded then followed the writing of the constitution.  The Founding Fathers, he notes, were men of deep religious conviction who did not want a future American government to quash their Christian ethic with an unwanted and force-fed non-Christian religion.  Limbaugh adds that the recent flood of assaults on Christian ethics results from a misreading of the Establishment Clause that is now used as a pretext to render irrelevant any attempt to fuse Christianity with any aspect of American life.  The consequences, he suggests, are quite grim.  Limbaugh sees an increasingly powerful marginalization of the very source of American educational and political philosophy--the belief that this country was truly founded by those who insisted on a Creator who made humanity in his image.  Limbaugh lists a distressingly long litany of Christians who have suffered only because they insist that their religious beliefs are not incompatible with their non-religious ones.  <br />Limbaugh goes to extreme detail to point out examples of persecution of Christians in this country by the left.  Part of the problem that reduces the impact of his book is that he usually does not peek behind this overwhelming assault to see the origin.  Most often he attributes it to a misreading of the Establishment Clause, which indeed it clearly is, yet the nasty vituperation and vitriol from the left cannot be a result of a simple misreading of an historical document.  Limbaugh might have better served his thesis had he counterattacked with his own charge that the attack on Christianity is but part of a much larger difference between the perception of the divergent ways of life as seen by the left and right.  Had he noted that the right is core-valued and places ultimate belief in a source outside the human frame then he might have scored points by pointing out that the left is morally relativistic and sees no external source of right and wrong.  The looming presidential election in November, 2004 will go a long way toward deciding whether traditional Christianity will be forced to hide itself just as its adherents must now hide their crosses under a suffocating wool shirt while teaching or passing legislation.	2004-06-12
US	49818928	R1CTVRRCET9ER8	3936709017	527279773	Panties	Books	3	11	13	N	N	All Dressed Up With Nowhere To Go	Pictorial books like PANTIES by David Naz defy description since they often do not fit into a clearly defined niche.  What Naz seems to have done is to present a series of fairly ordinary looking women, some of whom are wearing panties and some not, who look distinctly unmodel like.  PANTIES is not meant to be prurient.  Almost certainly it is meant as a minor celebration of Your Typical Woman.  The models seem unhappy with their poses, a not unsurprising trait since they are not professional models.  Naz has made little effort to capture a sense of the uniqueness that each women must have.  Instead he presents a melange of photos some of which feature the same woman that do little more than show a woman who has matters on her mind that are not connected to exhibitionism or even a healthy desire to reveal a bit of their minds.  What Naz has succeeded in was to capture a sense of the ennui that women probably feel when they know that men are gawking at them.  I know that I felt that same sense of weariness even before I glanced past the first few pages.	2004-06-02
US	49818928	RLQRK3XT4PWKH	0743470656	179618738	The Coming Global Superstorm	Books	2	10	14	N	N	It May Be True But It Is Also Unconvincing	THE COMING OF THE GLOBAL SUPERSTORM warns of the coming end of civilization following the one-two punch of a global warming followed by devastating ice age.  Art Bell and Whitley Streiber suggest that the seeming paradox of intense heat can cause a sudden melting of the polar ice caps, which in turn, can cause a disruption of the North Atlantic Gulf Stream.  It is this weakening, they note, that will result in the massive and lightning quick advance of the polar ice to the previously warm Northern Hemisphere.  Within days, then hours, the entire North American continent, Europe, Russia, and North Africa will be ripped apart by a superstorm unprecedented in ferocity.  This part of their book has just enough reasonableness in its logic to invest their claims with some sobering apprehension.  For those who have seen the film, THE DAY AFTER TOMORROW, upon which this book is based, were treated to some truly amazing special effects of New York being inundated by a massive sea surge.<br />The problem with accepting their premise is two fold.  First, several prominent climatologists have refuted the idea that such a catastrophe could strike within days.  These weather experts agree that yes, such a flooding and freezing could occur, but only after thousands of years.  What the reader has to face is the hard choice of which set of experts to believe.  No one wants to accept the doomsday scenario of Bell and Streiber, so there is the natural tendency to scoff at their claims.  Bell and Streiber, to their credit, admit that it would take courage and foresight to accept their thesis.  To make their claims more enticing they resort to methods of persuasion that are superficially glitzy but do not fall into the category of hard scientific empiricism. And this brings me to their second problem.  Bell and Streiber have written their book as a sort of oddly blended HAB THEORY wedded to CHARIOTS OF THE GODS.  In these latter books, their authors posit the existence of previous civilizations that were quickly wiped out by natural phenomena.  No reputable scientist can accept a premise that relies on an underpinning of sensational pulpist writing of lost civilization.  Further, Bell and Streiber intersperse their text with a fictional viewpoint of a climatologist who passes judgment on the oncoming superstorm.  As long as they stick to their hard science discussion of the mechanics of ice flow, their account is oddly compelling.  But the fictionalized viewpoints and digressions on lost civilizations intrude to the point that the reader shakes his head and wishes for more prose on ice flow and less on the lost glories of Atlantis.  If indeed Bell and Streiber are correct in their premise that the downfall of human civilization is a heartbeat away, then someone else will have to warn humanity in a way that appeals more to the head and less to the heart.  The possibility of being right is no excuse for being unconvincing.	2004-06-02
US	49818928	R1PXNK2B79V2ZT	0785261028	620863197	The Enemy Within: Saving America from the Liberal Assault on Our Schools, Faith, and Military	Books	4	15	20	N	N	An Angry Man	Michael Savage is an angry man.  In his nationally syndicated radio show, in his previous best seller THE SAVAGE NATION, and now in his newest best seller, THE ENEMY WITHIN, Savage unleashes a bitter diatribe against what he sees as the pernicious influence of treasonous liberalism.  He begins THE ENEMY WITHIN with a quote from Roman orator Marcus Tullius Cicero: \\"A nation can survive its fools, and even the ambitious. But it cannot survive treason from within.\\" Savage takes Cicero's comments and applies them to those hot button areas that Savage sees as under unremitting assault by the liberal left: the courts, health care, the military, the media, faith-based issues, the demise of Christian morality, education, and the corruption of traditional Christian American morality.  Savage's style is to use personal folksy memoir and metaphor to introduce his target.  Savage's early life was like a pair of dead man's pants.  His father took them off a dead man and gave them to a youthful Michael who wore them until they needed repair.  His mother fixed them, and in so doing provided Michael with a support system of family love that is in such sad lack today.  Life, for Michael, is much like the collective totality of these early memories.  Today's leftist ruling Hollywood generation, raised on the rabid anti-establishment hippie ethics of the 1960's, sees the United States as a sociological petri dish, with which they feel free to claim freedom for all, but to deny it to those who seek answers from the bible or a strict reading of the constitution.  Savage tends to lump liberals as cut from a common cloth.  To him, liberals have spent a lifetime seeking answers only from within their drug-addled brains.  For a liberal to admit that nuggets of wisdom may reside in a fixed format, say, for example in the King James version of the Bible, is tantamount to admitting that his lifelong mantra of  'do your own thing' has been a fraud from the beginning.  Savage is a strong believer in the 'pull yourself up by your own bootstrap' ethos.  He has no patience for those who expect others to bail them out of a tight spot that they have mightily contributed toward putting them into in the first place.  Savage is especially bitter toward liberals, whom he refers to as 'sheeple,' who demand universal health care coverage.  Savage is convinced that universal health care will bankrupt America since 'This means you must pay more taxes to pay for someone else's mistakes.' (Page 53) Michael Savage is the modern day Thoreau, who wanders Walden Pond, insisting that Americans cease looking for a handout and take back what is rightfully theirs.  As long as America's judiciary, military, churches, and educational systems are aligned with the corrosive numbness of political correctness, then the Enemy Within will hasten to prove the wisdom of Cicero, who even then, back in 42 BC, foresaw the coming breakdown of a once great society.	2004-05-22
US	49818928	R1GZX5LBBC5E1X	0895260859	793726121	The Official Handbook of the Vast Right Wing Conspiracy	Books	3	6	13	N	N	One Half Of A Great Debate	Whenever a writer bandies the word 'conspiracy' around, he usually uses it in a context of an accusatory attack against a shadowy foe.  It is quite rare that a writer chooses to use it in a defensive way.  In THE OFFICIAL HANDBOOK OF THE VAST RIGHT-WING CONSPIRACY by Mark W. Smith, the cabal of conspirators is nothing less than the entire right spectrum of conservative American politics, the Republican party.  Smith exults in and glorifies the role that Republicans supposedly play in their conspiracy to present 'the arguments you need to defeat the loony left.' (from the advertisement on the book's cover)  New York lawyer Mark Smith divides this thin text into twenty-eight brief chapters, each of which follows a similar structure.  He begins with what he terms the 'liberal lunacy.' In his chapter on the desirability of maintaining and using racial profiling as a means to target potential Moslem radical terrorists before they board commercial aircraft, he gives the liberal spin: &quot;Law enforcement should not be allowed to consider race at all.&quot; He then proceeds to give the opposite conservative spin, most of which deals with sound bytes with which the readers of The New York Daily News are well familiar.  Smith likes to quote conservative sources like Ann Coulter: &quot;100 percent of successful terrorists attacks on commercial airlines for twenty years have been committed by Arabs. When there is a 100 percent chance, it ceases to be a profile. It's called a 'description of the suspect.' &quot;  <BR>     What emerges from this book, which is witty and well written, is one half of a spirited debate.  It is almost as if the Lincoln-Douglas debates were missing Douglas.  The squelching of the left side of things is telling, but far from complete. A more thorough dismantling of the left would have entailed having a left spokesman engage in reply.  Still, the OHVRWS is a handy starting point that succinctly sums up the major hot button issues of the looming presidential election of 2004.	2004-05-21
US	49818928	RFICR8W10E3H3	0375432183	695997885	Who's Looking Out for You? (Random House Large Print)	Books	4	4	14	N	N	More Philosophy Than Poltics	Selfishness has long been the target of those who urge that human beings can better themselves only by engaging in its opposite--altruism.  In WHO'S LOOKING OUT FOR YOU?, Bill O'Reilly suggests that selfishness does indeed have a worthwhile function in human relations.  For O'Reilly selfishness is not of the me-first-and-the-hell-with-you variety.  For him, his version includes eliminating those toxic individuals whose only purpose is to drag you down to their own miserable level.  Once human beings are free to live their lives without the negativity of naysayers, then they are free to establish relations with those like minded others who realize that you cannot advance far in this or any other society without someone of note in your corner.    What emerges, then, is a text that is more self-help than political.  True, much of this book reveals the conservative origins of a political commentator who nightly preaches his philosophy of republicanism from his cable television show THE O'REILLY FACTOR.   Yet, the examples that are taken from the world of politics are used to buttress his thesis that we can trust only those others who are truly looking out for our own best interests.  His litany of those who make their fame and fortune off the misery of most of us is distressingly long: the monolithic federal government, the INS, Hillary Clinton, most Democrats, the Hollywood elite core of actors, the majority of journalists, the ACLU, and anyone who prides himself on his political correctness.  His solution? One must make peace with one's own inner core of values.  O'Reilly finishes his book with a series of steps that sound easy enough to say but are probably quite difficult to carry out.  He urges us to take a clear look at our respective virtues and vices.  We should learn to forgive us our trespasses and take positive action to cultivate relationships with those who are no more perfect than we are but we are sure that they are far more likely to help us out of a tight spot than to give us a shovel to more deeply dig ourselves into a bottomless pit.  Ultimately, O'Reilly notes that if we are worthy of benign attention from potential help-givers, then we must first learn to have the strength to go life alone if needed.  Later, as we show tolerance towards others who may or may not wish to help us, then we will be sure attract the helpful gaze of others who will follow a similar path toward establishing a support system of which we will be a willing part.  WHO'S LOOKING OUT FOR YOU? is a welcome breath of fresh air that not only shows the political differences between liberals and conservatives but also points out that guided selfishness is a virtue that we would do well to emulate.	2004-05-19
US	49818928	R115FXS4H17N3S	0312324723	706279848	Bush Country: How Dubya Became a Great President While Driving Liberals Insane	Books	5	7	16	N	N	Sometimes Cowboys Save the Day	What I have noticed about the recent spate of books either praising or damning George Bush is that their collective writing styles are mirror images of the divergent political philosophies of the Republican and Democratic parties.  Democratic candidates (John Kerry, Ted Kennedy, Hillary Clinton, Tom Daschle) tend to be smarmy, shrill, and contemptuous of those whose backgrounds are not part of the New York Ivory Urban elite.  Republican candidates are more blue collar more folksy in their worldview.  In BUSH COUNTRY, John Podhoretz has written the literary equivalent of a call to arms in defense of an American President whom the Democratic Attack Machine mercilessly hammers as a fumbling, bumbling cowboy.<br />Podhoretz divides his book into defenses of allegations that George Bush is a moron, a puppet, a fanatic, a Hitler clone, a financial and military inept, a cowboy, and a liar.  As I read BUSH COUNTRY, I compared Podhoretz's thesis with similar charges by the left made in anti-Bush screeds like WHAT LIBERAL MEDIA by Eric Alterman, who tries to deconstruct Bush with the same tired falsehoods that even now John Kerry is slinging.  Just as Alterman's book is an incomprehensible mishmash of disagreeable verbal sludge, BUSH COUNTRY, by contrast, pictures George Bush as exactly the sort of man vilified by the New York Urban Elite--one who has core values firmly rooted in the historical Judaeo-Christian ethic of a world view that prizes family, honor, hard work, and security.  Not only does Podhoretz do a masterful job of deflecting the left's scurrilous charges of moral ineptitude but he also succeeds in defining the left as a lumpy mess of moral relativists who, like John Kerry, can tell the hard hatted auto workers of Michigan how he prizes his gas guzzling SUV, and then just a few weeks later can tell the Green Peace crowd how he would never own such a mechanical dinosaur.  What emerges from BUSH COUNTRY is the portrait of a leader who has his philosophical rootsin the Jimmy Stewart MR. SMITH GOES TO WASHINGTON film.  The very qualities that the left vilifies in Bush Podhoretz succeeds in uplifting a man whose core values are all that stands between this country's security and a Kerry who would run to the United Nations alter of Kofi Anon while screaming multiculturalism when yet another planeload of Islamic murderers punctuates the claim that radical terrorists hate America not because we are Republican unilateralists but rather hate us for the very qualities the Republicans revere and the Democrats sneer.	2004-05-15
US	49818928	R3SWHOPIWV5D01	0156907399	762777669	To the Lighthouse	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Woolf's &quot;Lighthouse:&quot; Persistence Pays	Those who come to Virginia Woolf for the first time do not know quite what to make of her style.  Most authors structure their novels in the traditional rising action, climax, falling action manner.  A linear line of plot is most often the key to their works.  In Woolf's novels, she eschews such straight line plotting in favor of a weirdly blended kaleidoscopic view that makes relentless use of both a stream of consciousness narrator and interior monologues.  In TO THE LIGHTHOUSE, Woolf tells the tale of a married couple, the Ramsays, who lived in England just before the First World War.  The Ramsays are the prototypical Victorian family replete with servants, a summer beach house, eight children, and a keen awareness of the fragility of life.  What happens to them is neither earth shaking nor memorable.  What happens within them is of far greater consequence.  As Woolf focuses on each character, she presents a highly subjective view of the internal thought processes of that character.  Each thought is like a ripple caused by a stone thrown into a still pool.  Woolf allows her character to meander not only spatially (from point to point) but also chronologically.  Events are described as if they were occurring within the literal present, but most often the events are from the past merging into the future.  Thus, the plot ripple pool is constantly crosscutting each other with events removed from each other both in space and in time.  It is no wonder, then, that readers unfamiliar with such an expanding and contracting temporal flux are confused.  Woolf challenges her readers to involve themselves in a manner that requires a dedication to reading not often found in more traditionally structured novels.<BR>     <BR>As one reads from section to section (there are three: The Window, Time Passes, and The Lighthouse), one becomes aware that the novel's primary symbols--the lighthouse, Lily's painting, the sea, and the internalized thought processes of Mrs. Ramsay--functionin a manner that does not become clear until after one has read considerably into this admittedly puzzling work.  The initial clue lies within the title of the book: &quot;To the Lighthouse.&quot;  Thus, the lighthouse is seen both as a starting point in a journey (its radiating beacon of light lies close to the Ramsay's summer home) and a destination in that the youngest of the Ramsays, James, wants to go there, but it takes him ten years to do so.  Lily is Lily Briscoe, a close friend of the Ramsays who seems to have difficulty painting a portrait of Mrs. Ramsay, no great surprise there since that portrait points not so much to Mrs. Ramsay as it does to an abiding life-long interest of Virginia Woolf herself: the desire to impose order and form on a universe that is inherently chaotic.  It is crucial to note that Lily succeeds only at the very end of the novel when Mrs. Ramsay has long been dead, thus emphasizing the ephemeral nature of her task.  Mrs. Ramsay's personality also is a barometer of Woolf's belief that the post Great War society of England would forevermore be seen as formless as Mrs. Ramsay's meandering thoughts.  The first section &quot;The Window&quot; forms the bulk of the book.  It is here that Woolf depicts a rather ordinary family who collectively symbolizes the inability of individuals to leave an abiding footprint on the shifting sands of time.  In the second part &quot;Time Passes,&quot; time does indeed pass, ten years worth.  The home of the Ramsays falls into decay that requires the re-entry of the surviving family members to invigorate it and themselves in the final section &quot;The Lighthouse.&quot; Lily's painting of the now deceased Mrs. Ramsay allows Virginia Woolf to claim even a minor victory in the ultimately losing battle against cultural entropy.<br />I suspect that the major reason that most readers have with this book lies in their immediate recognition that they have to pay a great deal of attention to psychological free associating.  As the characters' thoughts bounce off each other both temporarily and spatially, so must those of the readers, a most imposing task.  But for those with persistence and an eye for the nontraditional in plotting, the effort is usually worth it.	2004-04-16
US	49818928	R24PMWZPZQE7OR	0684849739	431236317	The Bible Code	Books	2	1	1	N	N	The Bible Code: Chariots of the Gods (Part II)	Those who seek to know the future by studying records of the past will surely be intrigued by Michael Drosnin's THE BIBLE CODE.  Drosnin's thesis is that the Old Testament has buried within it a hidden code that foretells events that have ranged from documented occurrences from the New Testament to those of a general/historical/geopolitical  nature which are yet to come.  Drosnin, with help from Israeli mathematicians Eliyahu Rips and Yoav Rosenberg, devised a mathematical computer program that reduced the entire original Hebrew text to individual characters minus vowels in a single continuous stream, which was then configured into a flexible series of arrays.  They then used what is now known as an Equidistant Letter Sequence (ELS) to identify recognizable word patterns that can be read from left to right, right to left, angled left, angled right, and just about any straight line pattern imaginable.  The ELS program would then \\"skip\\" a fixed number of letters to determine if there were indeed a \\"hidden\\" message in the Torah.    When they added actual names, dates, and places into the matrix, the ELS program scanned the entire Torah and revealed \\"hits\\" within close proximity to each other.  These hits were hailed as references to people, places, events that were in the future of the events described in the bible.  When, for example, they entered the name \\"Yitzhak Rabin,\\" the ELS indicated the following hidden words: assassinated, 1995.  And right on schedule, Israeli Prime Minister was assassinated on November 4, 1995.<br />                    What Drosnin and his colleagues have done was to tap into the universal desire for humanity for an explanation that our world and life are not a random series of chaotic events.  There is a built-in tendency for the uninitiated to believe with no more proof than what is set forth in Drosnin's book.  It is up to legitimate science to apply the rigorous methods of proof before the majority of hard-nosed scientists will accept this astounding thesis.  There are two general objections to Drosnin: the philosophical and the experimental.<br />                    Philosophically, to accept Drosnin's thesis, one must first accept that a higher power at some point intervened to dictate to Moses the entire first five books of the holy Torah.  This, by itself, is no small obstacle in that even the majority of those who read and accept the validity of the bible also admit that the Old Testament was not written exclusively by Moses or any other individual.  Rather, the accepted current belief is that it was written, re-written, and edited many times over the centuries, with many entire passages added then deleted before the King James version was finally agreed upon in the 17th century.  Since so many anonymous writers worked at cross purposes in distant lands at varying times, it is most unlikely that they were in some sort of secret cabal to produce a text that needed modern day computers to decipher.<br />                    (...)Experimentally, other mathematicians, most notably Brendon McKay of Australia, have called the entire process ridiculous and invalid.  Among McKay's objections are the following:<BR>1) With so many billions of letter combinations possible, it is a certainty that if you were to look long enough and hard enough in several dimensions, you will indeed find recognizable word patterns.<BR>2) Drosnin does not indicate how many matched pairs of target phrases failed to return a hit before the use of synonyms returned a hit.<BR>3) McKay was able to use other long texts (Moby Dick) using the same ELS program to get similar results.<BR>4) Since Drosnin's original program eliminated vowels, then adding or subtracting a vowel from the target word would affect the probability of getting a valid hit.<br />(...)What THE BIBLE CODE boils down to is a gussied up new way to sell snake oil.  Until such time as reputable scientists can predict then verify future events, then most educated readers will relegate Drosnin's theories to those of Erich von Donnikan, who similarly thought that human history has been altered by extraterrestrial influence.  Besides, even if we know that a prediction is likely to be valid, then we are still left with the paradox of altering its occurrence so that it need not occur at all.  What then the use of Drosnin's bible code at all.	2004-04-12
US	49818928	R19VKOQT6ORIF9	0684868903	143810887	The New York Public Library Literature Companion	Books	5	6	6	N	N	The Best Single Volume Reference Literary Text There Is	THE NEW YORK PUBLIC LIBRARY LITERATURE COMPANION is one of those texts that ought to lie prominently on the shelf of anyone who dares to call himself book smart.  The list of potential readers is daunting: bibliophiles, poets, novelists, essayists, English literature majors, and even quiz show contestant wannabes.  In its 700 plus pages lies a wealth of erudition not found in any other single volume.  Editor Anne Skillion has divided the COMPANION into three broad categories: <BR>1) Creators--which includes biographical sketches of the major figures of Western literary history.<BR>2) Works--which covers in surprising detail the output mentioned in (1) above.<BR>3) Literary Facts--which lists the names of the characters in (1) and (2)<br />No one pretends that this volume will have enough information to write say, a scholarly paper on one of Chaucer's Canterbury Tales, but for one who wishes to taste the Tales for the first time, one could do worse than start here.  Further piquing the interest of the erudite reader is a series of sidebars, which are both delightful and informative:<BR>A) Writers on writing<BR>B) First books by 10 American writers<BR>C)  Poets at work (Three things are certain: death, taxes, and the fact that poetry rarely pays the rent)<BR>D) The New York Public Library in fiction<BR>E) Shortsighted rejection letters (You'd be amazed at what famous works were rejected by publishers)<BR>F) Nobel Prize in literature winners (Grouped by country)<BR>G) English &amp; American Poets Laureate (Tennyson held this post for 42 years)<BR>H) Standard reference books in literary biography<BR>I) Memorable opening/closing lines (Useful for those taking the GRE in English)<BR>J) Pulitzer Prizes for fiction/poetry/drama<BR>K) Influential literary periodicals<BR>L) Movie adaptations of novels/plays (Great for viewing just before the lit test)<BR>M) Recommended Great Books List (This one is controversial: too many of my favorites were omitted)<BR>N) Landmarks in literary censorship (Includes Lolita, Lady Chatterly's Lover, and The Satanic Verses)<br />This COMPANION is one of those vanishingly rare breed of reference books that can be read as often as referenced.  It avoids the dry as dust patina of scholarly jargonese that infects and afflicts other and similar texts.  If you already have the NORTON ANTHOLOGY OF ENGLISH LITERATURE, then this one is a must buy.	2004-04-11
US	49818928	R2NDQAHXFH5GNZ	0316955108	612064026	The Caine Mutiny: A Novel	Books	3	5	27	N	N	No Mutiny: Little Action But Lots of Words	When THE CAINE MUTINY was first published in 1952, it became an instant hit since the memories of the Second World War were still quite fresh in the collective minds of the adult American public.  Further, the intense psychological give and take which forms the bulk of the last one third of the novel reflected the growing fascination with Freudian theories of personality.  Adding to the sales was the engrossing film version with Bogie twirling steel balls on the witness stand.  However, with the passing of decades, enough time has gone by to permit a more balanced view of Herman Wouk's attempt to portray the stresses that war has on a mind that lacks flexibility.  What emerges is a novel that is so lacking in strong characters and reader involvement that one now can wonder why readers even now try to plow through the nearly 400 pages of mind numbing text before the only good part emerges: Queeg on the stand.  <br />The book opens with what is surely one of the weakest portrayals of a protagonist in 20th century literature: Willie Kieth, who comes across as a feckless and uninteresting naval cadet.  As I was reading several hundred pages of his supposed growth from callowness to maturity, I soon enough realized that Kieth could not carry the book on his vapid smile and non-existent character.  Fortunately, Wouk includes a number or secondary characters who spice up the action. Unfortunately, by the time I come across these backups, I have had to read more than one half way through.  The romantic female interest for Keith is his feminine doppleganger, May Winn, who seems to exist only to prize the dubious value of her probably non-existent virtue over any revealing insights into her relation with Willie Kieth.  Keith's comrades on the Caine are infinitely more interesting.  Clearly, Wouk sets up his book to point to the courtroom confrontation between attack defensive lawyer Barney Greenwald and Captain Queeg.  This part, despite the incessant references to Freudian illness, is Wouk's most compelling achievement.<br />What one takes away today after having read THE CAINE MUTINY is a sense that war truly does warp personalities that are already inclined to be warped.  Yet, an author owes his reading public a more believable set of literary conventions and writing skills that were so clearly lacking here.  When Keith leaves the book as one who has been reviled even by the man assigned to protect him, I got the feeling that Wouk wrote THE CAINE MUTINY as a huge inside joke that illustrates that a book that masks a dearth of conventional literary tropes needs only a &quot;hook&quot; to reel in a series of readers eager to discover some eternal truths about warfare only to discover that the price to learn them is a Queeg-like capitualtion to those same harsh truths.	2004-04-09
US	49818928	R154ENPLFWGK3U	0060582510	541105320	Deliver Us from Evil: Defeating Terrorism, Despotism, and Liberalism	Books	5	11	16	N	N	Hannity's DELIVER US FROM EVIL: The Clashing of Ideas	Sean Hannity's DELIVER US FROM EVIL boldly asserts that evil exists and it intends to harm all things American.  Hannity suggests that the upcoming Presidential election is far more than the contrasting views of two political parties.  Rather, he sees this election as a collision between two mutually exclusive worldviews.  The Democratic view is that true evil does not exist.  For those despots who are truly thuggish in nature--Saddam Hussein, Osama Bin Ladin, Jong Kim Il--the Democratic belief is that they are mentally disturbed individuals who can either be reasoned with, or failing that, can be bought off.  The Republicans claim, in contrast, that evil in its gruesome Biblical adaptation is real enough and needs no psychological mumbo-jumbo to explain it.  Hannity claims that no Democrat can ever admit that America needs to be delivered from evil since evil does not exist.<br />Hannity takes the reader through a guided tour of American history covering the period from Jimmy Carter's presidency to Bush's.  Prior to Carter, Hannity notes that when America was fighting a war, there was an unspoken agreement between both parties to set aside their political differences in the face of a common enemy.  Hannity praises the stalwart resolution of Democratic presidents like FDR, Harry Truman, and JFK.  However, beginning with Jimmy Carter, Hannity sees the Democratic Party as increasingly politicized, even to the extent of putting partisan politics above national interest and security.  Hannity has some rough words for Carter, whom he accuses of allowing both Iran and North Korea to fester into the hot spots they currently are that George Bush is trying to clean up and is paradoxically being blamed for.    <br />Appeasement, in Hannity's lexicon, is a dirty word.  He notes that it did not work with Neville Chamberlain against Hitler in 1939, nor against the Ayatollah in 1980, nor will it work against any of the current crop of terrorist leaders masquerading as the benevolent rulers so often forgiven in the front pages of the New York Times.  Chamberlain had his Churchill, Carter his Reagan, and now Kerry his Bush.  For those supporters of the Democratic line that when the United States is attacked again, President Kerry ought to forego unilateral retaliation and instead run to the multilateral United Nations asking for Resolution # 21 to halt the aggression, Hannity would ask is there even one instance that President Kerry would ever consider striking back without the say-so of Kofi Annan?  The reply of President Kerry ought to give pause to anyone who even contemplates voting Democratic.  Hannity's DELIVER US FROM EVIL is a thoughtful and rightful warning that this country cannot afford a waffler sitting in the Oval Office.	2004-04-04
US	49818928	R22XYD27CU0Z2W	0312972091	186064345	Renewal: The Anti-Aging Revolution	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Smith's RENEWAL: More Mental than Physical	What separates RENEWAL by Dr. Timothy J. Smith from other and similar anti-aging books is his early assertion that the ability to turn back the clock does not depend totally on one specific Ponce de Leon fountain of youth but rather on a spectrum of activities that, if followed, represents just one more step on a spectrum of wellness.  Smith divides his text into seven parts, each of which builds on the previous step for continuity.  He begins with a unified theory of aging (I) which stresses the need to eliminate the destroyers of health, those dastardly free radicals.  Then Smith rips into the meat-heavy diet (II) that far too many Americans gorge on.  He suggests that cutting out fats and consuming fresh fruits and vegetables are an indispensable element of anti-aging.  There is certainly nothing new in being told that your mother was right when she sternly warned you to eat your vegetables, but Smith's special talent is explaining exactly why dear old mom was right.  Smith adds that even the best diets are lacking in the megadoses that are needed to restore youth (III &amp; IV).  Most Americans may have heard of such esoteric supplements as phytochemicals, antioxidants, and Ginkgo, but after reading Smith's text, they might be inclined to dash into the nearest health store to buy them. Smith discusses the role that hormones play in the many-layered process that is anti-aging (V), and in so doing, mentions the potential benefit that accrues from their consumption.  Smith finishes with the role that exercise plays in restoring health and youth.<br />Dr. Smith has performed an invaluable service with RENEWAL.  He is informative, engaging, witty, and bedrock in his depth of knowledge. His frequent use of shaded charts helps the reader to synthesize information that is occasionally heavy going.  The ultimate lesson that the reader gets is not that any one action will lead to anti-aging, but rather that the entire process starts with the realization that desire, dedication, and discipline must be present in the heart before stuffing innumerable nutrients into the body.	2004-03-28
US	49818928	R1KTR8XKL7O6RS	0684847914	266446245	Shed 10 Years in 10 Weeks	Books	5	12	14	N	N	SHED 10 YEARS IN 10 WEEKS: Mostly Diet  Advice--But Worth It	When a dieter seeks to reclaim youth, health, and vigor, he or she would most likely turn to the newest trend: human growth hormone.  Now there is nothing inherently wrong with that as there is a clear place for HGH as a tool for health, but before one goes that route, it might make more sense to go back to the basics of a balanced diet and food supplements.  In SHED 10 YEARS IN 10 WEEKS, Dr. Julian Whitaker and Carol Colman urge the health conscious to reappraise their diet so as to eliminate harmful foods and increase beneficial ones.  The approach of the authors is bedrock common sense mixed with the knowledge that each brings to the table, he with his years of expertise in diet and nutrition and she with her own contributions to Melatonin and hormone research.  What separates these two from other more widely known authors is their ability to take complicated issues related to diet and supplements and make these issues ring with clarity.  Whitaker and Colman divide their book into 10 steps or chapters, with each step focusing on one aspect of dietary advice.  For example, in step 2, called &quot;Lose A Decade's Worth of Fat,&quot; they outline a 10 week program that urges the reader to do all the right things: eat lots of fresh fruit and vegetables; establish an optimum intake of carbohydrates, protein, and fat; cut down on red meat, add soy to the diet, recognize that some fats (like Omerga-3 fats) are necessary for cardiovascular health; choose which phytochemicals might help be useful; be aware of the importance of soluble and insoluble fibers.  Now all this is what your Granny might have been telling you for years, but Whitaker and Colman manage to punctuate Granny's sage advice with the absolute need to listen to her and to them.  The major focus of this book is on diet and supplements.  It is interesting to note that if one were to follow their advice prior to adding human growth hormone to a health regimen, then the results of that HGH might likely deliverthe fancy promises of the hype.  SHED 10 YEARS IN 10 WEEKS is highly recommended in that it takes a complicated subject and breaks it down into easily manageable chunks.	2004-02-16
US	49818928	R3JTR48Y2YQ2AZ	0060984341	652470622	Grow Young with HGH: The Amazing Medically Proven Plan to Reverse Aging	Books	3	60	73	N	N	Some Good Advice Surrounded by Hype	Whenever a new miracle wonder drug hits the market, the result is usally a wave of books written by pseudo-experts or health care professionals with a financial axe to grind.  It is rare to find an objective and understandable text for the layman that outlines this new wonder drug's plusses and minuses.  In the case of GROW YOUNG WITH HGH, Dr. Ronald Klatz has written a text that falls somewhere between the two.  Much of Dr. Klatz's opinion is based on results that were obtained by the painful and expensive method of injecting HGH directly into the bloodstream.  Those who had the tolerance for discomfort and high cost usually obtained impressive gains.  No small wonder here, since the HGH injected was far more potent than what is available on the internet without prescription.  Further, these recipients received their doses under a doctor's care.  The problem with non-prescription HGH is that it is nowhere as potent as that delivered via injection.  Additionally, the fact that those who buy HGH on the internet are not particularly well-versed on exactly what they are ingesting.  In defense of Dr.Klatz, he makes these very points, even if in so doing, he still manages to disguise this warning under a heavy blanket of hype and blurb.  <br />Those, like myself, who have read his book, need to do more than read it before purchasing HGH.  Additional research is needed.  In my case, I discovered that HGH is truly not a means to turn back the hands of time.  Frequent visits to the doctor, a sensible diet, moderate exercise, and a non-stressful attitude toward life will accomplish much of what HGH promoters promise.  HGH ought to be seen as merely one step on the spectrum to wellness.  For those who wish to take HGH in any form--whether through homeopathic means, inhalers, secretagogues or whatever--should first examine his own lifestyle to determine what tinkering is needed to prepare for the next step: HGH.  Dr. Klatz does do an admirable job of hitting the main points ofwhat HGH is and how to use it, but he unfortunately gives the distinct but misleading impression that by simply taking HGH, one may indeed encounter all the hype manifested in the myriad ads of books like his.  Still, with reservations, I recommend GROW YOUNG WITH HGH, but only if the potential user can separate documented fact from fanciful fiction.  By the way, after six months of my taking HGH,I have experienced some--but not all--of the promised results.  Pretty much what I expected.	2004-01-28
US	49818928	R3G2T2G8BQKKWW	1580540392	248414073	HGH (Human Growth Hormone): Age-Reversing Miracle (Woodland Health Ser)	Books	3	26	31	N	N	Longevity Depends More On You Than On HGH	HGH:AGE-REVERSING MIRACLE by Rita Elkins is fairly typical of the recent spate of books that details the promised land of eternal youth.  The problem is not that Ms. Elkins is deliberately telling untruths.  In fact, much of what she reports is pretty straightforward and backed by current research.  Ms. Elkins implies strongly that the benefits of HGH--lean body muscle, dramatic weight loss, suppleness of skin, improved sex life--are all based on the most optimistic of events, namely that one has done his homework and has chosen the HGH most suitable for him, that he takes this HGH under a doctor's knowledge and care, that he combines taking HGH with a sensible diet, moderate exercise, and a low-stress life style.  The glowing claims for HGH as noted by one reviewer for this book on Amazon.Com may be in fact true for that person, yet such claims are anecdotal.  Perhaps those who are most satisfied with HGH and have encountered the most amazing results are also the ones who were most predisposed to success in the first place.  My recommendation is that books such as this one ought to be only the starting point towards an HGH education.  HGH:AGE-REVERSING MIRACLE will put you on what may the right path, but whether you stay on it depends more on you than on a little white pill.	2004-01-28
US	49818928	RV4MWZUGVOTNA	0141000589	912223099	The Complete Pelican Shakespeare	Books	4	41	47	N	N	Shakespeare: For the Layman--Not for Intro to Shakespeare	THE COMPLETE PELICAN SHAKESPEARE is quite good at what it does.  It presents all of Shakespeare's plays, sonnets, and poems.  Each play is preceded by a well-written introduction that attempts to analyze that play in terms of its major themes and to place it in an historical literary context.  I found the frequent line numbers useful in that I could easily look up lines that in other editions might leave me counting up or down from a target line number.  However, this edition is less useful for a serious student who needs a text that includes more than what this one does.  This text does begin with a consideration of Shakespeare's Theatrical World, and in terms of getting background information on Shakespeare, his style, and overviews of his tragedies, comedies, and histories, these are sadly lacking.  The COMPLETE SIGNET CLASSIC SHAKESPEARE (1971) includes all that this one does and adds the following: relevant biographical data, WS's theater and actors, the dramatic predecessors, style and structure, the 'Elizabethan World Picture,' and detailed overviews of his histories, comedies, and tragedies.  THE COMPLETE PELICAN SHAKESPEARE is a useful and attractive text for a casual reading, but if one wishes to delve into areas where Pelicans fear to tread, then I recommend the Signet.	2004-01-26
US	49818928	R8LC6478ANT8V	0953743829	465304170	Patpong-Bangkok's Twilight Zone: A Photographic Diary	Books	3	4	8	N	N	Patpong After Dark: And Dark It Is	Nick Nostitz in PATPONG: BANGKOK'S TWILIGHT ZONE has written a photo-essay volume that casts some much needed light on a city that paradoxically trumps its myriad sins in a much lighted way but the city itself, its non-sex worker population, and its sustaining ethos and culture needs the very sort of attention that books like this one too often skimp on.  The result, therefore, is a re-examination of a city that is probably the most sex-driven in the world.  Many of the photos are of good looking Thai prostitutes in mini-skirts, but the cumulative impact grows progessively more saddened and less erotic.  The photos are accompanied by small commentaries that shed some minor light as to why these sex trade women peddle themselves.  Nostitz indicates that Bangkok had learned that since the end of the second world war its primary coin had to be its women.  The corruption of the various regimes since then and the ubiquitousness of rapacious American servicemen and Japanese male tourists fueled the demand for the very women whose salacious pictures form the book.  As I took in one picture after another, I could see both the surface allure and the less obvious repellence of the sex trade.  Clearly, easy and cheap sex with bar girls, hookers, strippers, and transsexuals are the upside of what a male vistor with liberal spending habits can expect.  The downside is the less obvious flirtation with HIV and the general slimy feeling that one gets when one uses money to obtain cheaply what one cannot get more honestly in one's home country.  PATPONG: BANKOK'S TWILIGHT ZONE manages to explore both pictorially and verbally the allure that sleaze has for the decent if ignorant male tourist with excessive dollars in his pocket.	2004-01-26
US	49818928	R35AF9EDFCHOYC	0393051447	550346223	Khrushchev: The Man and His Era	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Khrushchev: Behind the Soviet Monolith: Contradiction	No one, least of all Nikita Khrushchev, expected him to survive the purges of Stalin to succeed him as First Secretary of the Soviet Union.  In KHRUSHCHEV: THE MAN AND HIS ERA, William Taubman has written what surely ranks as the definitive biography of a Soviet leader, who until recently, was seen as little more than a rather clownish figure who occupied the seat of power only until a more seasoned Brezhnev ousted him in 1964.  <br />Taubman begins, surprisingly enough, with the very day that Khrushchev was ousted in 1964.  As far as Khrushchev was concerned, that day was nothing special.  Leonid Brezhnev, his long time flunky, verbally attacked his boss in tones that left no doubt in Khrushchev's mind that this was his last day on the job.  Khrushchev exits in an unexpectedly obliging way, an exit which shocks the reader since it would have been unimaginable for Stalin to have been similarly replaced.  It is this unceremonius exit of Nikita Sergeivich Khrushchev that stamps him as a man full of a myriad of contradictions.  Taubman details NSK's early life as a man who used his grubby fingers to climb the slippery pole of industrial communist leadership in Ukraine in the early 1920s.  NSK is seen as an uneducated worker who both reveres and fears the mystery that a university degree provides.  For the remainder of his life, Taubman portrays a NSK who is in constant internal turmoil with how to deal with degreed types who know more than he does but must take their marching orders from one who all too often has to offer more bluster than reason.  <br />When Stalin began to solidify his hold on Russia with innumerable purges and executions in the mid 1930s, he could not do so alone.  Stalin relied on NSK to sign the necessary execution orders, with the result that NSK's hands were forever stained with the very blood of those who, decades later, he would have to somehow explain away without implicating himself.  Taubman does not allow NSK to get off the hook lightly, as NSK himself admits that he did what he did because he had no real choice.  While many of NSK's communist party friends were getting their heads lopped off, he kept his.  He knew that the reason most likely had little to do with his strong party convictions.  Rather, with his buffoonish aspect, he was less of a threat than say, Nikolai Ezhov, who as Stalin's chief KGB executioner, was the first to go in a long line of close comrades.  Taubman shows NSK as a dedicated party loyalist who overcame astounding odds to succeed Stalin as First Secretary after Stalin's death in 1953.  <br />Taubman shines as he shows how the very qualities that allowed him to survive the purges of the 30s were the same ones that spelled his ouster in 1964.  NSK was tempermental, toadying, bullying, blustering, and a host of other adjectives that neither Stalin nor Brezhnev were.  What marks NSK as unique in the Soviet pantheon was not merely that he was a transition figure between the suppressive brutality of Stalin and a similar brutishness of Brezhnev and his successors, but rather it is arguable that the collapse of the Soviet state in 1991 was more a result of NSK's liberalization policies than a similar liberalizing under Mikhail Gorbachev.  On that day in 1964, when NSK was stripped of power, Taubman delineates the inevitability of the rise and fall of a man of mutually exclusive contradictions.  KHRUSHCHEV: THE MAN AND HIS ERA is a readable and scholarly biography that clearly points the way to a country that even now has a leader who has to grapple with a failed history and an uncertain future.	2004-01-25
US	49818928	R1LZ0HJNV881WJ	0895261359	182282826	Hatred's Kingdom: How Saudi Arabia Supports the New Global Terrorism	Books	4	8	11	N	N	The Saudis Have a Tiger by the Tail	Most Americans are by now well aware that 15 out of 19 of the Islamic terrorists that crashed into the Twin Towers and the Pentagon were Saudi citizens.  What is less well known is that, despite Saudi claims to the contrary, Saudi Arabia is probably the world's number one exporter of fundamentalist Moslem terrorism.  In HATRED'S KINGDOM, Dore Gold details in a quite thorough way how one Moslem country could tell America that we are friends but behind our backs incite its own citizens to become suicide martyrs.<br />The first third of HATRED'S KINGDOM is a minute historical overview of the Wahhabi sect of Islam.  This part was slow going since Gold apparently omitted nothing of consequence about the birth and rise of Wahhabism in the 17th century.  The final two thirds were most illuminating as Gold describes how the Saudi sheiks have been holding onto power by their fingernails for the last half century.  Gold analyzes a thoroughly corrupt society of inbred princes who hide their corruption (rather unsuccessfully) under an all too obvious phony veneer of Islamic piety.  Gold sees the Saudi sheiks are financial pragmatists.  During the first Gulf War, these sheiks risked incurring the ire of the powerful Wahhabists by allowing Christian, Jewish, and (gasp!) female American soldiers to walk about unescorted.  Gold notes the irony of America's victory in Gulf War I.  With Saddam Hussein defanged as a threat to the Saudis, the Saudis could now feel freer to support a Wahhabi style terror network stretching from Riyadh to New York.    <br />Gold concludes by noting that the United States had better get tough on the Saudis to give up as a support system to radical Islamic fundamentalists.  Unfortunately, he adds that there is no practical way to achieve this.  As long as America continues to bail the Saudis out of whatever hole they have dug themselves into, the Saudi sheiks will continue to spout words of friendship to us and poison to a new generation of suicide bomberswho are even now thinking of those 71 virgins.	2003-12-25
US	49818928	R2WZNFTZ7AT0GJ	0895261014	74442182	Shut Up and Sing: How Elites from Hollywood, Politics, and the UN Are Subverting America	Books	3	5	13	N	N	America Under Attack: From Within	In SHUT UP AND SING Laura Ingraham identifies the enemies of America as being both external and internal.  The external are a given: anyone who is a radical fundamentalist Islamic.  It is the internal enemies that, given the recent toppling of Saddam Hussein, now seem much more the danger.  Ingraham labels these internal enemies as 'elites,' those who she insists see themselves as smarter, more cultured, and certainly not to be confused with the greater number of Americans who do not live in the large metropolises of America.  Although she does not come right out and say so, these elites are kin to the extreme left wing of the liberal Democratic party that took over many of our college campuses in the 1960s.  During the last 30 years, she charges, these 60's rebels, now the establishment, run their academic feifdoms with a stringincy of inflexibility that she finds dismaying.  The far reaching fingers of liberal academia have morphed, she further notes, into what passes for political correctness.  And for Ingraham, it is politically correct for Hollywood stars to speak out against all things conservatively Republican. Out go the Pledge of Allegiance, school prayer, Christmas tree Santas, and what used to be called old-fashioned flag-waving.  In come multilateralism, bowing to the UN altar of Kofi Anan, the belief that any mention of God implies that the mentioner is a Bible thumper straight out of INHERIT THE WIND.  Clearly Ingraham is a conservative who falls somewere on the political spectrum between Sean Hannity and Ann Coulter.  Given her strategy of labeling elites as such, it is difficult not to accept at least on a subliminal level the veracity of her charges.  Still, I would have appreciated a less shrill, and more scholarly approach.  If Sean Penn wants to go to Iraq or anyplace else in the Arab world to warn against Penn's vision of the Bush tide of imperialism,  then Ingraham's position that Penn is emblematic of an elite would carry greater weight if thereader caught a whiff of a little more even-handedness.  And that is the problem with SHUT UP AND SING.  Name calling may convince some, but not enough to make such a book a serious work of political philosophy.	2003-12-21
US	49818928	R1GQ39E7T2N54O	0785261044	408110128	Journalistic Fraud: How the New York Times Distorts the News and Why It Can No Longer Be Trusted	Books	5	22	28	N	N	The Fraud: How Much Longer Can it Go On?	The power of the New York Times to influence the day to day activities of the running of the United States has long been a given.  What Bob Kohn in JOURNALISTIC FRAUD believes is that this power has over the last decade been funneled to present a view that is decidedly left wing liberal.  Kohn draws a careful distinction between those parts of the NYT that are opinion and those are 'straight' news.  No one, least of all Kohn, claims that the op-ed sections cannot favor one view over another. Indeed, it is the duty of any newspaper to showcase whatever political underpinning it wishes.  However, in the case of Arthur Surlzberger, the publisher, the NYT presents the news as little more than disguised opinion.  It takes some tricky writing to accomplish this, so tricky, in fact, that Kohn suggests that such proselytizing cannot be by chance.  <br />Until the mid 1980s, Kohn notes that the NYT was reasonably evenhanded in its partiality.  The front page was for straight news while the op-eds were for mind molding.  What disturbs Kohn, and by implication most of the NYT's non leftist oriented idealogical readers, is that Surlzberger's staff writers abruptly shifted the NYT into an attack vehicle against all things conservative or Republican.  <br />Most of JOURNALISTIC FRAUD is a careful analysis of the many ways that a newspaper can impart a predeternined spin to any story.  By using direct quotes from the NYT, Kohn deflects criticism that his own book is no more than a political counterpunch.  Kohn reaffirms that the time-honored concept of placing the 'who' and the 'what' at the lead of any article is the surest way to avoid setting the reader's mind on a path desired by that article's writer.  When a writer phrases his introduction to begin with one of the other 'w's' then Kohn notes that impartiality has degraded into partiality.<br />Kohn ends his book by listing how the NYT can reclaim its previous preeminent position as the bastion of journalistic integrity.  Heperhaps overoptimistically sees potential for change within the NYT's editorial office.  Whether such change can actually happen is less likely to be as a result of a change of heart in the publisher and more likely to be as a result in a bottom line evaporation of readership.  In either case, JOURNALISTIC FRAUD is a potent reminder that the mighty can fall despite decades of seeming pomp and power.	2003-12-17
US	49818928	R3C5A3MHG98JKZ	0971394253	975323778	Why Do People Hate America?	Books	2	17	22	N	N	Consider the Implication of the Title	Few political books of the year have aroused more controversy than WHY DO PEOPLE HATE AMERICA? by Ziauddin Sardar and Merryl Wyn Davies.  The authors' thesis is twofold: on the surface level, they wish to indict the United States as a monolithic hyperpower that seeks to dominate the world through a financial, cultural, musical, cinematic, and a McDonald's onslaught.  On a subliminal level, the very phrasing of their title well implies a smug assurance that people everywhere thoroughly repudiate the principles upon which American concepts of life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness are historically based.<br />The authors continually picture the United States as a hyperpower that, solely due to its massive lead in military power, technology, and finance, must operate to further its own interests at the expense of others.  More than once Sardar and Davies compare the current United States to historical regimes like the Roman Empire, all of which ruled empires in the old-fashioned sense: through overt military conquest and economic hegemony.  Particularly telling is their condemnation of what they see as unwise unilateralism that flies in the face of a more seasoned European approach to multilateralism. Consider the Kyoto Protocols, which were supposed to reduce world wide emissions of flurocarbons leading to global warmings.  One of the world's leading superpowers recently bailed out of the Kyoto Protocols because of the draconian emissions that would stunt economic growth while doing nothing to force other mega-polluters like China and India to do otherwise.  Do you think I was talking about the United States, an admitted hyperpower that the authors selectively target due to only its colossal size?  No, I was referring to Russia, yet another world power that sees multilateralism as sometimes no more than foolish politicians acting lemming-like in tandem.  Both Putin and Bush have painfully come to realize that wise unilateralism is often more practical than unwisemultilateralism.<br />Further, the authors charge America as ruling the world in ways seen on television shows like ALIAS and THE WEST WING.  Now I have nothing against using media metaphors to prove a point, but when the focus of these metaphors is more on the metaphors themselves than on the point they were supposedly to illuminate, then I demur.  It may be quite true that dramatic Hollywood series exert considerable impact beyond America's borders, but to claim that this impact proves that America is the raging bull in a multinational china shop is simply not convincing.  Who is likely, however, to be convinced by such media metaphors?  Possibly, those who feel some righteous anger towards their own inept ruling regimes may now safely transfer their animus toward a handy and large target: the United States.  <br />The unspoken premise behind WHY DO PEOPLE HATE AMERICA is that it is not the United States government nor its citizens that ought to be targeted as causing the majority of the world's ills.  Any hyperpower would have naturally coalesced into such a target.  By virtue of any hyperpower's size, clout, and, technological prowess, that hyperpower must affect borders beyond its own.  How and to what extent it does so is a function of its sustaining ethos, myths, and mystiques.  In the case of the United States, with all its faults--racial problems, economic inequalties, and historical blunders--the authors may wish to consider how the American hyperpower in an alternate universe, say under a Stalinist, Nazi, or Taliban regime, might have impacted on its less powerful neighbors.	2003-12-14
US	49818928	R2R5KW40GNJYDP	006019524X	822074804	Stalin's Last Crime: The Plot Against the Jewish Doctors, 1948-1953	Books	4	12	14	N	N	Stalin's Purges: Numbers Alone Do Not Tell the Story	When the Second World War was over in 1945, First Secretary of the Communist Party, Joseph Stalin seemed to be at a personal peak of power.  Despite monumental losses of dead Russian soldiers and civilians, Stalin had led Russia to a victory over Hitler and National Socialism that left him in control not only in Russia but of all of Eastern Europe as well.  Further, because of his earlier purges in the late 30's, there was no one left to challenge him either within the Communist party or outside it.  Yet, in STALIN'S LAST CRIME, Jonathan Brent and Vladimir Naumov picture a Stalin who, by the time of his death in 1953, was far from the omnipotent ruler that most Russians assumed he was.  Brent and Naumov present Stalin as a man who could not change to match changing times.  When the war in Europe was over, Russia was not the insular country it had been just ten years earlier.  An increasing number of Russians had an equally increasing contact with Western, and hence, democratic ideas and values.  The horrors of the war reaffirmed in the collected minds of Russians of the need for a legitimate government that followed its rule of law.  The once all consuming fear of Stalin had diluted to the point where some of his less visionary peers would dare to contemplate in the pages of PRAVDA no less of who would follow Stalin once he was dead.  Finally, there was Stalin's health, which by the late 1940's had regressed to the point that his Politburo comrades might legitimately wonder about the line of succession.  Stalin took note of all this and was determined to turn back the clock to 1937 when he could purge millions of his countrymen merely by snapping his fingers.  But by 1949, he could not do so.  He needed more, and the so-called plot of the Jewish doctors allowed him to crank up the old machinery that would spin out huge nets to catch anyone whom Stalin suspected needed killing.<br />Much of the first half of STALIN'S LAST CRIME is a minute examination of the death ofa party comrade, A. A. Zhdanov, who unexpectedly suffered a heart attack and was ordered to recuperate at Valdai, a health resort for members of the Soviet political elite.  Zhdanov died there, and Stalin saw in his death the first filmy web of a plot that he knew would ultimately ensnare at least as many as he purged in the 1930's.  Brent and Naumov progress from Zhdanov's death to blaming that death on a cabal of Jewish doctors.  From there, they detail how Stalin began laying traps for nearly the entire leadership of the Soviet Secret Police, the MGB.  Hundreds of high-ranking MGB officers were purged.  Thousands of Jews were rounded up and shot or sent to a gulag.  Clearly, Brent and Naumov portray a Russia that was only in the first stage of Stalinist immolation.  Yet, when Stalin died, the entire apparatus of destruction came to a thankful halt.  Russian society returned to a business as usual routine.  The gloomy concluding chapters of STALIN'S LAST CRIME suggest that the monstrous vision of a bloody thug leader does not necessarily end with the death of that leader.  In fact, many of the inner circle of Stalin's closest comrades were themselves arrested and shot by Stalin's successor, Nikita Khruschev, who decided that to hold onto power might require a Stalinist approach to housecleaning: a new broom must sweep most thoroughly every generation or so.  Stalin's own virulent form of anti-semitism as suggested by Brent's and Naumov's subtitle: The Plot Against the Jewish Doctors, well indicates that for Stalin at least, recycling Soviet anti-semitism must always give way to creating demons that only he could vanquish.	2003-12-06
US	49818928	R4KF3GDJYI5JB	044653191X	635347725	Arrogance: Rescuing America From the Media Elite	Books	5	9	12	N	N	Goldberg's ARROGANCE: Calm Reason &amp; Logic Prevail	When the left and right take pot shots at one another, the number of those who can explain their position in a way that does not degenerate into mudslinging and still manages to convince is limited to just one: Bernard Goldberg.  Those on the left: Alterman, Brock, and Franken and those on the right: Coulter, Hannity, and Savage often hide their points beneath excessive name calling and blunt sarcasm.  In ARROGANCE, Goldberg's sequel to his earlier best-selling BIAS, he continues his assault on the stranglehold that the liberal media have on the news.  The 'arrogance' of the title does not refer to the knowing smarmy feeling that the left crushes all opposition in a deliberate, cabalistic way.  Rather, Goldberg points out with innumerable examples that the leftist television anchors and op ed writers of THE NEW YORK TIMES do not live in the world that the remaining 99% of other Americans do.  Their world is a Manhattan that is populated exclusively by graduates of the Columbia Graduate School of Journalism.  It is no surprise, then, that one might spend an entire day at work and not meet even one media person whose world view does not vary from your own.  The result is that such media types do not see themselves as 'liberal' at all.  Instead, they view themselves as 'centrist' or 'middle of the road.'  In such an environment, anyone who reaches for an opposing view is squashed in no time at all.  The ringleader, of course, is THE NEW YORK TIMES, whose op ed pages fuel the nation's major television stations: CBS, ABC, and NBC.  Goldberg draws on the recent Jayson Blair scandal to emphasize how the TIMES has morphed into a left-leaning ideologically driven newspaper that mentions diversity as a goal but does nothing to achieve it.  Goldberg takes the TIMES to task by its considering the hiring of Jayson Blair, an Afro-American journalist, as an outstanding example of the TIMES's effort to acquire diversity. To Goldberg, diversity ought to mean more than changing the color of the skin of the TIMES's writers.  True diversity, he urges, comes more from a spectrum of political philosophies than from a spectrum of race.  At the end of his book, Goldberg lists a series of steps that he believes would break this bear hug that the left has on the media.  Unfortunately, in the real world, the left is not even likely to accomplish step one--to face up to the problem--let alone do something about it.  Yet, his very listing of these 12 steps is likely to let the readers of THE NEW YORK TIMES know that if its writers and editors do not even make a token attempt to achieve a fair and balanced presentation of the news, then the previous hegemonic position that the TIMES used to hold will vanish even more quickly than its diminishing readership.	2003-11-30
US	49818928	RFO3V81BGKBMZ	1400050308	820650568	Treason: Liberal Treachery from the Cold War to the War on Terrorism	Books	4	5	13	N	N	Coulter's TREASON: The Medium is Not the Message	When I first read Ann Coulter's TREASON, I was already in agreement with the key points of her theory: namely, the left wing liberal democratic party had for decades been the ruination of this country.  I had already read her earlier work, SLANDER, in which she had argued that the left has long maligned those concepts that the right cherishes: guns, anti-abortion, and a hawkish national security.  What I got out of her TREASON was what should have been a clear message of conservatism was instead garbled by an excessive sarcasm to the extent that many a reader would be more likely to examine the messenger rather than the message. <br />Coulter insists on the following: Alger Hiss was a communist; the NEW YORK TIMES would defend relentlessly to the death the right of any communist to hold high political office; Joe McCarthy was a true American who sought only to warn America of its 'hidden' communists; every democratic President since FDR has been hailed as the reason for the collapse of the Soviet state; Reagan deserves none of the credit for that collapse; the liberal left desires nothing more than to embrace all things anti-American (especially the right not to defend our borders) and carp against traditional World World II virtues as flag waving and buying liberty bonds; and noting that the loudest critics of President Bush are celebrity actors who are fond of traveling to the homelands of despots and happily praise the life styles of those who live under their heavy-handed rule.<br />Most conservative Americans would agree to most of the above, as do I, but I like to think that well-reasoned argument and an aversion to mudslinging ought to be enough to make one's point.  Bernard Goldberg, who says much the same in BIAS and ARROGANCE, establishes a solid crest of logic is his dispassionate dissection of how the left-dominated media distorts the news.  By the time, I reached Coulter's conclusion that &quot;The inevitable logic of the liberal position is to be for treason,&quot; I had already been convinced before I even opened her book.  I simply could not be objective enough to guarantee that a non-believer would have reached a similar conclusion.	2003-11-28
US	49818928	R2XX6MWWM6QA66	3822871818	926817988	Asian Ladies (Photo Book Series) (English, French, German and French Edition)	Books	3	13	33	N	N	Focus On Asian Women: (The Stereotype)	There is a western stereotype that western men have about Asian women.  This stereotype cuts across all geographical bounds and zeros in on the mythical, but probably non-existent image of the Asian woman as demure, sexually accomodating, and anti-feminist.  In ASIAN LADIES, Owe Ommer has a pictorial on Asian women that feeds into this fantasy.  The pictures are erotic, but decidedly not pornographic.  They show good-looking Asian women that run the ethnic gamut from Chinese to Korean to Japanese.  What this Asian spectrum reveals relates more to exposing the collective psyches of the assumed western reader than it does to the subjects themselves.  As I flipped through the pages, I saw many sad-faced ladies who did not seem to know why they were chosen to be included.  Any smiles they showed seemed to be nervous ones.  Clearly, they were not full of the bouncy joy of life expressions that mark Playboy bunnies.  So why would any western male buy this book?  Perhaps he, as did I, simply may want to see a pictorial on lovely Asian women who fit nicely into the prepackaged ethnic slots that contain stereotyped images of ladies who needed a paycheck more than they did integity.	2003-11-08
US	49818928	R1TRMTEBT4MS1R	0451191145	604964480	Atlas Shrugged	Books	3	6	22	N	N	ATLAS SHRUGGED: Novel or Philosophy?	In the America of ATLAS SHRUGGED, Ayn Rand portrays a society that is as starkly one-dimensional as any that has been penned.  To her, people, institutions, economic systems, and carefully worked out values are purposefully depicted as showing a society designed to highlight a personal ethos that places a premium on rugged individualism, laissez-faire capitalism, guided selfishness, personal happiness, and an unwavering contempt for anyone who opposes her core beliefs.  If Rand's heroes personify her often repeated beliefs that American prosperity rests on the mythical shoulders of Atlas, then it is money that functions as the steroids of her philosophical body building. What complicates the extent to which the acquisition and possession of money separates her heroes from her villains is the troublesome issue as to the classification of the novel. Is ATLAS SHRUGGED a novel wrapped around a philosophy or is it the reverse?  This is no small matter, since the reader's perception of and reaction to it is the means by which that reader can assess exactly how money shapes the reader's sense of Rand's entire mode of thought.<br />Not all readers are willing to slog through the more than a thousand pages of prose that describe both hero and villain in terms not found outside comic books.  Unless readers make a determined effort to separate their innate sense of their own realism from the novel's heavy-handed use of allegorical and metaphorical stick-figures, then the relevant question of the function of money is made moot.  As I was reading ATLAS SHRUGGED, I had to continually remind myself not to straddle this metaphysical fence.  I assumed that Rand did not intend her readers to see her titular hero John Galt as a real life fully-fleshed man, but she far more likely intended Galt as an absolute symbol of individualism that ordinary humans could grope for, but never quite grasp.  Yet, I saw that for Rand, it was crucial that her readers try for betterment even if they failed in the attempt.<br />The heroes and villains of ATLAS SHRUGGED both value money, but it is not the physical properties of the money that distinguish the hero from the villain, but rather in how and for what purpose that money was acquired.  Generally, to qualify as a Randian hero, that character has to understand that there is no mystical world beyond this one and that pure reason is the means to apprehend it.  Individuals have to be free from the taint of government handout or stifling restriction.  Further, the pursuit of personal happiness is mutually exclusive with both sacrifice and altruism for others.  The heroes--John Galt, Ragnar Danneskjold, Hank Rearden, and Dagny Taggart--all typify to one extent or another this credo.  The villains--Robert Stadler, Floyd Ferris, Wesley Mouch, and James Taggart--are the heroes' antithesis.<br />The heroes of ATLAS SHRUGGED tend to view wealth as that which was earned solely by the ability and effort of the earner.  If that wealth were stolen, leached, or mooched, then these heroes would refuse to accept it as legitimately earned.  Ragnar Danneskjold is one such hero who meets Hank Rearden to tell him that he wishes to return some gold that he had pirated earlier and now seeks to return it to its original owner. In effect, Danneskjold wishes to be a 'reverse Robin Hood.'  The surprising part is that Rand makes clear her antipathy toward altruism and self-sacrifice toward others whom Rand sees as parasites sucking the vitality out of her genuine heroes.  When Danneskjold says that he wishes to kill a man long dead (Robin Hood), he emphasizes that the world is better off with more of the powerful and vital mighty and fewer of the parasitic masses that occupy the rest of the planet.<br />The mysterious John Galt is the central figure of the book.  It is his name which is bandied about in the often asked: 'Who is John Galt?'  It is his elusive philosophy which permeates throughout.  And it falls to him to speak Rand's sixty page closing screed about the need for society to have a rugged individual running things. This long and pontificating speech is the rhetorical symbol for the novel itself: rambling, excessive, pedantic, and more than a bit boring.  The proper function of money for the Right Thinking Man is the same as for anything else of that man. Honest clear thinking, whether it results in financial profit, (a certainty for Rand) is to be favored over taking or leaching the hard-won results of the efforts of that Right Thinking Man.  At the end of his long speech, Galt is offered the chance to be the absolute dictator of the world--provided that his decisions meet the approval of the very parasites who stole his wealth and power in the first place.  When Rand closes the novel with, 'He raised his hand and over the desolate earth he traced in space the sign of the dollar,' she notes that for Galt and through her, both value the free and unfettered symbol of the dollar over the actual and misused power of it.  Clearly, then, the form and function of money in ATLAS SHRUGGED is itself a function of whether one sees the work as a novelized philosophy or a philosophized novel.	2003-11-05
US	49818928	R4Z0LXFJVWEAO	0070367043	392954064	The McGraw-Hill Guide to English Literature, Volume I (Schaum's Paperbacks)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	For Lit Majors--Or Anyone Else Who Appreciates English Lit	Most English majors face a daunting task in putting the vast spectrum of English literature into perspective.  There is an infinity of books that focus on one tiny aspect of that spectrum, and a much smaller one volume text that one might find useful in preparing for a comprehensive examination.  THE McGRAW-HILL GUIDE TO ENGLISH LITERATURE Volumes 1 and 2 attempt to summarize and analyze a 1,000 year span of an assortment of writings, ideas, and ages.  Both texts have a similar structure:<br />Volume I:  Old English<BR>           Middle English<BR>           The Renaissance<BR>           The 17th Century<BR>           The Restoration<BR>           The Neoclassical Age<BR>           The Emergence of the Novel<br />Volume II: The Romantic Age<BR>           Victorian Prose &amp; Poetry<BR>           The Victorian Novel<BR>           Modern Poetry<BR>           The Modern Novel &amp; Drama<br />Each age begins with a timeline of significant dates and events. Each entry contains a chronology for that work or author.  The timeline is less helpful than the chronology in that it is difficult to make sense of data whose only connection is a connect the dots by date linking.  The chronology is useful in that some attempt is made to show linkages between events in the author's life and his works.  The real use of this text is a series of essay-type questions is posed with accompanying fully-written essay responses, exactly the sort of thing that students might wish to peruse before taking a test or instructors might wish to use as a source for that test.  Authors Lawrence, Seifter, and Ratner have done a commendable job in eclectically sifting through a mountain of potential areas and writing about those that shaped the thoughts of that age.  For example, in Volume 1, they discuss an author not often analyzed anywhere outside of the arcane trade journals--John Skelton, who wrote a satiric commentary (Colin Clout) on the world of a learned old man.  Their clear essay makes a rather obscure poem come burstingly to life.   True, they had to be selective.  I would have appreciated more on Shakespeare and less on George Herbert, but that is quibbling.  This guide is an indispensable auxialliary for anyone who needs the big picture of English literature scaled down to manageable size.	2003-11-04
US	49818928	R20FKTCPIN6UAR	0553210165	641528927	Hard Times (Bantam Classics)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Time Were Hard--And Dickens Shows How &amp; Why	It is unfortunate that HARD TIMES by Charles Dickens is not usually read outside the classroom.  It is an unforgettable glimpse of an age that did not prize the worth of the individual over a collective society--sort of like today's emphasis on the same.  What stamps HARD TIMES as the classic that it is is Dickens' continual focus on the rights of the individual and his championing of anti-child labor laws.  In an age that routinely crushed individuals in the grinding gears of a society that was hell-bent on automating the factory system, it was only lone voices like Charles Dickens who, in his novels, cried out to stop the madness.  In HARD TIMES, Dickens takes a savagely satirical poke at a then popular system of thought: utilitarianism, a philosophy which saw men and children as interchangeable cogs in a machine that demanded that all facets of life and output be reduced to facts, numbers, and quantifiable data.  Thomas Gradgrind opens the novel by insisting that the students in his school be just like Officer Joe Friday from &quot;Dragnet&quot; fame: give me the facts, and only the facts.  Those who can deliver advance.  Those who cannot get routinely squashed flat.  Josiah Bounderby is the villain as he represents the ultimate in a selfishness and fact-centeredness way of life.  As typical of Dickens, there is a vast assortment of subplots that he manages to tie neatly together by the closing pages.  What stamps HARD TIMES as relevant in this or any future age is Dickens' insistance that, regardless of technological advances, the individual will always matter.  HARD TIMES says this as well as any other book.	2003-11-04
US	49818928	RL8UL2IWD5LQ6	0140177396	371714764	Of Mice and Men	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Of Mice & Men: Beaten From the Start	Life was hard and times were no joke in the economically blighted cities and wind-blasted rural areas that marked a Depression era America.  Whatever joy most Americans grasped for seemed to be just beyond their collective reaches.  In OF MICE AND MEN John Steinbeck portrays a people who are just as blighted as the land on which they trod. Lennie Small and George Milton are two migrants who are forced to wander the midwest in search of the American Dream, which, to them, meant a place of their own.  Each recognizes that this dream will, in all likelihood, remain just that, an evanescent will-o-the-wisp that leaves them with little else but to talk about it.  Many times in the novel, the huge but retarded Lennie asks George, a smallish but bright thinker, to rhapsodize about their future.  To George, their American Dream is a place where no one can throw them out.  To Lennie, it is a place where he can raise rabbits.  And it is not only Lennie and George who reach out for the unobtainable.  It is arguable that nearly everyone else has their own competing dreams, with the same chance of success as Lennie and George have--none at all.  The ranch hands where Lennie and George find roustabout jobs are the hopeless in search of the unobtainable.  Candy is a one-armed elderly worker who seeks security for his old age.  Crooks is a proud black worker who searches for racial equality in an age that did not know the term.  Curley is a nastily pugnacious man who spends most of the scenes in which he appears in a hopeless and helpless Holy Grail search for his wife who spends an equal amount of time staying out of his way.  And then there is Curley's wife, who is so bereft of identity that Steinbeck chooses not even to give her a name.  She wanders the book like a meandering Eve, seeking only to disrupt the ordered lives of the men around her.  In her search for meaning to her life, she collides with a corresponding search by Lennie for meaning in his.  When she places Lennie'sunthinking paws on her hair and dress, Lennie panics and unthinkingly stifles her, setting off a chain of events that forces George to play with Lennie's dream of a rabbit warren as a tearfully tragic prelude to ending that dream.  In OF MICE AND MEN, Steinbeck catches not only the gritty edginess of political and emotional instability that then was ripping apart the social fabric of a pre-World War II America, he was also telling a timeless tale that suggests that for dreams to transform to reality, those dreamers had better leave the world of dreams long enough to weigh the balance of cost versus benefit.  For Lennie, for Curley's wife, the price was way too high.	2003-11-04
US	49818928	R4GGKY1EYKNTG	1400047285	150767402	Blinded by the Right: The Conscience of an Ex-Conservative	Books	1	19	84	N	N	Integrity--or The Lack of it--Is the key to Politics	It is rare for any muckracking author to begin his book on a note of unquestioned honesty.  In his prologue to BLINDED BY THE RIGHT, David Brock notes: \\"This is a terrible book.\\"  He then spends the next 336 pages proving it.<br />Brock's thesis is that he began his political and journalistic career as a conservative Republican, but as he saw what he termed ideological excesses on the part of the right, he switched loyalties to the left.  Now I have nothing against one who decides to do that, but when that happens I look for evidence that this conversion was based on an evolving political philosophy rather than on expediency.  My major objection to accepting Brock's having seen the light is that he is an admitted liar and defamer of Anita Hill.  When Brock wrote, THE REAL ANITA HILL, he well knew that he was sliming her just to make Clarence Thomas look good.  Brock would now have us believe that his evolution from right to left also includes a corresponding switch from telling canards to telling truths.<br />Early in his writing career, he drifted into an accepting of Republican causes, yet, he constantly notes that even then he \\"consistently sided with the interests of the very wealthiest Americans.\\" (33)  Further, he adds that \\"Libertarianism was perhaps a better fit for me then.\\" (35)  What I find telling is that during a time when he was supposed to be forming permanent core values, Brock consistently undercuts his own arguments by wistfully adding that he chose to ally himself to a political way of life (Conservatism) when he really meant to choose liberalism.  It is difficult to view his conversion as anything but a waffling sense of moral relativism based on his financial bottom line.<br />Brock mentions the Christian Right in nearly every chapter as an organization that embodies the most extreme of Republican causes: anti-abortion, forced prayer in school, pro-guns, pro-war, and security over civil rights.  Even today, I do not know of any identified memberof the Christian Right.  Those who espouse the aforementioned causes may call themselves by other tags, but not that one.  In fact, Brock uses the term as many left wing democrats do: as a means to demonize those who hold views contrary to his.<br />Bill Clinton holds an unwieldy position in the democratic party.  During his impeachment proceedings, the ones who howled loudest for his scalp were democrats.  Yet, Brock still views Clinton as the apotheosis of political glorification.  He describes Clinton as \\"the most talented and popular Democratic politician to come along in twenty-five years.\\" (127) Further, Brock sees Clinton as one who possesses \\"awesome powers of intellect and charisma.\\" (127)  As evidence of a right wing conspiracy that the right dominates the mass media, Brock notes: \\"The country was being conditioned to see an invention made up entirely by the Republican right: 'Bill' and 'Hillary' Clinton.  Thus,from virtually the first moment that they stepped out of Arkansas and onto the national stage, the country never again saw the Clintons.\\" (128) If the Republican right truly were able to tar and feather the Clintons based on their alleged control of the media, then how did Bill escape being found guilty?  <br />BLINDED BY THE RIGHT emerges as a flawed book.  Yet the chief flaw lies in the author, one whose agenda has very little to do with an honest discussion of self.  The opening sentence of Brock's book stands as an unintended reminder that once he began on a truthful statement, BLINDED BY THE RIGHT goes downhill from there to the last page.	2003-11-03
US	49818928	R2AB6IR3OR9NJL	087628554X	516971867	The Literature Teacher's Book Of Lists (J-B Ed: Book of Lists)	Books	4	10	11	N	N	Literature:A Starting Point	Americans seem fascinated by a top ten list of any category, so it is no surprise that someone has put together a top ten list for literature.  Jodie Strouf in her THE LITERATURE TEACHER'S BOOK OF LISTS has attempted to encapsulate the broad swath of human endeavour that we call literature.  Though the title suggests that the target audience is limited to teachers of literature, clearly anyone with even a modicum of interest in things literary can benefit.  Strouf's chapter headings tell a great deal about how she organizes the rather bulky spectrum that most well-educated readers already know.  Typical headers include (1) Literature: An Introduction  (2)Books For All Ages (3)Genres For All Tastes  (4)Poetry  (5)Drama  (6)Themes  (7) Literary Periods  (8)Potpourri  (9) Endings &amp; References.  The value of Strouf's text is considerable in that many general readers would like to have a handy one page reference that gives a plot summary of a dozen words or less for all of Shakespeare's plays.  Or perhaps you might need to know which famous works have been banned as being overly salacious (The 1969 version of the AMERICAN HERITAGE DICTIONARY puts in a surprise appearance).  Or even which novels have physical disabilities as an underlying theme.  <br />As I read this list of lists, I could see that there is nearly an infinity of uses for it.  A high school teacher might use it to plan a curriculum of guided reading.  A college teacher could photocopy relevant categories of minutiae that correspond with an undergraduate course in Lit 101.  The well-educated layman could even derive pleasure in finding a tidy order in the disorder of written ideas that stretches back to antiquity.  There are not many reference books that one could read as opposed to look up some arcane point.  THE LITERATURE TEACHER'S BOOK OF LISTS is one such treasured example.	2003-10-25
US	49818928	R3493D4D24ZKXI	0375702709	623656058	A Lesson Before Dying (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Gaines' Lesson: It Works Both Ways	Those who read A LESSON BEFORE DYING hail it as a classic of how one condemned black inmate stands up to racial prejudice before he is executed for a crime of which he is innocent. Indeed it is surely that but it is also the intertwined tale of how this inmate, named Jefferson, reaches out for the help of a black teacher, Grant Wiggins, who learns that for him to help Jefferson accept his fate, he himself must first learn that those who preach the value of courage must possess that same courage.  <br />Grant Wiggins is a young black teacher who seems to have it all.  He has a responsible teaching post in a grammar school, a loving girlfriend, and the external trappings that mark him as one who has successfully lifted himself from a deep South ghetto.  It is too easy for him to overlook that his tenure as an educated black teacher in a white-dominant school system is a flimsy thing, one that is totally dependent on the whims of his white school superintendent.  It comes as a shock both for him and the reader to realize that when he left the slums of his childhood for the cleaned orderliness of the classroom he is merely exchanging one ghetto for another.  He might have spent his entire teaching career oblivious to this had it not been for the great bad luck of a foolish young Jefferson to be in the wrong place at the wrong time.  There was a store robbery gone sour, with the result that both the robbers and the store owner were killed, and there was Jefferson right there with the store's cheap liquor in his hand.  During Jefferson's trial, his defense lawyer called him a 'hog,' one who was so incompetent and lowborn that he could not possibly have had the mental competence to participate in a robbery.  The jury, of course, does not buy this appalling rationale and sentences Jefferson to death.  Enter Grant Wiggins, who is sent by his elderly aunt to speak to Jefferson and make his last days on earth dignified.<br />What Wiggins learns during his several visits to Jefferson's jail is that the sullenness that Jefferson reveals is not the mark of the grunting, squealing 'hog' that his lawyer had crudely drawn, but is really the only sane approach that one could have if that man had been treated as a metaphorical hog all his life. As Wiggins probes into Jefferson's past, he learns that his present refusal to communicate hides a desperate need to communicate.  Slowly, Jefferson's rationale for living, then for dying, becomes evident.  The climax of the book is not the death day, but Wiggins' reading of Jefferson's diary that reveals that the abuse that Jefferson heaped on both Wiggins and those who loved him was not abuse at all, but the only way that a man in Jefferson's state could leave his mark on the world.  It is Earnest Gaines' writing talent that lets him express one of the supreme ironies of the human condition: that the man who was supposed to heal the agony of another found that the healer was not the one wearing the business suit but the one in the bright orange prison suit.  A LESSON BEFORE DYING is an unforgetable reminder that some lessons need to be learned even as they are being taught.	2003-10-04
US	49818928	R2RD45YPACZ118	048629093X	219890586	Moll Flanders (Dover Thrift Editions)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Moll Sins But Does Not Repent	It is a shame that for most Americans the only knowledge that they have of Defoe's MOLL FLANDERS is that which was taken from the various movie and television adaptions.  The screen Moll focuses on the superficially glitzy part of what Defoe meant to be the edifying tale of a street trollop who uses her wits unrepentingly to enrich herself without worrying about the consequences.  The transition of Moll from page to screen leaves out the feeling that life was, for her, one long debit page with the cost of an item to be balanced by its functional use.<br />Moll did not start out as an unregenerate guttersnipe.  At the book's start, Defoe is careful to portray her as the innocent lamb cast adrift in a sea of unscrupulous men.  The world of Moll Flanders, the England of the 17th century, was not one designed to harbor any illusions that innocence could long remain that way in the face of ubiquitous lechery and poverty.  Moll is seduced, then abandoned, and at the ripe age of 16,must fend for herself.  The only coin that she retains to provide herself with the necessities of life is the one that she sits on.<br />MOLL FLANDERS is unique among fallen from virtue women tales in its structure and incessant theme that to survive in an immoral world, one must be more immoral than everyone else.  The novel itself is not divided into chapters.  It is simply one very long series of vignettes, extending over many years, that portray Moll as the most infamous flat character in English literature.  Moll's story can be summarized thusly:  Moll steals, Moll eludes the law, Moll has innumerable (and unnamed) children, Moll commits incest (unknowingly) with her brother, Moll gets caught and is imprisoned.  Throughout all of this, Moll changes not a whit.  Her primary defense against a very nearly nonexistent conscience is her powerful sense of rationalization.  One day, she sees a young child with some valuables hanging about his clothes.  She pickpockets them, telling herself that the loss of these trifles ought to alert his parents that they could just have easily has suffered the loss of that child.  Moll glides through life, usually coming out on top.  As she gains reknown for her ill-deeds, she takes the time to compare her lot with those other poverty-stricken women who chose a life of virtue over crime.  Moll cackles at their foolishness.  The only time in the novel that she shows any remorse occurs when she is finally caught.  At Rhett Butler said to Scarlett O'Hara in GONE WITH THE WIND, 'You are not sorry you committed wrong, but you are very sorry you got caught.'<br />The question that modern readers have to grapple with is the intent of Daniel Defoe in presenting a woman whom today we would call a whore-grifter.  Despite the tight focus on Moll, all that we learn of her after 300 pages of whoring is that she enjoyed her life with a gusto and cared not a fig about the consequences to her or to anyone else.  Morality, Defoe seems to imply, is infinitely elastic, and its ultimate use is to justify the taking of material objects that rightfully belong to others.  Moll, then, is the ancestor of Madonna's 'Material Girl,' one who blithely assumes that the bill for immorality need never be paid.  Perhaps Defoe's inner lesson about Moll is that this elasticity of morality does result in an inevitable, if unwanted, payoff after all.the loss of these trifles ought to alert his parents that they could just have easily has suffered the loss of that child.  Moll glides through life, usually coming out on top.  As she gains reknown for her ill-deeds, she takes the time to compare her lot with those other poverty-stricken women who chose a life of virtue over crime.  Moll cackles at their foolishness.  The only time in the novel that she shows any remorse occurs when she is finally caught.  At Rhett Butler said to Scarlett O'Hara in GONE WITH THE WIND, 'You are not sorry you committed wrong, but you are very sorry you got caught.'  <br />The question that modern readers have to grapple with is the intent of Daniel Defoe in presenting a woman whom today we would call a whore-grifter.  Despite the tight focus on Moll, all that we learn of her after 300 pages of whoring is that she enjoyed her life with a gusto and cared not a fig about the consequences to her or to anyone else.  Morality, Defoe seems to imply, is infinitely elastic, and its ultimate use is to justify the taking of material objects that rightfully belong to others.  Moll, then, is the ancestor of Madonna's 'Material Girl,' one who blithely assumes that the bill for immorality need never be paid.  Perhaps Defoe's inner lesson about Moll is that this elasticity of morality does result in an inevitable, if unwanted, payoff after all.	2003-09-14
US	49818928	R2HDJA52FTQWAV	0700612343	625448828	Hitler Strikes Poland: Blitzkrieg, Ideology, and Atrocity (Modern War Studies)	Books	5	15	24	N	N	Poland: More Than a Speed Bump	When German armies poured into Poland in 1939, the destruction was so swift, so complete, and so foreshadowing of similar such invasions, that there is a tendency to measure the rout of the Polish military in terms of chronology.  So many days for the breach to be made, so many for the encirclement of key Polish targets, and so many for the destruction of those targets.  Truly, the German invasion was one of the few times in military history that a massive assault not only met its temporal objectives but exceeded them.  Students of the Polish campaign, like Alexander B Rossino in his HITLER STRIKES POLAND, tend to view the entire five week campaign in terms of Rossino's subtitle: \\"Blitzkrieg, Ideology, and Atrocity.\\"  There is little doubt that the combined Wehrmacht and SS whirlwind heralded a new type of warfare.  Hitler's panzer armies were striking not only at a demoralized and outnumbered Polish military but also at a race of Slavs that for years had been demonized as subhuman.  Rossino lists numerous examples of massacres of Polish civilians and behind the lines Polish army regulars who continued to fight even when it was clear that such isolated encounters could have no effect on the entire campaign.  Rossino's main thrusts cover areas that the erudite reader has read before, but here he focuses on the entire spectrum of a battle that need not have turned out as catastrophic as it did.  In an alternate universe, the Polish government might have suspected that an attack was coming, especially given the many warnings that Hitler provided: his stated intentions to destroy Poland in MEIN KAMPF and his movement of troops to the Polsh border that could not have been a secret.  The destruction of the four Polish armies whose function was to protect Poland is well documented.  The value of Rossino's book is that he explains clearly how and why Poland was put to the quick torch.  Still, I would have appreciated how--given things might have been--Poland could have avoided collapse long enough to keep the Germans at bay for just a few months more.  It is not well known that the quick German victory was fortuitous for Hitler in that he expected a quick victory.  His supply columns for his Panzers and mechanized trucks were quite limited.  He had to win via a quick ko or risk getting bogged down against a Polish military that fought valiantly and would have given a better acount of themselves if their leaders had had a little more foresight.  The unspoken premise of HITLER STRIKES POLAND is that much of Hitler's spectacular successes between 1939 and 1942 were based more on his opponents' ineptitude than on his own sense of a misguided ideological and genocidal vision.	2003-08-31
US	49818928	R3F90W5MXEQ13X	0345344138	926913568	Jungle Tales of Tarzan	Books	4	3	5	N	N	JUNGLE TALES: ERB at His Best & Worst	When Tarzan became a household world, readers of Edgar Rice Burroughs began to pester him to write about a more personalized, more gossipy side of the apeman.  ERB obliged his fans by writing a dozen stories that detail his growing up in Africa during his teenage years.  In JUNGLE TALES OF TARZAN, ERB portrays a Tarzan that might have fit in well in any number of television sitcoms or domestic dramas.  This Tarzan shows a side to his development that is only hinted at in the events of the first novel of the series, TARZAN ON THE APES, in whose events it runs concurrently.<br />Many of the same themes and plot devices that run through the entire series are explored here, several of which show ERB at his literary best and worst.  Plotting and pacing are ERB's strongpoints.  He constantly captures the interest of his readers with exotic yet believable storylines.  Yet, his insistence on coincidence to make his plots mesh combined with more than a touch of blatant racism intrude to the point that if ERB published his books today, a formidable array of political correctness would howl for his scalp.<br />The first story, \\"Tarzan's First Love,\\" describes a teenage Tarzan who has a love crush on a lovely gorilla female named Teeka. Tarzan declares his love for her, and battles a childhood chum for her favors.  By the story's end, Tarzan recognizes the genetic differences and reluctantly gives her up.  What is of interest here, is the psychological battle that he goes through.  More than once, ERB mentions the impact that Kala, Tarzan's foster ape mother, has had on Tarzan, an impact that endures throughout the entire series.  There is a strong Oedipal undercurrent as Tarzan compares the love for Teeka with that of his love for the deceased Kala.<br />In several of the stories, ERB describes blacks in such a manner that he constantly harps on what he sees as their physical, emotional, and intellectual shortcomings.  In \\"The Capture of Tarzan,\\" the apeman singlehandedly fights off more than fifty black cannibals.  In \\"Tarzan and the Black Boy,\\" ERB is unabashedly racist as he notes, \\"Imagination it is which builds bridges, and cities, and empires.  The beasts know it not, the blacks only a little.\\"  Tarzan often baits blacks in this book and others by killing them at random or playing gruesome jokes on them.  In \\"A Jungle Joke,\\" ERB explicity suggests the low intelligence of the cannibal blacks by making it seem as if Tarzan could metamorphosize himself into a lion at will.  <br />If racist themes turned off some readers, other more universal ones attracted generations of readers.  When Tarzan was not involved in the day to day affairs of the reality of jungle life, his human side forced him into a philosophical contemplation of the mysteries of the universe.  In \\"The God of Tarzan,\\" the apeman attempts the age-old human quest for the meaning of life.  He attempts to track down God in the same way that he would follow the spoor of a wounded deer.  In \\"Tarzan Rescues the Moon,\\" Tarzan sees a lunar eclipse and in his efforts to rescue the moon, shoots arrows into the moon until the moon re-emerges from the eclipse.  In both stories, Tarzan goes through the same mental anguish that his human forebears must have endured.  And like them, his conclusions about his place in the universe are tentative at best.  It his Tarzan's reaching out to further distinguish himself from his anthropoid tribe that makes him as fascinating to today's readers as it was to past generations.	2003-08-13
US	49818928	R1T81OU58PB914	068816112X	761772754	Replay	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Replay: Less Paradox & More Philosophy	Ken Grimwood's REPLAY seems destined to emerge as one of the sleeper/cult science fiction bestsellers of the last twenty years.  Most reviewers who have lauded it admit to having given it several readings, with each one providing additional insight. I too have read it several times over the years, and my rereadings have caused me to conclude that whenever a fantasy/science fiction novel draws the reader into multiple readings, then the impetus is not just slick writing or strong characterization although good reads like REPLAY surely possess them.  What distinguishes a one read from a multi-read is most often the philosophy that inheres within the novel as a subtext.  In REPLAY, this metaphysical underpinning is no less than the hero's quest for meaning in an ostensibly meaningless universe.<br />The premise of REPLAY has been often compared to the comedy movie GROUNDHOG DAY with Bill Murray forced to relive each day with only him being able to carry accumulated memory from one day to the next.  Ken Grimwood takes a similar plot device but eschews slapstick to confront the ages old quest for knowledge of self and others.  Jeff Winston is your typical 43 year old successful yuppie baby boomer who dies right in the middle of a phone call.  He awakens (reincarnated?) to the way he was when he was an 18 year old college freshman.  What to do?  What to think?  Since he now knows the major events of the world for the next twenty-five years, an intriguing number of possibilities emerge.  He can use his foreknowledge of sports events, economic cycles, presidential elections, and technological advances to amass a huge personal fortune.  This he does but once he is the 80s version of Bill Gates and Hugh Hefner, he is still left with the unsettling feeling that his knowledge of future events excludes knowledge of the What and the Why of his replay.  For the remainder of the novel, he pursues a series of leads that go nowhere.  One unexpected event is that when he has relived his second life, he dies once again to be returned to the starting gate of his college freshman dorm room.  His lives begin to blur into one another, and it takes several replays for him to realize that regardless of whether he led a good, bad, or indifferent replayed life, all his efforts are erased only to begin again with a clean slate.  Several reviewers have objected to this recycling of present and future lives on the grounds that his continuous replaying becomes pointless and thus boring.  But I think that this cyclical replaying and erasing of all footprints in the sands of time is precisely Ken Grimwood's point.  If the motivation to lead one's life is missing from the more usual sources--laws, customs, rules all of which lead to clearly and unerasable consequences--then in their absence human beings must look inwardly to determine what kind of persons they wish to be. In Jeff Winston's case, he ran the gamut from hedonism to world recreators to one who is both puzzled and angry over a phenomenon that resists understanding.  Each reader, Grimwood suggests, is both pushed and tugged along a moral highway that contains only the roadsigns that they choose to put up.	2003-07-06
US	49818928	R1V37I4I8J05UM	042518613X	185638418	What If? II: Eminent Historians Imagine What Might Have Been	Books	3	1	2	N	N	This Book is Really About the Meaning of History	Most alternative history texts are supposed to entertain as well as to instruct.  When these texts are novelized counterfactuals--like any book by Harry Turtledove--the focus is on entertainment. However, when the ostensible purpose is simply to explore what might have been, then that author is crossing the gray line that separates fun from fact.  In WHAT IF?, a select group of military historians each zoomed in on a critical turning point in battle history, and just as a train engineer can switch rails with the flip of a switch, so did each of these deflect factual events with a minor tinkering.  The impact on the buying public was sufficiently jarring for a sequel, called unsurprisingly WHAT IF?:2 to also resonate.  Here the focus is mostly, but not exclusively on matters military.  Typically, a noted expert describes an actual event as it really happened.  Then, this expert will introduce an historical wild-card, the future ramifications of which the expert will explore.  There are twenty-five essays, beginning with the early death of Socrates, and continuing with essays that span centuries at a jump.  The choice of topics is not unexpected in most cases.  What if Jesus had not been crucified is one that has been contemplated eleswhere.  Or what if William the Conqueror had himself been conquered at Hastings in 1066?  Other issues are more original: What if Hitler had begun his war in 1938 when his Wehrmacht was less lethal than it would be one year later?  Or what if Pope Pius XII had been more forceful in protesting the Holocaust?  Most reviewers have considered the relative merits of individual essays.  Some essays, one reviewer might argue, simply would have been most unlikely because of one historical reason or another.  My focus is less on the legitimacy of one essayist's visual acumen or future hindsight and more on the sweep of alternate events that this text calls counterfactual history but is really playful history.  When one reads that Jesus survived the crucifixion or that a defeated Hitler sat in the prisoner dock in Nurenberg, then one is forced to review history in much the same way that a professional historian might.  What really did happen?  What might have happened then becomes yet another isolated factor in what did.  The thought processes, the logical sifting of cause and event, and the working out of an Asimovian sweep of Imperial Psychohistory then lead the reader into areas where only the gifted and daring historians tread.  How each reader reacts to each essay is less a function of what the essayist brought to the historical table and more of what the reader himself can supply.  In WHAT IF?:2 the reader is challenged to rethink long held assumptions of the iron grip of history and perhaps to find out that this iron is quite flexible after all.	2003-07-05
US	49818928	R2MYTGVXIQZWQI	0465001769	492085239	What Liberal Media?: The Truth About Bias and the News	Books	3	20	42	N	N	The Truth is Fuzzy Even if the Lies are Clear	The number of books purporting to show a media bias is increasing monthly.  Most suggest a left tilt.  Eric Alterman with his WHAT LIBERAL MEDIA? is one of the few that urge a right swing. I have read most of the left/right texts and have concluded that the truth of each book is inherently fuzzy since each side complains of unjustified control of the media.  Part of the problem in ascertaining bias is that both sides acknowledge that bias exists on both sides.  For the liberal left are the major television networks and most leading newspapers headed by the New York Times.  For the conservative right are Fox News, most talk radio, and the op-ed of the Wall Street Journal.  When Alterman weighs the scales of which set of media outweighs the other, he counters that not only does the right thoroughly control the media, but the right has been so successful in complaining of the opposite, that the right has unfairly garnered much public support and sympathy. <br />As proof that the media is right-dominant, Alterman chooses not so much to defend the left, but to attack the right.  Alterman has the uneviable task of defending Bill Clinton's various pecadillos, one that he admits is made more difficult because of Clinton's clear failings.  Instead, Alterman attacks the right in general, and George Bush in particular.  In his chapter on Bush, Alterman asks questions of a president that,if answered to the left's satisfaction, would have resulted in a paralyzed and ineffective presidency.  For example on page 217, he asks, &quot;Does the administration have any hard evidence of Iraq's nuclear program?&quot;  The answer is yes, with this evidence coming from Bush's predecessor, Bill Clinton, and from Iraq itself.  Of course, only the hardest of hard evidence--say a gallon or two of sarin--would now qualify.  Further, Alterman mentions areas not well noted or understood by most Americans, like the alleged Republican version of Whitewater called the Harken sale, as proof of Bush'sunderhanded financial deals.  Ultimately, what texts such as Alterman's--or any other similar such offer--is the belief that the majority of the American people can read both sides and judge for themselves.  With WHAT LIBERAL MEDIA? Eric Alterman fails to offer convincing evidence that the tilt is to the left.  His smarmy comments suggest the opposite.	2003-07-02
US	49818928	RYRI2B6PZNWVW	1891799096	785800233	The Dark Side of Liberalism: Unchaining the Truth	Books	3	13	16	N	N	Good Points Undercut by Lack of Documentation	This review is one of the more difficult that I have written.  For those who like to read about the Left-Democrat versus the Right-Conservative ongoing battle have probably already read other books on this struggle ranging from WHAT LIBERAL MEDIA and BLINDED BY THE RIGHT for the left and BIAS and SLANDER for the right.  The best of both viewpoints comes across only when the author does more than deliver personal opinion unbacked by evidence or documentation.  With THE DARK SIDE OF LIBERALISM, Phil Kent presents the conservative right on issues that are considered hot button: media bias, public school vouchers, affirmative action, and immigration.  <br />The major problem with this book is its brevity (200 pages).  There is simply no way to persuasively refute the counter arguments from the left when author Phil Kent limits his exposure of each topic to some half dozen of pages.  Further compounding Kent's difficulties is his belief that his opinions need not be buttressed by any supporting documentation.  Ann Coulter in SLANDER added hundreds of footnotes as she discussed issues that overlapped Kent's.  Even extreme left-winger Eric Alterman in WHAT LIBERAL MEDIA, a text that is as confused as any that I've read, at least went to the trouble to make his book look as if it had some foundation of support.  <br />What Kent did right was to preface each chapter with the left-wing summary that he calls 'The Liberal Line.' In this micro-summary, he hits the highlights with which most Democrats would probably agree.  Then, he spends the rest of the chapter attacking it.  What Kent did wrong was to demonize the left as the Dark Side.  Such arguments need not be more than just unsubstantiated mudslinging.  As an English teacher, I also teach debating techniques.  One of the points that I urge my students to follow is to determine whether, during a debate, they wish to take the high road (by sticking to facts and reason) or to take the low road (by engaging in emotional rhetoric).  If all they want to do is win, then the former is probably the better tactic.  As much as I agree with the majority of Kent's premises, he engaged in too much of that latter for me to recommend his book or to agree that his arguments can stand the tests of time or future reasoned debate.	2003-06-26
US	49818928	R2R99TLBLXM5Z8	1400150817	302378786	At the Earth's Core (MP3 CD) (Pellucidar)	Books	4	5	6	N	N	New Series New Hero But Still Enjoyable	For Edgar Rice Burroughs, life was relatively simple.  Men fell into one of three categories: muscular heroes, ordinary types, and evil, greasy villains.  Women existed primarily to act as universal lighting rods that attracted either the first or third category.  Regardless of the universe that ERB wrote of, these constants held with predictable regularity.  With the publication of AT THE EARTH'S CORE, he began yet another series that put the hero at odds with nature, evil doers, and beautiful, virtuous women.  David Innes, the handsome hero, drills down to the center of the earth in a manner that brings to mind Jules Verne's tale, both of which posit a habitable, temperate core that supports a variety of lush, prehistoric life. Despite knowing that the earth's core was held to be molten, ERB did not hesitate to bend science for the sake of a good tale.  ATEC possesses both the plusses of ERB at his best and the negatives at his worst.  Like Tarzan, Innes is a likable, manly sort who feels at home regardless of whether home is a jungle or a tea room.  The logic of how ERB gets his hero placed in an exotic locale is irrelevant and often purely unscientific.  For his Martian (Barsoom) series, he merely had his hero, John Carter, gaze at the Red Planet to effect his transport there.  For his inner world series (Pellucidar), Innes used a drill machine, a device that at least tries to be scientific.  Once there, Innes has the necessary adventures with beasts, villains, and beautiful women, in this case Dian the Beautiful.  The workings of the plot about how he finds her, loses her, and then finds her again are almost not to the point.  Where ERB excels in his ability to place the reader, who is usually a 15 year old boy, in a realm that allows imagination to run riot.  Events flow so smoothly that the youthful reader will probably overlook the negatives of ERB's prose style.  In the world of ERB's muscular heroes, both hero and villain speak in the artificial, courtly dialogue that rings true only to the ears of the young.  Coincidence runs rife to the point of ridicule.  Beautiful women are haughty at first, but lusty later, and then only to the clean-limbed hero.  His plots are often mirror images of one another.  You can substitute the center of the earth for Mars, Venus, Africa, or wherever, and hero, villain, and lovely lady are interchangeable.  Yet, despite all this, AT THE EARTH'S CORE is the kind of read that ought to be part of any kid's early mental universe.  Reading Burroughs as a thirty year old requires a strong ability to suspend one's disbelief, but once having done so, the ride is usually worth the effort.	2003-06-14
US	49818928	R3VVJOJ114G6US	B00008RUMV	385557836	The Death of the West: How Dying Populations and Immigrant Invasions Imperil Our Country and Civilization	Books	3	13	25	N	N	DEATH OF THE WEST: PJB Connects All the Dots	THE DEATH OF THE WEST by Patrick J Buchanon is one of the most controversial books of 2002 in that it raises a hot point of political thought: can one be an ardent supporter of the traditional and Western way of life and still not be accused of racism, jingoism, and homophobia?  Buchanon argues with a resounding 'no.' To him, the entire question of whether Western centered cultures must give way to competing cultures is a zero sum game.  What one gains is what another loses.  There is no middle ground.  Cultures,like species, face a Darwinian struggle for existence, and Buchanon is determined that the culture that emerged from northern Europe and later moved to the United States must prove ascendant.<br />Essentially, Buchanon's world view can be summarized thusly: the populations of Western centered cultures like those of the United States, Europe, and to a lesser extant those of Russia are trending downward, while the populations of Hispanics, Arabs, and Orientals are spiking upwards.  He draws from history to note that whenever any previously ascendant culture began to dwindle in numbers, that culture was slowly but surely eclipsed by lower-tech but higher population competitors.  Buchanon sees America's color as becoming less white but swarthier and more yellow.  As the traditional white population declines, its place as the ruling elite will be supplanted by what Buchanon terms as 'hordes' or 'tidal waves' of invading colors, cultures, languages, and peoples.  To explain the reason, beyond the obvious, as to why white women are choosing to have fewer or no babies, Buchanon takes a critical look at the entire spectrum of what constitutes core American values.<br />Buchanon divides THE DEATH OF THE WEST into chapters that focus on discrete sources of conflict between what he sees as a dying Western ethos and a vibrant non-Western one.  In \\"Endangered Species\\" Buchanon lists those countries whose populations are declining precipitously: The United States, Britain,Europe, and Russia.  He discusses the increasing temptation that rival and neighboring countries will face as they look over their borders to see unoccupied lands that beckon as a safe haven for their own exploding populations.  At this point in his book, there is little to question since Buchanon merely repeats statistics that are generally accepted.  However, beginning with his second chapter, \\"Where Have All the Children Gone?\\" he delves into explanations, rationalizations, and solutions, not all of which are acceptable even to those of the Right political spectrum.  Buchanon sees abortion as the primary reason why America's population is plummeting.  He attacks Roe vs Wade, living together without marriage, selfish life styles dictated by rising incomes, and a rise in single-parent families as the primary culprits. Buchanon further attacks the promiscuous/Lesbian/gay-centered/Playboy 'hippie' life style of the 1960's that reduced the sense of shame that might otherwise have strengthened a family-oriented culture that in past generations produced four or five children per marriage. He shows a vitriolic hatred of recent feminist thought that in his view allowed American women to leave the child-bearing comfort of the home for the non-child-bearing environment of the workplace.  <br />Buchanon sees the dissolution of a Western family life as rooted firmly in a concommitant dissolution of core Christian religion, an assault made possible by four historical figures, each of whom laid the grounds for what Buchanon sees as the sorry mess in which we now find ourselves: George Lukacs, a Marxist whom Buchanon sees as a promoter of licentiousness among women and children; Antonio Gramsci, another Marxist, that Buchanon labels as one who tried to capture the West by first de-Christianizing it; Max Horkheimer, yet another Marxist, who established the first fully functional school of anti-Western thought in Moscow; and finally, Theodor Adorno, who brought such ideas to Columbia University in the 1930's.  Buchanon sees each of these four as working in tandem first to corrupt American will through psychological condtioning, then to replace that will with a pre-programmed rejection by America's youth of their parents' social and moral beliefs that these youth increasingly came to view as racist, sexist, and homophobic.  <br />Buchanon discusses the reverberations of these four Marxists as the primary reason that America has been Hispanicized, a 'reconquest' as it were to account for the establishing of a Spanish culture as a replacement for a previously dominant Anglican one. He lashes out at leftist Democrats, who as children learned the lessons of the Gang of Four only too well, and now as adults seek to foist their views on America in the name of multiculturalism.  In \\"The War Against the Past,\\" Buchanon quotes Solzhenitzyn: 'To destroy a people, you must first sever their roots.' Buchanon's venom against feminism extends to historical revisionists who seek only \\"to drop down the 'memory hole' the patriotic stories of America's greatness and glory, and produce 'warts-and-all' histories that play up her crimes and sins, revealing what we have loved to be loathsome and those we have revered to be disreputable, even despicable.\\" (page 148)  Thus, for Buchanon, the 'Old History' of the American Revolution, Bunker Hill, and Valley Forge have been supplanted by a movement that seeks to relabel Columbus as a fifteenth century version of Hitler.  The Founding Fathers, of course, come in for similar such treatment.  Buchanon laments the loss of Washington's Day, the Declaration of Independance, school prayer, English only laws, the rights of Southern states to fly the Stars and Bars, and even rousing renditions of \\"Dixie.\\" <br />As for solutions, Buchanon offers the following: Accept that the current leftist-Democrat philosophy of trashing America should itself be trashed to be replaced by traditional values. Amend the Civil Rights Act \\"to allow employers to pay higher wages to parents than to single people.\\" (page 232)  Raise the federal tax credit for each child to $3,000.  Cut immigration to 250,000 per year.  Disallow amnesty for illegal aliens.  Deport any and all illegal aliens.  Dismember all bilingual education programs.  Deny Puerto Rico statehood.  Oppose NAFTA.  And reclassify homosexuality as a deviant, not an alternative, life style.<br />Part of the problem in making sense of Buchanon's sweeping solutions is that he sees a direct cause and effect link among the disparate historical events and people that he analyzes.  In effect, he 'connects the dots'in a manner that leaves one thinking that perhaps too many dots are now intertwined.  Yes, most Americans can see that the color of this country is changing, but perhaps many of them do not see that as a bad thing.  As a consequence of the color change, there is truly--just as Buchanon charges--a resulting culture change too.  But even there, it is arguable that not only is this not bad either, but in fact the history of the United States is based on a constant influx of new colors, cultures, ideas, and languages.  The United States has been 'invaded'many times in its 200 year history by 'tidal waves'of immigrants with funny names and slanted eyes, and in each case, the children and grandchildren of these immigrants became fluent English speakers and loyal Americans.  For those who fear that Patrick Buchanon is right about all that he says, perhaps they might wish to look for the source or their fears within their own dark souls.	2003-06-14
US	49818928	R1B2QR7H25H16W	0060514558	921401083	Let Freedom Ring: Winning the War of Liberty over Liberalism	Books	4	24	37	N	N	There is Right and Then There is Wrong	Sean Hannity makes no bones about the thrust of his LET FREEDOM RING.  His subtitle--WINNING THE WAR AGAINST LIBERTY OVER LIBERALISM--clearly indicates that there is a war to be won, but the opponents are the left-wing liberal Democrats that he sees as ruinous to the future of the United States.  Much of his book can be boiled down to the differing world views held by conservative Republicans and liberal Democrats.  Hannity describes conservatives as those who believe in moral absolutes.  There is a 'right' way to see a wide range of issues ranging from abortion to immigration to the Pledge of Allegiance.  He identifies the Democrats as moral relativists, those who refuse to take a stand on issues that our forefathers had no problem in doing.  <br />With the collapse of the Soviet Union in 1991, the primary external political danger to the United States vanished along with the fall of the Berlin Wall one year earlier.  However, Hannity rages against the Democrats who refuse to see that a new and more insidious enemy has arisen on their ashes.  This new external enemy, Hannity describes as a unconnected coalition of terrorism bulwarked by a massive wave of illegal immigration, both of which threaten our security and culture.  Hannity is further angered by left-wingers who view the demise of Communism as the end to all external threats to American security.  Democrats, he exhorts, ought to cease viewing conservative bedrock values as the new political boogeyman rather than on terrorists who wish to crash planes into American buildings.<br />Each of the chapters in LET FREEDOM RING focuses on segments of American culture that Hannity sees as endangered by Democrats.  Many of his points are valid even if he presents them as printed transcripts of his syndicated radio shows.  His style is uncluttered with obfuscation.  His political beliefs are expressed in the literary equivalent of a writing style that draws a line in the sand that separates where we are now from wherehe would like us to be.  Many of Hannity's critics use his writing style which admittedly is screechy at times as a reason to shun both his ideas and values.  But the purpose of his book was to reach out to the uncommitted Americans who do not know exactly how to relate to the events of 9/11.  <br />Specifically, Hannity wants to re-energize the CIA, the Border Patrol, and a sense of patriotism that was common during the Second World War.  He has a special loathing for moral relativists who see the Pledge of Allegiance as hollow words that point only to a racist and homophobic America.  Hannity, like other conservatives, believes that if it is permissible for other nations to proudly tout their own respective native and cultural advantages, then it cannot be wrong for America to do the same with its own brand.  It seems that only left-wingers would equate patriotism with jingoism.  Hannity makes this point as clear as anyone else.  LET FREEDOM RING is the kind of patriotic exhortation that was once popular in America and if Hannity has anything to do with it, will be so again.	2003-06-07
US	49818928	R3IHC6OIKUO0QS	0446396184	143722153	GRE: Practicing to Take the Literature in English Test, 3rd Edition	Books	3	39	42	N	N	Out of Date & Misleading	Has it ever occured to anyone seeking to improve on his chances to pass the GRE in English test that it might not be wise to trust the very people who have a vested interest in keeping your score down to maintain their hard won bell-shaped curve? First, look at the copyright of the latest 3rd edition (1996).  Between then and now the focus of the test has changed dramatically.  The testers at ETS have vastly increased the numbers of questions dealing with 20th century feminist critics while decreasing the numbers of those that deal with DWEM (Dead White European Males).  Further, the questions in the three tests that make up the text are in what I call the 'brute force' technique. Answers without explanations are provided.  You should not be so foolish as to expect to see the very same questions on the real thing.  Second, the cover touts 'Strategies and Tips From the Test Makers.'  These 'tips' are phrased so vaguely as to be useless (study hard, work as rapidly as possible, buy this book, etc).  Third, it would have been helpful if ETS had broken down the test into segments of question type.  For example, I went through the three tests in the book and identified each question as belonging to one set or type.  I found that the test consisted of previous knowledge questions (70%) and general reading comprehension (30%).  If this ratio holds for future tests (post 2002/2003), then it would be wise for test takers to study other review guides that contain this latter type. One particularly hard kind of question that was used often in the text was identifying the gammatical use (subject/object) of a targeted word.  There is no way to prepare for this except to practice.  I further found that ETS likes to use what I call 'buzz words' such that if you can associate that buzz word with its correlative (e.g. sublime = Longinus), then you can spot the correct answer immediately.  ETS said nothing about any of this.  Finally there are other prep guides that do a much betterjob.  The Princeton Review and REA are recommended.  The danger of using only a 'brute force' approach such as used in this text is that you prepare yourself supremely well to know the answers only to the questions listed. The real thing, however, is far different.<br />My recommendations:<BR>1) use the Princeton Review & REA guides<BR>2) Know the general thrusts of each period of English and<BR>   American Lit<BR>3) Study the Nortons to English & American Lit<BR>4) Use the internet to bone up on feminist critics (Irigarry,<BR>   Cixious etc)<BR>5) Memorize the beginnings and endings of novels typically <BR>   taught in novel courses<BR>6) Know the definition of a Spenserian stanza (ETS loves this <BR>   one)<br />In short, this text gives you practice only on those questions least likely to appear.  You have been warned.	2003-05-31
US	49818928	R2GTWR805GCBDA	0393323145	790320833	The Seven Daughters of Eve: The Science That Reveals Our Genetic Ancestry	Books	4	16	17	N	N	Genetics 101: Science Blends into Fiction	Bryan Sykes in THE SEVEN DAUGHTERS OF EVE tackles the ever interesting question about the origins of humanity. Where did we of the 20th Century come from? Sykes likes to use decision trees to show how one generation leads to the next. He acknowledges that since documented geneological records are notoriously unreliable, to date human evolution through the ages, a more reliable indicator was needed. In mitochondrial DNA, Sykes has found just such a barometer. Most of the early chapters are full of college level genetics that indicate that human beings can unerringly trace their lineage even over many milennia through the use of mitochondrial DNA that is passed only from mother to daughter. Sykes asserts that the majority of Europeans owe their ancestry to seven clearly identified females who lived in Europe at various times ranging from 50,000 years to 10,000 years ago. His evidence is compelling. Sykes strays from hard evidence to fiction, however, as he attempts to recreate a fanciful 'history' for each woman whom he assigns names like Ursula, Helena, and Katrine. These stories are nonsense, of course, and detract from his core thesis. Yet, his masterful explanation of the mechanics of DNA, while occasionally dragging, still point out that the physical differences between human beings are to be seen as more falsely dramatic than truly individuating. Sykes suggests that we today who are the descendants of these Eves ought to acknowledge our kinships rather than squabble over our dissimilarities.	2003-05-24
US	49818928	R28LUGQE1G64GC	0312304005	507818134	Before the Flood: The Biblical Flood as a Real Event and How It Changed the Course of Civilization	Books	3	16	21	N	N	Noah's Flood: Still Unconfirmed	Biblical scholars have been trying for centuries to prove--or to disprove the events of the Old Testament.  Most of these events are especially tricky to validate since the evidence needed to point in one way or another most often rested on biblical exegesis and archeology rather than on geology.  The biblical flood is the exception.  The vestiges of a world wide flood are easier to identify. Ian Wilson in BEFORE THE FLOOD argues that the flood of Noah was not a world flooding event as depicted in the Old Testament.  Rather, he sees the flooding as limited to the cradle of civilization, the holy lands north of Turkey in what is now known as the Black Sea.  Wilson describes a pre-flood world that had recently emerged into a warming trend, ending millenia of ice-age growth.  As the earth's temperature gradually rose, the ice caps correspondingly melted with localized flooding.  However, in the Mediterrranean Sea, this increase in volume undermined the barrier that separated the saline Mediterranean from the fresh water Black Sea.  Eventually, a crush point was reached and the barrier between the two seas burst with the vastly larger salt water of the former pouring into the Black Sea.  So far, so good.  Wilson was not the first to suggest this, but to his credit, he presents as evidence radio-carbon dating of samples of molluscs that had died en masse.  Studies of these molluscs indicate that they had died suddenly and over widely scattering areas, an event that could be explained only if the salinity of the Black Sea had abruptly been altered toward heightened salinity.  He estimates that the collapse of the barrier released more than 200 times the flow of water that daily passes down Niagara Falls.  Anyone unlucky enough to have been anywhere nearby would surely not have had enough time to board a ship, let enough time to build one.  This 'burst through' hypothesis occupies the first third of Wilson's book, and is convincing.  The remaining two thirds is limited toarcheological and mythical evidence, and is thus less compelling.  In fact, it becomes a chore to read assorted and lengthy historical, biblical, and mythological exegeses, none of which approaches the hard evidence of the mollusc extinction.  Wilson's core thesis is, therefore, more suggested rather than nailed down.  Circumstantial evidence of past historical events is not unlike the validity of such evidence in our courts.  They point the way towards the prosecution's case, but lacking hard evidence, a tricky defense lawyer can usually suggest an alternate explanation.	2003-05-24
US	49818928	R6DVAUFUZ4AYK	1400046610	957571830	Slander: Liberal Lies About the American Right	Books	4	64	110	N	N	Right vs Left: SLANDER by KO	Ever since the Kennedy years, both conservative and liberals have been accusing each other of the very worst sort of demagoguery.  The conservative right claims that the media is slanted against it while the liberal left says much the same.  Out of all the recent books that deal with the issue of media domination, the ones that are the most convincing are written by conservatives, with SLANDER by Ann Coulter leading the way.  Her thesis differs from Bernard Goldberg's BIAS who similarly claims a media slant tilted against the right.  Goldberg describes a left wing mentality that does not view conservatism as a deliberate target of invective; rather, he sees the left as those who are indecently sure that theirs is the only political philosophy worth a red penny and that there is no need to create a cabal against a rightist viewpoint that simply does not exist as a mainsream mode of thought.  Coulter takes a harsher interpretation.  She asserts that the bias is real, it is deliberate, and it is meant to hurt.  <br />Whenever any writer attempts to convince the reader of a media bias, it is incumbent on that writer to present a series of convincing arguments that are not taken out of context and are thoroughly documented.  This Ann Coulter has done beyond question.  She lists dozens of examples that illustrate that not only does the left engage in the very same invidious activities of which it accuses the right, but when confronted with proof positive that it has done so, it invariably lies, changes the topic, or simply ignores the incriminating evidence of its own culpability.  When Michael Bellesiles wrote ARMING AMERICA, a book that was supposed to prove that our founding fathers were not as heavily armed as the NRA insisted they were, the liberal press, headed by The New York Times, hailed Bellesiles as one who 'has dispersed the darkness that covered the gun's early history in America.'  And if our colonial forebears were not so fortified with guns, then the NRA could not claim history as a justification for the current ownership of guns.  Unfortunately for Bellesiles and The New York Times, several scholars who tried to duplicate his research discovered that Bellesiles had faked and forged nearly every bit of evidence.  And just how loudly did the liberal media trumpet Bellesiles' plagiarism?  Not a peep was heard.  Can you imagine if the reverse had happened and the Times had caught a conservative scholar playing footsie with history?<br />What makes Coulter's arguments so convincing is that she documents her claims with hundreds of footnotes, none of which have been disproven by the left.  The unalterable conclusion of her book is that the liberal left is indeed as biased as she claims.  The next time a democrat accuses a republican of being dumb, racist, homophobic, or a member of the religious right, I would ask that democrat for the same proof that Coulter would use to prove the contrary.  I don't think that this democrat could do that, and this is why SLANDER is the stunning book that it is and why it should be read by anyone who has an interest in knowing to what our nation's media bias is.	2003-05-17
US	49818928	RTKHXA5PIAYJZ	0785263535	779051969	The Savage Nation: Saving America from the Liberal Assault on Our Borders, Language and Culture	Books	3	4	10	N	N	Everyone Is A Savage:Even Those Who Agree With Him	Michael Savage has been a radio talk show host for several years.  His core values are bedrock conservatism. He loudly rails against those elements of the United States most often associated with liberal left-wingers.  His style is confrontational, insulting, and entertaining.  His SAVAGE NATION reads like an extended printed version of THE BEST OF SAVAGE ON RADIO.  If you have never heard Michael Savage on the air and then open this book, be prepared for a non-stop assault on liberalism.  It is almost not to the point that Savage might have formulated his ideas in a more intellectual, less abrasive tone.  Other conservative writers--Ann Coulter, who has much the same to say--have expressed their viewpoints in a way that is frankly less scary, and ultimately more convincing.  As I read THE SAVAGE NATION,I wondered who the target audience was.  If it were those who already agree with him, then this group might loudly approve the content even if quibbling about the strident tone.  If it were those who had not yet made up their minds whether the United States is fast dropping down into an liberal Alice In Wonderland sewer, then the number of those who tend to agree with him would be a function of those who could separate the truths of his anti-liberalism from the harshness of his invective that lashes out at that same anti-liberalism. And if those who read THE SAVAGE NATION see themselves squarely aligned with left-wingism, then Savage's brute force tone is not likely to convince.  <br />Savage's essential plank is that this country has been threatened by a political correctness that has been running amuck ever since the hippie days of the 60s.  He lashes out at pot, abortion, the ACLU, PETA, unchecked immigration, and pornography.  His insults his opponents;his favorite epithet is 'moron.'  He punningly alters names to put down:  Pillory Clinton, Al Gorleone, Jesse Hijackson, just to name a few.  He states that he gives a 'fact' and then does not provide footnotes, forcing the reader to take his word for it.  The utter tragedy of Michael Savage is that he does not recognize the difference between the media of radio and that of books.  That which makes for entertaining listening in the former instead results is dismissal in the latter.  Most people prefer to read a book at their leisure so they can chew over its contents in an informed and deliberate manner.  You may have thought from my review that I am one of those liberals whom Savage bashes.  Actually, I agree with many of his points, and I am a regular listener to his radio show. Yet, I feel a sense of loss that the bombastic words of Michael Savage turned off rather than turned on a new generation of readers who have not yet learned how to differentiate style from substance.	2003-05-11
US	49818928	RCZUN3C30CJEC	0802130127	177081917	The 120 Days of Sodom and Other Writings	Books	3	15	18	N	N	DeSade and the Metaphor of Closed in Spaces	It has never been an easy task to approach DeSade and make intelligent analyses of him. His very subject matter has for centuries caused serious students of literature and philosophy to relegate him to the hinterlands of social and moral acceptability. There are those even today who wish to present him as a man whose moral message--however disgusting--deserves the kind of appraisal given to more mainstream writers. I have read JUSTINE, JULIETTE, and 120 DAYS OF SODOM--no easy task there--and I have concluded that his appeal lies primarily in those who wish to peek under the blanket of the usual norms of most societies to expose the darker side that surely inhabits the souls of those who already are likely to wish to plow through the thousands of pages of tortured prose that mirrors the tortured ideas therein. In other words, in a free society such as ours, writers ought to feel free to indulge their demented fantasies while being secure in the knowledge that most readers have neither the time, inclination, nor patience to visit a world that is an anti-life as any ever written about.<br />Those who know of DeSade only by reputation are only vaguely aware that his interests are thoroughly grounded in areas of sexual perversion and torture that have led to his name being held synonymous with the wish to maim, torment, and disgust. For those who have actually gone to the trouble to read his works and are familiar with the general tools of literary criticism, such readers soon enough recognize that his literary impact rests primarily on just the three works listed above. In each of these three, DeSade posits a universe of closed in spaces. Most often, the protagonist is one who is powerful, wealthy, dissolute, and eager to convince his unwilling victims--usually young females--that the God of the Bible and the benevolent Nature of Wordsworth is a fiction created by blind and cowardly writers who refuse to see that life is Darwinian to the extreme. All that matters, his protagonists urge relentlessly, is that life belongs to the strong and the only way to justify the existence of the strong is to prey on the weak. Much of this line of reasoning sounds suspiciously like the extended monologue that George Orwell put into the mouths of victim Winston Smith and torturer O'Brien in 1984. O'Brien's comment to Smith that the future of the human race could be seen as a boot stamping forever on a human face is one that DeSade might have heartily agreed with. In order for DeSade's various dissolute priest/noblemen/merchants to carry out their respective debaucheries, they must first have a place of safety. These places of safety are most often underground, in cavernous dungeons of churches or brothels. The victims are usually kidnap victims as in JUSTINE or prostitutes held in bondage as in 120 DAYS OF SODOM. It is only in closed in boxes that DeSade's protagonists feel safe enough not only to carry out their deeds unseen but these boxes also give them a forum to fulminate against a benevolent God/Nature that does no more than to ensure a steady supply of helpless women whose only purpose in life is to justify the unlimited power of those who can exercise that power only in the limited confines of those walled-off dungeons. <br />As for what goes on in those closed in spaces, one finds--at least in 120 DAYS OF SODOM--not so much a standard novel of plot, character, theme, and setting, but rather a cataloging of a greviously long list of sin and evil. The list of both tormentor and victim is so depressingly long that one has trouble keeping straight who is doing what to whom. Instead, what the reader finds is a nameless and nearly faceless catalog of willing and unwilling participants. The evil that DeSade holds up as inverted good has no lasting impact on tormentor, victim, or reader. Victims are subject to horrendous bouts of necrophilia, coprophilia, sodomy, and cannibalism to such as extent that the ripples that ought to appear in the stream of an outraged consciousness are somehow muted. And that perhaps is the inner meaning of most of DeSade's thought. Evil and horror are such commonplaces in his inverted cosmos that those who are truly kind and decent are forced to see themselves as does Winston Smith in 1984: as one who is the last and dying remnant of his species. The world must then belong to those who trump the virtues of anti-life. That I can today even question whether DeSade has won out indicates that he has not.	2003-04-08
US	49818928	R3EX8U5Q10OGSV	0765300982	53158574	The Consciousness Plague	Books	2	1	2	N	N	A Plague that Fails to Engage	American readers have always had a fondness for thrillers that involve a conspiratorial or historical basis: tales such as intelligent werewolves eating humanity from the dawn of history (WOLFEN) to a secret cabal that has directed world events for centuries (CAPTAINS AND KINGS).  Now Paul Levinson gives us a world that has suffered from incipient bouts of recurrent  amnesia that have caused the decline of civilizations ranging from the Phoenicians to the Mayans to the current day.  In THE CONSCIOUNESS PLAGUE, the hero is NYPD forensic expert Phil D'Amato, who is trying to solve a series of killings of women while at the same time uncovering the threads of memory loss that happen to nearly everyone in his life.  Now there is nothing wrong with either plot device, but the problem with THE CONSCIOUSNESS PLAGUE is that author Levinson places the dramatic center of his book on the killings but seems to have no logical place to hang his peg of worldwide collective amnesia.  Had Levinson stuck to using D'Amato's considerable forensic skills to catch the killer, then he would have written a conventional detective novel.  However, even on that level, the interaction between his hero D'Amato and the victims and killer are forced, laborious, and unthrilling.  It was painful for me to see how Levinson attempts to meld his paper-thin detective plot with a subplot that simply cried out for more screen time.  If this world has been afflicted with recurring bouts of mass amnesia, then I would expect a plot to more seamlessly integrate this memory loss with the other plot elements.  No more than a few dozen pages were devoted in a serious way to extended discussions of memory loss.  Further, Levinson's prose style is all too reminiscent of the kind which forces all but the most dedicated of readers to skim pointless discussions to get to the parts where some really interesting things happen.  In THE CONSCIOUSNESS PLAGUE, the really interesting things were few and far between.  Based on the advertising blurbs, I expected a book about some earthshaking revelations about humanity's collective history that would be revealed by a subplot of murder and mayhem.  What I got was the reverse, and that is why I do not recommend this book.	2003-03-22
US	49818928	R3CVP88OB4GPTT	0879388013	581082707	An Illustrated History of the Gestapo	Books	4	5	6	N	N	The Banality of Evil	Throughout recorded history, all totalitarian regimes have needed their secret police to do their dirty work.  The Catholic Church had its Inquisition in the Middle Ages, the Russian Communists had their NKVD/KGB during the mid-twentieth century, and the German Nazis had theirs in the Geheime Staatz Poliezi, the Gestapo.  In AN ILLUSTRATED HISTORY OF THE GESTAPO, Rupert Butler provides both text and visuals to trace the evolution of a state sanctioned thuggery that was supposed to safeguard the existence of a thousand year Reich, that mercifully went out of business after only 12 years.  <br />After the end of the Great War in 1918,Germany was a beaten nation that nevertheless did not learn that brute aggression must one day cause a bitter price to be paid.  Butler suggests that an organization like the Nazi party could never have been allowed to exist were it not for both the political myopia of the victors who insisted on crushing a fragile post-war German economy with heavy reparations and a widespread tendency for an entire nation of Germans to rally around a flag that placed anti-semitism as its motivating force in re-establishing itself as a conquering world power.  <br />To those not familiar with the overlapping structures of the Nazi party, Butler delineates how the Gestapo, the SA, the SS, the SD, and the many branches of the police all interwove to keep a tight lid on the lives of every German and every conquered national.  Butler describes the early years of the formation of the Gestapo with Heinrich Himmler at the center.  Then he analyzes how the other security organs like the SS and SD sometimes co-operated, sometimes competed for dominance.  The infamous names of the leaders are, of course, well-documented both in this book, and in others: Goering, Heydrich, Kaltenbrunner, Borman, Goebbels.  What stands out in Butler's mind is the ordinariness of most of the top echelon of the Nazi hierarchy.  Most of them, before they became power players, had quiteordinary lives.  Himmler himself looked like the pale shopkeeper that he was before he entered the SS.  Heydrich was a womanizer who entered the SS only to avoid a scandal.  The destruction that the various organs of the Nazi security apparatus were to wreak on both Jew and Slav were largely the result of weak, dull, and drab individuals who prefered to give their orders of death and genocide to a set of truly vicious underlings who were only to glad to carry them out. The world rarely gets a chance to put the originators of genocide in a docket of law to be charged as criminals, but in 1946 in Nuremberg, the collective leadership of the Nazi dream of world conquest was called to account.  During their trials, their very ordinariness underscored the true nature of evil.  The Gestapo, as the epitome of evil and horror, was run at the top by men who saw their lives through the eyes as the miserable low-ranking bureaucrats that they were once, and claimed to be as their defense from that docket.  The dough-faced prisoners sitting in that Nuremberg court in 1946 were living reminders that evil can be spectacularly ordinary.  Butler's book says that about as well as anyone can.	2003-03-16
US	49818928	R2JVCB0BUDL8AV	0802132189	415743636	Justine, Philosophy in the Bedroom, and Other Writings	Books	4	62	67	N	N	JUSTINE: The Amoral Morality Play	When the Marquis de Sade was locked up in the Bastille for various crimes that ranged from sexual abuse of prostitutes to flagellation of young boys, he found that he had the time to write at length in novel form a series of books that have come to stand for his belief in the utter joy of inflicting pain on the virtuous: sadism. For the next few centuries, philosophers and literary critics have debated whether his works deserve the attention normally given to serious works of literature or whether they are simply the ravings of a mind unhinged.  There is a current trend to rehabilitate his reputation, a trend which includes analysing his canon with the same set of standard literary tools that are used on mainstream authors.<br />The reader new to de Sade might well wish to begin with JUSTINE.  It is here that he delineates a world that is composed of two categories of people: those of vice and those of virtue.  With the former, de Sade presents a very nearly exclusive male dominant protagonist, one who is wealthy, middle-aged, possessed of a castle or subterranean dungeon, and has a proclivity to speak at great length on the superiority of vice over virtue.  With the latter, De Sade, as he does in JUSTINE, gives the reader a young, well-shaped, nearly indestructable female whose sole purpose is to suffer a non-stop series of assaults both on her body and to her mind.  Each assault is a carbon copy of its predecessor.  Justine (called Therese) is kidnapped or tricked into entering the lair of a rich and dissolute monk or nobleman who promptly lectures Justine/Therese on the inevitable triumph of Vice over a feckless Virtue.  Each time this Vice figure rapes and sodomizes Justine, he tells her, \\"You see, my dear? If there were truly a virtuous God watching over innocent lambs like you, then I would surely be struck down by a bolt of lightning.\\"  Typically, Justine's only reply is, \\"But Moniseur, surely you can allow your hard heart to be softened by my plight.\\"  As if to punctuate the superiority of his position over Justine's, her tormentor simply increases the pace of his ravagings.<br />What becomes clear well before the half way point is that both the tormentor and his victim are allegorical stick figures from the morality plays with which de Sade was undoubtedly quite familiar.  And just as those figures of morality from the Middle Ages were sure to point to a victory of virtue over vice, de Sade was determined to reverse the results.  JUSTINE, as well as his later JULIETTE and 120 DAYS OF SODOM, all point to the same nihilistic end; either there is no God or what is worse, there is one but this deity has so arranged his cosmos that the universal deck is stacked against those who seek to live the good and pure life.  Today, as the modern reader plows through the thousands of pages of de Sades' canon, that reader will find that the real titillation lies not in the finite ways that a female body can be corrupted but rather in the more nearly infinite ways that this corruption can be justified.  Few writers have made this point more clearly--or more horribly--than de Sade.to punctuate the superiority of his position over Justine's, her tormentor simply increases the pace of his ravagings.  <br />What becomes clear well before the half way point is that both the tormentor and his victim are allegorical stick figures from the morality plays with which de Sade was undoubtedly quite familiar.  And just as those figures of morality from the Middle Ages were sure to point to a victory of virtue over vice, de Sade was determined to reverse the results.  JUSTINE, as well as his later JULIETTE and 120 DAYS OF SODOM, all point to the same nihilistic end; either there is no God or what is worse, there is one but this deity has so arranged his cosmos that the universal deck is stacked against those who seek to live the good and pure life.  Today, as the modern reader plows through the thousands of pages of de Sades' canon, that reader will find that the real titillation lies not in the finite ways that a female body can be corrupted but rather in the more nearly infinite ways that this corruption can be justified.  Few writers have made this point more clearly--or more horribly--than de Sade.	2003-02-16
US	49818928	R2CO1UI5W6VFV9	184068044X	756651018	Tokyo Sex Underground	Books	3	19	22	N	N	The Medium is the Message	Those who purchased TOKYO SEX UNDERGROUND by Romaine Slocumbe probably expected a titillating photo expose of the raunchy side of Tokyo at night.  The majority of the reviewers listed above were clearly disappointed by what was admittedly a grainy set of pictures of women who seemed unwilling or unhappy about being included.  The reviewer for Amazon.Com called this book 'stunning.'  Stunning is not the right word although I saw a running theme that the other reviewers may have overlooked.  What I did see was not porn although some of the women were porn actresses.  The collective image that built over over the course of the pictures was one of sadness and distress.  The smiling colorful face of the model on the front cover was obviously a marketing ploy, and I realized that even before I bought it.  What interested me was a call for help that I could sense from nearly each woman.  The harsh nightlife of Tokyo sex women can not be materially different from women employed in any other sex capital of the world.  The stereotyped image of prostitutes as glamorous comes mostly from Hollywood sanitized versions of celluloid hookers like Julia Roberts.  The women in this book truly were pretty women, but they were sadfaced women too.  The scarcity of accompanying text accentuated rather than hid this subtext of women caught in forces beyond their ken.  It is not likely that any reader seeking arousal will find such feelings here.  What he might find instead is the more sobering realization that the sex industry is shiny only on the exterior, and even then the grim faces of the women pictured give the lie to that canard as well.	2003-02-08
US	49818928	RSCJFFQ392P5F	0895261901	148709607	Bias: A CBS Insider Exposes How the Media Distort the News	Books	5	10	15	N	N	BIAS: What If Goldberg is even Remotely Right?	One of the most influential and provocative books of the last decade is Bernard Goldberg's BIAS.  Goldberg's thesis is that the television and newspaper media in this country have long had a bias toward liberalism and against conservatism.  Although I consider myself a reasonably well-informed citizen, I had not given this issue too much consideration--at least until I read this book.  I am now convinced that there is more than a grain of truth in his accusations against the liberal left headed by CBS News in general and Dan Rather in particular.   As I read BIAS, I could see that Goldberg was a man of conscience who for most of his broadcasting career had been allied with the very ones he now criticizes. Goldberg is careful not to accuse the liberal left of being a consciously directed cabal of plotters who seek to knowingly advance their cause at the expense of another.  Instead, he notes that their slant on the news in entirely unconscious and is based on their collective liberal worldview that they do not see as a political leaning at all.  Rather, they see liberalism as mainstream American thought, thus not needing any qualifying adjectives as 'liberal' to tag a left thought.  Goldberg notes that any significant conservative politician or proposed legislation is almost always tagged by the left as 'conservative' in order to mark that politician or legislation as somehow being out of step with mainsteam (liberal) thought.  These are troubling ideas since Americans need to be reassured that what they see and hear from the mass media is even-handed in the presentation of major issues.  <br />Goldberg indicts the liberal left media with analyses of how CBS and the New York Times is hugely influential in shaping how America perceives key issues. He notes, among others: Dan Rather's willingness to squash dissent within his own ranks; the disappearance of homelessness under Clinton and its concommitant reappearance under Reagan; the AIDS crisis being falsely trumpetedas breaking out into liberal America as a heterosexual epidemic.  One of his most telling points was Goldberg's mention of a Palestinian song called &quot;I Hate Israel.&quot; I had never heard of it before nor had I even heard of any reporting in this country about it.  Unwilling to take Goldberg's word for it, I went online and sure enough I discovered that in 2001 &quot;I Hate Israel&quot; had been a hugely popular anti-Israel and anti-semetic pop tune in the Arab world.  Goldberg suggests that the reason &quot;I Hate Israel&quot; received no play in this country is that the liberal media did not want to offend a group of minorities (Arabs and Arab Americans) who might otherwise be inclined to view any attacks on this song as anti-Arab or worse, pro Israel. <br />It is easy for the reader to brush off such conspiratorial works as BIAS as the ravings of one who was fired and wishes only to get back at his ex-bosses.  But what emerges after reading it is that I now feel constrained to watch the nightly news more critically.  The next time I hear the Dan refer to politician &quot;x&quot; as conservative, then I might wonder why he does not return the favor with a similar tag of liberal for candidate &quot;y.&quot;	2003-02-08
US	49818928	R3DJ4DCAEEMPP4	0867194731	865284607	"Hello My Big Big Honey!" Love Letters to Bangkok Bar Girls and Their Revealing Interviews	Books	3	43	46	N	N	The Focus is more on the Men than the Women	Ever since Thailand became known as the newest and best sin city for foreign men to visit to have sex with impoverished yet attractive Thai women, a deluge of these men land daily at Thai airports expecting to find the romance and lust often denied them in their home lands. What these men usually discover is that any romance that develops is based on a pay as you go basis.  In HELLO MY BIG HONEY, Dave Walker and Richard Ehrlich try to explain why.  The authors see the Bangkok sex scene as the natural outcropping of a degraded culture that has only its women to peddle.  In such a lurid, transient environment, the focus of money for sex must be limited to the here and now.  Any foreign man with even a minimum of sense and dollars can surely score in any of dozens of sleazy clip joints.  In a series of interviews with bargirls, hookers, and transsexuals, Walker and Ehrlich clarify to the next deluge of incoming men that these are working girls, all of whom count the success of a relationship in the minutes spent to earn those western dollars. It is hardly the fault of these Thai women if they soon realize that calling their newest boyfriend 'Big Honey' and other such of similar ilk can only gratify him into spending more money on her (and her family)or--and this is what each Thai lady dreams of--finding a western man thinking that he will 'deliver' her from a life of vice by taking her back to his country for marriage.  In this latter case, the man will certainly send money to her on a regular basis, with her promising all the while that she will be loyal in return. The letters that these men write back and forth reveal a breathtaking lack of brains that they, with all their degrees, find out later that these women were always one step ahead.  In defense of the men who are surrounded by willing, attractive Thai ladies who offer themselves at what to these men seem like bargain prices, it is not difficult to overlook the more obvious and higher bill that is sure to be presented later.	2003-02-08
US	49818928	R2DM3O2KMEXGAP	0304351997	614890686	Cassell Military Classics: Das Reich: The Military Role of the 2nd SS Division	Books	3	10	27	N	N	To Judge Evil, One Must First Label It as Evil	The fighting arm of the SS, the Waffen SS, were really no more than a microcosm of the Nazi state itself.  Under Adolf Hitler, the entire military, political, economic, and philosophical underpinning of his warped National Socialistic viewpoint was dedicated to world conquest and racial cleansing.  The regular German Army units, the Wehrmacht, were given the majority of the responsibility for the first, but Hitler assigned the second to his more trusted arm, the Waffen SS.  In DAS REICH, James Lucas chronicles the rise and fall of one of Hitler's most infamous units, the 2nd SS, known as 'Das Reich.' Since the end of the war, historians have had some moral and ethical difficulties in evaluating and judging the phenomenon that was an inextricable part of the Nazi machinery that led to the deaths of millions of innocent non-combatants.  Lucas addresses this difficulty in his preface as he notes: \\"To present an objective history of an SS division attracted violent criticism because the general public accepted, without question, that the whole SS organization was criminal and, thus by inference, each man who had served in it was a felon.\\"  Not only does Lucas attack the view that the public ought to evaluate the Waffen SS as a military collection of felons, he defends it on the grounds of its fighting prowess.  Lucas notes that 'the physical, mental, and moral standards were set so high that only a minority of those who volunteered were accepted.' It is difficult for the reader to accept such indirect praise without a numbing sense of disbelief.  If the moral bar for each potential SS recruit were so high, then I would like to know what scale Lucas used to establish who got in and who did not.  Reichsfuhrer of the SS, Heinrich Himmler, made it crystal clear that the entire apparatus of the SS was set to match the racial theories of Hitler.  Any recruit who did not see eye to eye with that would not have been given a chance to prove his combat readiness in the first place.<br />'Das Reich' was actually quite similar to other well-known SS regiments: 'Leibstandardt,'  'Totenkampf,' and 'Germania.' No one questions, and I certainly do not contest that any Waffen SS division was not a formidable fighting force.  For Hitler, and presumably for Lucas as well, such prowess was in and of itself quite sufficient to justify its existence and excuse its excesses during the Second World War.  Such excesses can easily be buried under a mountain of charts, interviews, and statistics that inevitably accompany any major battle.  In Lucas' first chapter, 'The Campaign in Poland,' he presents a side of the campaign that might have been written by Reich Propaganda Minister Joseph Goebbels.  The attacking SS forces are described as heroically 'exposing themselve to a Polish fire which struck them as soon as they began their uphill advance.'  What emerges from this account is a story that is only partly told.  Nowhere in this book, does Lucas address the troubling and thoroughly documented evidence that all arms of the SS were involved in the genocide that we now call the Holocaust.  Lucas' ommissions are breathtaking: the Blitzkrieg, the camps, the bloody slaughters in Poland and Russia, the Malmedy Massacre in France.  To a new generation that sees such a blackbooted organization as 'Das Reich' only in the glowing terms that Lucas presents, then the generation following that generation may retrod down a bitter path that ought never have been visited in the first place.	2003-01-20
US	49818928	RVA5DXGZRDRNA	0553207482	244426828	Enemy at the Gates: The Battle for Stalingrad	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Stalingrad: 'A Corpse Every Minute'	Stalingard was the site for the turning point on the Eastern front.  Hitler's Wehrmacht attack on Russia in 1941 was initially so successful that it might have been set on cruise control.  The Nazi armies gained huge masses of territory in a very short time, while chopping to pieces ever Russian army in its path.  By the time the Germans reached the gates of Moscow and Stalingrad in early fall of 1941, the situation for Russia was grim.  Stalin's losses were incomprehensibly vast.  In the space of four months, he had casualties of more than a million killed, wounded, or POW.  His airforce had been chased from the skies.  For the first time in his career, he must have felt personally threatened.  It is at this point that William Craig in ENEMY AT THE GATES analyzes how close Russia came to being swept away in the Nazi whirlwind.  Craig notes there were several factors that turned the tide in Stalin's favor.<br />1) Hitler's faulty generalship.  There were several occasions that the German Sixth Army could have saved itself by retreating from Stalingrad.  In each case, Hitler refused permission, despite the collective wisdom of his High Command that wished to.<br />2) Stalin's brute nature.  Craig pictures a totally ruthless and amoral leader who orders his NKVD thugs to summarily execute any soldier, reardless of rank, who retreats.  Further, Craig shows a man who cares not a fig for truly monstrous losses so long as the battle is won.<br />3) The immensity that is Russia.  Russia was then one of the largest land masses on earth and had a population several times that of Germany's.  Stalin could afford to lose three soldiers for each German and still win.<br />4) The weather.  By great bad luck, Hitler chose to attack Russia during the worst winter in generations.  The freezing weather completely ground to a halt the German advance.<br />Craig writes in a style that is breezy and easy to read, even for the historical layman.  He punctuates many points by judicious use of interviews, although I wonder how he managed to gain access to such verbatim quotes.  The picture of a collapsing German front slowly evolves such that the destruction of a German Army in the Russian snow of 1942 foreshadows the coming destruction of the Nazi state in 1945.  This book is well worth the reading for those who wish to know more about one of the world's military pivitol points.	2003-01-20
US	49818928	R2P1V4E3C8BFEK	0553279378	146946583	I Know Why the Caged Bird Sings	Books	5	20	21	N	N	Caged Bird: From Fear to Freedom	Maya Angelou was born into a society that was as rigidly stratified as any other in the world.  Sometimes this stratification is based on religion, or on ethnic caste, or as in the United States, on skin color.  What most often happens is that the favored color takes certain things for granted: upward mobility is within reach, respect is expected, and laws are meant for all (of that color).  The subordinate color learns the inverse.  In I KNOW WHY THE CAGED BIRD SINGS, Maya, as a child, learns all that plus she conspires against herself and her color.  She sees whiteness as a desirable trait, blackness as not.  In fact, her early life in Stamps is one prolonged immersion in what she terms a 'black ugly dream.'  To compound her dilemma, she faces gender discrimination.  Boys on the black pecking order occupy a rung higher.  Yet despite all this, Maya even manages to overcome the trauma of rape at the age of eight from a trusted family friend.  What Maya takes out of this act of violation is her realization that the ogre of life can be shut down if she learns to shut herself down.  For months afterwards, she is deliberately mute.  Her silence screams volumes while her soul decides how to heal itself.  Eventually, Maya finds solace in the way that all trod on underdogs do: by self-betterment.  With the help of her brother Bailey and god-fearing family, Maya discovers that the key to her rebirth lies first in books, then later in extracting nuggets of wisdom from those books which she can apply to her life.  <br />The careful reader will surely note that even the very young Maya is exceptionally erudite and glib.  This is more a function of the adult Maya structuring her memories enriched with a lifetime of learning from those memories than it is of a precocious child.  The grown woman Maya Angelou is a superb writer who uses the traditional devices of figurative language, a sense of the power of the spoken word, and a wide ranging use of symbols, all of which add up toa story that never palls or drags.  By the time the reader gets to the end, this reader can see that the journey of a little girl who made the rounds of a short life of physical and emotional bounces has learned from a book what that girl so painfully endured: that freedom can only be achieved if fear is first confronted then beaten down.	2003-01-18
US	49818928	R356WF4O0O94SR	0375508430	88544726	The Lessons of Terror: A History of Warfare Against Civilians: Why It Has Always Failed and Why It Will Fail Again	Books	4	5	7	N	N	A Lesson that Needs to be Taught Better	Terror and its consequences have always bubbled near the surface of our collective consciousness, but it took the events of 9/11 to make us view terror as openly as had the Israelis since 1948.  As the Saudi-guided jets crashed into the World Trade Center, Americans instantly began to perceive the nature of the menace that had previously lain dormant in what was supposed to be the only country on earth free of such concerns. In THE LESSONS OF HISTORY, Caleb Carr disabuses the reader of the seeming sanctuary that he surely must have felt solely by virtue of his being an American.  Carr sees the current emphasis on combatting terrorism as far more than the radical Islamic tint that has commonly if not incorrectly been associated with it.  Carr's thesis is that terrorism has been an enduring part of hostilities ever since combatants first began to toss rocks at one another.  He begins with a chronological sweep of terrorism, beginning with the Roman destruction of Carthage, and continuing with analyses of how future emprire-states used state-sponsored terrorism as the means to defeat opponents who may or may not have themselves been using it.  Carr suggests that terrorism is not only ineffective in the short run in that it does not even accomplish its stated goals, but that it is also ruinously counterproductive in the long run in that those nations who inflict terror on others inevitably find that they are subject to worse terrorism in the future.  Thus, terrorism as an adjunct to more traditional war-making activities has always failed and will continue to fail.  I have no problem accepting this basic premise, but the manner in which he states his case makes his thesis less convincing than it might otherwise have been.  To begin with, the brevity of his book (256 pages) does not allow him sufficient space to give each example of failed historical terrorism the consideration it needs.  What Carr does it to give his topic an overly superficial once over.  War is so inherently chaotic and the distinctions between accepted battle between uniformed combatants and irregular terrorists who mask their terrorism under the banner of freedom fighters is often so fuzzy that the reader needs more than Carr's undocumented say so that Franklin Roosevelt's and later Harry Truman's decision to put Hiroshima and Nagasaki to the nuclear torch was clear 'evidence of the self-perpetuating vengeful nature of terror.' (page 181) Further muddying the issue was his cultural bias against the French, the English, and the United States in what he sees as their long-standing propensity to use terror as a means to wage war.  Carr shows an unabashed admiration for Ho Chi Minh and Mao Ze Dung's waging of a guerrila warfare that somehow never crossed the line between legitimate acts of insurgency and illegitimate acts of self-serving terrorism. Carr's basic thrust, however, is clear, even if I disagree with his presentation.  The United States had better learn to refrain from lashing out at a largely civilian sector in any future wars, for if American military might is used to send a message to those civilians of a hostile power, then that message might be far different from the one intended.	2003-01-12
US	49818928	R2MW9XZH6RS5I7	1559703725	844006871	Patpong Sisters: An American Woman's View of the Bangkok Sex World	Books	3	8	16	N	N	Why are the Patpong Women Sisters? Odzer Never Says	The sex industry has transformed Thailand from a poor nation with little to recommend it but its native culture to a nation that is still poor but now generates some much needed hard cash from its exploitation of women as prostitutes.  Beginning with the mid 50's, Thailand has developed a reputation as the place where foreign men (often western and Japanese) called derisively 'farangs' go to have cheap sex with impoverished but attractive Thai women. In PATPONG SISTERS, Cleo Odzer tries to put into perspective how this sex business began, why it is still going strong, and what changes Thailand has undergone as a result.  This book is not meant as a serious analysis of a unique sociological phenomenon, even though Odzer declares that it served as her doctoral thesis at Harvard.  Nor is it meant as a prurient peek up the miniskirt of the dozens of Thai women whom she interviewed.  Rather, what emerges is a light-hearted attempt to focus on the erosion of a culture that proved incapable of withstanding the chaos of a testosterone driven invasion on a peaceful country that at one time prized the virtue of its women.  <br />Part of the problem that I had with accepting Odzer's purported attempt at academic objectivity is that she comes off as not much different from the ... men who descend on Patpong determined to leave a wave of broken hearts and bruised bodies in their wake.  To begin with, she enters the country under false pretenses.  She justifies her lack of honesty by rationalizing that had she been upfront with her wish to write a tell all expose, she would not then have been granted a visa.  Yet, she must have known that this initial deceit would forever taint the results of her study, however valid they might otherwise have been.  Further, she strikes up a sexual relation with a Thai man, supposedly to gain insight into the Thai culture.  Imagine if Odzer had been a man trying to write a similar such book and he began sleeping with the very women he was interviewing.  PATPONG SISTERS still has importance for the western reader who wishes to understand the reasons for the degradation of a culture that once was steeped in honorable tradition but now seems indistinguishable from the fleshpot streets of the seediest ports of any redlight district that depends on ... men to infuse dollars into an economy that is forced to accept those dollars with one hand while raising the miniskirts of its desperate women with the other.  The AIDS epidemic that is now ravaging Thailand stands as a cold shower wakeup call that perhaps it is time to lower those skirts even if in so doing the influx of Yankee dollars is also lowered.	2003-01-12
US	49818928	R39F9R2ZS8LXAD	0743406427	926743636	The Star Trek: The Original Series: The Eugenics Wars #1: The Rise and Fall of Khan Noonien Singh	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Khan: Strong Story Hurt by Multiple Points of View	I suspect that the majority of readers of Star Trek are also inveterate fans of both the various incarnations of the original series and the movie sequels.  It is no surprise, then, that Star Trek novels, while containing the standard plot devices of all novels, also feature a myriad of allusions to episodes from the moving screen.  In THE EUGENICS WARS (volume one), author Greg Cox brings back one of the most celebrated cinematic villains of all time: Khan Noonien Singh, a genetically enhanced ubermench of the twentieth century. In the original Star Trek episode 'Space Seed', Captain Kirk revives a group of previous earth rulers from suspended animation, each of whom is the result of genetic manipulation that enhanced their strength, intelligence, and viciousness.  These supermen are led by Khan Noonien Singh, a brute whose lust for power nearly wrecked a pre-Federation earth.  In THE EUGENICS WARS, Greg Cox has written the first of a two volume prequel that fills in the gaps between the time Khan is born and when he next appears in 'Space Seed.' It is very nearly impossible to read Cox's book without keeping in mind the superlative job Ricardo Montalban did as Khan.  There was much to admire about the swaggering Khan that even Kirk could admire.  Cox takes this multifaceted Khan from the moving screen and, in placing him on the printed page, loses nothing of the fearsome if not perverted strength and allure of Montalban's Khan.   <br />Cox uses a writing device often used by dozens of other Star Trek authors--a framing sequence. Here Kirk is discussing with Doctor McCoy the virtues and vices of human genetic tinkering.  McCoy reminds Kirk that it was just such a tinkering that led to a ruinous war that exterminated much of earth's 20th century population.  Fascinated with the topic, Kirk uses his ship's computers to spin out the complete story.  It is this computerized version of history that forms the bulk of the novel.  Despite a strong story line and an equallystrong Khan as antagonist, much of the power of the tale was reduced by Cox's overuse of a multiple narrative viewpoint and an annoying use of coincidence to make the plot work.  Essentially, THE EUGENICS WARS is told from three perspectives: Gary Seven, who is himself the result of genetic manipulation; Roberta Lincoln, who began the televised episode as Seven's secretary but in this book is his trusted assistant; and Khan himself.  As I was led from one perspective to another, I had trouble keeping straight as to who the protagonist was meant to be.  Was it Seven, who represents the right use of advanced power?   Was it Ms. Lincoln, in whose trendy flip women's lib attitudes that the reader should focus? Or was it Khan, whose unwavering sense of destiny stamps him as the world leader that he surely thinks he is?  Ironically enough, Khan's criticisms of Seven as one who has the power to change the world but chooses not to do so are not far off the mark.  Seven tries mightily to keep the earth from self-immolation, but he clearly fails at critical times.  Clearly, Khan and Seven are opposite sides of the same genetically altered coin.  As for Roberta Lincoln, she is the weakest of the viewpoints.  Her flippant and juvenile remarks about the many villains she faces leads the novel seriously astray. All too often she comes off like a school girl annoyed at a teacher who has given her detention for chewing gum in class.  <br />Much of the novel was a delight with its many references to the original series and its many spinoffs:  the Borg, Q, Jack the Ripper, and Roswell.  I have not yet read the second volume, although I suspect that it recounts Khan's gradual grabbing of the seat of world dominion. Even though I know the end of the Khan saga from both the television series and from the movie THE WRATH OF KHAN, I still found THE EUGENICS WARS a fun read.  More than once, Khan's use of his enhanced body brought to mind that great power breeds great ambition, which, ifunchecked by compassion and humanity, must ultimately lead to great ruin.  The calamity of a ruined earth surely attests to that.	2003-01-04
US	49818928	R2L7N4PGNCF6DV	0892550147	639974213	Bread Givers	Books	5	28	29	N	N	Bread Givers: Words as Weapons	It is difficult to read BREAD GIVERS by Anzia Yezierska and not feel the same barrage of competing emotions that afflict nearly everyone in the book. On a literal level, Yezierska writes of the struggle of Russian/Polish Jews to assimilate in the New York just before the First World War. The action is narrated over a period of some dozen years by Sara Smolinsky, who begins the novel as a ten year old girl, one of three other sisters. We see the action filtered through her eyes, so there is the natural reaction to perceive events as she does. But what she sees is so emotionally shattering that the reader soon learns to substitute his own experiences as that filter. <br />Sara and her family live in New York but their world view is heavily shaped by their origins in the Old World of eastern Europe. In that society, the male head of the household is the master. Not only does he dare claim that women have no place in running a household, but he also can point to the Torah as justification. Sara's father, the Reb Smolinsky, is drawn in such a nasty, vindictive way that he all but emerges as a one dimensional caricature of all that can go wrong when one hides behind saintly words as an excuse to bully others. The Reb refuses to work for money; he expects his family to do that, leaving him time to study the Torah. He routinely squashes flat his daughters' confidence by insulting them daily. He arranges disastrous marriages for them, and when these marriages go predictably bad, he avoids responsibility by telling them, 'As you make your bed, so must you sleep in it.' But because he appears in every chapter, he, rather than Sara, becomes the center of dramatic focus. He is so vile and hateful that the reader even begins to question the source of the Reb's tirades: the Torah itself. Long before the final chapter, the reader begins to see the inevitable results of what happens when a weak-minded individual takes words and ideas which are intrinsically noble and bastardizes them into something monstrous. There is no evil that is beyond the Reb's ability to twist from a more benign source as the Torah. Sara's other sisters suffer long years of acquiescence, slowly building a fund of bitter gall that simply awaits the opportunity for a well-deserved revenge. For the longest time so does Sara, but what happens to her is the rarest miracle of all. Sara tries against stupendous odds to come to grips with the ages old paradox: should one return good for evil? It would have been so easy for her to take the route of her sisters, to return hate for hate. Sara is the only one in a book full of hurt people inflicting verbal pain on others who even tries to peek behind that curtain of verbal weapons that masks a festering sore of decades. She is a towering figure of strength and discipline that lingers in the mind long after the pathetic sadism of a reb finally begins to wear out its welcome in the lives of civilized people. BREAD GIVERS serves to remind the reader that words can heal as well as hurt.	2002-12-24
US	49818928	R5SRXEQTELBFV	0553213105	503057596	Pride and Prejudice (Bantam Classics)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Pride & Prejudice: Surprising Passion in a Novel of Manners	It is unfortunate that most first time readers of PRIDE AND PREJUDICE see it merely as one more book to be endured in 11th grade English.  However, most soon enough catch the magic of an author (Jane Austen) who can weave a spellbinding tale of love, romance, satire, and passion while all the while poking a not so gentle thrust at the social mores of the early 19th century.  This book is no frilly ancestor of a Harlequin romance, even if it shares with the dim-witted heroines of Harlequin a time-honored plot of lovers who meet and find an instant dislike that later morphs into enduring love.  PRIDE AND PREJUDICE starts off with that basic premise, but what sets it off as classic is what goes on behind the lovers, Elizabeth Bennet and Fitzwilliam Darcy.  A careful reader usually notes the society in which Elizabeth and Darcy play out their little games of cross-purpose verbal repartee.  The world of Austen's PRIDE AND PREJUDICE is a society ruled by conniving and single-minded women who see men only in terms of the size of their wallets.  Whenever a new bachelor appears on the scene, the women of the novel (with the exception of Elizabeth, of course) immediately try to guess his income so that they can decide if one wishes to marry him.  His age, his looks, his habits are much less significant than his income.  A fat purse compensates for a fat head.<br />Modern readers typically call such schemers 'golddiggers,' and according to modern values, perhaps they are, but these readers ought to judge the book's morality against the age in which it was written.  Austen (1775 - 1817) lived in an England that prized manners and breeding over all else.  It is no surprise, then, that since the reclusive author felt most comfortable only in the company of women, that she would limit her book only to the thoughts, feelings, emotions, and habits of women.  In PRIDE AND PREJUDICE, men are never permitted to occupy center stage, nor are they shown interacting independently with other men.  If a man is present in any scene, so must a woman to control and observe his actions. Men--even the eventually triumphant Darcy--are generally portrayed as vain, sycophantic, sarcastic, and totally aware that they they are prized only for their money.<br />The world of PRIDE AND PREJUDICE, especially if one has seen the fine film version starring Greer Garson, is one that seems to have been built for women to inhabit.  All the women wear flouncy, bouncy dresses with huge flowered hats that Scarlet O'Hara might have worn in GONE WITH THE WIND.  Even those ladies that complain of poverty never lack the funds to afford those outrageous outfits.  Further, Miss Austen stages a ball in just about every third chapter that permits single women to size up eligible men.  As these dandefied women and uniformed men speak to each other, the modern reader probably will be surprised at the excessive politeness and deference tossed unerringly about.  This strict adherence to a surface morality ought not to fool the reader into assuming that the characters are as inwardly noble as they are outwardly polite.  In fact, behind this massive wall of formal phrasing and good manners lies the same fears, jealousies, and general backstabbing that pervade a modern disco.  What gives PRIDE AND PREJUDICE its perpetual charm is the biting irony that causes the reader to wonder: 'Did that character say what I think he (or she) just said?' The modern reader can best appreciate Austen's wit if she can read between the lines to sense the tone of the moment.  If such a reader can see that this book is a polite if powerful indictment of a way of life that even Austen wished to poke fun of, then perhaps this reader can appreciate the charm of a book that grows with each successive reading.	2002-12-21
US	49818928	R3B1AECHTF76CP	0684801523	193175702	The Great Gatsby	Books	5	0	0	N	N	THE GREAT GATSBY: A Dream Gone Sour	During the hedonistic go-go years following the end of the First World War, F. Scott Fitzgerald was plainly alarmed by the cultural and financial excesses that marked America's new and what was for him, a perverted interest in the historically rooted American dream.  In this dream, begun by Ben Franklin in his autobiography, he lists, as does Jay Gatsby in THE GREAT GATSBY, a shopping list of virtues whose goal it is to inculcate those values that both Franklin and Gatsby thought would lead to material success. The difference between Ben Franklin and Jay Gatsby has more to say about the use of those virtues than their origin.  With Gatsby, the American Dream is not simply pulling himself up by his bootstraps from poverty to riches, but in his warped vision of that dream, Gatsby symbolizes what can go wrong when any upwardly mobile American allows another to recast that dream according to the competing dreams of another.<br />  Gatsby believes that he loves the incredibly alluring Daisy Fay, a teenage society deb--beautiful, sexy, elegant--whom he sees as the ultimate goal for his life.  They meet, they fall in love (or do they? This is arguable) and they break up because Gatsby is too poor for her to marry.  Up to the point that they meet, Gatsby is pursuing the Franklinian version of the American ideal, which can be summed up as hard work + true grit = material success.  Gatsby wants success, but he wants it for himself.  After meeting and being rejected by Daisy, Gatsby now sees his dream as the means to achieve a higher dream: securing the affections of a woman whose limitations in taste and fidelity were obvious to all but him.  During the years of their separation, Gatsby worked hard to build his criminal empire that brought him the money and possessions that he truly saw as the missing variable in the romantic equation that would convince Daisy to be by his side.  Gatsby is wrong is so many ways that the reader is not sure whether to laugh at him for his emotional myopia or to pity him for the same reason.<br />  Those critics who analyze Gatsby's role in the perversion of the American dream tend to focus on the Gatsby side of the equation, yet to understand the inner tragedy of this dream's deconstruction, one must also examine Daisy's role.  Exactly who is this Daisy Fay?  To begin with, consider her last name, which is an aberrant spelling of 'fey,' which means a doomed vision. Those who connect with her, both Gatsby and her brute husband Tom, are doomed to a life of trying to relate to a woman who cannot return basic human kindness.  Daisy is shallow, frivolous, and easily impressed by the very qualities that Tom showers her with (a $350,000 ring) and Gatsby shows her (those silk shirts that cause her to weep).  It is almost as if Daisy is auctioning herself off to the highest bidder.  Daisy's dream is the flipside of Franklin's.  She wants the rewards of hard work without incurring the demands of the work itself.  In the collision between these contrasting dreams, it comes as no surprise that buried somewhere in Daisy's soul is just enough of a link to harsh reality to remind her that Tom, despite his affairs and animalistic nature, is still preferable to a Gatsby, who offers only the illusion, not the reality of love.  When Nick tells Gatsby that the past cannot be reborn and reshaped into a present more to his liking, Gatsby stuns both Nick and the reader by saying, \\"Of course it can.\\"  Gatsby's entire life and by extension his dream of success that is to include the questionable charms of Daisy, is seen as so flawed that whenever his dream meets a competing dream that has at least some root in reality, his dream of a green light that can blink into any color he wants will crash into a tragedy that resounds even today.otional myopia or to pity him for the same reason.  <br />     Those critics who analyze Gatsby's role in the perversion of the American dream tend to focus on the Gatsby side of the equation, yet to understand the inner tragedy of this dream's deconstruction, one must also examine Daisy's role.  Exactly who is this Daisy Fay?  To begin with, consider her last name, which is an aberrant spelling of 'fey,' which means a doomed vision. Those who connect with her, both Gatsby and her brute husband Tom, are doomed to a life of trying to relate to a woman who cannot return basic human kindness.  Daisy is shallow, frivolous, and easily impressed by the very qualities that Tom showers her with (a $350,000 ring) and Gatsby shows her (those silk shirts that cause her to weep).  It is almost as if Daisy is auctioning herself off to the highest bidder.  Daisy's dream is the flipside of Franklin's.  She wants the rewards of hard work without incurring the demands of the work itself.  In the collision between these contrasting dreams, it comes as no surprise that buried somewhere in Daisy's soul is just enough of a link to harsh reality to remind her that Tom, despite his affairs and animalistic nature, is still preferable to a Gatsby, who offers only the illusion, not the reality of love.  When Nick tells Gatsby that the past cannot be reborn and reshaped into a present more to his liking, Gatsby stuns both Nick and the reader by saying, \\"Of course it can.\\"  Gatsby's entire life and by extension his dream of success that is to include the questionable charms of Daisy, is seen as so flawed that whenever his dream meets a competing dream that has at least some root in reality, his dream of a green light that can blink into any color he wants will crash into a tragedy that resounds even today.	2002-12-14
US	49818928	R3G5BFUNE0XE4S	0671039105	104741909	An Isaac Asimov Robot Mystery: Mirage (Isaac Asimov's Robot Mystery)	Books	3	10	10	N	N	Mirage: Fails to Excite	When a prolific and profitable author like Isaac Asimov dies, his publishers do not believe that his death ought to mark the end of the publishing gravy train.  After Asimov's death, his Foundation and Robot universes were novelized again by several writers, most notably David Brin, Gregory Benford, Roger MacBride Allen, and now most recently with Mark Tiedemann with MIRAGE. It is not overly difficult to duplicate the style of Asimov; it is his substance that remains elusive.  Tiedemann writes of the robotic future of earth that had not yet morphed into a galactic empire.  This empire is staunchly anti-robotic, with much opposition coming from decadent Spacer worlds that require robots to maintain their own self-loathing existences.  On earth, a number of humans and Spacers are assassinated by unknown assailants, throwing into jeopardy a major treaty between earth and the Spacer worlds.  The problem with Tiedemann is that his characters speak with the Asimovian twang but lack its inner emotional resonance.  Tiedemann seems unclear as to who his protagonist should be.  Instead he divides center stage between Special Agent Mia Daventri and roboticist Derec Avery, neither of whom is sufficiently interesting to involve the reader.  Nowhere in MIRAGE does Tiedemann cause the reader to care about an increasingly volatile symbiotic relationship between man and robot.  Roger MacBride Allen was far more successfull in his trilogy of Asimov inspired robot novels.  If the reader wants to get further involved in a post Asimovian universe of conflict between man and robot, then this reader has little choice but to hope that writers like Tiedemann learn their craft well enough to make him care about how humans interact with both altered humans and robots.  The real test of any novel lies in its ability to cause the reader to think of it long after he closes the flyleaf.  Sadly, MIRAGE failed to deliver.	2002-12-14
US	49818928	R1Z39FJSSM98OD	0764113909	671283108	How to Prepare for the Sat I (BARRON'S HOW TO PREPARE FOR  THE SAT I (BOOK ONLY))	Books	5	17	17	N	N	Barron's SAT + 6 months study = top score	For those high school seniors who think that they can get a high score on the SAT based mostly on their smarts and a few weeks review are in for a rude awakening.  Let's face it.  The SAT is a culturally biased exam that favors those lucky enough to live in a middle to upper-class home with both parents providing private schooling and wide reading exposure.  Given that even moderately selective colleges require a 1,000 plus SAT, it just makes sense for a tester to maximize his exposure to SAT related concepts.  The BARRON's HOW TO PREPARE FOR THE SAT I does a very thorough job of that.  What is generally not known to test hopefuls is that the SAT not only tests on previously learned skills like vocabulary, reading speed, and math formulae, it also tests on how one may intuitively choose from a variety of approaches, all of which point to the answer, but only one of which does so faster than the others.  The Barron's staff writers spend many pages on explaining how to get the answer and how to choose the fastest way to get it.  What I found particularly useful was the math section that explained how to overcome the SAT trick questions with methods that ETS cannot prohibit.  Simply knowing that one may overcome the prohibition against rulers by using one's answer sheet as a ruler will boost your math score by a considerable margin.  The sections on reading comprehension, antonyms, and sentence completion cover material in both depth and quantity in ways not covered by other texts.  In order for the test hopeful to gain maximum benefit from the text, I suggest a minimum of 6 months of 1-2 hours per day, 7 days a week, to digest the massive practice and tips that lie within its nearly 800 pages.  The vocabulary section alone is a daunting 3,000 words long so every day of that 6 months should be used.  I am a high school teacher and I use the Barron's SAT in my class on a regular basis for both SAT and non-SAT related matters.  If you are serious about getting into a good college, you had also better get serious about getting ready to get into that good college.  This book will do that.	2002-12-02
US	49818928	R3NE1XBXEI37LJ	0837182263	606672071	Train to Pakistan.	Books	5	22	24	N	N	Train to Pakistan: Breaking the Cycle of Revenge	Ethnic conflict has been a staple of cross-cultural contact for as long as more than one race and religion have tried to co-exist.  In the border between Pakistan and India, the theme of revenge killing calling for ever more revenge killing has found a clear voice in TRAIN TO PAKISTAN by Khushwant Singh.  Nearly everyone in the novel is flawed to some degree with the effects and aftereffects of ethnic cleansing.  There is no clear cut hero although a criminal named Jugga comes closest.  Jugga is a Sikh thief who happens to take a Moslem woman as a lover.  Their illicit relation is a microcosm of all that is terribly wrong when the cut of a person's beard counts more than the content of his soul.  Jugga is far from an angel, but he slowly grows in stature from the baseness of his profession to one who is forced to contemplate the consequences of his own role in the ongoing cycle of killing between Sikh and Moslem.  He is used as a pawn in the Sikh's killing of innocent Moslems, and his choice is the same that all men of revived conscience have had to face in similar such times: should he participate willingly even eagerly in the proposed slaughter of a train of deported Moslems shipped unceremoniously to Pakistan or should he speak out against the insanity that is insane only to him?  The various flaws of all the characters of the novel--their vicious caste system, their willingness to demonize other races, their unwillingness to question even the most fundamental elements of their dogma--all stem from the cycle of killing that did not begin with the trainload of Sikh corpses that entered the sleepy town of Mano Majra in India.  This mass killing is simply a sociological given: its root cause goes back uncounted centuries of strife between Moslem and Sikh yet it is hailed by Sikhs as 'the' reason to replicate the slaughter of Moslems on yet another train headed to Pakistan.  Khushwant Singh portrays a society of confused, angry villagers who see no way out of the ongoing cycle of killing except to perpetuate that killing.  Singh suggests that the men of good conscience who try to make even token attempts to bring this insanity to a halt are few and far between.  The events of clashes between Sikh and Moslem that have occurred since this book was first published in 1956 further suggest that such men of good conscience have grown fewer in number.	2002-11-24
US	49818928	R3VNE9IN6XENQG	0226901750	788086608	Literary Criticism	Books	3	5	13	N	N	All the Faults/None of the Virtues of Scholarly Jargonese	Literary criticism is supposed to sweep away the fogs and webs of literary misreadings so that the degreed individual with an interest in such matters can make sense of what he reads.  However, in the case of LITERARY CRITICISM: A SHORT HISTORY by Wimsatt and Brooks, both fall far short of explicating what is surely the daunting task of summing up nearly two thousand years of criticism stretching from the ancient Greeks to the then modern age of 1957.  Nearly all of the book is a turgid, nearly unreadable mess that places obstacles in the paths of those who love literature.  Exactly who is the intended reader?  Clearly, the authors had in mind the vanishingly small percent of erudite readers much like themselves.  I am an adjunct professor of English, and I had trouble making sense of the nearly 750 pages that is the text.  I thought I knew fairly well the criticisms of such writers as Dryden, Longinus, and Wordsworth, but after I finished reading the parts of the text that dealt with them, I was not so sure.  Clearly, what is needed is for future writers of criticism to avoid the temptation to spout out scholarly jargonese at the drop of a hat.  I do not recommend this book, unless some perverse dissertation adviser mandates it.	2002-11-09
US	49818928	R1JSPVS5CW5ILN	1563051222	528495349	The History of Earth: An Illustrated Chronicle of an Evolving Planet	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Who Knew History Could Be So Fascinating?	Usually most history books are as dry as the dust with which they deal.  But with THE HISTORY OF EARTH, Hartmann &amp; Miller tackle with vast success a topic that is only marginally understood,at best, by the layman.  And make no mistake; this history is for the layman, but one who has a desire to know where we come from and where we may be going. Part of the learning process involves digesting a flood of data and making sense of it. Hartman &amp; Miller use dozens of drawings, pictures, and mattes to bring to life a series of threads that they weave into a coherent whole.  <br />What the authors reveal is a planet that may well stand unique in the universe.  The precious element called life arose on earth in such a fortuitous manner that the odds of life having spontaneously arisen in any form were so staggeringly improbable that I marvel that I am here right now to pen these words.  Yet, life did arise here, and Miller &amp; Hartmann trace the long sequence of twists and convolutions stretching from the Precambrian right up to the present day.  Most readers who go to the trouble of buying this book probably took a course or two in Earth History in school.  What this book provides is a much longer and more comprehensible version of the geological timeline that readers have seen but failed to grasp.  After finishing this work (I read it as if it were a novel), I concluded that if we here on earth are truly alone in the cosmos, then we had better take full advantage of our having won the Cosmic Lottery.  We are not likely to win twice.	2002-11-08
US	49818928	R308L8WNXTFAH9	185367446X	999618445	Rising Sun Victorious	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Japan Wins: Maybe	Peter Tsouras is one of a handful of writers and editors who are not satisfied with the way America's historical wars turned out.  Such alternate historians usually begin their contribution with a 'what if' question that focuses on one small string of a much larger fabric of historical truth that we now call Accepted History.  In RISING SUN VICTORIOUS, Tsouris edits ten essays (one of which is his own) all of which purport to demonstrate that the difference between the Accepted History and its alternate version is a lot smaller than we would like to think. The list of essays range from Japan's decision to war on Russia rather than attack Pearl Harbor to a third attack wave that completes the destruction on Pearl Harbor that the first two waves did not.  Other essays focus on Japan's assaults on India, Australia, and bombing attacks on Hollywood. As I read these various alternate histories of how the war in the Pacific could have turned out differently, I reached the following conclusions:    First:  Even for those who like their alternate histories in novelized form (Harry Tutrledove's novels come to mind), such dry renderings come across as hard reading at best and astoundingly dull at worst.  Each of the ten essays reminded me of Tsouras' other A-H book, DISASTER AT D-DAY.  Such works are replete with a staggering array of names, dates, places, battles, army and navy military groupings.  After a dozen or so pages, the reader gets lost in a sea of data that screams out for some unifying element.  Novelized A-H stories can provide this needed human interaction between 'what if' and 'who cares.'     Second: Some elements of A-H are simply more interesting than are other elements.  In RISING SUN VICTORIOUS, the essay on the Kamikaze suicide bombers was simpy neither inherently interesting nor believable for me to swallow.  The essays that really caught my eye involved areas that combined reader interest with reasonable probability: the third wave attack on Pearl Harbor and the conquest of India, for example.  Perhaps future A-H military writers might couch their tales with less miltary data and more human interaction.      Third:  Most A-H tales involving the Second World War posit scenarios ranging from the total defeat and occupation of the United States by Axis powers (THE MAN IN THE HIGH CASTLE by Phillip K. Dick) to histories that suggest that the Japanese/Nazi axis might have won a partial victory that could have permitted them a conditional peace with America. Critics of RISING SUN VICTORIOUS and others of its ilk dryly point out what they deem an inherent flaw in such scenarios, namely that the overwhelming industrial might of the United States must, at some point, have proven decisive in the long run.   Yet, each of the contributors to this book acknowledges this very limitation on their fantasies.    Clearly, no coalition of Japanese and/or German armies could have brought America to its knees.  What emerges in most of these scenarios is a world that is not vastly different from the one which we now inhabit.  In fact, most of the contributors go to great pains to suggest that any victory in the Pacific would be ephemeral, and that events, even in this alternate timeline, would sooner or later 'catch up' to their real world counterparts.    So where do readers go if they want to ponder other timelines?  Books like RISING SUN VICTORIOUS ought to carry a label that might read: Caution--Intended for mature (and patiently erudite) readers only.  All others might find more enjoyment in novelized versions that give readers the chance to interact with history through the perceptions of a novel's all too human characters whose failings and strengths may not be very different from his own.	2002-10-06
US	49818928	RB8IM4I76LQ9H	0060929782	318363039	Black Boy (The Restored Text Established by The Library of America) (Perennial Classics)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Black Boy: Hunger Finds an Outlet--Words	BLACK BOY is one of the great classics of American literature.  Written as a novel, it is actually a novelized autobiography of Richard Wright, an African-American who learns first hand and at an early age about the corrosive effects of racism on both the oppressor and the oppressed.  Wright tells his tale amidst the backdrop of various themes that interact to produce in the minds of the reader that to be a young black boy in the early 20th century required one either to submit to and conform with the expectations of a white-dominant society or to stand out like a nail begging to be hammered into an unforgiving plank.  During the course of the first twenty-five years of his life, Wright, the author, shows how Wright, the child, was able to first meet then overcome a series of emotionally crippling experiences that caused him to seek inward to verbalize with the written word what he dared not with the spoken.  For him, his experiences with racism are portrayed via a triangle of competing symbols: his frequent beatings by his family, his obvious disappointment with the cringing and servile Stepin Fetchit attitude of many of his black acquaintances, and his gradual realization that if he cannot or will not become part of the system that degrades blacks, that perhaps he can change that system through the power of the printed word.<BR>       From the time that Wright is a child, he is battered by the very people whom he ought to count on as a bulwark against a racist mentality that they understood only too well but he did not.  Time and again, his mother, his grandmother, and his assorted aunts and uncles beat him mercilessly, all the while telling themselves that these beatings are for his own good in that he must learn to adapt to a white-dominant black-subservient society.  Throughout the book, Richard Wright refuses to do this.  The price he pays for his independence is a fearful one.  He can count on no one but himself, and even within himself, he can count on onlythe words that he puts to paper.  As one reads of the harrowing experiences of a boy who only wanted to be a good boy, then the significance of the title BLACK BOY becomes apparent to both reader and author as the boy of the title remains a boy to the eyes of whites even decades after that boy now sees himself rightfully as a man.	2002-09-21
US	49818928	RQ4BUPKRFFCZA	0345342968	383457570	Fahrenheit 451	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Fahrenheit 451: There is a Fire in All of Us	FAHRENHEIT 451 is a grim yet thought-provoking novel of a dystopian future. Other novels that show a bleak future--1984 and BRAVE NEW WORLD come to mind--focus on what their authors see as the root cause of the implosion of human values. Ray Bradbury envisions this implosion as a gradual process of extreme cultural homogenization that, in the words of the novel's antagonist, Fire Captain Beatty, reduces 'everyone to the consistency of paste pudding.' Whatever it is that stamps one individual as different from another, the society of FAHRENHEIT 451 ruthlessly if not mindlessly grinds down and out that uniqueness that once marked a creative thinker.<BR> Guy Montag is a fireman who likes his job, which is to start fires and not extinguish them. He burns books to ashes, and then burns the ashes, as his firemen's slogan boasts. He sees nothing wrong with that, and at the start of the book, he is not unlike nearly everyone else in his acceptance of the Way of Things. Yet, Bradbury hints early on that Montag's mind and soul are ripe for a literary infection that is just as contagious as the Black Plague ever was. He meets a young girl Clarisse, who insists on asking him questions whose apparent nonsensical purpose is really meant to probe the paper thin layer of protection that Montag had built up over the years. She asks him if he is happy. She asks him if he has ever looked at the moon. With these seemingly innocuous questions, she infects Montag with the forbidden desire to know the 'why' of things. By the end of their first meeting, Montag now knows that his life has been a cotton candy lie. For the first time in his life, he can see that the society in which he lives is dedicated to the ultimate communistic ideal: each citizen is encouraged to reach only to a preordained level. To attempt to reach beyond that lies the swift punishment of the flamethrowers and the Mechanical Hounds. After only a few days, Montag is now stealing and reading forbidden books. The plot isnot what sells the book or what has made it required reading on most college and high school campuses. The lure of FAHRENHEIT 451 is the manner in which Bradbury weaves the threads of present day trends of soap operas and quiz shows into a quilt whose collective and stifling weight crushes individualism just as surely as Orwell's Big Brother does in 1984. Bradbury uses a number of symbols (fire, books, the salamander, the Phoenix) which allow the reader to view a troika of social elements that contained within themselves the promise of death to the Thinking Man. Bradbury creates a triangle of public school education, technology, and interpersonal relations, all of which are perverted to create a society whose primary function is to use one's brains as minimally as possible for unthinking personal pleasure. The school system drills learning by rote in children's minds. No books are need for that. Technology provides huge televisions so that the stars of these shows interact with an audience to the extent that true human relations are shunted aside for a fake television 'family.' Personal relations of family and friends are then limited to inane conversations of the type that we here in the real world see on our tv commercials. Montag sees his wife Mildred as bad off as any of her equally brain-dead friends. He tries to infect her and them with the same teasing questions about the Meaning of Life that Clarisse used on him so successfully. To his horror, Montag learns that they are immune to the germ of curiosity. He cannot change his society, though he tries mightily by plotting with a former college professor named Faber to plant forbidden books in the homes of firemen. He learns that since he cannot change society, he must leave it.<BR> One of the best parts of the book is the cat and mouse game that Fire Captain Beatty plays with Montag. Beatty is seen as a man who once had been infected with the bug of individualism, but had since 'cured' himself and now is determined to cure Montag. Their extended dialogue is one of the great literary dialogues between oppressor and oppressed. Beatty explains how his society came to be and Montag learns that somewhere along the line, the process went horribly wrong. By the novel's end, the reader can only hope that the literary virus of infection will never meet its cure. For Ray Bradbury, this cure was not very far away. For Guy Montag, the cure was even closer.	2002-09-20
US	49818928	R1HUH9LB17G8CZ	0375705899	713608311	Bodega Dreams	Books	3	3	6	N	N	Bodega Dreams by F Scott Fitzgerald Oops! I mean E. Quinonez	A poor but idealistic young man falls in love with an upwardly mobile lady who dumps him because of his poverty and marries a wealthy man.  He vows to amass a fortune to win her back.  Years later, now a millionaire because of illegal narcotic smuggling, he reappears to throw lavish parties and win her back.  She leaves her husband only to kill a man and her now rich boyfriend agrees to take the blame.  And all of this is narrated by a decent young man who slowly comes to realize the true and unrealistic vision of the boyfriend.  Does this sound like Fitzgerald's THE GREAT GATSBY?  Ernesto Quinonez in BODEGA DREAMS updates Gatsby's tale of unreality colliding with harsh reality to serve as the backdrop for Spanish Harlem.  Now there is nothing wrong with borrowing plot elements from other and more successful books, but what should stamp the updated version is a sense that the author has enlarged on the themes of the original and staked out new literary territory of its own.  Unfortunately, Quinonez does little more than give his characters Hispanic names and verbal tics.  Much of his book is full of the phonetic pronunciation of Hispanicized English with frequent obscenities thrown in.  <BR>       What emerges from BODEGA DREAMS are the same themes that Fitzgerald handled with far more skill in THE GREAT GATSBY.  Willie Bodega (Gatsby) has loved Vera (Daisy) for years and plans to win her back by amassing a fortune in crime.  Bodega might have been a decent man except for his blind spot of love for Vera that dragged him into a life of crime.  Julio (Nick) sees Bodega as a man with a vision that allows him to reshape reality so that the end product will be about as real as his love for her.  Bodega associates his vision of a renovated Spanish Harlem with a renovated love for a woman who refuses to be seen only as a two dimensional matrix.  If Bodega can only construct a mansion fitting enough for a Spanish king, then surely Vera will see the worth that burns in his soul.  <BR>        Much of the better parts of Bodega Dreams explores the gap between wish fullfillment and brute reality.  Bodega's dreams are infectious.  Nearly everyone who knows him is taken in by those dreams and does not mind that crime may be the impetus behind some serious social and romantic re-engineering. But not everyone is taken in by those dreams.  The tragedy of any dream is not only that dreams have a bitter habit of being crushed by reality, but rather that not everyone shares that dream.  Some, in fact, have competing dreams that force the original dreamer to see that any foundation built only on illusion is no foundation at all.  Fitzgerald's Gatsby never got to see that.  For that matter, neither did Quinonez's Bodega.	2002-09-15
US	49818928	RNT2VYNVCZVVU	0812504798	71877442	The Red Badge of Courage (Tor Classics)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	The Inner Meaning of Crane's Red Badge of Courage	When Stephen Crane wrote THE RED BADGE OF COURAGE it was hailed as a masterpiece of war fiction, more so especially when its readers found out that the only experience Crane had in war was the kind that most of his readers had: from books and articles. When readers discuss the book, they tend to focus on its two outstanding elements: Crane's use of symbol and imagery and the maturation of one soldier from cowardice to courage. Clearly Crane does use language superbly to create in the reader's eye an image of a callow youth, Henry Fleming, who starts off the novel in fear and finishes it in a blaze of glory. But such considerations, when used in isolation, tend to diminish Crane's more subtle attitude toward war and man's attitudes toward war. Crane tends to picture war in a generic sense. Many of his characters have no name. They are referred to by type: the 'youth,' the 'tattered' soldier, the 'dying' man. Battles have no geographical name. What the reader gets out of Crane's refusal to particularize the war is his belief that all soldiers in all wars react much the same as Henry Fleming to the rigors of battle. Further, Crane's use of color imagery, his investing nature with human qualities (called the pathetic fallacy), and his use of symbols (the flag, the wafer-like sun) all combine to suggest that war is so inherently chaotic that it resists any attempt on a literary level to concretize its horrors. <BR> Crane's focus is squarely on Henry Fleming and his perception of both himself and his environment. We never know what the other soldiers think. We can infer their thoughts only through the evolving view of Fleming himself. And what he thinks is that he will turn yellow at the first opportunity. As he thinks this, he rationalizes that all other soldiers think as he does. Further, he sees nature itself in harmony with his thougts. If Fleming lacks courage, then so must the rest of the universe. Serious literary critics point to even more subtle and archetypal images of birth versus rebirth and retreat versus advance in order to bolster their respective claims concerning how Fleming's moral regeneration began. I have no problem with this focus on Fleming's conversion, but not many readers question the sincerity of this conversion. By the middle of the novel, Fleming has been humiliated, bashed on the head with a rifle butt, separated from his mates, and is generally battling with some serious issues of self-worth. And then he changes. For no apparent reason, he now is brimful with courage in battle and hatred of the enemy. Further, he feels a deep shame towards those boys in blue who now exhibit the same lack of courage that formerly characterized him. Yet, it does not follow that courage must spring forth from a mere recognizance of one's own failings. What Crane would seemingly have the reader believe is that Fleming turned his life around quickly and seemingly at will. Yet I quibble at this conversion. It is more likely that Crane wanted his readers to see that the innate chaotic nature of war is so alien to human understanding that the concepts that we call 'courage' and 'cowardice' are mere tags to describe on the most superficial of levels a multi-faceted series of strands of emotions that under stress blend into one another so that the excess of one is seen as the deficiency of the other. Fleming's new-found courage, then, in charging for the grey guns, is less the permanent sense of abiding bravery than the temporary sense of fear turned upside down, a result which mimics but does not actualize true heroism. As Fleming holds onto his red flag while wearing his red badge of courage, the redness of both flag and badge are reduced to empty posturing, that paradoxically enough entitle their bearer to accolades of heroic merit by those others who have not yet undergone a similar conversion. Therefore, it is this superficial conversion of and confusion with deep-seated fear and suspect heroism that marks Crane as one whosought to reveal the terrible chaos of war by suggesting that those whom we adore as heroes perform their acts with less obvious motivation.	2002-08-29
US	49818928	R3RESZGJT5SLZQ	0345315758	991527109	The Return of Tarzan, Vol. 2	Books	4	8	13	N	N	The Return of Tarzan: The Genetic Superman	The commercial success of E. R. Burroughs' TARZAN OF THE APES in 1914 inevitably led to what was the first in a long line of sequels, THE RETURN OF TARZAN. The first book introduced the forest god who is described so often in biological superlatives that generations of readers and critics have either thrilled to his near superhuman feats or have villified Burroughs for racist attitudes that if expressed today in a new work of fiction would be immediately classified as politically incorrect.  <BR>     Burroughs' strong point as a writer was to place his hero in a series of exotic locales, then watch him interact with the natives.  In TARZAN OF THE APES, this exotic locale was Africa.  In THE RETURN OF TARZAN it was first Paris, then the Sahara, then a lifeboat, finally culminating in a personal favorite of Burroughs, a lost city.  By the start of this sequel, Tarzan knows his lineage as an English lord, but is determined to hide that since he truly believes that his cousin, William Cecil Clayton, would make a better lord and husband for his beloved Jane. Tarzan immediately gets involved with a married Russian countess and her issues with her criminal brother and her older husband. Partly as a consequence of his interaction with the villainous brother, Nicholas Rokoff, Tarzan is lured into a room where he is attacked by a dozen Paris muggers.  The scene that details this mugging is one of the great chapters in literature that focus on this topic. Tarzan is described as a jungle Hercules that fights like some impossible combination of a raging gorilla with the speed of a panther.  The muggers are quickly dispatched in a manner that has since become a trademark of his.  The rest of the book shows Burroughs both at his best and worst.  Burroughs simply has no ear for dialogue.  His characters, with Tarzan being the worst offender, speak in the courtly pseudo-dialect that Burroughs thought all lower classes believed that all upper class folk used. Tarzan fondly recalls his childhood and his foster ape mother with a friend, D'Arnot: \\"To you my friend, she (his foster mother) would have appeared a hideous and ugly creature, but to me she was beautiful--so gloriously does love transfigure its object.\\"  Further, readers are often annoyed at Burroughs' oversuse of coincindence to keep the plot moving. Then there is the racist element.  His villains are invariably dark, swarthy, or black.   <BR>In the lost city of Opar, the women priestesses are lovely, erudite, and white.  The men are deformed, apelike, and black.  The high priestess, La, tells Tarzan that only the most eugenically perfect men are selected to be mates for her priestesses. In this book, as in many others, Burroughs often has some high priestess tell Tarzan that he would make a suitable choice.  Clearly, Burroughs' Tarzan series was meant to be entertaining, and any potentially disturbing polemics that do not ring as politically correct today can be dismissed as the style of a man whose books have had more of an impact on nearly every culture on this planet than any other author.	2002-08-15
US	49818928	R3EDSR7ZMAJILL	0316294748	555280414	Red Mafiya:  How the Russian Mob Has Invaded America	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Red Mafiya: Red is the Color of Blood	When the Soviet Union went out of business in 1991, the communist leadership which had been doing a poor job of running the country since 1918, then stood revealed as having done an equally poor job of controlling an even more important segment of Soviet society: the Russian crime cartel.  In RED MAFYIA, Robert H. Friedman makes it clear that a hierarchy of Russian gangsters have since become the power behind the throne.  Boris Yeltsin, who became Russia's first post-communist leader, was so thoroughly beholden to this crime cartel that it became increasingly difficult to tell where his government ended and the Red mafiya began.  It must have been difficult for Friedman to write, let alone publish RED MAFIYA, since the very people whom he was writing about would have killed him without a second thought.  Friedman prints a copy of a note from a Russian gangster that threatened his life.  It was most considerate of this gangster to sign his name so that American authorities could take appropriate action.<BR>       Friedman's style is the personal narrative. Most of his book focuses on some half dozen of the world's most dangerous crime lords.  He describes their background, their rise to power, their methods, and their fall from power.  What he makes clear is that he is not just chronicling a list of thugs who have a lust for money and power.  Indeed, America has been the unwelcome home of generations of ethnically based criminals.  What distinguishes the Russians from the Italian, Jamaican, Chinese or other well-established crime cartels is the Russian mob ability to combine all consuming greed, total ruthlessness, flexibility, and a new generation of Harvard MBAs who are even now running a criminal empire with roots that stretch around the world.  Friedman notes that this problem is most acute in the former Soviet Union.  He sees a military strapped for cash whose leaders are willing to turn a blind out to selling weapons of mass destruction that ultimately could end up in the hands of non-Russian terrorist groups who would not hesitate to use them in internecine squabbles.  He sees a Russian civilian government that had been stripped of billions of rubles by the outgoing Communist leaders who were determined to loot their country before the keys to the national treasury were taken from them. He also sees a United States government that finds itself very nearly helpless to control the Russian mob even within its own borders.  Some reviewers of RED MAFIYA have complained of the scarcity of documentation of Friedman's alarming claims, and there is some truth to that, but even if only a fraction of his claims are true, then the stranglehold of a few hundred Russian gangsters will exacerbate a delicate world-wide fabric of economic, social, and political growth that will continue to be rendered impotent for years to come.	2002-08-06
US	49818928	R3UO901T93SWH9	038518011X	880837012	Great Extinction: The Solution to One of the Great Mysteries of Science, the Disappearance of the Dinosaurs	Books	5	3	4	N	N	As Went the Dinosaurs, So May We	Usually, whenever a mass-market science book is published, unless the author's name is Stephen Hawking, both its sales and impact are quite modest. Sometimes, however, the external world intrudes onto the public's consciousness and the topic of that text may become unexpectedly hot and salesworthy.  I predict such an uplifting fate for THE GREAT EXTINCTION by Michael Allaby and James Lovelock, and the reason is February 1, 2019.  That is the date that astronomers have recently predicted that there is a modest probability that an asteroid may slam into the earth, causing catastrophic climatic results.<BR>     It is generally accepted that the very long reign of the dinosaurs came to a crashing end some 65 million years ago when a six mile diameter asteroid collided with the earth off the southern coast of Florida.  Allaby and Lovelock discuss the geological evidence for this calamity.  They note the primary evidence is the world wide existence of a layer of iridium, an element that is not particularly abundant here but is common on asteroids.  They describe the first moment of the impact: 'The sea blew up. Transformed into incandescent gas, the ocean leaped upward with a roar that would have been heard on the other side of the world.'  They call this moment 'The Barrel of Fire.'  This name is appropriate since the resultant release of energy would have equalled 5 billion Nagasaki-sized nuclear blasts.  The destruction world wide had both short term and long term effects.  For the short term: fire, earthquakes, tsunamis, volcanic eruptions.  For the long term: nuclear winter, decades long darkness, complete destruction of most of the world's eco-systems.  The proud dinosaurs, which had ruled non-stop for tens of millions of years, died out overnight.  The tiny burrowing mammals that survived were the default new rulers, and from them evolved humanity.  THE GREAT EXTINCTION is a must read for anyone who wants to know what could happen to humanity if by 2019 we have notyet learned how to delay, destroy, or deflect the oncoming cosmic rock.  The mute fossilized evidence of the remains of the magnificent beasts that used to tread this planet ought to spur us on to meet this latest challenge to our briefest of reigns as lords of the earth.	2002-07-26
US	49818928	R2I4ZQYKV23XKH	0451524934	337991686	1984 (Signet Classics)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	1984: A Future that Might Have Been but Wasn't	The world of George Orwell's 1984 is a dirty world that is filled with equally dirty people.  This filth is both external and internal.  There is scarcely a page in which Orwell does not describe the run-down condition that is Oceania.  Grime seems to cover each wall and window.  Elevators break.  Nearly all moving devices need continual repair.  The only device that is guaranteed to work is the ubiquitous telescreen.  The characters are the human equivalent of their eroding technology.  Almost everyone is fat, gross, balding, or otherwise plain ugly.  Winston Smith, the hero, is described in terms that make the reader wonder why his lover, Julia, fell in love with him.  It is this preoccupation with grubbiness that serves as a subtext to point out that the world of Oceania is the inevitable result when the beauty of individuality is removed and the uncaring and life-denying collective psychology of the state is substituted. When the only ones in a society who seek to celebrate their independence of mind and body can do so knowing full well that their discovery is certain,  then their relationship takes on a significance that is worth the terrible cost.  For most of the book, Winston and Julia tap dance around each other before finding out that each is not alone. When they couple sexually, their orgasm is a political statement.  The next logical step is to find others like themselves.  They believe that Winston's boss, O'Brien, is a kindred soul who is also a member of the secret brotherhood.  He gives them a book to read which explains the principles by which the group's members live.  Ironically, to become a member of this group dictates that both Winston and Julia must merge into the group's collective consciousness more thoroughly than demanded by Big Brother for his group, the symbol of the party that governs Oceania.  Their relation is detected nearly at once, but the party allows them to continue until it decides to arrest them.  O'Brien is really a traitor to the probably non-existent brotherhood, and it is he who interrogates both Winston and Julia.  O'Brien is described as an aging but still vigorous torturer.  In fact, he uses his wrinkled face as a metaphor for the futility of Winston to seek to enhance his own psychological life by engaging in forbidden love.  Winston is thoroughly beaten, humiliated, broken.  His de-evolution from Thinking Man to Orthodox Man is both rapid and irreversible.  As he stares into the mirror, O'Brien tells him that if Winston believes himself to be the last free thinking man on earth, then the wreck that stares back at him merely punctuates the party claim that the individual counts not at all in the political scheme of things.  When Winston acknowledges that he now loves Big Brother, the reader can see that this love is not the love of emotion but one of indoctrinated and inculcated values, and thus not worthy of the term 'love' at all. The tragic irony is that the reader can see this even if Winston Smith cannot.	2002-07-24
US	49818928	R302ZS2CBW54BZ	0446610410	203640457	The 36-Hour Day: A Family Guide to Caring for Persons with Alzheimer Disease, Related Dementing Illnesses, and Memory Loss in Later Life (3rd Edition)	Books	5	15	15	N	N	Hope Exists	One of the most heart-wrenching experiences that adult children have to face is the knowledge that mom or dad is mentally whithering away bit by bit right in front of their eyes. When this happens, these children often do not know where to turn for help or guidance. In THE THIRTY-SIX HOUR DAY by Mace and Rabins, what can be done and what must be done is clearly outlined. It is tragic that the majority of readers of this book are the ones who now find themselves in that unhappy circumstance. Mace and Rabins explain exactly what typically happens to senior parents whose mental and physical faculties erode with the passing of time. The most common culprits are Alzheimer's and Parkinson's diseases. Mace and Rabins explain the nature of these and other similar crippling diseases. When senior parents are affected, not only their lives are turned upside-down. All too frequently, the lives of their children are affected too, sometimes ruinously. A secondary tragedy is that this time of decline need not be as ruinous as first perceived. Mace and Rabins set up a step-by-step plan to insure that this pain of decline is minimized and attempts to maintain basic human dignity for those affected are maximized. The authors suggest that the children of those affected reach out to available community services to include health care workers, insurance aids, nursing homes, and public and private resources. They emphasize that the families of those who are undergoing mental decline need not necessarily face financial and emotional collapse. There are definitely many courses of action that nearly every family can take, even those families of modest financial resources. Last week, I helped to put my father who suffers from Alzheimer's and Parkinson's diseases into a quality nursing home in Fort Lauderdale. Thanks to this wonderful book, what could have been a major tragedy for my family became instead another obstacle that was successfully surmounted and one more confused old man regaineda semblance of the dignity that he felt sure was long gone.	2002-07-20
US	49818928	R1L3TLXMQUXP3G	055380202X	135474617	The Universe in a Nutshell	Books	4	4	4	N	N	The Universal Nutshell: Hard to Crack	In THE UNIVERSE IN A NUTSHELL, Stephen Hawking does what many other science writers have tried, with varying degrees of success, to do for the last twenty years: to explain how the universe came into existence.  The difference between Hawking and these other writers is that he has the rare ability to take some truly convoluted concepts and can explain them in such a way that the typical college graduate can comprehend.  Make no mistake.  This book is not for the academically challenged.  It was written for those who have a predisposition for understanding as to why the sky is as big and as black as it is.  The number of PHDs in physics or astronomy in this country is quite small relative to the total population, and what is contained in this book is surely not new to them.  But what of those who are well-educated in other disciplines?  This book is geared to them.<BR>       Hawking likes colorful pictures and three-dimensional illustrations.  As the reader plows through some prose that,like the very quarks that Hawking analyzes, resists further simplistic reduction, his use of visual aids is at once both entertaining and informative.  His focus is on Einstein's twin theories of relativity, black holes, time travel, branes, and my personal favorite: Star Trek concepts and characters used to elaborate key points. His purpose in not to grind his own axe or to trump a favored theory but rather to update the educated reader as to what passes for the latest cutting edges in cosmological theories.  Other reviewers of this book have damned him with faint praise by noting his acknowledged personal eccentricities.  I did not find any serious problems with this.  Yes, he does place himself squarely in the Star Trek universe by playing holographic poker with Einstein, Newton, and Commander Data, but as an inveterate poker player myself, I have often heard some Universal Truisms bandied about a felt-tipped table. One of his most controversial issues lies more in biology than cosmology.  Hawking mentions Star Trek as unrealistic in that he expects humans them to be quite unlike humans now.  He notes that as computers increase their computational power exponentially every ten years or so, he assumes that human brain power ought to show a similar surge.  What these future humans will look like, he does not say, but he closes his chapter on Star Trek with the following warning: 'But by the end of the next millennium, if we get there, the difference from Star Trek will be fundamental.' Whatever differences may exist between the human species of today and that of tomorrow is surely less important than maintaining our inner sense of what it means to be human.  In Hawking's nutshell, the universe is plenty big enough to accomodate whatever lifeform humanity may morph into.  It is only the wisdom of thinkers like Hawking who can make the rest of us contemplate the possibilities of who we are and where we are going.	2002-07-17
US	49818928	R3QA7XIBYCAQ1X	0312868944	265350166	Fox on the Rhine	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Fox on the Rhine:Exciting 'What If' Hurt by Sloppy Structure	Douglas Niles and Michael Dobson in FOX ON THE RHINE consider the major consequences of a minor act, a sneeze, on the way the Second World War turned out. On July 20, 1944 at Hitler's command bunker in East Prussia, Colonel Claus Von Stauffenberg placed a suitcase bomb under the large oaken table where he knew that Adolf Hitler would be reviewing the progress of a war that was rapidly going from bad to worse. It was Von Stauffenberg's opinion that with Hitler out of the way, he and a group of high ranking officers on the General Staff could arrest Himmler and neutralize the SS and Gestapo, thus allowing a newly reconstituted government led by Erwin Rommel to end the war with Germany reasonably intact. In reality, one of Hitler's officers moved the suitcase far enough from the Fuhrer so that the explosion hurt but did not kill him. In FOX ON THE RHINE, this officer left the bomb in its place, so that the explosion killed Hitler. At this point, the prophetic vision of Niles and Dobson weaves an intricate plot of how the plotters' attempt to control the government failed, allowing the Reichsfuhrer of the SS, Heinrich Himmler to consolidate power and take the war in an unexpected direction. With Himmler in charge, the new fuhrer puts Rommel in command of the western front, brokers a surprise peace treaty with Stalin then frees up German troops to be diverted westward to stop the Allied invasion of France, and orders the manufacture and delivery of hundreds of the new jet fighters that will regain Nazi control of the air. <BR> There is much to like about FOX ON THE RHINE. The tale of a new ending to an old war is entertaining enough in that it allows individuals to emerge from the jumble of war as recognizable personalities that had a cumulative impact on both sides. There are many real life people in the book. In particular the gentlemanly brilliance of Erwin Rommel, the fox of the title, is emphasized as the converse to Himmler, who comes across as the petty, self-serving bureaucrat that he was. Hitler and Stalin are minor players on this stage of war, with Hitler dying early and Stalin appearing late. American generals Eisenhower, Patton, and Bradley are pictured pretty much the way they were in our timeline. There are included a number of characters on both sides who are surely made up for the purposes of plot advancement. The most interesting ones include a vicious, American-hating Luftwaffe pilot named Krueger, who lived only to fly the new jets to kill Americans. Balancing Krueger's nastiness is the kindlier, German sergeant Clausen, who serves as Rommel's driver.<BR> The major problem with this book lies not in its basic assumption of altering history, but in the writing style and structure of the narrative that all too often calls attention to itself, thus distancing the reader from the threads of the plot.<BR>First, there is no single dramatic focus of interest. Field Marshall Rommel, in his earnestness of purpose, comes the closest, but the reader is left with wondering if the Desert Fox is supposed to be the 'hero.' This problem might have been avoided had the authors avoided the 'clutter the chapter' method used by Tom Clancy in his novels as Clancy uses so many characters in so many subplots that the reader is tempted to skim rather than read the narrative. Niles and Dobson's book would have benefitted greatly with a judicious editor's pruning hook, lopping off distracting scenes and characters such as the annoying and frequent letters written by Sgt. O'Dell, whose only function seems to be an omniscient commentator on the unfolding plot. Further, since many of the characters are German, it is necessary for them to speak English; however, mixing up their conversations with Germanic, 'Jawohl, mein Fuhrer,' serves only to remind the reader of who is speaking. <BR> There is much to like about FOX ON THE RHINE, but there is also much that needed to be done on the outlining stage, prior to the writing. The sneeze that so altered the war might have had its literary counterpart in that editorial red pen, the result of which would have transformed a moderately good book into one that truly sizzled rather than popped.	2002-07-15
US	49818928	R3LDW35391355D	0671536095	776780668	The Star Trek Encyclopedia	Books	5	9	12	N	N	This Encyclopedia Can Be Read, Not Just Used for Reference	As the Star Trek Universe got bigger, with more spin offs, movies, books, and alien races, so did the base for its Star Trek fans, so it is no surprise that the standard and definitive one volume work on the subject should get bigger too. The newest edition of THE STAR TREK ENCYCLOPEDIA is a monumental reference book that is as comprehensive as it is physically imposing. In its more than 700 pages of a continually snowballing phenomenon that was the birthchild of the late Gene Roddenberry, the rabid Star Trek fan (who else would read this?) can cross-reference every human, alien, planet, creature, ship or any other proper noun that was mentioned even once in any of the Star Trek series or its descendants.  Michael and Denise Okuda, the married duo who did most of the writing acknowledge in the Introduction that a large cast of helpers were required to painstakingly find and correct errors from past editions. This book is loaded with hundreds of beautiful photographs and drawings, each of which illustrate one item in the Star Trek universe.  As in most encyclopedias, this one is in alphabetical order, with each entry given a complete description/analysis.  Bold-Faced terms indicate they are further defined under their own names elsewhere.  For example, do you remember the episode from the original series about the mirror universe with an evil Kirk and bearded Spock, where unreliable crew members were put in the 'agony booth?' Well, the term 'agony booth' is listed and fully described with appropriate cross-references.  Unlike other reference texts, this one has a separate supplement to include references to episodes in the various ST reincarnations after the 1996-1997 seasons.  Finally, it contains additional helpful sections on historical timelines of major events, complete listing of all episodes from each spinoff, and a cast of all characters who ever appeared in any show.<BR>      Exactly, what is the purpose of such a text?  I know why I use it.  When I see an episode that mentions even off-handedly a minor reference to a singular event, I flip open this book to see if it is there.  And it always is.  Now if I could only be so motivated about the mundane details of my non-Star Trek life. And that perhaps best defines who likes Star Trek and why.	2002-07-11
US	49818928	RC13R1TXVBZLP	088001654X	996921601	Fail Safe	Books	5	2	7	N	N	Fail-Safe: Accidents Just Don't Happen	FAIL-SAFE is the most shocking thriller of the Cold War. The premise that a concatenation of mechanical failure coupled with deliberate human intervention based on computer logic could result in a nuclear death for both Moscow and New York is as timely today as when it was written in 1962.  Authors Eugene Burdick and Harvey Wheeler use the deeply buried War Room in Omaha as the setting for most of the action.  It is there that the nation's top military brass must decide what to do when Group Six flies past its fail safe point on its way to drop two atomic bombs on Moscow.  The characterization of Walter Groteschele, special advisor to a Kennedy-type President, winds up as the surprise dramatic center.  Groteschele is a Jewish writer and adviser on issues of nuclear security, but as the time draws nearer to advise the President, the reader can sense that when Groteschele is talking about the options available to the President, he is really talking more about himself, reliving the hurt that his fellow Jews suffered at the hands of the Nazis.  He advises the President to follow up this accidental launch with a full-scale nuclear assault on the Soviet Union.  Backing up Groteschele, Colonel Cascio refuses to accept the more cautionary advice of his superiors not to attack in force by trying to sieze control of the command bunker at gun point. The President orders his own planes to overtake and attack Flight Six, but they fail, and he is faced with the unforgiving inevitability of convincing the Russians that the destruction of their capitol was a mistake.  His only option: to destroy New York City with the same type bombs that fell on Moscow. This is done and peace returns to a badly shaken world.<BR>     The pace of FAIL-SAFE is rapid and suggests that in the real-life occurrence of such an event, all decisions must be equally rapid and decisive.  It is both disturbing and comforting to know that for each Groteschele advising escalation to each American and Russian leader, that such criers of doom often give away their true inner motivation in tones clear enough for all men of reason to heed.	2002-07-06
US	49818928	R2LW1MD78LMLQE	0345311485	12581581	On the Beach	Books	4	4	5	N	N	On the Beach: Style As Metaphor	Stories that deal with the the end of the world often suggest that end through the style of the author.  Those who have read ON THE BEACH often complain of the deadening weight of a style that is long on sensory description but short on memorable character interaction.  Yet, that is precisely the point that author Nevil Shute wants to make of his apocalyptic view of worldwide nuclear death.  By the time the book begins, the plot mechanism has already been set.  A nuclear war has broken out, with most of the world's major centers of population put to the torch.  The reader does not see this; in fact he hears about it only second hand.  The stark impression that Shute draws comes mostly from dialogue with surviving Australians, who have as yet been untouched by the clouds of killing radiation that have swept the rest of the world.  Unlike other post-war dramas, this one shows the aftermath, survivors who decide when and how to react in their respective ways. The primary focus is on American submarine commander Dwight Towers, who has successfully landed his sub in an Australian port.  He strikes up a relation with a local woman, Moira Davidson, and they are well aware that the nuclear clock is ticking on their lives.  The immunity that Australia has had is but temporary.  The radiation that has spread worldwide is now slowly infiltrating their air.  The dramatic center of the book is not so much human-based, but idea-based.  Dwight and Moira, and other couples in the book, carry on as best they can, but the only real choice left to all of them is when to end their lives via suicide pills before the poison cloud does that for them. It is noteworthy what they do before they take the death pills.  Most simply do what they have always done, the normal mundane things that marked so much of their pre-war lives.  A few do dangerous things like driving in races that produce fatalities for most of the drivers.  The unspoken point that Shute makes and many readers miss is the connection between what he says and how he says it.  The end of the world and all life is truly a desensitizing concept.  Shute's style of excessive detail and lack of human interaction suggest the feelings of the major characters. Dwight, Moira. and the others are both physically and psychologically disconnected from one another.  By the end of the novel, they are dead or dying.  The gap between a still surviving Dwight and Moira is emphasized by his decision to spend his last day on earth sinking his sub with all hands aboard rather than spend that last day together.  ON THE BEACH is truly a depressing novel that shows the physical interactions between the dead and dying as less important than their psychic distancing.  Sometimes, the expression of fear and gloom are better understood by focusing on how the characters feel rather than on what they do.  No one ever said that a writing style must be perky.	2002-07-04
US	49818928	R15D0MGGWM5MAR	0393040054	610403523	Lend Me Your Ears: Great Speeches in History	Books	5	43	47	N	N	Lend Me Your Ears: The Great Speech is the Rare Speech	William Safire in his LEND ME YOUR EARS does not purport how to tell the novice speaker how to step up to the podium and knock 'em dead with a fluid barrage of words.  Instead, his goal is more modest, to figure out why some speeches have reverberated through the acoustic corridors of history while others have fizzled out with nary an echo to record their passing.  Surprisingly enough, he acknowledges that a magnificent speaking voice can not turn verbal mush into thrilling oratory. No one knows what Abe Lincoln truly sounded like, but we honor his Gettysburg Address as a sublime example of stirring words.  What Safire does is to give the reader a sort of ten commandents that the great speakers of the past must have followed.  Ironically, this list is not something that one can examine, nor can compare to what the speaker brings to the podium to exclaim,'Ah ha, this is what I lack!'  Among the magical list includes a variation on the old saw, 'Tell 'em what you're going to tell 'em; then tell 'em; then tell 'em what you told 'em.' Safire translates this as a smooth flow that invites a rhythm to the delivery.  He adds that this smooth flow must not be the smoothness of uninterrupted rhythm; there ought to be a variation that allows the audience to catch a breath at just the right point. Other necessities include occasion (the speaker is at the right point at the right time); forum (the 'where' the speech is given); focus (what's the purpose or point); theme; word choice. <BR>  What Safire does with this list is to quote generally agreed upon memorable speeches and list them by category, speeches of patriotism, revolution and war, tributes and elegies, debates, trials, gallows and farewell, sermons, inspirational, lectures, social responsibility, finally closing with speeches of media, politics, and commencement. Each category has some dozen examples, with a prefatory explanatory essay per.  Some speeches have the added advantage of having been popularized in the media by recording or rehearsed performance.  I can still hear Marlon Brando as Mark Antony in 'Julius Caesar' rousing the crowd to a killing frenzy: 'If you have tears, prepare to shed them now.' Shakespeare used every one of Safire's requirements.  Getting Brando to say them was just a bonus. Who can forget Chief Joseph's closing words of the agony he felt over the destruction of his people by the white man: 'From where the sun now stands, I will fight no more forever.' Then there is FDR's war declaration against Japan, replete with its sonorous cadences that begin with the critical phrase, 'day of infamy.' <BR>       Great speeches are often not great until after the fact.  Lincoln felt that his speech at Gettysburg was a failure since it met only polite applause.  Others generate the unmistakable cachet of greatness right away.  Reading LEND ME YOUR EARS will not make you a great speaker, but it can give clues as to how and why the power of the spoken word can shake societies to their core.	2002-07-03
US	49818928	R211DACQNMGBMC	0304350559	263281422	Last Stand! Famous Battles Against the Odds (Cassell Military Classics)	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Last Stand: Bravery is Only Sometimes Enough	Conventional thinking to explain why certain groups of armed men are willing to fight to the last man and the last bullet usually revolve around the obvious: esprit de corps, Prussian style training and discipline, absolute loyalty to a charismatic commander, bitter hatred of the enemy, extreme altruism--the list goes on and on.  What Bryan Perrett adds in LAST STAND to a mixture that rarely contains all the above is the small number of those willing to die for a cause.  Surprisingly enough for the non-military historian is his claim that last stands historically did not involve elite units who presumably would be the most likely candidates for self-sacrifice.  The case studies represent a sampling of bravery that ranges from the well-known massacres of Custer at the Little Big Horn to further massacres at the Alamo and to unexpected triumphs at Rorke's Drift.  Perrett analyzes thirteen battles all of which involved soldiers willing to fight to the death, and in most of them, they did.  Perrett's expertise in wartime tactics and his fluid prose style help to explain why some are willing to die for a belief even if most are not.	2002-07-03
US	49818928	ROLY9R3KMXO8W	006273170X	697409547	Structuring Your Novel	Books	5	37	37	N	N	Structuring Your Novel: The One to Buy	Would be novelists most often write novels that never see the light of publishing day.  The reasons for rejection are as many as the number of things the writer can do wrong.  There are many books that teach How To Write a Novel (and I've read most of them), but only STRUCTURING YOUR NOVEL by Meredith and Fitzgerald discuss how to do it well. Both authors know what works and what does not work in getting a novel published.  They recommend that after the novelist thinks of His Bright Idea, he ought to look at his idea in the way that an agent or publisher will. They recommend concepts as basic as the following:<BR>1) Can the intention, attitude, and purpose be written as one<BR>   sentence each?  <BR>2) How can the conflict be developed?<BR>3) Who or what is the protagonist, setting, significance?<BR>4) How will the author create causally related events?<BR>5) Is there a dramatic driving device for the protagonist?<BR>6) What is the viewpoint? Omniscient? (avoid) First Person? <BR>   (Maybe) Third Person (best bet)<BR>7) How will the author inform the reader about the relevant <BR>   details of the novel?<BR>8)What about dialogue? (when/how much) Characterization? (how)<BR>     The above points are usually omitted by rookie authors, and their ignorance of them is the most common reason for rejection.<BR>The value behind forcing a writer to think like a publisher is to anticipate pitfalls and correct them before too many hastily written words hit the paper.  This book should be required reading for anyone who hopes to write and publish novels, and not have to wonder why their career is going nowhere.	2002-07-03
US	49818928	R3UYUSK7V1S53C	0787657557	779877251	Videohound's Golden Movie Retriever 2002	Books	5	4	4	N	N	If You Like Movies, Buy Ths Book	Unlike the reading of a novel, a book like the VIDEOHOUND'S GOLDEN MOVIE RETRIEVER can be used as opposed to be read for years.  Unless you don't mind plunking down $23 every year for the most up to date copy, one will do quite nicely for years.  In judging the usefulness of such a text, it is a good idea to know why you wished to buy it in the first place.  Most people who like videos are like me--more or less.  They want to know about a movie they have not seen as a preliminary to renting or buying it or perhaps they wish to read about the cast and crew of a favorite film as an enhancement to the pleasure of seeing it for the upteenth time.  Whatever the motivation, this book gives the reader in one volume all he needs to know about movies on video. The bulk of this book is an alphabetical listing of most but not all movies--domestic, foreign, and made for tv--that have routinely appeared either on television or in your video store.  Following the name of the film in boldface, the reviewing editor assigns bones from one to four.  Then comes year released and its MPAA rating. The meat of the review is the description itself, which ranges from a simple and brief plot description without fanfare or sarcasm to an extended analysis of the interaction among the strands of the plot, characterization, dialogue, script, symbolism, personal anecdotes about cast and crew, and witty remarks that reflect the reviewer's biases. Then follows technical information such as color versus black/white, songs,length in minutes, cast, director, and awards won.  There are more than 1,000 pages of reviews with an average of 20-25 reviews per page, so you do the math. I was pleasantly surprised by the number of foreign films included. For those who like to read English subtitles, one can find many French, German, Chinese examples.  However, there was a decided lack of examples of Hispanic, Indian, Arab or other ethnic films not included in the Big Three.  Included after the reviews are sections not all of which I found particularly helpful. The Alternate Title List, Category List, Writer Index, Composer Index, and Cinematographer Index could have been dispensed with.  The useful section list includes the Category Index, Series List, Awards Index, Cast Index, and Director Index.<BR>     The VIDEOHOUND is a weighty text as it should be.  It covers eminently well, in a witty and informative way, about an area of culture that many of us have chosen to love.  The book, then, is really a treasure trove of memories buried and novel experiences waiting to be tasted.	2002-07-03
US	49818928	R36DBVG3IWQ0R3	0679772685	810809476	Hitler's Willing Executioners: Ordinary Germans and the Holocaust	Books	5	21	41	N	N	The Holocaust: Genocide is a Learned Response	When the victorious Allied armies broke down the gates to the concentration camps in Germany and Poland in 1945, they and the world learned of the mass killing that had been common knowledge throughout Germany. The resulting Nuremburg trials tended to focus on the punishment of targeted Nazi leaders who were tried and punished. The prevailing idea then was that it was the German leaders, not the German people, who were on trial. That concept of individual guilt seemed a natural part of academic Holocaust literature until Daniel Jonah Goldhagen suggested that what to the western mind was the unthinkable: Goldhagen claimed that the responsibility for the Holocaust must be placed squarely on the collective shoulders of the German people. His book, HITLER'S WILLING EXECUTIONERS, is his doctoral dissertation from Harvard that suggests that it simply was not possible for the entire Nazi party working in isolation to galvanize the entire social, economic, political, and military fabric of a country to work together in such harmony unless there was massive up and down the line support from the entire spectrum of German people. This astounding assertion on the surface seems to contradict the millennia-long belief that western ethics demands individual, not collective guilt, even for mass genocide. Goldhagen's thesis has come under predictable attack by many sources, chief of which is the collective work of Finklestein and Birn, who in their response called HISTORY ON TRIAL, basically say that Goldhagen is wrong to blame a nation of people for the acts of one subset of that people. I have read both texts, and there is nothing that Finklestein and Birn say that makes me disbelieve Goldhagen. They are not scholars of the Holocaust; they do not read German so they were in no position to judge Goldhagen's sources; their book had numerous errors that detract from the validity and believability of their thesis that collective guilt is wrong. Goldhagen could have avoided and anticipated the attack on his thesis of collective guilt had he pointed out that the flagrant and widespread antisemitism that was a fixture of Germany from top to bottom was a culturally and learned response that did cause an entire group of Germans to take either a direct hand in the killing or an indirect hand by turning aside their collective heads as they went about their daily business. In the introduction to his book, Goldhagen quotes a German police officer who dared to risk retribution by refusing to obey an order that he felt violated his ethics. Goldhagen rightly saw this as an example of how thoroughly entrenched was the possibility that Germans could have excused themselves from engaging in direct genocide. However, he could have added that this poisoning of the human mind and soul was to last only for as long as that nation chose to make it last. The collective guilt of the Germans during the Nazi era was a thoroughly well-earned one, but that does not mean that this guilt is to be passed on to future generations. The bulk of the response of Finklestein's and Birn's book is that Goldhagen implies that even today Germany should feel the burden of guilt. It should not, nor does Goldhagen say or suggest that it should. The core thesis of HITLER'S WILLING EXECUTIONERS stands firm, suggesting that hatred, prejudice, and just plain stupidity can indeed infect a nation's people, and if it does so again, then millions more must die while others still shake their heads and argue over how it started.	2002-07-01
US	49818928	R1DSFPPQHGEGCI	0028974549	10987476	Historical Atlas of Holocaust	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Atlas of the Holocaust: Maps Tell the Story	The Holocaust was such a singular event in the annals of evil that it is audacious for any one book to try to sum up its genesis and causes. The HISTORICAL ATLAS OF THE HOLOCAUST does both eminently well. The book is divided into nine sections:<BR>I: Europe Before the war<BR>II: The Holocaust in Eastern Europe<BR>III: Nazi Extermination Camps<BR>IV: The Holocaust in Western Europe<BR>V: The Holocaust in Central Europe<BR>VI: The Holocaust in Southern Europe and Hungary<BR>VII: Rescue and Jewish Armed Resistance<BR>VIII: Death Marches and Liberation<BR>IX: Postwar Europe 1945-1950<BR> Each section manages to take its topic and reduce it to maps and diagrams. Some of these pictorial aids are the type often seen in innocuous surroundings: encyclopedias, almanacs, high school texts. The first section contains a full color map of the European Jewish population circa 1933. This map serves to remind the reader what was lost. The numbers of living Jews then was comfortably large, measuring in the hundreds of thousands and the millions. Other pictures in the first section begin to use color and numbers as a way to force the reader to view history not as an impossibly long ago event that does not touch us now, but as a living reminder that behind each color, each number beat a heart that was most often Jewish, but was also Gypsy, Slav, priest, racially 'impure', the sick, the old, the non-Aryan. <BR> Some of these maps are the kind like a camera lens can produce for a 'big picture' effect. You can see a vast range of land, colors, cities, camps. Others allow the lens to zoom in for a street length image. You can see individual houses for each camp. It is almost as if the editors cannot decide what is the greater horror: to see death up close or from a distance. <BR> Each map and illustration is accompanied by text that is simply not available in one volume anywhere else. The list of camps well-described and well-illustrated is depressingly long:<br />Chelmno, Belzec, Treblinka, Auschwitz, Majdanek, Treblinka, Dachau, Ravensbrueck. The list seems endless, but it is necessary for all people who call themselves enlightented to plow through them all. The stories behind each dot on a map represent a chilling mixture of a centuries-long hatred of Jews with what these haters did with that hate. <BR> Numbers have a way of acting like an anaesthetic. Throughout this book, you wonder how and what and why did all this occur. The maps and numbers tell the answer for this generation to read to think. For the generation of the 'impure' in Europe in the early 1940s, the numbers were truly life and death. Reading this book ought to allow the next generation not to forget that.	2002-07-01
US	49818928	R2YXRGI00RH12E	0306807602	836723401	The Night Of The Long Knives: June 29-30, 1934	Books	4	25	27	N	N	Hitler Sharpens His Knives for Future Use	By 1934, the new German President and Fuhrer of the Nazi party faced competition for power and control from a source that he had once relied upon to grease his way to control over the German state.  This now unreliable source was the rowdy Sturmabteilung, the SA, the brown-shirted bully boys who had bashed in the heads of many an anti-Hitler opponent since the inception of the Nazi party in the early 1920s.  They numbered in the millions, but from Hitler's point of view they were fast becoming a nuisance.  They were wild, unpredictable, hooliganistic, and rumored to be rife with homosexual leaders.  Somehow they had to go, and go they did.  Max Gallo, in his NIGHT OF THE LONG KNIVES, details a sequence of events that had been building up for years since the 1920s, finally culminating in an orgy of the slaughter of the top leaders of the SA during the weekend of Saturday, June 30, 1934 to Monday, July 2.<BR>     Gallo begins 'in medias res' with the incarceration and execution of targeted SA officers:<BR>Edmund Schmidt, Gruppenfuhrer, SA shot<BR>Hans Joachim von Spreti-Weilbach, Standartenfuhrer, SA shot<BR>Hans Peter von Hydebreck, Gruppenfuhrer, SA shot<BR>Hans Heyn, Gruppenfuhrer, SA shot<BR>August Schneidhuber, Obergruppenfuhrer, SA shot<BR>     The ranks listed above were all of high rank, mostly brigadier general or higher.  The same day, the leader of the SA, Ernst Roehm, the most powerful man in Germany after Hitler, the commanding officer of a body of armed men many times larger than any other uniformed corps in Germany, was then begging for his life in a filthy jail cell.  He was offered a pistol to kill himself.  When he declined, one of the most vicious of sadists in the Schutzstaffel, the black-garbed SS, Theodore Eicke, blew a hole in Roehm's head with that same pistol.  <BR>       Gallo describes the events of that weekend on a daily and near hourly basis.  Each of his many chapters is a blueprint for the killing of those who should have kept their eyes and ears open to the clear signals that Hitler had been sending out.  Adolf Hitler felt threatened by the demands of the masses of the SA who were complaining that now was the time for massive social upheavel in Germany.  They shouted for jobs in the civilian sector, for posts of high rank in the regular army, and for a broom to sweep out from power those whom they deemed unreliable. <BR>Gallo notes Hitler's inability to eliminate the SA until he had the backing of the Wehrmacht, which would act in concert with the one force upon which he could rely absolutely, the SS,under Heinrich Himmler.  Hitler had to mollify Ernst Roehm until he was ready to use his long knives.  Gallo documents a letter from Hitler to Roehm dated December 31, 1933, which concludes with, 'I must thank you, Ernst Roehm, for the inestimable services you have rendered to nationalism and the German people.'  While writing this letter, Hitler was getting ready for the events of the June 30 weekend.  Within the space of that time, hundreds of SA were rounded up and summarily shot.  The newspaper headlines following that weekend blared out in huge headlines: TRAITORS OF SA SHOT!  Hitler's grip on power was now secure.<BR>      THE NIGHT OF THE LONG KNIVES details what had been only before sketchily known, the day by day elimination of those who truly thought themselves to be in the front line of Hitler's best defense against Jews and godless communists.  Almost to a last man, they thought that the order to kill had originated with someone other than Hitler.  Most died shouting 'Heil Hitler' even as the bullet crashed through their thick skulls. Max Gallo's book serves as a minor seer for the next decade.  If the Fuhrer could so easily eliminate those closest to him, then what about those in the SS who survived the purge?  Their survival, as it turned out, was only temporary as they learned that a long sharp blade often cuts in both directions.	2002-07-01
US	49818928	R1V6EV5E631IYU	0140138862	900807093	The Friendly Shakespeare: A Thoroughly Painless Guide to the Best of the Bard	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Unsanitizing Shakespeare	How do most people come to know Shakespeare?  The vast majority read a play or two in high school or college, barely understand them, and never ever have occasion to think of them again.  And that's too bad.  Norrie Epstein in THE FRIENDLY SHAKESPEARE reaches out to those who had been forced to swallow whole a set of plays without their ever wondering what it is they are trying to digest.  For those who wish to reacquaint themselves with WS, her book is invaluable.  Nearly all one volume editions of his works are written in deadly earnest prose, usually in teeny tiny print, as if to emphasize their scholarly intent. Yes, most of what a reader needs to know is there in that volume, but his chances of either finding it or of connecting a myriad of linguistic and thematic dots are nearly zip.  What Epstein does is to isolate in BIG letters her points.  She writes easy to understand analyses of that point.  If one is preparing to read, say, 'Titus Andronicus,' one of WS's early efforts, then her discussion of the historical background and the play's use of bloody mutilation can ease one into a more technical, scholarly digression available in other texts about the play's latent anti-feminist or pro-Freudian elements.  Also useful are areas that high school teachers try to avoid: the 'bawdy' elements. It would be a shame for a thoroughly bored student to miss all the phallic symbolism in 'Hamlet.' Now he won't have to.	2002-06-30
US	49818928	R1GVMIUTSQP5R7	0155126105	299088074	The Complete Signet Classic Shakespeare	Books	5	43	43	N	N	So You Want to Read Shakespeare? This Book is the One	When you go to a bookstore to buy a good one volume edition of Shakespeare's works, you will certainly find a wide range of choices.  Most people who buy one edition do so because it is that edition only that their literature professor demands.  However, before you buy consider what you will need in that one edition: (a) Does it include every word Shakespeare ever wrote? Some do not. (b) Are the character's names spelled out each time? Abbreviations can be confusing.  (c) Does each play contain a coherent and insightful introduction? Again some do not.  (d) Are there helpful side or bottom notes?  (e) Do the editors include a wide range of explanatory essays including his biography, his Globe Theater, his fellow actors, the contemporary dramatic background, his writing style, his usage of English, the intellectual background, and separate overviews of his tragedies, his comedies, and his histories?  Part of the problem that students have in reading and understanding Shakespeare is that they do not see the connecting but subtle links from play to play.  THE COMPLETE SIGNET SHAKESPEARE, edited by Sylvan Barnet, does all this and more.  To take just one play as example, consider 'Julius Caesar.' The contributing editors, William and Barbara Rosen, write eloquently not only of the themes and ideas of the play, but they manage to connect how the audience of Shakespeare's day saw the action on stage.  Without this background, then the reasons behind Anthony's ability to stir up his listener's at Caesar's funeral to a killing frenzy go unnoticed.  There are more recent editions than this one (1972), but new does not mean better.  This one improves with age.	2002-06-30
US	49818928	R3TX8CGDH432AT	0451167716	638098276	The Godfather (Signet)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	The Godfather: It Stands the Test of Time	The enduring impact of any novel can be measured only decades after its release.  The publishing business is replete with hot bestsellers of the day, but have long since faded from public consciousness.  Mario Puzo's THE GODFATHER is certain to occupy that middle ground between the timeless classics of Faulkner, Hemingway, and Fitzgerald and those of the still popular general favorites of Margaret Mitchell and Stephen King.  When one looks at the ingredients for a novel with staying power, whatever ingredients one finds, surely THE GODFATHER has them.  Discounting the obvious: gripping prose, character evolution, sex paired off with violence, strong protagonists, quirky secondary characters, and memorable lines, the primary element that gives the book as much interest today as when it was first released is that Puzo declares that there is a universal world order to things that man in his greed, his stupidity, his viciousness cannot long deter.  This world order is the family.  It matters not if the family is nuclear or extended.  At the core of each family must be the patriarch, a Vito Corleone, who must have the vision to plan for his family and their future.  The patriarch does not pay attention to such petty details as government law.  What counts is his law that perpetuates his vision unto the next several generations.  The difference between success in governments and families and failure in them lies not in geography, economics, or even religion, but in whether the alpha-male patriarch can combine purpose with vision.  Puzo often makes the point clear.  The Godfather wonders how it was possible for the Nazis to grab power only to waste their resources in a war that if he had orchestrated, Germany would have triumphed.  He looks at the competing families and their respective crime bosses.  During a meeting following Sonny's execution by the same people he now addresses, he is mature enough a patriarch not to let personal animosity get in the way of good business.  He sees that the other Mafia chiefs have numerous flaws: money, women, style, all of which mark them as unfit to propagate their progeny.  In his own family, two sons out of three are unfit.  It is only Michael, the 'good' son, that Vito Corleone sees as worthy to wear the mantle.  The inner tragedy of the GODFATHER is that to develop the vision that Don Corleone deems necessary to rule his family, the heir apparent must lose himself in the vision of another, thereby cutting himself off from his own unbuilt legacy.  It is this sense of family, vision, and twisted legacy that has enthralled readers for decades.  A vision lost is a timeless tragedy.	2002-06-30
US	49818928	RRLEMANVYD1IO	0465038514	938064545	The Last Three Minutes: Conjectures About The Ultimate Fate Of The Universe (Science Masters Series)	Books	3	5	6	N	N	The Last 3 Minutes: Just Like The First 3?	Most cosmologists pretty well agree that the seeds of the end of the universe are inextricably connected with its genesis. Oddly enough, these cosmologists further agree that they probably know more about the universe's beginning than its end. Paul Davies, in his 1994 THE LAST THREE MINUTES, posits not only one ending that might take three minutes, but also several others of varying time closures. Davies mentions that at the birth of this universe there probably was a very slight excess of baryonic matter over non-baryonic. This slight excess almost certainly (notice how I often qualify my assertions with 'probably' and 'almost certainly'? Can't help it) did not matter very much in the pre-exponential inflationary state, but as our nascent universe exploded under the impetus of the false vacuum pressure pushing outward, it went from sub-proton size to a grapefruit size in a trillionth trillionth of a nano-second. As I read this, I saw that Mr. Davies has the right knack useful in explaining highly technical material. He clearly presents the conventional wisdom of the start of our universe. However, it is when he delves into its end that he begins to attract hostile critics like Leslie Brown, who clearly is upset with Davies' assertions about (a) the amount of dark matter in the universe that Davies believes will cause a Big Crunch and (b) Davies' speculations about other and more fanciful ways the universe could end. Davis suggests that our universe could end without warning if the current vacuum state that has existed for the last fifteen billion years should unexpectedly slide into a still lower state. Now this, despite Mr.Brown's anger, is still reasonably possible. There is nothing in physics that forbids such a slide. However, Mr.Davies branches off into other areas that while enjoyable to contemplate have not a shred of proof to indicate their possibility. Davies suggests that a Uni-mind of beings that may exist nano-seconds before the Big Crunch can play mindtricks and draw out a 'virtual' universe that need not correspond to clock time, thereby eternalizing the existence of that mind. This may be so, but I see nothing in physics that states it must be so. <BR> While the reliability of the evidence that suggests that we live in a closed universe, doomed one day to cease expansion and retreat into the same nothingness from which it came, has recently been held less reliable than a belief in the opposite, a forever expansion, still I am not quite so quick to relegate Paul Davies and his mixture of accepted truth with unaccepted conjecture to the cosmic black hole of discarded ideas. Just because I do not ardently trumpet his ideas as linked to my own, I still like to think that in a book designed more for the layman than for the professional, enjoyment and not elucidation ought to rank high as to why one read it in the first place.	2002-06-28
US	49818928	R2ICCOMV4EQ9FG	1857981685	453186682	Isaac Asimov's Caliban	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Caliban: A Stranger In A Strange Brave New World	It must be daunting for any writer to pick up the threads of the popular works of a deceased author. Roger MacBride Allen, in CALIBAN, has had the nerve to write what clearly is but the first in a new series of novels set in Asimov's pre-Foundation robot series--and has pulled it off. Allen has used elements of Asimov's style and has improved on it, eliminating much of the static preachiness that so often stilted the Master's canon.<br /> In CALIBAN, Allen writes of a new type of robot, one that is not bound by the iron-clad strictures of the sacred Three Laws. The robot Caliban is accused of murder, and since it is publicized that he is a non-Three Law robot, he is pursued so that he may be disassembled. The plot involves the intricate working out of the details that relate to his supposed guilt. The charm of the novel lies in Allen's ability to plug in the philosophical holes that Asimov left in his Robot series. Why exactly were robots built? What has caused some humans (Spacers) to rely on robots for their very lives and others (Settlers) to hate robots enough to write them out of Settler history books? And finally, what is the future relationship between Spacers, Settlers, and robots? Mr. Allen does a superb job of tying together the disparate threads of Asimov while still managing to weave a gripping tapestry of his own that can stand on its own.	2002-06-28
US	49818928	R308SJ8940XN7S	0380790564	272354477	Eater	Books	2	6	8	N	N	Eater: Once Again Humanity Defeats A God	Space is pretty big, so it stands to reason that intelligent life must exist somewhere Out There.  Most authors who write of non-human life tend to think anthropomorphically and make the aliens look and think sort of the way that we do.  Other authors have the vision to make their aliens not solid in the sense that humans are.  Gregory Benford, in EATER, has chosen to make his alien an intelligent black hole that has designs on uploading the intelligence of selected members of the human race.  Now there is nothing inherently unbelievable with giving an alien intelligence that has no fleshly container.  Fred Hoyle in THE BLACK CLOUD posited much the same,but in Hoyle's case, the cloud was given a credible existence and motivation.  Benford's thinking black hole may be reasoning, but it can't be too smart as it allows a very new species, human beings, to outwit a creature that had been gobbling up innumerable species for their brains for billions of years.<BR>     Part of the problem in maintaining the reader's interest is nothing more prosaic than Benford's irritating prose style.  He often spends page after page describing an event in such convoluted stream of consciousness that the reader has difficulty understanding even on a basic level what is happening.  Benford likes to pepper his pages with inside jokes and witticisms that I feel sure he sees necessary as a tension breaker.  Had the tension been truly palpable, then the occasional witty remark could be justified.  As for the Eater itself, Benford presents it as one who is so godlike in its omnipotence that it deigns to speak in the psuedo-literary gibberish style that is learned from eavesdropping on Earth's radio transmissions.  I would think that a creature with an near infinite ability to process data would be able to reply in a style that did not stamp it as a faulty computer run amuck.  I had a problem with how the creature was confronted.  The hero, Kingsley Dart, soon realizes that if the Eater cannotbe destroyed conventionally using nuclear devices, then maybe an electrowave pulse beam shot at its metaphorical heart, the event horizon, just might short circuit it.  And of course, he is right, and humanity lives to see another day.<BR>     Ultimately, this book fails to engage the reader in that the author tries too hard to show off his vast knowledge of things astronomical but does not allow for a multi-billion year old mind to anticipate that a lowly species like humanity could turn the creature's greatest strength against it, proving yet again that pulling victory out of a magician's hat at the last moment did not work for the ancient Greeks nor does it work in the here and now.	2002-06-28
US	49818928	R2P7HDF3FIKGK6	0140444335	679195868	The Conquest of Gaul (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	58	58	N	N	To Conquer the World, First Conquer Yourself	Julius Caesar was one of the truly pivotal people in recorded history.  Most non-historians know him as the one who was stabbed by Brutus on the Ides of March. It is almost as if Caesar sprang full-grown to grab the reigns of power from the Senate in Rome.  Yet Caesar had a fairly long life before he became First Citizen of Rome.  He was a successful general and a talented historian who saw world events with the dispassionate eye of one who felt supremely confident that his tenure as an army general was but the last stop before his ascension to ultimate power.  In his CONQUEST OF GAUL, Caesar uses the third person point of view to punctuate his tacit assumption that unfolding events ought to be divorced as far as possible from the one witnessing them.  This writing technique also served to symbolize his stated goal: to conquer Gaul.  To him, Gaul was a land of barbarian tribes, with each possessing formidable numbers and fierce fighters.  These tribes and their leaders were enormously emotional, wildly unpredictable, and more dangerous as individuals than as organized units.  Caesar knew that to beat them, he could not be as them.  They were emotional, he coldly calculating.  They were not efficient in massed groups, his legions had to be. Caesar was the ultimate practitioner of the divide and conquer school.  He picked off his enemies one at a time, like bobbing heads on a shooting gallery.  The Atuatucii, the Nervii, the Helvetians all fought ferociously, sometimes winning minor victories, but it was Caesar who won the ones that counted.  He transformed his legions into extensions of his personality.  They fought well as masses against overwhelming odds, not for their pay, or hope of plunder, or even for glory, but for their commander.  Caesar's iron will and resolve filled his legions with hope and his enemies with despair.  It was only when Caesar was recalled to Rome that the Gauls decided that now was the time to seek a new leader to strike down the Roman eagle.  During this battle against Vercingetorix and his earlier ones against lesser chiefs, Caesar sees each battle as the logical working out of a master plan, that when combined with the bravery and training of his troops in co-ordinated combat, could crush a loud but awkward foe.  As he writes, one can visualize his intended audience, not the reader of this review, but the purple-robed senators back in Rome sweating out the increasing victories of a man who seemed fated to return to the Capitol to tell them their business.  His calmness in battle was matched only by his calmness with a stylus.  It is truly ironic that it was this same calm that led him to discount the excited warnings of a Mark Antony, who tried to tell Caesar of plotters, that led to his downfall.	2002-06-28
US	49818928	R2OCKGW7WVSJYP	0062700723	213392716	Masterpieces of American Literature (Masterpieces of ... Series)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Masterpieces Of American Literature: For All Lit Majors	Over the years editor Frank N. Magill has focused attention of the classics to several generations of readers. What he tries and usually succeeds in doing is to make comprehensible all genres of literature from several cultures. His latest effort, MASTERPIECES OF AMERICAN LITERATURE is a worthy addition to the serious reader of the sorts of literature that are taught in the mainstream American universities. In MAL, the contributing reviewers describe 199 classics ranging from the colonial to the modern age. Each entry includes basic genre data: date of publication, type of work, author, locale, principal characters, plot summary, and critical evaluation. The critical evaluation sections tend to be the most informative since it is precisely here that the undergraduate reader will most likely find a vision that will come in handy at termpaper and exam time. <BR> There is an inherent flaw in summary books of this type, and regardless of how well such a book is written, the editors cannot avoid it. This flaw lies in the reader's acceptance of the editor's expertise in choosing representative works that tie in with the editors' stated intent. Now who am I to put my own puny vision above that of the distinguished and erudite editors?<BR>Still, since I am both a rational and critical thinker, Magill's choices, which include acts of commission as well as omission, often leave me gasping in disbelief. I have no problem with standard choices like Faulkner's AS I LAY DYING or Mark Twain's LIFE ON THE MISSISSIPPI or even thoroughly controversial ones like Nabokov's LOLITA, but too many literary near-misses, has-beens, and never-wases somehow wind up included at the expense of far more worthy contenders. Why include potboilers like Erskine's TOBACCO ROAD or routine westerners like McMurty's LONESONE DOVE? <BR> I would have appreciated an introduction that contained a rationale for Magill's choices. Had he approached the always dicey question of what makes one work of literaturestand out enough to be a 'masterpiece,' then the reader's ability to think about such abstact qualities as characters' impacting both on each other and on the reader might be stimulated enough to lead this reader to take the book of plot summaries and do something really daring--to read the work itself and draw his own conclusions. And that to me is the ultimate goal of any piece of criticism.	2002-06-27
US	49818928	R1UYJRWFG617GN	0393974871	82922035	The Norton Anthology of English Literature, Vol. 1	Books	3	51	74	N	N	The Norton: What We Say About It Says More About Us	As an undergraduate, I used to think that the canon of English literature was as fixed as were the stars tacked onto the heavens. Now as a professor myself, I realize that the stars above truly rotate, often in wild, unpredictable ways. If any reviewer wishes to review the latest edition of the NORTON ANTHOLOGY OF ENGLISH LITERATURE, that reviewer would find it wise to compare the evolution of the series from the first edition to the last. What changes have the editors wrought over the decades? What conclusions can anyone draw from these changes? Now these are weighty questions indeed, and there may be no adequate reply readily available. But I shall start with the obvious. (a) For whom is the Norton intended? Clearly the primary target audience is the undergraduate taking a two semester course in Masterpieces of English Literature. A secondary target would be those seeking to prepare for the GRE in English Literature. I think we can discount the second as a concern for the editors. Now who are the authors most likely to be analyzed in a one or two semester course, given the time limitations of a typical 15 meeting schedule? Some authors and works should be a given: Beowulf, Chaucer, More, Sidney, Marlowe, Shakespeare, Raleigh, Donne, Jonson, Marvell, Milton, Bacon, Hobbes, Butler, Dryden, Swift, Pope, Gray, Johnson, Boswell. That's quite a mouthful to digest in one semester. And look whom I have omitted: the Gawain poet, Everyman, Hooker, Wyatt & Surrey, Spenser, Skelton, Campion, Herrick, Herbert, Vaughn, Suckling, Burton, Bunyan, Defoe, Addison & Steele, Goldsmith. I defy any teacher to cover in any meaningful way even a smattering of the given, let alone the omitted. The question boils down to numbers, which in turn boil down to the ever shifting winds of literary political correctness. I can sense a change in the way this wind blows as I peruse the evolution of the Norton. Authors come and authors go, but bulk numbers remain. It is almost as if the editors wishto justify the inflated retail price by cramming in nearly 2,000 pages of literature, knowing full well that the vast majority of works and authors included will almost certainly never be used. And this brings me to (b). How to make the book more user friendly?<BR>There are some things the editors are doing right. I like the extended discussions of each period. These historical analyses are not mere digressions; they are needed to place the literature of that era in context, and the failure of the reader to do so will merely convince him that literature is not much different from science: a bunch of works, unconnected to anything. I also like the brief introductions to the various authors; they too are instructive. What I suggest now is something that is so commonsensical that I am sure it will never come to light. Back in high school, my lit texts were written as a sort of junior version of the Norton, and I do not use 'junior' as a pejorative. These high school texts were uncluttered with the notion that text should not have response to text. As I reread my high school texts, I am often amazed at the thoughtful questions and guides that followed each selection. Apparently, the Norton editors do not allow for undergraduates to have a guide of some sort. Well, I suggest that much of the twin Nortons can be safely cut down by a judicious excising of, let's face it, unread authors of interest only to old fogies like me. Why not replace these authors with questions, guides, topics to pursue, just the sort of things that come in handy in really getting at the core meaning of literature? The answer, of course, is that for the editors to do what I suggest would require them to relearn the basic fears and inadequacies that they probably felt as unlearned undergraduates when they first realized that the literary stars in the sky are not fixed at all, but depend for their meaning on the trickiest of all props: human variability of opinion. Since that is not going to happen,I fear that all future generations of students will have to groan under the weighty mass of bulk pages and undigested ideas.	2002-06-26
US	49818928	R3EN6H5A6C5STS	1853674117	173080216	Disaster At D-Day (Greenhill Military Paperbacks)	Books	4	29	29	N	N	Disaster At D-Day: Fake History Sounds Real	Alternate history novels are becoming increasing popular.  Harry Turtledove sees to that.  But almost as quickly is the category of non-fiction alternate history.  In this latter 'history' the author takes a real life event and makes it come out different from the original.  He makes no attempt to novelize it; thus, he does not have to worry about the proper use of typical writer's tools such as character development, symbolism, dialogue, and style.  What this author must do is to write expository prose, clearly showing the relation of original cause to changed event.  In DISASTER AT D-DAY, Peter Tsouras posits a German victory at Normandy in June of 1944.  Tsouras notes that only a few changes would have been needed to insure an Allied debacle.  In real life, Hitler refused to commit his reserve tank corps to back up his western wall on the beaches of Normandy. Had he done so, the Allies' advance could well have slowed.  The problem with books of this type is that only the most determined of readers who have accumulated a vast reservoir of military history would have the fortitude to plow through a series of unconnected dots on a swirling map of war.  I am a big fan of war in general and alternate war in particular, but even I had trouble keeping straight a constantly changing series of men, divisions, battles, and minor victories and defeats.  The very nature of this genre precludes an author from connecting too many dots.  The staying power of this book was the immensity of the background, but after having read it, I found that all I could take away from it was the realization that we came THISCLOSE to losing the big one.	2002-06-26
US	49818928	R10F7MN99D4XOD	0060977108	887109454	The Physics of Star Trek	Books	4	4	5	N	N	The Physics of Star Trek: Many Questions--- Few Answers	It is not often a cultural phenomenon like Star Trek is responsible for a spurt of growth of interest in the hard sciences that serve as a backdrop for the various television shows and movies in its canon.  Lawrence Krauss in THE PHYSICS OF STAR TREK attempts to confront the unspoken assumptions that go on in the viewer's mind under the helm's countertop when Captain Kirk orders, 'Warp factor three, Mr. Sulu.'  Apparently what goes on in reality is the merging of pseudo-science with some very clever writing that distracts an audience that is not particularly science-literate anyway. Krauss discusses the widespread Star Trek use of holograms, warp travel, matter transportation, phasers, inertial dampers, time travel, and nano-technology.  In each case, he points out with some tongue in cheek the present impossibility of actually developing and using such devices.  Krauss is a physicist who likes to write,or judging by his lengthy list of published books, he is a writer who likes physics.  He has a smooth style of explaining the grotesquely unfamiliar in terms of the beloved familiar world of the Federation.  TPST is a book written for those whose knowledge of basic science is gleaned from watching shows like Star Trek.  He asks many questions, elaborates many details, but provides precious few answers.  In short, he is just like my 10th grade physics teacher.  Perhaps that is the inner lesson of this book: to probe beneath the smoke and mirrors of the writer-magician's blanket to see if the immutable laws of reasonability are being obeyed.	2002-06-26
US	49818928	R3NOACBJDM2EG3	0140277447	803730078	The Rape of Nanking: The Forgotten Holocaust of World War II	Books	4	14	19	N	N	The Rape of Nanking: History Recreates Itself	If there is one thing that history teaches us, it is that people like to ignore the distasteful truth, or if they can't do that, to bury or to distort it.  As astounding as it may be, there are history deniers or revisionists who insist that the genocide that occurred in Europe in the early 1940s or in Nanking in 1937 simply did not happen or at most, only a few isolated instances of eminently justified killing took place.  Iris Chang in THE RAPE OF NANKING effectively refutes the arguments of the revisionists who claim that the Rape either (a) did not happen or (b) were grossly exaggerated.  In court, direct testimony from eye-witnesses is usually good enough to convince a fair-minded jury that some crime has occurrerd.  When that eye-witness testimony is linked to authentic documents, the results are usually taken as valid.  Iris Chang explains a story not unlike a similar tale that could be told of Nazi Germany in the 1930s.  In both Germany and Japan, these countries' respective leaders blamed a world of hurt and national pain on an outside group.  The Jews and the Chinese were handy punching bags for a large and well-equipped army that had for years been taught hate as a means to redirect the brutality that also had been dumped on them by sadistic leaders.  No one knows the full extent of the genocide in Nanking, but estimates of 100,000 dead and tortured are accepted as reasonable.  It is difficult to read Chang's book and then listen complacently to a Japanese premier who defends his country's right not to include mention of the Rape of Nanking in his nation's history books.  The result of deliberately turning a blind eye and deaf ear to your own country's mass killing of others is simply to invite a repeat.  It is not enough to call Chang a liar. If one wishes to refute her book, then do so in the realm of the scholarly journal or reasoned text, and not on the Tokyo 6 PM nightly news, crying once again how the Chinese are trying to stir up old feelings of animosity.	2002-06-26
US	49818928	RN3IR872S58MF	0156005514	527509611	Forbidden Knowledge: From Prometheus to Pornography	Books	3	7	11	N	N	Forbidden Knowledge: Says Who?	Roger Shattuck in FORBIDDEN KNOWLEDGE raises on a scholarly level that which previously had been raised mostly by white-smocked monster-creating mad doctors who were warned about venturing into areas where Man Must Not Go.  Shattuck explores the full range of human knowledge as he postulates what sorts of knowledge are inherently forbidden.  Most of his attention focuses, however, in areas of his expertise:literature.  He considers the negative ramifications of Eve's eyes being opened to evil in the Garden of Eden; of Satan's questing for knowledge reserved only for His boss; of Faust's seeking knowledge that he transmutes into power; and of the Marquis de Sade's questing for the limits of pain and pleasure.  As Shattuck progresses from one consideration to another, he makes clear his belief that humanity is fatally flawed in the moral/ethical department.  According to Shattuck, whenever humanity pursues an area of knowledge that has the potential for evil, humanity, following Murphy's Law, will turn potentiality into reality.  Literature, he notes, is replete with examples of men and women who could not resist a bite from the Apple of Knowledge.  There is no way to prove him wrong, of course, and it is a most depressing thought that he might be right. If one does not look too closely at the proofs that Shattuck offers, then a complete reading of his book sounds superficially reasonable. Yet, I dare to ask questions that go unasked in FORBIDDEN KNOWLEDGE.  Is the knowledge that man should question the limits of knowledge itself forbidden? How can one measure the surety of the potential dangers of delving into potentially harmful knowledge?<BR>And if one can measure these dangers, how can one measure or balance the corresponding benefits?  And finally, the kicker: exactly who will be the one to affirm that this knowledge is forbidden while that one is not?  These questions almost certainly have no definite answer that will satisfy the reasonable mind, suggesting thatthe quest for answers to fuzzy questions ought not to stop that reasonable mind from posing them in the first place.	2002-06-26
US	49818928	RJPHAAE23T52Q	5557023445	888317136	Night of the Generals	Books	4	8	24	N	N	Night of the Generals: Out of Time--Out of Place	The Second World War has produced many different kinds of novels, but the detective novel has not often been the case.  In NIGHT OF THE GENERALS, Hans Hellmut Kirst tells of a German general who uses his position to kill women as if he were a Teutonic Jack the Ripper.  The problem with writing a murder mystery using the deaths of millions as a backdrop is that the reader is forced to face an unsettling question: what is the value of one human life taken in murder when millions more are taken during battle?<BR>     General Tanz is the Nazi general who likes to slice up [hookers].  After he commits a few murders, one police officer, Major Grau, begins to suspect him, but lacks the proof needed to accuse a general.  When Grau does get the proof, Tanz has him arrested and executed.  All this detective work takes place before and after the plot on Hitler's life in 1944.  Tanz survives the war only to continue his killing in the Soviet bloc countries.  Another policeman, a friend of Grau's, picks up the chase, and brings with him a witness to Tanz's murders.  Faced with the publicity of being accused a serial killer, the general commits suicide.<BR>     This book is the classic cat-and-mouse novel, with the suspect revealed from the very first chapter.  The power of the book lies in whether the general or the police will triumph.  However, it is unavoidable to consider how one life figures into the bigger scheme of things while a world war is raging.  Concepts such as truth, justice, personal responsibility, and accountability form the philosophical underpinning.  By the time, the reader gets to the end, he can see that the death of one woman still counts for something even while mass craziness is being perpetrated on millions of others.	2002-06-25
US	49818928	R3JMR3N8JKHG8H	0786707224	337332229	Russia at War: 1941-1945	Books	4	33	48	N	N	Russia at War: Pappa Joe As Hero	There are many books on the Russian-German conflict of the Second World War, but Alexander Werth's RUSSIA AT WAR is one of the longest, the most detailed, and the most comprehensive.  It is impossible to read it and not get a sense of the masses of men and machines that bashed into each other for nearly four years. His use of detail, map, and breadth of coverage make his book a worthy complement to the bookshelf of war historians.  There is, however, a flaw running throughout that nullifies much of the veracity and objectivity that ought to be intrinsic to a serious work of military history.  That flaw is his pro-Soviet bias, in particular his refusal to see First Secretary Joseph Stalin as the murderous thug that he was.<BR>     Werth divides his history into seven sections. In the first,called 'Prelude to War,' he discusses the months and years that preceded Operation Barbarossa.  To him, Hitler is correctly identified as the architect of the war.  Werth analyzes what now seems painfully evident in hindsight--the plans for the invasion of Poland.  He is less than truthful with Stalin's role in pre-1941 attempts at European hegemony.  Werth writes, 'Throughout, Stalin recalls, the Soviet Union had pursued a policy of peace.' (page 40) In that same paragraph, he adds, 'The Soviet Union wanted peace; she wanted peace and business relations with all countries, so long as they did not impinge on her interests.' It is difficult to read this and not gasp in disbelief at Werth's naivete.  Russia gobbled up Finland in 1940 even though the Finns did not 'impinge on her interests.' As for Poland, Werth rationalizes the Russian invasion after the Poles were already thoroughly beaten by the Nazis as 'the Soviet government could no longer be neutral in the face of reigning chaos in Poland or the fact that 'our blood-brothers, the Ukrainians and Belorussians are being abandoned to their fate.''  As Werth progresses in his history, he tends to become somewhat more even-handed, and it is in his middle chapters that his true stengths as a writer and historian are evident.  He describes the siege of Leningrad and the assault on Moscow by the Wehrmacht in their bloody horror, even if he allows masses of details of lives lost to punctuate his claims.  <BR>     Some pertinent analyses are missing.  Nowhere does he blame Stalin for the great military purges of 1937 as one of the leading factors that ripped the heart out of the Soviet High Command and left Russia very nearly without competent leadership.  Nowhere does he describe the fall of Berlin in 1945, for if he had done so, he would have had to explain the mass rape that was perpetrated on all Berlin women by elements of the Red Army. Nowhere does he even hint at the role the NKVD played as Stalin's personal execution squads, a group that undoubtedly killed more fellow Slavs with a bullet to the back of the neck than it did Germans in defense of the Soviet homeland.  As I finished reading this massive history, I paused for a moment to read the publicity comments written on the front cover by William L. Shirer, author of RISE AND FALL OF THE THIRD REICH, 'The result...is the best book we probably shall ever have in English on Russia at war.' Werth's book is useful in connecting the myriad of dots that was the war on the Eastern Front, but the best book? I don't think so. It is fatally flawed by his unabashed admiration for a thug who feared his own people more than he did his neighbors.	2002-06-24
US	49818928	RFMPKD0THPF1V	0898756170	862383978	Over the Top	Books	3	10	12	N	N	Over The Top: A Bottom Up View	When the Great War broke out in Europe in 1914, most Americans were convinced that the fighting had nothing to do with the United States.  There were precious few with the foresight to demand that America enter the war on the side of the allies.  Arthur Guy Empey wrote OVER THE TOP to show his countrymen that the battle that the allies were fighting was our battle as well.  His book, which reads like a novel, is more of a personal narrative in which he describes his volunteering to join the British Army and fight 'over there.'  Much of his book deals with the daily dreariness of the horrors of trench warfare.  Empey skillfully draws a composite picture  of the average Brit soldier, whom he nicknames Tommy.  His book is at once brutal, comic, and mundane--much like trench warfare had to be.  By the end, the reader becomes convinced with the justness of the British cause, which true enough and soon enough, became the American cause.  A very fine book.	2002-06-24
US	49818928	RTLO8V9BMTQWJ	0060007761	568367162	The Gulag Archipelago: 1918-1956	Books	5	13	20	N	N	Solzhenitsyn's Gulag: Well Done, But What Is It?	Reading Solzhenitsyn's GULAG ARCHIPELAGO is a daunting task, not simply because of its excessive length, but because at the conclusion, the reader is left with judging it and comprehending just what it was that he read. Solzhenitsyn sub-titles his book 'An Experiment in Literary Investigation.' As the reader plows through the author's strange mixture of compelling narrative in parts and excessive fascination with names, dates, and places in others, the reader begins to see that this investigation is a new genre.  It is part autobiography, part novel, part polemic.  Solzhenitsyn tries to guide the reader through a half century of the evolution of the Soviet prison system, the Gulag, by using his sewage disposal metaphor.  A good idea, but the wrong metaphor.  Since his work so often uses bodily phrases like 'cancer' and 'metastasizing', perhaps he might have switched to an organic one. He describes the very beginnings of the Gulag system as the core foundation for post-Revolutionary communism.  It was to the gulags that waves of multi-generational opponents of first Lenin, then Stalin, were sent. Solzhenitsyn makes it clear early on the very first leaders of communism saw in the gulags a long term solution to reshaping a multi-stranded Russian society into a mono-stranded Soviet one.  No one knew it then, but such an effort was doomed to fail.  It is remarkable that it lasted as long as it did when Yeltsin stood atop a tank to topple the communist regime. The gulag system was a self-perpetuating bureaucracy, swallowing in huge gulps entire waves of segments of Soviet society.  What is astonishing is that he reveals that most often there was no logic to the call to rounding up the usual suspects.  In Soviet Russia, everyone was a usual suspect.  Even members of the secret police, first called the Cheka, then the NKVD, finally morphing to the KGB, were expected to place their necks on the chopping blocks when called to do so. It was routinely assumed that if the policedid not come for you today, well, tomorrow was another day.  At the start of the book, 'today' occurs for Solzhenitsyn, when he is arrested for writing subversive letters.  He is accosted by security officers and hustled off to a gulag where he remained for decades.  While incarcerated, he learns, he thinks, he remembers a vast waterfall of details that later goes into the writing of this book. A minor criticism I have is that I wonder how, without detailed notes, he was able to retain accurately this overwhelming flow of data.<BR>       He calls Part II 'Perpetual Motion.' By this he means that Russias gulags were constantly on the prowl, ever seeking new victims.  Perhaps an unspoken assumption is the circular direction of this movement.  It began in lawlessness in 1918 and ends the same in 1991.  Evil seems to exist for as long as it takes good men like Solzhenitsyn to be able to cry out in the night to stop the madness.	2002-06-22
US	49818928	R1KZSEKREIM3K5	1586632043	947266612	The Book of Great Books: A Guide to 100 World Classics	Books	5	24	24	N	N	Shake Hands With the Greats: The Book of Great Books	Let's face it.  Who is the most likely reader of THE BOOK OF GREAT BOOKS by W. John Campbell?  Probably the same people who buy Monarch Notes, Cliff's Notes, and the like. That is students in high school and college who doubt that they lack the time, inclination, or ability to plow through a series of novels, poems, plays, and essays.  What Campbell's book does is to break down what seems an imposingly difficult work of literature so that after ten minutes a reader can get a sense of the 'big picture.' Campbell has chosen 100 of the generally accepted classics of English, American, European, and Greek and Roman works that have survived the test of time to be called that.  Each work is divided into a plot summary, a handy picture that connects the major characters in terms of how they relate, the background, key characters, themes, symbols, style, structure, and critical overview.<br />  The level of detail and the degree of analysis is just enough to permit the reader to follow the work and still retain the joy of reading the original.  Nowhere does Campbell bog the reader down in detail sufficiently heavy to cause him to wonder why he bought TBGB in the first place.  One of the problems that I had in reviewing this book is that Campbell makes no attempt to discuss exactly what a great book is and why he chose the one hundred that he did.  I would have appreciated an introduction which could have clarified those two points.  As it is, TBGB is simply a valuable addition to the bookshelf of anyone who likes to think that he is a reader of the classics.	2002-06-22
US	49818928	R3UYE9F73319L4	0553293389	59623677	Foundation's Edge (Foundation Novels)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Foundation's Edge: The Saga Continues	There was a reason why Asimov's original FOUNDATION TRILOGY was voted the best science fiction trilogy of all time by the Association of SF Writers.  It covered a vast sweep of post-Galactic rise and fall that brought to mind Gibbons' RISE AND FALL OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. Asimov's plots are straightforward, but often convoluted and requires a reader's careful attention to hints that suggest a surprise ending.  In his original series, the action is set perhaps 50,000 years from now in an empire ruled by Trantor, covering hundreds of millions of worlds. The empire is falling, and only Hari Seldon sees it. He  sets up one foundation in the full glare of light and a secret second foundation buried under the ruins of a devastated Trantor.<BR>Fully thirty years after Asimov wrote this trilogy, he returned to the same theme, but this time he tries to connect other themes from his past: the destruction of earth from his robot series and his fascination with a long-lived sect of humans who exist only to plot the end of their more short-lived brethren.<BR>       FOUNDATION'S EDGE tells the stories of two protagonists: Golan Trvize, an upsetter of his superior's political plans, who travels through space to locate the hidden Second Foundation; and Stor Gendibal, a member of the secret Second Foundation, who is on a similar trek to locate Earth.  Soon enough, their respective journeys co-incide, but not on Earth.  Both wind up on Gaia, a planet that was probably settled long ago from Earth.  The complicated plot leaves many loose ends for sequels as both Golan Trevize and Stor Gendibal realize that someone unconnected to either foundation had previously removed all references to Earth from all historical sources and libraries.<BR>     To appreciate how this novel fits in to Asimov's Foundation universe, it is useful to have first read other works in the canon.  I recommend his robot series and Pebble in the Sky.  Still, FOUNDATION'S EDGE can be enjoyed on its own basis.	2002-06-22
US	49818928	R242883J7455IR	0523009747	789187804	Chinese Ultimatum	Books	4	2	3	N	N	The Chinese Ultimatun: An Old-Fashioned Guy Thriller	It is rare that any novel unabashedly makes clear the politically incorrect writing style that sees the world solely from the male point of view. Edward McGhee and Robin Moore in THE CHINESE ULTIMATUM tell of a world of tough-talking military men bashing their fists on a huge oaken table as they bark their orders to properly subservient lessers. Battles are described in all their gore just as if the reader were right there getting drenched in a carmine blanket. And women exist solely as eye candy for powerful men. <BR> The plot is surprisingly intricate. A pre-unified Germany stages a coup, routing the Russian soldiers from a post-Nazi Germany so that Germany stands again as one nation. The Russian Premier, Kharkov, is foaming angry, and to complicate matters, he learns that the only reason the Germans had the nerve to unite their country was a secret deal that the Germans made with the Chinese. The German act was to be only the preliminary surprise assault by the Chinese against Russia. Kharkov feels that he has no choice but to launch a pre-emptive strike. He places the venerable Marshal Korzybski in charge of the attack. Korzybski was a graduate of the cordite and bullet school of war, an education bloodily learned at Stalingrad and Moscow. His plan is simple: a good defense means a better offense. He is quite willing to shed as many casualties as necessary to smash the Chinese threat for ever. His reckless attitude worries Kharkov, who correctly recognizes that the Chinese can afford monstrous losses that the Russians cannot. Ultimately, he is forced to replace Korzybski with a more conservative general. The war between the two countries is inconclusive, and by the novel's end an uneasy bloody status quo is reached.<BR> The charm of the novel is distinctly masculine. The battle scenes are replete with guns shooting, shells landing, and individual soldiers on both sides performing heroically. The switch in scene from one sector of battle to another recreates theconfusion that must reign on such a battlefield. What McGhee and Moore make abundantly clear is that modern war involves masses of troops smashing into each other in a manner not unlike the Crusaders bullying their way through massed Moslem ranks of the tenth century. Men die by the scores of thousands in such warfare. The lesson that McGhee and Moore teach us is that war is bloody and chaotic, and if any modern leader of any country forgets that, then reading THE CHINESE ULTIMATUM may prevent in real life what was only described in print.	2002-06-22
US	49818928	R1ICLYZESIEZGD	0151265003	993706767	The dragon	Books	4	2	2	N	N	The Dragon Still Breathes Literary Fire	Since the collapse of the Soviet Union in 1991, many different people from various walks of life have found cause for celebration.  Many, that is, except for those writers who saw in the demise of communism a loss of a worthy mine for stories that pitted the democratic West against the tyrannical communist bear.  The grinning villains of the KGB and the sadistic officers of the GRU can now be found only in novels like THE DRAGON.  Alfred Coppel's 1977 novel is typical of the military, techno-thriller genre so popular of that time.  THE DRAGON is better than most of its ilk in that it has a full rogue's gallery of believable bad guys, many of whom battle each other as much as they do the hated democracies. <BR>       The introductory chapter is quite effective in setting the stage for later developments.  One of the KGB's top operatives, Colonel Choy Balsan, is alone on horseback in Red China, seeking to find information about a supersecret laser cannon, the dragon of the title, so that he may destroy it.  He fails in his mission, but he manages to radio its location to his superiors in Moscow before he is captured by Red Chinese soldiers. When Balsan runs out of bullets, Coppel's writing style effectively sets a manly prose style so lacking in others who try but fail to capture the essence of a man buying time with his life: 'It was then that he knelt, and drew the double-reflex horn bow of his ancestors. Five young soldiers of the People's Liberation Army fell with Mongol arrows in them, dying an archaic death as the armored vehicle, spitting machine-gun fire like some mythic Asian monster, rolled over Choy Balsan.'<BR>     Fully half of the book is from the perspective of the top leadership of the communist party.  The First Secretary of the Soviet Union, Valentin Kirov, the absolute ruler of all the Russias, is a sick and dying man, but he knows not only of the danger posed by the Dragon but also suspects that his top soldier, Defense Minister Leonov, is plottinga coup.  Yet, he does not see a connection between the two.  Leonov plans to destroy the Dragon using nuclear missiles at his command from his base, thus presenting his boss with a fait accompli: follow up the limited strike on the Dragon with a general full strike on all of China's nuclear bases.  The plot then involves the working out of his hopes.  Along the way, the reader finds the expected sex scenes with full-breasted female Russian military officers seducing those who stand as a threat to Leonov.  Further, the reader learns of the inner workings of the top leadership of the Chinese communist Politburo.  There is plot, counterplot, assasination, and last minute strategies that will determine the fate of the world.  Coppel manages to convince the reader that if history did not actually turn out the way that he says it might have, then the reader will easily accept the result of the last few chapters. Coppel is such a talent that when I finished his book, I felt that I knew his alternate reality better than I did the actual one, and that, I think, is the hallmark of any top-notch writer of fiction.	2002-06-21
US	49818928	R1VZF7D08V2LDM	0553234439	336137961	Wolfen	Books	5	22	23	N	N	The Wolfen: They Kill, They Eat, They Are Just Like Us	A sub-category of the horror genre is that of the man-killing creature that has co-existed with humanity since the dawn of time. Usually, horror writers delve into the supernatural for creatures that Go Bump In the Night. Whitley Streiber, in his novel, THE WOLFEN, tells a compelling yet strangely believable tale of a race of intelligent carnivores that split off from their canine ancestors milennia ago and have feasted on the dregs of human society: the weak, the old, the lost, and the sick. As the novel opens, two police officers are killed and consumed while guarding auto wrecks. As their police brethren investigate, two of them, detectives George Wilson and Becky Neff, realize that the two cops were not killed by a stray pack of wild mutts. Their investigation gradually reveals that the killers knew what they were doing and were equally determined to keep evidence of their existence a secret. The plot boils down to a race between the Wolfen's trying to kill Wilson and Neff before they can reveal the existence of the pack and the detectives' attempts to convince the world that the nightmare has already begun.<BR> What makes the book a solid read is not only the fluid writing of Streiber, but also his vast knowledge of canine habits and intelligence. The best parts of the book are not the hide and seek confrontations between the detectives and the pack but the scholarly discussions of wolfen history, anatomy, and mythology. Early in the novel, Wilson and Neff find a pawprint of a wolfen and take it to a canine biologist for analysis. The biologist studies it for a while and says, \\"It can't exist. Too perfect a mutation. No defects at all. Plus it's at least three steps ahead of its canine ancestors.\\" The doctor's incredulity fades as he rethinks his objection, so he goes out to find them and is torn apart for his troubles. <BR> Whenever any writer of horror succeeds in convincing his reader that his premise could truly have happened, it is not because of his knowledge of the topic or even his technical skill at balancing a confrontation between the creatures and those who oppose them. The real test of making a monster leap off the page at the reader lies in the writer's ability to give a face and a voice to the creatures. If the creatures are seen only as lethal and bloody killing machines, then the reader cannot empathize with them. Streiber avoids this difficulty by presenting the Wolfen as killing but taking no pleasure in their killing. In fact, he goes to great pains to exhibit a long-lived species as doing merely what they have always done. The Wolfen are described as having an efficient social hierarchy, a supportive inter-family relationship, and a sense of teamwork when confronting human beings. In short, they are seen as roughly four-legged versions of human beings who do what they have to do to survive, but unlike humans, the Wolfen are not given to post-killing rationalization for their bloody deeds. It is this gentle pairing off and comparing of the habits, mores, and attitudes of both competing species that lends the novel its peculiar power. Perhaps the inner lesson of THE WOLFEN is that the killing of any species for survival can be justified on that basis alone, and if humanity claims that right for itself, then it can hardly fault the Wolfen for doing the same.	2002-06-17
US	49818928	R3QHBEXRIN7BX7	0671211536	215574710	The Word: A Novel	Books	5	36	42	N	N	The Word: A Retreat From Faith	The test of a believer's faith is to continue to believe even when experience and science tell him not to.  In THE WORD by Irving Wallace, the hero Steve Randall, is initially a man of no faith in the Word of God.  He is not unhappy with that nor does he feel any the less a man for that.  During the course of the novel, he regains his Faith, only to lose it again by the book's end.  The reader is much like Mr. Randall.  <BR>     Steve Randall works for a book company, and it is his job to publicize a new version of the Bible purportedly based on the unexpected find of the Lost Scriptures of James the Just, the brother of Jesus.  This lost gospel proves beyond doubt that Jesus lived, He walked, He had His ministry, and He was crucified.  As Randal reads an advanced copy of this gospel, he rebuilds his lost faith and becomes a true believer in the Word.  Now afire with holy zeal, he prepares to publicize and publish this new Bible in the hopes of regalvanizing the billions of Christians world wide.  Unfortunately, for his new-found sense of holy mission, he is given incontrovertible evidence that the new gospel is a magnificent fraud, perpetrated by a master hoaxer who has a decades-old feud against the Catholic church.  When he attempts to bring this evidence to the attention of his superiors, they stonewall him by assuring him that the proof is itself a hoax, and that the new Bible is the real McCoy. When Randall ignores warnings to lay off, he encounters men trying to kill him and to bury the evidence of this forgery for all eternity.  By the book's end, he fails, and the new Bible is published amidst waves of hosannas.<BR>     Part of the charm of THE WORD lies in Wallace's interweaving a tightly knit plot with flashing-eyes-and-heaving-bosom sex scenes coupled with a surprisingly fascinating series of erudite digressions of Biblical history, mythology, and publishing.  I learned a great deal about the historical life and times of Jesus Christ, even if some of this 'knowledge' was itself part of the fraud.  Much of the plot revolved around nothing more than a bunch of learned Biblical scholars arguing the merits of theology and faith.  By the time I got to the end, I became convinced that the majority of human beings fell into one of two categories: those who are gullible enough to accept the most wicked fraud in history as genuine and those who help to perpetuate that fraud.  Perhaps Wallace gives the reader a hint of this two-level division of faith in his introductory series of three quotes which preceed the novel, the last of which reads: 'If God did not exist, it would be necessary to invent Him.'	2002-06-17
US	49818928	R3LZNTI8RCHK1D	055334515X	362913396	The Omega Point: The Search for the Missing Mass and the Ultimate Fate of the Universe	Books	3	7	10	N	N	The Omega Point: Shows Its Age but Still Relevant	One of the great mysteries of our time is to discover how It All Began. Ever since radio astronomy disproved the steady state theory of astronomer Fred Hoyle, cosmologists have pretty well agreed that this universe began in some incomprehensibly colossal explosion that astoundingly enough seems to have come out of nothing to produce the sights that we can see in the sky.  As students of science read texts such as THE OMEGA POINT by John Gribbon, they often learn that these books differ more in style than substance.  Essentially, this is the theory of the Big Bang (much abbreviated): There was no 'before' before the Big Bang.  For reasons not understood, a point in time and space merged out of nothing to produce something. This something was an explosion that did not exist in space but created its own space as it inflated.  In the first few billionths of a second, the necessary ingredients of matter were created.  These ingredients coalesced into tiny bits of matter, then later into galaxies and clusters of galaxies.  And all this happened 15 billion years ago.  What Gribbon does is to explain all this in a reasonably straightforward way.  His focuses on the ever so delicate balance that the universe teetertotters on between eternal expansion and eventual contraction.  An analogy might be to consider lifting a mountain and positioning it on the pointy end of a sturdy needle so as to maintain equilibrium.  Gribbin calls this the Omega Point.  His core thesis is that during the first fraction of a second when time began, there was a tiny fraction of baryonic (anything that is solid) matter in excess of its anti-matter particle.  As the universe inflated exponentially, this excess caused a lumpiness that later caused the growth of stars and galaxies.  Gribbon believes that much of this baryonic matter is hidden from the eyes and ears of radio astronomers.  In fact, he thinks that there is so much of this 'dark matter' that he is fairly sure that the gravitic attractionof the totality of this dark matter will stall the universal expansion and cause a Big Bang in reverse.  Of course, by that time (zillions of years from now) neither we nor our descendants will be around to note the universe's passing.<BR>        The charm of this book lies in Gribbon's smooth and lucid style.  Unfortunately again, despite his writing ability, the latest in cosmological advances indicate that he is quite wrong in his assertion that the universe will shrink into some impossibly tiny micro-dot. The latest thinking is that the amount of dark matter is not enough to slow down galactic expansion.  Our future seems to be a dreary never-ending ride toward what Hemingway would term 'nada,' a big but empty cosmos that once contained at least one sentient species.  Not a very appealing prospect to be sure, but somehow still preferable to knowing that the universe allows traffic in both directions.	2002-06-16
US	49818928	R26LFLVAJUQG5V	0140431950	551289964	Leviathan (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	44	53	N	N	Leviathan: The Umbrella Against Fear	To understand Hobbes' LEVIATHAN, the reader must first focus on 'fear.'  His contemporaries were terrified of chaos and anarchy and would move heaven and earth to preserve the continuity of the state.  Nowhere does he mention the word 'fear' but his real, if underlying purpose becomes clear enough as the reader plows through his dense tract that has as its purported goal to explain the origin of political institutions and to define their powers and proper limits. Hobbes sets up this thesis by first insisting that all of men's ideas originate from sense impressions, which take their cue from the external universe infringing on these sense organs. This emphasis on sense impression led Hobbes next to consider how the external universe manages this neat trick.  Motion, according to Hobbes, is the key.  Motion naturally leads man, for good or ill, to impact on other men. This impacting may be beneficial, as in man agreeing to help one another respect their respective rights, or it may be harmful, as in man being in a state or war.  It was this fear that humanity might start to question the wisdom of the ruling nobility that caused Hobbes to write the longest defense of the royal right of kings ever written. Hobbes cleverly compared man to a wind-up clock: 'That great Leviathan is but an artificial man with an artificial soul.' As the reader follows this geometric logic, he is pressured to accept Hobbes' true premise: that it is better for the common man to put up with the occasional despot than to risk what he terms the horror of 'that condition which is called Warre, and such a warre as is of every man, against every man.'<br />Even if that regime becomes so thuggish that its citizens wish to break it, Hobbes says 'No way.' If these citizens do break this covenant, then Hobbes warns that their lives will be 'solitary, nasty, brutish, and short.' Clearly Hobbes was a man of his times, one who was a paid shill of the crowned heads of Europe.  Such a man today we would label as a fearful toady who desperately needs to maintain his own precarious hold on power. So why is LEVIATHAN still read today? Perhaps Hobbes points out the road that humanity might have once chosen to travel.  We, like Robert Frost, have thankfully chosen the other less travelled by.as a fearful toady who desperately needs to maintain his own precarious hold on power. So why is LEVIATHAN still read today? Perhaps Hobbes points out the road that humanity might have once chosen to travel.  We, like Robert Frost, have thankfully chosen the other less travelled by.	2002-06-14
US	49818928	R32NV3XLFWJZ9D	0394758439	477041087	Cultural Literacy: What Every American Needs to Know	Books	3	42	50	N	N	Cultural Literacy: Who Decides What We Need to Know?	E. D. Hirsh has unwittingly done a great service to the legions of history teachers who are both astounded and saddened that their students do not know in which century the American Civil War was fought.  Clearly, Hirsh is correct as he bemoans the American students who lack not only grammatical, logical, and cognitive modes of thought but also a cultural context with which to ponder them.  But I am concerned that he tries to do something about it in a piecemeal way that smacks of cultural elitism.  Yes, I am concerned that the majority of American high school graduates cannot place Shakespeare's 'tide in the affairs of men' quote from &quot;Julius Caesar,&quot; but perhaps not so much as he is.  Although I like to think of myself as reasonably erudite at the ripe age of 53, I do not seem to remember that at the age of 17, I could identify that quote either.  Learning in a way that allows the learner to pull together a myriad of literary, scientific, and historical strands is an ongoing process that probably never reaches full fruition. As I read the back of his book that constitutes a list of What Literate Americans Know, I was rather pleased that I was familiar with most, but I immediately tempered my egotistical enthusiasm with the sobering thought that many of these entries I learned somewhat late in life.  This rather long learning curve may in fact be typical of most college educated Americans, who learned most of the really important stuff after they hung their degree on the wall.  My greatest fear of this list is that an increasingly politically correct educational establishment will treat it as do high school teachers who must get their students to pass a series of basic skills tests as a prerequisite for graduation. 'Teaching to the test' may indeed result in the next generation of students doing quite well on quiz shows like &quot;Jeopardy&quot;  but I fear that mastery of a sliced and segmented arc of someone's opinion of what constitutes a true cross-section of American culture may take precedence over a reasoned approach to that same arc.	2002-06-12
US	49818928	R1WYPPNRXFBJFE	0375756175	78262887	Cracking the GRE Literature, 3rd Edition (Princeton Review: Cracking the GRE Literature)	Books	5	4	10	N	N	The GRE in Literature: Strategy Counts	Reviewing a 'how to' text for a test like the GRE in Literature presents a problem for the reviewer. Almost certainly that reviewer is one more hopeful who wants to get a high enough score to gain entrance to some graduate program in English. If that reviewer does not learn from a review guide that this test is a game whose rules change dramatically with the shift in the winds of political correctness, then that reviewer had better buy a new guide. Well, CRACKING THE GRE LITERATURE IN SUBJECT TEST is just such a book. Most other texts for this test offer the 'brute force' approach, which I define as presenting the test taker with thousands of test questions and explanations of answers. Now, there is a use for such an approach, and it is even possible for the reader to intuit a practical approach to getting a high score, but that depends on the acumen of the test taker. Douglas McMullen has removed the intuit element from the equation and now presents a thoroughly logical and practical method for zipping through the test so that a high score is likely. The problem with his book (and this is no criticism of him) is that the friendly folks at ETS who design the test have read his book too, and have already taken countermeasures to reduce the scores across the board so as to re-establish the bell-shaped curve that existed before McMullen wrote his book. I took the test in November of 2001, and I learned that though McMullen's strategies remain sound, the essence of the test has morphed from a traditional test on DWEM (Dead White European Males) to a mess that runs the gamut of reading passages that bear only peripherally on literature to a huge number of questions on 20th Century Feminist Literary Critics whose names are known only to the women (I presume men were excluded from the ETS test makers) who decided to keep that bell-shaped curve alive at all costs.<BR> Clearly, the challenge for all future test takers is to know more than what McMullen urges. They ought to bone up on what passes for the latest in politically correct feminist critics. No mean feat there.<BR> PS. I scored in the 86 percentile. Not too shabby except for the lowball pitched me by those ladies of ETS.	2002-06-10
US	49818928	R12NVIU9YWANLR	0375756175	78262887	Cracking the GRE Literature, 3rd Edition (Princeton Review: Cracking the GRE Literature)	Books	5	0	2	N	N	The GRE in Literature: Strategy Counts	Reviewing a 'how to' text for a test like the GRE in Literature presents a problem for the reviewer.  Almost certainly that reviewer is one more hopeful who wants to get a high enough score to gain entrance to some graduate program in English. If that reviewer does not learn from a review guide that this test is a game whose rules change dramatically with the shift in the winds of political correctness, then that reviewer had better buy a new guide.  Well, CRACKING THE GRE LITERATURE IN SUBJECT TEST is just such a book.  Most other texts for this test offer the 'brute force' approach, which I define as presenting the test taker with thousands of test questions and explanations of answers.  Now, there is a use for such an approach, and it is even possible for the reader to intuit a practical approach to getting a high score, but that depends on the acumen of the test taker.  Douglas McMullen has removed the intuit element from the equation and now presents a thoroughly logical and practical method for zipping through the test so that a high score is likely.  The problem with his book (and this is no criticism of him) is that the friendly folks at ETS who design the test have read his book too, and have already taken countermeasures to reduce the scores across the board so as to re-establish the bell-shaped curve that existed before McMullen wrote his book.  I took the test in November of 2001, and I learned that though McMullen's strategies remain sound, the essence of the test has morphed from a traditional test on DWEM (Dead White European Males) to a mess that runs the gamut of reading passages that bear only peripherally on literature to a huge number of questions on 20th Century Feminist Literary Critics whose names are known only to the women (I presume men were excluded from the ETS test makers) who decided to keep that bell-shaped curve alive at all costs.<BR>     Clearly, the challenge for all future test takers is to know more than what McMullen urges.  They ought to bone up on what passes for the latest in politically correct feminist critics.  No mean feat there.<BR>     PS. I scored in the 86 percentile. Not too shabby except for the lowball pitched me by those ladies of ETS.	2002-06-10
US	49818928	R17T6KSR4N7G9B	0451134621	634434215	Fall of the Russian Empire (Signet)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Communism Falls: But What Arises?	It is tempting to read THE FALL OF THE RUSSIAN EMPIRE in the light of the events after 1991 when Boris Yeltsin stood on a Russian tank to address the troops who were sent to arrest him, but but instead followed him in ousting a seven decade old communist dictatorship.  The 'fall' of the novel occurs in 1986, unlike its real life counterpart of 1991.  Yet the difference between the fictional fall and the actual fall was one more of degree than of kind. In hindsight, it now seems obvious that the former Soviet Union was ripe for a fall.  Donald James raises a number of issues that early in the novel suggest this fall was imminent.  James notes a fact that may have been surprising to one who was unfamiliar with Russian history and geography: \\"At the root of the looming problems was the simple fact that the Soviet Union was an empire comprising fifteen totally different nations, one hundred languages, a racial spectrum from Slav to Mongol.\\"  James sets the background of his novel by drawing a comparison between the disunity of the Soviet people with the disunity of the Soviet Army: \\"By the early 1980's all but the first rank of Soviet Army divisions were riddled with racial tensions.\\" Into this cauldron of oil and water, James introduces his major characters: Zoya Densky, who flits in and out of the action and supplies first hand limited view perspective; Natalya Roginova, the leader of the Soviet Union before she is ousted in a coup; Semyon Kuba, who follows Roginova as a Stalin wanna-be First Secretary and Absolute Leader of Russia; and Bubo, the penal convict who escapes the gulag to lead an army of penals to the very gates of Moscow with the intention of burning down the capital.<br />  There is no 'hero' in the traditional sense of a novel's dramatic center.  Each of the main characters has his moments on stage and either reacts to events beyond his control, as Zoya Densky does, or acts to try to contain the uncontainable fury of the penal army as both Kuba and Bubo do.  Along the way, the reader learns a great deal about the inner rot that comprised the heart of the Communist Party.  By the novel's end, Kuba has only one option to retain his quickly dissipating hold on power. He tries a mass purge of murder and arrest for all those of the Politburo and Central Committee who threaten to balk his plans to control Russia, but he is too late.  He himself is removed in a coup which restores Natalya Roginova to power.  Kuba seems not surprised at his fate: \\"Try as he might, he could not imagine where he had gone wrong, or how Joseph Vissarionovich might have done better.\\"<br />  James accurately portrays how a great country was lead astray by a clique of power hungry radicals in 1917 and how those same radicals bled that nation of pride, power, and respect.  Perhaps there is a lesson for the current center of Russian leadership: the infinite capacity of the Russian people to sacrifice for the common good is matched only by an equal capacity for anger when they see that their sacrifices have been in vain.	2002-06-09
US	49818928	R569K2GNCEITV	0451134621	634434215	Fall of the Russian Empire (Signet)	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Communism Falls: But What Arises?	It is tempting to read THE FALL OF THE RUSSIAN EMPIRE in the light of the events after 1991 when Boris Yeltsin stood on a Russian tank to address the troops who were sent to arrest him but instead followed him in ousting a seven decade old communist dictatorship. The 'fall' of the novel occurs in 1986, unlike its real life counterpart of 1991. Yet the difference between the fictional fall and the actual fall was one more of degree than of kind. In hindsight, it now seems obvious that the former Soviet Union was ripe for a fall. Donald James raises a number of issues that early in the novel suggest this fall was imminent. James notes a fact that may have been surprising to one who was unfamiliar with Russian history and geography: \\"At the root of the looming problems was the simple fact that the Soviet Union was an empire comprising fifteen totally different nations, one hundred languages, a racial spectrum from Slav to Mongol.\\" James sets the background of his novel by drawing a comparison between the disunity of the Soviet people with the disunity of the Soviet Army: \\"By the early 1980's all but the first rank of Soviet Army divisions were riddled with racial tensions.\\" Into this cauldron of oil and water, James introduces his major characters: Zoya Densky, who flits in and out of the action and supplies first hand limited view perspective; Natalya Roginova, the leader of the Soviet Union before she is ousted in a coup; Semyon Kuba, who follows Roginova as a Stalin wanna-be First Secretary and Absolute Leader of Russia; and Bubo, the penal convict who escapes the gulag to lead an army of penals to the very gates of Moscow with the intention of burning down the capital.<BR> There is no 'hero' in the traditional sense of a novel's dramatic center. Each of the main characters has his moments on stage and either reacts to events beyond his control, as Zoya Densky does, or acts to try to contain the uncontainable fury of the penal army as both Kuba and Bubo do. Along the way, the reader learns a great deal about the inner rot that comprised the heart of the Communist Party. By the novel's end, Kuba has only one option to retain his quickly dissipating hold on power. He tries a mass purge of murder and arrest for all those of the Politburo and Central Committee who threaten to balk his plans to control Russia, but he is too late. He himself is removed in a coup which restores Natalya Roginova to power. Kuba seems not surprised at his fate: \\"Try as he might, he could not imagine where he had gone wrong, or how Joseph Vissarionovich might have done better.\\"<BR> James accurately portrays how a great country was lead astray by a clique of power hungry radicals in 1917 and how those same radicals bled that nation of pride, power, and respect. Perhaps there is a lesson for the current center of Russian leadership: the infinite capacity of the Russian people to sacrifice for the common good is matched only by an equal capacity for anger when they see that their sacrifices have been in vain.	2002-06-09
US	49818928	R1JVE8ZV8J23WA	0700608796	870692200	Stumbling Colossus: The Red Army on the Eve of World War (Modern War Studies)	Books	5	22	25	N	N	Stumbling Colossus: Russia Wins Despite Stalin	In STUMBLING COLOSSUS, David Glantz captures a moment in time critical in understanding how the world wound up the way it did. From the time that Stalin became undisputed leader of the Soviet Union as First Secretary, his singular goal was the exportation of communism as the world's sole political system. During the late 1920's through the late 1930's Stalin built up a huge war machine that, as primitively equipped as it was, still had to be respected as the brute power he had intended it to be. With the emergence of Nazism, Hitler quickly and illegally rebuilt the German Army to the extent that year by year, Stalin came to be increasingly intimidated by it. As Glantz points out, Hitler was not the only cause for concern to Stalin. The Japanese were making threatening noises in Manchuria, and Stalin had somehow to factor in his paranoia this Japanese expansion into Soviet territory. To complicate matters from Stalin's perspective was his own paranoia. To put matters bluntly, Stalin did not trust his own military. Comrade First Secretary Stalin tended to see more snakes in his own garden than in Hitler's. He determined to remove any potential threat to his own iron grip on power. Glantz writes that \\"After the expulsion from the Soviet leadership of Commissar of War, L. D. Trotsky, who had been the principal defender of the 'military experts,' and the rise to power of I. V. Stalin, the cleansing of the army began.\\"<BR>This 'cleansing' began in 1937 and continued until the very day that German divisions rolled into Russia. The bag of officers purged was appallingly high. Any officer over the rank of colonel in the Red Army had a one in three chance of facing a firing squad or a tenure in one of Stalin's gulags. It did not take a rocket scientist for the survivors to figure out that their best chance to avoid the fate of their predecessors was to become spineless 'yes-men' who could advance in rank only by cringing before Stalin's bizarre refusal to face reality: that Hitler truly planned to take the Soviet Union as his own and to exterminate the greater mass of the Russian people.<BR> It is here, on the point of deciding the culpability for Russia's poor intitial performance of the war, that scholars are divided. There are the mainstream historians who place the disgraceful state of readiness of the Red Army squarely on Stalin's unwillingness to antagonize the Wehrmacht before he had cleaned up his own messy situation both in Manchuria and in his recognizing that his military was not able to fend off,let alone launch a pre-emptive strike in 1941 or 1942. Reviewer Michael Petukhov insists that Glantz's book is less reliable than the ones written by fellow countryman Viktor Suvorov, whom Petukhov supports by writing in his own recent review that \\"Stalin was actively preparing the offensive against Nazi Germany sometime in July of 1941.\\" I am not sure what criticism Petukhov intends toward Glantz's thesis that Stalin and Stalin alone was responsible for the near defeat of the Soviet Union in 1941 and 1942. If Petukhov insists that Stalin's generals ought not to have worried due to the massive size of the Red Army, then perhaps the inner lesson of Glantz's book suddenly takes on a crystal clarity. When any army corps of generals has to look over its shoulders towards a leader who rewards creative thinking and constructive dissent with disgrace and death, then the stumbling of their military colossus takes on a reverberating of aftershocks that lingers even until today.	2002-06-08
US	49818928	R2VJTPM4K1VFII	0553201255	685470323	The Black March	Books	4	9	14	N	N	The Black March: A March of No Remorse	\\"The Black March\\" by Peter Neumann is unique in the recent spate of books on the Second World War written from a German's perspective.  Other authors who served in the Wehrmacht or the SS have written faithfully about the horrors of battle on the eastern front in Russia.  Unlike the novelized histories of Sven Hassel, who hated fascism in any form, Peter Neumann writes as a man who sees nothing wrong with the goals of the SS during wartime.  Only once in the novel does he attempt to prevent a massacre of civilians.  Most of the time, he gladly carries out any orders to liquidate the enemy.  Once, he is ordered to execute some fellow German officers who do not have movement orders to prove they are not deserters.  Clearly, Neumann sees himself as a bulwark against the half-human savages of Russia.  He writes that he wishes 'to drown the enemy in a sea of their own blood.'<BR>     As the novel opens, Neumann joins the SS as a raw recruit. He is given the brutal training and ideological indoctrination necessary for all officers of Hitler's elite SS vanguard.  He willingly immerses himself in Nazi lore and mythology, so that when Germany attacks Poland in September of 1939, Neumann wastes no time in amassing an impressive body count.  As the war drags on, he slowly realizes that the Nazi flag of victory cannot forever unfurl itself over newly conquered countries.  He begins to lose trusted comrades and suffers in the fierce fighting on the eastern front of Russia.  Yet, despite the horrors of close order combat, Neumann never questions the rightness of the twin twisted lightning emblem that he wears so proudly on his sleeve.<BR>By the end of the book, he is alone, bereft of his proud uniform, but still determined to kill the subhuman Slavs rushing him.  <BR>     It was difficult for me to make sense of Neumann's battle account.  It was engrossing and repellent at the same time.  And perhaps that is the inner lesson that a jackbooted uniform must teach: to kill is a goal, not a means. Most democratic nations insist that their military academies teach the reverse.	2002-06-03
US	49818928	R2J3ATMC0MSDMQ	0552088749	723842724	S. S. General	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Solidarity Under Fire: SS General	Sven Hassel's novel \\"SS General\\" exposes the hideous brutality that was the Second World War.  In this book, as in most of his other novels, he writes history as fiction.  He is the protagonist of his own works.  He sees friends and enemies die in the cauldrons of Stalingrad, Normandy, and Monte Cassino. In SS General, Hassel and his companions are led out of Stalingrad by a renegade SS general, who succeeds in doing exactly that and is executed by a firing squad for having 'abandoned' his post.  Hassel also spends considerable time in portraying the murderous antics of a true-life Nazi, Theodore Eicke, who graduated from the ranks of being a concentration camp commandant to that of a SS field general who was given carte blanche by the Fuhrer to execute anyone he pleased. Hassel somehow survives the frozen snows of Stalingrad and the itchy palms of the German field police who executed nearly as many front line soldiers as were killed by the Russians. \\"SS General\\" is probably the best in the series of nightmares that Sven Hassel nightly relives.  As you read his books, you learn that suffering has a purpose--to prepare for further outrages on your soul.  No one tells this message as well as he does.	2002-06-03
US	49818928	R1NEIQ9FHVNE5N	034531977X	507854420	Tarzan of the Apes (Tarzan (Ballantine))	Books	5	13	14	N	N	The Two Tarzans	It is unfortunate that the prevailing image of Tarzan of the Apes is the one that belongs to Johnny Weismuller, who played Tarzan in a series of forgettable films during the 1930's and 1940's.  Tarzan, as Weismuller played him, was a grunting, monosyllabic elephant yodeler who is often caricatured as the one who says, \\"Me Tarzan, you Jane.\\"  The Tarzan as Edgar Rice Burroughs wrote of was truly a jungle man, but one who was erudite, fluent in many languages, and possessed of a strong code of jungle justice.  I was more fortunate than most since my first exposure to Tarzan was in the series' opener, \\"Tarzan of the Apes.\\" It was then that I was transported to a mythical jungle forest that I know now can not ever have existed in one place at one time.  Burroughs' Africa in 1914 is seen more as a dinosaur-less Jurassic Park megafauna than as the western Africa as pictured in National Geographic.  In Tarzan's stomping grounds, the reader sees a mixture of lions, tigers, elephants, and various anthropoid hominid ape-gorillas.  But as a child, I did not notice such geographical anachronisms.  What I saw was the most thrilling excitement of my first twelve years.  I met Tarzan's biological parents, John Clayton, Lord Greystoke, and the Lady Alice, both of whom were cast ashore by the mutinous villanies of Black Michael. I cried as both his parents died, the Lady Alice of disease, John Clayton at the hands of the killer leader of the apes, the ferocious Kerchak. Kala, a female ape soon adopts the waif, whom she calls Tarzan (White Skin). As Tarzan grew to maturity, so did I.  As he learned to read the strange bugs of his father's library, I learned to read equally new and puzzling vocabulary.  The death of Kala caused me to sob again. By the novel's end, I was hooked to read all sequels.<BR>     Recently, I reread the novel, with a mature perspective.  What I found was there was nothing stale or juvenile about the book.  True, I sensed some racist touches that other criticshave so mercilessly hammered.  Further, I saw other flaws in Burroughs' style, an overly florid dependence on sensory details, that occasionally intruded.  But as an adult, I saw what I could only dimly perceive as a child. Tarzan's foster mother Kala protected the baby Tarzan with a maternal ferocity unmatched in literature.  She was both the literal and figurative shield that permitted Tarzan to survive long enough to later meet and mate with Jane. Though Kala is killed off fairly early, she is mentioned often enough to set her off as one of the bedrocks of Tarzan's psyche.  To me, Kala was my shield too.  I needed her as a bulwark against my own Kerchaks.  As long as readers need to visit a foreign and terror fraught land, they will need to do so in psychological safety. Tarzan may get them in, but it will be Kala who will get them out.	2002-06-03
US	49818928	R2CGDB6D9OKMFP	0595008208	670495059	The HAB Theory	Books	5	6	7	N	N	The HAB Theory: The Novel of Verisimilitude	Most people who have read The HAB Theory remember it even years later.  The reason most often given is its subject matter: that the earth is subject to a capsizing of the polar ice caps every six or seven thousand years.  Such readers are entranced by the many loose historical, geological, and biblical ends that its author, Alan Eckert, has so convincingly tied up.  Even I, when I first read it back in the 70's became a convert.  I checked upon the historical references in the book, and found out that most of them were either literally true or close enough so that what I was reading seemed to be incontestably true.  Eckert's description of the ancient maps which showed Antartica as ice-free, his mention of the Peruvian and Chinese oval discs which suggest the existence of a pair of antediluvian civilizations, his analysis of numerous Biblical events all lend credence to the core belief that this planet has been long overdue for a capsizing.  Yet,I quibble.  There is nothing concrete that I can bring forth to refute him, nor perhaps do I wish to.  I might add though that the recent glacial warming that is currently reducing the sizes of the two polar ice caps (the caps must grow for the tipping to occur), seem to suggest that our planet must have had numerous warming periods lasting many millenia, thus negating the tipping factor.  <BR>     I reread the book recently, and found it as gripping as ever.  The love scenes between the hero John Grant and his wife and mistress were clumsy and irritating.  Eckert is at his best when he sticks to the hard scientific give and go dialogue which really carries the book.  If the earth ever really does tip over, I hope that when it does, I will be lucky enough to be at one of the two pivitol points.  Probably not,though.	2002-06-02
US	49818928	R3ALV4KRVN5MRB	0595008208	670495059	The HAB Theory	Books	5	10	13	N	N	The HAB Theory: The Novel of Verisimilitude	Most people who have read The HAB Theory remember it even years later.  The reason most often given is its subject matter: that the earth is subject to a capsizing of the polar ice caps every six or seven thousand years.  Such readers are entranced by the many loose historical, geological, and biblical ends that its author, Alan Eckert, has so convincingly tied up.  Even I, when I first read it back in the 70's became a convert.  I checked upon the historical references in the book, and found out that most of them were either literally true or close enough so that what I was reading seemed to be incontestably true.  Eckert's description of the ancient maps which showed Antartica as ice-free, his mention of the Peruvian and Chinese oval discs which suggest the existence of a pair of antediluvian civilizations, his analysis of numerous Biblical events all lend credence to the core belief that this planet has been long overdue for a capsizing.  Yet,I quibble.  There is nothing concrete that I can bring forth to refute him, nor perhaps do I wish to.  I might add though that the recent glacial warming that is currently reducing the sizes of the two polar ice caps (the caps must grow for the tipping to occur), seem to suggest that our planet must have had numerous warming periods lasting many millenia, thus negating the tipping factor.  <BR>     I reread the book recently, and found it as gripping as ever.  The love scenes between the hero John Grant and his wife and mistress were clumsy and irritating.  Eckert is at his best when he sticks to the hard scientific give and go dialogue which really carries the book.  If the earth ever really does tip over, I hope that when it does, I will be lucky enough to be at one of the two pivotal points.  Probably not,though.	2002-06-02
US	49818928	R2K4AL8PTS7VF7	0449213013	750649906	Earth Abides	Books	4	0	2	N	N	Earth Abides: The Metaphor of Dying Senses	EARTH ABIDES by George R. Stewart is one of many books that take as its theme the destruction of mankind, leaving the Last Man on Earth as a narrator. THE PURPLE CLOUD by M.P. Sheil did much the same but Sheil's book was marred by excessive racism. Stewart's book is saved not only by the logical working out of the plot by its narrator-survivor, Isherwood, but also by Stewart's clever though subtle use of using Isherwood's slowly failing senses over many decades of post-apocalyptic adventures as a metaphor for the slow destruction of the American ideal of life. <BR> As the novel opens, the reader is told that the United States has been hit by a super-plague that has spread with lightning rapidity with near one hundred percent fatality. Ish, one of the very few survivors, passes by a abandoned car on the San Francisco bridge. This car is registered to a James P Robson of Oregon. This seemingly innocuous narration is later seen as the central metaphor of the book. Years later, Ish has several opportunities to pass the car in and out of San Francisco. Each time he does so, the car becomes somehow less distinct, a fuzziness that resonates first in his mind, then in the reader's mind. As the decades pass, Ish meets isolated pockets of survivors who have forgotten their American heritage. To these barbaric Mad Max types, Ish is the Last of the Americans. They tease him, they pinch him, they see him as a failed god type who could not deliver on the promises of the fabled technology of their legends. By the novel's end, he sees them pinching him, but he cannot feel them doing so. His senses have failed him just as America's technology had earlier failed to protect its population from the plague. Just before his death, Ish remembers the car on the bridge. Was it red? blue? green? Owned by Robson? Robinson? Robertson? He does not remember. But he feels sure that America has died, its technology has long since died, but its people live on, possibly learning from the mistakes oftheir predecessors, or maybe not. Stewart concludes his otherwise depressing work with a hint of optimism: \\"Man may come and go, but earth abides.\\"	2002-04-28
