US	49815344	R3S570A3A4R366	0471333727	265934539	Semiconductor Devices: Physics and Technology, 2nd Edition	Books	4	20	21	N	N	Excellent Basic Introduction for Engineers	This is a welcome 2nd edition of Sze's basic introduction to the technology underlying modern conventional semiconductor devices. The first edition of 1985 served the needs of its time admirably, but the 17 years since have seen much progress in the field, especially in the area of fabrication technology.<br />It should be stressed that this text is an introductory text, covering the basics well, but not taking the material much beyond the intermediate level. It is also very much an engineering text rather than a physics text, for the focus is squarely placed on the technology and not the underlying solid-state physics. As such, it is suited to undergraduate electrical/electronic engineers wishing to gain some appreciation of the physics underpinning conventional semiconductor devices, and the way they are fabricated, or for physicists wishing to gain some perspective on the fabrication and operation of the same, but it is in no way a comprehensive textbook on semiconductor physics.<br />Nevertheless, the material that is presented is well chosen, and well explained. The English prose style is somewhat pedestrian, but this is no great flaw in an engineering textbook. All the essentials of semiconductor materials (almost exclusively Si and GaAs) are described, the p-n junction, as well as the major device types (BJTs, (MOS/MES)FETs, microwave diodes, LEDs, lasers, etc.) and the modern technologies employed for their fabrication. In some senses, the section on fabrication technologies, taking up fully a third of the book, is perhaps its best section, for fabrication is rarely given such emphasis (although, again, not detailed, but covering most salient points) in an introductory book.<br />The pedagogical method employed by Sze is sound, and relevant worked examples are provided. The only short-coming is perhaps the relative brevity of the end-of-chapter problems, for which no answers are provided, but, in such a textbook, I feel that it is not really necessary to work through them to gain a solid grasp of the material presented.<br />Physically, the book is much more attractive than the previous edition. The cover is more appealling, and the text is well set in a two-colour print. The diagrams are nothing special, but they are generally clear and explain their point well, and are certainly much improved from the first edition, especially those in the fabrication section.<br />Just a final comment on other reviews: it is difficult to see how this book may be regarded as a bible of any sort, for the material is covered in quite a superficial manner. I wonder if they are not mistaking it for the 'big Sze', viz., Sze's 'Physics of Semiconductor Devices', which is another, much larger and more comprehensive, work of Sze's.	2003-07-12
US	49815344	R2RB4ZYPRMB0D6	0631226362	995865548	A Guide to Old English	Books	5	31	32	N	N	Fulfils its stated goals admirably.	Mitchell and Robinson's 'A Guide to Old English' is exactly what it claims to be: it smooths the path before the would-be reader of Old English and points out both the obstacles and the areas of interest along the way. It guides the reader through the highways and byways of Old English, and allows him to rapidly gain a reading knowledge of Old English, and some understanding of the workings of the language. Its goal is acquaintance with the tools necessary to decode actual Old English texts, rather than mastery of the language, insofar as composition is a topic omitted altogether. No attempt is made to train the reader to produce Old English.<br />This guide is not a language textbook in the usual sense of the word. It does not progressively present points of grammar and lists of vocabulary, followed by relevant exercises and translations. Instead, it comprises two parts. The first gives a fairly detailed overview of the grammar and historical context of Old English, whilst the second contains prose and verse texts, accompanied by copious notes, for the reader to attempt. The focus of the first part is not so much the acquisition of paradigms and rules as familiarisation with the general structure of Old English. The section on syntax, very important in Old English, is remarkably comprehensive. The collection of texts in the second part is, in my opinion, well chosen, and representative of the breath of texts in Old English, without dismissing the most famous texts. One particularly useful feature of the guide is its glossary, which contains every word found in the readings, and, for every occurrence of a word in the texts, its part is indicated in the glossary. This simplifies the task of deciphering a text enormously, and obviates the necessity for a separate dictionary.<br />This sixth edition is not greatly different to the previous editions: minor errors have been corrected, a few small additions on minor points of grammar have been made. The most important change is perhaps the addition of a few texts, e.g., the well-known 'Wulf and Eadwacer', but, all in all, the previous editions were already excellent, and there is no cogent reason to purchase this edition if a previous one is already on hand.<br />In short, then, Mitchell and Robinson have produced a remarkably usable guide to Old English that is at once instructive and interesting. One could do much worse than to acquire this work if rapid acquisition of reading ability in Old English is desired. As noted by a previous review, the book is not really suited to philologists seeking to understand the history and evolution of English and its place within the Germanic languages. As far as I can tell, this is its single greatest shortcoming, but it doesn't detract much from its purpose. I would heartily recommend this book as an introduction to Old English.	2002-12-07
US	49815344	RRBX8BF4002KV	0674002474	665196106	Chinese History: A Manual, Revised and Enlarged	Books	5	24	25	N	N	Peerless Resource for Chinese Historiography	Wilkinson's 'Chinese History: A Manual' is an essential volume on the bookshelf of any serious Chinese historiographer or scholar of Chinese history. Since the publication of the first edition, this book has very much become a standard reference for Chinese history. Note, though, that this is not a textbook on Chinese history, although one can certainly learn a great deal about Chinese history from it. It serves better as a handbook on Chinese history, an informative reference one consults to discover resources for the study of divers aspects of Chinese history.<br />The first section provides an excellent introduction to Chinese history, and the methods of Chinese historiography. Topics such as language, geography, demography, chronology, statistics, etc., are introduced, and reference works such as dictionaries and encyclopaedias are discussed in some detail. This section provides much of the groundwork necessary for study of Chinese history.<br />The remainder of the book is devoted to the description of the primary and secondary sources of historical documents, categorising them by genre, era and topic. Some 4,300 sources and references are described, from pre-Qin periods to the modern era, making the book an excellent first-port-of-call for identifying historical texts and documents. Wilkinson's work is especially helpful because the resources are not merely presented as lists, but their context is described, and often, some evaluation of the quality, worth, reliability, ubiquity, etc., is presented. Difficulties and obstacles encountered in research are mentioned, and solutions are often suggested.<br />This is a revised version of the 1998 edition, enlarged to include republican period. An already excellent manual was improved upon, and there is little I can say to criticise this edition. The book is physically well bound and the print is clear and of a good size: no magnifying glass is necessary. One particularly laudable feature of this book is that where English is employed for terms particular to Chinese culture or history, the Chinese term is given throughout, and the name of texts and sources are always given in Chinese. Moreover, romanisation is generally accompanied by Chinese characters, elminating the often frustrating guesswork involved in trying to figure out the characters corresponding to a romanised phrase. My only complaint is that, although Pinyin romanisation is used consistently, the tone marks are generally omitted.<br />In short, then, I have nothing but praise for Wilkinson's work. It is an indispensible guide to the study of Chinese historiography, and constitutes an excellent resource for anyone at all interested in Chinese history. Although written as a handbook for research, I have found the book suited to casual browse, and I often use it as a coffee-book table: I open it to a random page, and, more often than not, I find something that strikes my fancy and piques my interest. All in all, this book is a valuable resource seldom to be met with elsewhere.	2002-11-30
US	49815344	R16Z8A0DLK3A8B	0804832064	336951797	Reading & Writing Chinese: Traditional Character Edition, A Comprehensive Guide to the Chinese Writing System	Books	4	233	236	N	N	Useful for Learners	McNaughton's 'Reading and Writing Chinese' remains a very useful guide for learners attempting to acquire literacy in Chinese. It comprises two sections, the first listing some 1,062 elementary* characters with its stroke order, Mandarin pronunciation and meaning, as well as a few compound words using the character and the simplified version of the character if it exists. The second section comprises the remainder of the characters in the official list of 2,000 basic characters promulgated by the Chinese government, and gives much the same information as the first section, save the stroke order (which the learner should already be conversant with after learning the first section) and the compound words. The book contains a number of useful indices that may be used to look up unfamiliar characters by pronunciation, stroke-count, etc.<br />*McNaughton has adopted a largely pedagogical order in the presentation of characters. Unlike many books which present the most commonly-used characters first (although this is not to say that the characters he presents are not, in the main, common ones), characters that are geometrically simplest are first presented, and complex characters are built-up from the simpler parts already presented. This does, in many ways, aid the memorisation of complex characters, if their parts are already known, but it also has the effect of presenting some rare, obscure, archaic or otherwise obsolete characters early on, so that they may be used as a section of a more complex, but common, character later on. Similarly, the compound words are chosen so that they only use characters that have already been learnt.<br />One feature that I liked about this book is that it gives hints on learning the characters, and etymological information on the derivation of the character if it is useful for helping memorise the characters. As mentioned before, there is great emphasis placed on the building up of a character from its parts.<br />This edition is a revised version of the 1979 edition containing a number of changes. The most significant change is probably the switch from Yale romanisation to Pinyin. The former was designed for pedagogical purposes, and is perhaps more convenient for English speakers, but the latter is increasingly becoming standard and the switch was probably not unwise. The second notable change is the use of the kaishu (model script) in the head characters in place of the (often idiosyncratically) handwritten characters of the original edition. I thought there was some charm in the handwritten edition, but I suppose, for the sake of standardisation, the new format is better, for the kaishu script is something of a normative standard in Chinese. (The disadvantage is that it looks like it has been written with a brush rather than the pen, whereas most learners would probably use a pen. The differences between brush- and pen-written characters, however, are slight.) The compound words have also been increased in number, and chosen to better reflect the vocabulary of contemporary Chinese, an added bonus, although they really only illustrate the uses of the character, and does not constitute a resource for acquiring Chinese vocabulary.<br />All in all then, it is a very useful book for a learner beginning on the road to literacy in Chinese. I have not given five stars, not because I discovered any major flaws, but because I did not get the impression of outstanding excellence that merits it. I really have no complaint of note to make about the book. (Inclusion of Cantonese pronunciation in addition to the Mandarin, however, would be a welcome bonus.)	2002-11-25
US	49815344	R35HACGD49ABL6	4770024800	116948814	Kodansha's Furigana Japanese Dictionary: Japanese-English English-Japanese	Books	5	160	163	N	N	Excellent for Beginners	Kodansha's Furigana dictionary is simply one of the best Japanese&lt;-&gt;English dictionaries I have seen on the market, especially for students of Japanese. The English-Japanese volume of this wonderful  dictionary is simply indispensable to beginners of the language once they  have mastered the two kana scripts, viz, hiragana and katakana, as would be  expected of any serious student, since the dictionary does not contain any  Romanised entries.<br />One great feature about this dictionary particularly  valuable to beginners who may not know many kanji is that all the kanjis,  be they in the entries or the examples, have small kanas printed over them  indicating their pronunciation, i.e., furigana. The definitions themselves  are up-to-date, clear, being written for English speakers, and most entries  contain illustrative example sentences indicating of usage.<br />The  English-Japanese section lists some 14,000 entries of commonly used English  words. This section is rather limited in scope, for the native English  speaker is likely to find that the word he wishes to translate into  Japanese is not listed, and an alternative need be found.<br />In the  Japanese-English section, the entries are listed in kana, in the kana  order, which is much better than other Romanised dictionaries which list  Japanese words in English alphabetical order. If kanji exists for that  entry, then it immediately follows the headword, after which comes the  definition. Synonyms are also indicated in the entries, and ample example  sentences are given. Three appendices are included, listing verb  conjugations, numerical counters and place names.<br />The book itself is  physically well produced, with a hardcover. The paper is of good quality,  and the print is clear although none too large. Moreover, the size of the  book is neither so large nor so heavy as to become cumbersome or  inconvenient to use. Many of the typographical errors in the previous  separate editions have been corrected in this combined edition.<br />In  summary, then, the Kodansha's Furigana English &amp; Japanese dictionary is  a great boon to any serious beginning or intermediate student of Japanese.  For the advance learner, however, its limited scope of some sixteen  thousand words makes it perhaps not quite as useful. Two of its features,  i.e., doing away with romaji (Romanised script), which is very irritating  to users familiar with kana, by using kana instead (as the Japanese would,  in any case), and indicating the reading of all kanjis with furigana, sets  this dictionary apart from others in the market, and I would not hesitate  to recommend it to any serious student embarking on a study of the Japanese  language.	2000-05-14
US	49815344	RXLHHT0I6ZK5P	0804820368	967911183	The New Nelson Japanese-English Character Dictionary	Books	4	83	91	N	N	Significantly Improved though not Perfect	The New Nelson Japanese-English Character Dictionary is based on the classic Nelson edition, but has undergone significant thorough revision, although whether the changes be improvements or otherwise is debateable,  insofar that this new edition little resembles its older counterpart save  in content. In any case, neither editions of this dictionary are suitable  for beginners in the language, offering scant help in point of usage and  composition.<br />This edition of the dictionary has a totally new system of  arranging characters, discarding the strange algorithmic system in favour  of the much better traditional arrangement based on the arrangement by  semantic components, known as radicals, used in Chinese dictionaries  following the famous and authoritative 42-volume Kangxi Character  Dictionary of the Chinese Ch'ing dynasty which sets out over 40,000  characters classified under 214 radicals. This is an improvement only  insofar that the idiosyncratic algorithmic system of Nelson was replace by  the traditional system. However, this transition was not completed, and,  instead of the full traditional system being implement, only the veneer of  using the traditional arrangement is present. Upon closer examination, one  finds that certain characters have been classified under different radicals  than that under the traditional system fixed by the Kangxi dictionary.  Granted that the Kangxi dictionary is a Chinese work that would not contain  kokuji, characters invented in Japan, but these characters are very few in  number compared to those borrowed from China, and, in any case, were made  up according to the principles of Chinese characters, thereby having a  natural place in the Kangxi classification anyway. This half-hearted  implementation of the traditional system is a great misfortune, for it is  at once irritating and disconcerting, making the finding of certain  characters a wild-goose chase indeed. Despite the deficiencies of this  method of arrangement, it is yet a significant improvement on the  ridiculous mathematical arrangement used in the classic peculiar to that  book, making it difficult to move to the traditional arrangement used by  most Japanese dictionaries.<br />This new edition is very much larger and  heavier, and cumbersome to use, due to the inclusion of the Universal  Radical Index. This URI would seem to be an attempt to repair the  shortcoming in the arrangement of characters outline above. It lists each  character under every radical that could possibly be the character's  radical. This makes for a very big index, substantially increasing the  book's bulk without adding functionality that could have been more easily  achieved by proper traditional arrangement of characters. However, the  arrangement being what it is, and the cross-references in the dictionary  being almost eliminated altogether, the URI is more-or-less  essential.<br />All, however, does not bode ill for the dictionary. The  quality of the entries themselves are what they always have been: clear,  concise and comprehensible. They have been thoroughly revised to make the  definitions more up-to-date and more copious, a number of new words having  been added. In terms of content, there is indeed a noticeable improvement.  Note, though, that this is not a writer's dictionary, for it gives no  indication of how a particular character or word might be used. Rather, it  is for the reader who encounters unknown words in a text he reads, and  desires to seek its meaning in the dictionary. For this latter use, the  dictionary serves its purpose admirably, having such a comprehensive  vocabulary that one seldom notices its omissions.<br />Physically, the  dictionary is well produced, giving allowances for its large size. The  print is sharp, clear and not too small; the liberal use of white space  gives the page a much more appealing look. This book is also well bound and  generally handsome in appearance, the weighty tome it is.<br />Whilst I would  not dissuade a potential buyer from this book, I would advise him to  consider carefully whether the classic edition, despite its awkward  algorithmic arrangement and silghtly dated entries, might not better suit  his needs than this new edition. I would not hesitate to recommend this  edition to any advanced student of the language, the two main detracting  factors being the arrangement of characters, which is no worse than in the  classic edition and its size. Nonetheless, if size is no consideration,  then this is indeed an improvement on the classic edition, albeit not  perfect, but nonetheless having a better arrangement of characters, a more  copious vocabulary and more up-to-date entries. In short, this new  dictionary is certainly better than the classic, and surpassed by few other  Japanese-English character dictionaries on the market, and flawed though it  is, nonetheless indispensable for the serious reader of Japanese.	2000-05-13
US	49815344	R31FTSHSD3V0GF	4770020554	107230783	Kodansha's Furigana English-Japanese Dictionary (English and Japanese Edition)	Books	5	26	27	N	N	Excellent Dictionary for Beginners	Kodansha's Furigana dictionaries are simply a few of the best Japanese&lt;-&gt;English dictionaries I have seen on the market, especially for students of Japanese. The English-Japanese volume of this wonderful  dictionary is simply indispensable to beginners of the language once they  have mastered the two kana scripts, viz, hiragana and katakana, as would be  expected of any serious student, since the dictionary does not contain any  Romanised entries.<br />The entries comprise a basic vocabulary of some 14,000  of the most commonly used words in English. The Japanese equivalent follows  the head word, written in kanji and kana. One great feature about this  dictionary particularly valuable to beginners who may not know many kanji  is that all the kanjis, be they in the entries or the examples, have small  kanas printed over them indicating their pronunciation, i.e., furigana. The  definitions themselves are up-to-date, clear, being written for English  speakers, and most entries contain illustrative example sentences  indicating of usage. An appendix listing verb conjugations is  included.<br />The book itself is physically well produced, with a soft vinyl  cover. The paper is of good quality, and the print is clear without being  too small. Moreover, the size of the book is neither so large nor so heavy  as to become inconvenient to the user.<br />In summary, then, the Kodansha's  Furigana English-Japanese dictionary is a great boon to any serious  beginning or intermediate student of Japanese. For the advance learner,  however, its limited scope of some sixteen thousand words makes it perhaps  not quite as useful. Two of its features, i.e., doing away with romaji  (Romanised script), which is very irritating to users familiar with kana,  by using kana instead (as the Japanese would, in any case), and indicating  the reading of all kanjis with furigana, sets this dictionary apart from  others in the market, and I would not hesitate to recommend it to any  seriousstudent embarking on a study of the Japanese language.	2000-05-12
US	49815344	R1VWOA2619NHTZ	006019653X	630618488	Brewer's Dictionary of Phrase and Fable	Books	5	43	43	N	N	Just Indispensable	This book is simply one of the best dictionaries of its kind ever to have been published, and, I might add, Brewer's work has already become a classic. It contains a wealth of entries from divers areas, including  mythology, history, classics, language, as well as common sayings, phrases  and legends. Useful as a reference though it is, this dictionary is  eminently suited to a casual browse, which one will invariably find  interesting, entertaining and edifying, containing many obscure tidbits of  trivia that catches one's eyes. This edition, unfortunately, omits a few  entries that were present in previous editions, and this is a sad loss,  but, all in all, the book is worth every penny, and is a valuable reference  on anyone's bookshelf, especially to those with literary pretensions.	2000-05-12
US	49815344	R3LAKMOQPKE4IA	4770019831	107230783	Kodansha's Furigana Japanese-English Dictionary (A Kodansha dictionary)	Books	5	19	19	N	N	Excellent For Learners of Japanese	Kodansha's Furigana dictionaries are simply a few of the best Japanese&lt;-&gt;English dictionaries I have seen on the market, especially for students of Japanese. The Japanese-English volume of this wonderful  dictionary is simply indispensable to beginners of the language once they  have mastered the two kana scripts, viz, hiragana and katakana, as would be  expected of any serious student, since the dictionary does not contain any  Romanised entries.<br />The entries are listed in kana, in the kana order,  which is much better than other Romanised dictionaries which list Japanese  words in English alphabetical order. If kanji exists for that entry, then  it immediately follows the headword, after which comes the definition. One  great feature about this dictionary particularly valuable to beginners who  may not know many kanji is that all the kanjis, be they in the entries or  the examples, have small kanas printed over them indicating their  pronunciation, i.e., furigana. The definitions themselves are up-to-date,  clear, being written for English speakers, and most entries contain  illustrative example sentences indicating of usage. Synonyms are also  indicated in the entries. Three appendices are included, listing verb  conjugations, numerical counters and place names.<br />The book itself is  physically handsomely produced, with a soft vinyl cover. The paper is of  good quality, and the print is clear without being too small. Moreover, the  size of the book is neither so large nor so heavy as to become inconvenient  to the user.<br />In summary, then, the Kodansha's Furigana Japanese-English  dictionary is a great boon to any serious beginning student of Japanese.  For the advance learner, however, its limited scope of some sixteen  thousand words makes it perhaps not quite as useful. Two of its features,  i.e., doing away with romaji (Romanised script), which is very irritating  to users familiar with kana, by using kana instead (as the Japanese would,  in any case), and indicating the reading of all kanjis with furigana, sets  this dictionary apart from others in the market, and I would not hesitate  to recommend it to any serious student embarking on a study of the Japanese  language.	2000-05-12
US	49815344	R2CD889CHHONH1	0877799156	211621092	The Official Scrabble Players Dictionary (Third Edition)	Books	1	21	24	N	N	Disappointing but Nonetheless Used	The Official Scrabble Players' Dictionary (OSPD) is flawed in many aspects, although it is used by American Scrabble Players. In particular, the standard of lexicography used to compile this dictionary is of doubtful  orthodoxy. For instance, whereas the rules of the game expressly allows  slang and archaic words, many of the same were omitted from the dictionary  on the grounds of 'offensiveness', despite their being attested of old.  What gives the publishers the right to censor the English language. On the  other side of the coin, many words of questionable membership of the  English language such as the 'aarghh' so proudly mentioned in the synopsis,  were controvertibly included. The quality of the print, too, is none too  good. In point of merit, the only aspect in which the OSPD is superior to  the Official Scrabble Words (OSW), published by Chamber's, is that it  includes definitions, albeit brief and sketchy, whereas the latter merely  lists the words. Of course, this defect in is easily remedied by acquiring  the Chamber's English Dictionary, which is the official dictionary used for  Scrabble, and of which OSW is a derivative work listing all but very long  words, and which, in any case, contains much more comprehensive definitions  and other lexicographical aids than the OSPD. In short, Chamber's English  Dictionary and OSW are contain a much more satisfactory choice of words  than the OSPD, and I would caution the casual player against buying the  Official Scrabble Players' Dictionary unless forced to do so, Chamber's  being vastly superior.	2000-05-10
US	49815344	R2CTA1OK2PVKD5	0582362407	965032878	Kennedy's Revised Latin Primer	Books	5	39	39	N	N	Wonderful Primer for Intermediate Students	Kennedy's Revised Latin Primer is one of the best Latin primers of its size and scope I have seen to date. The classical Latin language is described in all its essential details, with some reference to  pre-classical Latin that the student might encounter in his readings. The  history, phonology, morphology, syntax and prosody are covered successively  as is usual in primers. All the essential facts, both the regularities and  the irregularities, of the language are presented in clear, easy-to-read  manner, with paradigms well set-out in tables and lists.<br />I should  consider this book to be one of the classic Latin primers, well known and  used commonly in schools. Note, though, that this book is not an  introductory textbook for learning Latin; it is rather a primer for the  purposes of revising and getting a deeper understanding of what is already  learnt, as well as for acquiring further instruction on matters of syntax,  etc., once the basics are known. It is one of the best primers available  for intermediate students, and would serve admirably as a reference grammar  for beginning students as well. I would recommend it as a supplement to any  introductory textbook, and as a guide to those progressing further.	2000-05-08
US	49815344	RW2NVID0A5SH6	0674305515	83052275	The Five Thousand Dictionary: A Chinese-English Pocket Dictionary and Index to the Character Cards of the College of Chinese Studies, California ... on the fifth Peking ed (Harvard Paperbacks)	Books	1	3	5	N	N	Handy Pocket Dictionary for Beginning Students	This dictionary was a very popular pocket dictionary used by many students of the Chinese language, although it has largely been superseded by more recent dictionaries. Nevertheless, Fenn's classic work still remains one  the old standard pocket dictonaries. As the title suggests, the dictionary  lists five thousand Chinese characters in their standard form (although  common variant forms are included) with their associated meanings and  common compound words. Also given is the characters radical, phonetic  element, alternate pronunciations and frequency of occurrence. The  characters are listed alphabetically according to their pronunciations,  which is given in the Wade romanisation based on the traditional dialect of  Peiping (now Peking). Make useful tables of linguistic, geographical and  historical information, and indices are also provided, including an index  listing the characters in their traditional radical order. All in all, this  dictionary is well adapted to be a pocket companion for the traveller to  China, containing all the information required in an everyday environment  at the time of publication. Now, the dictionary is less useful as it omits  several decades of vocabulary, but nevertheless still valuable as a guide  and reference to Chinese characters and compound words.	2000-05-07
US	49815344	R3STJ1JUW5U9S3	0486213218	510470308	Chinese Characters: Their Origin, Etymology, History, Classification, and Signification: A Thorough Study from Chinese Documents	Books	4	9	12	N	N	Dated but Nonetheless Interesting and Instructive	Translated from the French 4th edition, Wieger's 'Chinese Characters' is a excellent resource for Chinese etymology, given paucity of such works available in western languages. It basically outlines the origins,  etymology, history, classification and signification of Chinese characters,  based on thorough, albeit old, study from Chinese documents. It comprises  an introduction, which furnishes explanations on the history, types, and  analysis and classification of Chinese characters, followed by some 200  etymological 'lessons' covering the origin and derivation of particular  basic characters and parts thereof. There is also a small section contain  facsimile copies of the oldest specimens of Chinese writing. Finally, there  are three lexicons (containing at a rough estimate some 10,000 characters  each, which arrange characters grouped according to their phonetic  component, their radical (semantic component) and their pronunciation  respectively, each entry of which gives the character, its pronunciation  and its meanings. Its coverage of Chinese characters is both comprehensive  and succinct.<br />This book will prove to be an absorbing read for anyone  interested in Chinese characters and their origin. However, without casting  aspersions on the quality of the research and the accuracy of the text, I'm  not sure that this text is an authoritative reference on character  etymology. (I'm not saying it isn't, although I doubt a work of such scope  could be without error.) Nonetheless, I find this book very useful for  learning characters, particularly the lexicon listing characters according  to their phonetic component, since learning lists of characters arranged in  this order makes it much easier to remember than learning them arranged  according to radical or pronunciation, since characters grouped this way  are both similar in shape and in pronunciation. The Romanisation system  used is the Wade system, which is somewhat old, and the meanings given for  thecharacters are very brief, with no usage notes. Also, the characters  described by the book are traditional characters; no mention is made of the  simplified. The research upon which the book is based is almost a century  old.<br />Notwithstanding all of the above, I find that the merits of the book  far outweigh its shortcomings, and, for its price, is certainly an  interesting guide to the etymology of Chinese characters as well as being a  passable reference work for learning characters. I would recommend it to  anyone quite curious about Chinese characters and its history. It might,  however, prove quite boring to the casual reader who has only a mild  curiousity and does not wish to learn about the etymologies of individual  characters.	2000-05-06
US	49815344	R25ND5MPPOQY6S	4770015534	4621620	Kodansha's Compact Kanji Guide: A New Character Dictionary for Students and Professionals (A Kodansha dictionary)	Books	4	11	11	N	N	Good Reference for Beginners	Kodansha's Compact Kanji Guide is an excellent reference for beginners learning the Japanese written language. It contains all the Jooyou Kanji (the official list of 1,950 essential Kanjis of the Japanese Ministry of  Education) and some 18,000 compounds, focussing particularly on those  appearing frequently in Japanese mass media. In particular, great emphasis  is laid on compounds pertaining to the business world. Beyond this,  however, the scope of this book is fairly limited. It contains few literary  words, and, in general, too few characters and compounds to be of any use  to the advanced learner at all. In fact, the book is surprisingly large and  heavy for the quantity of content it contains.<br />The On and Kun readings of  the kanji are provided in kana; in particular, the On readings appear in  katakana, so the reader must be familiar with this syllabary. Pronunciation  of compounds are also given, with multiple  or irregular readings  indicated. The dictionary makes little use of romaji. Although the  definitions provided are fairly useful, few usage notes are provided making  the dictionary less useful for Japanese composition. Nevertheless, it is  very handy for the beginning student to check the meanings of unfamiliar  words.<br />The arrangement of the characters more-or-less follow the  traditional Chinese arrangement according to radicals, although,  unfortunately, certain variants usually considered to be the same radical  are separated into different radicals in this dictionary, and, hence, some  characters appear in a location different from that where one would find it  in a traditional character dictionary. Three indices provided allows one to  locate a given character by radical, stroke-count and pronunciation. Each  kanji also has its stroke order displayed for the convenience of the  learner.<br />The book is physically well produced, with a vinyl-type soft  cover and fairly thick paper of high quality that takes wear fairly well.  The print is clear, and the head characters are printed very large (about a  centimetre square) so that its composition can be clearly seen. Although  the book is by no means large, I would not myself have describe it as  'compact' as its title suggests.<br />A beginning learner of written Japanese  could do worse than to acquire this book, although, as an intermediate  learner myself, I find that the scope of the book is not really very  sufficient, more often than not, the character or compound that I go to  look up is not in the book. For those of us who are not businessmen, the  Kanji Guide's focus on financial and business vocabulary would be somewhat  annoying. In short, then, Kodansha's Compact Kanji Guide is great  reference, but for beginners only.	2000-05-04
US	49815344	RDG3E2Z5RVV5B	0804804087	466606947	The Modern Reader's Japanese-English Character Dictionary	Books	3	8	12	N	N	Comprehensive and Useful Despite Awkward Arrangement	This is perhaps one of the classic Japanese-English character dictionaries. It contains practically all thre characters and compounds a serious learner of Japanese would ever encounter. Despite its size, this dictionary is certainly one of the most useful Kanji dictionaries to have,  comprehensive yet concise.<br />     Each entry lists the On and Kun  pronunciations and meanings of the character, compounds beginning with that  character, their pronunciation and meanings. Unfortunately, the  pronunciations are given in romaji rather than kana, which any reasonable  student of Japanese would be familiar with. Although the characters are  listed under their simplified forms, the traditional form, where it  differs, is also provided in the entry. As such, the entries are very  comprehensive and useful.<br />     This dictionary, however, is very much for  the reader and not the writer. It helps little in Japanese composition as  no indication of usage is included in the description of the character and  its compounds. It is rather for readers to ascertain the meanings of  unfamiliar characters and compounds they come across, and for this purpose,  it fulfils its aims admirably.<br />     However, one extremely grave fault of  the dictionary is the order in which the characters are arranged. Departing  from the traditional arrangement under the classical radicals, Nelson has  devised, in this edition, a strange algorithmic method classifying  characters which makes it difficult indeed to locate characters,  particularly for those familiar with the traditional system. The departure  from the traditional system also means that readers who learn Nelson's odd  system will be unable to use other references using the traditional system  effectively. Were it not for this flaw, the dictionary would surely have  been given a higher rating. The situation, however, is ameliorated by the  fact that cross-references have been included to point readers to the new  radical at the appropriate spot for the old radical.      The dictionary  also contains many useful indices and appendices listing characters  according to their pronunciation, describing the method of locating  characters, historical and geographical tables, and so forth. The phonetic  index, in particular, is very useful for finding a character whose  pronunciation one knows but whose exact form once cannot precisely  recall.<br />     In short, this is one of the best Japanese-English character  dictionaries around, particularly with regard to its content. It is  essential for any advanced student of Japanese, and will prove very useful  to intermediate students as well. Its size and scope is such that only  rarely will you be dissapointed with an entry or lack thereof. Although  sadly marred by Nelson's unfortunate arrangement of the characters, a very  serious flaw in a character dictionary -- imagine if an English dictionary  departed from the traditional alphabetical arrangement of words, and  adopted an entirely new syllabic arrangement, or altered the traditional  alphabetical order so the vowels came first, or something similarly  inexcusable -- the dictionary is would otherwise be a great investment.	2000-05-03
US	49815344	R13FPOCSV3JXLU	0844238112	905826549	Latin (Teach Yourself)	Books	5	78	78	N	N	Wonderful Self-Teaching Latin Text	A person interested in learning Latin could do worse than to buy this book. I've yet to see a better book in the Teach Yourself series. It is clear, concise and comprehensive, giving a very solid foundation of  classical Latin. Aimed at the independent learner, it contains everything  one might need to learn the language to a very sufficient level of  proficiency.<br />The book is divided into thirty-one chapters, each of which  introduces several new points of Latin grammar, all with ample illustrative  examples and notes, followed by Latin readings, i.e., Latin-to-English  translation exercises. A vocabulary is provided in each of the first few  chapters, and thereafter, any new words encountered will be found in the  glossary at the back of the book. There are also additional revision  exercises provided after every third chapter.<br />As far as the content is  concerned, the book gives a very comprehensive coverage of Latin grammar as  well as introducing copious vocabulary. It does, however, progress quite  rapidly, so each chapter has to be thoroughly mastered before moving on. A  key is provided for all the translation and revision exercise, a feature  that is very much in its favour, particularly since the exercises tend to  be fairly difficult.<br />Physically, the book is not badly produced. The  print, whilst not especially small, is not the sharpest, although by no  means unclear. However, the boldface employed is a particularly dense one,  which makes it slightly harder to read. Nonetheless, this is not an  obstacle to using the book.<br />All in all, Gavin Bett's 'Teach Yourself  Latin' is a great text for learning Latin on your own. It is surprisingly  comprehensive and explains the language lucidly whilst provoking thought  and interest. I would heartily recommend this book to anyone embarking on  the journey that is learning Latin.	2000-05-02
US	49815344	R1CZ3F463B4SLC	0835126331	598569089	Gateway to the Chinese Classics: A Practical Guide to Literary	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Useful as a Basic Introduction	'Gateway to the Chinese Classics' is an excellent introduction for those who wish to get a feel for classical Chinese. It is, however, very much an elementary text, giving the complete beginner a mere taste of the beauty of  the language. The text itself is poorly organised, with one chapter leading  on to the next in a progressive manner; it is not at all clear that a given  chapter deals with a particular topic, which makes it fairly useless as a  reference grammar, a problem compounded by the lack of an index. Despite  this failing, the reader who works through the book chapter by chapter will  have a good foundation in classical Chinese by the end of the book.<br />Each  chapter generally comprises vocabulary and notes thereupon, grammatical  structures, examples thereof, and exercises. One notable omission is  answers for the exercises, and not all the passages have a translation  provided. By the end of the book, the reader would have a passing  familiarity with most of the essential basics of classical  Chinese.<br />Physically, the book is well printed and bound, the Chinese  characters being clear and sufficiently large. Most of the textual errors  marring the previous edition have been corrected to make for a much better  text. The pages are fairly sparely printed, allowing ample space for  personal notes.<br />All in all, this book is an excellent, step-by-step  introduction to classical Chinese. However, it is suitable only for those  who wish to work through the book from start to finish. It does presuppose  some knowledge of Modern Chinese written in the traditional script. There  are worse ways to get a feeling for the beauty, cadence and brevity of the  Classical Chinese language, which was the official written language of  China until less than a century ago.	2000-05-01
US	49815344	R3M3U3BHSPA854	0941340112	689878849	Read and Write Chinese: A Simplified Guide to the Chinese Characters (English and Chinese Edition)	Books	3	19	21	N	N	Useful guide but far from ideal	This book is a useful guide to Chinese characters, although it has many shortcomings and flaws. It lists 3,200 characters with both their Mandarin and Cantonese pronunciations, and their most common meanings. The main  character of each entry is printed large, and the stroke order of the  character is given. The relative frequency of occurence of each character  is also given. However, no indication of how the characters are used is  made, nor are any compounds included in the entries.<br />The characters are  listed in the traditional order according to the Kangxi radicals. The book  has indices which list characters according to their Mandarin and Cantonese  pronunciations, but they of limited use because the tones are not  distinguished in the indices. Moreover, the index lists page references  rather than characters themselves, which makes it very tedious to find a  character by means of the pronunciation as each page listed has to be  checked. There is also an index of meanings, but again, only page  references are given, and the meanings are not comprehensive enough to be  useful. Basically, one must be familiar with the Kangxi radical system in  order to locate characters with any speed.<br />The Cantonese pronunciations  of characters are a great boon to this book, setting it apart from other  similar works. However, the merit of this feature is marred by the fact  that the vulgar Cantonese pronunciations are given for some characters,  instead of the proper ones. These pronunciations are commonly heard in Hong  Kong slang, but are nonetheless incorrect.<br />All in all, this book is  generally useful, particularly for its Cantonese pronunciations. The  definitions given are brief, and the characters are large and clear. This  book is a character text suitable for the beginner in Cantonese or  Mandarin.	2000-04-30
US	49815344	R2LDCT9OWLFZH1	0198642288	13127223	The Pocket Oxford Latin Dictionary	Books	2	11	15	N	N	Only Merit is Small Size	This dictionary is not the most useful dictionary I've seen around. Indeed, it is very limited in scope and contains very few entries. The entries that are in fact included in the dictionary are not particularly  helpful. In particular, the definitions are not always accurate, although  they are concise.<br /> The format of the entries can be quite confusing; the  presentation of verbs being quite the worse I've seen. For instance, the  principal parts of the verb retraho is given as 'retraho, xi, ctum, [3]'.  It takes considerable guesswork to realise that the 'xi' and 'ctum' stand  for 'retraxi' and 'retractum' respectively. In this aspect, it is not  particularly helpful to beginners, who cannot be expected to guess the  correct form.<br />Otherwise, the layout of the dictionary is refreshingly  well done, partly due to the sparseness of each page. The print is clear  and of a good size.<br />All in all, it is suitable only for the beginner in  Latin because of the paucity of entries, and, even so, the presentation of  verbs might be confusing. It is certainly nowhere near the level of  excellence attained by the big Oxford Latin Dictionary. One point in its  favour is it's small size, being quite the smallest I've seen (along with  the Collins Gem one) and certainly lives up to it's 'pocket' description,  fitting quite easily in one.	2000-04-30
US	49815344	R2OSOKUWICVM4P	9576122309	82478678	Far East Chinese-English Dictionary	Books	5	62	63	N	N	Unsurpassed Chinese-English Dictionary	This dictionary is the best Chinese-English dictionary I have come across. I've yet to see anything that even comes close to the level of excellence that it attains. This dictionary is essential for any intermediate and advanced student of Chinese.<br />In it are contained some 120,000 entries  arranged under some 7330 characters, selected from vast wealth of sources  ranging from Chinese classics to newspapers and colloquial language,  emphasising wide application and current usage. Whilst not an encyclopaedic  dictionary, the entries often contain cultural information. Many proper  nouns are included, e.g., names of famous people, famous events,  geographical names, etc.<br />The characters in the dictionary are arranged  according to the classical Kangxi radical method, and the common vulgar and  corrupt forms of the characters are listed in addition to their standard  form. A table of characters whose radical is difficult to identify is  provided to aid users. Indices with the characters arranged according to  their pronunciation are also very helpful for finding characters whose  pronunciation one knows, but whose exact form one cannot remember.<br />The  definitions of the characters and phrases are clear and concise, often  containing encyclopaedic information, particularly those words pertaining  to classical Chinese culture. Pronunciation for the individual characters  is given in Pinyin, Zhuyin and Gwoyeu Romatzyh, whilst the pronunciation of  the phrases are given only in Zhuyin.<br />Physically, the dictionary is of a  very manageable size, containing some 2000 very thin pages, which are of  quality paper. The print, whilst not large, is clean and clearly  legible.<br />All in all, then, the Far East Chinese-English Dictionary is a  great asset on any Chinese learner's bookshelf. It has everything in its  favour: its price, its size, its quality and its content. I simply cannot  go past this dictionary, being both comprehensive and concise.	2000-04-30
US	49815344	R2WN3O4B0S5389	0865162891	516896700	Thirty-Eight Latin Stories Designed to Accompany Wheelock's Latin  (Latin Edition)	Books	4	51	51	N	N	Useful Addition to Wheelock's Latin	38 Latin Stories is an excellent source of graded Latin prose to accompany Wheelock's Latin. As the title suggests, it contains 38 stories in Latin which are graded according to the chapters of Wheelock's. Each story more-or-less corresponds to one chapter in the textbook.<br />All vowel  lengths are marked in the stories, and each story has vocabulary on the  facing page containing words not in the textbook. There is also a useful  glossary at the back of the book.<br />However, for its price, it does not  actually contain much Latin text as the stories are each only half an A5  page long, and the print is fairly large. They are, however, interesting  and provide valuable additional reading material.<br />Despite this, I would  heartily recommend this book to anyone who wished to gain additional  experience and practice in reading Latin, over and above what is usually  provided in textbooks.	2000-04-30
US	49815344	R37O0CFK6VBI53	0078821231	637539994	C++: The Complete Reference	Books	1	3	7	N	N	Lucidly Written but Not Entirely Accurate	'C++: The Complete Reference' is, prima facie, a brilliantly written reference to the C++ language, with abundant useful examples and illustrative diagrams. The book is well set out, the print is clear and the  book is, on the whole, well produced. In fact, many have extolled its  virtues and sung its praise.<br />Unfortunately, this reference book is marred  by inaccuracies. Its description of the C++ language is on the whole  more-or-less there, but there are small errors here and there which detract  from the value of the book as a reference. These errors range in order of  gravity from negligible omissions of certain details, to the graver sin of  being blatant wrong. In particular, not all of the examples presented in  the book actually work.<br />Nonetheless, the book is lucidly written in an  engaging tone, and those who are not too worried about detail will find  this book useful. However, it should not be used as an authoritative guide  to the C++ language. In the absense of any other reference, this book will  serve its purpose.<br />Another minor short-coming is that the book is very  badly indexed, which is to say, the index might as well not exist. For a  reference book, the scope of its index is very limited, not being very  comprehensive. As a result, it is usually more expedient to leaf through  the book to find what you want and to resort to the index, will adds little  to the contents page.<br />In summary, then, this book an excellent reference  for the beginner to C++, being written in simple, east-to-understand  language. However, because of its inaccuracies, it is of no value  whatsoever to the advanced C++ programmer.	2000-04-30
US	49815344	R4PQYILBT3VDX	0521361230	319181269	The Korean Language (Cambridge Language Surveys)	Books	3	23	26	N	N	Solid but Nothing Extraordinary	This solidly-written survey of the Korean language is part of the Cambridge Language Survey series. Whilst fairly comprehensive and detailed, the book maintains reader interest for most parts, being aimed at the  professional or amateur linguist. For the general reader, however, the  meticulous description of Korean grammar that is the final chapter becomes  somewhat tedious, as does the preceding chapter on word formation.<br />Sohn's  survey of Korean is refreshingly broads, covering general and historical  background of the language, genetic affiliation, dialects, lexicon,  orthography, phonology, morphology and syntax. In general, each section is  lucidly written, and, where it does not get bogged down by detail,  enjoyable to read.<br />The book is on the whole fairly accurate, although a  few minor textual and factual errors have crept in, e.g., the statement  that Chinese characters comprise 1 to 32 strokes, where in fact characters  exist with many more than 32 strokes. Compared to the content of the text,  however, these errors are insignificant.<br />Physically, the book is well  printed, the typeface being sufficient large and clear. The Chinese  characters and Hangul are also clearly printed.<br />All in all, Sohn's 'The  Korean Language' is a solid survey of the language, on the whole fairly  objective, although a certain bias favouring the Korean language is  evident, and perhaps not entirely unexpected.	2000-04-13
US	49815344	R2MTM0F1R1C1AM	0835125378	573423639	Gateway to the Chinese Classics (English and Chinese Edition)	Books	3	15	15	N	N	Comprehensive but Sparse and Disorganised	'Gateway to the Chinese Classics' is an excellent introduction for those who wish to get a feel for classical Chinese. It is, however, very much an elementary text, giving the complete beginner a mere taste of the beauty of  the language.<br />The text itself is poorly organised, with one chapter  leading on to the next in a progressive manner; it is not at all clear that  a given chapter deals with a particular topic, which makes it fairly  useless as a reference grammar, a problem compounded by the lack of an  index. Despite this failing, the reader who works through the book chapter  by chapter will have a good foundation in classical Chinese by the end of  the book.<br />Each chapter generally comprises vocabulary and notes  thereupon, grammatical structures, examples thereof, and exercises. One  notable omission is answers for the exercises, and not all the passages  have a translation provided.<br />Physically, the book is well printed and  bound, the Chinese characters being clear and sufficiently large. There  are, however, a fair number of textual errors, albeit minor ones, which  detract slightly from the quality of the production.<br />All in all, this  book is an excellent, step-by-step introduction to classical Chinese.  However, it is suitable only for those who wish to work through the book  from start to finish. It does presuppose some knowledge of Modern Chinese  written in the traditional script.	2000-03-27
US	49815344	RSAOPLHSA22T4	0812090500	840930627	501 Latin Verbs (501 Verbs Series)	Books	3	13	18	N	N	Useful for Learners but not a Scholarly Reference	This book is useful for learners in that it sets out most of the forms of verbs, fully conjugated. However, the work is of doubtful scholarship. It contains many forms of Latin verbs that are unattested, and, moreover, no  indication is made of such instances. Therefore, students of Latin would  find this book useful, with the proviso that the Latin presented in the  book is not entirely historical, but it is next to useless for classicists.	2000-03-26
US	49815344	R36IL31NLRRHJV	0030556961	912922534	Elementary Linear Circuit Systems (HRW series in electrical and computer engineering)	Books	4	4	6	N	N	Solid but Uninspiring	This textbook is very much an introductory textbook on linear circuit analysis, i.e., analysis of electrical circuits that can be drawn on a plane without unconnected wires crossing. It presents all the necessary  basics of the subject with a straightforward, practical approach couch in  somewhat casual language.<br />A solid foundation in the topic is therefore  provided, with numerous examples to reinforce the concepts and provide  practice. However, apart from a more than usually well-constructed  approach, there this book has no outstanding feature that shows it to be  far superior to others of its ilk.<br />Physically, the book is not  inordinately think, nor is it poorly produced. In fact, although it has the  rather old-fashioned two-colour layout, the print is clear, and the book,  on the whole, is well made.<br />On the whole, then, whilst not a particularly  inspiring textbook, it nevertheless provides a good basis for the subject,  and has a lot going for it. As an introductory text, it is not particularly  interesting, but readily fulfils its aims in terms of teaching the subject  matter.	2000-03-26
US	49815344	R1MMP3CGWG1A7X	0521296536	694220016	Chinese (Cambridge Language Surveys)	Books	4	33	34	N	N	A Survey of Chinese with a Historical Perspective	There is a surprising lack of general books on the Chinese languages aimed at students and amateur linguists, and Norman's book fills this lacuna admirably. Although coverage is uneven in parts, this book presents a  survey of the language that is a tribute to the author's scholarship. More  importantly, lucid language maintains the reader's interest and the book is  a joy to read.<br />Many areas, including general typology, historical  phonology, the writing system, the classical language, the modern language  and dialectal variation, is covered to a greater or lesser extent, as are  certain sociolinguistic issues relevant to the language. In particular, the  historical linguistics and dialectology aspects of the language are well  explained, the section on Modern Chinese being somewhat weaker.<br />The book,  however, is not aimed at complete neophytes. A certain familiarity, albeit  slight, with the Chinese language and history is presupposed, and the  reader needs to be aware of, if not acquainted with, the basics of  historical and comparative linguistics. Nonetheless, it is far from being  an abstruse work understandable only by specialists in the field.<br />All in  all, Norman has done a marvellous job in condensing the vast field of  Chinese languages into a book of reasonable dimensions which is relatively  error free. It will no doubt become a valuable general reference on the  Chinese language.	2000-03-26
