US	49825333	R3JERD4Y90L610	0385509510	418900469	Under the Banner of Heaven: A Story of Violent Faith	Books	5	25	35	N	N	Beware the Reviews!	This is more a comment regarding the reviews that have been written of this book and not about the book itself...I already reviewed it and loved it.<br />I've noticed that someone (or multiple someones) love to click the &quot;not helpful&quot; button on these reviews, but ESPECIALLY those thoughtful reviews that discuss the important contributions of this book.  I have a lot of experience writing reviews for Amazon, and when I see these patterns, it generally means there are people who are motivated to discourage you from reading this book...and you should be asking yourself &quot;why?&quot;  <br />Second, I noticed several reviewers who cited a review by Religion Professor Terryl L. Givens, who paned the book in a review for the Boston Globe.  It should surprise no one that Mr. Givens is a Mormon, and has written his own apologia for the faith...perhaps it is not in the best interest of his own book sales if books such as Krakauer's sell well?  Another review by Naomi Schaefer published in the Wall Street Journal is also cited, and though I can't find information on her own religious persuasion, she also writes periodically for the Boston Globe, and I can't help but wonder if there's a connection here...but it could be merely coincidence.<br />My point is that there are people with an agenda who seem motivated to keep you from reading this book.  I say &quot;Damn the torpedos, full read ahead!&quot;	2004-06-10
US	49825333	R2QSGA72NGL4Z5	0609807986	395300413	The Jesus Mysteries: Was the "Original Jesus" a Pagan God?	Books	4	14	18	N	N	The Organic Jesus	This book helps validate in my mind the notion I've had for years that Christianity and the Jesus myths were &quot;organically&quot; evolved from earlier stories, interpreted in this case against the context of the emergent Jewish culture.  I'm no scholar, just an interested party, but the ideas explored in this book were for me a significant introduction to a whole paradigm well worth exploring.  <br />The gist of the book is simply that the story of Jesus is the same as the myths told by the ancients for thousands of years prior to the alleged appearance of Jesus.  Numerous cultures, including the Egyptians, the Persians, the Syrians, the Babyilonians, the Greeks, the Romans, and eventually the Jews all had fundamentally the same story, but made manifest in the unique cultural context of their own time and their own paradigms.  What was unique about the Jesus story was the claim that THIS God-man was an historical figure, transcending myth.  <br />They do an intriguing job of discussing the evolution of two camps of Christianity--the Literalists and the Gnostics--and demonstrating how the Literalists won the day when their philosophy and stories of Jesus were adopted by Constantine as the official religion of the Roman Empire.  And in winning, they got to write the official history and eradicate all competition!<br />What was one of the most important realizations for me was the recognition of how the obscure little region known as Palestine, little more than a footnote in the geographical and historical landscape of its day, could produce one of the most important and influential religions of all time.  If the thesis of this book is correct, it suddenly makes perfect sense!  The &quot;mysteries&quot; of the Jesus cult were very recognizable to the pagans of the entire Roman Empire, so when Constantine adopted it as his own (for expressly political versus spiritual reasons), the mysteries were easily incorporated into the fabric of Roman life...and therefore tookan obscure little religion from an insignificant corner of the world, and launched it on the world stage as the official religion of the most powerful empire on the planet.  <br />I don't doubt for a minute that there are numerous other ways of interpreting the data that the authors claim validates their theory.  I don't doubt that their conclusions are more or less a rehash of the debates that have raged for millenia, and fueled most especially by the discoveries made at Nag Hamadi and the Dead Sea.  What they HAVE done is provide this particular perspective in a very readible and accessible form, one that can be read by the layperson, and which no doubt sets them up for considerable criticism by those who are gonna HATE what they propose.  They propose nothing less than the idea that there was no historical Jesus...but they go on to describe how that could be a boon for civilization, not its end.<br />I highly recommend this book!	2004-01-26
US	49825333	REBQ3XKVZQ64A	0385509510	418900469	Under the Banner of Heaven: A Story of Violent Faith	Books	5	272	315	N	N	Not Anti-Mormon...just Intelligent	This is an extraordinary book, and I cannot recommend it highly enough.  Though the Mormon Church has expressed it's hostility toward the book, as with all ostriches, they are simply sticking their head in the sand and asking the rest of us to follow suit.  Thank goodness for people outside the Church who look in, and tell us what they see.<br />This is not an anti-mormon book, and the fact that Latter-day Saints and their leaders are so worked up about it seems to me to be a recognition that Krakauer is hitting pretty close to home.  Ironically, he handles the modern LDS church with kid gloves, and is very careful to make the distinction between the Mormon Fundamentalits and the Mormons themselves.  However, and this is the point that should be lost on no one, both churches hail from the same &quot;common ancestors,&quot; and have evolved rather organically from those early prophets, most importantly Joseph Smith, Brigham Young and John Taylor.  At the time of Wilford Woodruff the world saw a split, and those familiar with the paradigms of biological evolution will recognize exactly what was going on.  Today we see two radically different organizations with radically different messages...but they came from the same place.<br />Here's another juicy item that must drive the Church nuts.  The fundamentalists are perfectly justified in their position on polygamy, extreme patriarchy and racism.  After all, if those were the &quot;revealed word of God&quot; back in the early days of the church, then who are the modern day leaders to deny that word of God today?  Just because wicked governments :-) refuse to cooperate should be no reason to back away from the most important points of doctrine.  If it was good enough for Daniel to not back down (resulting in being cast into the lions den) then it should be good enough for modern prophets to not back down, either.  (Okay, it's pretty darn important for me to state that I'm simply pointing out the fundamentalist argument, not my own opinion...)<br />At the end of the book you are treated to the prosecution team's argument that religious thinking is NOT insane, even it is, on the face, irrational.  Any religious person should be moved, not disturbed, by the thoughtful arguments made by the prosecution's witnesses, many of whom were Mormon.<br />There are those who review this book who claim that the history is all wrong because it isn't always consistent with the &quot;faithful history&quot; that Elder Boyd K. Packer et al promote, and which is often the only history Mormons are familiar.  Krakauer has consumed a great deal of history, and has drawn some really important conclusions.  To throw out his book as &quot;inacurate&quot; because of a few minor disagreements on interpretation of facts would be like throwing out the quantum theory because we can't actually &quot;see&quot; a quark.  The viewer, or the reader, interprets what they see or read and comes to rational conclusions based on their assessment.  I want to read what other people DECIDE ON THEIR OWN after doing the research, not the same, tired old stories that have been approved and fed to the sheep year after year after year. I 've read a ton of Church history, and nothing that Krakauer said raised any red flags for me.  But if there is a mistake in his &quot;facts&quot; somewhere (and if it's there, it's tiny), then it is still immaterial.  The conclusions that the reader draws as they read how religious zeal CAN lead the faithful far, far astray is dead-on, pun intended.  <br />This is an excellent, excellent book, and no one, Mormon or otherwise, should be &quot;afraid&quot; to read it, or afraid to consider what the implications might be.	2003-09-25
US	49825333	R5KLWTSPD02TH	0671872346	970132728	COMPLEXITY: THE EMERGING SCIENCE AT THE EDGE OF ORDER AND CHAOS	Books	5	7	11	N	N	Easy to Read, Powerful To Ponder	Complexity is one of those rare science books that manages to teach the reader a great deal without boring them to tears.  Using the Santa Fe Institute and many of it's founding players as the backdrop for the story, Waldrop tells stories about people, while exploring their science.  The result is a book that is fun to read, and that makes you think at a deep, deep level.<br />The gist of complexity is the notion that nature really does explore, all by itself, the continously evolving boundary between order and chaos.  If you've ever explored the boundaries of fractal patterns, such as the Mandelbrot Set, you've seen a visual example of complexity at work.  When you're done, you realize that you have a better intuitive understanding of how the universe operates, how evolution works, and how societies organize themselves...all without having to solve a single mathematical equation!  I loved it!<br />This is one of those books that reshaped my world view, and it is one that I highly recommend to any reader, regardless of their scientific background.	2003-09-25
US	49825333	R1N9AZ94RD1NV2	0465006965	262036966	Religion Explained: The Evolutionary Origins of Religious Thought	Books	5	22	26	N	N	Powerful, Powerful Book	I'm no anthropologist, and subsequently I would have to re-read this book more than once to fully appreciate everything that Boyer is saying, but let me just say that this is a POWERFUL book.  It is a journey deep into the evolution of the human psyche, opening up for the reader many of the myriad of mental systems that have produced a mind with a PROPENSITY for religious thought.  Couple this book with the concepts of chaos, quantum physics, and evolution, and you quickly come to understand how religion has naturally, organically and unsurprisingly evolved from our strengths as human beings.  According to Boyer (though he doesn't say it...he only infers it, but CLEARLY so...) religious thought in humans is a strange attractor.  It happens with enough frequency because of the structure of our minds that it becomes somewhat predictable over time.  Predictable in the sense that people and groups of people will always develop some form or fashion of religious understanding, but unpredictable in the sense that you can't know WHAT form of religious thinking will evolve.  Witches?  Ancestors?  Talking Mountains?  Supreme Gods?  Ultimately, they are one and the same in terms of how they satisfy the brain, even though they seem so divergent and unrelated to us as individuals.<br />This is not an easy book to read...it's pretty academic, but it is not inaccesible to us non-anthropologists/psychologists, and the stuff that's in there is so compelling, and frankly so important, that I highly recommend this book.	2003-07-10
US	49825333	R1US621SBQJTVS	034544034X	920633675	Why God Won't Go Away: Brain Science and the Biology of Belief	Books	4	56	58	N	N	So Is It a Brain Thing or a Real Thing?	I must admit that I'm very torn as to how to review this book.  On the one hand, I thoroughly enjoyed the first 80% of it.  It was new information for me, it was insightful, it was affirming, and I was devouring it.  Then I came to this transition point, where the authors make the leap from neuroscience to philosophy, and suddenly my notes in the margins kept getting more and more critical.  So here's what I think I'll say about it...<br />First, I enjoyed enormously the discussion on the biological brain functioning, and the conclusions that they derive in the first few chapters.  The best way to summarize that particular discussion is as follows.  Your brain is designed to keep you alive.  As it developed particularly unique and complex abilities, most notably the ability for causal analysis, it discovered that there is one thing that the brain cannot do with regard to our surival...it cannot ultimately prevent our death.  Since the limbic system creates an \\"anxiety response\\" to physical threats, the brain must create a response to quiet the anxiety produced by this existential discovery.  If it is a normal stimulus, the brain knows how to tell the self to flee or fight.  But with the ultimate death, there is no such possible response.  So the brain invents answers, including God, life after death, etc. to quell the anxiety, and the neurology of the brain creates such powerful physiological response that we \\"feel\\" we have come to \\"true\\" conclusions.<br />I liked that part.  But then they make some major leaps and begin to describe a concept that they call \\"Absolute Unitary Being,\\" about which I never did get a clear idea of what they mean.  On the one hand, it sounds like they are simply describing a \\"ground-state\\" of reality, from which all our neurological perceptions arise.  I'm okay with that.  But then they go further and posit the notion that this Absolute Unitary Being is a higher plane of reality, more real than ordinary reality, and may be identified as \\"God.\\"  For me, things just ground to a halt, both because I philosophically disagree (which is okay), and because I felt like they never did establish a firm linkage between the science and the philosophy.  Maybe I'm too dense to get it, but it just seemed to fall apart at that point.<br />That said, I still think this is a book well worth reading.  It's short, so it won't take you long to get some good stuff out of it.  And maybe you'll get more out of their leaps into philosophy than I did.	2003-03-19
US	49825333	R183U6E1KJ4TIL	0787902667	683412107	Cults in Our Midst	Books	4	29	34	N	N	The Cult Spectrum Revealed	I'm not an expert on cults.  I've never (to my knowledge) participated in one.  I have made a study, however, of human belief, and what I found in this book was fascinating and illuminating.  I must confess that what I got the most out of it was not what Singer was writing, but what I found between the lines.  There is clearly a continuum of cultic thought, technique, and behavior, and all groups and institutions fall somewhere along that continuum.  Singer deals almost exclusively with those groups that land way out on one extreme, but when she discusses Large Group Awareness Trainings (LGAT) she eludes to this continuum.  Where she falls short, I believe, is in recognizing (or discussing) that probably all religious belief falls rather far along this continuum, and no doubt had its roots way to the extreme.  I would expect that it could be argued that Moses, Jesus, Mohammed, Buddha, Joseph Smith, Zoroaster etc. etc. etc. and the movements they began could all be evaluated against the criteria of a cult and found to exhibit most if not all the designating factors.  They move away from the end of the spectrum where the hard-core cults are found when they mainstream and become more popular...it's simply too difficult to control that many people and that many variables.  Religions have made a choice...sacrifice control for size, power and influence.  Cults have not yet made that choice, prefering instead to retain the control and live with the limited power and influence that an individual cultic figure can muster.  <br />The information found in this book is very valuable in helping each of us assess our own vulnerabilities to charismatic and interesting people and causes.  That should not frighten us away from striving for those experiences, only warning us to approach with caution, with our eyes wide open and our radar screens well lit!	2003-03-13
US	49825333	R25N69NZ47WYLH	1560851767	595749882	The Mysteries of Godliness: A History of Mormon Temple Worship	Books	4	39	60	N	N	Excellent Historical Perspective	This is a great historical look at the evolution of temple worship in the Mormon church, beginning with the charismatic, possibly wine-induced spiritual free-for-all of the Kirtland ceremony to the very carefully scripted, sanctimonious modern temple experience.  Throughout the book, the reader watches as the men in charge change and evolve the temple ceremony, including some of it's most sacred ordinations.  <br />There are some areas that I think beg for more illumination.  While considerable time is dedicated to the second anointing or second endowment, still I felt Buerger could have gone further in discussing WHY Heber J. Grant so sharply curtailed those ordinances.  I also felt he could have explored in greater detail the parallels between the temple ceremony and Free Masonry.  And lastly, I would like to have seen some indepth discussion of the loss of the temple adoption ordinance.<br />That aside, the view you get of the temple ceremony is that of an evolving work in progress, that bends and shapes either to the divine will or the whims of the men in power...you decide which.	2003-02-28
US	49825333	R3V19MYW44E7YS	1931412758	270456905	The Hiram Key: Pharaohs, Freemasons and the Discovery of the Secret Scrolls of Jesus	Books	3	12	15	N	N	Read for Ideas, not for Facts	I confess, I enjoyed reading this book, but because I truly appreciate someone who is willing to throw all the rules out and strike out on their own.  Sometimes, these noble explorers stumble upon previously unknown secrets and truths...but more often than not, they perish for lack of support.  The fate of these two authors is yet unknown, as the book was written BEFORE they were able to accomplish the one thing, the ONLY thing that might have brought anything resembling credibility to the more outlandish claims; namely exploring the supposed vaults below Rosslyn Chapel in Scotland.  It does cause the reader to question the motives of the writers when the capstone of their work must wait until the profits are made from the sale of their book...because there ain't no book if there ain't no scrolls under Rosslyn!<br />That said, (*whew*, I feel better), there are some interesting things in this book.  IF they are right, then they have done a great service to the field of biblical scholarship.  More likely, they are headed in the right direction, but coming to the wrong conclusions.  Was Jesus a FreeMason?  Come on.  But was he something other than what either the Christian world or the academic world would have him be?  Quite possibly.  Sometimes it takes someone asking the naive and even stupid questions to force the rest of us out of our comfortable little paradigms and start to ask different questions, and even expecting different answers.  To my way of thinking, that's what this book is good for, and that's all.  It forces us to question our assumptions, and offers a &quot;reasonable,&quot; if far-fetched alternative.  I don't think you will find the roots of Freemasonry or Christianity in here, but you might find something that forces you to reconsider what you currently think you know.  In my mind, that's good!<br />I echo the thoughts of others who have left their mark on these reviews...Knight and Lomas are WAY too quick to make quantum leaps in their understanding of their research.  To me, it was like a couple of boys looking into the night sky and finding a few, bright stars scattered randomly throughout the heavens.  With a vision for what &quot;could&quot; be, they worked with those stars until they could connect the dots into a constellation that works for them.  But just because you &quot;can&quot; infer a relationship between two seemingly unrelated &quot;stars&quot; does not mean they are, in fact, related.  The constellation they have drawn in the heavens is theirs.  As long as you realize that, you might just enjoy the book!	2003-02-12
US	49825333	R3G2KS0X2HLS3U	0345418824	95116868	The Harlot by the Side of the Road: Forbidden Tales of the Bible	Books	4	13	15	N	N	Surprisingly Insightful	This is a book I thoroughly enjoyed.  I bought it because it seemed a little more \\"entertaining\\" than most books that take a hard look at the Bible, but I was caught off guard by the degree of insight contained within.  Not only does Kirsch artfully present six of the \\"forbidden\\" stories in such a way that they come alive, but he also offers a good deal of background to help you understand the cultural significance of the stories, as well as some insight into what they say about the whole Bible.  <br />The stories are not going to be unfamiliar to anyone who has really read the Old Testament.  It's not like these stories are hidden and can only be found \\"between the lines.\\"  They are just stories that seem so preposterous, so dissonent with the message you hear in Sunday School or from the pulpit that rather than look at them, we ignore them.  Kirsch makes the argument that not only is that denial not necessary, it's even harmful to our understanding!  These stories underscore the humanity of the characters and the writers of the Bible, making it far more rich and interesting than the few sterile verses that constitute the average person's understanding of the bible.<br />The stories he relates in literary form include the tale of Lot's daughters, the rape of Jacob's daughter Dinah, the story of Judah and his daughter-in-law Tamar, how Moses' wife Zipporah saved him from being killed by God, the gang-rape and murder of a Levite's concubine, and the rape of David's daughter Tamar.  Coupled with these principal stories is a smattering of other tidbits, including the story of Jacob wrestling with God (and defeating Him!) and the lusty excesses of King David and his sons.  You won't believe what you read, and you won't want to put it down!  <br />While I highly recommend this book, I only rate it four stars because there seems to be *some* unwillingness to admit the degree to which the stories he relates are radically sexist, and their interpretations as well as their implications stem from a horribily sexist, misguided culture, one which may contribute to the perpetuation of such nonsense to this day.  Kirsch is a little too forgiving for my blood, and thus only 4 stars.  Otherwise, I have no complaints and will recommend this book frequently.	2002-12-13
US	49825333	R3DOWYGLF0IFFU	0679722327	541403885	Adam, Eve, and the Serpent: Sex and Politics in Early Christianity	Books	5	113	117	N	N	Paradise Revisited	Anyone even remotely familiar with Western civilization knows the story of the Garden of Eden.  What we often don't know is how profoundly that story has influenced society for the past few thousand years.  Elaine Pagels does a wonderul job of describing the evolution of some of our most basic social values, such as the inherent value of each soul, freedom of choice, and the sinful nature of sexual desire, all stemming from the early Christian \\"Church Fathers'\\" interpretation of the Garden story.  What did God mean that \\"man (and woman) was created in the image of God?\\"  What was the meaning of the forbidden fruit?  And how has that influenced the politics of today?  All of these and more are addressed between the covers of this book.<br />One of the signature's of Pagels writing is the in-depth exploration of the writings and debates of the early Christian thinkers who, by the fifth century, largely shaped Christianity into the paradigm we know today.  Augustine in particular gets a great deal of ink in this book, as well as Julian (the heretic from Italy), John Chrysostom, Clement and others.  In particular, the last two chapters on the Politics of Paradise and the Nature of Nature strongly portray the power of Augustine's philosophy, and Pagels analysis of the psychic attraction to Augustine's paradoxical philosophy regarding \\"will\\" is exceptional.  I also very much enjoyed her description of the evolution of Christian thinking from one of ultimate free will (so powerful that it resulted in thousands of Christian martyrs in the second and third century), to one of the inherent wickedness of humans by virtue of the original sin, resulting in the need for punitive and controling church and civic governments to rule over all people.  The result was the power of the Catholic Church for 1600 years, not to mention the horror of the Dark Ages of christianity.<br />Elaine Pagels is a delight to read, and ranks up there with Karen Armstrong as a commentator and analyst ofthe evolution of religion.  This is a great little book!	2002-12-03
US	49825333	R353ZZ3MY6J5AQ	0679731180	799831883	The Origin of Satan: How Christians Demonized Jews, Pagans, and Heretics	Books	5	366	382	N	N	Cosmic Warfare Between Good and Evil	Elaine Pagels is an exceptional author and skilled interpreter of Christian history.  The \\"Origin of Satan\\" is an excellent book for laypeople trying to understand the evolution of one piece of the Christian paradigm, namely the cosmic battle between good and evil, and the vilification of the Jews in the  gospels.  <br />The book is organized in three principal sections.  The first part dissects the four gospels in the order they were written, and delineates the relationships between the authors, their social context, and their thinking with regard to Satan and all things/people evil.  Among the most helpful recognitions in this part of the book is that as the gospels evolved, Pilate and the Romans grew more and more \\"innocent\\" (the Christians were trying to make a distinction between themselves and the troublesome dissidents of Palestine), and the Jews grew more and more \\"responsible\\" for Jesus' crucifixion, thus \\"under the influence of Satan.\\"  Much of this awareness is found in the recognition that Jews in the Roman Empire were torn between the social elite who were for the most part the priesthood and the wealthy, and the poor fundamentalists who saw the privileges of the empire in opposition to the covenants with God.<br />The second section of the book describes the growing rift between the pagans of the Roman empire and the growing Christian sect.  What is most helpful in this section is comparing the writings of such pagan minds as Celsus and Marcus Arelius with the early writings of Justin, Origen and others.  In the Roman Empire, there was no greater virtue than that of \\"citizenship\\" in the empire, and the strength of the empire was assured by performing the ritual obligations to the Gods.  The Christians saw themselves not as citizens of Rome, but of Heaven, and their rituals ran counter to those of the Pagans.  Naturally, this was threatening to the pagan majority, and resulted in the wholesale slaughter of Christians who wouldn't cede to the authority of the Roman pantheon.  Satan, of course, was identified with the pagans.<br />The last section of the book discusses the growing dissent within the early church itself, and the identification of Satan with heretics from within.  For me persoanally this was the most engaging part of the book, as it was SO telling in terms of the evolution of the control paradigm so apparent in Western religion to this day.  Reading the writings of Tertullian in particular, compared with the gnostic writers of the same time period, is incredibly enlightening!<br />In spite of the title, this book is in no way \\"dark.\\"  In fact, it shines light in so many dank dark corners of our history that it is truly a bright spot on my bookshelf and in my mind.  This is a \\"Highly Recommend\\" book!	2002-11-18
US	49825333	R2Z4IHDNSUBD20	0060616334	33228453	Excavating Jesus: Beneath the Stones, Behind the Texts	Books	3	15	17	N	N	Digging Through the Dry Dust	There is much to be learned in this book, but my complaint is really about how it's written...a tad on the dry side.  In fact, some of the writing was so cumbersome (do they make up words?) that I had to re-read entire paragraphs two or three times to figure out what they were trying to communicate.<br />So it's a little dry.  However, there is some really good stuff if you &quot;excavate.&quot;  The book takes its thesis from the premis that in order to really understand who Jesus was, you have to uncover his life and world one layer at a time.  They peel back the layers of archeology and ancient writing to try to reveal who Jesus might have been, and many of their conclusions are useful, though probably not earth-shaking.  When you understand the context of his life, you understand better what the &quot;Kingdom of God&quot; movement was really about, i.e. a direct asault on the authority of the Kingdom of Rome, and very likely the reason he was executed.  <br />I especially enjoyed the archeology, as I felt it was the more clearly elucidated portion of the book.  They reconstruct Nazareth, many of the principle cities of Galilee, and Jerusalem, most notably the temple mount, and explain their significance to understanding the movements of Jesus and John the Babtist in that context.  There are photos and reconstructions throughout the book which are very useful tools for the reader in seeing what the authors are talking about.<br />Add this to the growing library of books that suggest that Jesus is not the man we have grown up to believe in, but he was clearly of significance, and well worth the effort to get to know.	2002-11-04
US	49825333	R8ZU8UVHOFQ7H	0440219078	55490378	The Giver (21st Century Reference)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Message Received	This little book is titled \\"The Giver,\\" but the message is easily received.  It is written for young readers, but the message is timely for most adults as well.  Recognizing that this book has a young audience in mind, it is not surprising that the \\"message\\" is somewhat in your face.  You don't have to take a college course in philosophy to figure out what Lois Lowry is trying to say.  But that doesn't mean there isn't plenty to think about...there is!  In the perfect little world of sameness that the story takes place, the ideas of knowledge, history, personal choice, diversity, death (and others) are considered bad and not useful for a successful society.  The result seems, on the surface, to work just fine, but you discover that their denial is so great that they don't even see the deepest, darkest secrets of their own existence.  They can't!  Not because they're blind, not because they're brain damaged, but because their paradigms are so carefully shaped for them that they don't even know to ask certain questions.  Only one member of the community at a time has any knowledge of the dark side of their collective experience, the Receiver of Memories.  <br />As engaging as the story is, it is also timely.  Looking at my religious tradition, I can see elements of this story all over it.  Looking at other fundamentalist movements, I see the same thing.  Everywhere you look you see movements to reduce our personal choices and freedom, denying and re-shaping history to fit our wants rather reflecting reality.  It's all packaged by those who claim special or even divine knowledge that they \\"know what is best for us, even though we, ourselves, cannot see it.\\"  Like sheep we follow, and that following results in such tragedies as the Mountain Meadows Massacre in our own western history, the Jonestown massacres, the Branch Dividians, and most recently the spate of Islamic terrorism that spans the globe.  Each act is perpetrated by well-meaning followers who have sacrificedtheir personal freedoms, their personal choice, their personal knowledge, their personal awareness for good of the society, only to find that sacrifice of self equals sacrifice of society.  <br />This is a great little book, and one well worth the three hours it takes to read (though the premis is nothing new...it borrows shamelessly from other Utopian themes, such as B.F. Skinner's \\"Walden Two\\").  My copy is a \\"Readers Circle\\" copy, with discussion questions included.  I strongly recomend reading this book with a group of others and discussing it together.  The message will be that much more profound!	2002-11-04
US	49825333	R2K41PFT6HGLNP	0806134267	500998168	Blood of the Prophets: Brigham Young and the Massacre at Mountain Meadows	Books	5	41	60	N	N	The Story That Won't Die	Juanita Brooks said it first: \\"Nothing but the truth can be good enough for the Church to which I belong.\\"  Will Bagley says it better: \\"Church leaders might wish until the end of time that the [Mountain Meadows Massacre] matter could be forgotten, but history bears witness that only the truth will lay to rest the ghosts of Mountain Meadows.\\"  Bagley, following the tradition of Brooks, has done a yeoman's job in compiling the most complete story of the tragedy of September 11, 1857 to date.  And yet, without the Mormon Church accepting responsibility for the role of Brigham Young ... and George A. Smith, the doctrines of blood and vengence begun with Joseph Smith, Jr., and the obedience required under the threat of blood atonement by local church leaders, the story will continue to haunt the lives of Mormons living in southern Utah, and will continue to come up again and again in the work and thinking of thoughtful historians, both in and out of the Church.  The only way to give rest to the ghosts of Mountain Meadows is to face the truth.  And that the Church has not done.  <br />Bagley is convinced that Brigham Young was more than an accessory after the fact (Brook's official, published opinion), and was in fact partly or wholly responsible for initiating the crime.  Unfortunately for Bagley and the rest of history, the so-called \\"smoking gun\\" has yet to turn up.  To date, no letter signed by Brigham ordering the destruction of the Fancher train has been discovered ... He draws this conclusion from a scanty array of circumstantial evidence, including a vague reference in Dimick Huntington's diary in which he alleges Brigham authorized the southern Paiutes to help themselves to the emigrant's livestock.  This \\"proves\\" nothing, but it adds to the perception that Young MAY have known, and MAY have ordered or approved of the attack on the train.  <br />If you are looking for verification that the Church's highest leaders can be implicated in this tragic affair, it ain't here.  But SO MUCH else is here that the reader feels reasonably confident filling in the gaps on their own, or, in the words of John D. Lee, \\"putting the saddle on the right horse.\\"  <br />Bagley does a wonderful job in creating the context, both for the Fancher train and the Mormons at the time of the massacre.  The reader gains great insight into the power of the prophecy that the Lamanites (Native Americans) would cast off their \\"curse\\" and unite with the saints in ushering in the millenium.  Thus the Indians were seen as \\"the battle axe of the Lord,\\" held firmly in the hand of...Brigham Young, Indian Agent for the Territory of Utah.  Bagley also paints the picture of the unquestioned obedience required of the saints to...Brigham Young, and his strict belief in the need for \\"blood atonement\\" for certain sins, including apostacy, adultery, and no doubt spilling the blood the prophets and apostles, such as Parley Pratt.  Pratt, beloved apsostle of the early church was killed by the jealous husband of one of Pratt's wives (yes, you read that right...she was married to two men at the same time, and not the only woman in the church to be polyandrous...) in Arkansas, the home state of the Fancher party.  And you are also treated to witness the manipulation of the legal system in Utah to impede, distort, and generally disrupt the prosecution of the men on the field at Mountain Meadows by none other than...Brigham Young. ...  But as Bagley points out, for the Church to concede that Brigham or George A. Smith, or other high-ranking \\"Prophets or Apostles\\" had any involvement what-so-ever, it must risk shaking the faith of many of it's members who believe these men walk and talk with God daily, and take their orders from him. ...history is seldom written so well!	2002-10-17
US	49825333	R3R2AMPE50PIQG	0870527541	319570483	The Birth of Christianity: Reality and Myth	Books	4	26	31	N	N	The Darwinian Approach to Christianity	Joel Carmichael presents a most compelling argument for the evolution of the Christian paradigm from Jesus being one of many &quot;End of the World&quot; zealot agitators, to becoming the Son of God, to becoming &quot;Lord.&quot;  He paints an historical picture of Palestine (and the rest of the Roman empire) during the period immediately preceeding the life of Jesus until a century afterward that changes the way most of us will think of that place and time again.  Furthermore, he helps explain the critical role of Paul and the pagan &quot;gentiles&quot; (with their own mythology) in creating the mystery of Jesus out of the Man Jesus.  Students of systems, complexity theory and chaos theory will recognize the forces at play in the evolving nature of Jesus, an evolution that continues to the present day.  Just like the study of paleontology, however, it is impossible to understand the systems we witness today without a thorough understanding of the context in which they evolved.  This book attempts (rather well) to do just that.  There are many devout Christians who decry the need for understanding the context because they believe the scriptures to be perfect as they are, preserved by the very hand of God.  Yet to study their context causes you to see immediately the flaw in that line of reasoning.  Carmichael helps us see the scriptures from the point of view in which they were written, not from a 21st century point of view, and the difference is not insignificant!  It is kind of a shame that the modern-day zealots are not likely to either read such a book, or appreciate its merits...it might make a difference in our world if they did...	2002-10-01
US	49825333	R27AB58GNUHVMZ	0553344862	967728864	The River Why	Books	5	21	23	N	N	The River Because	This book is beautiful, simple, funny, and deep like a dark, swirling undercut bank of a good trout stream, in which secrets lurk, and wonder is promised on the very next cast. This is only fiction because the characters themselves are the creation of the author's imagination...yet in reality they are an amalgamation of all of us, each one having a purely human experience.  Fishing is a metaphore in this book, not what the book is about, though folks who do fish, especially those who study the stream and just \\"know\\" where the fish will be will find a special appreciation for this book. It is philosophy told in the context of a story, like \\"Ishmael\\" by Daniel Quinn, or Richard Bach's \\"Jonathan Livingston Seagull,\\" or as has been mentioned many times, Robert Pirsig's \\"Zen and the Art of Motorcycle Maintenance.\\"  <br />I am certain that The River Why would be read and understood 60 different ways by any 50 people who read it.  For me, it was a compelling journey of a young man, trying to navigate the waters of understanding between what is true, what is not, and finding that those two extremes don't exist.  Old ways of seeing the world didn't work when he was confronted with real life \\"stuff,\\" like death, love, time, and the creatures with whom we share this little wet planet. Over the course of a year on one of any Coast Range rivers of western Oregon, he discovered the \\"middle path,\\" a path that made sense to him, brought him peace, brought him understanding, and ultimately brought him love, reunion with his family, and a sense of his place in the universe.<br />This is a book for those who are drawn to nature and native wisdom as doorways to spiritual insight.  It is a book I will give away as gifts to special people whom I believe it could touch as it touched me.  Spend 15 minutes with it, and you, too will be \\"hooked!\\"	2002-08-22
US	49825333	R2ZZEZLLCJ2F56	1560851171	511838839	The Lord's University: Freedom and Authority at Byu	Books	4	10	14	N	N	Culture in the Making	This is a very interesting book, with great insight into the making of contemporary Mormon culture.  Of particular interest is the influence of Earnest Wilkinson during th 60s and early 70s (and later Presidents) in creating much of what we think of when think of modern BYU, such as &quot;anti-feminism,&quot; the standards and honor code, air-brushing out things that &quot;we just don't like,&quot; etc.  When you consider the preponderance of BYU graduates out there in the world of the LDS church serving in leadership capacities, it is clear that BYU shapes the church.  <br />This book deals with several controversial issues, is probably a little one-sided, but overall a very interesting read.  I recommend it highly!	2002-08-22
US	49825333	R3FI1HL5F3PPSG	1560850493	392058941	The Sanctity of Dissent	Books	4	19	25	N	N	Dissent as a Sacred Obligation	Toscano makes a good case for the sacred nature of dissent, and he is qualified to say something about it...his dissent cost him his membership in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints.  Many is the member of that Church and countless others whose own spiritual experience and insight differs from that of the accepted dogma, or worse, the acknowledged leadership.  Should they keep their mouths faithfully shut, or do they have a sacred obligation to disagree?  The principles of synergy and diversity are aligned with Toscano's position, though one has to be prepared for the inevitable fire-storm of criticism that will come from those faithful who disagree with you!<br />In this period of fanaticism and fundamentalism (Christian, Muslim, Jewish, doesn't matter...) Toscano's message is timely.  Failing to dissent is often giving way to much deference, and ultimately power, to a handful of men (they are almost ALWAYS men...) who are notoriously irresponsible with that much power.  His arguments are convincing, his insight often piercing, and his motive *appears* to be wholesome.  This is a book that can be enjoyed by readers of many faiths, not just Mormons, as his argument is broadly applicable.  As I write this, the Catholic Church is being rocked by the scandal of priests engaging in sexual molestation of young boys.  If dissenters of the Catholic Church had not been burned at the stake historically, perhaps we might never have gotten here.  If the Taliban had been willing to listen to alternate opinions, perhaps Afghanistan would not be the war-ravaged nation that it is.  And if the Mormon church were tolerant of diologue and introspection, perhaps its brightest minds wouldn't being leaving the fold, either voluntarily, or in Toscano's case, involuntarily.	2002-05-08
US	49825333	R3NF1DOGTX0BW	0743420373	826470409	The Millionaire Next Door	Books	3	2	4	N	N	Interesting, But Too Long	There are some helpful bits of information in this book, not the least of which is the recognition that the vast majority of America's wealthy are not featured on &quot;Lives of the Rich and Famous.&quot;  Most of the wealthy are actually fairly common folk with a propensity to be frugal and invest.  This is helpful information for the rest of us who have always believed that to have a great deal of money, you either had to be very lucky, inherit a windfall, or have a really high paying career.  Turns out that's not necessarily the case.  This book does a good job of helping to dispell some of the myths, such as &quot;high income earners are the most wealthy.&quot;  This book points out that high income earners are also prodigious spenders, and often their net worth is well below what it ought to be!<br />The down side to this book is that it repeats itself a great deal.  You learn over and over again about the spoiled children of the wealthy, and their reliance on &quot;Outpatient Economic Care.&quot;  You learn over and over again about the fact that roughly 2/3 of the wealthy are private business owners.  It is also a little data intensive, which might have been useful for the authors in writing the book, but really is somewhat extraneous for the rest of us.<br />This is good perspective building material, but be prepared for the redundancy.	2002-04-05
US	49825333	RX24JX1MA7OBY	0446677450	156348512	Rich Dad, Poor Dad: What the Rich Teach Their Kids About Money--That the Poor and Middle Class Do Not!	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Paradigm for Shift For Us Money Morons	Millions of us are money morons.  We make good money and spend it as quickly as we get it.  What Robert Kiyosaki has done has written an easy to read, easy to visualize book for those of us who are struggling.  If you have already got a good handle on your money, this book probably won't be that valuable.  But it's written for the rest of us who need to shift our thinking from one of buying liabilities to one of buying assets.  There are some powerful concepts for the average person in this book that can assist us in shifting out of self-defeating money management mindsets.  True, he makes it sound ridiculously easy (and perhaps for him, it has been).  For me, he makes it seem possible, and if that's what it takes to inspire me to get a grasp on my finances and to begin to accumulate wealth-building assets, then it was the best [money] I ever spent.  What this is NOT is a \\"get rich quick\\" book.  He makes it very clear that he spent years gaining a financial education (and continues to learn).  His message to me is that if I want to build wealth, I have to stop the old thinking, get some education, talk to experts, gather some courage, and start.  And I will.	2002-03-25
US	49825333	R3W4KYJNY1DPKZ	015696158X	139645488	When God Was a Woman	Books	4	71	75	N	N	Not Your Father's God!	Ms. Stone's book continues to be printed, bought and read because she has done a marvelous job bringing together archeological discovery with religious insight, creating a picture of the evolution of God that turns Monotheism on its ear.  She suggests that when human beings first began to acknowledge a higher, creative power, that they recognized that power as belonging to the female principle.  The first part of the book dedicates itself to the sketchy, distant archaic world that initiated the worship of the Goddess.  In time, however, the male principle pushed aside and eventually crushed the worship of the female divinity, and replaced it with a Father God who was responsible for all creation.  Now the Male Principle is perceived as the ultimate creative force in the universe, somewhat of an obvious paradox, but one we have bought into for thousands of years.  With the tools she develops through an understanding of the rise of Male dominion, she takes a fresh look at the story of Adam and Eve, and comes to some startling conclusions.  Could the story have in fact been a carefully contrived myth with little more than a political agenda?  Read it and find out.<br />The book is a little tedious at the start, as Ms. Stone spends considerable time laying the groundwork.  In the first 50-60 pages you'll find yourself saying, &quot;All right!  I got it!&quot;  Then it picks up from there, and the conclusions are well worth the tedium at first (however, that's why I give it only 4 stars).	2002-03-11
US	49825333	R2LUKQITEEU7WI	0387987010	293584016	Rare Earth: Why Complex Life is Uncommon in the Universe	Books	4	12	17	N	N	Paradigm Problems	This is a good book that I will recommend to friends, particularly those who are seeking to better understand their relationship to the universe, yet lack much in the way of scientific background.  This book does a great job of describing some basic theory regarding the coalescence of our planet, the structure of our solar system, and the processes involved in evolving the higher life forms we are familiar with.  The authors are very readable to a lay audience, though they do tend to be redundant.<br />I am troubled, however, by what appears to be a paradigm problem.  The authors spend a great deal of time describing the unique set of circumstances that Earth affords, resulting in the complex array of life forms we observe about us and in the fossil record.  The troubling part, however, comes in the manner in which they approach the subject, and is most tellingly observed in their expanded use of the Drake formula near the end of the book, used to roughly quantifiy the probability that we might find intelligent life out there somewhere else in the universe.  The problem is, we are looking backwards and saying, &quot;If this didn't happen, and that didn't happen, and this didn't happen, then we would never have gotten to what we see today.&quot;  This is really the only tool we have, but the problem lies in the fact that we CAN NOT say, &quot;Had these things not happened, where WOULD we be?&quot;  You can never know the multitude of unrealized possibilities when talking about your own experience, but we also cannot lose sight of those when we are talking about an infinitely complex &quot;other&quot; reality that is out there.  All we know is that life &quot;as we know it&quot; was a co-creative process that evolved right along with all the factors that appear to have influenced it, such as the presence of the Moon and Jupiter, plate tectonics, and how fortunate we are that the K/T asteroid wasn't twice the size that it was.  But if life was evolving along with environmental conditions and changes, and had a DIFFERENT set of conditions existed, might not a different outcome that is just as plausible been the result?  Life as we know it is still interacting, moment by moment, with it's environment, and the slowly changing conditions of our solar system, and it is likely to continue to respond...sometimes in ways that cannot be predicted.  The deterministic approach of the Rare Earth Hypothesis seems to be locked into the paradigm that life as we know it is the only realistically achievable life.  But is that indeed realistic?  Perhaps we are rare...in fact, I would surmise that we are.  Perhaps, though, there are (in the words of Carl Sagan), &quot;billions and billions&quot; of rare, unique, life supporting planets functioning and evolving according to paradigms we can not yet even conceive of.  Just because we don't know HOW to see it does not meen it isn't there.  We may not know what to look for, yet! <br />Remember, for a few hundred years, the physics of Newton was unapproachable, and unquestionably &quot;the&quot; way the universe operated.  With a shift in paradigm, we got relativity and quantum mechanics, and now Newton's physics, while still very useful, is in many regards, just quaint.  Are we doing the same thing with the Rare Earth?<br />It's a good book, and will stimulate considerable thought!	2002-02-07
US	49825333	R3K2SL3Z4BBDH4	0826327885	101916304	Mormonism Unveiled: The Life and Confession of John D. Lee, Including the Life of Brigham Young	Books	4	75	85	N	N	So What REALLY Is the Truth?	This book is an enigma.  It is classic period writing, with a marvelous flavor for the \\"spirit\\" of Utah during its formative years, as well as the obvious disdain the \\"gentiles\\" felt for Brigham Young and his Mormon adherants.  But it so clearly has an axe to grind that it's difficult to really know what's true and what's fiction.  Do we believe John D. Lee?  Do we believe the witnesses at the trial?  Those outside the church in those days loved what Lee had to say in condemnation of the church that sacrificed him, and in publishing this in the manner they did, it is not unlikely that they were happy to leave unquestioned any of Lee's motives.  On the other hand, the fact that the Church is so reluctant to have Lee's journals in the hands of the public is an indication that he really DID have some things to say that would cast a dark shadow over the church, and especially the teachings and tactics of its highest leaders. (It is interesting to note that the John D. Lee journals were recently made public as a part of the Leonard Arrington collection at Utah State University, and the church made a concerted effort to recover them, which effort they lost!)  <br />There is an obvious tension that exists in this book... Lee paints himself as the single most noble, humble and honest man that ever walked the face of the earth, while Brigham Young was the grossest, most lascivious monster that ever shared the same planet with Lee.  Of course, the truth lies somewhere in the middle, and you won't find that middle in this book.  However, that's okay.  The whole point of reading this book ought to be for \\"perspective,\\" not for anti-Mormon propaganda.  And this is GREAT perspective!  Provided that you realize who published this book, namely Lee's defense attorney, and can read this for its \\"feel\\" rather than its \\"facts,\\" then this is most worthwhile.  If you get hung up on the \\"facts,\\" you lose some of the perspective, because remember, this only tells one side of the story, andthat from a man condemmed to die for one of the West's most infamous crimes.  Nevertheless, this is a real eye-opener, and though I've read considerable church history, there were still things I learned in this book.  It is a worthwhile addition to the library of anyone interested in the history of the west, and especially as that history pertains to the Mormons.	2002-01-31
US	49825333	RMHNJMRV57O1G	1560851236	845489491	An Abundant Life: The Memoirs of Hugh B. Brown	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Soul of a Truly Humble Man	An Abundant Life is both a pleasent, nostalgic read, and a profoundly insightful book.  The life of Hugh B. Brown is one of remarkable faith and dedication, not to mention sacrifice, to the Church to which he belonged.  But it was the mind and spirit of the man that drew people to him, and that spirit would be welcome in today's church.  The final chapter of the Memoirs, entitled &quot;A Final Testimony&quot; is a most beautiful statement regarding the importance of individual members using the power of their minds in discerning truth for themselves, rather than relying on the words of their leaders.  Further, his was a mission of compassion, not personal agrandizement.  He measured the merits of both his politics and his religion on how well they treated the poor.  If all members of the church thought as he did, there indeed would be room for everyone...	2002-01-22
US	49825333	R1UR2ATKNPC7HL	0740721909	954766786	God's Debris: A Thought Experiment	Books	4	15	16	N	N	A Fine Little Experiment	The evidence for the success of Scott Adam's &quot;Thought Experiment&quot; is the 50+ reviews posted below, ranging from &quot;love it&quot; to &quot;hated it.&quot;  The success of the experiment is nothing more than it got people thinking.  Those who are disturbed by the fact that they disagree with the conclusions of the book (most notably, are we really God's Debris, not unlike the Kabbalistic notion of the divine sparks in all of us...) are actually missing the point.  Scott Adam's makes no claim regarding the factual accuracy of his little tome.  In fact, to do so would violate one of its central tenets, namely that what we observe is nothing but illusions.  Those who are scientists who complain that his science is bad, or philosphers who claim that his philosophy is bad, or spiritualists who claim that his views of God are bad, point exactly to the failure of most of us to recognize that what we think is reality is in fact absurdly simplified paradigms that may or may not actually resemble reality.  If this book does nothing more than encourage the reader to ask questions and think openly, then it is indeed successful.  I rate it 4 stars only because the dialogue seemed a little forced.  I appreciated the use of the two person interaction as the vehicle for communicating the ideas, but I didn't feel it was as effective as it could have been.  But the &quot;thought experiment&quot; is wonderful.  <br />If you are pretty sure that your view of the world, the universe, God and your place in relation to all of that is the only right view, then don't even touch this book.  You will hate it.  On the other hand, if you enjoy having your perspectives and paradigms poked and prodded periodically, stretched, kicked and rolled around on the ground, then you will in all likelihood find this book as fun and as interesting to read as I did.	2002-01-18
US	49825333	RVFCTQ00CONGW	0345391691	920269539	The Battle for God	Books	5	8	13	N	N	Timely, Sweeping and Powerful!	I admit...I'm an Armstrong fan.  Her grasp of the monotheistic traditions is comprehensive, sensitive, insightful and most importantly, useful.  I was skeptical however when I picked up this book, wondering how she could really bring much more light to the subjects she has covered so thoroughly in other books.  I wondered needlessly!  The &quot;Battle for God&quot; is literally overflowing with new insights and historical perspective that makes sense out of the world we watch unfolding around us today.<br />This is not light reading.  It can't be.  To help us understand the depth of the fundamentalist movements, she begins in the year 1492 with a discussion of the distinction between mythos and logos.  As the chapters unfold, we witness the modernization of the west and the tension that builds between mythos and logos.  The context is so deftly laid out that her conclusions almost spill out on their own, and the reader feels as if scales have fallen off their eyes!  <br />It's important to appreciate that what makes this book powerful is Karen Armstrong's interpretation of the historical account she discusses.  Others may well interpret the same events in very different ways.  I, however, find her analysis brilliant, and because it increases my understanding, it contributes to a sense of compassion, and is therefore a useful spiritual endeavor.  <br />You will not read this book and be unaffected.  Some, as evidenced by reviews before this one, hated it.  Sometimes I think that we are unable to see that which is most close to us, including our religious orientation.  Ardent religious followers can almost NEVER view themselves or their belief system in an objective, unbiased manner.  Armstrong is often criticized because she is no longer a &quot;card-carrying Christian,&quot; and some assume she has either become atheist, or Muslim.  It is my contention that her ability to see through all the monotheistic traditions is precisely BECAUSE she has taken three giant steps out of those traditions.  Without the emotional baggage, or the need for allegience, she can see what so many might never see...she can indeed see the forest AND the trees!  This book helps the rest of us see it, too!	2002-01-09
US	49825333	R2OHJWX8MV7PB	0806513500	315215881	The 100: A Ranking Of The Most Influential Persons In History	Books	5	37	41	N	N	Both Fun and Important	I first read this book nearly 10 years ago when a friend lent it to me.  Since that time, I have referenced his &quot;logic&quot; in ranking the top 10 people (in particular) so many times that I had to buy the book for myself and my family.  Many will disagree with Hart's ranking (Christians especially are often appalled that Jesus was ranked third behind Muhammed and Isaac Newton), but the reasons are so compelling that it might actually be a force for change!  <br />Beyond that, this book is an exceptional little collection of mini-biographies of 100 influential people in history, and is a great reference book for families.  My teenagers have been reading it and talking about it, and for that alone, it was worth purchasing!  (Um...it's an excellent &quot;Bathroom Book!&quot;)	2002-01-09
US	49825333	R1PW5J2LLM681U	0062502891	50104143	The Chalice and the Blade: Our History, Our Future	Books	4	97	102	N	N	Offering an Optimistic Alternative	Books like this, if read by a broad enough audience, could alter the course of history.  Her insights are broad, her treatments are fair, and her paradigms apparently offer some degree of validity judging from the last section of her book (before the Epilogue) in which she describes 25 years ago much of the transformation we are witnessing today.<br />The general thesis of her book is essentially this.  The&quot;Dominator&quot; model of the world in which men rule not only each other, but especially women, with an iron and violent fist, is in fact an inovation that was introduced to a previously more egalitarian, Goddess-oriented civilization.  The original civilizations looked at creation and recognized that the creation of life is essentially a female process, symbolized by the Chalice.  It was only later when &quot;civilization&quot; decided that the power to take life superceded the power to give life, and replaced the Goddess with the Hero/War God (symbolized by the blade).  Over the course of several centuries, the broad social paradigms shifted, and we find our ancestors of recorded history so steeped in the dominator model (as opposed to the more female &quot;partnership&quot; model...) that we take it for granted as simply the way we are, or worse, the way God made us. <br />Eisler offers for the reader's consideration the possibility that we don't have to accept the violence-laden tendencies of the dominator model anymore.  With the rise of feminism in the past century, men and women alike are beginning to question the basic premise of a male-dominated society, and looking for ways to re-weave the social fabric...with some success.  Indeed, perhaps enough success that we might be on the cusp of a new social transformation, moving away from the dominator model that has really only been the source of so much suffering, and toward a partnership model which values aliance and relationships more than possession and power.  Unfortunately, we will be required toexperience a backlash of fundamentalism for a while, as the bastions of the dominator model (monotheistic religion, communism, and capitalism) fight for their very survival. <br />There are disturbing bits of awareness in this book for those readers (such as myself) who have not read much in the way of feminist material.  It is shocking to learn of the basic, dogmatic, written tenets of religious and contemporary philosophy (including those of St. Augustine, Marx, and Nietzsche to name a few) who directly state that the subjugation of the female sex is essential for the survival of the human species!  As we watch the burka-shrouded forms of Afghani women beg in the streets of Kabul at this time, we are reminded of how real, and how insidious this objective of the dominator model truly is.<br />I only give this book 4 stars because there is a quality about her argument that leaves me slightly undone.  Maybe it's because I, too, am a product of the old system that struggles to make the transformation.  But I think it has to do with her insistance on an &quot;absolute,&quot; i.e. that the way women would run the world is inherintly better than the way men would run the world.  Her argument is founded on experience, but is therefore also limited by paradigm.  The partnership models she discusses at length in the early part of her book in Neolithic times and in Minoan Crete, were systems based on the cooperation of both men and women.  She acknowledges this.  Yet there is this nagging sense that she insists that the virtues of such a society are the exclusive realm of the female.  I am inclined to think that this is possibly a paradigm-driven bias.  Such virtues are now attributed to women more than men BECAUSE of the past 6000 years of the application of the dominator model, but successful transformation is wholly dependent on a mutual transformation of both women and men to a full partnership model that benefits from the inherent strengths of BOTH men and women, not just women.  For while it is nearly impossible to disagree that virtually all of the tragic events of history can be pinned to boorish, often childish, frequently violent behavior of men, that behavior is not necessarily programmed by biology so much as by socialization (of course both play a role).  So to suggest that &quot;female virtues&quot; are inherently superior to &quot;male qualities&quot; is missing a big part of the picture.  Men were responsible for the subjugation of women.  But what other developments do we presently benefit from that sprung from the strengths of men?  The key lies in her description of a &quot;partnership,&quot; rather than on the suggestion that &quot;one is better than the other.&quot;  Truthfully, I think that this is what she intends (she is not a &quot;man-basher&quot;), but since her emphasis is only on the negative contributions of men, the potential for real partnership is never fully explored in this book.<br />That said, this is a well written, thought provoking book that, as I said at the outset, could indeed facilitate the very transformation she discusses, if people would read it, talk about it, think about it, and reflect on whether or not we as a species really think that the course we've been on is in fact a healthy one.	2001-11-20
US	49825333	R1U6SVNE1R803F	067169507X	560916915	The Seat of the Soul	Books	2	458	530	N	N	Creative, but Terribly Disappointing	This is going to be an unpopular review...I know many have found Mr. Zukav's book a very rewarding read.  I, on the other hand, could not have been more disappointed.  I finished the book for the express purpose of writing this review.<br />Zukav speaks as one &quot;who knows&quot; without demonstrating that he possibly could know.  The book discusses authoritatively such issues as the nature of the soul, reincarnation, karma, the souls of animals versus those of humans, higher order guides and teachers, angels, and numerous other mystical concepts with ABSOLUTELY NO REFERENCE to where his thoughts and ideas come from.  He simply states them as fact, and assumes we will all just fall in behind him like sheep.  His model is little more than a creative mish-mash of Christianity, Buddhism, Hinduism, Platonic thought, psychic experience and science, all blended in a creative, but HIGHLY unsubstantiated paradigm.  He leans WAY too heavily on the inkling of quantum physics he gained while writing &quot;The Dancing Wu Li Masters&quot; and has made an abomination of some of those concepts.  For instance, he speaks of the human soul as literally being composed of light.  Not metaphorically, but literally.  But not the kind of light that science knows, for that would run him up against problems when someone tries to measure the wavelength of the soul.  No, his light is a DIFFERENT kind of light.  Are there relationships to quantum physics that could be drawn upon to understand the human condition and psyche?  Absolutely.  Did he address any of the legitimate ones?  Not one.<br />His ignorance and arrogance shines brilliantly throughout the book.  For instance, in the chapter on reverence he expresses shock that mankind would do &quot;one thing that would risk the balance of the Earth's ecosystem.&quot;  If he was really a student of evolution and dynamical systems, he would know full well that ecosystems are CONSTANTLY moved out of balance, and that is exactly the fuel that drives the evolution that his theory depends upon!  No one, not dolphins or squirrels or trees or people or even Mr. Zukav can prevent having an &quot;impact on the balance of the ecosystem.&quot;<br />There are myriads of inconsistencies in his paradigm that leaves the reader confused as to what he's really trying to say.  For instance, he speaks a good deal early on in the book of the impersonal universe that acts without judgment, being essentially the medium that allows life to just unfold (not unlike the Tao).  Later, he speaks of a Universe that has been divinely planned and executed to make sure that it is the perfect opportunity for each soul to achieve exactly the karmic balance it seeks.  Or he says, &quot;not one action of the Universe is without compassion.&quot;  These suggestions are anything BUT the actions of an impersonal universe.  So which is it?  Are we simply evolving according to principles that govern the system, or are we a part of grand, externally generated blue-print?  He also state's that &quot;Angels cannot be understood in human terms,&quot; and then he spends several paragraphs explaining the nature of angels...in human terms!  The inconsistency alone grates on me, but the audacity of the man to speak so authoritatively on the nature of Angels or anything else that &quot;cannot be understood in human terms&quot; is absurd.<br />Space does not allow for a point by point criticism of this book, and you don't want to read it anyway.  Suffice it to say that anyone that purports to &quot;know&quot; anything had better be able to back it up with either direct experience, or at least a coherent synthesis of the accepted works of others.  Zukav has done neither.  He has launched himself on a creative flight of fancy and tried to pass it off as wisdom regarding the manner in which the soul exists.  It is not wisdom.  It is not philosophy.  It is not religion, and it is not science. It is nothing more than Mr. Zukav's ideas, written in a creativeway that demonstrates his abilities in the English language far more than any gifts related to spirituality.  (Had he only stated that &quot;these are my ideas, see if you like 'em,&quot; then I could have been much more forgiving.  But he didn't.  He said, &quot;This is how it is.&quot;)<br />Zukav apparently has not learned the age old imperative that, &quot;the more I learn, the less I find I know.&quot;  He thinks he knows it all, and in so thinking, proves to me that he &quot;knows&quot; nothing.  For those who read the book and loved it, my apologies.  For those who have not yet read it, be cautious.way that demonstrates his abilities in the English language far more than any gifts related to spirituality.  (Had he only stated that &quot;these are my ideas, see if you like 'em,&quot; then I could have been much more forgiving.  But he didn't.  He said, &quot;This is how it is.&quot;)<br />Zukav apparently has not learned the age old imperative that, &quot;the more I learn, the less I find I know.&quot;  He thinks he knows it all, and in so thinking, proves to me that he &quot;knows&quot; nothing.  For those who read the book and loved it, my apologies.  For those who have not yet read it, be cautious.	2001-10-26
US	49825333	R1OEC690BIL7F9	067169507X	560916915	The Seat of the Soul	Books	2	39	44	N	N	Creative, but Terribly Dissappointing	This is going to be an unpopular review...I know many have found Mr. Zukov's book a very rewarding read.  I, on the other hand, could not have been more disappointed.  I finished the book for the express purpose of writing this review.<br />As a student of religion and culture, I was extremely disappointed with the manner in which Zukov approached his subject matter.  He speaks of such issues as the nature of the soul, reincarnation, the souls of animals vs. those of people, higher order guides and teachers, and numerous other mystical concepts with ABSOLUTELY NO REFERENCE to where his thoughts and ideas come from.  He states them as though we all agree that his model of the way the universe works is a given, and then proceeds to flesh out some of the details related to that model.  His model, of course, is a curious mish-mash of Christianity, Buddhism, Hinduism, Aristotlean thought, psychic experience and science, all blended in a creative, but highly unsubstantiated paradigm.  As a scientist, I think he leans WAY to heavily on the inkling of quantum physics he gained while writing &quot;The Dancing Wu Li Masters&quot; and has made an abomination of some of those concepts.  For instance, he speaks of the human soul as literally being composed of light.  Not metaphorically, but literally.  But not light as SCIENCE knows.  Oh no.  That would run him up against some problems when physics attempted to measure the wavelength of the soul.  No, his light is a DIFFERENT kind of light, but light nonetheless.  Are there relationships to quantum physics that could be drawn upon to understand the human condition and psyche?  Absolutely.  Did he address any of the legitimate ones?  Not one. <br />His igorance shines through in countless examples throughout the book (mine is marked up almost beyond recognition).  For instance, in the chapter on reverence, he expresses shock that mankind would do &quot;one thing that would risk the balance of the Earth's ecosystem.&quot;  If he was really a student of evolution and dynamical systems, he would know damn well that ecosystems are CONSTANTLY moved out of balance, and that is exactly why there is evolution in the first place!  So the fact that there are human beings at all, and they do stuff to the ecosystem is because that's the way the system works!  No one, not dolphins or squirrels or trees or people or even Mr. Zukov can prevent having an &quot;impact on the balance of the ecosystem.&quot;<br />There are myriads of inconsistencies in his thought paradigm that leaves the careful reader genuinely confused as to what he's trying to say.  For instance, he speaks a great deal of the impersonal Universe that acts without judgement, being essentially the medium that allows life to unfold (not unlike the &quot;Tao&quot; of Taoism or the &quot;Way&quot; of Zen).  And then later he speaks of a Universe that has been Divinely planned and executed to make sure that it is the perfect opportunity for each soul to achieve karmic balance.  Or he says &quot;not one action of the Universe is without compassion.&quot;  These suggestions are anything BUT the actions of in impersonal universe!  So which is it?  Are we evolving according to principal, or are we guided by a grand blue-print?  Another example of his inconsistency is in the chapter on souls, where he states that Angels cannot be understood in human terms, and then goes on to describe the nature of Angels!  The inconsistency alone grates on me, but the audacity of the man to speak matter of factly about the nature of Angels or anything else &quot;that cannot be understood in human terms&quot; is absurd.<br />Lastly, I echo the criticisms of others that point out how unbelievably redundant this book is.  I don't know HOW many times he points out the relationship of the personality to the soul, and the difference between the 5-sensory and the multi-sensory person.  The book is 90% filler and 10% stuff, and only a fraction of that &quot;stuff&quot; wasconvincingly insightful.<br />Space does not allow for a point by point criticism of this book, and you don't want to read it anyway.  Suffice it to say that anyone that purports to &quot;know&quot; anything had better be able to back it up with direct experience, or at least produce a coherent synthesis of the accepted work of others.  Zukov has done neither.  He has launched himself on a creative flight of fancy and tried to pass it off as wisdom regarding the manner in which the soul exists.  It is not wisdom.  It is not philosphy.  It is not religion.  It is nothing more than Mr. Zukov's ideas, written in a creative way that demonstrates his gifts in the realm of English far more than in the realm of spirituality or mysticism.  (If he would have just SAID as much, that these are just his own thoughts and ideas, then I would have let go all of my angst over this book, but he never does.  He just speaks as though he knows, and assumes we will simply believe him.  Well, not all of us are willing to do that.)<br />As an afterthought, I expect there are those who are fuming at this review, and who assume I am a narrow-minded person with no bent to the psychic or the spiritual, or that I have an over-dependence on things concrete and tangible.  Nothing could be further from the truth.  I consider myself extremely open to the possibilities that exist in the Universe, and pretend nothing when it comes to my own experience and knowledge.  I am a student of life and living, thought and creativity, religion and philosophy and culture and science, and STILL this book left me empty and irritated.  For those who love the book, my appologies.  For those who have not yet read it, be cautious.	2001-10-18
US	49825333	R3VRGZBO91C7JF	0140092501	887185706	Chaos: Making a New Science	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Where Chaos Reigns...	This book ranks among my top 5 favorites.  Not only is it well written and well researched, it cannot help but change the way you view the world...and in the process, change you!  What Gleick has essentially done is tell the stories of prominent people who began to crack the world of chaos.  And these stories read like novels that you can't put down!  You'll puzzle with Benoit Mandelbrot as he asks, &quot;What is the length of the coast of Britain?&quot; and marvel later at the unimaginable complexity of his Mandelbrot set.  You may also begin to wonder just how applicable the &quot;idea&quot; of fractals might be to our own lives and culture.  You will sit with Lorentz as he watches his weather computer spit out diverging results from what he believed to be identical inputs, and realize right along with him the power of the butterfly effects.  And the list goes on.  Just as Galileo rocked the world with the notion that the earth is not at the center of the universe, and Newton reshaped all of physics with his &quot;clockwork universe,&quot; and Einstein blew us away with relativity, and Bohr et al boggled our minds with Quantum mechanics, so too will Chaos re-shape the way you perceive the operations at work around you, and MAN, will it make you wonder!  Perhaps things are not as simple as they seem.<br />If you are not a technically trained scientist, don't worry...neither is James Gleick.  He's a writer who knows how to do his homework and tell a story, and anyone with a mind standing wide open will LOVE this book!  But beware...you cannot predict how this will change your life...only that it will!	2001-10-01
US	49825333	R2L74K3DM6KXQL	0861711769	141108397	Eight Mindful Steps to Happiness: Walking the Buddha's Path	Books	5	144	149	N	N	Eight Step Program for Living	Bhante Henepola Gunaratana has summarized all of the Buddha's path to happiness, everything we know about affecting change in our lives, and everything that psychology teaches us about healthy living into a single, easy to read, easy to apply manual for happiness.  This book is a gem!  It can be used for inspiration, or instruction.  It can be read countless times for added insight.  If you are inclined toward Buddhism, or at least are taken with the Buddhist perspective, you will appreciate the straightforward approach he takes to describing the eight steps.  If you are not Buddhist or so inclined, you might be put off with some of what you read (the Author clearly believes that the Buddha's way is THE way, and you might be inclined to think of Jesus as the way, or someone else), but I think any rational person would recognize the power and potential for creating change that is captured in this book.  <br />The eight steps are: <br />1.  Skillful Understanding - recognizing the roles of cause and effect, and truly understanding the Four Noble Truths as taught by the Buddha<br />2.  Skillful Thinking - Emphasis on understanding how our attachment to things is the source of our suffering (letting go), the practice of loving-friendliness, and practicing compassion.<br />3.  Skillful Speach - Special emphasis on truth-telling, gentle speach, and avoiding useless chatter.<br />4.  Sillful Action - Particular attention to the Five Precepts, namely abstaining from killing, stealing, speaking falsely, sexual misconduct and misuse of intoxicants.<br />5.  Skillful Livelihood - Understanding that how we make a living can have negative or positive impacts (skillful or unskillful) on our path to happiness.<br />6.  Skillful Effort - Recognizing and dealing with the hindrances and fetters that keep us tied to our unhappiness.<br />7.  Skillful Mindfulness - A study of mindfulness practice in terms of the body, feelings, the mind, and mental objects.<br />8.  Skillful Concentration - Teaches what concentration means in the context of meditation, and how it is developed through the four stages to full Concentration.<br />At each step, you'll recognize yourself and the things you do that hold you back from the path of happiness.  You'll find solace in the knowledge that you are not alone (these are common to all us human beings), and relief in learning how to see things differently so that the world you live in works FOR you and not against you.<br />This is a wonderful book, and anyone who feels they need to make changes in their life would benefit enormously.	2001-07-26
US	49825333	R73K7WHG36Q13	093807721X	454208808	Present Moment Wonderful Moment: Mindfulness Verses for Daily Living	Books	5	41	43	N	N	Present Book Wonderful Book!	Thich Nhat Hanh is simply one of the easiest, most gentle authors on the practical application of eastern thought available today.  Present Moment, Wonderful Moment is a delight to read.  It is a collection of useful verses to keep us mindful throughout the day, recognizing how easy it is to lose sight of the present moment when the crash of life clamors about us constantly.  Thich Nhat Hanh uses the technique of memorizing &quot;gathas&quot; for the purpose of focusing the mind on the thing you are doing now rather than on whatever other chatter is going on in the mind.  Further, with each verse there is anywhere from a paragraph to a few pages of commentary that give the reader not only insight into the application of the verse, but also insight into the mind and soul of Thich Nhat Hanh.  The result is inspirational, soothing, and useful.  Of particular importance is the fact that the author, while a monk, is not in the least unaware of the realities of modern life, and included in his verses are ones for talking on the phone, turning on the television, and turning on an electric light. Those not familiar with mindfulness practice might wonder at the insignificance of those daily, mundane experiences, but Thich Nhat Hanh helps us to recognize that there is life &quot;spent&quot; in each of those (and countless other) little activities, and without recognizing that life mindfully, it is life wasted.  This man has a simple message...live life fully, abundantly, happily and peacefully, with full awareness of that life as you experience it in the moment.  This is a book you will refer to often as you practice mindfulness.	2001-05-23
US	49825333	R22LSGN3W3XOLR	0861710649	324018314	Mindfulness in Plain English	Books	5	271	274	N	N	Exactly what the Title Says it is...	Sometimes when I pick up titles on meditation, yoga, or other practices associated with Eastern philosophy, mysticism or relgion, I am overcome with the author's inability to say what they mean in language that is useful to the rest of us.  My relief was enormous, therefore, when a friend gave me this book by Venerable Henepola Gunaratana!  This book is exactly what the title implies...easy to read and understand because it is not written in mystic hokum, rather it is written in plain english.  The result is a manual for the beginning student of meditation that is sufficient to get you well on your way to benefitting from the practice of Insight Meditation.  <br />In &quot;Mindfulness&quot; you will gain an understanding of what mindfullness is, how to cultivate it both during sitting practice and the rest of the time, tips on how to sit and how to overcome some of the most common distractions (including your feet going to sleep and your back hurting), and what to look for and what to avoid.  I have not been practicing meditation for long, and this book was of enormous value in helping me identify the things I was doing that served as barriers to effective insight meditation, as well as giving me ideas on how to enhance the effectiveness of my meditation.  <br />This is an extremely practical book for the western practitioner.  It draws heavily upon the Buddhist paradigm, but the techniques for effective meditation cross all sect boundaries, and the beginning practitioner of any faith will find this book of enormous benefit.  I would strongly encourage the reader to suppliment this book with &quot;The Miracle of Mindfulness&quot; by Thich Nhat Hahn.  The two together are a delightfully easy to read but complete and well rounded introduction to the practices of Insight Meditation.  If you want to know how but don't want to hire a Yogi to translate, this book is the place to start.	2001-05-21
US	49825333	R1B1ZBK73XUTCB	0670891932	767275402	Buddha (Penguin Lives)	Books	5	14	17	N	N	Buddha Made Accessible to the Western World	Karen Armstrong does the Western World a HUGE service in this little biography of the Buddha.  She is an accomplished researcher/writer on religious history, has a brilliant understanding of religious development, and has applied her wealth of knowledge to a man and time that is generally not familiar to the Western mind.  She is honest in her assessment of the availability of biographical information, and she is honoring of the recognition that she cannot express with first hand insight the claims of the Buddha regarding the atainment of Nirvana. <br />Many of the reviewers have expressed concern over Ms. Armstrong's &quot;distance&quot; from the Buddha, writing of his life at an arms length.  I believe that is a responsble choice on her part, not a shortcoming.  What I look for in a biography of a religious leader is someone who can look at the life of the man without being hopelessly influenced by what they personally believe that leader's life to be about.  For instance, a devout Christian cannot write objectively about the life of Jesus, because there is too much personal baggage associated with what they believe about Jesus to write objectively about his life.  The same goes for Mohammed, Moses, Confuscious, Lao Tzu, Paul, Joseph Smith, and likewise, the Buddha.  I appreciated the arm's length approach, because it provides a certain degree of integrity in analyzing who the man was in the context of his time, not just in the context of his dhamma.  For instance, her analysis of the Buddha's unwillingness to allow women into the Sangha is only possible coming from someone who does not feel compelled to apologize, rationalize, or make excuses for their spiritual leader's shortcomings.  Furthermore, Ms. Armstrong is keenly aware throughout the book of who her audience is (predominantly American, with a predominantly Christian paradigm of the world), and she frequently demonstrates similarities in the life of the Buddha and the evolution of his Sanhga to the life of Jesus, or likens his experience to Christian elements that the Western mind can easily relate to.  From my perspective, that makes the Buddha's life more accessible to those of us who cannot read the Pali Cannon, sanskrit, or any of the source material which she has digested for us.  <br />But all that said, this book does a marvelous job of helping the lay reader appreciate the struggles of the Axial age, and the personal struggles of the Buddha.  It serves as a first taste of the fundamental principles of Buddhism, which is probably just right for those who are not Buddhist, but who are interested.  A Buddhist with a long history in the tradition might be unsatisfied, however...but that was never her intended audience. There is enough real insight in the book that I found that I had marked it up considerably by the time I was done, and frankly had found some keys that unlocked some personal doors.  <br />Is this the &quot;last&quot; book on the Buddha?  Of course not.  Look at it...it's tiny.  There have been 2,500 years of history, application, study, evolution, culture and science that has come since the Buddha first &quot;went forth,&quot; and 189 pages cannot say it all.  Nor does she try.  What she does do, and she does this well, is introduce the Western mind to the possibility that the Buddha really had achieved something unique, and something extraordinarily powerful.  His life was a living testament that people can live in this life without suffering, and that is a message that is timeless.  I highly recommend this book.	2001-05-02
US	49825333	R1OCJ3GFGYKGDF	0807012327	335909083	The Miracle of Mindfulness: A Manual on Meditation	Books	5	479	490	N	N	Accessible Mindfulness for Anyone	This little treatise is nothing less than a handbook for more effective, more joyful living.  Thich Nhat Hanh has a beautifully simple, wonderfully direct manner of communicating the need to live mindfully, and using the practice of meditation as a means for becoming more mindful.  Living in exile in Paris, this humble Vietnamese monk has worked tirelessly for decades, living his religion of compassion for the poor and orphaned in his native Vietnam.  He is a living testament to the power of mindful living.<br />In addition to being a treat for your mind, Thich Nhat Hanh provides a number of exercises that help the student of meditation begin the process of focusing and concentrating on the moment at hand.  It is a book that will be especially of value to those who are just beginning to meditate, (which is where I find myself), though I expect that as with most things written by wise people, the experienced student of meditation will find much of value as well.<br />This is not a book about Buddhism. It draws very heavily on the path to enlightenment that the Buddha taught as his fourth Noble Truth, but this book is first and foremost about mindful living.  In that sense, it is completely accessible to the Christian, Jewish, agnostic or anyone else who recognizes the power of meditation in acheiving a degree of personal enlightenment.  Thich Nhat Hanh has written extensively on the relationship between the principles taught by the Buddha and Jesus, and he is ever mindful of the needs of his Christian/Western audience as well as that of his Buddhist audience.  Regardless of your religious orientation, you will find this little book to be an effective guide to living mindfully, completely and with joy.	2001-04-30
US	49825333	R25J2PI5ZCARET	0679730540	783796428	No Man Knows My History: The Life of Joseph Smith	Books	5	729	844	N	N	A Timeless Classic in Mormon Studies	I've consummed a library of books on Mormon studies, and had held off on reading &quot;No Man Knows My History&quot; because I had already read a considerable quantity of biographical material on Joseph Smith.  I capitulated at last only because it is among the most well known books on early Mormon history.  I am so glad I did.  No book could have pulled it all together and made sense of it all as well as Fawn Brodie's book.  It is as valuable today as it was when it was first written over half a century ago.  None of the objective scholarship of recent years contradicts her conclusions, but rather validates her, page after page after page.  Her insight is piercing, her style is almost poetic, and her message is powerful.  <br />It is not any easy book for a Mormon to read, as is evidenced by some of the reactionary attacks Brodie receives in some of the reviews already written.  The faithful do not want to hear that Joseph Smith was an &quot;evolutionary revolutionary,&quot; his doctrine growing with his ego and sense of personal magnificence.  But this is no mean swipe at the character of Joseph Smith...if anything, you come away with a sense of awe at the creative genius, the charismatic giant that he must have been.  If he brought scorn and violence upon himself and his people, it was a measure of the power he produced and the fear that he struck in lesser men with whom he shared his time and space.  Nevertheless, Brodie's exploration of the world of Joseph Smith and the context within which his doctrine evolved is brilliant.  She is adept at recognizing the role that projection has played throughout his career, beginning with the Book of Mormon, and continuing on through all of his other writings, including the History of the Church.  Ms. Brodie says it best herself in the opening lines of Chapter 19: &quot;A man's memory is bound to be a distortion of his past in accordance with his present interests, and the most faithful autobiography is likely to mirror less what a man was than what he has become.&quot;  Or as is so often the case, &quot;less what a man was than what he wished he had become.&quot;  To one who has studied the role of paradigms in shaping the way we interpret our world, Brodie's book makes the most beautiful sense.  To one who's faith is at stake, however, her book may serve to threaten the idylic, heroic legend of Joseph Smith that has been carefully nurtured since his murder in 1844.  <br />This is among the finest pieces of historical literature I have had the priveledge of reading.  Her scholarship and writing and fearless approach to tackle controversial issues with objectivity and sensitivity is matched only by Juanita Brooks in the realm of Mormon studies.  This is a book not just to read, but to consume.	2001-04-02
US	49825333	R1LI61HMO5HKM6	0691008825	702059387	Zhuangzi Speaks: The Music of Nature	Books	5	8	8	N	N	You, too, can understand the Tao	The Chinese Tao is not easily accessible to the Western mind because culturally, historically, linguistically and philosophically, the eastern mind sees the world differently.  What Chih-Chung Tsai (CC Tsai) and Brian Bruya have done is provide insights to Taoism that are easily accessed by you and me living in the western world.  The illustrations, while simple, assist in bridging the gap between east and west.  This is a mind treat, something you give yourself because, well, it's just pleasant.  At the same time, it's profound, tapping into thousands of years of wisdom, coming from the Tao's most famous commentator Chuang-tzu (Zhuangzi in pinyin).  Each story, generally only a page or two and seldom more than 150 words, strikes at the heart with the accuracy of an archer's arrow.  If you are at all curious about what the Tao might mean to you, this is a delightful way to begin to take a peak.  If you are already familiar with the concepts of Taoism, you may find this a refreshing new look at an ancient awareness.	2001-03-09
US	49825333	R1FQRMCTQ0YT1M	0060675578	645102118	Liberating the Gospels: Reading the Bible with Jewish Eyes	Books	5	24	27	N	N	Open Your Eyes Wide!	For me personally, this was one of the five most influential books I've ever read. John Shelby Spong, Episcopal Bishop, has done the world of religious insight an enormous service.  He forces open the eyes of our paradigms, and shows us that there are potentially new ways to read the bible that don't force us to throw reason out the window.  The rational mind struggles to accept the almost absurdly miraculous world of the bible when it is so clearly unlike anything we experience today.  The result is a culture torn between what it believes and what it observes, and we can't make sense out of the two.  Spong points out that the Western mind has adulterated the Jewish books of the bible by asking the wrong questions:  We should not be asking &quot;Did these things really happen?&quot; (i.e. if this can be shown to be a true historical account, then we can feel confident that it is likewise a true spiritual account).  Rather, if we read the books of the bible, especially the four gospels, from the Jewish context in which they were written, we'll learn to ask instead the question, &quot;What does this mean?&quot;  That way we are not required to wholesale believe that Elijah was fed by ravens, that Sampson's strength was actually related to the length of his hair, or that Jesus was born of a virgin, turned water into wine, or walked on water.  We learn that it is absolutely not important whether or not these things happened in history; what matters is what was the experience of the early apostles as they encountered the divine in the man/teacher Jesus? What did they learn from that encounter, and how did it change the way they behave and how they view themselves in relation to God? To liberate the bible from the fundamentalist thinking of &quot;a literal history is necessery for spiritual credibility,&quot; is essential for the Christian ethos to survive in a world where we know with a high degree of assurance that the historical possibility or scientific validity of somuch of the bible, especially the miracles, just isn't there.  But the meaning, the power, and the truth of the principles shines through, and THAT is what it was always intended to do.<br />This is not a hard book to read, and does not require a Ph.D. in history or theology.  Spong is an easy writer to follow, and he explains himself clearly such that any lay reader can make sense of the insights he shares.  If you have ever struggled with the disparity between &quot;Old Testament reality&quot; versus &quot;New Testament Reality&quot; versus &quot;contemporary reality,&quot; this will be a book that frees your mind from many of the shackles and chains that have made the bible such a difficult element in your life.  For me, it made the bible come alive...	2001-02-15
US	49825333	RKEWG8Q94FB8O	0963473263	473424514	Quest for the Gold Plates	Books	4	209	226	N	N	Choose Your &quot;Quest&quot; Wisely	Thomas Ferguson was, according to Stan Larson, an earnest, if not zealous young lawyer who was determined to &quot;prove&quot; the authenticity of the Book of Mormon by virtue of archeology.  He was not the first to do so, nor was he the last, and indeed, archeological &quot;proof&quot; continues to surface among church members.  What he found during his Quest was that the evidence he was certain he could find turned out to be more problematic than he ever dreamed.  So much so that he became convinced that it would never be found...indeed, COULD never be found.  <br />What rocked his faith, however, was not the lack of archeological evidence, for there were always still possibilities why they hadn't found it yet.  What collapsed Ferguson's faith was the dubious authenticity of the Book of Abraham once the original Joseph Smith papyri were found in a musuem in New York.  Ferguson had the papyri translated by reputable Egyptologists, only to learn that the so-called source of the Book of Abraham was nothing more than common funerary papyri from a common Egyption mummy.  His research proved, much to his dismay, that Joseph Smith had no knowledge of hieroglyphics, nor could he have interpreted the writings or facsimilies in any legitimate way and produce the Book of Abraham.  From Ferguson's point of view, it could only have been a fiction from the mind of Joseph Smith.  With this realization, coupled with the gross lack of ANY supportive archeological evidence, Ferguson concluded that the Book of Mormon was a similar fiction...the product of an imaginative genius, but probably not the divinely inspired and protected record that he had previously believed.<br />The rest of the story is how Ferguson tried to walk a double life, living out the duration of his life as an active, though unusual member of the church, singing in the choir, attending the meetings and socials he chose to, for the purpose of maintaining some ties with the people and the &quot;fraternity&quot; heloved.  He became convinced that religion is of itself a healthy exercise for a moral society, and he had concluded that the Mormon Church had as worthy a formula for good as any.  So he maintained his affiliation, but not without certain sacrifices.<br />To me, the most inspirational part of the story is the courage it requires to undertake an honest quest, and be changed by what you find regardless of how much it challenges what you had previously believed.  That is an essential element in all human growth and development, and were it not for courageous men like Ferguson, (or Galileo, or Einstein, or Darwin, or others) who are willing to question their own beliefs and study objectively what they observe, then civilization would never advance.  Thomas Stuart Ferguson is a shining and intriguing example of one who was willing to make the quest, regardless of the outcome.	2001-02-12
US	49825333	R18ZUPMPE7XDAE	1560850604	478287682	The Mormon Hierarchy: Extensions of Power	Books	4	61	76	N	N	The Other Side of the Patriarchal Coin	This is a fascinating book.  Don't be disuaded by the number of pages, and don't fret the large number of citations.  Quinn is a master researcher, but more important, he has some strong and insightful opinions regarding the power structure of the Mormon Church.  He respectfully (and candidly) explores some difficult issues, such as the evolution of the various offices of general authorities, (no, it's not the same today as it was 150 years ago, or the way it was in Old Testament times...), the degree of familial relationship among general authorities, and the manner in which decisions are made to appear unanimous, even when there is real dissent.  Along the way, he shines his detective's light on stories tucked away in the collective cognitive closet of Mormondom, such as efforts to keep black men from receiving the priesthood nearly 15 years earlier than they eventually did, political entanglements on the Equal Rights Amendment and homosexual issues, and especially fascinating was the chapter on Ezra Taft Benson's extremely controversial John Birch Society association and his partisan political activities during the tumultuous &quot;cold war&quot; years.  This is a fascinating read, and a great opportunity for folks to see &quot;the other side,&quot; the real, human side, of the men Mormons revere as &quot;prophets, seers and revelators.&quot;<br />A note about Quinn's critics.  Quinn takes a lot of heat for his copious, almost obscene number of footnotes and references.  Many reviewers of Quinn's writings are not convinced that his research is reliable.  I say &quot;hogwash.&quot;  The reason I say that is that the author of a book such as this is doing more than just reporting a list of facts, dates, times and places.  He's consuming massive amounts of information, and synthesizing it according to his own experience, education, history and paradigms, and producing an interpretation of his study.  This is not unique to Quinn...I would argue that every historian,no matter how objective they think they are, in the final analysis produces nothing more than their personal interpretation of events that are only observable from a distance.  The reality is, the Mormon people are, and always have been, a &quot;record keeping people.&quot;  Subsequently, Michael Quinn has a remarkable amount of material available to him.  As the historian consumes such material, an integrated picture begins to form; his interpretation.  It may not represent the same conclusions that another, equally well-read researcher might come up with, but it is valid non-the-less.  So my response to the critics below who are concerned that their interpretation of Quinn's reference material is not the same as his is, &quot;so what?&quot;  You are apparently standing and looking at what he is looking at from a different perspective, with different ideas, learning and study, and you are entitled to a different oppinion.  That in no way minimizes Quinn's efforts, but rather magnifies the point that such scholarly investigation and study is well worth the time and effort.<br />Well done, Mr. Quinn, and thanks for sharing your thoughtful observations with the many of us who will never gain access to the materials that you have studied.  To those who disagree with him, feel free to write a book, and we'll explore your conclusions, too!	2000-12-15
US	49825333	RAYGY0336HYEJ	1560850116	735388849	The New Mormon History: Revisionist Essays on the Past (Essays on Mormonism Series)	Books	4	31	33	N	N	A Sampler's Table of Mormon Study	Michael Quinn has collected a body of work that is sure to be remembered as one of his least controversial works in general circulation.  That's all well and good, but it wasn't as &quot;fun&quot; to read as some of his own writings.<br />That said, this is a fine compilation, a smorgasborg that allows someone the opportunity to sample some of the &quot;non-traditional&quot; LDS studies that are available to the open-minded, yet faithful Mormon student.  As Quinn defines them, the &quot;new Mormon Historians&quot; are a breed of scholar/student/writer who examine difficult, complex, and often controversial subjects in the church with an eye toward objectivity.  The result is material that is neither condemning nor ridiculously apologetic, but rather intelligent and reasonable, with the intent to understand the faith system which they continue to maintain.  Quinn respectfully tributes Juanita Brooks for paving this path for careful, objective and yet still faithful Mormon scholarship.<br />Topics covered in this collection include Mormon authority, evolving interpretatins and use of the First Vision and the Joseph Smith story, charismatic and priesthood gifts and useage among early Mormon women, the legend of the crickets and gulls, polygamy issues, and more.  Each essay could send an interested reader down a long path of further study by reviewing the lists of reference material available in each author's footnotes.<br />A book like this might be a fine place for someone just starting the adventure of understanding Church History.  As mentioned below, however, serious students of Church History will be very familiar with about everything found between these two covers.	2000-10-24
US	49825333	R1L7ENT6U8ZPWP	1560850566	949794387	The Mormon Hierarchy: Origins of Power	Books	5	138	148	N	N	Quinn's Out of Control - Thank Goodness!	Every time I read one of Quinn's &quot;monsters,&quot; I have to laugh at the shear volume of reference material he cites.  He's out of control!  And let me be among the first in line to thank him for wading through the tons of materials he has in order to produce this kind of work.  He takes a lot of heat from polemicists and apologists alike who fear that his interpretation is somehow threatening to their comfort level regarding their own belief.  They criticize his work because they would come to a different conclusion reading what he has read.  So...write your own book!  This book is Quinn's interpretation, and from my assessment, it's an excellent one.<br />The book itself is a careful examination of the evolution of the power structure in the Mormon church, taking you from the time when Joseph Smith was just &quot;a charismatic visionary&quot; with a few followers who shared his vision, up until he was annointed &quot;King in Israel,&quot; running for President of the United States.  Along the way you learn about the creation of the different offices in the priesthood, their quirks and difficulties, and how they all shake out in the end.  His chapter on the Theocratic kingdom, with the emphasis on &quot;theocratic ethics,&quot; (Quinn's self-coined phrase) is brilliant and illuminating.  Additionally, his treatment of the succession crisis following the murder of Joseph Smith is the clearest, most complete explaination I have ever read.  I have never been comfortable with the way a new Church President just ascends to office, but when you're done with Quinn's book, the widsom in the system is self-evident.<br />I expect many of his critics struggle with the fact that Quinn is not bashful about pointing out the discrepencies between authorized Church History or canonized revelations, and the original journals, meeting minutes, and all too often, the original published version of a revelation that no longer served the needs of a changing hierarchical structure.  Well, the bottom line is, documents WERE changed, and meaning was subsequently altered, and those stories are important in understanding the evolution of leadership in the Mormon Church.<br />This is an excellent book, and is surprisingly easy to read given the academic subject matter.  Quinn is often original in his thinking, is obsessive in his research, and is probably among the most insightful historians on the Mormon Church today.  I'm on my way now to read the second volume, &quot;Extensions of Power,&quot; a bigger &quot;monster&quot; than this one!Well, the bottom line is, documents WERE changed, and meaning was subsequently altered, and those stories are important in understanding the evolution of leadership in the Mormon Church. <br />This is an excellent book, and is surprisingly easy to read given the academic subject matter.  Quinn is often original in his thinking, is obsessive in his research, and is probably among the most insightful historians on the Mormon Church today.  I'm on my way now to read the second volume, &quot;Extensions of Power,&quot; a bigger &quot;monster&quot; than this one!	2000-09-26
US	49825333	R27FPQDOS8GPJZ	1560850302	584336740	Sidney Rigdon: A Portrait of Religious Excess	Books	5	58	62	N	N	Putting Mormon History in Perspective	This is a marvelous treatise on the history of the LDS church that has  been largely forgotten, overlooked, and in some cases, edited right out.   Sidney Rigdon was without question one of the most significant forces  shaping the early Church, yet because he fell out of favor with the Quorum  of the Twelve Apostles following the murder of Joseph Smith, his  contributions have been airbrushed out of the collective Mormon  consciousness.  Van Wagoner goes a long way in correcting that error.   <br />This book will not always be a comfortable read for active Mormons.  As  Van Wagoner reviews the life and ecentricities of Joseph's spokesman, so,  too is there a hard review of the circumstances in which Rigdon lived, most  notably his association with Joseph Smith and other prominent leaders of  the LDS church. It is not difficult to conclude that both men were  religious fanatics, though Joseph's life was cut short and his zeal and  fanatiscm may not have had the chance to develop to its fullest, as did  Rigdon's.  Nevertheless, the parallels are striking, and the objective  reader can't help but wonder how much of what Joseph said or did was  because of his association with Sidney Rigdon, rather than his prophetic  call.  <br />Because Sidney left the faith (well, left the Brighamite  faith...he was true to the Book of Mormon and everything Joseph Smith  taught with the glaring exception of polygamy), the conventional history of  the church has little to say about Rigdon.  That, then, is the very reason  why this book is such an important contribution to the library of any  serious student of church history.  Sidney's experience in the  establishment of the church begins to deviate from the standard version  during the Nauvoo years, and Van Wagoner's treatment of the battle to  establish primacy in the leadership of the Church post-martyrdom is  something every Mormon should read.  <br />The fact that Van Wagoner ventures  an educated and thoughtful guess as to the psychodynamics of Ridgon's mind  is the subject of some criticism.  I found his treatment of that issue to  be fair, but more importantly, only incidental to the whole story.  Van  Wagoner could have left his oppinions completely unspoken, and when you  were finished with the book, you, too, would conclude that &quot;all was  not well&quot; in the mind and thinking of Sidney Rigdon.  That tends to  raise some important questions when you consider how significant he was in  influencing Joseph Smith.<br />Above all, Sidney Rigdon was a brilliant man  with a penchant for excess, particularly when it comes to his religious  convictions regarding the imminent return of Jesus Christ, the destruction  of the world, and the redemption of Zion (which turned out to be in a whole  bunch of places in Sidney's world).  The study of his life reveals the  genesis of that thinking, and suggests that much of the millenialistic  thought and zeal of the early Mormons may well have been driven by none  other than Sidney Rigdon.<br />This is a book I will recommend to all my  friends.  Hold on to your hat, though, because it's quite a ride!	2000-09-13
US	49825333	RNL4C8RUX8EA1	0941214796	850143647	Mormon Polygamy: A History	Books	4	13	16	N	N	Excellent Treatment of Controversial Subject	My hat's off to Richard Van Wagoner for this exploration of a subject little understood by either Mormons or non-Mormons.  While there is SO much more that could be said on the issue of plural marriage and the over-all  role it played in the world view of the early Saints, it is an excellent  &quot;primer&quot; on the matter.  For those who really want to understand  plural marriage in the Church, it will be necessary to read much more, but  this is a great place to start. (A previous reviewer notes Todd Compton's  &quot;In Sacred Loneliness&quot; as a good one, which I echo, as well as  &quot;Mormon Enigma&quot; by Newell and Tippits.  Numerous other  biographies and histories, especially those NOT written by BYU professors  or FARMS writers or their ilk, will provide glimpses and insights into the  world of polygamy.) <br />Van Wagoner gives a broad over-view of plural  marriage from its first indications when Joseph Smith &quot;married&quot;  Fanny Alger, all the way up to modern-day polygamist fundamentalists and  some of the bizarre twists and turns that it has taken along the way  (includes discussions of the Lebarons and other contemporary polygmists, as  well as the difficulty in prosecuting polygamy and bygamy in Utah).  His  treatment is thorough (though necessarily brief for an overview of this  nature), without being judgemental or &quot;anti-mormon&quot; in any way.   While many may argue that we don't have a need to continue to go over the  &quot;shadows of our past,&quot; I suggest that you can't understand  Mormonism without an appreciation of this central and sacred doctrine of  Joseph Smith and his successors.  Equally important, the book is a delight  to read, as Van Wagoner proves himself a capable writer.  This is the kind  of reading that is, in my opinion, essential for those Mormons seeking to  really understand the roots of their religion.  But YOU get to decide what  it all means!	2000-07-14
US	49825333	R3IT3BUUJZ3A5P	0060663715	848970811	Mormon America: The Power and the Promise	Books	5	170	189	N	N	About as Fair as Non-Mormons Could Be	I echo the reviewers remarks in the dust jacket of the book, that the only objective review of Mormonism must be written by someone from outside the Church.  Many Mormon reviewers struggle with this book, but I think it is  essential that they remember one thing...IT WASN'T WRITTEN FOR YOU!  It was  written by non-mormons for the rest of the world who look in at the church  and ask, &quot;Just what the heck is going on in there, anyway?&quot;  Of  COURSE the authors are not going to give the same attention to every detail  that believers are going to want to see, because this is a single volume  book!  Latter-Day Saint theology is complex, has been written about  extensively, and it takes a serious student of history and religious  thought years and years to gain a complete picture of the church.  This  book is not a substitute for all that, since the vast majority of folks are  simply not interested in that level of detail.  The Ostlings have written  an overview, a glimpse, at this phenomenon called &quot;Mormonism&quot;  with a reasonably balanced treatment from those who are faithful believers,  those who are neutral, and those who have an axe to grind.  But that's  okay, since this is not a book that explores the complexities of Latter-Day  Saint doctrine, but rather a book that explores the cultural phenomenon  called Mormonism.  I especially appreciate their treatment of the  recognition that this is a quintessential American Church, and that its  appeal is broad for those elsewhere in the world who are either  Americanized, or who aspire to be.  A strong argument could be made for  changing the nickname from the &quot;Mormon Church&quot; to the  &quot;American Church,&quot; (though I'm sure every other church in America  would choke on that one!)<br />This book is highly recommended reading for  non-mormons living in Utah, Idaho, Arizona, and California, and anywhere  else where there are high concentrations of LDS folks.  It is good reading  for people whoseek a general understanding of various religious movements  or churches.  And if you are LDS, and want to know how you look to someone  from the outside, this is a good way to find out.  From my personal  perspective, if we find there are some things we don't like about how we  are perceived by others, then that's a good place for us to begin working  to bridge the gaps that still divide us from the rest of the world.	2000-07-14
US	49825333	R2BX87OV4H3O1F	156085085X	370702957	In Sacred Loneliness: The Plural Wives of Joseph Smith	Books	4	129	144	N	N	Myth Buster	On the first level, this book is about the women who married Joseph Smith.  Beyond that, though, this is a book about the early psychology of the Mormon Church, and the power of the prophetic and apostolic paradigm that  the Mormon people lived under during those early, charismatic years.  <br />At  first blush, the reader is amazed at the number of women Joseph Smith  married.  Traditional Mormon mythology teaches that J.S., Brigham Young,  Heber Kimball, et al, mostly married elderly women and widows who needed to  be taken care of in &quot;the kingdom,&quot; or that most were sealed to  them posthumously.  Many Mormans will be surprised to find out that Joseph  was polygamous at all, since Emma is the only wife we ever hear about in  &quot;authorized&quot; church history.  But to learn of the nature of those  relationships, including the fact that most were wives in consumated  relationships with the prophet while many had &quot;first husbands&quot; is  truly a myth buster.  <br />These women, however, were not just starry-eyed  groupies of the charismatic prophet.  These were remarkable women of great  charisma, leadership and personal power that they possessed of their own,  not merely borrowed from their husbands.  Their lives are tributes to the  spirit of early Mormon faith and endurance.<br />The second layer of this book  is a psycho-social study of the early mormon community, particularly from  the perspective of the female leadership.  These were women who  participated in priesthood administrations, healings, speaking in tongues,  visions and the administration of temple ordinances.  These were women who  found a way to create a sisterhood of wives when their husbands were so  largely removed from the day-to-day affairs of their enormous families.   These were often self-sustaining frontierswomen who played a courageous and  unsung role in settling the Great Basin region of the intermountain west.   <br />Lastly, I believe this book provides the necessary insight to understand  why polygamy failed: it was too psychologically and physically taxing on  its participants.  Todd Compton does not make any judgement along these  lines...the reader is free to come to this conclusion on their own.  But to  read of the sadness, the loneliness, and the heartache, such a conclusion  is inevitable.  <br />Compton does the world of history a great favor by  bringing together this collection of stories and insights about the leading  ladies of early Mormondom.  It is an essential counter-balance to the  traditional patriarchal authorized history, and is often the history that  later Church leaders must have deemed &quot;unwelcome&quot; or at least  &quot;unimportant,&quot; because you won't find this history in  &quot;church approved&quot; manuscripts.  It will, however, assist the  seeker in determining for themselves the spirit, and culture, out of which  sprung the church we know today.	2000-07-03
US	49825333	R3JKS3A4QBIGFO	0195109716	378205011	Mormons and the Bible: The Place of the Latter-day Saints in American Religion (Religion in America)	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Essential for Understanding Contemporary Mormonism	This is an excellent book.  Period.  Philip Barlow uses the life and teachings of several prominent Church leaders to demonstrate the evolution of biblical thinking in the Mormon Church, and raises some important  spectres along the way.  Most significant to me was the powerful influence  that the ultra-conservative Bruce R. McConkie has had on the contemporary  LDS understanding of the bible.  His personal bias toward the &quot;literal  bible&quot; has been incorporated in both his &quot;Mormon Doctrine&quot;  (considered by most faithful members to be THE LAST WORD on all doctrinal  points), as well as his subtle influence in the brief synopsis at the first  of each chapter in the most recent correlated Old and New Testaments used  by the LDS church.  Contrast that with the &quot;open canon&quot; of Joseph  Smith and Brigham Young, and you have a case for bonafide doctrinal  evolution in the Mormon Church.  Barlow points out that it is was the very  ability of Joseph Smith to question the bible in the first place that led  him to found a new religion.  <br />This books gets the highest recommendation  I could possibly give to anyone genuinely interested in understanding the  genesis and growth of Mormon thought.  Barlow writes about complex things  in a manner that is easily consumed by the lay reader, without sacrificing  scholarship.  This is an excellent book.	2000-07-03
US	49825333	R1HCHWDW4PQUZE	0806123184	725767459	The Mountain Meadows Massacre	Books	4	151	168	N	N	Thank you, Ms. Brooks	This was a hard story to tell.  The Mountain Meadows Massacre is one of Mormondom's most infamous stories, and one which members have steered clear of for years.  It is amazing that this book was written so long ago, and  yet so many of us are still uninformed on what happened.<br />What Ms. Brooks  has done is recreate the context in which this terrible act occurred.  The  Mormons of the southern colonies were in a highly aroused state knowing  that the army of the United States was marching their way.  The emigrant  party was overly boisterous, deriding the Mormons, their leaders, and  threatening to raise an army in California to return to destroy Utah.  The  Indians wanted some &quot;action&quot; against the &quot;Merrycats&quot;  (Americans) in retaliation for the poisoning death of some of their tribe,  and the Mormons new they needed the alliance of the Chiefs if they were to  offer any kind of effective resistence to the army that would arrive that  next spring.  All of this contributed to a sense of mob action that every  one of the participants would later regret.  What is important about this  book, however, is that it helps you understand that it was not a mere  malicious act of vengence or wickedness; it came in the context of war,  among a group of frightened farmers who had been driven from their homes by  violent mobs at least two or three times in the past 15 years.  Of course,  it doesn't minimize the heinous act.....<br />It is also important in understanding the apparently  diliberate sacrifice of John D. Lee, the only participant who was ever  brought to trial, and who was ultimately executed at the Mountain Meadows.   His loyalty to Brigham Young and the Church ultimately set him up to be the  scapegoat, with the Church relying on the Book of Mormon phrase &quot;it is  better that one man should perish than a whole nation dwindle in  unbelief.&quot;  They knew that a fair trial would drag the upper eschelons  of the Church hierarchy through themud, and the preservation of the Church  depended on that not happening.  <br />While there are those who will  criticize this work for some of its statistical inaccuracies (how many died  in the Fancher party...), it is important to keep in mind that this book  was written at a time when Mormon History was very difficult to obtain.  It  is remarkable that the story could be so well researched at all, and if  there are errors, they certainly seem excusable to me.  This book is still  the standard for anyone who studies the Mountain Meadows Massacre.	2000-06-14
US	49825333	R364DN84NEDXUL	1560850892	601843758	Early Mormonism and the Magic World View	Books	4	169	184	N	N	Tedious but Important	I am not a historian, nor an academic, so I did not read Quinn's book looking for impecable research, and I dared not get lost in the details.  And unlike many of his academic readers and critics, I will only read this  book once.  But that was enough.  In fact, what Quinn takes the most heat  for, his extensive, even obsessive research, was more of a burden for me  than enlightening.  I appreciate the fact that he has done a great deal of  research, but I assume that any credible author has.  What makes this book  important is not the fact that fully 50% of the pages are dedicated to  footnotes.  It's important because it throws necessary light on the  possibility that the traditional paradigm and interpretation of  &quot;authorized&quot; (read: &quot;doctored&quot; or at least  &quot;censored&quot;) LDS Church history is not necessarily the way things  came into being.  <br />This book is threatening to traditionalist Mormons.   It takes sacred mythology that surrounds the lives of the founding members  of the LDS church and turns it on its ear, but not for the sake of  &quot;breaking it,&quot; merely for the sake of seeing it in a manner which  may be more consistent with what it really was, rather than what we want it  to be.  Quinn reminds us that so much of history is lost, even when we have  the records, because history is so very much more than facts...it is more  about context, interpretation, meaning to the contemporaries, all of which  pertains to the world view of the day...which world view necessarily is  different than the world view a few generations later.  Because our world  view today is so far removed from the Magic World View of colonial America,  it is nearly impossible for us to make sense of magic images and stories  that come to us from history; so we ignore them.  Quinn brings it all to  life (although at times in a very tedious manner) and helps us put on the  lenses that allow us to see what the world might look like when one lives  in a culture that is friendly toward, if not steeped in, a magic world  view.<br />As other reviewers have pointed out, there are times when Quinn is  frustrating.  I echo many of the remarks made below by other reviewers, and  add one more.  Among Quinns favorite subjects to beat to death is the issue  of whether or not Joseph Smith had access to rare, out of print occult  titles.  He spends page after page proving that various books were on sale  in Smith's neighborhood, or at a bookstore near by, or in a friend's  possession, or advertised in a newspaper, etc.  He beats this drum  practically throughout the entire book, and still, in my opinion, misses  the most important point.  Whether or not Joseph Smith actually read all of  these books, if they were important to the general understanding of his  occult interests, they were influential to the entire cutlure of which he  was a part, and contributed to the shared paradigm of all of those in his  day with like interests and similar beliefs.  He could be profoundly  influenced by books that he never read, or was not even aware of, just as  our culture is profoundly influenced by the Bible or Shakespeare, even  though so many have never actually read them. Pieces, quotes, and ideas  float throughout the culture, often without our ever even realizing their  source.  So it could easily have been with regard to Smith and his  understanding and awareness of magic topics, images, relics, etc. <br />My  only real criticism of the book is that it bogs down in tedious details,  when I believe that the paradigm, the big picture, is what matters most.   Since this is the definitive work on the subject (to date...I expect others  will follow), I would encourage anyone to read it, but you have to be  patient.  More importantly, you will only enjoy this book if you are  seeking a broader understanding of the context of Mormonism and Mormon  thought.  If you are not one to question &quot;authorized&quot; Church  history, if you are unwilling to wonder if there is more to Joseph Smith  than what he has told us, then I have some helpful advice...&quot;don't go  there.&quot;  Seekers of historical truth, those who recognize that history  matters in context, will appreciate this book for the powerful piece that  it is.	2000-05-24
US	49825333	R1352MRK4SWLA0	087421162X	358518174	John Doyle Lee	Books	5	21	23	N	N	A Reminder that Every Tale has Two Sides...	I am pleased to be the first reviewer of this book who is not a decendent of John D. Lee, yet I, too, must give the book highest marks.  While it is history, and a biography, it is as captivating as any novel, and a treat  for the immagination as well as the rational mind.  Full marks for the late  Ms. Brooks in her ability to weave together the elements that make the man,  her insight mostly derived from his own copious writings and those of his  faithful wives.  The result is a reasonably complete look at the complex  man, faithful to his dying moments in the Church and gospel he thought he  was defending, a look that includes his intimate thoughts, a sense of his  apparent egotism, his devotion to his multiple families, and the role that  his wives and children played in his life.  <br />There is much that I  appreciated about this book, not the least of which is the fact that Ms.  Brooks did not shy away from the possibility that Brigham Young sacrificed  J. D. Lee in a manner consistent with a Book of Mormon account, in which it  is stated by God that &quot;it is better that one man should perish, then a  whole nation dwindle in unbelief.&quot;  Lee himself implicates his  &quot;adoptive father,&quot; Brigham Young, in his farewell letter to his  wives.  At the same time, she does not for a moment lose the perspective of  the seige mentality, the war-time thinking of both the perpetrators of the  Mountain Meadow Massacre, and the leaders of the Church. Without this  context, it is easy to stand in self-rightous judgement of what hindsight  clearly dictates was a horrible act.  With that psycho/social context, the  fair-minded reader can at least admit that while John D. Lee was indeed a  participant in an evil day, he was not an evil man.  Far from it.  Indeed,  he may have paid the price with his life because he was in fact a man of  high principles, and utmost regard for the God who gave him life.  His  faith sustained him through remarkable hardship, and sustained him in his  own noble imprisonment and ultimatly his execution.<br />You will not be able  to read this book without a strong sense of compassion for his wives,  either.  They were called upon to endure extreme hardship, and appear to  have risen to the challenge.  From their march across the plains, to the  numerous times they were asked to open a new settlement, to eventually  living practically alone in Navajo country to fend for themselves, even to  birth children without so much as the help from an older daughter, these  were women of enormous faith, incredible fortitude, and proud devotion to a  man that their Church had marked as a scapegoat and sacrificial lamb.   <br />It is likely that decendents of the Fancher Party would read this book  with different emotions than I, but I found it to be highly stimulating and  engaging, both to the sensitivities and the mind.  It is a story of faith,  of perseverence, of work and sacrifice, and ultimately betrayal by a man's  dearest friends.  If the book is too forgiving of Lee for his role in the  Massacre at Mountain Meadows, it is only because his life was so much more  than that one, dark day.  The rest of his life was a labor of love, for his  God, his Prophet, his friends, his wives, his children, and for the  establishment of the Kingdom of God, of which he believed he was a key  builder, in partnership with his God and his prophets.	2000-04-20
US	49825333	R3VHFB502AITW0	0345384563	286200112	A History of God: The 4,000-Year Quest of Judaism, Christianity and Islam	Books	5	290	322	N	N	If this won't shake your thinking, nothing will!	A History of God was one of the most important books I've read.  Karen  Armstrong fearlessly, yet respectfully, traces the history of monotheistic  thought from its earliest conception to the present day, all in a readable,  lay-language book.  It doesn't get much better, in my opinion.  <br />However,  be cautioned.  If you are inclined to cling to old dogma, or frightened by  the possibility that God might not be exactly what you were taught in  Sunday School, then don't bother picking up this book.  It will haunt you.   On the other hand, if you are seeking a more clear picture of who God might  really be, if you are open to the possibility that our concept of Him has  evolved enormously since the days of Abraham, then this might be an  excellent read for you.<br />Besides a good history lesson, it is insightful  for the Western reader to gain an understanding of the  &quot;non-Christian&quot; monotheistic traditions, i.e. Judaism and Islam.   Armstrong does a wonderful (and contrary to some critics, I believe a FAIR)  job of explaining how both Christianity and later Islam branched off of the  Judaic traditions.  Above all, it places the evolution of the God-concept  into its cultural context, without which, our current God-concept is little  more than a wholesale belief in so much mythology.  <br />Be prepared to  think, to change your mind, and to emerge from the end of this book a  changed person.	2000-04-18
US	49825333	R2705OUT0AA0Z4	0062508865	527800309	Muhammad: A Biography of the Prophet	Books	5	156	208	N	N	Every Christian should read this!	Karen Armstrong scored big with Muhammad.  Having read her History of God, I read her biography of the Prophet believing I would be treated to some  genuine insight, and I was not disappointed.  I highly recommend this,  especially to Western readers!<br />Muhammad, his story, his religion, and his  people are among the least understood elements of world history to your  average Westerner.  The information we are bombarded with today portrays  Muslims as terrorists, anti-western, blood-thirsty savages.  This book  endeavors to release the Western mind from the bonds of ignorance and the  blinders of propaganda, and reveal a Prophet, and a people, with a real,  sometimes tragic and sometimes triumphant history, with a conclusion of  remarkable success.  Whether you agree with Muhammad or not, you will  finish this book appreciating his genius, his faith, his leadership, and  his accomplishments.  <br />Most importantly, you will read the story  elegantly portrayed within the context of the cultural dynamics of the  Arabia of Muhammad's day.  Without that context, it is easy to cast  Muhammad's actions as barbaric.  Additionally, Armstrong does a fine job of  demonstrating the demise of much of Muhammad's most original thinking by  zealous, but culturally constrained leaders who followed him (most notably  the emancipation of women).  <br />Because most Western Christians don't read  Arabic, we will never understand nor appreciate the Koran, Muhammad's  crowning achievement.  But with the help of Karen Armstrong, we can gain an  appreciation of the origin of that great work, and the meaning it has in  the lives of nearly a billion people in the world today.	2000-04-18
US	49825333	R3TCKO0P1A8XG9	1560850450	965256103	Things in Heaven and Earth: The Life and Times of Wilford Woodruff	Books	3	15	19	N	N	History Need Not Be So Dry	I'm afraid this was rather tedious reading.  While I can appreciate that a scholarly biographer may choose to merely stick to the facts as they are known regarding the life of their subject, still it is my personal feeling  that someone's life is far more important than the facts: what did that  life MEAN to others?  The biographer is, in my opinion, on safe ground when  they interpret the life of their subject and write the story that has  meaning for the author, not just a compilation of detailed facts.  That is  essentially all that Alexander has done with his treatment of the life of  Wilford Woodruff.  <br />The tragedy is that the story that occurred in the  Mormon &quot;kingdom&quot; during the life span of the 4th President of the  Church was anything but dry!  While I disagree with the author's assertion  that &quot;Woodruff was probably the 3rd most important Mormon after Joseph  Smith and Brigham Young,&quot; (I don't know how you could possibly  quantify the value of a man, and then rank them in some sort of Letterman's  Top Ten List...especially when you consider the incredible contributions of  other Mormons, including Sidney Rigdon, Hyrum Smith, the Pratt Brothers, as  well as some of the more notorious, such as John Bennett,) still, so very  much changed in Utah during his presidency that radically shaped the future  of the West, that the feel and meaning of the story should be TOLD, not  merely documented.  It was during the leadership era of Wilford Woodruff  that the Mormons finally joined the United States, which was in reality an  incredible shift in the paradigm of the Mormon hierarchy.  Plural Marriage,  one of two keystones to Mormon segregation, (the other being the notion of  theocratic inheritence of whatever land they happened to occupy), was  eliminated...more or less...during his leadership.  And the millenialism of  the Saints became considerably tempered.  Instead, Alexander chose to focus  on the breakup of the People's Party and theimportance of the tension then  between Mormon Democrats and Mormon Republicans.  To read this book, you  would think that was the biggest story in Woodruff's life.  I don't  disagree that it was important in shaping policy, but it wasn't the real  story.  Furthermore, you practically know nothing about his families as a  result of reading this book, only that he had four, plus a few divorced  wives, which you would think in the family orientation of this church that  these people would be a more significant subject of this book.  <br />The fact  of the matter is, Alexander has chosen to focus on the History of Utah and  the Church during the life of Wilford Woodruff, while mentioning Woodruff's  involvment, rather than focus on his life, while mentioning what was going  on in the church.  We know the history already, but tell us about the  Man!<br />Read the book, but don't expect to be kept on the edge of your seat,  shed any tears, or experience vicariously the joy and satisfaction of a  full life, well lived in the service of his fellow men, his country, and  his God.	2000-04-11
US	49825333	R3IY1Q16MBYDB9	087480440X	613145684	Orrin Porter Rockwell: Man of God, Son of Thunder	Books	4	37	37	N	N	The Wild Side of Mormondom	I thoroughly enjoyed this book!  Traditional LDS history paints a picture of Nauvoo and Salt Lake City as though they were the very seats of culture and industry.  The reality was, they were both on the edge of the frontier, and consequently, they tended to be rough places.  No one figured more  prominantly in the &quot;Wild West&quot; of the Mormon kingdom than Orrin  Porter Rockwell.<br />One of Schindler's significant contributions to the  landscape of Mormon history is the perspective of the &quot;regular  folks&quot; who were cowboys, farmers, and hunters who lived close to the  land, mixed with Shoshones, Utes, Gosiutes, Paiutes and others, and who  were engaged in a daily fight for survival.  Rockwell's life, while steeped  in Mormon theology, doctrine and experience, was also one of gunfighting,  saloons, Indian fighting, stagecoaches, the California Gold Rush, and  everything that is so quintessentially &quot;western.&quot;  I've read a  lot of Church history, and this is the first time I really got a flavor for  that element.<br />The difficulty with this book is that it still leaves you  wondering whether Rockwell was a saint, or a ruthless killer.  Unfortunately for history and historians, Rockwell was himself illiterate,  and so there is no personal record of his life and dealings.  On the other  hand, because of his reputation, there is much that was written that  portrayed him as a zealous destroyer, the mercinary of Joseph Smith and  Brigham Young. To Schindler's credit, he doesn't draw any conclusions on  the life of Rockwell...he leaves that difficult challenge up to you!<br />Regardless of who Rockwell was or wasn't, this is an engaging book that  addresses most of the notorious &quot;stories&quot; that veil Rockwell in  the mists of intrigue, mystery and wonder.  You'll gain a fresh perspective  on the rough-hewn life of pioneer times, the Wild Side of Mormondom!	2000-04-06
US	49825333	R2YC60ALIII6TV	0252062914	46432433	Mormon Enigma: Emma Hale Smith	Books	5	45	53	N	N	Brigham Should Have Backed Off...	This is the first book I've read that painted Emma Hale Smith for the remarkable person she likely was, rather than the demoness that Joseph Smith would have to &quot;descend into hell to recover,&quot; as Brigham  Young would have you believe.  Brigham had a very hard principle which he  either had to live without question, or abandon the Prophet to whom he had  sworn his undying devotion; that of plural marriage.  His biggest foe was  Emma Hale Smith.  Of all the characters in early Mormon history, few held  as much power to tople the practice of polygamy as Emma, and so Brigham and  the &quot;Twelve&quot; had to either abandon their martyred prophet, or his  wife.  The choice was simple.  Emma was left to receive the abuse and  criticism heaped upon her for standing firm for what she believed, just as  had other women of her day who couldn't abide by &quot;the Principle,&quot;  and who were likewise &quot;burned at the Mormon stake,&quot; figuratively  speaking (Sarah Pratt, wife of Orson comes most notably to mind.)  The  result has been 100 years of believing Emma to be a fallen saint...and I  argue, 100 years of harsh, misguided judgement.  Brigham should have backed  off, and so should the rest of us who followed him.<br />This book will give  the reader not only a glimpse at the heroics of Emma's life, but some  valuable insight into her zealous first husband, Joseph Smith.  Furthermore, it is early Mormon history written from a woman's perspective  (or at least more so than most, since the Bretheren were the predominant  historical force in the church), giving you insight into the remarkable  sacrifices that the women were called upon to make.  We marvel at the men  who willingly answered the call to serve missions afar, without purse or  scrip.  But what about their wives, whom they left in destitute and  diseased circumstances, with multiple mouths to feed, facing mob  attrocities, and often without a penny to their name?  They were left at  the mercies of the world and their neighbors, and for whatever reason, were  there, holding the pieces together (if they survived...) when their  husbands returned years later.  I could go on...<br />Avery and Tippets have  done a wonderful job of weaving the bits of information into a tale of  faith and fortitude.  It's difficult to guage, however, the influence of  their personal affinity for their subject and its impact on the flavor of  the book.  I suppose that's always the biographer's dilemma.  Nevertheless,  the book is well researched and thorough in its treatment of the First Lady  of Mormondom, and I highly recommend it for Latter Day Saint readers or  general history readers.of the world and their neighbors, and for whatever reason, were  there, holding the pieces together (if they survived...) when their  husbands returned years later.  I could go on...<br />Avery and Tippets have  done a wonderful job of weaving the bits of information into a tale of  faith and fortitude.  It's difficult to guage, however, the influence of  their personal affinity for their subject and its impact on the flavor of  the book.  I suppose that's always the biographer's dilemma.  Nevertheless,  the book is well researched and thorough in its treatment of the First Lady  of Mormondom, and I highly recommend it for Latter Day Saint readers or  general history readers.	2000-04-04
US	49825333	R3I0WAXNX5L0O3	156085118X	420085517	Joseph Smith: The First Mormon	Books	4	34	43	N	N	Objectivity is Not Possible...	The chore of any biographer is to attempt to portray their subject in as true a light as possible.  The problem lies in the reality that most people, especially the colorful characters that shape history, look so  different when cast under different lights.  None more so than Joseph  Smith.  Donna Hill tackles no small task in attempting a balanced look at  an extremely controversial figure, one whose name is had for divine praise  or demonic derision, but seldom anything disspationate.  What is important  is that she doesn't shy away from the tough topics including; the Smith  family's fascination with folk magic; money digging; polygamy; and the  Danites, yet leaves the reader free to draw their own conclusions.  For  instance, as she describes what many critics have called &quot;the Zion's  Camp fiasco,&quot; the reader is left to recognize the importance of the  journey, while understanding the tragic circumstances of its conclusion.   What she has done is describe the &quot;times and seasons&quot; of the  Prophet's life, while avoiding to a reasoble degree the temptation to cast  judgement on that life (although she tends to be considerably more  forgiving of Joseph Smith's shortcomings than is Fawn Brodie in &quot;No  Man Knows My History.&quot; On the other hand, she is far more objective  than Joseph Smith himself in his &quot;History of the Church.&quot;)  To  faithful followers of &quot;The First Mormon,&quot; it is essential to read  the book with an eye toward understanding the meaning of the life of Joseph  Smith, rather than getting caught up in the possibility that he was a  fallible human being.  To the non-Mormon, it is important to understand the  times and circumstances that produced a man of extraordinary talent and  vision, which has led to the establishment of a world religion that is  destined to play a role in shaping the future of our civilization.  The  topic, Joseph Smith, is no trivial matter, and understanding him is no  trivial undertaking.  Ms. Hill has done as admirable a job as any I know  of.	2000-03-28
US	49825333	R1BTC6QL83RKFQ	0252012968	296317805	Brigham Young: American Moses	Books	4	9	14	N	N	Great Place to Begin Understanding Brigham	While Arrington was somewhat constrained by his prominent position as Official Church Historian, nevertheless, he has done an admirable job of straddling the fence between perpetuating mythology and misunderstanding &quot;the point&quot; of Brigham Young.  Reading this book, you gain an  appreciation for the zeal, the power, the faith, and the leadership of this  most remarkable character, without missing the fact that he was a human  being, too.  Absent an appreciation for Brigham Young, you do not  understand the nearly 1/5 of the continental United States that was settled  according to the policy and dictates of this singularly peculiar person.   Arrington shows you the &quot;man&quot; that the Mormons have dubbed  &quot;prophet,&quot; comparable in every way to Moses of the Old Testament.   I recommend to the reader a &quot;balancing book&quot; that contrasts  Brigham to other leaders of the day; The Last Pioneer: John Taylor, A  Mormon Prophet.  Between the two books, you will have a fair idea of who  Brigham really was.	2000-03-24
US	49825333	R1UWK0BPPFM8TO	1560851155	133377847	The Last Pioneer: John Taylor, a Mormon Prophet	Books	5	16	17	N	N	The Gentleman Comes Alive	It is often difficult to trust the credibility of a religious leader's biography when written by one of his descendents.  Nevertheless, Samual W. Taylor has made every effort to be fair to both Mormons and non-mormons as he explores the complicated times and issues surrounding the establishment  of the Great Basin Kingdom of the Latter Day Saints.  Some of his insights  were paradigm-shifting, particularly shedding insight on the mindset of the  men who were willing to deceive the world and live underground in defiance  of the law of the land, in order to abide &quot;the principles of  heaven.&quot;  This book brings to life one of the lesser-discussed  prophets of early Mormondom, and is a must-read for those interested in a  fair, but gentle treatment of &quot;The Last Pioneer.&quot;:	2000-03-24
