US	49821281	R2RXJP4PVLL771	0743477219	991690611	Daddy's Little Girl	Books	4	1	2	N	Y	A pretty good outing here for Mary Higgins Clark	Ellie Cavanaugh is an investigative reporter for an Atlanta newspaper.  When she was just seven years old, her sister Andrea was brutally murdered by Rob Westerfield of the prominent Westerfield family in Westchester, New York.  She was the one who found her sisters body and gave testimony to send Westerfield to prison.<br />Twenty-two years have passed and Rob Westerfield is about to be paroled. During the original murder investigation, there were two additional suspects in Andrea's murder.  Westerfield is now determined to clear his name and pin the murder on one of the two other suspects.<br />Returning to Westchester, Ellie Cavanaugh creates a website and begins writing a book that will once again clearly define Westerfields guilt and also prove he was the one and only true suspect.  During her quest for answers, she places herself in harm's way and begins to uncover hidden information and dark secrets that tie in to her sister's murder.  As the pieces of the puzzle fall into place and Ellie gets ever closer to cornering the killer, it leads to an intense and inevitable showdown.<br />Being a fan of Mary Higgins Clark and having read almost all of her novels, I was a little surprised at her writing Daddy's Little Girl in the first person.  I'd never seen this before in her other books.  In my opinion, this writing style worked well here.  Identifying with main characters went a little deeper than usual and the plot seemed to move at a faster and more involved pace.  This might not be one of her best novels, but it's still a good read and Mary Higgins Clark shows she still has the formula for producing a suspenseful and entertaining mystery novel.	2004-04-18
US	49821281	R1V2SQ6ALKLHT3	0399150412	196052103	White Death (NUMA Files)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Cussler has written better but this one isn't that bad	In all honesty, I have to start out by saying I'm a little prejudiced toward Clive Cussler's Dirk Pitt novels as they were the genesis of NUMA and all are really good books.  On the other hand though, the NUMA Files series are making a continually impressive push to level the playing field and they offer almost as much reading pleasure.  Cussler's addition of White Death is no exception.<br />NUMA's men of action on the Special Assignments Team, Kurt Austin and Joe Zavala are faced with confronting and eventually stopping a massive, global corporation whose aims are bent on manipulating and destroying a vast amount of marine life in the oceans.  Along for the ride and offering token assistance to NUMA is a radical environmentalist group who has already tasted the wrath of this rogue corporation that stops at nothing to eliminate competition and silence anyone who pries into their activities.  Using the ever familiar combination of daring, improvisation, and death defying feats of skill only James Bond could love, the NUMA team defies obstacles and mayhem around each and every corner to ensure victory in their quest.<br />The above synopsis is the brunt of the plot without giving too much away.  There still remains quite a bit of history and adventure that is decently satisfying throughout the novel.  White Death is generally well written and moves along at a good pace making for a quick and exciting read.  Clive Cussler seems to have his finger on the pulse of his fans and continues to generate a nice amount of appeal in his NUMA Files series.  Dirk Pitt is still the man to beat but Kurt Austin is closing in.	2003-12-03
US	49821281	R2W3NN8MOBERQ0	0312983212	82923820	Saucer	Books	4	4	9	N	N	A close encounter with contemporary science-fiction......	After reading Flight of the Intruder and Final Flight by Stephen Coonts, I came across Saucer and thought that the science-fiction angle might be interesting.  Allowing for a mildly intriguing plot and some interesting creativity, it wasn't half bad.<br />Our protagonist, Rip Cantrell, is a a seismic surveyor working in the Sahara desert where he discovers a flying saucer encased in rock as it has been buried for centuries after being subjected to the elements.  Information concerning the saucer doesn't remain secret for long and now the United States government, the Libyan government, and unscrupulous Australian billionaire Roger Hedrick are all scrambling to take control of the saucer.<br />Finding an ally in Charlotte Pine, a test pilot working with a UFO investigation team, Rip Cantrell narrowly escapes disaster when they both fly out of the desert in the saucer in search of a place to hide the ship and protect its secrets.  Upon returning to the United States and stashing the ship away, the lull in activity proves to be short lived.<br />The billionaire Roger Hedrick kidnaps Charlotte Pine while simultaneously stealing the saucer and forcing her to fly it to his Australian estate.  Hedrick has grand plans to auction the ship off to any county who wants to exploit its technology.  Rip Cantrell is now faced with the harrowing dilemma of rescuing Charlotte Pine and re-aquiring the saucer while other foreign governments attempt the same thing and at all costs.<br />In his departure from a mainly military theme, Stephen Coonts makes a worthy attempt at good action and adventure in this book.  Although having some corny dialogue between the characters and some over the top (even for fiction) scenarios in the narrative, it doesn't totally detract from the book having some decent appeal to it.  If you have a few hours to kill, pick up Saucer and give it a read.  You might just like it.	2003-07-22
US	49821281	R1CPQG7SJZZW2N	0425188310	991985349	Shadow Warriors: Inside The Special Forces (Commander Series)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Long on detail but still a good read......	The Special Operations forces are those in the military rarely talked about and almost never noticed.  For the missions they are asked to perform and places they have to go, it's probably better this way.  To get an understanding, though, of how they came to be and what is entailed in their training and ideology, we have Tom Clancy's Shadow Warriors.<br />Beginning with World War two and moving through successive decades, a picture is painted of the evolution of Special Operations including various units such as the Army's Green Berets and Rangers, the Navy SEALS, Air Force special operatives, and other elite teams.  In conjunction with this, readers are given descriptions of various high profile missions conducted over the years to include Operation Just Cause in Panama, Operation Urgent Fury in Grenada, the aborted hostage rescue outside of Tehran, Iran in 1980, and the Achille Lauro cruise ship hostage situation.<br />At just over 500 pages long, Shadow Warriors does a credible job in describing portions of Special Operations that many aren't aware of but if you're an avid fan of this topic, you'll probably be left wanting for more.  As with many Tom Clancy books I've read, he relegates many passages to overly-detailed information that almost lapses into mediocrity.  Once you get past these areas though, the book then continues to carry itself well once again.<br />Although maybe not for everyone, Shadow Warriors is still an engaging and quite interesting look at those military personnel that do a job that others don't want and others can't do considering what the missions entail.  This book is also a fitting tribute to all those who died over the years giving everything they had when it was needed most.	2003-07-22
US	49821281	R2BQXLF30S311M	0891417990	508222039	Dancing with the Dragon	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Two thumbs up for Dancing With The Dragon......	In what amounts to a decent mix of cloak & dagger, high-tech weaponry, and modern day warfare, Dancing With The Dragon presents an appealing adventure story with slight undertones to events that could actually happen.<br />Upon losing several military aircraft to puzzling explosions, the U.S. president assigns a deep cover troubleshooting team to investigate the losses.  As evidence mounts and answers are revealed, the U.S. government learns of a new weapon system possessed by China that has frightening potential.  Compounding problems already at hand, China demonstrates its power in a military play for Taiwan while simultaneously wresting control of the strategic Panama Canal.  Forcing America to divide its military assets to control both conflicts, escalating tensions push inexorably toward a nuclear showdown.<br />Dancing With The Dragon is an entertaining read from start to finish and delivers the goods for those looking for an action packed and well written novel.	2003-07-02
US	49821281	R33F60CZ7VU0WN	0425190641	440578728	Fire Ice (The NUMA Files)	Books	5	12	16	N	N	Fire Ice - a fun and engrossing book	In his third installment in the NUMA Files series, Clive Cussler delivers another exciting adventure packed with action, intrigue, and dangerous exploits.<br />Emanating from the Soviet Union, a mining and shipping tycoon has designs on overthrowing the current Soviet government believing himself to be the Tsar of Russia.  To avoid the interference of the United States, he orchestrates a plan to create a massive disaster that would affect a large part of the U.S. eastern seaboard.  On the continental shelf are pockets of a highly combustible compound known as methane hydrate or Fire Ice.  Detonating this material would cause tidal waves sufficient enough to destroy major cities.  Unbeknownst to NUMA officials and the American government alike, an even more insidious plan is in the works and time is fading fast to avert a catastrophic event that could have global implications.<br />Fire Ice is a fast paced and very entertaining read that will be sure to please Clive Cussler fans and anyone who enjoys a solid, well written adventure tale.	2003-06-20
US	49821281	R1GCKJJCVT70BR	1557506949	402818654	Honor Bound: American Prisoners of War in Southeast Asia, 1961-1973	Books	5	16	17	N	Y	The phenomenal history of American POW's in Vietnam.....	After reading many individual POW memoirs and similar material, it was immediately evident to me that Honor Bound is the premier and defining work on American POW's in Vietnam.  For its sheer scope and immensity, this is the best reference material ever composed on this subject.<br />Beginning with history of French occupation in Vietnam and the follow on role of United States involvement, an intimate portrayal is drawn of every aspect of captivity faced by U.S. personnel.  In minute detail,  Northern and Southern Vietnamese POW camps are put under the microscope revealing the harrowing physical and psychological experiences that affected U.S. servicemen in appalling conditions which equated to a daily battle for survival.  Also examined is the known information on captivity in Laos which continues to be controversial even today due to the unknown fates of many Americans still missing in that country.<br />Complimenting the brilliant narrative which leaves nothing to the imagination, Honor Bound contains dozens of excellent photographs, prison maps, generous footnotes, and several appendixes containing Vietnam war data and prisoner information.  This book is a lasting tribute to patriots, heroes, and even legends who gave and maintained their very best in continual times of the absolute worst.  I highly recommend Honor Bound to everyone interested in accounts of POW captivity.  A superb, powerful, and very satisfying reading experience.	2003-06-18
US	49821281	R3AWN8S86X5I5P	0595138888	598596886	P.O.W.: A Definitive History of the American Prisoner-of-War Experience in Vietnam, 1964-1973	Books	5	25	25	N	Y	A monumental account of POW captivity.......	Researched over a 9 year time span using information gleaned from hundreds of interviews from Vietnam war POW's, this extensive saga of captivity is truly outstanding in its depth.<br />John G. Hubbell not only relates the stories of high profile POW's from North Vietnam, he explores the many aspects and rigors faced by U.S. servicemen in the brutal Southern Vietnamese prison camps.  In helping the reader to truly understand the entire experience, this being a cautionary note to everyone, torture methods suffered by our U.S. servicemen are described very graphically throughout the text and may be difficult to read about at times.<br />Included in the superbly written and well researched narrative are maps of the various prison compounds, photographs of POW's and their captors, and the entire list of repatriated servicemen at Operation Homecoming in 1973.<br />\\"P.O.W. - A definitive history of the American Prisoner of War Experience, 1964-1973\\" is a very comprehensive and powerful study that makes for a lasting, memorable, and emotional reading experience.  Upon recommending this book to everyone with interests in POW captivity, I would also like to suggest the brilliant and epic work \\"Honor Bound - American Prisoners of War in Southeast Asia, 1961-1973\\".	2003-06-02
US	49821281	R3HPCW2FGUBUHV	0671871188	875168358	Inside Hanoi's Secret Archives	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	The end of the MIA mystery?	For two decades following the Vietnam war, ill-fated attempts by the United States to obtain conclusive evidence concerning the fate of hundreds of POW/MIA's from the Vietnam war finally found success.  In a bold and daring espionage mission, former U.N. refugee officer Theodore G. Schweitzer was the acting agent for the Defense Intelligence Agency (DIA) in what later became known as Operation Swamp Ranger.<br />Beginning in March of 1992 and lasting several months, Schweitzer was granted access to Vietnamese war archives that held a voluminous amount of information on U.S. servicemen that were missing in action and others that were held as prisoners of war.  Vietnam, up until this point, had strenuously denied for years that they had any useful data on missing servicemen and they blatantly withheld documents that would solve many discrepancy cases on unknown losses of U.S. personnel.  Using previously unreleased photographs, meticulously annotated files,  and physical evidence, Operation Swamp Ranger completely exposed Vietnam's attempts to bury the POW/MIA issue over the years.  Although only suspected by the U.S. government, Vietnam's General Political Directorate (GPD) finally admitted that many U.S. servicemen were killed in cold blood.<br />Operation Swamp Ranger also proved to be useful in the aspect that it helped dispel the widespread theory that Americans had been abandoned by the U.S. government after repatriation of POW's in 1973.  Furthermore, scams and other fraudulent activities aimed at the grieving families of MIA's were exposed and contradicted by evidence gained from Hanoi's archives.  Lastly, there appears to be no conclusive facts to date which could verify that there are actual live POW's still held in Vietnam today.<br />Although limited cooperation with the Vietnamese government regarding POW/MIA's faltered after revelations from Operation Swamp Ranger became known to the public at large, the U.S. government still claimed a large victory in what amounts to a monumental breakthrough in the enduring POW/MIA controversy.  Unfortunately, this long and arduous journey does not have a happy ending.  Not yet, anyway.  Even as the Defense POW/MIA Office (DPMO) continues to negotiate, haggle, bargain, cajole, and mediate with Vietnam regarding additional unreleased material they still hold, there are no clear indications of just how much further progress will be accomplished in the future.  As stated in the author's narrative, communist archives are notoriously known for disinformation and forgeries and nothing in Vietnam is ever straightforward or simple.<br />Inside Hanoi's Secret Archives is a remarkable investigation into previously hidden wartime data.  Generously footnoted and offering revealing photographs, this is a fascinating and memorable reading experience.  Anyone having the slightest or even most demanding questions concerning the ongoing legacy of missing U.S. servicemen in Vietnam, I would enthusiastically recommend this book to you and to everyone in general.what amounts to a monumental breakthrough in the enduring POW/MIA controversy.  Unfortunately, this long and arduous journey does not have a happy ending.  Not yet, anyway.  Even as the Defense POW/MIA Office (DPMO) continues to negotiate, haggle, bargain, cajole, and mediate with Vietnam regarding additional unreleased material they still hold, there are no clear indications of just how much further progress will be accomplished in the future.  As stated in the author's narrative, communist archives are notoriously known for disinformation and forgeries and nothing in Vietnam is ever straightforward or simple.<br />Inside Hanoi's Secret Archives is a remarkable investigation into previously hidden wartime data.  Generously footnoted and offering revealing photographs, this is a fascinating and memorable reading experience.  Anyone having the slightest or even most demanding questions concerning the ongoing legacy of missing U.S. servicemen in Vietnam, I would enthusiastically recommend this book to you and to everyone in general.	2003-05-26
US	49821281	R131PX2X0FL89V	0895261405	647115467	Dereliction of Duty: The Eyewitness Account of How President Bill Clinton Compromised America's Long-Term National Security	Books	5	26	38	N	Y	A decent work on our damaged National Security	In a period spanning two years from May of 1996 to May of 1998, Lieutenant Colonel Robert Patterson presents readers with a very candid and objective look at just how precarious our National Security was during the Clinton administration.  In a word, frightening.<br />To be quite blunt, it is not far from the truth to say that Bill Clinton decimated the United States military during his presidential term.  Downsizing units and assets from all service branches virtually assured that our military could not support engagements on two different fronts at the same time and placed our military strength in a questionable perspective.<br />Not being someone who is afraid to show his true colors, Bill Clinton openly regarded the military with contempt and demonstrated this time and again while in office.  As a personal military aide to the president, author Robert Patterson was a perfect eyewitness to rude and discourteous behavior afforded to U.S. servicemen by the Clinton administration.  Many things said and done in and out of the White House were ethically and morally debased and, at various times, completely irresponsible.<br />Regarding the safety of the United States as a whole, the Clinton administration presented a cavalier attitude as to the standards we should have employed to protect our own.  One glaring example of a missed opportunity was the abject failure to act on reliable and timely intelligence data regarding the removal of Usama Bin Laden from the terrorist scene.  Upon failing this, the United States and other countries would eventually endure many tragic events perpetrated by Usama Bin Laden and his maniacal Al-qaeda organization which continues to haunt us to this day.<br />Dereliction of Duty is a well written and matter of fact narrative detailing our National Security status during a time of severe crisis and the dubious actions of the Clinton bureaucracy.  Author Robert Patterson does not attack Bill Clinton personally but keeps pace nicely in an honest and straightforward presentation of his material that makes for a satisfying reading experience.  There is no doubt that some of the content in this book will probably anger and disturb you but it is nevertheless highly recommended to everyone being that Americans really should know what Bill Clinton had a hand in doing to our country and how repercussions from his mistakes continue to affect us even today.onest and straightforward presentation of his material that makes for a satisfying reading experience.  There is no doubt that some of the content in this book will probably anger and disturb you but it is nevertheless highly recommended to everyone being that Americans really should know what Bill Clinton had a hand in doing to our country and how repercussions from his mistakes continue to affect us even today.	2003-05-20
US	49821281	R1O5HDBWE4VWUA	0345446968	780048428	The Raid: The Son Tay Prison Rescue Mission	Books	5	13	13	N	Y	The mother of all rescues.......	On November 21st, 1970, a rescue mission would be launched inside North Vietnam that would eventually gain status as being possibly the most incredible operation ever conducted during the Vietnam war.<br />The culmination of months of grueling planning and training, intensive coordination through military channels, extensive secrecy, and special operations wizardry would lead to the daring raid on the Son Tay POW camp just 20 short miles outside of Hanoi.  So well prepared was the team that after the raid's accomplishment, no lives were lost and everyone returned safely after just 26 minutes on the ground.  Everyone except U.S. POW's, that is, who were unfortunately not at the POW compound being that it had been abandoned only months previously.  Information discovered as to why the Son Tay facility was empty would prove to be both revealing and disturbing to the raid planners and executers.<br />In assessing the aftermath of the mission itself, although deemed a failure by the mainstream media and squabbled over by Congress, the military, and intelligence agencies, positive aspects would eventually come to light to justify the raid a success after all.  Unknown to many outside the purview of the POW's themselves, the raid was an eye opener to the North Vietnamese who now fully realized that America would defy the greatest of odds to repatriate their POW's and show them that they were not forgotten.  The Son Tay rescue mission was a serious morale booster for our U.S. captives and also hastened their improved treatment from their North Vietnamese jailors.<br />Benjamin F. Schemmer has written a fascinating and in-depth study into one of the most sensational rescue missions ever accomplished in the history of warfare.  Richly detailed and researched, included are photographs, maps, and appendixes with a multitude of statistics and operational facts.  Whether just a casual reader or an avid fan of Vietnam era history, The Raid is an excellent book from start to finish.  For those readers interested in the complete story of POW rescues in Vietnam, I would highly recommend the book \\"Code Name Bright Light: The Untold Story of POW Rescue Efforts During the Vietnam War\\" by George J. Veith..  For those readers interested in the complete story of POW rescues in Vietnam, I would highly recommend the book \\"Code Name Bright Light: The Untold Story of POW Rescue Efforts During the Vietnam War\\" by George J. Veith.	2003-05-15
US	49821281	RFCKE6E6GBPVH	0440226503	368067060	Code-Name Bright Light: The Untold Story of U.S. POW Rescue Efforts During the Vietnam War	Books	5	17	17	N	Y	A tremendous work on U.S. POW rescue and recovery.......	Code Name Bright Light is a fascinating and highly revealing look into rescue operations in Vietnam performed under the auspices of the Joint Personnel Recovery Center (JPRC) during the longest war ever fought by the United States.<br /><br />In a six year period, more than 125 rescue operations would be launched to recover U.S. prisoners of war. Attempts to retrieve U.S. servicemen would also be tried by ransoms and prisoner exchanges. The latter methods were minimally successful at best due to the dismal cooperation from the North Vietnamese government and their unwillingness to recognize humanitarian overtures. The actual rescue attempts themselves were outstanding examples of bravery, courage, and audacity in the most harrowing of situation but were also mired in endless problems.<br /><br />Rescue teams would suffer the indignity of inter-service rivalries and competition, mediocre intelligence information, numerous bureaucratic breakdowns, compromised missions, and bad luck in many cases. Much of this would lead to slow response times to initiate raids on POW compounds which in turn produced many near misses when trying to extricate POW's. On countless occasions, rescue personnel would assault POW camps only to find that prisoners and camp cadre had relocated to new areas only hours before. Although some missions conducted were successful, they would also be bittersweet at the same time. The JPRC teams, during their tenure in Vietnam, were able to rescue hundreds of South Vietnamese POW's but were unsuccessful in ever freeing any living Americans held in confinement.<br /><br />Leaving no stone unturned, geographically speaking, George J. Veith covers the entire spectrum of Vietnam regarding rescue efforts with serious emphasis placed on Laos which has always been, and continues to be today, highly controversial concerning Americans that are missing in action in that country. In addition, Code Name Bright Light uncovers further high profile operations and rescue missions such as the Son Tay POW camp raid, Operation Thunderhead, the Bat-21 incident, and the notorious Lima Site 85 in Laos.<br />George J. Veith has composed a meticulous and brilliant narrative in Code Name Bright Light which probably deserves recognition for being one of the finest books ever written about the Vietnam war. For those interested in this subject matter, this book is immensely satisfying and comes highly recommended.ns such as the Son Tay POW camp raid, Operation Thunderhead, the Bat-21 incident, and the notorious Lima Site 85 in Laos. <br />George J. Veith has composed a meticulous and brilliant narrative in Code Name Bright Light which probably deserves recognition for being one of the finest books ever written about the Vietnam war. For those interested in this subject matter, this book is immensely satisfying and comes highly recommended.	2003-05-12
US	49821281	RKZX4S3RUIIXY	0788197347	368067060	Code-Name Bright Light: The Untold Story of U. S. POW Rescue Efforts During the Vietnam War	Books	5	1	1	N	Y	A tremendous work on U.S. POW rescue and recovery....	Code Name Bright Light is a fascinating and highly revealing look into rescue operations in Vietnam performed under the auspices of the Joint Personnel Recovery Center (JPRC) during the longest war ever fought by the United States.<br />In a six year period, more than 125 rescue operations would be launched to recover U.S. prisoners of war.  Attempts to retrieve U.S. servicemen would also be tried by ransoms and prisoner exchanges.  The latter methods were minimally successful at best due to the dismal cooperation from the North Vietnamese government and their unwillingness to recognize humanitarian overtures.  The actual rescue attempts themselves were outstanding examples of bravery, courage, and audacity in the most harrowing of situation but were also mired in endless problems.<br />Rescue teams would suffer the indignity of inter-service rivalries and competition, mediocre intelligence information, numerous bureaucratic breakdowns, compromised missions, and bad luck in many cases.  Much of this would lead to slow response times to initiate raids on POW compounds which in turn produced many near misses when trying to extricate POW's.  On countless occasions, rescue personnel would assault POW camps only to find that prisoners and camp cadre had relocated to new areas only hours before.  Although some missions conducted were successful, they would also be bittersweet at the same time.  The JPRC teams, during their tenure in Vietnam, were able to rescue hundreds of South Vietnamese POW's but were unsuccessful in ever freeing any living Americans held in confinement.<br />Leaving no stone unturned, geographically speaking, George J. Veith covers the entire spectrum of Vietnam regarding rescue efforts with serious emphasis placed on Laos which has always been, and continues to be today, highly controversial concerning Americans that are missing in action in that country.  In addition, Code Name Bright Light uncovers further high profile operations and rescue missions such as the Son Tay POW camp raid, Operation Thunderhead, the Bat-21 incident, and the notorious Lima Site 85 in Laos.<br />George J. Veith has composed a meticulous and brilliant narrative in Code Name Bright Light which probably deserves recognition for being one of the finest books ever written about the Vietnam war.  For those interested in this subject matter, this book is immensely satisfying and comes highly recommended.s such as the Son Tay POW camp raid, Operation Thunderhead, the Bat-21 incident, and the notorious Lima Site 85 in Laos.<br />George J. Veith has composed a meticulous and brilliant narrative in Code Name Bright Light which probably deserves recognition for being one of the finest books ever written about the Vietnam war.  For those interested in this subject matter, this book is immensely satisfying and comes highly recommended.	2003-05-12
US	49821281	RBTPZEBRXFUCZ	0393041832	967454060	The Bush Dyslexicon: Observations on a National Disorder	Books	5	32	36	N	Y	A grammatical comedy (with a deeper message)........	Early on in The Bush Dyslexicon, it is made apparent to readers that although George Bush is the featured target of choice for scrutiny, he certainly is not the first president we've had that suffers from poor speaking abilities or other illiteracy problems.  It just so happens that George Bush's afflictions are more readily noticeable and profound than those of our past leaders.<br />The Bush Dyslexicon is not only a collection of Bush's grammatical disasters, it is also a biography of sorts revealing his ascent to the White House which is quite profound, or depressing, depending on your point of view.  Being a product of Yale University, you would expect Bush to be a highly educated and proficient leader under normal circumstances.  In reality, much information about Bush is not normal.  Never rising above mediocre status as a student, far from being well read and informed, and flaunting his disdain for education in general, it is not hard to imagine how he has become immersed in his own illiterate and dyslexic world.  Even more disconcerting is the fact that Bush doesn't even appear to care that he can't speak intelligibly on anything.<br />As Mark Miller depicts in his book, when Bush does speak, you are reminded as a reader to look closely at what our president is actually saying.  In delivering his messages and statements on many different subjects, it is apparent that Bush is quite comfortable being insincere, hypocritical, uncompassionate, forgetful, and just plain uncaring in a lot of ways.  This doesn't say much in hopes for a better democracy and better leadership.<br />Throughout this book, I found many of George Bush's quotes to be quite funny while other quotes could be labeled as bizarre, cruel, or downright meaningless.  Somewhere along the way during your passage through this book, you begin to realize that it is not so funny anymore and you take stock of your president and your government and understand that the whole situation is in a very bad way.<br />The Bush Dyslexicon, nevertheless, is a very well written and detailed narrative on not only George Bush, but also the sad state of our union, the divisive media machine that hurts us more than it helps us, and our democracy which is badly in need of repair.  This book is highly recommended to all readers who want to know the real George Bush and what he is really about..<br />The Bush Dyslexicon, nevertheless, is a very well written and detailed narrative on not only George Bush, but also the sad state of our union, the divisive media machine that hurts us more than it helps us, and our democracy which is badly in need of repair.  This book is highly recommended to all readers who want to know the real George Bush and what he is really about.	2003-05-07
US	49821281	R25BKKTY8YSSIF	1555716237	925015149	A Code to Keep: The True Story of America's Longest-Held Civilian POW in Vietnam (Hellgate Memories Series)	Books	5	30	31	N	Y	The portrayal of a real hero.......	Former marine pilot Ernest C. Brace was employed as a U.S. contract pilot for USAID, flying in Laos supporting Vietnam war efforts, when his airstrip was overrun by enemy forces in May of 1965 and he was taken captive.<br />In his initial 3 years of captivity in Laos, Brace would be held alternately by Pathet Lao and North Vietnamese troops.  Suffering inhuman conditions and being caged like an animal, he would end up attempting 3 daring escapes earning him brutal beatings and subsequent injuries that would affect him the rest of his life.<br />Upon being transferred to North Vietnam, Ernest Brace would continue his last four and a half years of imprisonment in the Hanoi Hilton, Plantation, and Briar Patch prison compounds.  While confined in these locations, though not obligated to do so, he honorably followed the U.S. serviceman's code of conduct earning him the respect and admiration of all the American prisoners he was with.<br />Although never tortured like other POW's, Brace would risk this many times as he became a major junction for communications between prisoners which helped boost morale and also heightened resistance to captors.  Offered early release due to his civilian status, he declined with the intention of only going home when the sum total of American servicemen were also released.<br />Upon repatriation from Vietnam in 1973, after almost 8 years in captivity (four and a half of those years in solitary confinement), Brace would find his return triumphant and bittersweet at the same time.  Learning that his wife had remarried during his imprisonment and spending a full year in hospital visits to repair his injured body, he would eventually find success, happiness, and prosperity in the years to follow.<br />Ernest C. Brace, the longest held civilian POW of the Vietnam war, is a true American hero in every sense of the word and is an outstanding example of how patriotism, loyalty, courage, and inspiration are brought out in a person.  So much so that he was awarded the highest civilian award given by the Department of Defense for his actions during confinement in Vietnam.<br />A Code To Keep is a well written and remarkable narrative on POW captivity and comes highly recommended to everyone.t he was awarded the highest civilian award given by the Department of Defense for his actions during confinement in Vietnam.<br />A Code To Keep is a well written and remarkable narrative on POW captivity and comes highly recommended to everyone.	2003-05-05
US	49821281	R2A8DH6DLF6DCD	0345314603	890239476	Five Years to Freedom: The True Story of a Vietnam POW	Books	5	72	75	N	Y	Intrepid survival in the brutal jungles of Vietnam.......	Special Forces Lieutenant James N. Rowe was sent to Vietnam in 1963 as an advisor with the Military Assistance and Advisory Group (MAAG) to help train the South Vietnamese army.  Early on in his tour, Rowe was captured by the Vietcong during a harrowing fire fight and became a prisoner of war for 5 horrible years.<br />Held deep in Southern Vietnam, Lieutenant Rowe would be confined in bamboo cages with no protection from the elements and suffered continuous bouts of dysentery, beri-beri, and fungus infections throughout his confinement.  Medical care was practically non-existent and only became available when it suited his captors needs and whims.<br />During the initial years of captivity, Rowe would be confined with other Americans at his camp.  He and other POW's would be witness to 3 fellow soldiers starving to death while the Vietcong offered no useful assistance to help save lives.<br />Subjected to years of political indoctrination from camp cadre and propaganda from Hanoi radio broadcasts, Rowe was psychologically tormented and abused.  Adding to his further misery was that remaining American captives being held with him were released after 4 years leaving him completely alone and isolated for the remainder of his incarceration.<br />After several unsuccesful escape attempts, Rowe finally succeded in evading his captors in late 1968 and was rescued after signalling an American helicopter.<br />Five Years to Freedom is a very graphic account of jungle captivity and all the horrors associated with it.  This book is also a story of incredible courage, strength, endurance, and bravery.  Very well written and inspirational, this book is perhaps one of the finest accounts of POW captivity ever written.	2003-04-24
US	49821281	R1V44H45CRUV09	0609606905	640657701	Sex, Lies, and Headlocks: The Real Story of Vince McMahon and the World Wrestling Federation	Books	5	18	24	N	Y	The squared circle is exposed.......	Sex, Lies, and Headlocks is perhaps one of the most revealing narratives ever composed on the subject of professional wrestling.  The authors have laid bare much material about the business that was once considered inside information and not for public consumption.<br />In effect, the reader is treated to a fascinating back-stage look into how Sports Entertainment emerged from humble beginnings into a corporate and television empire.<br />Centering around the World Wrestling Federation (WWF) dynasty is Vince McMahon, the company owner, with him being an essential focal point in the book.  Virtually no stone is left unturned in the revelations of how be bought the company from his father and used, sometimes ruthlessly, whatever business tactics he needed to buy out his competition and solidify his domination in the wrestling market.<br />Not without its myriad problems during its rise to greatness, the WWF would absorb many situations that pushed it close to failure on several occasions.  Among some incidents would be rampant steroid use by wrestlers and revealing sex scandals in the 1980s.  Rebounding from this and moving into the 1990s, Vince McMahon would eventually go head to head with media mogul Ted Turner regarding their many ugly battles to ruin each other and gain domination in the cable television market.<br />Shifting into the late 1990s and approaching the new millennium, the WWF would finally begin its eventual rise to the top through perseverance and shrewd business dealings that have made it the sole professional wrestling powerhouse they are today.<br />Sex, Lies, and Headlocks is a very well written and researched book and is probably the closest look you will ever get to truly knowing and understanding the WWF's history and its secrets.  For all fans of Sports Entertainment, this book is a real treat and comes highly recommended.	2003-04-20
US	49821281	R1VY0KVML5YK4M	0452283914	569076996	The Best Democracy Money Can Buy	Books	5	96	107	N	Y	The truth comes out at last........	No matter what your political or religious affiliations may be, the information in \\"The Best Democracy Money Can Buy\\" affects everyone in the United States and elsewhere or possibly will sometime in the future.  It certainly appears that the global elite and those who control the monetary standard of life leave no stone unturned in their wicked pursuits and show no remorse from its adverse effects on the common populace.<br />Early on in the book, the presidential election of 2000 (focusing on Florida) is put under the microscope with some dramatic revelations.  Thousands of registered U.S. voters were denied their right to vote, many of them African-Americans.  A thorough explanation is well detailed to show the reader how this occurred.  Obstruction of civil rights and bias immediately come to mind coupled with the fact that statistically, African-Americans in Florida predominantly vote democratic.  Coincidence?  Not likely.<br />Farther along, the book describes how the Bush family has indeed been linked with the Bin-Laden family (not Osama himself) in Saudi Arabia regarding business ventures.  Not for public knowledge of course, the presidential administration ordered the Department of Justice (FBI) to steer clear of any revealing investigations concerning this match not made in heaven.  The sum total, to a point, is that the United States may have missed out on critically valuable information regarding terrorism.<br />Rounding out this review, chapter 4 of the book gives you a taste of the heinous activities of the IMF (International Monetary Fund).  Here's a group that likes to throw third world and even developed countries into chaos with outrageous financial policies and procedures.  One example is privatizing water and power structures and then financially bleeding consumers to death with exaggerated fees.  Another that I found most distasteful was in Tanzania.  A relatively poor African country with a rampant AIDS epidemic now charges fees for hospital appointments and charges fees for school attendance, all courtesy of the IMF.<br />These above summations are just the tip of the iceberg.  The book has many more disturbing and revealing chapters that readers will find very interesting.  Finishing off, Greg Palast sends a clear message that the mainstream media is not your friend and they love to expose critical news stories long after public sentiment has elapsed and damage control has been completed.  As a former governor of Minnesota once said, the media is no longer in the business of reporting the news, they are in the business of creating the news.<br />Greg Palast has written an outstanding, although disturbing book of who actually controls power and money and their machinations to sweep aside the little people regardless of consequences.  This is a highly recommended read for those that are fed up and those looking for answers.ointments and charges fees for school attendance, all courtesy of the IMF.<br />These above summations are just the tip of the iceberg.  The book has many more disturbing and revealing chapters that readers will find very interesting.  Finishing off, Greg Palast sends a clear message that the mainstream media is not your friend and they love to expose critical news stories long after public sentiment has elapsed and damage control has been completed.  As a former governor of Minnesota once said, the media is no longer in the business of reporting the news, they are in the business of creating the news.<br />Greg Palast has written an outstanding, although disturbing book of who actually controls power and money and their machinations to sweep aside the little people regardless of consequences.  This is a highly recommended read for those that are fed up and those looking for answers.	2003-04-18
US	49821281	R1OPD8C9HMS2TN	0393020126	480228192	Glory Denied: The Saga of Jim Thompson, America's Longest-Held Prisoner of War	Books	5	21	22	N	Y	Incredibly and emotionally revealing......	Special Forces Captain Jim Thompson was shot down (while an observer on a reconnaissance flight) over South Vietnam on March 24, 1964.  Held first in jungle camps in South Vietnam and later moved to North Vietnam, Thompson would not see another American for 4 years and would spend a total of 5 years in solitary confinement and isolation.<br />Suffering brutal torture, disease, and starvation, he would endure some of the worst treatment ever imagined for almost 9 unbelievable years.  Eventually, he would be recognized as the longest held prisoner of war in American history.  During his confinement, Thompson never wavered in his defiance of his captors and continually upheld his convictions in America, his patriotism, his pride, and his beliefs.<br />Upon returning to the United States, hoping to re-establish a stable home life, Jim Thompson is quickly immersed in tragic events that would continue several years after his return.  Starting with the revelation of his wife's infidelity during his captivity, major turmoil would befall his family soon thereafter.  He is unprepared for 9 years of change that has influenced his family and this sadly leads to, among other things, alienation of his children, addiction to alcohol, estrangement from his wife, and eventual divorce.<br />In a constant uphill struggle, Thompson painfully suffered through many subsequent events in his life that literally brought him to the edge of despair and his attempting suicide.<br />Glory Denied is quite possibly the saddest, most tragic, and totally heart-wrenching accounts of POW captivity ever written.  It is also a story of love, understanding, forgiveness, hope, faith, and survival.<br />Sixteen years in the making, this book is exceedingly well written and prepared and evokes much emotion in its content.  Deserving of 10 stars, this book is very highly recommended to everyone.	2003-04-15
US	49821281	R1TU55RU5E488T	1556111673	864611679	Chained Eagle	Books	5	17	18	N	Y	An incredible memoir of POW captivity.......	On August 5th, 1964, Lieutenant j.g. Everett Alvarez Jr. was shot down over North Vietnam and became the first U.S. aviator to be taken captive in the Vietnam conflict.  Held in confinement for eight and a half years, he would be recorded as the longest held POW second only to Army Captain Jim Thompson.<br />Spending the entire Vietnam war as a POW, Alvarez was held at different times in the Hanoi Hilton, Briarpatch, and Zoo prison compounds.  It would be a year until he finally had contact with other American POW's and much of that first year was in solitary confinement.<br />Approaching 2 years of captivity, Alvarez and his fellow servicemen were subjected to brutal and sadistic tortures amidst inhumane living conditions for the duration of their stay.  Forced to eat vermin infested food and given negligible medical care, he suffered frequently from Dysentery, Beri-Beri, Hepatitis, and other afflictions.<br />Far along into captivity, Alvarez finally received mail from his family concerning events at home.  Sadly, he was to learn that one of his sisters had become an anti-war activist and in what must have seemed like one of the worst examples of betrayal and cruelty, his wife divorced him and then remarried.<br />During the worst of times, Alvarez never wavered in his beliefs of pride, patriotism, and self-determination to survive and continually assisted his fellow POW's as they assisted him.  Upon a joyous and welcome return home, he diligently and proudly re-entered society with his honor and integrity intact culminating with his second marriage to a wonderful woman that made his life complete.<br />Chained Eagle is an exceptionally good book of one man's heroic struggle and endurance in the face of complete despair and hopelessness.  Vividly poignant, inspirational, and heartfelt, this book is deserving of much more than five stars and is very highly recommended to everyone.	2003-04-13
US	49821281	R1QJCSM1Q2LF6Q	0966177142	432158446	Tiger Cage: An Untold Story	Books	5	4	6	N	Y	It's time you knew the truth.......	From 1967 to 1972, Don Bordenkircher was a senior adviser to the director of South Vietnam's correction system.  He was tasked to help reform, improve, and update Southern Vietnam's 41 correctional centers including Con Son prison (location of the Tiger Cages).<br />As could be expected, the centers that he surveyed had a myriad of problems ranging from bad to deplorable and in great need of care.  Bordenkircher and his fellow assistants, in the time that they had, did make significant strides in improving the overall situation but not without sacrifice.  On Con Son island, the center there had detention cells known as Tiger Cages for the most unruly and problematic of the inmates.  These holding areas were deemed adequate by most known standards at the time considering their location.<br />Unfortunately, that's not what was told and shown to the world by an unscrupulous and damning media sideshow.  In 1970, a congressional delegation made up of Congressmen Gus Hawkins and William Anderson, then aide Tom Harkins (now Senator Harkins), and journalist Don Luce, visited Con Son Island on a \\"fact finding mission\\", so to speak.  Their ulitmate aim was to exploit the Tiger Cages in an inflammatory way using distortions, lies, deceit and misinformation.  The story manufactured by the delegation was to the effect that the Con Son Tiger Cages were barbaric and that prison conditions on the island were horrific in every way.  Contrary to the facts.<br />After selling this piece of fiction to the media, a firestorm of controversy ensued and probably at no worse a time as the anti-American sentiment of the Vietnamese war was already at a boiling point.  Subsequent attempts to reveal the complete truth to the world was shunned by the U.S. government and the mainstream media.<br />Despite the destructive criticism and propaganda thrown at Don Bordenkircher and his team, they continually fought an uphill battle for the remainder of their time in Vietnam and were able to make some large strides for the betterment of the South Vietnamese correction system.<br />Tiger Cage is a well written and documented book and a hidden chapter of the Vietnam war that absolutely needed to be told.  Much credit is due to Don and Shirley Bordenkircher for their courage and perseverance and honesty in bringing this to story to light. This is a highly recommended read.ome large strides for the betterment of the South Vietnamese correction system.  <br />Tiger Cage is a well written and documented book and a hidden chapter of the Vietnam war that absolutely needed to be told.  Much credit is due to Don and Shirley Bordenkircher for their courage and perseverance and honesty in bringing this to story to light. This is a highly recommended read.	2003-04-09
US	49821281	R188FEH2V62V30	0914984640	562351915	POW/MIA: America's Missing Men: The Men We Left Behind	Books	5	14	14	N	Y	A brilliant work on the POW/MIA issue.......	After having read many books on the POW/MIA subject, it was immediately clear to me that after reading \\"POW/MIA - America's Missing Men - The Men We Left Behind\\", this book is the definitive encyclopedia on the subject.<br />Covering World War 2, Korea, Vietnam, and the first Gulf War (with major emphasis on Vietnam), it is clear to see that this book is exceptionally well researched and compiled.<br />Among some of the superb material is major statistics of the Vietnam war, a huge list of unaccounted for U.S. servicemen with supporting intelligence information, and a timeline overview through the years that shows exactly what has been accomplished by the United States, Vietnam, Cambodia, and Laos concerning the continuing POW/MIA issue.<br />Finishing off the book are 126 riveting photographs of American servicemen held in captivity.  These photos, not easy to look at, are heart wrenching in their portrayal of the pain, suffering, and hardship suffered by our servicemen.<br />For the best possible material on POW/MIA's (predominantly in Vietnam), this is the book for you.  It comes hugely recommended to everyone interested in this material.	2003-04-06
US	49821281	RL58FNIQ9L4H2	0345336771	580833809	The Passing of the Night: My Seven Years As a Prisoner of the North Vietnamese	Books	5	24	26	N	Y	A testament of hope........	To describe courage and bravery, strength and resilience, pride and professionalism, it only takes two words....Robinson Risner.  In an ordeal that began in 1965 and lasted for a monumental seven and a half years, he was incarcerated in the Hanoi Hilton and Zoo prison compounds in North Vietnam after he was shot down.<br />Subjected to unspeakable tortures and barbaric conditions, Robinson Risner literally descended into a pit of hell from which he was eventually delivered out of by his relentless perseverance and his faith in God.<br />After reading The Passing of the Night, it reinforced my pride in America, our military, and the extraordinary stature of our convictions and beliefs in the most desperate of times.<br />Robison Risner's book is heartfelt, down to earth, and very moving in its portrayal and leaves a resounding message for everyone.  No matter how difficult things may be in life, never lose faith in yourself and always know God will never give you more than you can handle.<br />This book comes highly recommended to anyone and everyone.	2003-04-03
US	49821281	R2RTB3VNQHS1C1	0890812314	248191155	Scars and Stripes	Books	5	8	8	N	Y	Scars and Stripes.....truly inspirational	The story of Eugene \\"Red\\" McDaniel is not only about a prisoner of war in Vietnam, it is the story of a hero who defied the odds and overcame extreme adversity.<br />Eugene McDaniel was shot down in 1967 and spent 5 years in captivity in North Vietnam's Hanoi Hilton, Zoo, and Zoo Annex prison compounds.  While imprisoned, he made very aggressive strides to keep secret communications going between the prisoners even though such communicating was prohibited.  In continued defiance of his captors, he paid a dear price.<br />McDaniel had the unfortunate distinction of being one of the most viciously tortured prisoners of the Vietnam war.  Methods used on him were sadistic and barbaric and leaves you wondering how his jailors could possible treat another human being in this manner.<br />In the most trying of times, when all hope was lost and despair was complete, McDaniel turned to faith and prayer in God and was lifted up from the depths he was in.  McDaniel was a constant source of optimism and strength for his fellow prisoners during confinement.<br />This book, outstanding in its message of courage, perseverance, and inspiration, will leave you knowing that no matter how difficult things can become, faith in God will always see you through.<br />A magnificent book from start to finish and definitely recommended to everyone.	2003-04-01
US	49821281	R2D7JAUJ7UF3P2	1565302516	881043725	Why Didn't You Get Me Out?: The Story of Vietnam's Longest Held P.O.W.	Books	5	11	12	N	Y	An extraordinary story of POW captivity.......	In January of 1968, helicopter pilot Warrant Officer Frank Anton was shot down in Southern Vietnam and spent 5 years in captivity.  Many prominent books have been written of U.S. POW's in Hanoi's prisons but this story is a riveting look at POW's held in prison camps in Southern Vietnam which may have been worse.<br />Frank Anton has written a very detailed and graphic account of severly brutal conditions and treatments he and others suffered at the hands of the North Vietnamese and the Viet Cong.  For 3 of his 5 years in confinement in the south (he spent time in 4 different camps), he weaves a harrowing tale of torture, starvation, non-existent medical treatment, disease, and barbarity suffered by prisoners.  He further adds that during his confinement, he was witness to many Americans dying in the camps and also of betrayal and enemy collaboration by one of their own.<br />After 3 years of confinement in the south, Anton and the surviving members of his camp, in an incredible display of courage, strength, and determination, are forced to march on foot for an astonishing 6 months to one of Hanoi's prison camps known as the Plantation.  For an additional 2 years, this was Anton's new home before being released from captivity in 1973.<br />Upon arriving home, Frank Anton was debriefed by the military and he eventually found out, to his dismay and horror, that our government know exactly where he was the entire time he was being held and that no serious attempts were considered to rescue him or his fellow soldiers.<br />In the last chapter of this book, which is absolutely astonishing, you will find out why no attempts were made to rescue many POW's.  Additionally, you will learn the current fate of large numbers of POW's that were left behind and are currently unaccounted for in Vietnam.  This information is highly disturbing and tragic and paints a very callous and unscrupulous portrait of our government with their regard to our missing servicemen.<br />This book is exceptionally good and comes highly recommended.  As a side note, Pfc Robert Garwood (possibly the most notorious U.S. POW collaborator of the Vietnam war) is featured prominently in parts of this book.  For those interested in the complete story of Robert Garwood, you would be well rewarded by reading \\"Conversations With The Enemy: The Story of Pfc Robert Garwood\\" by Winston Groom and Duncan Spencer.s exceptionally good and comes highly recommended.  As a side note, Pfc Robert Garwood (possibly the most notorious U.S. POW collaborator of the Vietnam war) is featured prominently in parts of this book.  For those interested in the complete story of Robert Garwood, you would be well rewarded by reading \\"Conversations With The Enemy: The Story of Pfc Robert Garwood\\" by Winston Groom and Duncan Spencer.	2003-03-30
US	49821281	R3VEV9DMWTO5AJ	0966059727	683647337	When Hell Was in Session	Books	5	48	49	N	Y	A triumph of human endurance.......	In July of 1965, Naval aviatior Jeremiah A. Denton was shot down over North Vietnamese territory and taken as a prisoner of war.  When Hell was in Session details the harrowing experiences faced by Denton and many other United States prisoners of war in Hanoi.<br />During his seven and a half years in captivity, quite a bit of that time spent in solitary confinement, he was subject to horrific tortures and treatment that the average person could only experience in their very worst nightmares.  It is readily apparent that Denton was a very brave and honorable man with an iron will when he resisited his jailors at every turn.  Furthermore, it is a testament to his courage and character that he chose to relive those horrifying years in his mind to be able to write this book with so much detail.<br />Even though this book is only 182 pages, its contents are probably one of the best eye-witness accounts you will read of an American held in Hanoi's infamous Hanoi Hilton prison complex. I've read quite a few books on U.S. captives in Hanoi and this one is at the top. Highly recommended to anyone who is interested in this subject material.	2003-03-24
US	49821281	RV4GKZL38RX9L	0399127151	47190372	Conversations With the Enemy: The Story of PFC Robert Garwood	Books	4	39	40	N	Y	Garwood....traitor, hero or victim?	Converations With the Enemy is the well documented saga of the 14 year captivity of U.S. Marine PFC Robert Garwood in Vietnam.  In September of 1965, while serving in Da Nang as a staff driver, Garwood was tasked to pick up a military member some distance from his base when he was accosted by the Viet Cong and placed into the enemy prison camp system.<br />Beginning his ordeal in Southern Vietnam, the book portrays a story of dreadful conditions suffered by American POW's in the worst types of conditions.  The compelling narrative will illustrate how a U.S. serviceman can suffer and cope and adjust to his situation to make it survivable so that he may one day return home.  But, it goes quite deeper than that.<br />We find that Garwood, while stationed at a number of prison camps in the south, was eventually joined by other captured American prisoners. Already in the camp system for many months on his own before seeing new Americans, he had to adjust his means of survivability in the way he interacted with the North Vietnamese enemy that held him.<br />Some of the measures he adopted were learning to speak the Vietnamese language fluently, interpreting for the camp hierarchy, assisting camp cadre with duties, and succumbing to propaganda viewpoints (after being tortured) to name just a view.<br />It is no great leap of logic that when new American prisoners were brought to the camp and witnessed Garwood's activities and unusual behaviors, he appeared to be colloborating with the enemy in certain ways and his actions could certainly appear to be traitorous. When described in detail by the authors, the activities of Garwood do appear to be detrimental to the U.S. soldiers code of conduct but you must also ask yourself this: In his position, what would you do to survive and to make ends meet in a very harrowing situation?<br />I agree that some of Garwood's actions are very suspect and quite possibly out of line and readers will cast their own judgement's about the controversial happenings in this book.<br />After years of confinement in Southern Vietnamese camps, the story shows how Garwood was eventually moved to North Vietnam to another camp and was \\"employed\\" in a matter of speaking by the North Vietnamese as a mechanic for their military vehicles. The methods by which he lived in that camp might also be seen as controversial depending on the views of the reader. There is no doubt though, like his life in the Southern Vietnamese camps it was far from pleasant. Using clandestine methods, Garwood was eventually able to get a note to a foreigner in Hanoi to alert the United States of his captivity in Vietnam.<br />Upon being repatriated back to the Unites States in 1979, his return is problematic and controversial to our government and to the Vietnamese government being that after the release of POW's in 1973, both governments claimed there were no more POW's in Vietnam. To compound the problem, Garwood is accused of committing several military crimes while he was in captivity and is faced with a court martial. Many of the POW's he was interned with at the different camps testify against him at his court martial adding further questions to the whole situation. This book will detail the elements of his trial and court martial proceedings and in the end, the reader will be left to form their own assumptions of what really is or is not true justice.<br />Being a military member, I had many conflicting emotions throughout this book and tried to be as objective as I could in my decisions of guilt or innocence.  Readers will be put to the test also in this regard and it is not easy.  Overall, the story is a very poignant testament to a sad, difficult and tragic time in Garwood's life and where it has left him to this day.<br />This book is highly recommended to anyone who is interested in Vietnam POW's and accounts of their captivity.  The authors did a very good job in the detail and scope of the book keeping their views honest and non-judgemental.non-judgemental.	2003-03-19
US	49821281	R4L5UFSRO2QQT	0915765837	555746662	Soldiers of Misfortune: Washington's Secret Betrayal of American POWs in the Soviet Union	Books	5	29	31	N	Y	A travesty of justice for U.S. soldiers.........	Soldiers of Misfortune, covering World War II, the Korean war, and Vietnam, is a profoundly shocking insight as to what has become of thousands of U.S. POW's during these wars.  According to the authors, years of investigative work went into the formulation of the book and it is clearly evident in the text.<br />Painstaking attention has been given and recorded to remove anyone's doubts of this books authenticity.  The authors list a staggering record of POW's forever lost to our enemies, the names of prison camps and gulags where they were held, intricate dates and timelines of events, and eyewitness accounts of vital information pertaining to U.S. soldiers forgotten by our govenment.<br />In the years following World War II, the Korean war, and Vietnam, the actions by our govenment to conceal data concerning our POW's and it's campaigns to silence anyone investigating the issue is absolutely apalling.  This book will define for the reader the gross misuses of power, illegal tactics to manipulate and humiliate citizens seeking honest answers, and the use of outright threats and intimidation to bury the subject forever.<br />Great credit is due to the authors of this book for their courage and perseverance to expose the plight of our lost U.S. servicemen. This book is very highly recommended to everyone who would like an untainted and factual look into the heartbreaking saga of missing U.S. soldiers.<br />Readers may also be interested in \\"Kiss the Boys Goodbye: How the United States betrayed its own POW's in Vietnam\\" by Monica Jensen-Stevenson and William Stevenson.  Excellent source material here that reiterates much information found in Soldiers of Misfortune.	2003-03-12
US	49821281	R2A8QC3V7POHGP	0525249346	453746512	Kiss the Boys Goodbye: How the United States Betrayed Its Own POWs in Vietnam	Books	4	40	41	N	Y	Astounding revelations and information	Kiss the Boys Goodbye is a well detailed and researched book on the continuing plight of the POW/MIA saga which has repeatedly surfaced since the end of the Vietnam war. The book is basically the continuation of Monica Jensen Stevenson's investigation which started when she worked for 60 Minutes and aired a program of POW/MIA's which was not to her satisfaction.<br />That is to say, the media, being 60 Minutes, edited the program and other matierial to suit what would be acceptable to the U.S government as to not cause the government any embarrassment or uncomfortable questions on the subject. Stevenson, unhappy with the final result, decided to quit working for 60 Minutes and wrote this book on her own with her husband William Stevenson.<br />This book will probably make the reader angry and suspicious of what just really has become of our U.S. soldiers that were \\"lost\\" in Vietnam and those who were taken as prisoners of war. There are multiple accounts in the book of government cover-up's, intimidation, media suppression of facts, outright lies to military dependants who lost loved ones in Vietman, and manipulation to coerce people from digging too deep to find true answers.<br />Kiss the Boys Goodbye contains many interviews and intelligence information gleaned from former POW's, former U.S. intelligence operatives, U.S. politicians, families of the missing, and others that has placed them at risk for retaliation and humiliation from the government.<br />This book will give startling examples of recent intelligence that proves Americans are still alive and being held against their will in Vietnam and what has actually been done to address the issue by our govenment in recent years (which hasn't been much). Beyond that, the reader will be given information why the govenment has refused to help bring missing men home. Namely, the \\"secret wars\\" that the United States fought in Cambodia and mostly Laos and how the wars there were financed by drug money and the spurious dealings of the CIA.<br />As a member of our military for 15 years now, I find myself sad, disturbed, shocked, and angered by the outrageous acts perpetrated by our government and their callous disregard for our own military men. Probably everyone who reads this book whether a part of the military or not, will find themselves feeling the say way. I also took it upon myself to research this subject more closely and have found many, many books related to this subject that back up Monica Jensen Stevenson's information and findings.<br />I would highly recommend this book to everyone who would like a truthful explanation on the fate of our POW's, what has been hidden from the public by our govenment, and the illegal use of power by our govenment and it's intelligence agencies.ous dealings of the CIA. <br />As a member of our military for 15 years now, I find myself sad, disturbed, shocked, and angered by the outrageous acts perpetrated by our government and their callous disregard for our own military men. Probably everyone who reads this book whether a part of the military or not, will find themselves feeling the say way. I also took it upon myself to research this subject more closely and have found many, many books related to this subject that back up Monica Jensen Stevenson's information and findings.<br />I would highly recommend this book to everyone who would like a truthful explanation on the fate of our POW's, what has been hidden from the public by our govenment, and the illegal use of power by our govenment and it's intelligence agencies.	2003-03-06
US	49821281	R1G8AGUWK3CXNA	0385474466	599805840	Case Closed: Lee Harvey Oswald and the Assassination of JFK	Books	1	25	46	N	N	The data does not convince here	Conspiracy theorists come under heavy fire and are labeled paranoid, crazy, unbalanced, and other descriptions.  You do not have to be a conspiracy theorist to know that there was more than one person involved in the murder of John Kennedy.<br />There have been countless books published on the subject of the assassination and I must have read at least 10 of them.  Of the books I have read, and these are independant authors not in collusion with each other,  they have uncovered unquestionable evidence that points to more than one individual involved with the shooting of JFK.<br />This is not a personal attack on Gerald Posner himself or my attempt to criticize his efforts, but after reading his book Case Closed, I have to be true to myself and look at this as objectively as possible.<br />Countless tests and experiments and excercises have been conducted over the years in regards to duplicating Oswalds feat of shooting.  New evidence has surfaced many years after the assassination.  Very highly educated and professional personnel have spent countless hours of research and fact finding and performing studies in relation to this very highly debated assassination.<br />After all is said and done, and if you are an objective, middle of the road, rational person, it is reasonable to expect you to read and research many works on the assassination to try to get the most complete and untainted answers to make a logical conclusion.<br />The preponderance of evidence available today, including vast amounts of paper research, photographs, witness testimony, audio information, film, scientific experimentation, and archival data would show that, to an un-biased and objective and clear thinking individual, the information presented in this book absolutely does not represent factual or believable material that lends creedence to a &quot;lone assassin&quot; or &quot;magic bullet&quot; theory or other conclusions arrived at by Gerald Posner.	2001-07-14
US	49821281	R219G8O6XD9Q45	0385499078	218243212	Body of Secrets: Anatomy of the Ultra-Secret National Security Agency	Books	5	6	10	N	Y	A bird's eye view of the  National Security Agency	James Bamford has done a beautifully rendered work of the entire body and structure of the National Security Agency. I don't believe that he has left any stone unturned in this work.  He will enthrall you with everything from the departments in the NSA, how they conduct themselves, how they hire new employees, incidents they have been involved in, and more.<br />This book is actually a continuation on the NSA from his earlier work.  His first book, The Puzzle Palace, told of how the NSA came into being and researches some questionable happenings involving the NSA and how they evolved from the early 1950's to the 1980's.  Body of Secrets takes over from there.<br />If you are interested in government intelligence, spies, intrigue and mystery, and our covert hierarchy, this is a very well detailed and informative book. Down to earth, easy to read and very enjoyable in all aspects.  Highly recommended along with The Puzzle Palace.	2001-07-14
US	49821281	R2GIL0QK9XB7WJ	0963906208	874073397	Kill Zone: A Sniper Looks at Dealey Plaza	Books	5	71	76	N	N	Exposing what the U.S. Government hid from the public	If you want a comprehensive and thorough investigation of the JFK assassination and the real answers and players, this would be an excellent place to start.  Craig Roberts has painstakingly spent hour upon hour researching his material and has government documentation (included in the book) to boot.<br />So much of what you read here was never researched by the Warren Commission, never revealed by the mass media, and covered up by the FBI and other governmental agencies to mislead the American public.<br />The original JFK investigation (Warren Commission, etc.) was, without a doubt, one of the most heinous, deplorable, and saddest travesties of justice ever forced on the American public. This book will show you why and open your eyes.<br />Not only does Craig Roberts investigate the assassination, later in the book you will find very revealing information and names involved in power structures that have played a part in very significant happenings in the history of this country.  It's not a pretty picture and if you are a patriotic, down to earth American citizen, you will probably find yourself angry and disgusted with what has happened to America and her citizens. And you'll have every right to feel that way.<br />If you find this book revealing, you should also read Craig Roberts book JFK: The Dead Witnesses.  This explores in detail all of the mysterious and unusual deaths that have surrounded those who were connected to the JFK assassination either directly or indirectly.<br />Last but not least, if you want an explosive account of government cover-ups and conspiracies all the way from World War II germ warfare up to the downing of TWA Flight 800 and everything in-between, Craig Roberts book THE MEDUSA FILE will make your hair stand on end.  You would not believe what our government has done over the years; it is absolutely astonishing.  And most of the public doesn't know any of it.<br />All these books are recommended reading for those who want the complete truth and aren't afraid to confront some very scary and disturbing information. In fact, these books should probably be required reading for all Americans so that they can begin to  understand how our government sees itself as &quot;above the law&quot;.e truth and aren't afraid to confront some very scary and disturbing information. In fact, these books should probably be required reading for all Americans so that they can begin to  understand how our government sees itself as &quot;above the law&quot;.	2001-07-14
