US	49824972	R3QBAOUSK2KWMD	1932382607	396467465	Richard Matheson's Hell House, Book 1 (Bk. 1)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Faithful Beginning	I'd never read Hell House although I'm a fan of horror. But browsing the rack one day I noticed this gem and reading the back cover piqued my interest. I was not disappointed. I re-read the story 3 times and kept wishing I could find out what happened next.<br /><br />I finally couldn't stand it anymore. I bought the novel upon which it's based. OK, so I now know how the trade is going to end but it's not going to stop me from buying each issue. Edington and Co. has done a great job of adapting the story to the graphic novel format. All the key scenes, the nuiances, character personalities are preserved. Eddington preserved even key dialogue straight from the novel to the trade. The artwork is black and white yet for me seemed to work. It added strength to the creepiness of the house.<br /><br />Anyone who is a fan of the original novel may well find this graphic novel adaption a new, interesting way to enjoy the story.	2005-02-06
US	49824972	R1Q8H1ILF7HQXS	0451459105	490528046	The Changeling Plague	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Fast-Paced Medical Sci-Fi Thriller	Bio-engineering must be an \\"in\\" thing to base fiction on these days among hard sci-fi writers the way cyberpunk was for the mid-to-late 90's. The Changeling Plague reminded me of nothing so much as Greg Bear's Darwin's Radio (also an excellent read). Both use a base hypothesis of what would happen if genetic propogation began to do odd things. How would that change us and how would various societies and their governments respond? But while Bear's story hypothesizes it could happen from spontanous mutation due to environmental stresses such as industrial pollution and over-populated regions Ms. Mitchell's novel envisions a world where illegal gene therapy research escapes the control of the scientists conducting it.<br />As with most novels there are some odd situations. For example, in Ms. Mitchell's novel (as a previous reviewer noted) the world quite understandably has a mass panic (the infection rate climbs to 96% with almost certain death to follow). It is never clear how extensive the damage is beyond a few scenes sketched out showing general public panic. In a world where it is admitted this virus is highly communicable (the author never quite pins down if it's airborn or only transmitted via touch) and mass-panic ensues apparently pizza-delivery boys think they're immune so you can still order delivery knowing it will be at your doorstep a half hour later. And since the story explains earlier that bio-hazard suits sell for thousands of dollars on the black market I doubt pizza-delivery suddenly becomes a lucrative career option. This is only one example of some odd disjunctures. It had the effect of reminding me I was reading a story. Thankfully though it didn't happen often.<br />If I had to classify it I would say this book is more plot-driven than character-driven. You see the 3 main characters (the medical researcher Lillith, Patient 0 Geoffrey Allen and hacker extraordinaire Idaho Davis) and what they think and how they react to the events around them but unlike some I didn't get a sense of getting to know or understand each character *except* in relation to their handling of the plague and it's consequences on them, their family and friends. This is what I mean about it being more of a plot-driven novel than a character-driven one. Having said that these 3 do get a lot of air-time with everyone else getting bit roles. Using terms of a standard hollywood tv-drama the main 3 carry the novel and get the majority of lines while a few other regulars get a few lines per chapter.<br />The pacing is also tight. Unlike some novels there isn't a lot of time spent building a backstory that makes people often say of a novel, \\"it's slow through the first part.\\". Ms. Mitchell jumps right in and never lets up. It is a fun, entertaining read and the author succeeds overall more often than not. If you are a sci-fi fan give this book a shot.t unlike some I didn't get a sense of getting to know or understand each character *except* in relation to their handling of the plague and it's consequences on them, their family and friends. This is what I mean about it being more of a plot-driven novel than a character-driven one. Having said that these 3 do get a lot of air-time with everyone else getting bit roles. Using terms of a standard hollywood tv-drama the main 3 carry the novel and get the majority of lines while a few other regulars get a few lines per chapter.<br />The pacing is also tight. Unlike some novels there isn't a lot of time spent building a backstory that makes people often say of a novel, \\"it's slow through the first part.\\". Ms. Mitchell jumps right in and never lets up. It is a fun, entertaining read and the author succeeds overall more often than not. If you are a sci-fi fan give this book a shot.	2003-04-10
US	49824972	R2KNKD792UV91P	0451458540	680062402	Once Upon a Winter's Night	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Enchanting retelling	The author states this novel is a retelling of a short story he read as a child. A short story titled &quot;East of the Sun and West of the Moon&quot; written by a Scandinavian author. If it was a Scandinavian tale that inspired the author I can only say that Nordic bard was a lover of myths for I know it as a re-telling of one of my favorite classical Greek myths that I read as a child - the myth of Eros and Psyche (i.e. Love and Soul). Right down to the need for Alain (Eros) to wear a mask and hiding his true form to prevent a curse enacting. Right down to Camille (Psyche) invoking the curse when she sees Alain's true form unmasked by candlelight as he sleeps. Right down to the drip of the candle wax on Eros'- I mean Alain's - chest. And of Psyche's - I mean Camille's - subsequent quest to find her lover again and break the curse. For as the Greek myth makes clear, Love and Soul were meant to be together for the blessing of mankind.<br />It was enchanting as a Greek myth and even more so as Mr. McKiernan's re-telling. Here the Greek myth is given life so compelling I think it better than the source. Unlike some previous reviewers I didn't have any problem with the occasional touches of archaic phrasing. They only happened sporadically and even then only in small touches. That must be something that is strictly a personal preference - you're either allergic to it or you're not. I actually liked it as it added to the over-all feel of what a myth should be when read. To anyone who likes myths and fairy tales this is a wonderful read. And if you ever get the chance - read the original myth from whence it came. You'll be glad you did.	2002-11-04
US	49824972	R14R1MECUTBD7F	0380762765	167243034	Mythago Wood	Books	5	26	29	N	Y	A Mythic Hidden Gem	At the time of this writing this book is out of print which is a shame. It is one of the most intriguing I've read in many a year. For anyone who has an interest in myths and legends, this is a powerful tale of one man confronting such legends and how he's changed by it. Holdstock drinks from the same well as Gaiman and any fan of Gaiman should definitely give Holdstock a go. He also seems to be familiar with many of Jung's Archtype ideas and gives them a believable place to live.<br /><br />Thus the protagonist begins his journey into the heartwood of a mythic primeval forest and beyond - a journey to find his beloved celtic princess and the Umscrumug - the First Myth - the Myth Before all Others. A myth so ancient, the author says, is now fading even in Mythago Wood as Humanity's Collective Unconcious slowly forgets its past. Mythago Wood, a forest where legends and myths from every people of every time and every land are formed, live and breath. A WW1 soldier inhabits the same land as shamanic tribesmen. A celtic princess from the days of Roman Britain walks the woods from legends out of a much later Robin Hood era. And while it is clear that these beings are not \\"real\\" in the same sense that the protagonist is they are still capable of feeling joy, love, pain and sorrow. And are equally capable of killing and being killed.<br /><br />The characters are human, with both flaws and redeeming qualities and hints of why myths and legends still hold our imagination are part of the entertaining story (If Mythago Wood were real I'm sure Jedi Knights, Klingons and Paul Atreides would now be walking there too).<br /><br />This book won awards for good reason. If you enjoy stories of myths and legends don't fail to pick it up.	2002-10-08
US	49824972	RS6MJ21OG7D4E	0789725495	114510749	How Computers Work (6th Edition)	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Leave &quot;Computer Clueless&quot; status behind...	with this book. You want a fun, entertaining introduction to computers? Get this book. The excellent pictures and diagrams clearly explain how all that hardware and software interacts in plain english. This book is good enough it can actually be a great aid in studying for A+ certification. I've met a lot of supposed &quot;techs&quot; who could actually gain something by reading it. When I took it to work people would laugh - until I handed it to them and they started reading.  They quit laughing and many of them quickly aquired their own copy soon after.<br />It won't make you a computer guru. If that is your eventual goal you'll need other books. But everyone has to start somewhere and this book can make the process more understandable and enjoyable. The cd is fun to watch and is yet another way to continue learning. For those who own Macs there is a Mac version of this book that is every bit as understandable and fun to read.	2002-09-17
US	49824972	R2H8MCO25XOXY0	0769296807	164571404	Acoustic Masters: Celtic Guitar, Book & CD (Acoustic Masters Series)	Books	5	25	25	N	Y	Beautiful to hear and fun to play	An excellent collection of Celtic tunes comprise this book/cd set. It is not a \\"method\\" or \\"how-to-play\\" celtic guitar book but if you're looking for fingerstyle celtic repertoire this is a great place to start. Most pieces are played with standard or drop D tuning but 6 use DADGAD tuning. They all should be within reach of any advanced beginner to intermediate guitarist as many are played within the first four frets - some move higher up the neck and one piece reaches up to the 12th fret. For those who prefer tablature each instrumental is given in both tab and standard notation. The cd helps insure the player is interpreting the written music as the author meant. Overall the selection of instrumentals is high - everything from reels, jigs, airs, waltzes, marches and hornpipe to arrangements of O'Carolan tunes are here. Definitely a two-thumbs up.	2002-04-11
US	49824972	R2MSI0CBX7X618	1581800215	328135491	Wildlife Painting Basics: Deer, Antelope & Other Hooved Animals	Books	5	7	8	N	Y	For any wanna-be wildlife painter	This is a great book to use for anyone interested in wildlife painting, specifically hooved animals such as deer, bighorn sheep, elk, moose, zebras, etc. Obligatory information such as surfaces, grounds, brushes, acrylic paints and gathering reference material is provided. Each animal gets its own chapter and each chapter follows a standard format. First, anatomy and how to sketch the featured animal is shown, then mini-demonstrations that show close ups of key features such as the head, neck, eyes, legs, etc.<br />The format of each demonstration is clean and easy to follow. There are numerous reference photos of the various animals as well as photos of the painting process. The close-ups of painting things such as fur and antlers is particularly helpful. The final chapters show step-by-step demonstrations of the environment as well as the animals and the author supplies ideas for how to compose your own original paintings from reference material. I would like to mention that although the author uses acrylic these painting techniques work just as well for other types of opaque paints. Even though I use acrylic paints myself I plan to use these techniques for some wildlife paintings using casein as well. The only painting media I use that might need other techniques than those demonstrated here are watercolor and pastels. Overall, an excellent book for any beginning wildlife painters reference shelf.	2002-01-17
US	49824972	RFPRKFS6VLNBM	0486229238	237887503	Celtic Art: The Methods of Construction (Dover Art Instruction)	Books	4	31	33	N	N	Beginning to Advanced Celtic Pattern Construction	Not too long ago I got the idea for a series of paintings with a celtic-medieval themed look. This book was one of the two books on celtic designs I bought. The type of patterns shown are very diverse and range from simple borders, to spirals, zoomorphs (animal-designs), calligraphy to examination of designs from Lindisfarne and the Book of Kells. It is also the most extensive of any of the books on this subject that I've seen. The only drawback is that the method for constructing these designs is not easy. As one earlier reviewer stated, the main method is to set up a grid pattern, draw out every line then erase the ones not needed. There are other books with simpler, better step-by-step details for constructing celtic designs. However, no other single book covers such a wide range as this one. It also covers a lot of complex designs and shows how to recreate them that no other celtic pattern books demonstrate. Quite a lot of the history of these designs is covered too. For anyone who can only afford one book on this subject this one will be all they'll ever need.	2002-01-16
US	49824972	RDZZGS9BR5T0K	087341831X	213902311	What Every Artist Needs to Know About: Paints and Colors	Books	5	23	23	N	Y	An Inside Look into Pigments and Paints	For anyone who has ever wondered how modern artists paints and the pigments and binders for various media are made this is an excellent book. The chapters and photos showing how various kinds of artists paint are made from start to finish is very enlightening. For example, I assumed acrylics were manufactured similarly to oils and watercolors. However, due to the nature of the acrylic polymer itself a different manufacturing process must be employed.<br />Also, one of the more fascinating chapters in the book is on the pigments themselves. After reading this chapter I added to my color palette many new modern pigments. In many cases I use them exclusively for a painting. Until reading this book I did not realize just how incredibly lightfast, permanent and resistant to varying weather conditions these new pigments really are. Thank you, Auto Industry for giving artists all these great new pigments! Books like this will help get the word out that these new pigments really are superior to many traditional ones. The Rennaissance masters would have loved to have access to the colors artists have available today. For example, for my orange colors I now often use a benzimidazolone, an isoindoline and a pyrole. The reds and browns are now quinacridones and pyroles (although I still use red, orange and yellow cadmiums on occasion). My most frequently used yellows are azo and hansa. One of my favorite blues is an anthraquinone. Practically the only color on artist palettes that has not benefitted from auto industry pigment research is white. Titanium white significantly compromises the lightfastness of any color it is mixed with. As for the pigments I mentioned above many have transparent qualities while others are very opaque. This book explores how you can exploit each of these new pigments' qualities to add new dimensions to your artwork. And you may want to consider trying some of the secondary colors because they have qualities that might not be available from a mixed secondary.<br />Later chapters in the book discuss the binder and mediums for various types of paints such as oils, watercolors and acrylics. One of the last chapters examines &quot;painting&quot; with computer programs such as Adobe Illustrator and Photoshop. The final chapter covers health and safety issues. Get this book. It will open your eyes to the wonderful possibilities of today's pigments and paints.secondary.<br />Later chapters in the book discuss the binder and mediums for various types of paints such as oils, watercolors and acrylics. One of the last chapters examines &quot;painting&quot; with computer programs such as Adobe Illustrator and Photoshop. The final chapter covers health and safety issues. Get this book. It will open your eyes to the wonderful possibilities of today's pigments and paints.	2002-01-16
US	49824972	R14WJYCJGBYXJI	0374228809	21970729	Painting by Numbers: Komar and Melamid's Scientific Guide to Art	Books	5	14	14	N	Y	Fascinating Look into Tastes in Art	This book will get anyone thinking about what qualifies as &quot;art&quot;. Have you ever gone to a modern art museum or picked up a modern art magazine and wondered &quot;how can anyone call that art?&quot; Well this book will get you thinking about questions like that. Using scientific polling methods 2 Russian immigrants canvased the U.S. to find out what the average American considers art.<br />The results are exactly the kind of works most working modern artists or their patrons would be dismayed over. Get this book. It is a fascinating and entertaining read. One interesting note from the book - the editor of The Nation said that when they published the results of this poll it drew an avalanche of reader mail. It generated the largest reader response of anything they'd published in the history of that magazine to date. Several newspapers interviewed owners of prominant NYC art galleries as well as some prominant artists. All of them were horified by the results of this poll. One commentator sniffed the poll just proves Americans are boors when it comes to art - prefering only the safest, most banal subjects. What is interesting is that the book shows the results of this poll were duplicated in many other countries around the globe. Countries as diverse as Kenya and Iceland showed their own polls duplicated the preferences of the average American - i.e. a liking for landscapes with peaceful blue skies.<br />The book reproduces in full the entire questionaire used by the polling company along with an interview with Momar and Kelamid. The two Russians also gained notoriety by creating pictures of each countries most-preferred and least-preferred paintings. Each painting had the canvas divied up to match the percentages shown in the poll that respondents wanted (or didn't want in the case of the 'Least Preferred' paintings). Thus if the poll showed 65% preferred landscapes with a blue sky then 65% of the painting surface had a blue sky.<br />Interviews as well as commentary on the nature of art and what this might mean also fill the book. There is even a chapter by one of my favorite modern-day philosophers - Arthur C. Danto (I have several of his books). He asks the question &quot;Can It Be The 'Most Wanted Painting' Even if Nobody Wants It?&quot;<br />The results in this book lead to many questions. Not the least of these is 'what is art?' and 'what does this say about human nature?'. One article from the Jan/Feb 2002 issue of American Spectator illustrates this problem very well. It seems a few months ago a very famous photographer was holding a one-man exhibit at a London gallery. He is quite famous for the nauseating and offensive subject matter of his work. That night he gathered together the cigarrette butts, empty paper cups, and other assorted trash from the opening-night party and &quot;artfully&quot; arranged it in a pile in a corner and took a picture of it. The pile was promptly announced by a London art-critic to be worth at least 5K (in pounds). Unfortunately, someone forgot to tell the janitor that night that the pile was art, not trash. So you can guess the ending of this story.<br />I recount this to make a point. That is, this book will shed some light on why so many people have trouble - even the U.S. Supreme Court - on saying exactly what Art is. Get this book. It is fun and fascinating look into not only the tastes in art around the world but also a window into the science of polls and polling.ommentary on the nature of art and what this might mean also fill the book. There is even a chapter by one of my favorite modern-day philosophers - Arthur C. Danto (I have several of his books). He asks the question &quot;Can It Be The 'Most Wanted Painting' Even if Nobody Wants It?&quot;<br />The results in this book lead to many questions. Not the least of these is 'what is art?' and 'what does this say about human nature?'. One article from the Jan/Feb 2002 issue of American Spectator illustrates this problem very well. It seems a few months ago a very famous photographer was holding a one-man exhibit at a London gallery. He is quite famous for the nauseating and offensive subject matter of his work. That night he gathered together the cigarrette butts, empty paper cups, and other assorted trash from the opening-night party and &quot;artfully&quot; arranged it in a pile in a corner and took a picture of it. The pile was promptly announced by a London art-critic to be worth at least 5K (in pounds). Unfortunately, someone forgot to tell the janitor that night that the pile was art, not trash. So you can guess the ending of this story.<br />I recount this to make a point. That is, this book will shed some light on why so many people have trouble - even the U.S. Supreme Court - on saying exactly what Art is. Get this book. It is fun and fascinating look into not only the tastes in art around the world but also a window into the science of polls and polling.	2002-01-09
US	49824972	R3PJG49YFXZQS4	0486233588	869384406	Pictorial Composition (Composition in Art) (Dover Art Instruction)	Books	5	179	181	N	Y	Really Deserves 6 Stars	This is one of the most thorough books in the teaching and analysis of composition I've ever had the fortune to read. All my other art books mention the neccessity of sound composition and eye movement but none give the detailed breakdown of how that's accomplished or why it fails. This book does. You aren't just told - it's broken down for you explicitly with dozens of examples from famous paintings. All kinds of compositions are examined.<br />Here is a list of the chapter titles and some (would be tiresome to include it all) of what they teach<br />1. Balance - rules, scale of attraction, vertical/horizontal balance, natural balance, apparant/formal balance, balance by opposition of line, balance by opposition of spots, transition of line...etc, etc, etc.<br />2. Entrance and Exit - getting into the picture, getting out of the picture<br />3. Circular Observation - circular composition, reconstruction for circular observation<br />4. Angular Composition - the triangle, the vertical line in angular composition, angular composition based on the horizontal, line of beauty, structural line<br />5. Composition with One or More Units - 2 units, 3 units, groups, the figure in landscape<br />6. Light and Shade - pricipality, gradation<br />Color Plates.....<br />If you really want to learn composition and get it down cold - get this book. It's a priceless gem.	2002-01-08
US	49824972	R1CVQX739Q9B1T	0874776619	33653634	Drawing for Older Children & Teens	Books	5	222	223	N	N	This Book Really Deserves To Be Better Known	If I had to pick only 5 books from my art instruction shelf to keep and had to sell all the rest this would head the list as Keeper Book 1.  Many people are familiar with Betty Edward's Drawing on the Right-Side of the Brain and I agree it is a good book. But Mona Brooke's book is every bit as good and I really feel it is unknown and under-appreciated compared to Ms. Edwards book - especially considering the excellent instruction and lessons each chapter gives. These 2 books are excellent complements to each other. And don't let the title throw you. This book is worthy of every adult wanna-be-artist's bookshelf. There are just as many examples of adult beginner artwork as there are examples from children and teenagers. Like the Betty Edwards book it teaches beginners progressively how to see and draw things and people. But this book puts a much larger focus on creativity - take what you learn and unleash it creatively as well as realistically (or even un-realistically if that's what you prefer as the author says).<br />Everything is here - proportion, perspective, contrast, shading, scale, etc. and the tons of &quot;projects&quot; help reinforce the lessons. But a big chunk of the book give projects stressing creativity as well. That is what I love about this book so much. Not only do these people go from childlike drawings and progress to increasingly amazing results -they throw in big doses of creative inspiration as well. So, for example, some of the students (after learning and proving to themselves they can finally draw realistic portraits) forsake strict realism for more creative interpretive portraits. In short, the author never loses sight of the fact that drawing, any artistic endeavor in fact, should be fun. All kinds of materials are suggested for the various projects. And the student artwork in this book is very inspiring. Everything from strict realism to whimsical to experimental is shown. Once you learn how to draw realistically you can then break those rules if it suits your creativity better. This book is just plain FUN. FUN! FUN! FUN! Get it along with the Betty Edwards book. They really make a great art-instruction duo.se rules if it suits your creativity better. This book is just plain FUN. FUN! FUN! FUN! Get it along with the Betty Edwards book. They really make a great art-instruction duo.	2002-01-08
US	49824972	R3EKULS9W9R53C	1559346973	823000724	Perspective Drawing	Books	5	14	14	N	N	Definitely worth 5 stars	Perspective drawing is one of the skills many people see as neccessary repertoir for an artist to have. Particularly for subjects such as architecture or some types of still life.  The subjects covered in this book include everything from 1,2 and 3 point perspective to circles, ovals, cylinders, squares, rectangles, inclined planes and an entire chapter on cast shadows during different points throughout the day, shadows on overcast days or from artificial light.<br />The author explains everything in a clear manner without talking down to the reader. He says this book grew out of his 30+ years teaching perspective to art students at San Jose State University. Each concept is shown with plenty of examples and details and the author assumes the reader will practice each of them.  One of the last chapters is on Visualization - basically drawing a picture in perspective using the rules and concepts as test that you truly asorbed all the preceding lessons. While I am sure there are other good books on perspective available, I was quite pleased with this one. A lot of beginning How-To Draw type books never give more than a cursory mention of one or maybe two-point perspective. For the majority of artists this book will be all they'll ever need on the subject. There is enough material here that it will probably take at least 6 months to really get a good feel for everything it covers. The book contains a glossary and index. For the amount of information given it is very affordable.	2002-01-02
US	49824972	R3GV3KEZXWCUW5	0871923874	561661012	From Ordinary To Extraordinary: Art & Design Problem Solving	Books	5	36	37	N	N	Seeing the ordinary as extraordinary	Creating a piece of art can sometimes be a daunting task, the moreso since a great idea for the next project is not something that can be turned on and off like a faucet. That's where a book like this becomes a priceless little gem. Although primarily targeted for K-12 art teachers it gives fascinating project ideas that any artist will find helpful. Throughout the book both 2D and 3D art projects and ideas are given and illustrated with students work throughout.<br />The entire goal of the book is to open student's eyes to seeing everyday things, people and places around them with new eyes and then bringing that experience to life. Things as simple as popcorn or a coffee mug find new life as transformed objects or drawings. Lessons in composition, color, sculpture and meaning are but a few things discussed in detail. Each chapter shows many pieces of art demonstrating how students worked on a particular problem posed by the teacher. A list of suggested supplies is provided so the reader may create their own work from the project discussed. For example, one project was &quot;Expressing Music in Visual Language&quot;. For anyone interested in ideas for new artwork this book would be a worthy investment.	2002-01-02
US	49824972	R2UPEHWKC2PHGD	0486203433	416294154	The Practice of Tempera Painting: Materials and Methods (Dover Art Instruction)	Books	5	90	90	N	Y	Everything You Wanted to Know About Tempera...	There are not many books available on tempera painting mainly because few artists these days have either the time or the patience to grind their own pigments and mix them into a binder. For anyone who does have such an interest egg tempera is a fascinating and beautiful medium to learn. Anyone who has ever tried to scrape off dried egg yolk from a plate will soon realize how incredibly durable a binder it makes for a painting medium. The Practice of Tempera Painting covers a lot of subjects in-depth. Everything from preparing the surface, pigment to egg to water ratios, discussions of various pigments to actual instructions for the traditional hatching and cross-hatching brushstroke technique is shown.<br />The only section readers today might want to supplement is reading up on a more up-to-date book on pigments. Many of the pigments discussed in Thompson's book, while still available, are now known to present health risks. Modern pigments that are safer and just as lightfast (in some cases even more lightfast) are now available that Thompson and painters of the 1930's didn't have. Other than that one caveat this book is a great introduction to egg tempera painting.	2002-01-02
US	49824972	R36DPEC6VV5KWT	0486253406	48164434	Early Medieval Designs from Britain for Artists and Craftspeople (Pictorial Archive Series)	Books	3	4	4	N	N	400+ Historic designs	While this book does show on some of the designs a diagram showing how the patterns are constructed I found it much too sketchy to really follow out how they were made. I ended up buying a companion Dover book titled 'Celtic Art:The Methods of Construction' to get a better sense of how to make these patterns step-by-step. One good thing about this book is that the source for each design shown is documented. Buy this book and the one I listed above and you'll have plenty of designs to use in your own artwork.	2001-12-12
US	49824972	R3OPOJ2MQNBSAO	0715311190	971097717	A Personal View - Pamela Kay - Gouache (Atelier)	Books	3	23	23	N	Y	Not a How - To Type Book	I bought this book because I was intrigued to see a book on painting in gouache (opaque watercolor). On receiving it I was surprised as it was not the type of book I expected it to be. This is not a how-to book despite what the blurbs led me to think. This is more of a book on the life, thoughts and painting experiences of Pamela Kay as she uses gouache, watercolor, pastel and oil to express herself.<br />As such, it is more akin to coffee-table books that display paintings by the artist. She does provide somewhat more detail into the painting and drawing process than a coffee-table art book but not as much as I'd wished. Also, after awhile, I yearned for more variety in the paintings as the book was page after page of bowls of fruit and flowers in vases. There were a few paintings of landscapes and some sketches of people but they were too few. This is not a bad book. It can be quite enjoyable for someone who is a fan of Ms. Kay's paintings. Just understand it is more about Ms. Kay and a display of her paintings and musings than tips or techniques for painting in gouache yourself.	2001-12-12
US	49824972	RNTTH7JI52RWZ	0823002918	767836969	The Art of Watercolor	Books	5	47	48	N	N	College Level Instruction Without the College Textbook Price	There are two things about this book I think make it a great book for any watercolorist's library. One is the sheer variety of paintings shown and the other is the numerous 'assignments' at the end of each chapter.<br />As another reviewer stated this book does not show you only one or a few artist's techniques. Rather it covers a broad range of techniques, art styles and artists and shows a diverse array of watercolor paintings. Everything from traditional representational paintings to contemporary and experimental works are shown. And all are used to illustrate that chapter's main point that they appear in. Works from famous artists to current living ones are displayed.<br />Each chapter ends with exercises designed to let you practice principles, techniques or styles the preceding pages discussed. Now some people don't like or need such 'assignments'. But other people, like me, enjoy them as a challenge and as a way to see that they've not only read the chapter but can practice till they've learned it. If you don't care for such things it's easy to skip over them. But I actually found some of these projects fun to do.<br />I have a sketchbook of watercolor paper that I use strictly for trying out projects from my various watercolor or other painting books. It is separate from my other sketchbooks or paintings and its sole purpose is strictly to practice, even copy, the demo projects and assignments. Even the greatest art masters learned first by copying the masters before them. There is so much to learn from this book. Not only how to paint in watercolor but also some art history as well. Definitely a recommended buy.	2001-12-12
US	49824972	R1DG18RARHBSKL	0823057089	571176688	How to Make a Watercolor Paint Itself: Experimental Techniques for Achieving Realistic Effects	Books	5	208	209	N	N	Not For Beginners	This book is definitely not for a beginning watercolorist and I don't think the author and publishers intended it to be. If you are just beginning to paint in watercolor in a realistic style I recommend starting with books aimed for beginners first. That said, for high-intermediate to advanced watercolorists who want to learn new ways to add life to their paintings this is one of the best books out there using the pouring process as the primary means vs. painting with a brush. That doesn't mean Ms. Engle doesn't use brushes, it's just that they are only one of several techniques at her disposal.<br />I got this book after having read Creative Discoveries in Watermedia. So I understand why the title says 'Experimental Techniques for Achieving Realistic Effects'. Many of the same techniques from the Creative Discoveries book are used here as well. Everything from squirt bottles to pouring the paints and tipping the board to let the paint run where it will to textural techniqes for added interest. All the chapters introduce fun methods for paiting but I'm glad design (aka composition) has a chapter of its own. All the techniques in the world won't save a painting with a poor design (that's when you just crop it and make it a mixed media experimental painting!) :)<br />My favorite chapter is the last one. It discusses experimental techiques, mediums, methods, etc. This is the only watercolor book I've ever seen that mentions W&amp;N's Aquapasto medium, a product I love for adding texture elements to some of my more experimental paintings. If you're an intermediate to advanced watercolorist looking for new ideas you'll find plenty of them here.	2001-12-12
US	49824972	R3QRPGH2T88YJX	0486271269	203263886	Treasury of Ironwork Designs: 469 Examples from Historical Sources (Dover Pictorial Archive)	Books	4	10	10	N	N	Beautiful Work	I have a different use for this book than perhaps the typical buyer. I bought it because I love adapting these iron designs into borders or patterns for my pen and ink drawings and paintings. Each page was such a delight when I discovered this book I bought it immediately. You need not use it as a home furnishings book. It works just as well as an inspiring art book.	2001-12-12
US	49824972	R3EXFOQ11LJVNK	0823056899	171649774	Painting the Colors of Nature: A Watercolorist's Guide	Books	3	16	16	N	Y	Good for the Paintings	I'm not a fan of the instruction format the publisher decided upon for this book. Complete paintings are shown with a detailed description by the author of what she painted how, why and where. It's an approach that reminds me of written instructions for finding a road as opposed to drawing a map. I happen to be more of a fan of the step-by-step painting in progress form of instruction. If you don't like step-by-step or don't mind all-in-one-shot instructions next to the complete painting then this book will probably rank higher. Having said that - the instructions the author provides are detailed and solid.<br />The paintings are in a very loose manner so don't expect highly detailed, color saturated paintings. Subjects range from landscapes (the most common) to florals to country cottages in meadows.	2001-12-06
US	49824972	R3JAONLV6TEGNB	0891347143	670559912	Step-By-Step Guide to Painting Realistic Watercolors	Books	5	13	14	N	N	Takes a Mid-Level Beginner to High-Intermediate Stage	This was one of the first watercolor books I ever bought when I first wanted to learn how to paint. First of all I'd like to list some of it's stronger points.<br />1. The projects are beautiful with the subjects being mostly still-life (although there is one animal project of baby ducklings<br />2. The author lists exactly the colors and brands she used in each project, the specific mixes of each colors and step-by-step directions for you to follow at each stage. Each project has stage-by-stage photos so you can see what your painting-in-progress should look like at the end of each stage.<br />3. The \\"Critique Your Work\\" tip section. She lists some questions to ask yourself as you examine the finished painting to see what you did well and what can be improved.<br />4. The \\"how moist is moist?\\" examination of loading a brush with color. This is one technique most other watercolor books either don't mention at all or if they do they don't explain it. The author gives photos and a detailed description of exactly what she means by a phrase such as \\"loaded brush\\", \\"moistened brush\\" etc.<br />5. The section on values and painting a controlled wash. There is a page devoted to common problems that beginners can run into when trying to paint washes - complete with examples of some of these problems (streaky wash, backruns, etc.) and how to correct them or avoid them.<br />It helps to buy the paints she recommends because it will eliminate one variarable that might make it harder to lead to a satisfying result. It is possible to use other brands (I did) but I recommend at least try to use the same pigment, if possible, as she lists in the book. For some people who are on a limited budget or don't want to invest in a lot of paint to be used only for this book's projects they might consider this a drawback. Also, this book doesn't cover painting portraits, wildlife, landscapes, seascapes, etc. It will be of most interest to fans of still-life subjects. Overall, I'm glad I own it as it is a big help to further development of techniques with watercolor.is a big help to further development of techniques with watercolor.	2001-11-23
US	49824972	RGBTBYC44VS7K	1564962660	712502744	Creative Colored Pencil Landscapes (Creative Coloured Pencil)	Books	4	23	23	N	N	A &quot;Best of Colored Pencil&quot; with How - To's	The best way to describe all the books in this series is a &quot;Best of Colored Pencil&quot; but combined with a short how-to essay showing how each featured artist approached the painting. The approach of the book was simple. A group of artists were each given one of three landscape photos and then asked to create a colored pencil painting using the photo as a reference.<br />The variety of interpretations was inspiring. One entry particularly delighted me. One lady must have seen her landscape photo as a reminder of China or Japan. The resulting landscape she created from the photo took on a beautiful Oriental quality. Each artist listed the materials they used, the colors used and most had a few step-by-step thumbnail sized photos of the pictures in progress as well as the final painting in larger format. I most treasure it simply because the creative responses to something as simple as the same 3 photos lead to so many different results. Books like this are invaluable for helping to inspire creative ideas - especially if you're suffering from &quot;blank page&quot; syndrome. My one and only wish is that it had been longer...it's that good. All in all, a very worthwhile book to own.	2001-11-18
US	49824972	RMB54K1LLMBLD	1581800266	542869709	Colored Pencil Solution Book	Books	5	150	151	N	N	Would Give it a 6 if I Could	Get this book. Really. Even if you work in colored pencil only occasionally it is worth it. This book is as close to being a reference guide on anything to do with realistic colored pencil work I've ever seen. The only things missing are styles that are more experimental in approach and no focus on water-soluable colored pencils.<br />Some of the things I particularly liked:<br />1. Focus on specific name-brands of colored pencils, their binders, the effects this has on different types of paper, etc.<br />2. Techniques - such as:<br />  a. mixing colors, how to apply colors evenly on varying degrees of rough to smooth paper, tonal gradations.<br />  b. linear, stroke overlap, circular/oval strokes, burnishing.<br />  c. liquifying dry colored pencil layers with solvents.<br />3. Underpainting in grey tones to get values correct and more vibrant color applied on top.<br />4. The actual patterns of each of the demonstrations shown step-by-step in the book. So you can actually practice each technique used in each of the demonstrations. Each demo gives a recipe of the &quot;ingredients&quot; used.<br />5. A section on common mishaps or mistakes along with tricks to fix them.<br />And this is only a portion of the things you can learn. I would like to mention one other thing. Most of the subjects chosen for the book all lean to the still-life or floral arrangement category. So you won't find in-depth discussions of skin tones for portraiture or fur for wildlife paintings. Even so, I believe the consistent high quality of the artwork displayed and wealth of techniques make it a worthwile addition to any colored pencil artists library.	2001-11-18
US	49824972	R2ND86HDUPMXI3	1581800002	91880154	Chinese Painting Techniques for Exquisite Watercolors	Books	5	88	88	N	N	Eastern Painting Meets West	Born and raised in China, the author, Lian Quan Zhen was trained as a physician who later emigrated to the U.S. Now living in California he holds workshops demonstrating his breathtaking approach to Chinese painting. The author's mastery ranges from strict traditional Chinese painting to combining these methods and style with some Western watercolor techniques.<br />In the process of &quot;oohing&quot; and &quot;ahhing&quot; over this book I learned many fascinating facts about Chinese paintings. For example, the inks/watercolors are made of plants and minerals and use glues as the binder. I also learned that the papers used for Chinese painting require a different stretching and preparation method than I'm used to for Western-style watercolors. The author also covers the differences between Western brushes and Chinese/Japanese brushes.<br />Mr. Zhen lists and explains the 6 Laws of Painting that were first formulated  by Hsieh Ho of the Eastern Tin dynasty (317 - 420 A. D.) Along the way I learned some interesting historical facts on the evolution of painting in China during the different dynasties. The 3 styles of painting are introduced and later discussed. These are: Detail, which is what a beginner first learns. Spontaneous, also known as the Scholar Style, which is learned much later. And finally a mix of the preceding two which the author simply labels Half-Detail/Half-Spontaneous. Composition explained some of the traditional designs used. S-curve, C-curve, balance and weight, etc. Calligraphy and chops (a type of sigil-mark) are as important as the artwork to the final design.<br />The rest of the book explores in detail both mini-demonstrations and full step-by-step demonstrations of full paintings in Mr. Zhen's style. He effortlessly moves between traditional Chinese painting to combining it with western watercolor techniques. The result is breathtaking. The subject matter for the paintings are landscapes, birds, goldfish and Koi. There are chapters showing how to sketch and paint each of the animals listed above as well as backgrounds. And this only scratches the surface of the information and how-to's detailed. Anyone getting this book not only gets a great foundation in Chinese painting but also some interesting historical facts which makes it even more fun to read.wing how to sketch and paint each of the animals listed above as well as backgrounds. And this only scratches the surface of the information and how-to's detailed. Anyone getting this book not only gets a great foundation in Chinese painting but also some interesting historical facts which makes it even more fun to read.	2001-11-18
US	49824972	R1ASU0CGSFN32X	0823023508	439745958	How to Cut Drawings on Scratchboard	Books	4	20	20	N	Y	Does Exactly What it Says	If you've ever wanted to learn scratchboard (scraperboard in the UK) this slender book is a great place to start. The explanations are clear and detailed. Different types of scratch marks on different scratchboard surfaces are shown with plenty of illustrations so you can see what all the marks look like in finished pieces. There are chapters discussing light, shading and blending techniques, tonal values, patterns, use of mechanical aids such as french curves, etc. One of the last chapters of the book shows a gallery of scratchboard art.<br />I particularly liked the fact this book demonstrates a lot of different subjects. I've noticed that scratchboard art (at least on the Internet) seems to be dominated by wildlife art so it is refreshing to see other subjects shown here. The only subject this book doesn't cover which some of my other scratchboard books do is the use of color. However, I am trying to grade this book fairly by considering when it was first published - 1949. At that time color wasn't as much of a concern - particularly for a little book that was geared as an introduction to the medium. By today's standards I think it rates a 4 simply because there are other scratchboard books available that also include discussions of color. In 1949 I would've said it rated a 5. It also has the virtue of being more affordable than any other book on scratchboard I've yet found (and I have quite a few in my collection - including some that are out-of-print). If you are thinking of trying out scratchboard or are just a scratchboard fan this little book is a worthwile addition to any collection.	2001-11-17
US	49824972	R13RO1VAVDH1AN	1851493077	308110913	Engraved Glass: International Contemporary Artists	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Eye-Popping Engraved Glass Art	Since I've begun to make some beginner projects in the art of etched/engraved glass I've grown to appreciate the artistry and skill it takes to create the works shown in this book. Each page has a large photo displaying a piece of art along with some text that the artist contributed on their thoughts about it. An early chapter explains in detail what each of the methods the artist used means. So there are detailed explanations of the techniques of etching, flexible drill, graal, point engraving, sandblasting and wheel engraving.<br />There are works showing not only engraved glass but some engraved pieces that include flamework, painted glass, enamelling, cut gem insets, etched calligraphy, etc. Many of the pieces of glass used were already colored - they didn't need to be painted. The diversity of the artwork displayed is a feast for the eyes. Each one of the artists chosen for inclusion in the book has won awards and international recognition. It would be of interest to anyone who is beginning to learn how to etch glass. It also makes a beautiful addition to anyone's coffee table.	2001-11-17
US	49824972	R3LUN9LT1WBXYC	0965824810	507106586	Etched Glass: Techniques & Designs	Books	5	21	21	N	N	Drop-Dead Gorgeous Book	I credit this book hands-down with inspiring and introducing me to the beautiful art of glass etching. Page after page of breathtaking sophisticated etched glass carvings are interspersed with photos of smaller examples easily within reach of a beginner. The authors have had over 25 years in the business and now hold beginner through master level classes at their art studio in New Mexico.<br />This is a thorough book describing the various methods of etching, the materials, types of glass, types of techniques, etc. For example, etching cream - which is what I'm learning to use as a beginner is only capable of surface etching. Even so, this simple technique can make very beautiful designs on different types of glass. I've been practicing on jelly and juice jars I keep after finishing off said jelly or juice. That way, if or when I mess up it doesn't matter as much like it would had I practiced on an expensive wine glass or bowl. Soon I'll be ready to move on to the next project and type of glass to practice on. The authors discuss in particular detail surface etching, carving and shading. Applying and cutting various types of resists and etching creams, numbering patterns so you know which order to etch for a proper 3-dimensional effect, beveling, how to hold the carving/blasting wand, etc. is all here. Most of these techniques can be done now (at least on a small scale) with a small air compressor like the ones used for airbrush, portable blaster and tabletop sandblasting cabinets. Chapter 8 gives extensive advise on the various types of equipment (from hobbiest tabletop units to industrial room-sized) used for sandblast etching along with each piece of equipment's pros and cons.<br />I'm looking at one tabletop unit that is moderately priced (less than $270). With this one tabletop unit (which the book shows a photo of and discusses) anyone can start recreating even the most sophisticated designs and projects included in this book for beginners and beyond. Detailed step-by-step photos for each project are shown in each chapter and the patterns for each project are provided in Appendix B. The other Appendices cover a glossary of terms, suppliers of etching machines, stencil sources, sources for glass, further reading and handy reference charts covering Moh's hardness scale, volume/linear/pressure measurements and abrasive grit sizes including microgrit powders. It really presents a very broad overview of everything one needs to get started making beautiful glass etching/carvings.<br />And I want to stess again that page after page is a visual feast of gallery designs of what professional glass etchers can do. The cover of the book does not even begin to show how beautiful the artwork displayed inside really is. I can not stress this point enough. The artwork shown inside is truly worthy of anyone's coffee table. The fantastic thing is that I'm having a ton of fun learning this beautiful art - and all thanks to this one comprehensive book. Bravo! I want a sequel!ed step-by-step photos for each project are shown in each chapter and the patterns for each project are provided in Appendix B. The other Appendices cover a glossary of terms, suppliers of etching machines, stencil sources, sources for glass, further reading and handy reference charts covering Moh's hardness scale, volume/linear/pressure measurements and abrasive grit sizes including microgrit powders. It really presents a very broad overview of everything one needs to get started making beautiful glass etching/carvings. <br />And I want to stess again that page after page is a visual feast of gallery designs of what professional glass etchers can do. The cover of the book does not even begin to show how beautiful the artwork displayed inside really is. I can not stress this point enough. The artwork shown inside is truly worthy of anyone's coffee table. The fantastic thing is that I'm having a ton of fun learning this beautiful art - and all thanks to this one comprehensive book. Bravo! I want a sequel!	2001-11-12
US	49824972	RTFB1MEEZTWBV	1564963292	896542058	Paper Sculpture: A Step-by-Step Guide	Books	5	18	20	N	N	Relief-Style Paper Sculpture	I liked this book's diversity of relief-style paper sculptures. By relief-style I mean paper that is cut and then folded, rolled, mounted, etc. onto a flat surface. Other types of paper sculpture, such as cast paper sculpture are not covered. If you are interested in other ways to use paper I recommend the book The Art of Sculpting with Paper by Michael G. Lafosse.<br />This book is a combination gallery of each artist's work plus one project each artist did step-by-step demonstrating their techniques. The beginning chapter gives an overview of the basic techniques every relief-paper sculptor uses and types of paper suitable for relief paper-sculpting. It then launches into the artist demo/gallery format. The nice thing about the step-by-step demos is that you can copy that project for practice if you wish (although patterns are not provided so you would need to recreate the pattern on your own.) Each step-by-step demo is definitely of professional quality. Most, if not all, of the artists featured are graphic illustrators who work on these kind of projects as a living for various commercial clients. Therefore, you can expect that the art displayed inside is of similar quality to the cover photo.<br />Using this book I've begun a small project that I designed myself. It's definitely fun but I can see how it could become more time consumming. One thing I would've liked to have seen in this book was an estimate of the time it took for each artist to complete their project (not including the very initial sketch design). This would give me a better estimate of how long a similar project might be for me (although I'd estimate about 1/2 to 2/3 more time since I'm a beginner). I've enjoyed this book so much I plan to get the sequel. It's an excellent introduction to this style of paper art.	2001-11-11
US	49824972	R2Z4ULU39YQWIK	0891349162	565187187	Painting Spectacular Light Effects in Watercolor	Books	4	31	31	N	N	Great examination of how light affects paintings	This book is aimed for an intermediate to advanced level watercolorist. The majority of the book focuses on the author's fascination with portraying light as it hits colorful subjects. The subjects range from beautiful colored glass such as wine and perfume decanters to brass musical instruments to breathtaking architectural and landscape paintings.<br />Other than the first chapter that gives a very quick overview of a few techniques such as blotting, drybrushing, scraping, pouring, etc. it is not an overly comprehensive book on every aspect of watercolor painting. For example, only 1-2 page cursory discussions are given to subjects such as composition, creating textures, values, leading eye movement arrangements of a painting, etc. When they are discussed the subjects are always tied back to the book's main theme - light. So eye movement is discussed, for example, in how light helps achieve this goal to make a strong painting.<br />Another subject which the author doesn't address is color mixing and color theory. Some of the paintings use of alizarin crimson which some new painters may not know is a fugitive color. Fortunately there are 2 relatively new very permanent pigments on the market that are dead-on ringers for traditional alizarin crimson when you mix them together. W&amp;N Permanent Carmine, which is a quinacridone/diketo-pyrole pigment + any brand with only PR122 as the listed pigment. In fact, W&amp;N offers these two pigments as a convenience color mix named Permanent Alizarin Crimson. I have painted washes of my true alizarin crimson right next to the quinacridone/PR122 mix and could not tell the difference. Neither could my boyfriend when I asked him to try to pick which was the real alizarin crimson and which was the mix.<br />One of the most intriguing chapters was on painting light at night. The cover painting is only one of the types of night scenes this chapter covers. There are others such as streetlight fog at night and architectural spotlighting. I am especially envious of the author's beautiful architectural themed paintings. I'm still trying to get down perspective myself so anyone who demonstrates such mastery is someone I pay attention to.<br />Overall this book is a very good look at seeing how one element of painting - light - can be pushed to amazing effect. It is fascinating to see how just one of the criteria (in this case, light) needed for a successful realistic painting can contribute to creating your own signature style. And although I said this book is of most use to intermediate to advanced watercolorists it can not fail to help beginners since the paintings are so inspiring and beginners will eventually move up to intermediate level anyway.ting. I am especially envious of the author's beautiful architectural themed paintings. I'm still trying to get down perspective myself so anyone who demonstrates such mastery is someone I pay attention to. <br />Overall this book is a very good look at seeing how one element of painting - light - can be pushed to amazing effect. It is fascinating to see how just one of the criteria (in this case, light) needed for a successful realistic painting can contribute to creating your own signature style. And although I said this book is of most use to intermediate to advanced watercolorists it can not fail to help beginners since the paintings are so inspiring and beginners will eventually move up to intermediate level anyway.	2001-11-11
US	49824972	R2EQGL4D6FQ2ZK	0486227308	127759179	The Elements of Drawing (Dover Art Instruction)	Books	5	189	191	N	N	Interesting Treatise on Drawing from a 19th Century Master	John Rushkin originally published this little volume in the winter of 1856/57. It promptly sold out and went into multiple printings. It is surprisingly still relevant today. Rushkin gives the reader many exercises beginning with a dip pen and ink and later moving to pencil and then watercolor (which in the 19th century was classified under drawing). I was so intrigued I actually bought a speedball dip pen and some india ink and began to practice the many exercises he gives. They work. By the time I finished the ink exercises I noticed a definite improvement from my early attempts compared to the later ones. And I am continuing the exercises.<br />Another fascinating aspect of this book is the snapshot it gives into the mind of a prominant 19th century art critic. Rushkin not only was a master draughtsman and painter but a widely respected art critic in his day. Monet was quoted by a British journalist to have said, &quot;90% of the theory of Impressionist painting is in Rushkin's Elements of Drawing.&quot;  A young George Seurat obtained a copy and admitted to having read it carefully. Now I'm no Monet or Seurat but I figure if these guys valued Rushkin's instruction I should certainly pay attention to what he had to say.<br />Rushkin explains exactly what the goal of each exercise is. He also recommends specific paintings or drawings to examine along with critiques of why this or that area in the drawing/painting is superior or lacking. He strongly believed it more profitable to study in-depth a few highly superior drawings/paintings to a wider assortment of middling/average execution. And he believed this even of famous artist's work - famous or not he advises to ignore for the moment their less masterful work and focus on the truly great ones. Rushkin pulled no punches. The entire treatise is full of his opinions right along side the exercises - yet I would say they are not opinions without merit. He gives you something to think about when looking at works of the art masters and something to strive for in your drawings and paintings so that you can become more than just technically competent. He addresses the heart and soul of drawing and painting. It made me think of why this or that particular line, shading or painting technique in an art master's drawing/painting touches me the way it does.<br />This is the best marriage between technical competence and artistry. And you grow in understanding that all the exercises he gives are only in service to the spirit of art. It is an emphasis that most modern how-to books don't touch. Analysis this deep in modern art books are left for books that are advertised as art critiques. Since almost all my art books fall under the &quot;how-to&quot; category (as anyone who's read my other book reviews will see) I found this critique aspect rather refreshing and wanting to read more such types of books.<br />I strongly recommend this book. Despite the lack of photos or modern step-by-step illustrations (the illustrations are line art - the most up-to-date technology for book illustration then available in an affordably priced book) I think it is very worth getting and reading. Perhaps artists who have been formally trained in universities or art academies will find this kind of instruction typical. But for someone like me who is entirely self-taught from the books he/she buys it is a great investment into expanding boundaries and knowledge of art in general.he art masters and something to strive for in your drawings and paintings so that you can become more than just technically competent. He addresses the heart and soul of drawing and painting. It made me think of why this or that particular line, shading or painting technique in an art master's drawing/painting touches me the way it does. <br />This is the best marriage between technical competence and artistry. And you grow in understanding that all the exercises he gives are only in service to the spirit of art. It is an emphasis that most modern how-to books don't touch. Analysis this deep in modern art books are left for books that are advertised as art critiques. Since almost all my art books fall under the &quot;how-to&quot; category (as anyone who's read my other book reviews will see) I found this critique aspect rather refreshing and wanting to read more such types of books.<br />I strongly recommend this book. Despite the lack of photos or modern step-by-step illustrations (the illustrations are line art - the most up-to-date technology for book illustration then available in an affordably priced book) I think it is very worth getting and reading. Perhaps artists who have been formally trained in universities or art academies will find this kind of instruction typical. But for someone like me who is entirely self-taught from the books he/she buys it is a great investment into expanding boundaries and knowledge of art in general.	2001-11-11
US	49824972	R1RIQT25RRVWX9	0967962803	270071315	The Wilcox Guide To The Best Watercolor Paints	Books	1	83	92	N	N	Out-Dated and Misleading Information	I bought this book expecting scientifically verified tests of the various pigments used in all the major (and some minor) brands of watercolor paint. Sadly this is not the case. First of all nowhere in this revised edition is it stated real-world testing of the various paint brands and pigments was re-done. Since the book was first published practically every watercolor manufacturer has revamped their line to offer more lightfast and permanent pigments. Nowhere in this book did I see evidence of new testing and a lot of information is out-dated. Quite a few brands that don't exist anymore are still included. For example, the U.S. corporation Colart Americas, Inc. (owners of Liquitex since year 2000 [and now also the owner corporation of famed Winsor &amp; Newton!], quit making Liquitex watercolors years ago in order to focus that brand more on the acrylic market.<br />The guide states no evaluation of any companies' brands of student grade watercolors was done - only artist grade paints are covered. But here's an example of why I'm suspicious of the testing claimed by this book - I bought some DaVinci watercolors based on the praise they received in the book and immediately noticed the brand is &quot;student grade&quot; in quality. The filler used is so high that the chalky appearance of the watercolor squeezed out onto my palette is visible to the naked eye once its had a few minutes to begin to dry. It doesn't have any clarity or beauty of my Winsor and Newton, Daniel Smith or Holbein watercolors. If you wish to see it for yourself merely buy a single tube of DaVinci watercolor, squeeze out some onto your palette, mix a small puddle of the paint with water then let the puddle of paint dry a bit. You will see exactly what I'm talking about. If visible-to-the-naked-eye chalky filler doesn't shout &quot;student grade paint&quot; I don't know what does.<br />Another note about DaVinci watercolors - Mr. Wilcox has contracted the DaVinci company to supply the watercolor paints used in his own paint brand for the School of Color correspondence color mixing course. Nowhere in the guide does he disclose this commercial arrangement with the DaVinci paint company. I think it only fair that artists should be made aware of this fact in a guide that posits itself as an un-biased guide to watercolor brands.<br />I also found his constant harping on &quot;gummy&quot; paint odd. Since I like to be able to control the runny-ness of my paint I don't see thick-or-thin-ness of paint out of the tube as a problem. How difficult can it be to simply add water or ox gall medium anyway? And what does &quot;gumminess&quot; have to do with the lightfastness of the paint being discussed - which is the main thing this book claims to be handing out grades on?<br />Given these flaws - inaccurate information, very out-of-date information and less than un-biased reporting I can not recommend this book for watercolorists in good conscience. A better book is Hilary Page's Guide to Watercolor Paints. Furthermore, she explains exactly how she conducted her tests and under what conditions. An added bonus is that she tries to keep the book current by giving regular updates on new pigments, new watercolor brands or reformulations of existing brands on her website. It's really sad that I give such a low mark to Wilcox's Guide to Best Watercolor Paints. If the author took the time and effort to conduct tests similar to what Hilary did it could be a great resource. What a wasted opportunity....r paints used in his own paint brand for the School of Color correspondence color mixing course. Nowhere in the guide does he disclose this commercial arrangement with the DaVinci paint company. I think it only fair that artists should be made aware of this fact in a guide that posits itself as an un-biased guide to watercolor brands. <br />I also found his constant harping on &quot;gummy&quot; paint odd. Since I like to be able to control the runny-ness of my paint I don't see thick-or-thin-ness of paint out of the tube as a problem. How difficult can it be to simply add water or ox gall medium anyway? And what does &quot;gumminess&quot; have to do with the lightfastness of the paint being discussed - which is the main thing this book claims to be handing out grades on?<br />Given these flaws - inaccurate information, very out-of-date information and less than un-biased reporting I can not recommend this book for watercolorists in good conscience. A better book is Hilary Page's Guide to Watercolor Paints. Furthermore, she explains exactly how she conducted her tests and under what conditions. An added bonus is that she tries to keep the book current by giving regular updates on new pigments, new watercolor brands or reformulations of existing brands on her website. It's really sad that I give such a low mark to Wilcox's Guide to Best Watercolor Paints. If the author took the time and effort to conduct tests similar to what Hilary did it could be a great resource. What a wasted opportunity....	2001-10-22
US	49824972	R3940S01YSSW70	1929834063	255978122	Harley Brown's Eternal Truths for Every Artist	Books	5	103	103	N	N	A Few Appetizers of Eternal Truths	A lot of reviewers give their reaction to the book reviewed. While that's helpful I'm going to do something a bit different. I'm going to show a few examples of some of the &quot;eternal truths&quot; the author gives.<br />1. The author on beginning a painting of a ballerina and after explaining in detail several of his measurement techniques continues, &quot;Believe Your Eye. But Trust Measurements - ...every professional artist I've ever seen, without exception measures. You need to do it too. ...it will save your artistic life.&quot;<br />2. From the chapter 'Composition - Who Needs It?' - &quot;Not Everything Should Be Equal! - We have a natural (though distressing) tendency to equalize everything in art, which is a problem. Placing equal amounts of warm and cool in a painting, and equal amounts of light and dark, can make a painting look weak and indecisive. Face it: dominance of color or value is easy to talk about, but much harder to pull off. That's one reason why many pros do one or more, sometimes many more, small studies to arrive at one powerful visualization of the intendeded work. Then they'll follow the little study closely to avoid their natural tendency to equalize.&quot;<br />3. From Chapter 6 - &quot;Edges, in case you haven't figured it out by now, are among the half-dozen most important things in a painting.&quot;... &quot;The more gradually an object turns away from the light, the softer and wider its shadow edge will be&quot;... &quot;As a shadow goes from light to dark, the soft transitional edge is called the 'core'... &quot;These principles go way back in art. The Impressionists understood them well. Hardly an artist in history, painting a nice pink cheek, would miss the opportunity to make it pinkest just where it goes into shadow.&quot;<br />4. From &quot;30 'Magic' Solutions to Common Problems&quot; - 2. We've all seen the stereotypical artist holding his thumb before his squinting eye. He may be measuring proportions, but he might have something else in mind: comparing relative values of the objects before him. His thumb has a constant value to compare them with. Try it right now and see the revelation.&quot;<br />Hopefully this gives an idea of some of the insights this book contains. It's chock full of step-by-step examples demonstrating all the hints, tips and tricks. I re-read this book frequently. Often I'll pick a page and then critique a picture I'm working on to see if I've forgotten or misapplied one of the principles mentioned on that page. Sometimes I'll do the same for a technique. It's a good way to reinforce what I've learned and strive to improve. Artists of any medium can benefit from this great book.something else in mind: comparing relative values of the objects before him. His thumb has a constant value to compare them with. Try it right now and see the revelation.&quot;<br />Hopefully this gives an idea of some of the insights this book contains. It's chock full of step-by-step examples demonstrating all the hints, tips and tricks. I re-read this book frequently. Often I'll pick a page and then critique a picture I'm working on to see if I've forgotten or misapplied one of the principles mentioned on that page. Sometimes I'll do the same for a technique. It's a good way to reinforce what I've learned and strive to improve. Artists of any medium can benefit from this great book.	2001-10-18
US	49824972	RV70693M37ER9	0823028887	279845682	Luminous Brush: Painting with Egg Tempera	Books	5	36	37	N	Y	The Only Current 'How-To' for Egg Tempera Painting	While I own and have read Daniel V. Thompson, Jr.'s book The Practice of Tempera Painting I'm glad I have Sultan's book as well. I don't know how hatching and cross-hatching can be construed as &quot;uninspired&quot; since this is the traditional method egg tempera artists employ to create paintings. Neither is Sultan's book a &quot;dumbed-down&quot; instruction manual of Thompson's book. The Luminous Brush is a complete book on egg tempera painting itself. The one main technique Thompson's book covers which The Luminous Brush doesn't is gilding.<br />The Luminous Brush will appeal to people who appreciate the many step-by-step photos showing how to prepare your own grounds, the amount of pigment paste to egg yolk to water ratios, etc. The author provides exercises for the reader using ink and/or gouache for practicing egg tempera painting techniques so the transition to egg tempera itself will be easy. There are chapters on painting landscapes, skies, rough and smooth textures as well as a chapter showing new experimental approaches to egg tempera painting by guest artists. There is a bibliography and sources selling pigments, grounds or other materials for use in egg tempera painting.<br />Unless you are planning to employ gold gilding in your egg tempera paintings or want to read chapters on which paint pigments to buy that were current as of 1936 (some now known to present health risks and made obsolete by safer, lightfast alternatives) The Luminous Brush will be just fine for anyone wanting to get started.	2001-10-17
US	49824972	R3PAFH5NE50WFT	1929834012	600668262	Tom Lynch's Watercolor Secrets	Books	5	47	47	N	N	Breathtaking! Not Just for Watercolorists	This is one of my favorite watercolor books. There are so many positive things to say about this book its hard to know where to begin. But I'll try to point out some of the things that I've found unique to this book from all the others I have in my collection.<br />1. The &quot;Salvage That Student Painting&quot; demonstrations. Hands down this has got to be one of THE most interesting and innovative things I've ever seen in any painting book in ANY medium. Tom takes various student paintings, shows exactly where and why certain areas, techniques, etc aren't working. He then procedes to take it and transform it into a radiant painting using the many techniques and principles he's stressed in preceding chapters. It is literally the painting equivalent of the &quot;before&quot; and &quot;after&quot; photos you see of  beauty make-over infomercials. The difference in these before and after paintings is enough to convince even the toughest critic that Mr. Lynch deserves the acclaim he receives.<br />2. The &quot;Impact Area&quot; chapter. I have other books that have mentioned the need for a focal point but none has shown in such depth and detail exactly why one is needed, the benefits, how to use it to your advantage or how to go about it. I especially liked his advise and technique assignment for every day - the Impact Sketch. Your sketchbook becomes a tool for practicing and strengthening the skills taught in the various chapters.<br />It's full of advice and tips. Things I'd not thought of before or had not seen quite so clearly as he states them. You get advice such as, &quot;Think of the impact area as a separate painting-within-a-painting, and develop it accordingly. Then, as you work on the rest of the painting, always compare the secondary areas to the impact area, making sure it continues to be the brightest, most powerful, most interesting spot in the whole picture.&quot;. Or a chapter titled Expression and Mood with the advice, &quot;The key to this whole concept is pick no more than two feelings that you want to communicate, then exaggerate them!&quot; and  &quot;Sometimes the big 5 - technique, color, shape, value and impact area - should take a back seat to expression!&quot;<br />Throughout all of this are beautiful paintings - some followed step by step using his tips, tricks, advice, etc. Or others like the student paintings where you learn by seeing them get a beauty makeover. And some as just full glorious finished paintings. Each chapter is color coded you can flip to exactly the chapter and advice you need. There are also chapters dealing with value, color, techniques and shapes. The final chapter shows both demonstrations and a gallery of his unique paintings. Practically my only quibble with this book is that it doesn't have an index. Other than that one negative this is one of the best art books I own. The principles and advice can be used with any medium, not just watercolor. If you paint or draw - no matter what the medium - you will enjoy this book.ncept is pick no more than two feelings that you want to communicate, then exaggerate them!&quot; and  &quot;Sometimes the big 5 - technique, color, shape, value and impact area - should take a back seat to expression!&quot;<br />Throughout all of this are beautiful paintings - some followed step by step using his tips, tricks, advice, etc. Or others like the student paintings where you learn by seeing them get a beauty makeover. And some as just full glorious finished paintings. Each chapter is color coded you can flip to exactly the chapter and advice you need. There are also chapters dealing with value, color, techniques and shapes. The final chapter shows both demonstrations and a gallery of his unique paintings. Practically my only quibble with this book is that it doesn't have an index. Other than that one negative this is one of the best art books I own. The principles and advice can be used with any medium, not just watercolor. If you paint or draw - no matter what the medium - you will enjoy this book.	2001-07-04
US	49824972	R24Y95VLK7UBIW	0891347992	671714228	200 Great Painting Ideas for Artists	Books	2	19	21	N	N	Ho-Hum...	Sigh...I was rather disappointed with this book. I expected so much more from it than what was delivered. For a book that purports to give ideas for increasing originality in your own paintings it is surprisingly unoriginal.<br />You get suggestions such as &quot;Add a Still Lake to Your Landscape&quot;, &quot;Paint a Wild Animal&quot;,  &quot;Capture Animals in Their Natural Habitat&quot;, &quot;Paint a Season of the Year&quot; and &quot;Paint an Arrangement of Dried Flowers&quot;, etc. etc. etc. I'm not kidding. This is what is passed on as expanding creative boundaries. It is filled to the brim with cliched themes that are supposed to help spark creativity and originality. Some suggestions begin to show promise but there were just too few overall. One of the good things about the book is that at least many of the paintings were beautiful (although boring in my opinion - victims of the cliches they were illustrating).<br />Which frankly leaves me baffled as to why it was felt to be neccessary to publish this book. Save your change and get books that showcase award winning paintings such as one of the &quot;Best of&quot; books for watercolors, oils, pastels, colored pencil or other media. You'll get plenty of inspired ideas from these type of books and a lot more original ideas for inspiration.	2001-06-25
US	49824972	R1A6OWX0KFCEAC	0743510151	71883060	German: 2nd Ed. (Pimsleur Quick and Simple)	Books	4	29	29	N	N	Speak A Little German Fluently	I'd heard and read about the Pimsleur tapes and was curious to see if they could add anything to  the lessons in my Hugo German in Three Months course. And I can say there are both pros and cons.<br />The Pros: You absolutely will actually begin THINKING in German with these tapes from the get go. There are three speakers - 2 native Germans (male &amp; female) and an english-speaking tutor. The Pimsleur method seems to be based on a special (and HIGHLY effective) form of drilling and recall. The tutor and native speakers will put the words into small blocks (which you again are drilled endlessly on). From the short blocks they will then show you how to insert other short word blocks (again always words you'd previouly been drilled extensively on) to make progressively longer and more complex sentences. Then the tutor will begin to set up a scenario (for example, you sitting on the bus next to a woman and wanting to start a conversation with her). One of the scenarios will be something like, &quot;Tell the woman you understand only a little German&quot;. Which in this case is the phrase, &quot;Ich verstehe nur ein bischen Deutsch.&quot;  You will recognize and understand this phrase or any of the words within it without ever adding the separate step of mentally translating it first into English. Congratulations - you've just achieved the Holy Grail of speaking a language - thinking and speaking those words or phrases like a native born to it. In terms of effectiveness it has no peer.<br />And now for the cons: Yes it is VERY effective. However, I now understand why some reviewers of similar Pimsleur courses have complained that it gives you a somewhat limited vocabulary. What you do learn you understand like a native. But the method is VERY repetitive - it must be to force you to think in the language itself from the very beginning (they call it Anticipated Recall).<br />It also provides no explanation of grammar or syntax. Or at least not in the Basic course (it may be different in the Comprehensive Courses). You'll speak the phrases but you won't really know WHY they are structured the way they are. Thus, even if you learned for example, additional verbs on your own you won't know the rules that would permit you to substitute the new verb in sentences you already know. It leads to a really odd result. You'll be highly  fluent with the phrases and words you learned. And illiterate and ignorant of just about everything else spoken or said to you (hence these tapes make sure one of the phrases you have burned into your head is &quot;ich verstehe nicht&quot; i.e. &quot;I don't understand&quot;.<br />This is why I have a mixed opinion of these tapes - at least if you use them alone. The Basic course just doesn't teach you enough to depend on them alone. But it does give an excellent idea of how the Comprehensive Courses will work.<br />I would say for maximum effectiveness it would be good to combine them with a more traditional tutoring course such as one from Hugo, Living Language or Berlitz. The traditional courses will give you a lot more vocabulary and the grammar to understand why the language is spoken the way it is. Then get the Pimsleur Comprehensive courses so that it will drill you in actually thinking and speaking what you've learned.<br />To sum up, view the Basic Course as a short introduction of how the Pimsleur Comprehensive Courses teaching method works. Sort of a &quot;try-before-you-buy&quot; deal. If you're like me it'll convince you that it's worthwile to buy the advanced tapes. But don't depend on this Basic set to teach you a lot of conversational German - one of the many tourist phrase/cassette sets will have many times the number of words and phrases you would want to know before vacationing in a German-speaking country.y be different in the Comprehensive Courses). You'll speak the phrases but you won't really know WHY they are structured the way they are. Thus, even if you learned for example, additional verbs on your own you won't know the rules that would permit you to substitute the new verb in sentences you already know. It leads to a really odd result. You'll be highly  fluent with the phrases and words you learned. And illiterate and ignorant of just about everything else spoken or said to you (hence these tapes make sure one of the phrases you have burned into your head is &quot;ich verstehe nicht&quot; i.e. &quot;I don't understand&quot;.<br />This is why I have a mixed opinion of these tapes - at least if you use them alone. The Basic course just doesn't teach you enough to depend on them alone. But it does give an excellent idea of how the Comprehensive Courses will work.<br />I would say for maximum effectiveness it would be good to combine them with a more traditional tutoring course such as one from Hugo, Living Language or Berlitz. The traditional courses will give you a lot more vocabulary and the grammar to understand why the language is spoken the way it is. Then get the Pimsleur Comprehensive courses so that it will drill you in actually thinking and speaking what you've learned.<br />To sum up, view the Basic Course as a short introduction of how the Pimsleur Comprehensive Courses teaching method works. Sort of a &quot;try-before-you-buy&quot; deal. If you're like me it'll convince you that it's worthwile to buy the advanced tapes. But don't depend on this Basic set to teach you a lot of conversational German - one of the many tourist phrase/cassette sets will have many times the number of words and phrases you would want to know before vacationing in a German-speaking country.	2001-05-14
US	49824972	R3IFXXMYDIP4PK	1870586190	368869253	Decorative Boxes	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Fun Projects That Look Good Too	The cover photo of this book gives a good idea of some of projects covered. However, the scope is a bit wider than just boxes. For example, there is a chapter on making a game chest. Literally, you build a box with pull-out drawers. The drawers themselves on the inside are part of a game - such as a maze with a marble or another drawer becoming a chessboard w/ matching pieces (instructions also provided for making them out of wooden dowels).<br />The author writes clearly and there are numerous line drawings detailing exactly what to do. There are also plenty of photos of the finished projects. Unlike some books that are mostly about decorating a box you already own this book is actually about how to make one and then decorate it. Some chapters discuss making various sizes of round boxes with corresponding lids (which actually turned out to be easier to make than I'd previously thought). One of my favorite projects in the book was making a series of progressively smaller crescent moon-shaped boxes that could be nested inside each other. Some of the boxes you can make include a pencil holder, tray with sloping sides, computer diskette holder, chinese boxes, various magic boxes, various sewing boxes, star-shaped boxes, a cotton holder and a diagonally opening box with drawers.<br />The first few chapters discuss the materials needed as well as basic instructions with line drawings on making various types of boxes. The later project chapters then show how to further adapt them or how to decorate them similarly to the ones shown in each photo. Different methods and instructions are shown for fastening them shut (in addition to making a lid). Overall, this is a fun book and by the end you'll know how to make almost any shaped box you want for your own original projects.	2001-05-11
US	49824972	R2ML2KY63BUVQT	1571200207	191415594	The Artful Ribbon: Beauties in Bloom	Books	5	94	95	N	N	Enter the Realm of Victorian Elegance with The Artful Ribbon	If you want to try your hand at textile Arts this is a good book to start with. Page after page of beautiful ribbon flowers are demonstrated meticulously with diagrams, stitching instructions and photos. As the author says in the Introduction, &quot;For this text, I've tried to develop a fuller and more consistent instructional language both in illustrations and in words, giving the techniques easy nicknames where possible. The 'Invitation to Use this Book,' which follows, will get you started easily, answering your most basic questions. But don't skip the technical sections; they're filled with tips and tricks.&quot;<br />The first chapters after the Invitation chapter start out with simple projects. You'll practice creating simple baby rosettes and thereafter the projects introduce more intricate and ornamental flowers, stems, leaves, stamens and buds. There are plenty of diagrams on each page as well as photos - many of them full-page. For example, you'll start making a basic scalloped rosebud. From there you'll learn to embellish it such as a Scalloped Rosebud with Knots or create a Hatpin Rose, Flatbud or Carbochon Rosebuds with One or Double Rolled Edges. You'll learn to create a Dahlia. Or create full bloom roses with variations such as budded finish, off-center, off-center w/ zig-zag ruffles, internal petals and separate petals. And these are only a select few flowers and techniques you'll learn. Other chapters show various ways of attaching your finished flowers to fabric with other chapters on creating pompoms, knots or various lazy daisy designs, pansies, fushias and daffodils.<br />Leaves, stamens and buds receive just as much treatment as the flowers and help fill out the designs. There are chapters on textured finishes such as ruffled edges, hand pleating, scrunching, wet look and tips on getting your flowers into final form as well as knowing when they're finished. There are tips on collecting ribbons, buying  them, washing and ironing them as well as a chapter giving extra tips and techniques on the various stitches used throughout the book. The final chapter discusses the meaning of flowers and inspirations for creating your own ribbon flower artwork.<br />Beginning and Advanced ribbon crafters alike will find this book full of easy to understand instructions, diagrams and photos. For convenience there is a list of mail-order sources for ribbon in the back as well as a Suggested Reading and an index. If you have any interest in this type of work at all don't miss this book.s a chapter giving extra tips and techniques on the various stitches used throughout the book. The final chapter discusses the meaning of flowers and inspirations for creating your own ribbon flower artwork.<br />Beginning and Advanced ribbon crafters alike will find this book full of easy to understand instructions, diagrams and photos. For convenience there is a list of mail-order sources for ribbon in the back as well as a Suggested Reading and an index. If you have any interest in this type of work at all don't miss this book.	2001-05-05
US	49824972	R2Z2FDW813YIPZ	0825694000	875860054	Solo Guitar Playing, Third Edition Book 1 - with CD (Classical Guitar)	Books	5	177	178	N	N	Superior Beginning Classical Guitar Instruction	A few months ago I decided to get serious about learning to play the guitar. However, I knew I would not be able to afford private or even class instruction. After going to music stores and carefully studying many beginning guitar books I settled on this one. I did not want to learn guitar by laboriously picking apart songs from cds note by note or relying solely on tablature. As Mr. Noad so rightly says in Chapter 3 guitarists are notoriously poor readers (that is, poor at reading traditional music notation). With this he launches into a very direct and easy introduction of traditional music notation and relating it to the guitar.<br />Unlike the previous reviewer I believe even someone who has never read sheet music in their life will have no problem learning with this book/cd. I certainly am not. Mr. Noad provides plenty of musical exercises (they start short but get longer as you learn more and get further into the book), each one short and specific with commentary where it is needed. The point is that someone who is teaching themself must not get in a rush. I devote a minimum of one week to each chapter (and usually more) and that is practicing every night for a minimum of 30 minutes.<br />The book starts with chapters and photos with explicit demonstrations of the proper way to hold the guitar as well as meticulously describing (with photos) exactly how the hands and fingers should be positioned for optimal playing (and to avoid bad habits that will make playing more advanced pieces difficult).<br />The next chapters introduce music notation immediately linking each note with the corresponding position on the fretboard and reinforces it with very short musical exercises. He explains whole notes, half notes, etc. time signatures, correct fingering and liberally adds exercises to continually drill the lessons just learned. As an example, all of chapter 3 focused on learning to recognize, read and play correctly the open notes of the guitar. That is, recognizing the 6 notes on the staff that correspond to each string when it is played open (no need to press on the fretboard). And that chapter is filled with little musical exercises to reinforce recognizing and smoothly playing just those 6 notes.<br />This same careful approach is taken throughout the entire book. As you learn more the exercises become more varied, interesting and exciting. Once you finally have an extensive background of each individual note on the staff and on the fretboard, even chords are taught in relation to their traditional music notation. By chapter 7, if you've carefully practiced exactly as Mr. Noad suggests, you will have a great foundation for sight-reading music notation many guitarists with more years experience could never play. Chapter 7 also introduces the first &quot;real&quot; song based on a theme by the Spanish composer Albeniz. It is a piece which looks (and sounds) harder than it actually turned out to be for me. From Chapter 7 on progressively more difficult instrumentals from various composers are included. By the end of the book you will have an extensive repertoire of songs to play for your friends or any performance occasion.<br />There are chapters that cover subjects such as &quot;voices&quot;, ascending and descending ligado, various types of scales, 2nd, 3rd, 5th &amp; 7th position, traditional music vocabulary and their meanings, half-bar, full-bar, vibrato, portamento, trills, mordent, reverse mordent, appoggiatura, tremolo, tips for developing accuracy, speed, dexterity, tonal phrasing, ear-training, playing natural harmonics, playing harmonic chords, contrapuctual music (i.e. playing music in which the melodies are in more than one part - thus a good guitarist can often sound like 2 people playing), mastering the fretboard, etc. etc. etc.<br />Mr. Noad says in one of the prefixes that the entire book contains approximately 2 years worth of study material if you follow the practice/study sessions as he suggests. The backof the book also has an appendix of graded guitar ensemble pieces for 3 and sometimes 4 guitars which is useful for a classroom or friends who want to play together.<br />If you can afford to get the accompanying cd I definitely recommend it - particularly if, like me, you are having to teach yourself. This is not a book to be rushed through by any means. But if you are willing to put in the time and practice you will be one heck of a classical guitarist by the end. I can't wait to review his sequel - Solo Guitar Playing 2!of the book also has an appendix of graded guitar ensemble pieces for 3 and sometimes 4 guitars which is useful for a classroom or friends who want to play together.<br />If you can afford to get the accompanying cd I definitely recommend it - particularly if, like me, you are having to teach yourself. This is not a book to be rushed through by any means. But if you are willing to put in the time and practice you will be one heck of a classical guitarist by the end. I can't wait to review his sequel - Solo Guitar Playing 2!	2001-02-28
US	49824972	R3LC5GDZKTE5J5	0823052273	958872917	The Technical Pen	Books	5	58	58	N	N	Best Technical Pen Book on the Market	This book is hands down the BEST technical pen book on the market today. The only other books I've seen come close to it in quality are from Claudia Nice but she uses many different types of pens. This book focuses strictly on the technical pen only. The beautiful artwork in this book alone is worth the price.<br />The artwork demonstrated is definitely pro quality and it could potentially be daunting to the absolute beginner. However, I believe if a beginner is willing to sit down with this book and carefully read and implement the exercises and suggestions the author gives they will quickly find themselves executing drawings of a caliber they would never have dreamed possible except by the most experienced pro.<br />The first few chapters deal with care and maintenance of the pens plus the many inks available. There are chapters on various textures &amp; strokes you can create, chapters on creating a loose, breezy style or alternately a very highly detailed drawing. There are discussions of using a pattern motif as a texture fill and chapters on dynamic use of dark shapes for contrast and composition.<br />One chapter shows the exact same drawing of a Monk portrait redone in no less than 24 completely unique styles. 24! And the final page in that chapter is that exact same portrait as an outline you can photocopy to let you practice any of those techniques yourself. Some techniques demonstrated include tonal patterns, regular/irregular weaves, basket weaves, scales, bubbles, wood patterns, feathering, merging/radiating lines, hatching/crosshatching, waves, zig-zags, loops, dots, engraving effects and random scribbling...Whew... there are too many to list but hopefully it gives an idea of the diversity this book demonstrates.<br />There is a chapter on various loose pen-stroke techiques and exercises. Exercises such as how to handle an outline (some ex: tight &amp; thin, thick to thin, missing edges). The next chapter is on tight pen techniques &amp; exercises.<br />My favorite chapter is titled Color and the Technical Pen. It shows page after page of color technical pen work. The first color piece shown is of a beautiful dragon with a Celtic style border and it was all done with technical pens filled with colored inks! Other demonstrations and examples shown have the technical drawing done first and then painted later with acrylics or watercolor or ink dyes.<br />Overall this is a stunning book. It is crammed full of artwork from pen &amp; ink artists, how-to exercises and tidbits. Anyone wanting to become more proficient with pen &amp; ink NEEDS this book.br />My favorite chapter is titled Color and the Technical Pen. It shows page after page of color technical pen work. The first color piece shown is of a beautiful dragon with a Celtic style border and it was all done with technical pens filled with colored inks! Other demonstrations and examples shown have the technical drawing done first and then painted later with acrylics or watercolor or ink dyes.<br />Overall this is a stunning book. It is crammed full of artwork from pen &amp; ink artists, how-to exercises and tidbits. Anyone wanting to become more proficient with pen &amp; ink NEEDS this book.	2000-11-17
US	49824972	R1MK2GKQ3XUQD2	1564962431	290729106	In Watercolour: Flowers (In Watercolour)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Glorious Display of Blossoms	This is a facinating little book. It's dimensions are only slightly bigger than a typical postcard. In fact, some of the paintings featured can be torn out and used as a postcard. The format follows one of the many other showcase watercolor books that Ms. Schlemm edits and is a great for inspiration if you can find it.	2000-11-17
US	49824972	RRW9JRV8O2ZGX	089134814X	217842451	Painting Fresh Florals in Watercolor	Books	5	37	37	N	N	How to paint beautiful florals for any artistic level	Arleta Pech's book is one of the best books on painting lush florals I have ever seen. This book is so good I later bought one of her video tapes to actually watch her creating a floral in her beautiful style. However, as  long as you have this book you don't need a video. The book has everything  you need to start painting in this beautiful style.<br />The first chapter  gives information on materials, paints and surfaces. It also discusses  looking for inspiration, developing the composition, creating paintings  with a theme, creating a center of interest, detail drawing &amp; use of a  projector along with correcting the distortions that projection methods  introduce.<br />The next chapter gets to the nuts and bolts of how she  achieves her unique look. She discusses color theory particularly as it  relates to glazing with watercolor. There are step-by-step photos showing  her graded glaze technique and building form with it as well as her paint  and pull technique. She shows the difference these techniques produce  compared to wet-in-wet and provides some practice exercises with petals an  iris and a bow. She also shows use of an airbrush which she uses mainly  just to touch up &amp; soften the center of a flower and occasionally to  soften a background further.<br />The book has many step-by-step  demonstrations of full paintings using her 2 favorite techniques as well as  demonstrations of painting interesting backgrounds. There are many smaller  demonstrations of just an individual flower. Interestingly, outline  drawings are provided so you can trace the flower and practice painting it.  She also uses lines pointing to particular areas of the outline drawing to  remind you of certain areas to pay attention to.<br />Even though this is  mainly a book about floral painting she provides demonstrations of painting  china and lace since these items are often also featured in her floral  still-lifes. One of the chapters shows step-by-step demonstrations of full  scale paintings and a list beside each finished painting of problems that  can crop up and their solutions. The final chapter is a gallery.<br />I have  practiced painting some of the mini-demonstrations provided in the book and  have been delighted with the results. Anyone wanting to paint better  florals will benefit from this book.cale paintings and a list beside each finished painting of problems that  can crop up and their solutions. The final chapter is a gallery.<br />I have  practiced painting some of the mini-demonstrations provided in the book and  have been delighted with the results. Anyone wanting to paint better  florals will benefit from this book.	2000-06-08
US	49824972	R3OESMUHIXQXA8	0891348972	819796946	The North Light Book of Acrylic Painting Techniques	Books	4	110	113	N	N	Good display of acrylic painting styles	If you have ever read any articles from The Artists Magazine then you will be familiar with the style of demonstrations of acrylic painting that this book offers. It is quite good at showing a diversity of painting styles -  from  airbrush photo-realistic to very thick impasto and  impressionistic.<br />The book examines 23 different acrylic artists and shows  some photos of each one making a painting in their unique style. I loved  this book for the sheer number and quality of styles it displayed. The  chapters ranged from discussions of  the paints to the various mediums to  airbrushing to abstract work.<br />For inspiration and over-all examinations  of how-to in painting in acrylic this is a good book. It does, however,  have one major flaw. Just like the magazine it doesn't give detailed  instructions on EXACTLY how to practice any of these techniques.<br />For  example, in my acrylic painting I am trying to learn how to blend. I know  it is possible. I've seen plenty of other acrylic paintings that show  excellent blending. I bought this book with the hope that it would show me  how they got those blends. Nope. Blending only gets a page and a half in  the entire book. You get statements such as &quot;For blending colors,  Kooluris Dobbs finds that her fingers work very well.&quot;<br />Well Ok. So  fingers work well - so show me a photo or two of her ACTUALLY blending like  this. But the book never does. And it uses generalized statements like the  one above for practically every other technique mentioned as well. So if  you are looking for a book that gives actual detailed step-by-step  instructions for a technique this book won't do it. In spite of this flaw  the rest of the book was so good and so inspiring I gave it a 4 when  otherwise I would've given it a 3 (seeing as I find the over-generalization  in a book that purports to be about acrylic techniques as a fairly big  shortcoming).<br />I still think this book is worth getting despite the  drawbacks. Everything else about it was high quality and the many beautiful  paintings are inspiring in and of itself. If you paint with acrylics this  is a good book to have on your reference shelf.verything else about it was high quality and the many beautiful  paintings are inspiring in and of itself. If you paint with acrylics this  is a good book to have on your reference shelf.	2000-06-03
US	49824972	RTB95LECOBGLU	0823046621	6787211	Scratchboard for Illustration	Books	5	35	35	N	N	If you love scratchboard - get this book!	There aren't many books available on scratchboard but I've managed to obtain some.  I got this book through Amazon's out-of-print service and am very glad I did.<br />The first few chapters give a history as well as  overview of the materials used. She shows various scratch tools available  as well as various surfaces. Instructions for inking your own all-black  surface on white scratchboard is also given.<br />The next few chapters give  examples of the various types of lines and dots that can be achieved with  the scratch tools. Some of these examples combine pen &amp; ink with  various techniques. The Getting Aquainted chapter, for example, give  instructions for creating various half-tone effects, stipple effects,  hatching and cross-hatching and combining these with pen &amp; ink.<br />There  are instructions for creating an &quot;unplanned drawing&quot; (which the  author defines as sketching directly onto the scratchboard surface  freehand) and a &quot;planned drawing&quot; (which is sketching first on  paper and then transfering the traced drawing to the scratchboard).<br />There is instruction on how to correct mistakes, using various  mechanical drawing aids such as French Curves, triangles and compass. There  are chapters on creating a woodcut or a linoleum cut and metal or wood  engraving effects. She deals with effective use of light and shadow and  values. There is even one small chapter on non-traditional scratchboard and  more experimental surfaces or effects. The final chapter deals with using  color with your scratchboard art.<br />Throughout the entire book each page  is crammed with diverse and stunning examples of scratchboard art. Much of  the enjoyment I derived from this book was simply from looking at all the  great art featured. The diversity of styles - from non-representational to  realistic was a feast for the eyes.<br />I would definitely recommend this  book to anyone considering trying out scratchboard. Scratchboard fans won't  be disappointed.e disappointed.	2000-06-03
US	49824972	R17FX1KFHNVR2P	0891342664	714958947	The Art of Scratchboard	Books	5	42	42	N	N	Excellent How-to Book on Scratchboard Art	I just finished reviewing another scratchboard book titled Scratchboard for Illustration by Ruth Lozner. This book by Cecile Curtis is just as good. In fact, it is an even toss-up as to which book is better. I enjoy  them both equally.<br />The book starts off with the history of scratchboard  and etching art techniques as well as a thorough overview of the materials  available.<br />The next chapters focus on various techniques along with  combining scratch techniques with pen &amp; ink. The author will give  advice beside each subject shown as to what tips and techniques where used  to achieve certain effects and why she chose them.<br />There are discussions  on subjects such as value &amp; light and even concern for various  techniques on how the art will look when reproduced. She also discusses  approaches to various subjects and whether a particular subject might lend  itself better to an all-black scratchboard or rather a white scratchboard  with some black areas and/or pen &amp; ink. There are chapters on combining  scratched details with pen &amp; ink and also color applications and for  experimental and even some mixed media effects.<br />Step-by-step  instructions are given for creating a good composition and then using  tracing paper to transfer the drawing to the scratchboard. One of my  favorite chapters in this book is titled Tricks of the Trade in  Illustrating. This chapter gives hints and tips for creating dynamic and  interesting scratchboard art particularly if one is working on a  commissioned piece. Actually, the information given is useful for any work  of art whether commercial or fine art.<br />The middle section of the book has  color plates showcasing scratchboard with color and shows artwork not only  by the author but by other artists as well.<br />Throughout the book there are  a wealth of subjects illustrated. Everything from portraits &amp; people to  wildlife art (a LOT of wildlife art - the artist is an official artist for  the World Wildlife Fund) to architecture interiors/exteriors and  landscapes.<br />This is an excellent scratchboard book and would recommend it  to anyone interested in learning scratchboard.rld Wildlife Fund) to architecture interiors/exteriors and  landscapes.<br />This is an excellent scratchboard book and would recommend it  to anyone interested in learning scratchboard.	2000-06-03
US	49824972	RD2MVTVE2BARO	0929261127	167041242	Watercolor: Drybrush Technique (Artist's Library Series)	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Innovative Approach to Watercolor	A fantastic little book. The author draws with watercolor paint! In  otherwords, instead of the usual wash or broad strokes that most painters  use to complete their paintings he builds pictures with a wash and then  painting thin small strokes or daubs of the brush as if it were a pen. The  results are facinating.<br />Each chapter has a project/demonstration and  lists exactly the brushes used, the paint, surfaces, etc. By following the  instructions you learn a new approach to watercolor painting. The process  is not unlike egg tempera painting (which I also do) except with watercolor  paint. After reading this book and completing the acorn project I am ready  to begin the next project. I know I am going to have to incorporate more of  this style of watercolor painting in my new work.	1998-10-27
US	49824972	R2CA30RAZD2TF7	0891347321	236807692	Painting Sunlit Still Lifes in Watercolor	Books	5	19	19	N	N	Wonderfull Book For Still Life Painters	This is a wonderful book. After discussing the materials and some basic  watercolor techniques the following chapters provide demonstration projects  to apply the techniques. Ms. Donovan's paintings are a nice balance between  washy-style watercolors and hyper-realistic.<br />She really shines on the  demonstrations of painting reflective surfaces such as silver, glass or  brass and also woodgrain and marble (which was a wonderful surprise since  I'd never seen marble discussed before in any other watercolor book I  own).<br />She also discusses composition, the effect of lighting and set up  of your own still lifes for maximum impact.<br />I have done several of the  projects and plan to do all of them. My own paintings have improved since  applying the concepts and techniques the book demonstrates.	1998-10-27
US	49824972	RV3KRCNELIJ1G	0891343385	830055758	Fill Your Watercolors With Light and Color	Books	5	33	33	N	N	Great Atmospheric Paintings	This is a good book for seeing what effective use of masking can do for a  painting. Mr. Roycraft's use of masking is an integral (if not THE prime)  technique for creating the numerous paintings demonstrated in this book.  The other technique he uses is pouring the watercolors onto the surface  rather than painting most of it with a brush.<br />This is not a painting  method for anyone not willing or able to know precisely all the places to  mask. The sparkling waves of an ocean in one of his paintings must have  taken quite some time to mask and most likely needed a detailed pencil  sketch beforehand. While the pouring is imprecise the masking is not.<br />The  book has 1 chapter that gives a step-by-step demonstration of his pouring  method. One can tell from some paintings produced that this can be a  time-consuming method of producing watercolor paintings if the subject  matter is intricate or detailed although the results are breathtaking.<br />I  would like to see more demonstrations from Mr. Roycraft and perhaps more  details about the masking as part of the process. Statements such as  &quot;I masked only the light areas before beginning the painting. This is  negative painting in reverse and makes a beautiful abstract pattern.&quot;  show the thought that guides the final results.<br />Most of the book shows  paintings in a semi-finished state with the final result and some comments  on the process and thoughts in creating it. I liked this book very much and  would recommend it to any watermedia painter because it helps thinking in  terms of positive and negative shapes and light. It also introduces a  unique way of painting with watercolors which I suspect would work with  fluid acrylics as well.	1998-10-26
US	49824972	R1LYN0GBDWKRHT	0891344721	918670211	Sketching Your Favorite Subjects in Pen and Ink	Books	5	36	36	N	N	Great Pen &amp; Ink Introduction	I got this book after first buying Ms. Nice's Pen &amp; Ink with  Watercolor book. This book is also a delight to use. While it does not have  quite the appeal of the other book (for me personally since I like and  missed the color) it is still a good book for anyone wanting to become more  proficient in pen &amp; ink. Since that is what it is meant to do that is  the criteria I used to rate it.<br />There are chapters describing the  materials used. Chapters on the different strokes and how different the  effect each one has when she shows a ball created with them. There are  chapters on value and contrast, composition, landscapes, seascapes, plants,  animals and portraits. She shows drawings created only with a verticle  stroke for example or only with contour lines or dots along with many more  that combine them with other marks. She shows the effect different  technical pen sizes have on a drawing. She shows pen &amp; ink combined  with ink washes and gives advice on a field sketch kit. And these are only  a few of the things this book demonstrates.<br />On every page the numberous  drawings show the humble pen deserves to be respected as a serious art  medium in its own right. This book would be a good addition to any artist's  library no matter their skill level or subject matter.	1998-10-26
