US	49830940	R2QQUH2H1U87ST	0800618998	452806172	Paul and Palestinian Judaism: A Comparison of Patterns of Religion	Books	1	28	63	N	N	Covenantal Nomism at its best	For some reason this book became a breakthrough in the late 1970s in Pauline studies. In fact, ever since the publication of this book Pauline studies has never been the same. The impact this book has made since is felt in both the academia and church. Unfortunately, the book is really biased on its use of Second Temple literature and its understanding of Paul's relationship to Second Temple Judaism. Having read most of the first section (the teachings of Second Temple/Rabbinic Judaism) and all of the second section (Paul and his teachings) Sanders portrays a very gracious view of Second Temple/Rabbinic Judaism and a very Jewish and law friendly Paul. However, after reading this book and comparing it to the critiques of this reading of Second Temple/Rabbinic Judaism and Paul's relationship to it I have to conclude that Sanders has not done his homework or that he wrote with an agenda.<br /><br />Though Sanders does correct some of the negative portrayals of Judaism by many evangelical scholars since the time of the Reformation, I would have to say that he does not totally liberate ST/Rabbinic Judaism as pictured as a works-righteousness or legalistic religion. In fact, even if you read Sanders' take on the Tannaitic and DSS literature you will find that ST/Rabbinic Judaism is still to some degree works-righteous and legalistic. Even though he rightly points out that ST/Rabbinic Judaism is not pelagian or advocates a legalist God, the religion he paints is more semi-pelagian or \\"Romish.\\" He acknowledges that in ST/Rabbinic Judaism that an Israelite can be kicked out of the covenant for very serious offenses and that everyone will be judged according to their deeds by the standards of the Torah. Even though God will be gracious in how he judges his people, they will still need to do their best (within the realm of the covenant and God's grace) to achieve eschatological salvation. The evangelical equivalent to this view is the view espoused (more or less) by Charles Finney, Holiness Wesleyans, Churches of Christ, Seventh-Day Adventists, United Pentecostals, and Evangelical Outreach. Sanders' attempt to liberate ST/Rabbinic Judaism as a legalistic religion is only partially successful. ST/Rabbinic Judaism even under Sanders' depiction advocates a works-righteousness salvation to some degree. It definitely did not advocate sola fide and sola gratia.<br /><br />The more problematic part of the book is Sanders' take on Paul. He believes that Paul (since he was still a Jew even after his Damascus Road experience) borrowed a lot from ST/Rabbinic Judaism in regards to soteriology. In fact, Sanders states that Paul held to a \\"Christian\\" covenantal nomism (pp. 511-515). Though the new covenant is new and available to non-Jews it still holds to the basic structure of covenantal nomism found in ST/Rabbinic Judaism: one enters the covenant by grace and baptism and one stays in that covenant by obedience to the law (or the new law of Christ). A believer can be expelled from the covenant (and eventually from eschatological salvation) by heinous sin or apostasy (p. 513). Contrary to some misguided and uneducated Presbyterian and Reformed pastors (those P & R pastors who don't even know what their own confessions teach) the view of Judaism and Paul advocated in this book is contrary to the P & R tradition. For instance, in the Westminster Confession of Faith, it states in regards to justification: \\"God doth continue to forgive the sins of those that are justified; and although they can never fall from the state of justification, yet they may by their sins fall under God's Fatherly displeasure, and not have the light of his countenance restored unto them, until they humble themselves, confess their sins, beg pardon, and renew their faith and repentance\\" (XI.5). To say that the WCF promotes a type of covenantal nomism is utterly ridiculous. The confession is clear that even sin still does not forfeit the believer's righteous standing before God'sjudgment bar.<br /><br />Another key question to ask is: if Sanders' portrayal of Paul is correct what is the point of Christ's death? Of course, Sanders does not believe that Jesus Christ is the God-man as articulated in the great Christian creeds and confessions thus he is excused from this. However, a Christian who adopts Sanders' covenantal nomism really has to struggle with the idea of what Christ accomplished on the cross. Did Christ merely open the door so that people can start working their way up to heaven? Or did Christ fully pay the price for the sins of the elect? These are questions that Christians who have adopted the New Perspective have to ask themselves.	2005-09-21
US	49830940	R11K1AKTVID1Y1	0802809812	885372955	Is Jesus the Only Savior?	Books	5	79	87	N	Y	One of the best books on the subject	It seems to be a popular fad these days among many professing Christians to downplay the particularity of Jesus Christ as the Lord and Saviour of the world. In this book, Edwards does a very good job demonstrating that what is fashionable may not always be true and biblical. The book you can say is divided into two main sections. In the first part (chaps. 1-6) Edwards talks about the legitimacy of the orthodox Christian view of Jesus Christ. He delves into the Jesus Quests, the Jesus Seminar, the historic reliability of the New Testament documents, Jesus' self-identification, etc. In all these dicussions, Edwards does a good job exposing the various flaws of liberal and anti-Christian perspectives on these matters (demonstrating how the Enlightenment's heightening of the individual and a naturalistic view of the universe has severely skewed how one reads the biblical narrative). In fact, students who are interested in the methodology of finding out who Jesus really is from an evangelical and conservative perspective will enjoy reading the first six chapters. All in all, Edwards pretty much smashes the presuppositions and arguments of the liberal school that aims to deconstruct the historical Jesus Christ (the God-man) and orthodox Christianity through a worldview that is foreign to the biblical period.     The second part (chaps. 7-12) deals more intensely with soteriological pluralism. Edwards does an excellent job smashing down the often ridiculous accusations laid against a particularistic understanding of the gospel. For instance, he does a good job showing how orthodox Christianity does not undermine world peace but aims at reconciliation with the whole world because of the nature of the gospel (cf. Matthew 5:9). He also provides a good treatment regarding the relationship between the gospel and postmodernism (chap. 9). He does a good job exposing the flaws of a postmodern worldview (i.e., that there are no such things as universal truths and that every opinionhas legitimacy--which is a joke to any rational mind). Edwards' commitment to the particularity of Jesus Christ comes out strong in chapter 11 (\\"How Should Christians Think about Other Religions?\\"). He gives ample Scriptural evidence that the Bible supports only one way to heaven--through Jesus Christ. In fact, Edwards is even bold enough to proclaim that Judaism has no saving efficacy apart from Jesus Christ and that we cannot automatically assume that some people who have never heard the gospel will be saved. In a final note, Edwards convincingly argues that the particularity of the gospel leads to its own universality. If God did not come down in a particular place and time then there would have been no possibility of redemption for the whole world.     Overall, this is an excellent book. The one thing that is refreshing to know is that this book was written by a New Testament biblical scholar rather than a Christian theologian or philosopher. Hence, you will notice throughout the book that Edwards quotes Scripture to back up his arguments. Though many modern scholars are willing to rebel against Scripture because they feel that this leads to hostility and dogmatism Edwards does not fall into this futile path. Modern Christians should realize that ONLY in Jesus Christ are people saved from eternal perdition and that Christianity does not have to cater to certain disenfranchised groups because they complain that orthodox Christianity is too exclusivistic (which is quite the oppposite, read Galatians 3:28), morally-upright (which is no surprise, since some people in this world still want to live a sinful lifestyle), and sexist (which, if understood properly, is not).	2005-09-03
US	49830940	R2XM93RMM3SFVS	1573833282	36288384	The Nature and Function of Faith in the Theology of John Calvin (Nabpr Dissertation)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	An outstanding book on Calvin's soteriology	If there is a book that must be read (aside from Calvin's Commentaries and Institutes) in order to understand the soteriology of the great Genevan Reformer this book is it. Shepherd does an outstanding job presenting Calvin's understanding of faith to various theological issues in a systematic and engaging way. In fact, Shepherd's work is not only expositorily faithful to what Calvin wrote but philosophically impeccable (Shepherd is a philosophy of sorts too) in regards to how it engages Calvin's soteriology and its criticisms of it (as will be demonstrated below).  <br /> <br />Shepherd discusses key issues related to Calvin's understanding of faith in each succeeding chapter: the Word, justification, sanctification, predestination, the various kinds of faith, the law, the church, and the sacraments. Though some chapters are longer than others Shepherd still manages to adequately deal with all these issues. One of the jewels of this book is Shepherd's discussion of Calvin's view of predestination (in fact, this chapter alone is worth the price of the book). Shepherd is not afraid to engage and even confront Calvin on this very contentious doctrine. To understand Shepherd's skill in pulling apart doctrines and reconstructing them one must read this chapter. Shepherd does a very good job arguing (I am a Calvinist, btw) that Calvin's doctrine of God's hidden \\"double decree\\" leaves no firm assurance for believers. Why? Even though Calvin insists that believers must look to Christ alone for assurance the implications of election will lead believers to ultimately look for assurance in themselves (i.e., if they possess \\"fruits\\" of election). This is where Calvin, according to Shepherd, gets himself in trouble. Shepherd also criticizes Calvin's handling of the reletionship between salvation and \\"unformed\\" faith. Shepherd, again, skillfully argues that Calvin's understanding of \\"unformed\\" faith leads to problems since it makes one believe that there are two kinds of faith -a faith that looks to Christ and saves and a faith that is not centered on Christ yet still saves (Shepherd sees Calvin here plunging into many difficulties and contradictions). Shepherd also criticizes the way Calvin handles the issue of Simon Magus. He argues that Calvin's understanding of \\"false faith\\" that looks and feels real warps \\"parts of the New Testament witness\\" (p. 127). Another good discussion is Calvin's understanding of infant baptism. Shepherd is correct to assert that Calvin's understanding of infant baptism (and infant baptism in general) breaks down the relations between the Word of promise, faith, and sacraments as seals of that faith (p. 218).  <br /> <br />Though there are many parts in the book that challenges Calvin's understanding of certain doctrines exegetically and philosophically, Shepherd still does a good job of being fair to Calvin. In fact, his discussion of Calvin's view of the law is sure to provide ample information for students on the subject. This book is not only a good resource for those who are studying the theology of the great Genevan Reformer but is also one of those rare books that seriously challenges the theological points of Calvinism. In all honesty, my loyalty to the Calvinistic system was seriously challenged as I read this book. Not only is the scholarship at a high level in this book but it is also easy to read and understand. This is a good book to own if you're a passionate student of Calvin and his theology.	2005-08-13
US	49830940	R1H1BGA2BGKEUK	0567025608	127150279	King, Priest, and Prophet: A Trinitarian Theology of Atonement (Theology for the 21st Century)	Books	4	27	30	N	N	Good book on the atonement	If you're a theological student wanting a pretty informative book on the atonement than this book should be very helpful. Though Sherman comes from the postliberal school of thought he is quite Reformed and traditional on how he approaches the atonement. Readers will also appreciate Sherman's heavy reliance on Scripture to defend his viewpoint rather than giving into modern ideaologies and fads. In fact, one can say that Sherman has a very high view of Scripture compared to others who belong in his school of thought.<br /><br />Another positive aspect of the book is that it is not exclusively academic. It is meant to aid pastors on how to preach the atonement in a faithful manner to believers. It seems that preaching the atonement - whether in liberal or conservative churches - is not a high priority these days. Hopefully, this book will dismiss the ridiculous idea that atonement theology and the life of the church are not integrally related.<br /><br />Sherman's work revolves around the three offices of Christ: king, priest, and prophet. He devotes a chapter to each of these offices and explains why all the offices of Christ cannot be disconnected from each other. He also explains, related to the above point, that all the members of the Trinity are involved in Christ's work. This corrects the common belief among Christians that only Christ is involved in the atonement. As a result of this, the atonement, according to Sherman, cannot be tied down to one single view. In fact, due to the Trinitarian nature of the atonement, all the major views of the atonement in church history (Christus Victor, Abelardian, and Anselmian) are valid. In this sense, Christ's kingship involves the victory over the powers of sin and death, Christ's priestly role as involved in the penal satisfaction for humanity's sin, and Christ's prophetic role as involved in the transformation of believers from the old life to the new. One may not agree with Sherman's eclectic model of the atonement (as this reviewer does) but he does make an almost convincing case for it (traditionalists will also appreciate Sherman's defense of Anselm  [pp. 188-192] considering that Anselm has been a target of ridicule among many modern Christians).<br /><br />Considering the amount of nonsense that is being published on the atonement these days it is refreshing to see a work like Sherman's. When one reads the pages one will recognize that Sherman's priorities lie with God's kingdom, the gospel, the church, and individual Christians. He is not some liberal, marxist, socialist, radical that wants to deconstruct the Christian tradition so that pagans, disgruntled immoralists, and anti-Christian philosophers will feel all nice and cuddly. This work makes no compromises with modern ideas and values. Though there are points where traditionalists will disagree with, it is still a work that is nonetheless useful for the church and academia.ent (as this reviewer does) but he does make an almost convincing case for it (traditionalists will also appreciate Sherman's defense of Anselm  [pp. 188-192] considering that Anselm has been a target of ridicule among many modern Christians).  <br /> <br />Considering the amount of nonsense that is being published on the atonement these days it is refreshing to see a work like Sherman's. When one reads the pages one will recognize that Sherman's priorities lie with God's kingdom, the gospel, the church, and individual Christians. He is not some liberal, marxist, socialist, radical that wants to deconstruct the Christian tradition so that pagans, disgruntled immoralists, and anti-Christian philosophers will feel all nice and cuddly. This work makes no compromises with modern ideas and values. Though there are points where traditionalists will disagree with, it is still a work that is nonetheless useful for the church and academia.	2005-07-29
US	49830940	R3DSTOJZJ6VHPW	0802811442	271997710	Principles of Conduct: Aspects of Biblical Ethics	Books	4	9	13	N	N	Good book on ethics from a conservative Reformed perspective	Any book by John Murray is a reliable source for sound biblical Reformed theology. In this book, Murray expounds ethics from a conservative evangelical Reformed perspective. Though many postmodern, neo-orthodox, postliberal, or moderate Christians will find Murray's positions outdated he admirably does a good job sticking to Scripture even if the view he expounds is distasteful to modern sensibilities (for instance, Murray's take on slavery). The great thing about this book is that it is not only theological but also practical. He deals with ethical issues that are very pertinant to how Christians are to live in this sinful world. The topics he treats include such things as marriage, work, preservation of life, and speaking the truth. He also give us an explanation of the meaning of the Sermon on the Mount (chap. 7) and how law and grace are related (chap. 8). Many lay Christians will find these chapters very relevant to their Christian existence on earth. <br /> <br />Having said that, Murray's understanding of the relationship between the law and gospel is questionable. It appears that Murray knocks down the wall that divides the law and gospel (a position that has been held by Protestants for the last 500 years). In fact, in one place Murray espouses the traditional Reformed view of the law and gospel: \\"The simple truth is that if law is conceived of as contributing in the least degree towards our acceptance with God and our justification by him, then the gospel of grace is a nullity\\" (p. 182). And then he later writes in the same chapter what seems to nullify his previous statement: \\"In all of this the demand of obedience in the Mosaic covenant is principally identical with the same demand in the new covenant of the gospel economy\\" (p. 199). For Murray, the new covenant is really no different from the Mosaic covenant because both have a  real (not hypothetical) promise-demand structure. Only those who persevere in obedience to the law in both dispensations willinherit the future blessing of eternal life, according to Murray. Another problem is that even though this book was written in the 1950s, Murray writes as if he was writing this book in the 1850s! The language and style of the book will make some people re-read the same paragraph over and over. Murray uses archaic words and phrases that will make it tough to digest in the first reading. Overall, I would recommend this book. Though there are some issues I take with Murray it is much better than a lot of the postmodern, postliberal, and neo-orthodox ethics books that are being published in recent years.	2005-07-21
US	49830940	R1W94RL2IDKNNI	0631211829	688851817	The Christian Faith: An Introduction to Christian Doctrine	Books	4	12	19	N	N	An okay systematic overview	Though this book is a pretty good systematic theology overview revolving around the theme of the Trinity it is difficult at times to read. Though classical in its positioning, Gunton provides a very moderate evangelical perspective on standard systematic theology topics. Many will complain that Gunton likes to tread the middle path than landing his two feet on either side of the road. In fact, a conservative evangelical will consider Gunton \\"soft,\\" while a liberal theologian will consider his views outdated. Despite this, the book is still useful for seminary students or ministers who need a quick reference on the standard topics of systematic theology.	2005-07-08
US	49830940	R2T1LQT29T7J4N	0664251927	479982021	Basic Christian Doctrine	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Very Compassionate Reformed Theology	If one is looking for a Reformed theology book that is very pastoral and compassionate in spirit then this book is it. Another bonus is that the book is easy to read so that lay people will find no trouble understanding what Leith is trying to say. In fact, this book can be a good resource for churches to use if they are doing a series on Bible doctrines. Leith deals with the standard topics of systematic theology (prolegomena to eschatology) in just over 300 pages. Thus, it is not a hefty systematic theology book. The overall perspective given is Reformed, though a bit of neo-orthodoxy can be found in bits and pieces (especially when Leith discusses theological method and bibliology). However, when one reads the sections on God, providence, Christ, the atonement, the Holy Spirit, election, justification, sanctification, and perseverance Leith is quite conservative and evangelical in his conclusions. I was also encouraged to see that Leith put a very high focus on Christ. Though there are some questionable points in Leith's theology his love for Christ and his concern for the church comes out quite clearly in the pages. I recommend this book for both seminary student and lay person.	2005-07-05
US	49830940	R3LWPG2FKVWSWI	1590521919	266743825	Future Grace	Books	3	65	79	N	N	A good book overall but some questionable conclusions	John Piper will always be remembered as a popular Christian author/theologian who wrote many books to help pastors and lay people understand the Christian faith better and how to truly live a Christian life. In this book, Piper explains what it means to live by faith in future grace. In the first several chapters of the book (1-9), Piper explains why \\"past grace\\" is an insufficient motive to live a God-centred and obedient life. He explains that past grace only looks to the past and not to the future. What truly motives a Christian to live a God-centred and obedient life is to look forward to the grace that will be revealed. In fact, if we live looking back to what Christ did for our salvation then we are following the \\"debtor's ethic\\" which lessens the motivation and power to live a truly obedient Christian life. What Piper tries to do in this book is to make us realize that the way to overcome sin and disobedience in the Christian life is to look FORWARD to the grace of God (i.e., future grace) and to be truly satisfied for all that God is for us in Jesus Christ.  <br /> <br />I really appreciated Piper's emphasis on the eschatological aspect of Christ's redemptive work. Too many evangelical Christians are too past or present oriented rather than future oriented in how they see the Christian life. They do not realize that salvation is not only a past fact and a present reality, but a future gift to those who trust in Jesus Christ. This is something that must be addressed behind the pulpits in many of our churches today. I also liked the fact that Piper always forces us to really look hard on where our affections lie. Does it lie with the present and the world or does it lie with God and the future? Even if things don't go the way we want them to do we still trust God and delight in him through Jesus Christ? True faith is a faith that hopes and banks on God for the satisfaction of one's heart and soul. This is where Piper makes us really examine our hearts and to see if our faith is a mere profession or born by the Spirit. Another helpful aspect of the book is that Piper makes his theology deal with practical issues of the Christian life. In each major section, Piper devotes a chapter on practical issues which affect the Christian: anxiety, pride, misplaced shame, impatience, covetousness, bitterness, despondancy, and lust. Many will find these practical-issue chapters helpful and informative.  <br /> <br />However, with all these positives in the book there should be some word of caution. Piper appears to have cut down the fence between the law and the gospel (a dichotomy that is the hallmark of the Reformation). This is clearly seen in chapters 11 and 12. For Piper, the difference between the OT and NT \\"is that in the old covenant the gracious enabling power to obey was not poured out as fully as it is since Jesus\\" (p. 158). Hence, the gospel is not something that is alternative/antithetical to the law but is a power that enables believers to keep the law (contra Galatians 2:16). (In fact, in the preface on page 7, Piper dedicates this book to Daniel Fuller and states that one of Fuller's, albeit controversial, books is \\"an explanatory background to most of what I write.\\" Fuller is known in many evangelical circles for advocating a law-gospel synthesis and rejecting justification by faith alone.) Another controversial aspect of this book is Piper's notion of \\"conditional grace\\" (chaps. 18-20). In chapter 19, Piper states that there are eleven conditions Christians must meet in order to inherit future grace (i.e., final salvation).      One of the more controversial ones is \\"covenant keeping.\\" He states: \\"I am hard pressed to imagine something more important for our lives than fulfilling the covenant that God has made with us for our final salvation\\" (p. 249). This seems hardly evangelical. Evangelical Protestants (esp. Lutherans and Calvinists) say that Christ fulfilled the law/covenant on behalf of the elect. The only wayto receive the benefits of Christ's obedience and death is through faith alone. I believe Piper really dropped the ball on this one. He comes perilously close to formulating a view of salvation that has affinities with the Medieval scholastics of Luther's time. This is important to highlight since so many so-called evangelical pastors and teachers today deny (explicitly or implicitly) many tenets of the evangelical faith and still want to be called evangelical or Protestant.  <br /> <br />Overall, I would recommend this book...with caution. Read the book with a discerning eye and take out what is unnecessary and unbiblical. Popular authors can make mistakes at times and Piper certainly does in this book.	2005-06-29
US	49830940	R1VOA531H66FPI	0801022622	688012002	Biblical Preaching: The Development and Delivery of Expository Messages	Books	5	23	24	N	N	Every preacher must own this	If you're a novice pastor or preacher and you're lost on how to formulate and deliver a sermon this book is the best place to start. Robinson's book is not only organized, practical, scholarly, and easy to understand it is also passionate about the subject matter at hand. Robinson gives good and effective pointers on how to formulate sermons, do exegesis, and to speak behind the pulpit (or capturing the congregation's attention). Another good aspect about the book is that it is written from an explicitly evangelical perspective. In a time when evangelical preaching is going down the tubes this book is a great guide on how to biblically preach to a congregation and remain faithful to God's word. This book must be in every pastor's library.	2005-06-22
US	49830940	R25WOJXC2T8HCL	0802839746	450079635	Finding the Will of God: A Pagan Notion?	Books	5	53	59	N	N	A balanced and biblical view	When one starts to read this book one will be shocked to find out that many professing Christians today practice the same type of paganistic rituals that they condemn. Waltke shows the reader in this book that \\"tapping\\" into God's will through various silly routines and rituals to find out what career to launch into, who to marry, what school to attend, etc. is no different from a pagan offering a gift to his god to look for divine knowledge. The book is divided into two main parts. The first part investigates the idea of \\"finding God's will.\\" Waltke nicely summarizes the various ways Christians seek God's will and concludes that the methods often employed are nothing but paganistic (e.g., blindly opening up the Bible and pointing to a particular passage as God's word for you today). The second part deals with how Christians can TRULY know what God wills. Waltke's main contention is that God's Holy Word (Scripture) and the Holy Spirit that lives within us (who gives us holy desires) offer believers guidance in pointing to what God wills from believers.    It is refreshing to read a well-respected scholar bringing us back to the Bible when it comes to discerning God's will. Too many Christians these days do silly rituals or look for \\"divine signs\\" to know God's will. However, as Waltke points out, God does not give his revelatory light if we are searching for it. Other key points Waltke makes is that we must seek wise counsel from mature Christians when we are at a fork on the road in our lives, that God's providence provides us with information (even though we may not understand at the beginning why God allows, sometimes difficult, events to occur), and that Christians must use their common sense (which is part of common grace) when making a decision. In all of these points, Waltke's main point is that we cannot allow circumstances, \\"signs\\", other people, etc. to usurp the authority of Scripture and the Spirit's illumination when reading it in finding God's guidancefor our lives. Though God did employ supernatural methods to speak to the saints during  biblical times, Waltke states that this is not the norm. Even if God can employ supernatural methods to speak to his children he has given us ample information in Scripture. Therefore, God does not need to come down and appear as a light to reveal what he requires and wills. Too many modern evangelical churches (especially of the radical charismatic sorts) have allowed Scripture to be buried underneath the fantastic and spectacular. Waltke, however, rightly points us back to Scripture and rightly points out that what God wills for ALL Christians is that they be faithful and holy during their Christian pilgrimage. I highly recommend this book to all Christians. It will help Christians realize what to sift out of their so-called Christian practices and how to employ biblical methods in discerning what God wills for our lives - which is to be a holy priesthood in a world ravaged by sin.	2005-06-20
US	49830940	R2XBHAY26K4VAI	1894667018	40676883	Seasons of Grace	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	A hidden gem	If one wants a devotional book that is compassionate, pastoral, and biblical then one must not pass up on this one. Unfortunately, this book is not widely known among Christians (hence, the reason why it is \\"a hidden gem\\"). Though it may not be as well-exposed as other Christian living books written by well-known evangelicals like John Piper, John MacArthur, or Dallas Willard this book cannot be ignored. The book is written according to the four seasons and each section is geared towards how a particular season speaks to us spiritually. For instance, under the Winter season, Shepherd talks about the pain in the wilderness in our spiritual journey. Though geared towards individual matters, Shepherd does not neglect social and corporate issues that face Christians and the church. This is refreshing since many modern evangelicals have individualized the faith to the point where cosmic or social matters are put to the sidelines. However, redemption is also cosmic and corporate as Paul makes it clear in Romans 8:18-21. Shepherd rightly ties the believer's individual spiritual progress with his or her responsibility to the world. One will find this work comforting and challenging. Comforting in that it tells us that God is a faithful God when we are in the wilderness of despair. Challenging in that we are told to wake up from our spiritual stupor to serve the Almighty God. Another positive aspect of this book is its readability. Shepherd writes in an enthusiastic and sometimes humourous way that makes this book a treat to read. It is not dry and technical like most other devotional books but lively and uplifting. I highly recommend this book to all Christians who want to deepen their walk with Christ.	2005-06-09
US	49830940	R22H0KP8ZWOD0S	1590521196	672266902	Desiring God: Meditations of a Christian Hedonist	Books	5	2	8	N	N	A must read!	If there is ONE book that all Christians should have to know the matrix of the Christian life, then this book is it. This book covers various issues that are pertinent to the Christian life: God's happiness, conversion, worship, love, scripture, prayer, money, marriage, missions, and suffering. The key that wraps all these topics together, according to Piper, is this: \\"The chief end of man is to glorify God BY enjoying Him forever.\\" To be a Christian hedonist, according to Piper, is to find the utmost pleasure in God. Not in the sense of finding pleasure in God because He gives things to people (like the way health-wealth preachers teach) but finding pleasure in God for who He is! God wants to share His happiness as a result of His grace and Christians are the recipients of this happiness. Also, one will find Appendix 3 (\\"Is God Less Glorious Because He Ordained That Evil Be? Jonathan Edwards on the Divine Decrees\\") to be very informative and insightful. This section answers the \\"why\\" regarding the existence of evil in this world. It is basically an apologetic for the Calvinistic view of God and providence and shoots down the god of Openness theology. I highly recommend this book to all believers - new and old. Whatever issues you are facing in life, this book will make you became theocentric in your outlook on life and how you live your Christian life.	2005-06-03
US	49830940	R2C5S9T35KPWNQ	1565636767	191413141	Paul and the Jews (Library of Pauline Studies)	Books	5	11	11	N	N	A good sequel	Here is another good book examining the merits of the New Perspective on Paul. In contrast to his previous book \\"Paul, the Law, and the Covenant,\\" Das deals more with themes pertaining to the New Perspective than providing a rigorous examination of certain passages in Second Temple literature, Romans and Galatians. In this book, instead, he examines the place and role of ethnic Israel, the Mosaic Law, and Jesus Christ in redemptive history. Particularly good are chapters two, three, six, and seven. In these chapters Das deals with the issue of the Law in the post-Mosaic dispensation period. In summary, Das argues that there is an antithetical relationship between Christ and the Law, and that the Law pointed to Christ all along (the only means of salvation). He also nicely summarizes in three points what is wrong with the Law in light of Christ: 1) it requires perfect obedience; 2) it excluded Gentiles from enjoying the blessings of the covenant; and 3) it enslaved sinners. However, the Law is not done away with for those in Christ. Christians, through the power of the Holy Spirit, can and do fulfill the Law. Overall, this book is a useful addition to the collection of works that have sprung up in recent years responding to the New Perspective on Paul.	2005-05-21
US	49830940	R3OI6AF4GNF7DZ	1579108598	887731243	Divine Sovereignty and Human Responsibility: Biblical Perspective in Tension	Books	3	35	54	N	Y	Not the best book on the subject	What do you get when a biblical scholar writes a book on a difficult theological topic? Not a very good book. Carson attempts to explain the divine sovereignty-human responsibility tension in Scripture and early Jewish literature. He goes over the Old Testament, Apocrypha, Pseudopigrapha, DSS, and a host of other Jewish literature. According to Carson, as Judaism progressed in time human responsibility became more emphasized and merit theology began to develop (though DSS can be seen as an exception). He basically refutes E. P. Sanders' view that early Judaism was a highly grace oriented religion with no concept of \\"earned\\" righteousness (though he agrees with Sanders that early Judaism did not totally put aside God's grace in the salvific process). The section on how the OT and early Jews understood the tension is slightly informative. It can provide students some information on how early Jews formulated the tension between grace and merit. The more interesting (and more useful) sections of Carson's book is how the Gospel of John formulates the tension between divine sovereignty and human responsibility (chap. 12) and the theological implications of his study (chap. 13). Carson argues that John keeps the tension in balance (though not totally solving the dilemma) by positing BOTH divine sovereignty and human responsibility in people's actions. He argues that John, following the OT, does not see the logical incoherence of holding both concepts at the same time (i.e., humans are commanded to believe and obey even though God is sovereign over all human actions). The last chapter (13) pretty much summarizes all the points made in the book. What is interesting is that Carson does not come to a firm conclusion on the matter except to conclude that this tension is a lot more complex than the human mind can process. One wishes that Carson can push this matter a bit further - but, again, he is not a theologian or philosopher but a biblical scholar. In the end, what Carson comes up with is a compatibilist (Calvinist) concept of divine sovereignty-human responsibility (in contrast to the more classical Calvinistic model promoted by the likes of Charles Hodge). Overall, the book is useful in some respects. However, because this was Carson's doctoral dissertation at one point the reader will find the reading a bit difficult at times.omes up with is a compatibilist (Calvinist) concept of divine sovereignty-human responsibility (in contrast to the more classical Calvinistic model promoted by the likes of Charles Hodge). Overall, the book is useful in some respects. However, because this was Carson's doctoral dissertation at one point the reader will find the reading a bit difficult at times.	2005-05-02
US	49830940	R3IB58TGH3FKNG	0802839916	705188161	Where is Boasting?: Early Jewish Soteriology and Paul's Response in Romans 1–5	Books	4	26	30	N	N	Very Interesting	This work by Simon J. Gathercole is another attempt to question the merits of the so-called New Perspective on Paul. There are two major parts to this work. In the first half (pp. 37-194), Gathercole examines Jewish soteriology in the pre and post 70 A.D. situation. He notes that in all the strands of Judaism and its major literature (Apocrypha, Pseudepigrapha, Dead Sea Scrolls, etc.), there is a heavy emphasis (contrary to Sanders) on the necessity of obedience/works to vindicate/justify oneself before God at the last judgment. Gathercole's main point is that contrary to Sanders and his followers early Judaism was a works-righteousness religion (though grace was not absent in Jewish soteriology). One thing I found quite interesting about this section is his discussion of Jewish soteriology in the New Testament (pp. 112-135). He argues that Jewish works-righteousness soteriology was adopted in some form by Christians in the first century as evidenced in such writings as James 2 and Revelation 20:11-15. According to Gathercole, these passages do not say that good works are merely the fruits of having received God's grace (i.e., saved) but that these good works actually DETERMINE one's eternal destiny at the last judgment (p. 135).  <br /> <br />The second half of the work (pp. 195-262) is an exposition of Paul's response to early Judaism in Romans 1-5. What is interesting about Gathercole's take on Romans 1-3 is that contrary to traditionalist approaches to this passage, Paul was not combatting Jewish legalism but about Jewish presumptuousness! What Paul condemned was the over-confident attitude of many Jews of his time regarding their \\"saved\\" status. His polemic in Romans 1-2 was to teach Jews that they are just as guilty as Gentiles for their sins and that they have no right to claim covenantal privilege or superiority as a result. I found this conclusion by Gathercole quite interesting (however, I was not convinced). However, Gathercole agrees with traditionalistscholars that Paul opposed the law because it could not bring redemption to anyone (Gentile or Jew) who followed it and that his doctrine of justification by faith was already an essential part of his theological understanding of God and humanity (contrary to many New Perspective advocates who argue that Paul's doctrine of justification by faith arose out of situational concerns). Having said that, readers should be aware that Gathercole departs from the traditional Protestant understanding of grace and salvation on a number of points. For instance, he acknowledges that good works are determinative on where a person will spend eternity. He also denies the imputation of Christ's righteousness to believing sinners (p. 224). One can say that Gethercole presents a non-traditionalist critique of the New Perspective on Paul. <br /> <br />Overall, this work is a useful resource for those wanting a good understanding of early Jewish soteriology and how Paul responded to it in Romans 1-5.	2005-04-28
US	49830940	R1209P4NL3XYEA	0570032210	436471752	Christian Dogmatics	Books	5	17	18	N	N	Possibly the best evangelical Lutheran systematic theology	This book is essentially a condensation of Francis Pieper's four volume set. However, it is easier to read and contains an extra section (on the Millennial Kingdom). It is also not cumbersome to use since it is a single volume containing about 665 pages. Mueller's secton on prolegomena (pp. 1-89) is one of the best you will ever read from an orthodox evangelical perspective. He upholds the orthodox understanding of the inspiration of Scripture and promotes an uncompromising evangelical theological methodology. This section is one of the jewels of Mueller's work. The rest of the book is a treatment of the standard subjects of systematic theology from a confessional Lutheran perspective (LCMS). Even if you're a non-Lutheran it is worth the time to read Mueller's treatment of the various subjects just to get a good understanding of what confessional Lutherans believe. I heartedly recommend this readable volume.	2005-04-28
US	49830940	R3TG5B2F81KGGI	0875523633	814021955	The Covenant of Grace: A Biblico-Theological Study (Biblical & Theological Studies)	Books	4	11	12	N	N	Good Introduction to the Biblical Covenants	If anyone wants a brief introduction (and I mean BRIEF, only 32 pages) to the various covenants of the Bible, then this book will do. Contrary to what some might expect, this book is NOT an apologetic for Reformed covenant theology as outlined in the Westminster Confession of Faith. It is actually about the function and nature of the various historical covenants as presented in Scripture (i.e., Noahic, Abrahamic, Mosaic, Davidic, and New). Murray does not even touch upon the concept of the \\"covenant of works\\" in this short booklet (if one wants Murray's opinion on this matter check out his \\"Collected Writings\\" [Vol. 2]).     One of the more helpful discussions is Murray's discussion of the meaning of covenant (pp. 3-12). He does this to give the reader a good understanding of the term before explaining the nature of the covenants in Scripture. The key point in Murray's discussion of the various covenants is that the covenants (including the Mosaic!) are all covenants of grace (God being the establisher of each covenant apart from human cooperation). All subsequent covenants are merely amplifications and expansions of the preceding ones, even though all have the same grace-oriented matrix.     Another interesting point Murray makes is that all the covenants have a \\"promise-demand\\" structure attached to them. Though all the covenants spring from God's grace, they all contain \\"conditions\\" that the beneficiaries must meet in order to enjoy the promises of the covenant. This does not detract from the graciousness of the covenants, according to Murray, but merely points out that the nature of all covenants demand stipulations.     Murray's insistence that the Mosaic covenant is a covenant of grace and that all the promissory covenants contain a demand element makes him a maverick among traditional Reformed theologians. In fact, if put to its logical end, Murray dissolves the wall between law and gospel that is the hallmark of traditional Reformational theology. In short,in Murray's theology of the covenants, law and gospel lie more in continuity than in contrast (contra Luther). This may surprise (and even disappoint) those who are steeped in traditional Reformed theology as outlined in the WCF since Murray is considered one of the giants of conservative Presbyterianism in North America in the 20th century.     I have to agree with the critics of Murray's covenant theology that he perilously comes close to mixing law and gospel (when Scripture presents more of a contrast). Despite these questionable points, I would recommend this short work to anyone who wants to understand what the covenants in the Bible mean.	2005-04-28
US	49830940	R2FGTSUMLI2RPW	0800618114	186176805	Paul The Apostle	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Interesting and good	Those of you who want a Pauline theology book that goes straight to the meaning of Paul's writings without dogmatic interpretations of the text should read this book. Beker does an excellent job laying out Paul's theological convictions in an easy to read and scholarly manner. Beker's thesis is that Paul's theological center is the apocalyptic triumph of God through Christ. He develops his thesis with an interesting proposal on Pauline hermeneutics--the coherent center working alongside contingent particularities. Though Beker may not get much support from the more orthodox and traditionalist crowds regarding methodology, one cannot but respect Beker's attempt to stay true to Paul's writings. Though some of Beker's views may turn-off conservative Christians (he denies Pauline authorship to Ephesians), he generally presents a view that sticks to the mainline Christian tradition. Overall, a good book to read on Pauline theology. I would balance this book out with a more evangelical and conservative Pauline theology book like F. F. Bruce's \\"Paul, Apostle of the Heart Set Free\\" or Thomas Schreiner's \\"Paul, Apostle of God's Glory in Christ\\".	2005-04-19
US	49830940	RZJ6Z25BF7V6H	0802421873	901890582	Dispensationalism	Books	4	22	27	N	N	Helpful Book on Understanding Dispensationalism	When I started reading this book I was kind of skeptical because I pretty much knew the arguments for dispensationalism. However, as I kept reading the book I found out that there were lots of things I didn't know about the arguments for dispensationalism.  This book should be read by both dispensationalists and non-dispensationalists. For the dispensationalist to understand their system more; for the non-dispensationalist to understand the system period. Ryrie's chapter on Hermenuetics is good. I also thought his chapters on Progressive Dispensationalism and Covenant Theology were helpful. Though he doesn't get too indepth on why Covenant Theology is unbiblical, he does bring up questions and insights about Covenant Theology. This book is a recommended read for those who are trying to understand this movement within the conservative-evangelical circle. Even if you're not a dispensationalist this book is a great help to understand why dispensationalists are dispensationalists.	2005-04-19
US	49830940	R11EQQRLO8H2FR	0802811892	550525654	Basic Christianity	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Excellent for Personal Devotion	This book is the right place to start if you want to learn the essentials of evangelical Christianity. Stott does an excellent job outlining who Christ was/is, what He did, and why He had to come and die on the Cross. He also does a good job in explaining man's need and the devastating effects sin brought on mankind. Though his interpretations of the the Ten Commandments are a bit extreme, he does a good job explaining that the root of the problem is not the external Commandments themselves but the depravity of human hearts. He also does a good job explaining why we must make a personal decision for Christ, and that our Christian upbringing or church attendance will not justify us before God. The last section of the book deals with our privileges and responsibilities as Christians. He explains that as Christians we have an intimate and personal relationship with God due to Christ's sacrifice on the Cross. Also, he strongly believes that Christians can and should have assurance of their salvation and that all Christians (no matter what their spiritual progression/regression) have a secure relationship with the Father. He also points out that as Christians we not only have a responsibility to God, but also to the Church (loving and helping fellow believers) and the world (in evangelizing to the lost). Overall, I would highly recommend this book to \\"babes in Christ\\" and mature believers.	2005-04-19
US	49830940	RC03CI7VQ4AK1	083082684X	615130523	Biblical Theology: Retrospect & Prospect	Books	3	22	29	N	N	The Good, the Okay, and the Unorthodox	Once in a while you stumble upon a theological book that enlightens you, edifies you, and confuses you all at the same time. This book is one of those books that does that to the reader. I will first say the positive things about the book before discussing the negatives. The book is divided into four sections dealing with the OT, the NT, the unity of the Bible, and the prospect of biblical theology in that order (so the reader will get a clear idea what the writer is discussing about).<br /><br />Positives:<br /><br />This book does contain some pretty good essays. OT essays by John Sailhamer and William Dumbrell were well written (Richard Schultz essay on the various modern OT theology methods might be valuable to those doing research on the OT). James M. Scott, Andreas Kostenberger, and G. K. Beale also wrote good essays from a NT perspective. Paul House's essay will make many people rethink their methods on how to do biblical theology. Graeme Goldsworthy's short essay is a nice way to top it all off by linking the importance of (correct) biblical theology with theological formation, education, and ministry.<br /><br />Negatives:<br /><br />Unfortunately, there are a couple of essays that are sour disappointments. The first one is Daniel Fuller's essay \\"Progressive Dispensationalism and the Law/Gospel Contrast\\" (pp. 237-48). Fuller has found another theological paradigm to attack to further his anti-sola fide agenda. Like his previous critique on Reformed covenant theology and classical dispensationalism, he argues that progressive dispensationalism also dichotimizes the law and Gospel (you could also say he has no fondness for Lutheranism and New Covenant Theology). He refutes the law/gospel dichotomy of PD by examining six \\"corners\\" of the debate. In fact, he says some things that might make traditional Protestants wearisome: \\"Commandments that bring mercy to those obeying them--these are laws of faith\\" (p. 245). Is Fuller suggesting that grace-driven law-keeping is a means of obtaining God's salvific mercy? If so, Fuller's traditionalist critics are correct when they say that he has departed from justification by faith alone (those who don't recognize this are being dishonest and inconsistent). Another essay that should cause many to worry is Ted Dorman's \\"The Future of Biblical Theology\\" (pp. 250-63). Dorman's goal of ecumenical dialogue has made him slip outside the boundaries of orthodox Protestantism. His advocacy of the \\"works of the Law\\" as \\"legalism\\" is not supported by most commentators. Also, he likes the idea of fusing justification with sanctification (p. 262). He even candidly admits that \\"the Reformers introduced a 'notional distinction' between justification (imputed righteousness) and sanctification (infused righteousness) where none had previously existed\\" (Ibid). Dorman can claim to be semi-Catholic or semi-Protestant (more accurately, he follows the view of righteousness advocated by the German school), but he definitely does not fit the bill of an orthodox Protestant.<br /><br />Overall, a good work. Scott Hafemann's inclusion of the essays by Fuller and Dorman pretty much reveals where he lies on the soteriological spectrum (Hafemann follows closely with Fuller's view of the Law). Having said that, the book should be read by those interested in learning more about biblical theology and how it relates to ministry and personal sanctification.g is a means of obtaining God's salvific mercy? If so, Fuller's traditionalist critics are correct when they say that he has departed from justification by faith alone (those who don't recognize this are being dishonest and inconsistent). Another essay that should cause many to worry is Ted Dorman's \\"The Future of Biblical Theology\\" (pp. 250-63). Dorman's goal of ecumenical dialogue has made him slip outside the boundaries of orthodox Protestantism. His advocacy of the \\"works of the Law\\" as \\"legalism\\" is not supported by most commentators. Also, he likes the idea of fusing justification with sanctification (p. 262). He even candidly admits that \\"the Reformers introduced a 'notional distinction' between justification (imputed righteousness) and sanctification (infused righteousness) where none had previously existed\\" (Ibid). Dorman can claim to be semi-Catholic or semi-Protestant (more accurately, he follows the view of righteousness advocated by the German school), but he definitely does not fit the bill of an orthodox Protestant.<br /><br />Overall, a good work. Scott Hafemann's inclusion of the essays by Fuller and Dorman pretty much reveals where he lies on the soteriological spectrum (Hafemann follows closely with Fuller's view of the Law). Having said that, the book should be read by those interested in learning more about biblical theology and how it relates to ministry and personal sanctification.	2005-04-19
US	49830940	R3KO4JQ5FCNJSN	0801020867	601903383	Exegetical Fallacies	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Excellent Introduction to Exegetical Fallacies	If one wants to know how some fine Christian scholars make exegetical mistakes and what the correctives are, this book should be the first place to start. Carson tackles exegetical flaws that commonly abound in commentaries and theological works and does it with pin-point accuracy and straightforwardness. He exposes flaws not only committed by non-evangelical scholars, but those considered evangelical! He shows how exegetical fallacies are committed by the choice of words used, improper grammer use, improper use of logic, and ones presuppositions and historical attachments. This book will make you think about how you've always read the Bible and make you rise above the typical wooden way of reading the Scriptures. This book is easy to understand for the laity and seminary student, but also scholarly enough for theologians to use as a reference tool. This book is important for those trying to understand how to avoid making exegetical mistakes when reading the Bible.	2005-04-19
US	49830940	R20FLQWLFNONAX	0830826610	180924057	Revisiting Paul's Doctrine of Justification: A Challenge to the New Perspective	Books	4	19	21	N	N	Pretty Good Response to the New Perspective	This short book is a good introductory critique on the New Perspective view of Paul (Sanders, Dunn, Stendahl, et al). The book is short and uncomplicated so that the average layperson can understand what the New Perspective teaches and what the criticisms are against it. Stuhlmacher is a German moderate evangelical and generally holds to the traditional Protestant understanding of justification. However, I do have some reservations on some of Stuhlmacher's views. On page 62, he states that the \\"distinction between 'imputed' righteousness...and 'effective' righteousness...cannot be maintained by Paul. Both belong together for the apostle.\\" Thus, Stuhlmacher is blurring (I assume unintentionally) the line between Trent and traditional Protestantism on justification. Also, he takes the \\"re-creational\\" view of justification (p. 73). However, he does maintain that the Final Judgment for Christians \\"will determine not their salvation or damnation but only their position in the kingdom of God and of his Christ\\" (p. 69). Thus, he separates himself from those who promote a nomistic \\"Gospel\\" that is being preached popularly within \\"evangelical\\" circles today. Finally, Donald Hagner's contributory essay (chapter 4) is a must read. Hagner examines the New Perspective and sees whether it has Biblical foundations (which it does not). Overall, a good book critiquing a movement that has influenced a significant section of Christianity today.	2005-04-19
US	49830940	R2YIHE607YDBIQ	0801021014	581270491	Basic Guide to Interpreting the Bible, A: Playing by the Rules	Books	4	14	14	N	N	Very Good and Easy to Read	If you're interested in learning the basics of proper Biblical hermeneutics, this is a book for you. Stein does a good job presenting the material in an easy-to-read fashion, yet writes in a very scholarly manner. The book is divided into two sections: The first section deals with the general rules of interpretation (the first four chapters); the second section deals with how to interpret proverbs, prophecies, poetry, idioms, hyperboles, parables, narratives, epistles, covenants, laws, and songs (chapters 5-13). The book is generally geared towards the average lay person or beginner seminary student. It can be used as a technical hermeneutical aid or as a tool to assist the average believer in how to read the Bible properly during Bible studies and quiet times. Stein's book is a valuable resource that should be available in every Christian bookshelf.	2005-04-19
US	49830940	R239B4SXD6QWSL	0875521126	979706241	The Reformed Doctrine of Predestination	Books	4	49	52	N	N	Pretty Good Book on Calvinism	Anyone interested in the Reformed faith (or Calvinism) should start here. It is easy to read and suited for the layperson. The book is divided into six sections: In the first section he deals with terms and concepts related to predestination (e.g., the sovereignty of God, the providence of God, the foreknowledge of God, etc.). The first section is an excellent start-off point for the reader. The second section deals with the five points (or TULIP). Boettner does an excellent job explaining what each of the five points mean (and what it does NOT mean). The third section deals with common objections presented by non-Calvinists against the Calvinistic understanding of predestination. Boettner, again, does a fine job refuting the typical arguments of non-Calvinists. The fourth section deals with issues of salvation by grace, personal assurance, predestination in the physical world, etc. The fifth chapter deals with the practical importance of the Calvinistic doctrine of predestination. Finally, the sixth chapter deals with the history of Calvinism. The chapters are well written and makes a good case for the Calvinistic system. Boettner presents his arguments well and anticipants and responds to possible objections in each chapter. The only problem I have with this book is its postmillennial bias (this is especially evident in his final chapter on the history of Calvinism). This is the only downfall of the book. In order for Boettner to relieve the \\"harsher\\" aspects of predestination, he advocates the idea that in the end more people will be in heaven than in hell. Of course, we should let the Bible speak for itself and not try to sugar-coat it with hypotheses to \\"soften\\" difficult truths taught in the Bible. Another downfall of the book is its age. Many contemporary readers will find that some of the issues that Boettner brings up are obsolete. Overall, though, a good introductory level book on the Calvinistic doctrine of predestination.	2005-04-19
US	49830940	R3FZUPL1CJTV9M	0310371015	650495150	Toward an Old Testament Theology	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Standard OT Theology Book from an Evangelical Perspective	This has to be one of the best written OT theology books written from a conservative and evangelical perspective. Trying to study OT theology from a conservative perspective without reading Kaiser's work is trying to study Calvinism without reading Calvin's \\"Institutes\\". This probably being Kaiser's \\"magnum opus\\" book should be read by all students of OT studies and theology. Kaiser writes from a \\"promise-fulfillment\\" perspective and avoids the excesses of both \\"replacement theology\\" and classical dispensationalism. One of his arguments being that the OT authors had multiple fulfillments in mind when writing about the realization of the promises in the future. Thus, though the great promise will be fulfilled in the Church age to a degree, it will be fulfilled in completeness at the Parousia. The book has a nice flow and organization to it. It goes over all the major periods of OT history (Chapters 5-15) and up to the NT (Chapter 16). The first section of the book (Chapters 1-4) deal with OT theological methodology. Many may find these first four chapters dry and technical, but it is a good introduction to get the reader started. It also includes a bibliography and a full index. The only complaint I have is that the pages are made of beige-coloured paper-back novel paper. I hope in a future edition the publishers will print this book with better quality paper. Overall, though, this book is highly recommended to all students of OT theology.	2005-04-19
US	49830940	R3TZ1M2V1JNBI2	1565634632	310542011	Paul, the Law, and the Covenant	Books	5	16	17	N	N	A needed book...	For those who have been caught up and influenced by the New Perspective should definitely read this book. Das' book is very scholarly and indepth. He challenges the growing idea in Biblical scholarly circles that Second Temple Judaism was primarily a gracious religion rather than a works-righteousness one. Though Das doesn't totally agree with the traditional Protestant understanding of the Law and Gospel (he agrees, to a certain extent, with the New Perspective that Paul's criticisms against the Law were also against ethnic boundary-markers), he still maintains his course on the straight and narrow by positing that the fundamental disagreement of Paul with Second Temple Judaism was final justification by law-keeping. In chapters 1 and 2, Das does an excellent job showing us that early Judaism did advocate final justification by strict law-keeping mixed with a supposed grace (he refers to statements in the Jubilees, Philo's writings, the Tannaim sect, 4 Ezra, 2 and 3 Baruch, 2 Enoch, and the Testament of Abraham). The rest of the eight chapters (3-10) is a discussion of Paul's view on the relationship between the Law, the covenant, and justification. In chapters 3-5, Das does a good job showing that Paul would have disapproved of the OT covenantal nomistic system by examining various passages (Gal 3:10, 15-17; 4:21-31; 2 Cor 3:1-8; Romans 1-4, 7, 9-11; Phil 3:2-9). Chapters 6-10 are discussions on various key Pauline passages that deal with the Law. One of the key highlights of the book is Das' discussion of Galatians 3:10 (chapter six). He effectively critiques James Dunn's view that \\"works of the Law\\" refer to \\"ethnic boundary markers\\" (pp. 155-160) and Daniel Fuller's view that it refers to \\"legalistic misuse of the Law\\" (pp. 161-3), and convincingly argues that the verse is about the requirement of perfect obedience to the law (a view held by noted evangelical scholars like F. F. Bruce, Colin Kruse, George Ladd, Douglas Moo, and Stephen Westerholm). Thus, according to Gal 3:10, Paul opposes the Law because it couldn't/cannot bring salvation to those who obey it (or try to obey it). Chapters 7-10 deal with various passages in Romans. Though challenging some of the traditional Protestant assumptions of Second Temple Judaism, Das still maintains that Luther and Calvin essentially got it right when they interpreted Paul as combating the Second Temple Jewish idea that people were justified by keeping the Law. Overall, Das does a good job demonstrating that Paul's opposition to the Law was due to the fact that it was antithetical to justification by faith in Christ. It is apparent that there is a clear contradiction between justification by law-keeping (whether meritorious or Spirit-driven) and justification by faith alone. Unfortunately, some evangelical scholars and laymen cannot see that clear truth--the cause of so much confusion regarding on how one is justified before God these days. Das clears up the air on this issue. Historic Protestants have always been right: one cannot mix Law and Gospel together and one cannot claim to hold to sola fide and still maintain that the Law must be fulfilled in order to be justified at the eschaton. It is contradictory and illogical to hold to such a view to say the least.	2005-04-19
US	49830940	R2NWGZVCT7MLTX	0310232023	662605997	Introduction to Old Testament Theology: A Canonical Approach	Books	4	27	27	N	N	Very Scholarly Old Testament Theology	This book is for those who want an OT theology that is very detailed, highly-technical, and painstakingly exegetical. Sailhamer's book is not like the other OT theology books (e.g., Brevard Childs, Walter Kaiser, Eugene Merrill and Roy Zuck, Ralph Smith, and Bruce Waltke) that deal primarily with themes, messages, and ideas of the OT. The book is primarily hermeneutical and methodological (in fact, the major portion of the book [pp. 29-194] deals with methodology!). If one is looking for a thematical OT theology this book is not for you (try Kaiser, Smith, or Waltke). However, this is an excellent book for those who like to get into the nitty-gritty of OT exegesis and theological methodology. It is a difficult book to read so this book isn't for those who like to cruise through a book.	2005-04-19
US	49830940	R1F0RNXB5Y1WAG	0310304415	153262163	Case for Progressive Dispensationalism, The	Books	5	37	38	N	N	Good book on understanding Progressive Dispensationalism	For those who want a clear and scholarly presentation of this \\"newer\\" type of dispensationalism (i.e., progressive dispensationalism) that has gained much ground within conservative evangelical circles should look to this book. Saucy's book is filled with the desire to be faithful to the Scriptures and to uphold God's glory. The book is divided into four main sections: 1) Introduction; 2) The Present Age and Old Testament Prophecy; 3) The Church in Salvation History; and 4) The Place of Israel. The first section deals with the differences between dispensationalism and non-dispensationalism. The main difference being the way \\"the historical plan and the goal of that plan through which God will bring eternal glory to himself\\" is understood (p. 20). Section two deals with the Abrahamic covenant, the Mosaic covenant, the Kingdom, and the New Covenant and the salvation of the gentiles. Saucy does a good job here presenting the \\"already/not yet\\" aspects of the covenants and the kingdom. The Abrahamic and New covenants being partially fulfilled in the Church age but completely fulfilled in the Millennium. The third section deals with the church in salvation history. Saucy again does a good job presenting the case for an \\"already/not yet\\" view, yet maintaining the distinction between Israel and the Church. The fourth section deals with the place of Israel. Saucy does an excellent job showing why Israel still has a role to play in God's redemptive program and why all the OT prophecies cannot be fulfilled in the Church age. He demonstrates this by going over the OT prophetic writings, some Pauline passages (particularly Romans 11), other NT passages, and the role Israel plays in salvation history. Particularly useful is Saucy's examination of Romans 11. He makes a convincing case why Paul was referring to national Israel rather than \\"spiritual\\" or \\"remnant\\" Israel in the passage. Also, Saucy's discussion of why Israel must still have a role to play in God's revelatory and salvific program is convincing (God still needs Israel to carry out His revelatory and salvific purposes). Overall, this book is a good starter for those seminarians who want a good understanding of this developing system.	2005-04-19
US	49830940	R1KOOUW714L89S	0941037517	14630152	God's Design: A Focus on Old Testament Theology	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Excellent OT Theology Book from an Evangelical Perspective	Anyone interested in OT theology should start here. As a beginner-level book it should give seminary students and laypeople no problems while it is still academic enough for the scholar as reference. Martens uses Exodous 5:22-6:8 as the center of OT theology (or \\"God's design\\" in redemptive history). He argues that the OT and the story of Israel are to show God as the Saviour and Redeemer of mankind and creation. He uses four themes to argue his thesis: deliverance, community, knowledge of God, and land. Martens shows that God's design goes through the three major periods of OT history (the Pre-Monarchy era, the Monarchy era, and the Post-Monarchy era) and up to the New Testament period (God's design being fulfilled in Christ for Jews and Gentiles). The structure of the book is well organized and each theme is discussed in each period of Biblical history. With so many OT theology books written by liberal/criticalist/modernist scholars it is very refreshing to see an OT theology book written from an evangelical and conservative viewpoint. This book is a must read and will give peace of mind to many who are looking for an OT theology book that sees the Bible as God's divinely inspired Word.	2005-04-19
US	49830940	R3HNWP0GKO829I	0664251757	135094111	Paul and Perserverance: Staying In and Falling Away	Books	5	22	22	N	N	Excellent Book on Paul's view of Perseverance	Anyone who is interested in a more balanced and Biblical understanding of \\"eternal security\\" or \\"perseverance of the saints\\" should consult this book. Gundry-Volf does an excellent job presenting the traditional Reformed view of perseverance and security through the writings of Paul. The exegesis and detailed analysis of difficult warning passages are outstanding. The book is divided into four sections that deal with Paul's perspective on how believers continue in the salvation already given to them through faith in Christ. The first section deals with the various passages that speak of Paul's understanding of soteriological security. Passages that are examined include: Romans 8:29-30; Philippians 1:6; 1 Corinthians 1:8-9, and several others. According to Gundry-Volf, Paul strongly argued FOR eternal security throughout his letters. The second section deals with how immoral conduct affects Christians' security according to Paul. According to Gundry-Volf, ethical failure among true believers does NOT jeopardize their salvation as proven by passages in Romans 14:1-23; 1 Corinthians 8:7-13; 11:27-34, but can lead to spiritual impoverishment and divine chastisement (even leading to physical death). However, certain more \\"grievous\\" sins practiced as a lifestyle can call into question the reality of salvation among certain members of the visible church (1 Corinthians 5:1-5; 6:9-11; and Galatians 5:19-21). Therefore, sin cannot interrupt the continuance of a believer's salvation, but serious sins practiced as a lifestyle demonstrate an unregenerate heart. The third section deals with Paul's understanding of Israel's election and how Israel fits into Paul's understanding of eternal security, and how professing Christians show themselves to be unsaved by abandoning the true Gospel. Gundry-Volf does an excellent job showing that Paul believed that Israel as a whole would someday convert to Christ before the Parousia (Romans 11:26), and that Paul doesn't hold out hope for salvation to those who turn away from or resist the Gospel presenting by him (Galatians 5:1-4). The last section deals with how Paul understood his calling as an Apostle and how his readers would be affected by his Apostolic mission. According to Gundry-Volf, Paul wished to \\"win the race\\" for approval, not for salvation (1 Corinthians 9:27). He wanted to successfully bring as many people into the Kingdom so that he may receive an eschatological reward on top of his salvation. He didn't question his salvation, but only his effectiveness as an Apostle. However, he feared that his labour would be in vain if his readers didn't respond to the Gospel he presented in a favourable way. Yet, he didn't question the salvation of those who responded positively; only those who rejected the Gospel and his Apostleship were in danger of proving themselves as unregenerate. Gundry-Volf's book lacks the shallow proof-texting of some who have written books on the same topic (e.g., Dan Corner). This book is very scholarly and thoroughly exegetical. Every difficult passage is examined and explained. However, I would recommend readers to learn some Biblical Greek and modern German before tackling this book since Gundry-Volf tends to use many Greek phrases and cite many German scholars. Overall, this is an excellent book for those wanting a better understanding of this very important issue.	2005-04-19
US	49830940	R39QA98CWBOCZC	0802407358	195411827	A Biblical Theology of the New Testament	Books	5	21	21	N	N	Excellent Book on New Testament Theology for Beginners	This is an excellent book on New Testament theology for those wanting good scholarship and conciseness. It is more directed towards seminary students and the laity who are interested in what the New Testament authors had to say about certain key theological topics of each NT book. The authors are all moderately dispensational, yet have views that comes close to mainline evangelicalism. All the books of the NT are covered and each major theological issue is not shelved aside. Unlike Ladd's NT Theology book, the authors don't get into great exegetical detail on certain passages, but give adequate treatments on certain difficult passages (e.g., Hebrews 6:4-8; James 2:14-26; 1 Peter 4:6 to name a few). Also, they discuss topics like the relationship of the OT Law to the Gospel, lordship salvation, and the issue of promise-fulfilment. David Lowery's treatment of Paul's Missionary Epistles (pp. 243-297) is outstanding and can be used as a \\"Pauline Theology\\" outline. This book has been underrated in evangelical circles due to its theological persuasion. However, all evangelicals (including those in the Reformed tradition) can find this book a valuable resource in NT studies. Also, the practical implications brought out in this book is excellent. It is not purely theological because the authors also put emphasis on how to use these theological themes into practical Christian living. The only negative side (a minor one) is that the editors did not put in a Scripture index. This would have greatly enhanced the book. Overall, though, a great NT theology book written by very competent scholars.	2005-04-19
US	49830940	RJKA0IOWEQ7XF	0802812805	965596427	Gospel of the Kingdom: Scriptural Studies in the Kingdom of God	Books	4	12	13	N	N	Good Introduction to the Gospel of the Kingdom	This book should be read by all those wanting a good understanding of the Kingdom of God and the contents of the Gospel. Ladd's thesis is that the coming of Christ was the fulfillment of Israel's hopes for a Kingdom of power and glory. Jesus himself was the hope that the Israelites were looking for. The Kingdom wasn't a socio-political entity to put on earth during the first century but the spiritual reformation of those who became members of the Kingdom. The only problem I have with this book is that Ladd's view of the Gospel borders on works-salvation since he puts a lot of emphasis on the judgment theme. Overall, though, a good book for those trying to get a good understanding of the Kingdom of God.	2005-04-19
US	49830940	R2BU456SSUK2K	0891074686	788549203	Continuity and Discontinuity (Essays in Honor of S. Lewis Johnson, Jr.): Perspectives on the Relationship Between the Old and New Testaments	Books	5	42	43	N	N	One of the BEST books on the topic	This book has to hit the top of the list when it comes to the topic of continuity and discontinuity between the OT and NT. The authors come from predominantly two theological backgrounds: Reformed (covenant) or dispensational (though D. Moo and W. Kaiser who side on the discontinuity side are not dispensationalists themselves). There are in total 7 parts to the book. Section 1 deals with introduction of the issues involved from a historical perspective (R. Peterson). Section 2 deals with systems of continuity (W. VanGemeren) and discontinuity (J. Feinberg). Section 3 deals with hermeneutics of continuity (O. Robertson) and discontinuity (P. Feinberg). Section 4 deals with salvation from a continuity perspective (F. Klooster) and discontinuity perspective (A. Ross). Section 5 deals with the Mosaic Law and its relationship to the NT (L. Chamblin and D. Moo). Section 6 deals with peoples of God between the Testaments (M. Woudstra and R. Saucy). Finally, section 7 deals with whether the Kingdom is spiritual (B. Waltke) or spiritual/material (W. Kaiser). <br />All the essays presented are well written and good. However, Chamblin's essay inadvertantly leads the Gospel of Grace to a Gospel of Law. One can see by some of the statements he makes that (pp. 187-200) the \\"Gospel\\" he presents is a type of works-righteousness ethic. This is the problem of attaching the Law to the Gospel. Also, Waltke essay's could use some humility and Christian courtesy on the way he interacts with those who oppose his view. Overall, though, an excellent book contributed by many fine evangelical scholars.	2005-04-19
US	49830940	R23GVSPBE5ZD5C	0664225012	475920391	Covenant and Eschatology: The Divine Drama	Books	5	22	23	N	Y	Monumental Work on Theological Formulation	For those who want an intermediate-advanced level book on theological formulation should start here. Horton, who also wrote and edited more \\"easier\\" books like \\"Putting Amazing Back to Grace\\", \\"The Agony of Deceit\\", and \\"Christ the Lord\\" writes a book that is possibly the most important work on theological-method written in the last decade from a conservative Reformed perspective. Horton examines the problems with modernists and postmodernists interpretations of the Bible and the type of world-view they extract and put onto it. I agree with his assessment of 20th century theological developments and how the Bible and theology are being used to satisfy secular and \\"individualistic\\" interests. As a result, theology is being accommodated to the surrounding culture and world-view rather than being formulated and expressed with faithfulness to the Word of God. Horton suggests that a \\"covenantal hermeneutic\\" will cure this problem that has infected not only liberal/mainline churches but conservative evangelical churches as well. The covenant hermeneutic will make believers see the future eschatological reign already present and \\"individualistic tendencies\\" replaced with the corporate nature of God's gracious covenant with believers. This book is a good corrective to the many hokey and unbiblical views regarding redemption, ethics, and worship that has sprung up in the last century within so many churches. Horton has done a service for the Body of Christ by writing this book. It is a difficult read and will take some effort, but it is worth it.	2005-04-19
US	49830940	R24Y0F6ZX2NWXC	1581342616	840835468	The God of Promise and the Life of Faith: Understanding the Heart of the Bible	Books	3	18	23	N	N	A Mixed Review	This is a book that is a good starting point for understanding God's actions throughout redemptive history. It is not difficult to read and there are many good points in it. However, there are some problems and questionable conclusions that make this book a mediocre one. However, before discussing the negatives I will first mention some of the positives. <br /> <br />Positives: <br />Hafemann's discussions (chapters 4 and 7) on the what it means to truly trust God despite one's circumstances is a gem. Many readers will find very helpful pastoral-like statements that will help them understand why God's people suffer and why believers should never fall into utter despair (and why trusting in God's provisions and promises are essential in overcoming this despair). Another good discussion is how the Bible reconciles God's character and sovereignty with the existence of suffering and sin (chapter 6). Hafemann does a good job refuting the common Arminian, \\"open-theist\\", and process views of theodicy (pp. 130-5). He opts for the typical Calvinist view that suffering and sin exist within God's plan so that He can reveal His glory to the world (pp. 135-9). Hafemann's discussion on theodicy is excellent and many will find convincing reasons why the Calvinist approach is the most Biblical and rational. <br /> <br />Negatives: <br />Hafemann actually denies in this book the Reformation principle of justification by faith alone. In fact, the view presented in the book is a departure from the view of justification advocated in the Formula of Concord, the Anglican Thirty-Nine Articles, the Westminster Confession of Faith, and the London Baptist Confession of Faith of 1689. In fact, Hafemann advocates a view of justification that is a combination of the forensic view of Protestantism and the re-creative view of Roman Catholicism (cf. p. 124). In fact, on page 180 he states: \\"Obeying in order to inherit God's future grace (his covenant blessings) means obeying in order not to inherit his future wrath (his covenant curses).\\" It is no surprise then that the \\"letter-spirit\\" approach to the Law is not widely accepted by most orthodox Protestants (cf. pp. 226-8 n. 15). Hafemann even questions the way Lutheran, Reformed, and Dispensational scholars have typically understood the Law's relationship to the Gospel (pp. 244-6 n. 6). Hafemann's view should be more accurately stated as justification by faith/works (or trust/law-keeping). This is basically a reemergence of the radical Anabaptistic view of the Law and Gospel. Many orthodox Protestants will find Hafemann's work questionable and controversial. For those who enthusiastically support Hafemann's view of the Law (and its relationship to the Gospel) should realize that they are the one's departing from the historic Protestant faith and not the Lutherans, Reformed, or Dispensationalists. <br /> <br />Regardless of all the questionable points made in the book it is a good place to start in understanding the hope believers have in the midst of their suffering and why God does what He does throughout history.	2005-04-19
US	49830940	R359LHQBV11E9I	0310577519	292905261	Covenant	Books	4	20	21	N	Y	Interesting Look at the Covenants of the Bible	This book sets out an interesting and original way of looking at the Biblical covenants. Walton's thesis is that the covenants are not primarily soteric or redemptive, but revelatory. Thus, his view of the covenants is significantly different from the views of covenant theology and dispensationalism. He argues that the OT covenants have a revelatory function during the OT period and that the New Covenant marks a transition point where a new people of God (the Church) is formed. He argues that the covenants are unconditional, but the benefits of the covenants are conditioned upon faithfulness on the part of the elect on the requirements of the covenants. His view of Israel and the Church is a mediating position between covenant theology and classical dispensationalism. Though he argues against replacement theology (covenant theology), he also argues against the view that Israel is still a separate people of God apart from the Church. He argues that Israel will possess certain future blessings in the Millennial Kingdom due to God's covenant promises with them, but present-day physical Israelites must accept Christ to become part of the new people of God (the Church). However, Jewish Christians are a different \\"sector\\" of God's family in the NT with different privileges and blessings that Gentile believers do not have any rights to. Also, Walton believes that the OT Law is a whole unit that has been \\"superimposed\\" by the Law of Christ. Therefore, NT believers have the Law implanted in their hearts so that they can render obedience to God. The external code is useful, but is inferior in that it cannot transform peoples' hearts. What is needed is the Holy Spirit to implant the Law in the heart so that people are able to obey God's commands. Walton gives us an interesting look at the covenants from a revelatory perspective. Covenant theologians and dispensationalists should read this book to get a better understanding of the nature of the OT covenants.	2005-04-19
US	49830940	R2QD3LF825T35M	0875524184	852261574	The Christ of the Covenants	Books	4	32	33	N	N	Good Book on the Covenants from a Reformed Perspective	Anyone interested in understanding the Biblical covenants from a Reformed standpoint should read this book. Robertson does a good job outlining the major covenants (the Covenant of Creation or Works, the Adamic Covenant, the Noahic Covenant, the Abrahamic Covenant, the Mosaic Covenant, the Davidic Covenant, and the Covenant of Consummation or New Covenant). In the first section, Robertson gives us an indepth treatment of the meaning and extent of a covenant using Biblical references and historical examples. In the second section, he gives us an outline of the Covenant of Creation (or Covenant of Works). The third section deals with all of the redemptive covenants after the fall of man. Roberton's main thesis is that all of the redemptive covenants are interrelated and are not separate entities. That there is a gradual progression and advancement in God's redemptive plan with each succeeding covenant. Particularly good was his last chapter dealing with the Covenant of Consummation (or New Covenant). He emphasizes that the New Covenant is both continuous and discontinuous from the Old Covenant. The Old Covenant being a covenant of condemnation because of continued disobedience among the Israelities; the New Covenant being a covenant of life because of the indwelling of the Spirit among God's people. I especially liked Robertson's irenic and humble tone. I was very appreciative about the fact that he did not try to label dispensationalists as \\"heretics\\" or \\"unorthodox.\\" On pages 201-2, he states that \\"it should not be forgotten that covenant theologians and dispensationalists stand side by side in affirming the essentials of the Christian faith. Very often these two groups within Christendom stand alone in opposition to the inroads of modernism, neo-evangelicalism, and emotionalism. Covenant theologians and dispensationalists should hold in highest regard the scholarly and evangelical productivity of one another. It may be hoped that continuing interchange may be basedon love and respect.\\" This kind of attitude is refreshing in contrast to many Reformed fanatics who label anyone outside their tradition as heretics. Perhaps many scholars from the same tradition as the author can learn what it means to be irenic. The only problem I have with the book is that it doesn't contain an author and subject index.	2005-04-19
US	49830940	R2FWK6Z9SDF39B	0802427340	754150552	Basic Theology: A Popular Systematic Guide to Understanding Biblical Truth	Books	5	75	77	N	Y	Excellent book on basic conservative evangelical theology	If you're trying to find a theology book that is easy to read, not to difficult, and gets to the point on every matter, this book is for you. Ryrie does an excellent job presenting every theological category from Theology proper to Eschatology in an easy and understandable way. Though it is not an indepth systematic theology textbook like those other ones that contain over a 1000 pages, this book won't disappoint you. Even though Ryrie doesn't spend pages upon pages on explaining or proving a doctrine he can get right to the matter with a few paragraphs. Although written from a dispensationalist and moderately Calvinistic perspective, you will not see harsh polemics against other views. Even his chapter on Eschatology doesn't contain harsh diatribe against opposing views but presents alternative views fairly and clearly. Also, his section on soteriology is very helpful emphasizing God's grace to the fullest. Even though Ryrie could have put in more categories in his book, it is understandable that he doesn't since this book is supposed to give readers a basic outline of major evangelical doctrines. If you're a new seminary student or a Christian just trying to understand what they teach at systematic theology courses this book is the right place to start. However, if you're planning to purchase this book, I would recommend you the newer edition published by Moody. The newer edition has better fonts, paper type, and a new section on Bible passages. Overall, this book should be had by any Christian that wants to understand the doctrines that come from the Bible.	2005-04-19
US	49830940	R1O2WG10V9CN5T	0825420628	617056092	Three Central Issues in Contemporary Dispensationalism: A Comparison of Traditional & Progressive Views	Books	5	59	64	N	N	Good Debate Between the "Old" and "New" Dispensationalists	This book is a good introduction of the differences between the old (traditional) and new (progressive) dispensationalism. The first essay of the book (by Bateman) deals with the origins and historical developments of dispensationalism. Bateman goes through the revisions that started after the Darby-Scofield-Chafer era, and through the middle of the Century (McClain-Pentecost-Ryrie-Walvoord days). Those wanting a good historical background on the developments of dispensational thought should consult Bateman's essay. <br /> <br />The first section deals with the hermeneutical differences between traditional and progressive dispensationalism. The difference being that progressives use a complementary hermeneutic which takes into account extra-biblical literature during the post-exilic era. Progressives have changed the structure of dispensationalism due to the realization that a wooden literal hermeneutic cannot be taken for granted, and that the practice of exegesis must be understood in the historical and cultural context of the period when the OT prophetic books were written. <br /> <br />The second section deals with the Abrahamic, Davidic, and New Covenants promised in the OT and how they relate to the Church. Both traditional and progressive dispensationalists agree that the Abrahamic and New Covenants have been partially realized in the Church today; the question is how much of these covenants have been realized in the Church. However, both camps agree that the OT covenants cannot be totally relegated to Israel during the Millennial Kingdom. <br /> <br />The third section deals with the differences between Israel and the Church. Both groups share the belief that Israelites were saved by grace through faith alone. That salvation has always been by God's grace and sovereignty. That there is no distinction between the Kingdom of God and the Kingdom of Heaven. The only differences between both camps is that progressives believe that there is more continuity betweenIsrael and the Church spiritually, and that the Church is not an interruption in God's soteric purposes. However, both groups tend to have more similarities than differences since both agree that Israel still has a place in God's redemptive plan. <br /> <br />Overall, a good debate between traditional and progressive dispensationalists on key theological issues.	2005-04-19
US	49830940	RU29LYJUCYW0	0764222880	383769649	The God Who Justifies	Books	5	30	31	N	Y	Outstanding Presentation of the Gospel	For those who want to understand the historic Protestant (and Biblical) understanding of justification this book should be the first place to start. White does an excellent job presenting the Gospel in its purity and wholeness without compromise. The structure of the book is well organized and easy to follow through. The first half of the book (pp. 17-123) deals with important themes related to the concept of justification. This includes topics like man's total depravity, sin, transgression, the meaning of justification, the reason for justification by faith alone, the grounds for our justification, and imputation of righteousness. The second half (pp. 125-374) is an exegetical defense of the historic Protestant understanding of justification. White goes over passages in Romans, Galatians, Ephesians, James, 2 Corinthians, and Titus. He makes a convincing and exegetically sound argument for the historic Protestant view of justification by faith alone. Though White gets very technical and detailed in his exegesis of these passages, even a layperson will have no trouble understanding what White is saying. Particularly valuable is his exegesis of James 2:14-26. Roman Catholics and pseudo-Protestants have often used this passage to attack the traditional Protestant understanding of justification by faith alone. However, White does an excellent job explaining what James REALLY meant to say in this passage (e.g., true faith is demonstrated before men by actions). This book is refreshing considering that in recent years the doctrine of justification by faith alone has not only been attacked by Roman Catholics, but also by those who claim to be evangelical Protestants! Yes, pseudo-Protestants are everywhere these days. This book, however, should set the record straight on what the Bible really teaches regarding justification. In fact, after reading this book one will realize that many groups who claim to be evangelical Protestants are actually NOT at all (e.g., Wesleyans, Holiness people, neo-Reformed groups, etc.). White has done the Body of Christ a great service by writing this book. This is an invaluable work that needs to be in every Christian bookshelf.liness people, neo-Reformed groups, etc.). White has done the Body of Christ a great service by writing this book. This is an invaluable work that needs to be in every Christian bookshelf.	2005-04-19
US	49830940	RAUQX155D2B8Q	0875524591	577098831	The Call of Grace: How the Covenant Illuminates Salvation and Evangelism	Books	2	5	20	N	N	Not convincing	The author of this book tries to demonstrate that to avoid legalism and antinomianism we must look at God's redemptive program \\"covenantally\\". There are two major sections in the book. The first section deals with the major redemptive covenants in the Bible (Abrahamic, Mosaic, and New); the second section deals with how the \\"covenant perspective\\" affects evangelism, election, and regeneration. Shepherd's approach is unlike that of other Reformed theologians. He argues that the \\"prophets and apostles viewed election from the perspective of the covenant, whereas we [modern Reformed theologians] have tended to view the covenant from the perspective of election\\" (p. 83). The thesis of this book is alarming and can undermine salvation by grace through faith alone. By emphasizing \\"covenant keeping\\" at the expense of Christ's sacrificial work and God's electing grace, Shepherd has turned around and gone back to the theology of the Medieval Scholastics that the Reformers opposed. In his discussion of the Mosaic Covenant, he argues that the Israelites had to obey the stipulations of this covenant in order to receive salvation (p. 40). Most Reformed scholars argue that the Mosaic Covenant did not provide eternal life, but temporal life in the Promised Land. Shepherd states that the Abrahamic Covenant was conditional, yet he forgets that God is the ONLY One who passed between the torn animals (Genesis 15:17). Therefore, God will fulfill this covenant regardless of the faithfulness (or faithlessness) of His people. Shepherd also states that the New Covenant is not opposed to the Mosaic Covenant (p. 57). If that is the case why did God have to give a New Covenant in the first place (Jeremiah 31:31)? The New Covenant is unconditional, and those who receive Christ will have the Law written in their hearts forever. He also states that in \\"Jesus we are enabled to become the covenant keepers that God intended us to be from the beginning\\" (Ibid). This sounds more like Romanism (with its view of infused righteousness) rather than Protestantism (with its view of imputed righteousness). Romanists say that we are infused with Christ's righteousness so that we can persevere and be successful covenant keepers. Shepherd's chapter on the Great Commission is deplorable and one can easily detect his postmillennial bias. I'm sorry to say but the Messianic Kingdom in its fullness cannot arrive in the present age, it will come at the Parousia (Revelation 20). His chapter on election is also controversial since no believer can have assurance of salvation since he or she cannot know whether he or she is an elect until he or she has fulfilled all the covenant requirements. I would argue (like most Reformed scholars do) that we are in the covenant of grace (or New Covenant) due to God's election of us in Christ. His accusation that traditional Reformed theologians cannot give comfort and assurance to struggling believers can also be turned around and used against his own view. Shepherd's theology does not only undermine assurance of salvation by putting primacy away from election, but destroys assurance by insisting on \\"covenant faithfulness\\" to the very end. Another disturbing part of Shepherd's book is his insistence that baptism \\"is therefore to be understood as of a piece with the total transformation of salvation\\" (p. 102). Therefore, baptism is part of the covenant obligation that one must go through in order to be saved. If this isn't works-salvation, I don't know what is. He argues that baptism is essential because there \\"are no secret believers, but only baptized believers\\" (p. 101). Did Shepherd forget that Joseph of Arimathea was a secret disciple or believer (John 19:38)? If covenant faithfulness is necessary for salvation what about those struggling believers like Lot, Samson, Solomon, Ananias and Sapphira, the Carnal Corinthians (1 Corinthians 3:1-3), and those Corinthians who died for abusing the Lord's Table (11:30)? Paul did not condone their behaviour but he knew that Christ's sacrifice covers all sins. To argue that we are not saved by works, but we won't be saved without them is double talk. The typical believer will assume a works-salvation mentality regardless of how you phrase the demands for works. Between antinomianism and legalism, Shepherd's view will make people slide down the hill of legalism. The Biblical way of looking at the relationship between salvation, covenant, and law is to subordinate covenant under Christ's sacrifice just as law is subordinate to the covenant. To put Christ's sacrifice, the covenant, and the law on an equal footing will undermine Christ's work on the Cross and lead believers into a Romanistic or Judaistic mentality. For those who think this book is such a great breakthrough in Reformed thought should think again. Shepherd's view sounds eerily similar to the Judaistic notion of covenant keeping by strict obedience. In fact, Shepherd does throw the Old Covenant into the New. The only positive thing about this book is that it will show the average believer where \\"ultra-covenantalism\\" will lead if left unchecked and gives readers a good understanding of unorthodox covenant theology.	2005-04-19
US	49830940	R27BZYLBY1P1HM	0830826599	124411943	The Land of Promise: Biblical, Theological and Contemporary Perspectives	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Challenging, Enlightening, and Convincing	Those of you who want a good understanding of the role modern Israel plays in God's redemptive-history should consult this book. It is a collection of essays written by non-dispensationalists arguing that the modern Israelite state is not part of God's redemptive program since the New Covenant inaugurated by Christ \\"universalizes\\" the land promises of the Old Testament. The majority of the essays written are good (especially essays written by T. Desmond Alexander, Deryck Sheriffs, Peter Walker, and Colin Chapman). However, some essays could have been written much more better. For instance, Stephen Sizer's essay is not much help in forging dialogue and unity between non-dispensationalists and dispensationalists. I found his essay to be more of an emotional \\"attack\\" rather than a carefully laid out critique of the system. This book may challenge many dispensationalists on their approaches to interpretation and prophecy. As someone who holds to a system between dispensationalism and non-dispensationalism, I found much to be in agreement with some of the authors (some of the authors stated that they believe physical Israel still has a role to play in God's redemptive program based on Romans 11). However, the only criticism I have of the views of the authors is that dispensational premillennialism is NOT the same as historic premillennialism as held by reputable scholars like George Ladd, Walter Kaiser, and Wayne Grudem. Also, a non-Israelite approach to the land does not necessarily rule out a future Millennial Kingdom. One must interpret Revelation 20 as it is without any twists and turns even if the Biblical text demonstrates that the land promises in the Old Testament has been \\"spiritualized\\" and universalized in Christ. I believe the better approach is to see the land promises spiritualized in the New Covenant, but will be realized in its fullest in the Millennial Kingdom.	2005-04-19
US	49830940	R8QHOLDXOG9EG	0882433199	913397916	Systematic Theology	Books	5	11	13	N	Y	A Scholarly and Fun Systematic Theology	This book is recommended to all Christians who seek to learn more about the essentials of conservative Pentecostal systematic theology. Contrary to many people, traditional Pentecostals are not unscholarly emotionalists who lack knowledge in theology. Actually, one will find this book very scholarly. The book is comprised of essays from various Pentecostal scholars on the traditional themes of systematic theology (starting from Prolegomena to the Last Things). The book is a very balanced presentation of conservative Pentecostalism. As a Calvinist and cessationist I thought I would throw the book away after reading the first few chapters. However, I found myself reading more and more and getting a good understanding of what Pentecostals believe. One will not find a \\"hokey\\" Word of Faith type theology in this book. In fact, the authors try to distance themselves from this movement; making a clear distinction between traditional Pentecostalism and man-glorifying unorthodox \\"health-wealth\\" Charismatism. Many will find this book useful for lay Bible studies and personal devotion. The book is not only scholarly, but also practical. The book is also easy to read and fun.	2005-04-19
US	49830940	RB69ZZ4XIQLLU	1928965113	553783808	New Covenant Theology	Books	5	23	25	N	Y	Excellent, makes you think about your own presuppositions	This book will make those who adhere to covenant theology or classical dispensationism re-examine their own theological systems. Wells and Zaspel do an excellent job challenging us to read the Scriptures in the light of proper exegesis without being so influenced by our creeds, historic attachments, and denominational affiliations. All the major issues pertinent to New Covenant Theology are examined. The book outlines New Covenant Theology very well and gives sound arguments for its plausibility. The book includes discussions on NCT in general, the Mosaic Law, the Sermon on the Mount, the relationship between the covenants, and hermeneutics. Some very strong essays include Zaspel's chapters on the varied interpretations of the Sermon on the Mount (Chapter 5) and the Sabbath (Chapter 13), and Wells' essays on creeds and how they effect our interpretation (Chapter 15) and the relationship between the covenants (Appendix 2). While still being within the circle of traditional Protestantism, these two authors stepped up one level by writing this book. Excellent book for the laity and seminarian on understanding this \\"new\\" system that is gaining popularity within evangelical Protestantism.	2005-04-19
US	49830940	RU6R2O1DYEELB	0310530903	982699383	Introduction to Biblical Hermeneutics, An	Books	4	43	52	N	N	Right Place to Start on Biblical Hermeneutics	For those wanting to know how one does proper hermeneutics this book is a good place to start. The authors (Walter Kaiser and Moises Silva) are conservative evangelical scholars and write from that perspective. Kaiser (who is a champion of multiple applications from a single text) and Silva (a traditional Reformed scholar) join together to help lay people and teachers on this important subject. Not only is this book good for seminarians who want to get a taste of hermeneutical methods, it also has a lot of practical applications for the laity who want to know how to read the Bible properly for personal devotion and life. Kaiser and Silva both avoid dry intellectualism, and write from a pastoral perspective too. Most of the chapters are good (especially Kaiser's), and most people will find this work very readable. However, I do have one concern over this book. It is a chapter written by Silva (Chapter 14: \\"The Case for Calvinistic Hermeneutics\\"). He contends that \\"proper exegesis should be informed by theological reflection. To put it in the most shocking way possible: my theological system should tell me how to exegete\\" (p. 261). True, Reformed theology's strength lies in its consistency, logic, coherence, and history. However, this can be its downful also (by the way, I am a Calvinist too). For instance, most in the Reformed tradition argue that Israel and the Church lie in continuity. Therefore, Israel as an ethnic body has no future in God's redemptive program. This leads them to reinterpret certain passages that speak of a national conversion of Israel near the Parousia (cf. Romans 11:26) to mean \\"spiritual Israel\\" (or the Church) or a \\"remnant\\" throughout history. Another example is Revelation 20. Since a literal Millennial Kingdom in the future is not compatible with Reformed/Covenant theology, they argue that we must spiritualize Revelation 20 to mean the present age (or interpret the \\"first resurrection\\" to mean a spiritual resurrection). The danger of allowing a Reformed \\"systematic theology\\" to control our exegesis of certain passages can lead to eisegesis and a meaning that is totally different from what the inspired writers meant to say. Here are the main methods of hermeneutics in Christianity: <br /> <br />1. Roman Catholic Hermeneutics: <br /> <br />Exegesis&lt;-----Tradition <br /> <br />2. Reformed Hermeneutics: <br /> <br />Exegesis&lt;-----Systematic Theology <br /> <br />3. Fundamentalism and Arminianism: <br /> <br />Exegesis Only <br /> <br />4. Critical Scholarship: <br /> <br />Exegesis&lt;-----History <br /> <br />5. Proper Biblical Hermeneutics: <br /> <br />Exegesis----->Systematic Theology <br /> <br />Proper hermeneutics is not imposed out of a certain systematic theology; it is developed from exegesis that leads to a systematic theology. Reformed theology fails in this respect. This book should be read by all pastors, seminarians, and lay people. It is an invaluable tool that needs to be in every Christian library.	2005-04-19
US	49830940	RNG7FM2TPUIUB	0802847552	969058167	Theology for the Community of God	Books	5	17	18	N	N	If you like easy-to-read theology books, then get this	This book has to be one of the most accessible evangelical theology books out there. Grenz's book is scholarly yet simple for the layperson. He writes from an evangelical Baptist perspective but builds his work around the concept of the community aspect of the Triune God. He argues that the Triune God's fellowship overflows into the church. All the sections are written from this community aspect of redemption. Grenz covers practically all matters you'll find in standard systematic theologies (from prolegomena to eschatology). The writing style is not like other more technical systematic theologies (e.g., Erickson, Grudem, Reymond, etc.) because it is written in a narrative fashion. You won't see Grenz being too detailed in his discussion of certain issues (hence, his book is only about 700 pages). This book is a must read for anyone wanting a good and easy introduction to the major topics of systematic theology.	2005-04-19
US	49830940	R2JP220HDAFAQM	0802849741	368165521	Paul and the New Perspective : Second Thoughts on the Origin of Paul's Gospel	Books	5	36	36	N	N	Good critique of the New Perspective, but difficult to read	This book is a good and scholarly critique of the New Perspective on Paul (e.g., Sanders, Raisanen, Dunn, and Wright). This book which is an offshoot of Kim's previous work \\"The Origin of Paul's Gospel\\" further extends and updates the debate regarding Second Temple Judaism, the Law, and Paul's view of justification. Kim's main thesis is that the Gospel preached by Paul in his letters was the same Gospel he received from the Lord Jesus Christ on the Damascus road--that salvation is to extend to the Gentiles and is received by grace/faith alone apart from the works of the Law. Kim heavily interacts with the views of James D. G. Dunn. To Dunn and other New Perspectivists Paul preached the message of salvation by grace/faith alone as a reaction against the Jewish exclusivists (in Antioch, Galatia, etc.) and that he formulated this doctrine (salvation by grace/faith alone) much after his Damascus road experience (in fact, the whole first chapter is an intense examination and critique of Dunn's view). In chapter two, Kim argues persuasively that Paul taught salvation by grace/faith alone in one of his earliest epistles--1 Thessalonians. This proves that Paul did NOT develop this doctrine years later in reaction to the Jewish exclusivists (or Judaizers). In chapter three, Kim shows that Paul used Isaiah 42 as a way of telling his readers that he is an Apostle commissioned by God (through the endowment of the Spirit) and was representing Christ during his ministry. In chapter four, Kim deals with the relationship between the Spirit and the Law. This chapter is probably the best in the book. According to Kim, Paul saw the Law as obsolete and powerless to bring about obedience among sinners (including the Jews). What was needed was a transformation of the heart and the indwelling of the Spirit. However, faith in Jesus Christ (along with the sealing of the Spirit) will bring about forgiveness of sin and the ability to fulfill the just requirements of the Law. Chapter five deals with Paul's Adam-Wisdom christology. Kim argues that he received this christology through the Damascus road experience. According to Kim, Paul saw Christ as the Last Adam and those who incorporate themselves to Christ through faith also become part of the Last Adam (hence, the Church also becomes the Last Adam). In chapter six, Kim analyzes 2 Corinthians 5:11-21 and the origin of the doctrine of reconciliation. He argues that Paul's doctrine of reconciliation originated in his Damascus road experience and that God reconciles sinners to Himself through the atoning death of Christ. In chapter seven, Kim deals with the \\"mystery\\" of Romans 11:25-26. He argues that this \\"mystery\\" is a mystery Paul received on the Damascus road and deals with God's future plan (\\"Heilsplan\\") to bring \\"all Israel\\" in His salvific blessings after the Gentiles have come in (this motivated Paul in part to evangelize the Gentiles). This observation by Kim destroys the typical \\"Dutch Interpretation\\" of Romans 11 where it sees no massive conversion of Jews before the Parousia (according to the \\"Dutch Interpretation\\", \\"all Israel\\" means the remnant of saved Jews during the whole Church dispensation). In chapter eight, Kim convincingly argues that Paul knew about the Jesus tradition and proves this by examining various Pauline passages (1 Corinthians 7:10-11; 9:14; 11:23-25; 1 Thessalonians 4:15-17; 5:1-7; Romans 8:15; 12:14-21; 13:7, 8-10; 14:14, etc.) and various Pauline themes (justification by faith, the kingdom of God, etc.). Paul was not ignorant of who Jesus was and what he did--in fact, he wanted to fully follow his Lord's example and discipline. Thus, there is no conflict or opposition between Jesus' theology and Paul's theology. This book is a good intermediate-advanced level discussion on the origin of Paul's Gospel and the New Perspective view. However, it is a difficult read and a reader should first get a good understanding of Biblical Greek before tackling this book. Overall, though, a good, scholarly, and convincing book.	2005-04-19
US	49830940	R1EKRUEMAX6RQG	0830816062	289983797	What About Those Who Have Never Heard?: Three Views on the Destiny of the Unevangelized (Spectrum Multiview Book Series Spectrum Multiview Book Serie)	Books	5	7	18	N	N	Restrictivism: The Only Option!	Contrary to Sanders and Fackre, Nash did an excellent job refuting both inclusivism and PME, and presented his case for restrictivism well. Though I don't agree totally with Nash's restrictivism (since I hold to unlimited atonement), he does a good job presenting a very persuasive case for the traditional evangelical understanding of the destinies of the unevangelized. Sanders' inclusivism leads to the heresy of works-salvation (unbelievers who positively respond to God's light and walk in His ways will be saved even without knowledge of Christ). Such heresy leads to another heresy: that Christians also must do good works to earn or maintain their salvation. His interpretation of Romans 2 on pp. 46-7 is horrible (he follows the interpretation of the \\"new perspective\\" that Paul was not opposing Jewish works-salvation but Jewish nationalism). ... Overall, a good book for those who want to be convinced of the truthfulness of restrictivism.	2005-04-19
US	49830940	R1I0V8PQEO8DNF	156563277X	699458204	Paul, the Law, and Justification	Books	5	12	16	N	N	Excellent Book from a Traditional Protestant Perspective	This book is a great place to start if one wants to know what traditional Protestants believe about the Law and Justification. In the first chapter, Kruse does an excellent job outlining the major views on Paul's view of the Law and Justification over the last Century. He states the views of scholars in the beginning of the Century (Montefoire, Moore, Schweitzer, Davies, Scheops, and Stendahl). He then goes onto explain the views of the \\"Developmentalist\\" school (Drane and Hubner). He also states the views of the \\"New Perspective\\" school (Sanders, Raisanen, and Dunn). Finally, he states the views from scholars of recent years (Gaston, Westerholm, Thielman, Martin, Tomson, Wright, and Schreiner). After the survey of the various views on the Law and Justification, Kruse gives us an indepth explanation and exegesis of Paul's view of the Law and Justification from (in the following order) Galatians, 1 Corinthians, 2 Corinthians, Romans, and other Pauline epistles. His thesis is that Paul consistently approached the Law as not abiding on NT believers for justification AND sanctification. The OT Law was given to increase the transgressions of the people and make them know that they are sinners. It was also to be used as a moral restraint until Christ's first coming. After Christ's sacrifice on the Cross, the Law was no longer needed as a rule of life for believers because the new life in the Spirit has replaced the old life under the Law. Kruse does an excellent job throughout the book proving this thesis. Most Lutherans, New Covenant Theologians, and Dispensationalists will welcome this book with open arms. Many in the Reformed camp my cringe at some of the arguments presented by Kruse, but will generally be in agreement with the thesis of the book. However, those who hold to Romanism, Arminianism, synergism, and other man-made views on salvation (Mormonism, Jehovah's Witness soteriology, Adventism, and legalism) will find this book unwelcome. This is to be expected because Kruse's main purpose of the book is to show that the Gospel preached by Paul (and the rest of the Biblical writers) was against any form of legalism and synergism. In fact, the cancer clinging to the Church today is not antinomianism (like many professing Christians think) but legalism and nomism. Any form of works-salvation is to be seen as unBiblical and even heretical. This type of \\"Gospel\\" cannot bring redemption but will make people fall away from God's grace (Gal. 5:1-4). This should be a stern warning against any so-called church that requires people to cooperate with God's grace to achieve salvation. Kruse has done a great service for the Christian Church through this book.use Kruse's main purpose of the book is to show that the Gospel preached by Paul (and the rest of the Biblical writers) was against any form of legalism and synergism. In fact, the cancer clinging to the Church today is not antinomianism (like many professing Christians think) but legalism and nomism. Any form of works-salvation is to be seen as unBiblical and even heretical. This type of \\"Gospel\\" cannot bring redemption but will make people fall away from God's grace (Gal. 5:1-4). This should be a stern warning against any so-called church that requires people to cooperate with God's grace to achieve salvation. Kruse has done a great service for the Christian Church through this book.	2005-04-19
US	49830940	R2WFLUGG91GHKD	0801022436	191946562	Progressive Dispensationalism	Books	4	27	30	N	N	Standard Progressive Dispensational Work	Anyone who is interested in what progressive dispensationalism is, should start reading this book. Very scholarly, but easy to read. Blaising and Bock do an excellent job describing the major tenents of progressive dispensationalism. While affirming traditional dispensational distinctives (e.g., future for ethnic Israel, grammatical-historical hermeneutics, etc.), the authors rightly see the need to get over the rigid literalism of classical-revised dispensationalism and to work with extra-Biblical materials for proper hermeneutics and exegesis. Blaising's chapter on the history of dispensationalism (Chapter 1) is an excellent read and Bock's two chapters on hermeneutics (Chapters 2 and 3) are priceless. Blaising does an excellent job in Chapters 5-8 in arguing for the \\"already/not yet\\" view of the OT prophesies and promises. He gives plenty of scriptural passages to argue his points and will not leave the reader guessing on how he comes to that conclusion. Progressive dispensationalism avoids the excesses of both classical-revised dispensationalism with its \\"not yet\\" emphasis and \\"replacement theology\\" with its \\"already\\" emphasis. Blaising rightly points out that both aspects of the Kingdom are taught in the Bible. The only problem I have with the authors is that they tend to equate the Church with the present Kingdom. I dangerous idea to say the least. Also, Blaising's final chapter (Chapter 9) might turn off many conservative evangelicals because it advocates a type of social gospel.	2005-04-19
US	49830940	RC8UYLANW6JJ5	0800626753	830908423	Biblical Theology of Old and New Testament Theological Reflection of the Christian Bible	Books	4	67	70	N	N	Okay...this is a valuable resource	As a conservative evangelical I was afraid to see what Childs had to say regarding the theological role of the Bible. However, after finishing this daunting book, I found many thought-provoking insights and interesting conclusions that may challenge Christians (especially those of the fundamentalist stripe) to re-think how they do biblical theology. Childs book is really divided into two main sections: The first section deals with theological methodology and the canonical shape of both testaments. The second section deals with the theological themes of the Bible. Many will find the first section quite dry and tedious (although his chapters [2 and 3] on models of biblical theology are quite interesting and informative). Here Childs deals with methodological and canonical issues that shaped the Christian bible. He gets into the details of the sources of the beliefs that shaped the religion of Israel and the early church. Depending on what your interests are you may find this section quite useful or useless. The second section is what many may find interesting and illuminating. He deals with major topics of biblical theology like God, covenant, law and gospel, humanity, etc. Many traditional and conservative readers may not like some of the conclusions Childs draws but one cannot ignore them as irrelevant to the church's theological mission. Childs' main sticking argument is the theological and canonical integrity of the OT in light of the revelation of Christ in the NT. How does the Christian understand the OT as a Christian text without doing damage to the textual and theological integrity of the OT? This is a common question Childs like to bring up in the book. Though many evangelicals will not like the way he handles the unity of the bible issue he does an admirable job trying to give the OT a voice of its own without relying on some overarching Christian theological construct (e.g., covenant theology, dispensationalism, salvation-history, etc.). This is a valuableresource for students who want to study more about biblical theology in a more moderate evangelical context.	2005-04-19
US	49830940	R2MNBIAILSMXU6	0802808573	794531379	Saved by Grace	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Great Book on Soteriology	This book is a very good outline of soteriology from the Reformed perspective. Anyone who wants to get a good dose of the doctrine of salvation from a traditional Reformed perspective should read this. Though it gets into technicalities and some Greek it is readable and organized. However, Hoekema's \\"Dutch Reformed\\" background lets some of his interpretations be influenced by that background. For example, his interpretation of Romans 7. For students wanting to understand what the Reformed camp teaches regarding salvation this book is for you.	2005-04-19
US	49830940	R25ZNZO1UY8PRE	1581342373	405684564	Whatever Happened to The Gospel of Grace?: Rediscovering the Doctrines that Shook the World	Books	5	6	8	N	N	A Good Book on the Doctrines of Grace	Anyone wanting a good introduction to the doctrines of grace from a Reformed and Calvinistic perspective must look here. It is reliable and easy to read. It is geared towards the laity so anyone can pick it up and read it. The section on the 5 solas of the Reformation is very well-written.	2005-04-19
US	49830940	R3G1UKMM21W5JR	0801070791	367661213	The Justification of God: An Exegetical and Theological Study of Romans 9:1-23	Books	5	13	17	N	N	You'll be a Calvinist after reading this book	You ever wonder why Calvinists are Calvinists? Why many evangelicals believe in double predestination? How God can still be righteous even though He has decreed to elect only a certain portion of mankind? Those who want an excellent treatment of one of the most difficult topics of Christian theology should look here. In this book, John Piper tackles Romans 9:1-23 to show why the Bible teaches Calvinism. Without letting dogmatic and philosophical presuppositions guide his exegesis, Piper deals with the text as it is by examining the passage in its original language (Koine Greek). The work is heavily exegetical, but surprisingly easy to read (though knowing some Greek will help for sure). Piper goes over the passage section by section (Romans 9:1-5, 6-13, 14-18, and 19-23). He starts off using Romans 9:1-13 as a launching pad which reaches its climax in 9:19-23. It is well structured and organized. Piper sets up his argument by examining the redemptive-historical place of physical Israel (chapter 2). If Israel is God's elect people, why are the majority under His wrath in the present time? What has happened to God's righteousness and faithfulness? Piper, in a very convincing manner, explains that God's promise and faithfulness (according to Paul) have not failed because only a faithful remnant within physical Israel were/are saved. Also, God will someday save corporate/physical Israel near the end of the age (cf. Romans 11:25-26). Thus, God is not unjust. However, Piper does an excellent job still explaining why God is still just and righteous when He only elects a certain number among mankind for His salvific benefits--to display His glory and honour His own name. Piper also deals with the idea of the \\"righteousness of God\\" in Romans 3 (chapters 7-8): God's righteousness being not bestowing some righteousness unto sinners (Luther), but to act for His own name's sake and to show His glory (many may agree with Luther, but Piper's view cannot be ignored). He also explains what Exodus 33:19 means within the context of Romans 9, and explains what the \\"righteousness of God\\" means in the Old Testament (chapter 6)--which is basically the same as the Pauline meaning in Romans 3. Throughout the book, Piper basically tries to refute the common non-Calvinistic way of interpreting Romans 9. Romans Catholics and Arminians often argue that Romans 9 deals with national and/or temporal matters. Piper, through convincing exegesis, argues that Paul was dealing with individual and eternal matters. This is a good book that will vindicate God and the way He deals with the world and humanity. Piper's book should be read in all seminaries (Calvinistic and non-Calvinistic alike) in advanced theology courses. However, a note of caution should be mentioned. When Piper first wrote this book (1983) he was still highly influenced by his former teacher Daniel Fuller. One may notice some spots where he holds to the typical Kasemannian/Stuhlmacherian view of justification (i.e., justification by faith and law-keeping). Overall, though, this is a good book that should be read by all who are interested in what the Bible teaches on predestination.	2005-04-19
US	49830940	R2CT1BHQLFXLQY	0802816479	177002937	Manual of Christian Doctrine	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Good Introduction to Reformed Theology	For those looking for an introductory textbook on Reformed theology this book is a good place to start. Berkhof goes over the major evangelical themes in systematic theology (Theology Proper, Anthropology, Christology, Pneumatology, Soteriology, Ecclesiology, and Eschatology). However, he also adds a Reformed slant to it by discussing issues like predestination and covenant. As someone who is outside of the Reformed tradition but holds to the basic tenents of Calvinism, there are more agreements than disagreements with the book. I would highly recommend this book to laypeople and Bible study teachers. It is essentially a condensation of Berkhof's Systematic Theology textbook (removing all the details and difficult terms). Overall, a good introductory book on Reformed theology for laypeople and students.	2005-04-19
US	49830940	R2B00YQ5HYSMK8	0198263880	941214837	New Testament Theology (Clarendon Paperbacks)	Books	4	6	14	N	N	Honestly deals with the text	Here is another NT theology book written from a moderate evangelical perspective. Caird follows in the tradition of Brevard Childs, James D. G. Dunn, and N. T. Wright. Though the author does try to draw out NT theological themes by going straight to the Bible, many strict conservative evangelicals will find many of Caird's arguments problematic. Caird develops his book by using a \\"conference method\\" where all the NT writers are at a table putting forth their respective views. This has the advantage of allowing the NT writers to speak with their own voices without modern dogmatic presuppositions. Caird also draws out the theology of the NT by using the theme of salvation as the \\"door hinge\\" to discuss other NT theological themes, dealing with the need of salvation, the experience of salvation, and the consummation of final salvation. Many will find this approach helpful, even though it may be limiting. Caird's discussion of the theology of Jesus (chapter 9) is very insightful. He discusses what he believes Jesus taught about the Kingdom, the Law, Israel and the nations, and himself. The only problem with this book is that Caird has fallen into the trap of allowing a socio-religious outlook to guide his exegesis (like Childs, Dunn, and Wright). This has the negative effect of blunting the evangelical message that Jesus Christ came down through a virgin birth, lived a perfect life, and died to remove the sins of the elect. Caird's approach is typical of those who try to \\"socialize\\" the Gospel (thus, many conservatives will not like some of Caird's conclusions). Overall though, it is a good book that contains lots of information on what the NT writers taught and preached.	2005-04-19
US	49830940	R1XMWV32UB41S8	0875526497	393175324	Justification And The New Perspectives On Paul: A Review And Response	Books	5	53	98	N	Y	Waters clears the air	Here is a very informative and thought-provoking book on the New Perspective on Paul (NPP) by an evangelical Presbyterian (PCA) biblical scholar. If there is one book to be had by Reformed Christians that makes a good comparison between the NPP and their own tradition this book is it. Though not as deep as Westerholm's book, it still does a good job outlining the issues and problems of the NPP.<br /><br />There are nine chapters in total. And the first seven are devoted to the views of the various New Perspective scholars (from Schweitzer to Wright) on the issue of Judaism, law, and justification. Waters outlines the various New Perspective views more easily and concisely than Westerholm does. Out of the various New Perspective scholars, Waters focuses most of his attention on Sanders, Dunn, and Wright (the NPP trinity).<br /><br />One will be impressed by the depth and amount of knowledge Waters possesses regarding this issue. The critiques he gives of the views of Sanders, Dunn, and Wright are quite impressive and penetrating. In fact, Waters does not hold back and tells it like it is. One of the things I liked about Waters' analysis of the NPP is that it is based on faulty foundations (liberal and modernist assumptions) and improper hermeneutics (using Second Temple sources as interpretive guides for Paul's letters). I also liked the way Waters highlights how NPP scholars failed to exegetically deal with the Pauline texts that deal with Christ's  death (Romans 5:19; 2 Corinthians 5:21; Philippians 3:9). Waters rightly concludes that Christ's atonement is fundamentally soteriological than ecclesiastical (i.e., dealing more with personal sin than covenantal openness).<br /><br />Most of all, I really liked Waters' critique of the NPP and his analysis of the NPP's relationship to Reformed Christianity. Though he only devotes two chapters (8 and 9) on this issue, I believe that he has pretty much decisively struck down the idea that the NPP is compatible with confessional Reformed (and Protestant) theology. The reader will come out of these chapters wondering how a Reformed pastor in his right mind can accept the conclusions of the NPP and still be considered Reformed (or even evangelical). I also liked his section on Norman Shepherd's view of justification and how it has more affinities with the NPP and Trent than the Reformed standards (pp. 204-211).<br /><br />This book should be read by all theologians, pastors, and officers in the various conservative Presbyterian and Reformed seminaries and denominations. This book will make it clear that the NPP and Reformed Christianity are incompatible. Those NPP leaning \\"Reformed\\" teachers and ministers who still insist on serving at Presbyterian and Reformed schools and churches should realize that they are doing their students and congregants a disservice with their deception. In fact, they preach a false gospel that Paul would condemn if he were alive today (Galatians 1:8-9). If they had enough integrity they would openly confess that their views are incompatible with Reformed and Protestant orthodoxy and quietly leave their respective schools and congregations. Unfortunately, it seems, many of these \\"Reformed\\" ministers out there seem to care more about creating some theocratic state on earth and not losing their livelihood. May God use this book to further His truth.confessional Reformed (and Protestant) theology. The reader will come out of these chapters wondering how a Reformed pastor in his right mind can accept the conclusions of the NPP and still be considered Reformed (or even evangelical). I also liked his section on Norman Shepherd's view of justification and how it has more affinities with the NPP and Trent than the Reformed standards (pp. 204-211).  <br /> <br />This book should be read by all theologians, pastors, and officers in the various conservative Presbyterian and Reformed seminaries and denominations. This book will make it clear that the NPP and Reformed Christianity are incompatible. Those NPP leaning \\"Reformed\\" teachers and ministers who still insist on serving at Presbyterian and Reformed schools and churches should realize that they are doing their students and congregants a disservice with their deception. In fact, they preach a false gospel that Paul would condemn if he were alive today (Galatians 1:8-9). If they had enough integrity they would openly confess that their views are incompatible with Reformed and Protestant orthodoxy and quietly leave their respective schools and congregations. Unfortunately, it seems, many of these \\"Reformed\\" ministers out there seem to care more about creating some theocratic state on earth and not losing their livelihood. May God use this book to further His truth.	2005-02-07
US	49830940	R1NG9JVT42AMQQ	0802848095	520316393	Perspectives Old and New on Paul: The "Lutheran" Paul and His Critics	Books	5	41	63	N	N	Paul was more "Lutheran" than you think	If there is ONE book that a student of Paul must have in order to understand the whole law vs. gospel controversy then this book should be it. Westerholm leaves no stone unturned and has magnificantly provided us with a resource that Christians will always refer to in the years to come.  <br /> <br />The book is basically divided into two main sections: 1) an overview of interpretations on Paul's view of the law and justification since Augustine; and 2) Westerholm's own assessment of Paul's statements regarding the law and justification.  <br /> <br />The first section will provide students of Paul with a rich resource for those who want summaries of leading Pauline scholars on the subject - whether from the \\"New Perspective\\" point of view (e.g., Sanders, Dunn, Wright, etc.) or from the more \\"traditionalist\\" perspective (e.g., Cranfield, Schreiner, Thielman, etc.). In the second section, Westerholm gives reasons why Martin Luther, John Calvin, etc. were not far off from the mark when they interpreted Paul. Essentially, Westerholm opts for the more \\"old reading\\" than the \\"new reading.\\" He does this by examining three major themes and what they mean in Paul's writings: 1) righteousness; 2) the law; and 3) justification.  <br /> <br />If one is expecting a exact duplication of Luther's commentaries on Romans and Galatians, then one will be slightly disappointed. Though Westerholm does side more with Luther on this issue, he is more balanced and points out that some arguments made by New Perspective scholars have validity. Still, he goes on to argue that Paul worked within a \\"problem to solution\\" paradigm (i.e., that Jews and Gentiles are sinners in need of God's grace in Christ Jesus) rather than an \\"exclusivism to inclusivism\\" paradigm (i.e., that Gentiles need not become Jews in order to be included in the Abrahamic promise) when he wrote about the negative aspects of the law. <br /> <br />Overall, this book is a valuable resource on Paul. Considering that that thereare many pastors out there who hypocritically and deceivingly call themselves evangelical, Protestant, and Reformed this book should also be used as a wake-up call to show how the New Perspective understanding of Paul is inconsistent with historic Protestant Christianity. Of course, these pastors can always call Rome their home, but they do not decide to, and thus, continue to poison the minds and souls of their listeners who are sitting in their pews. May God use this book to recover the true Gospel that has been lost in recent decades by those who wish to transform the evangelical church into another part of Rome. <br /> <br /> <br /> <br />	2005-01-29
US	49830940	R1WYEBPOIMO5S	0801021820	954581406	Christian Theology	Books	5	21	24	N	N	The Standard Evangelical Systematic Theology Textbook	If there is one evangelical systematic theology book to own for reference purposes, Erickson's book should be it. The positive thing about this book (in contrast to many others) is that this one covers viewpoints from various angles. Though Erickson does give his own opinions on certain matters (for instance, he is a mildly Calvinistic Baptist with premillennial leanings) he still gives a fair hearing to views that differ from his own. Not only that, Erickson is willingly to engage with non-evangelical viewpoints giving the reader the insides on what those outside of the conservative evangelical circle believe. If there is one textbook that evangelical seminaries should use for their systematic theology courses this book should be it. Though many will argue that Erickson is soft on certain theological points, they should realize that he is not out there to push one particular evangelical line (except, of course, those that are foundational to orthodox evangelical theology). Overall, the information contained in this book is very useful. It should be the standard theology textbook for any Christian library.	2005-01-26
US	49830940	R1CJJXTIC3QSKN	0631225285	459984789	Christian Theology: An Introduction 3rd Edition	Books	5	11	14	N	N	Good overview of standard theological themes	This book is one of the most handy theological surveys one will encounter in Christian academia. McGrath's book is good because it gives one a pretty comprehensive outline of major theological themes in a pretty straightforward manner. The book is not large but the information contained in it is pretty dense. The best thing about this book is that it is useful in various settings: seminary classrooms, lay theology seminars in churches, at home, and in the pastor's library. One will find this book fair and balanced because it does not really tow to a particular party line. If one is looking for a theology book that will try to be argumentative, then one will be disappointed. On the other hand, if one is looking for a book that just provides the information, this book is for you.	2005-01-26
US	49830940	R2ZUCPII4NG1SG	0802811434	81149839	Redemption Accomplished and Applied	Books	5	12	12	N	N	The Best Book on Redemption from the Reformed Perspective	Anyone desiring to know more about what Christ accomplished on the cross and how it is applied to the elect this book should be the first place to start. Though written from a conservative Reformed/Calvinistic perspective, those outside the Reformed/Calvinistic tradition will still benefit from this book significantly. The book is divided into two major parts: 1) Redemption Accomplished (what Christ did on the cross); and 2) Redemption Applied (how that applies to the elect). The first part is a very good articulation of how and why Christ's obedience and death are necessary. Some may find Murray depending a lot on the Anselmian model of the atonement, but he still does a convincing job arguing for this position. Unlike modern views of the atonement (i.e., Christ's death was a mere example), Murray is on target to argue that man's sin is such an offense to God that only a perfect substitutionary sacrifice will satisfy God's holy justice. The second part of the book is more interesting as it pertains to how all of this relates to believers. Murray pretty much lays out the standard Reformed ordo salutis framework (effectual calling....glorification) to discuss the benefits of the cross for believers. Especially good are his chapters on faith and repentance, justification, sanctification, and perseverance. Murray argues for the traditional Protestant view of justification and shows why justification is imputed and not imparted and why it must be received by faith alone (it is too bad that Murray did not live long enough to engage with the many \\"Protestant\\" deviations [i.e., the New Perspective, etc.] of this doctrine that are prevalant among Reformed circles today). Overall, this book is one of those \\"must haves\\" for any Christian library. I hope and pray that this book will still be in print for generations to come since it is one of the best books one will have on the doctrine of salvation.	2004-09-29
US	49830940	R3H08GBC0BQGUS	158743041X	23455363	Paul among the Postliberals	Books	4	18	18	N	N	The Apostle Paul from a Postliberal perspective	There will be times when conservative evangelicals (like myself) need to expose themselves to literature that go beyond the usual comfortable theological zone. Douglas Harink's book is a book that qualifies for that. It will either make you re-think Paul's theology or make you go into a fit for turning upside-down the traditional evangelical understanding of Paul. Harink's book is basically a combination of his own thoughts on Pauline themes and an overview of how well-known postliberal theologians have understood Paul. The book contains five long chapters: 1) Justification; 2) Apocalypse; 3) Politics; 4) Israel; and 5) Culture. All of these chapters are stimulating to read (some more than others). Here is an evaluation of all five chapters:<br /><br />Chapter One: Justification. Harink provides some provocative conclusions on regarding Paul's doctrine of justification. He overturns the traditional Protestant paradigm by calling into question things like the pessimistic anthropology of Lutheran and Reformed theology, the \\"faith IN Christ\\" interpretation (cf. Gal 2:16), the negative view of the law, and the highly forensic nature of justification (he believes that justification has more to do with \\"empowerment\\" than \\"acquittal\\" [p. 44]). He then goes over the doctrine as it is understood by Karl Barth, John Howard Yoder, and Stanley Hauerwas. This chapter was very interesting and may open the reader's eyes on how justification is understood by postliberal scholars.<br /><br />Chapter Two: Apocalypse. This chapter was the most enjoyable and thought-provoking in the book. Harink discusses Paul's understanding of the \\"apocalypse\\" as presented in Galatians and Hauerwas' writings. Harink goes onto show that Paul's point in Galatians was not to contrast faith and works, but to affirm the \\"singularity of the gospel\\" over against all other loyalties (religious or political). According to Hauerwas, Paul's main concern was to create a new eschatological people which marks themselves off from the unbelieving world.<br /><br />Chapter Three: Politics. This chapter deals with the political theology of Paul and Yoder. Harink tries to demonstrate - through Paul and Yoder - that the church is not only a religious body but also a political body that is supposed to act and live differently from the rest of the world. Harink's interpretation of Jesus' call for cross-bearing is very interesting. The cross-bearing did not deal with personal discipleship but for the community to mark themselves off from the opposing political authorities. Whether this reading is correct is debatable.<br /><br />Chapter Four: Israel. This chapter deals with the highly controversial issue of physical Israel in the place of redemptive history. Harink compares the works of two scholars on this issue: N. T. Wright (a supersessionist) and Yoder (a non-supercessionist). Harink does a good job showing the errors of Wright's supersessionism and its disturbing consequences. For instance, Harink makes a good point that if Wright's supersessionism is true, then the God of Israel and the Church is a capricious and non-trustworthy God (p. 165).<br /><br />Chapter Five: Culture. I found this chapter to be the least interesting and stimulating. I believe Harink here fails in trying to maintain the truthfulness of the gospel with cultural and religious toleration. The gospel, on the other hand, convicts people and tells them to turn to Christ alone for salvation. Paul would have no toleration for anything that waters-down the gospel for something that is more non-offensive (cf. Galatians 1:8-9).<br /><br />Overall, the book is interesting to read. I would recommend other conservative evangelicals (especially those within the Lutheran or Reformed camps) to study this book with an open mind. One may not agree with many of Harink's conclusions (like me) but one should still read this book to get a good understanding of what postliberals believe about Paul and his concerns.<br /> <br /> <br />	2004-08-20
US	49830940	R3V7VCNECK3P15	0830827811	990694395	Justification: What's at Stake in the Current Debates (Wheaton Theology Conference)	Books	4	23	25	N	N	Not Bad	Here is a book from various scholars that deals with the very important (and often, contentious) doctrine called justification. The contributors of this book come from various backgrounds - from Baptist to Roman Catholic. The book is divided into four sections: 1) Justification in Biblical Theology; 2) Justification and the Crisis of Protestantism; 3) Justification in Protestant Traditions; and 4) Justification and Ecumenical Endeavor. The quality of the essays are a mix bag. Some notable essays were written by Robert H. Gundry, D. A. Carson, Mark A. Seifrid, and A. N. S. Lane. Gundry's article dealt with the issue of whether the Bible advocates \\"imputed righteousness\\" (which he denies). Carson's essay was a response to Gundry's, and he argues that imputation is something that is clearly spoken of in Scripture. Seifrid's article is interesting since he deals with the doctrines of justification in Luther, Melanchthon, and Paul. Surprisingly, Seifrid argues that Luther held to a more dynamic view of justification and that modern Protestants really follow the highly forensic model of Melanchthon (Seifrid holds to the dynamic model and tries to put Luther on his side - which is a questionable reading of Luther). Lane's article on the Regensburg Colloquy (1541) was quite interesting. Lane argues that modern Protestants and Roman Catholics should learn from this Colloquy as a possibility for them to reach a consensus. (Whether Lane succeeds in convincing the reader is questionable since Regensburg did contain some ambiguous statements that would make most Protestants - especially Lutheran and Reformed Protestants - uncomfortable.) The other essays were either mediocre or unhelpful. Bruce L. McCormack gives the reader a pretty good overview of the doctrine in the history of the Western Church. Robert Kolb gives a good Lutheran understanding of justification. Paul D. Molnar's essay on justification in Karl Rahner and Karl Barth might be of interest to those who are doing research on those two notable theologians. And Kenneth J. Collins' essay on Wesley's view of justification is very eye-opening. He argues that Wesley only saw PAST sins removed during the time of justification (this was to safeguard against any form of antinomianism). Collins' essay shows that Wesley was definitely not in accord with Luther, Calvin, and the Reformation tradition on this matter. The essays by Philip G. Ziegler (\\"Justification and Justice: The Promising Problematique of Protestant Ethics in the Work of Paul L. Lehmann\\") and Geoffrey Wainwright (\\"The Ecclesial Scope of Justification\\") did not help much to add anything insightful into the whole discussion (especially the latter's). Overall, an interesting and informative book. The only complaint I have is that the book should have been indexed (as the reviewer below pointed out). With a book of this nature, a Scripture, subject, and name index could go a long way. Perhaps, there will be a future edition where the editors will include an index for the benefit of the readers.	2004-08-13
US	49830940	R3E7Z38FVXGLP5	0664220282	787830148	Calvin: Institutes of the Christian Religion (2 Volume Set)	Books	5	18	22	N	N	Calvin - The Genius of the Reformation	If one decides to study theology rigorously at an academic level, one should definitely read Calvin's &quot;Institutes&quot; to understand the various theological issues that were brought up during the Reformation period. Calvin's &quot;Institutes&quot; is one of the great classics that will never be written off as an old relic. Calvin's pastoral spirit comes out clearly in the pages of this book. In fact, Calvin wrote this not as some intellectual dogmatic text but as a pastoral theological treatise to encourage and comfort believers who were struggling with the faith - especially by those influenced by the unbiblical doctrines of the Medieval Church. Especially good are Calvin's treatment of God's providential control, justification by grace/faith alone, and unconditional election unto salvation. One may not agree with everything that Calvin says (I believe he got the Lord's Supper wrong) but one cannot ignore this work. For those who disagree with Calvin (and Calvinism), how about comparing Calvin's theology with Scripture? If one reads the Bible carefully and responsibly, it is clearly on the side of Calvin (rather than Rome or Arminius). Some passages people should check out are: Exodus 33:19; Proverbs 16:4; John 6:37; Romans 9:21; Ephesians 1:5; and 1 Peter 2:8. If salvation is based on our merits (fully or partially) then God's grace is really unnecessary. The Reformers were correct to proclaim sola gratia and solus Christus when they were combatting the deadly errors of the Medievalists. Salvation is either by God's grace alone or by our works-righteousness (the former being biblical; the latter being blasphemously heretical). One may not like the doctrine of unconditional election but that is what Scripture teaches and to do away with this great truth based on emotional discomforts is to show great irreverance to the Almighty God. God saves undeserving sinners because He is a gracious God. If God did not elect any sinner then ALL will be consigned to hell.The great thing about Calvinism is that it shows the sinner his or her place in God's redemptive design. It is to show sinners that they cannot even move one step closer to the gates of heaven by their own performance. Not only did Calvin teach this, but Scripture does too. If one wants to be Scriptural, one needs to accept Calvinism as the most biblical system that exists in Christian theology.  <br />	2004-07-31
US	49830940	R381R4GDLIJ4O	0875523749	757111758	Understanding Dispensationalists	Books	4	74	80	N	N	A Sane Look at Dispensationalism	If one wants a very scholarly and irenic book on the problems of dispensationalism, then this book is it. Poythress examines the characteristics of dispensationalism, the presuppositions of dispensationalism, the hermeneutics of dispensationalism, the social forces behind dispensationalism, and problems associated with dispensationalism. He also pursuasively argues why dispensationalism is biblically and inherently problematic as he examines the &quot;literalistic/flat&quot; hermeneutical method used by dispensationalists. He also offers alternative ways of reading biblical prophecy that make the biblical message of God's redemptive plan coherent. He also uses passages like 1 Corinthians 15:51-53 (chapter 7) and Hebrews 12:22-24 (chapter 12) as test cases when examining the biblical faithfulness of the dispensational system. His chapters on OT intrepretation (chapter 10) and typology (chapter 11) are very insightful and interesting. These two chapters are a must read if one wants to understand the problems associated with dispensationalism. The only problem I have with Poythress is his insistence that Jesus Christ is the &quot;fulfilled&quot; or &quot;ultimate remnant&quot; Israel (pp. 126-9). Though he makes an interesting case here, I did not find it pursuasive. The Bible makes it clear that the new covenant (cf. Jeremiah 31:31-33) will be brought in by Christ's death. Believers participate in the new covenant through faith in Christ. As a result, they become the true Israel (cf. Galatians 3:9). Another interesting point Poythress brings up is on the matter of conditional/unconditional promises of the Bible. Poythress argues that dispensationalists have always tenaciously held onto the gracious and unconditional nature of God's redemptive purpose, and that this affects their hermeneutics (p. 63). Here, Poythress touches a little bit on the whole &quot;lordship salvation controversy.&quot; Poythress is right to maintain that though the salvific promises of God areunconditional, that does not exclude the necessity of obedience and discipleship. God's promises are unconditional in one sense (Christ fulfills all the necessary requirements), but they are also conditional in another sense (these blessings are received by a faith that produces fruits). I would highly recommend this book for those wanting a short, scholarly, and thoughtful critique of dispensationalism. This book does not include the harsh polemics and irresponsible name-calling contained in other works critical of dispensationalism (i.e., Gerstner, Mathison, North, etc.). Poythress acknowledges that dispensationalists are also brothers and sisters in Christ who are striving to understand what the Bible teaches about God's dealings with humankind. This book will enlighten you and make you understand more clearly what dispensationalists believe. Thus, it is not a book you will regret picking up if you're interested in this subject.	2004-06-17
US	49830940	R2E5US30RS0OGS	0802881661	787830148	Institutes of the Christian Religion (Two Volumes in One)	Books	5	20	21	N	N	Calvin - The Genius of the Reformation	If one decides to study theology rigorously at an academic level, one should definitely read Calvin's &quot;Institutes&quot; to understand the various theological issues that were brought up during the Reformation period. Calvin's &quot;Institutes&quot; is one of the great classics that will never be written off as an old relic. Calvin's pastoral spirit comes out clearly in the pages of this book. In fact, Calvin wrote this not as some intellectual dogmatic text but as a pastoral theological treatise to encourage and comfort believers who were struggling with the faith - especially by those influenced by the unbiblical doctrines of the Medieval Church. Especially good are Calvin's treatment of God's providential control, justification by grace/faith alone, and unconditional election unto salvation. One may not agree with everything that Calvin says (I believe he got the Lord's Supper wrong) but one cannot ignore this work. For those who disagree with Calvin (and Calvinism), how about comparing Calvin's theology with Scripture? If one reads the Bible carefully and responsibly, it is clearly on the side of Calvin (rather than Rome or Arminius). Some passages people should check out are: Exodus 33:19; Proverbs 16:4; John 6:37; Romans 9:21; Ephesians 1:5; and 1 Peter 2:8. If salvation is based on our merits (fully or partially) then God's grace is really unnecessary. The Reformers were correct to proclaim sola gratia and solus Christus when they were combatting the deadly errors of the Medievalists. Salvation is either by God's grace alone or by our works-righteousness (the former being biblical; the latter being blasphemously heretical). One may not like the doctrine of unconditional election but that is what Scripture teaches and to do away with this great truth based on emotional discomforts is to show great irreverance to the Almighty God. God saves undeserving sinners because He is a gracious God. If God did not elect any sinner then ALL will be consigned to hell.The great thing about Calvinism is that it shows the sinner his or her place in God's redemptive design. It is to show sinners that they cannot even move one step closer to the gates of heaven by their own performance. Not only did Calvin teach this, but Scripture does too. If one wants to be Scriptural, one needs to accept Calvinism as the most biblical system that exists in Christian theology.	2004-05-15
US	49830940	R3NZ6A9HQM5P2A	0785250328	878725388	Understanding Christian Theology	Books	4	31	33	N	Y	Not too bad...	Here is a systematic theology that combines pastoral concern with theological scholarship. The book is a sum of contributions from several dispensational scholars. (Actually, the book is a combination of previous works put together.) Unlike many modern systematic theology books, this one is very practical and will be very useful for pastors or laypeople (not to mention that it is quite easy to read). The book covers all the major topics in systematic theology (from bibliology to eschatology). Though it is true that the dispensational system is slowly losing scriptural warrant and credibility, this book should not be passed by. Even Walvoord's section on eschatology is quite sane compared to the off-the-wall books on end times that are out there. Readers should realize that dispensational scholars are not dummies but really know their stuff. Unfortunately, many think that adhering to the dispensational system automatically puts one in the unsophisticated anti-intellectual category (however, many outstanding biblical scholars [e.g., Darrell Bock, Daniel Wallace, etc.] are dispensational). The only criticism, as pointed out below, is that the index could have been organized better. Instead of only major topics being referenced, the editors should have referenced sub-topics too. This book will be a nice addition to any Christian library. It may not be technical, but the pastoral spirit that comes out of every chapter makes this a very good reference for those who want to strengthen their faith and understand the basics of conservative evangelical Christianity.	2004-05-10
US	49830940	R2ZYPKOXGLL5HM	0801043743	872258493	Christ the Lord: The Reformation and Lordship Salvation (Cure Book)	Books	5	22	22	N	N	The True Reformation (Biblical) View	Though it has been a few years ago since I read this book, this book is one of the most biblical books I have read on the &quot;lordship controversy&quot; that erupted during the late '80s/early '90s. The book contains contributions from various authors from the Reformed and Lutheran traditions. Some of the more notable essays were written by Michael Horton, Rich Ritchie, and Kim Riddlebarger. The authors are critical of both the &quot;free grace&quot; position of Zane Hodges, Charles Ryrie, and Earl Radmacher and the &quot;lordship&quot; position of John MacArthur, Kenneth Gentry, and Ernest Reisinger. The authors feel that the &quot;free grace&quot; scholars put a radical disjunction between justification and sanctification, while the &quot;lordship&quot; scholars make no distinction between faith and doing works. Horton et al. find the perfect and biblical balance: those justified will produce works of righteousness (against Hodges/Ryrie/Radmacher), but having faith in Christ is not the same as obeying God's law (against MacArthur/Gentry/Reisinger). Many will complain that the authors of this book are capitulating to the free grace position in a Reformed attire. However, that is not the case. The authors in the book strongly believe that those united to Christ will be morally and spiritually renewed from within. Their view of faith is not &quot;intellectual assent alone&quot; but a genuine &quot;faith in Christ alone&quot; (to say that the authors are promoting the former rather than the latter is to be ignorant of Reformation history and theology). Unfortunately, this book has been overshadowed by other books from the other camps (especially MacArthur's). The only criticism I have is that the book is at times incoherent because of the authors' varied backgrounds (as pointed out by Jonathan Koh below). Hence, you get someone like Strimple sounding a bit too &quot;MacArthurian&quot; than what a lot of Reformed and Lutheran readers would feel comfortable with. Despite that one criticism, this book should be read by all who are interested in what true repentance and sanctification are. Unfortunately, this book is out of print. Perhaps someday Baker Books will revive this book in a new print edition (or better, an expanded edition). The importance of this subject makes this book absolutely necessary to be put out in the market again.ite that one criticism, this book should be read by all who are interested in what true repentance and sanctification are. Unfortunately, this book is out of print. Perhaps someday Baker Books will revive this book in a new print edition (or better, an expanded edition). The importance of this subject makes this book absolutely necessary to be put out in the market again.	2004-05-07
US	49830940	R28D3XP6CBMEB7	1581344473	272081434	Counted Righteous in Christ: Should We Abandon the Imputation of Christ's Righteousness?	Books	5	6	8	N	N	Defending the Reformation against errors	In this short book, Dr. John Piper exposes and critiques the serious errors that are being promulgated within evangelical Christianity regarding the doctrine of justification, the righteousness of Christ, the Adam-Christ paradigm, the law-gospel paradigm, and the role of good works in the Christian life. In short, Piper is writing to defend the traditional evangelical understanding of the Gospel (i.e., the one taught in Scripture). There are four chapters in this book. The first chapter is an intro on why the traditional Protestant view of justification is necessary from a familial, ecclesiological, and cultural context. I thought this chapter was quite useless to the purpose of the book and Piper should have just left it unwritten. The second chapter is a short summary of what is going on within evangelicalism on this issue. The third chapter is basically the &quot;meat&quot; of the book. It is quite long and dense (pp. 53-119). This is where Piper defends the historic position based on exegesis and theological argumentation. This is where he deals with the major &quot;justification by faith&quot; passages like Romans 5:12-19; 2 Corinthians 5:21; and Philippians 3:9. Piper does a good job here giving and defending the traditional evangelical interpretation of these passages (that Paul is talking about the imputation of Christ's righteousness and not our &quot;faith-righteousness&quot; or infusion of Christ's righteousness). Piper leaves no stone unturned and many scholars who disagree with the historic Reformational position must reckon with his arguments. (One will find Piper's treatment of the Adam-Christ headship concept very insightful.) It is also refreshing to see that Piper vindicates himself from his ultra-Reformed opponents on the relationship between justification and sanctification, faith and works, etc. Some Reformed people in the past have accused him of joining justification and sanctification or faith and works too closely together. However, Piper makes it clear in this book that justification must never be confused with sanctification (pp. 49-50, 69-80), and that faith is the ONLY instrument in being justified in Christ before God--though this faith leads to good works (p. 89 n. 36). He basically refutes the faith + works theology that is accepted by many professing evangelical scholars today. Hence, many Reformed people have heartily endorsed this book. The fourth chapter is basically a short conclusion of the book. Piper's book is very important for all evangelicals to read. With so much controversy going on these days regarding the nature of the Gospel (i.e., the New Perspective) this short book is a nice read. Not only is this book theologically important it is also (like his other works) pastorally conscious--it leads believers to look to Christ alone for salvation. As there are many so-called &quot;evangelical&quot; pastors who serve at evangelical churches, this book clears the air and shows what the true Gospel is about. There are many &quot;intruders&quot; in the church today who pose as faithful teachers yet proclaim things contrary to their denomination's theological position. (These churchmen, interestingly enough, adopt this new gospel because they think that they have found a new &quot;solution&quot; in fighting rampant antinomianism in the modern church or eliminating the ills of modern society. Apparently, biblical-theological reasons are not the main reasons.) These churchmen worry about losing their jobs and are afraid to admit that their position is contrary to what was taught by the Reformers. They use the same language to advocate a new idea and deceive many. The issue is not only theological, but has to do with the ministerial integrity of many churchmen. This short book is a must read for all students of Scripture. It may make many people uncomfortable, but that is what the Gospel does. Those used to a works-righteousness based salvation will either find this book liberating or frustrating (like Paul's opponent's who were frustrated with his law-free Gospel). A very important book on a very important subject that needs to be in every Christian home.	2004-05-03
US	49830940	R1QO1CXIBW4DVZ	0902548867	701765169	Great Exchange: Justification by Faith Alone (Facing the Issue)	Books	5	15	17	N	N	An Underrated Book on a Very Important Subject	This book is probably one of the most cogent books on the doctrine of justification written from a traditional Protestant perspective. Unfortunately, this book is not as well-known within evangelical circles compared to other books written on the same subject by faithful evangelicals (e.g., R. C. Sproul, James R. White, and John Piper). Eveson's book is neatly laid out in four main sections: 1) the biblical evidence of justification by faith alone; 2) the ecumenical debates surrounding this doctrine; 3) modern revisions on  justification (i.e., the New Perspective); and 4) the true meaning of justification and its relationship to other doctrines. Eveson's presentation of the biblical basis of justification by faith alone is very good and gives ample scriptural support for the traditional Protestant perspective. He also gives a very insightful and scathing critique of ecumenical approaches to this doctrine. Also, Eveson provides a very good overview of the New Perspective understanding of law and justification (particularly Wright's view) and devastatingly crushes the arguments presented by Wright and those who follow him. Finally, Eveson tells us why the right doctrine of justification is essential for practical Christian living and correctness of other doctrines (i.e., sin, man, Christ, etc.). This is absolutely one of the most insightful books on this very important doctrine. The section on N. T. Wright's view of the law and justification is a gem (chapters 9 and 10). He convincingly critiques the idea that Paul was combatting Jewish nationalism rather than explicating individual sinfulness in Galatians and Romans. He also destroys the idea that justification is relational rather than judicial. Considering that many professing evangelicals today have compromised on this doctrine for the sake of unity and combatting alleged antinomian tendencies in Evangelical/Reformational/Protestant circles, Eveson's book is a spring of fresh water in a desert. Eveson writes in an irenic and humble tone, even though he does not pull back punches when the truth must be defended. In today's theological climate where many unorthodox \\"evangelical\\" ministers and theologians cry like babies because they think they are being \\"slandered\\" because more faithful ministers of the Word tell it like it is against them, books like these need to be more in circulation to get the message across on what justification really is. It is books like these that will bring the church back to the place it once had in society. Use this book as an evangelistic tool for an unbelieving friend or use it to deliver a fellow believer who is caught in the deadly trap of legalism and bondage. Every Christian interested in this very important doctrine must have a copy of this book.	2004-03-11
US	49830940	R16U8NMMUT486N	0802837174	474986442	Introducing the New Testament: Its Literature and Theology	Books	3	17	37	N	N	Good, but too much influenced by the New Perspective	This is a good introduction to the books of the NT for seminary students and lay people. The set up is nice and organized. It also gives the reader a historical background of the NT (pp. 1-87). Like all other intros the book deals with the background, authorship, dating, and summaries of each book. The only problem I have with this book is the New Perspective tendencies. For instance, here is what the authors have to say about the doctrine of justification (the article by which the church stands or falls): <br />&quot;Justification&quot; in modern English has legal overtones, and justification is often understood as God as judge freeing human sinners from the punishment due their sin. But Paul took this term from the covenantal language of Israel, where it describes being in a right covenantal relationship with God. To be made righteous therefore means, for Paul, to leave a rebellious relationship in which one opposes what God wants and to enter into a positive relationship in which one seeks to follow God's will (p. 308).<br />The authors, by this statement, have kicked out the foundation by which the church stands. No longer is justification understood as a legal action, but as a familial relational thing. Thus, justification is not about having the perfect righteousness of Christ imputed to one's record, but about pursuing God's will (i.e., obeying His commandments). Though Achtemeier, Green, and Thompson would resist all attempts to be labelled Romanists, they have paved the way to Rome by this statement (of course it is no surprise that N. T. Wright recommends this book). Don't discard the whole book just because of that one anti-evangelical statement (like I said above there are good and useful things in the book), but one should be wary of the soteriological perspective that is being expounded here.	2003-12-09
US	49830940	RVY05QCELD1B	0801022533	74332094	A Handbook of Contemporary Theology: Tracing Trends and Discerning Directions in Today's Theological Landscape	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Every Christian Should Own This	This book is a must have. Smith traces Christian theological concerns from various landscapes. He examines conservative evangelical trends (i.e., Fundamentalism, Pentecostalism, Reconstructionism, etc.) to the more liberal/unorthodox kinds (i.e., Process theology, Liberation theology, Feminist theology, etc.). In each section Smith gives the reader the history of the movement, the prominant people involved in the movement, and the basic theological convictions of the movement (he even gives the pros and cons of each movement). This book is an essential resource. It will be a very valuable guide to Bible study teachers who are doing a series in various movements in Christianity and for seminary students who need to have a quick reference tool when they do a research assignment on contemporary theological trends.	2003-11-03
US	49830940	RZWCB2QWLU6P5	0849913179	877691380	A New Systematic Theology of the Christian Faith	Books	4	67	75	N	N	Highly Recommended	Anyone interested in learning about conservative Presbyterian &amp; Reformed (from now on P &amp; R) theology should consult this book. Coming from a Calvinistic Baptist background there are certainly a number of things that I would disagree with in the book. However, Reymond has done a very good job presenting P &amp; R theology in a clear but scholarly fashion. Though many will complain that the book is not balanced and treats some subjects superficially, Reymond's objective was to articulate what the P &amp; R tradition teaches rather than giving us a comprehensive systematic theology (try Erickson's instead). Some P &amp; R people will find that Reymond is too logical rather than biblical and that he relies on Gordon Clark too heavily for his view on revelation, God's nature, the atonement, election, and theodicy. For example, Reymond is unapologetically supralapsarian in his view of the decrees (pp. 488-502) and insists that whatever comes to pass is good because it is willed by God (see section on theodicy on pp. 376-8). Also, his view of Christ's eternality is also controversial departing from the standard Nicene view (a view which I disagree with Reymond). However, you have to give him good marks for trying to defend his particular position. Besides these questionable positions, Reymond does an excellent job defending a very high-view of the inspiration of Scripture (liberal &quot;Christians&quot; perhaps should read up on this section). He also does a good job defending the typical Calvinist understanding of fallen man (that fallen man is totally depraved and unable to save himself). Another aspect of this book I like is the way he presents the orthodox Reformed understanding of the covenants of the Bible. He follows the traditional Westminsterian scheme of a dual covenant of works/covenant of grace structure (covenant of works=meritorious salvation; covenant of grace=salvation by faith in Christ alone). Though I do not agree with this structure, Reymond has given us a good treatment of the topic from a historic Reformed perspective. His section on soteriology is very well done (following the traditional Reformed schema) and his section on ecclesiology is very informative (expousing the Presbyterian and paedobaptist perspective). His section on eschatology could have been better. He writes from an amillennial perspective, but gives lots of Scripture passages to defend his viewpoint (however, many will find his sections on the divergent views of eschatology very informative [pp. 981-6 and 1067-93]). The appendices are also useful--even giving us a brief treatment on the Calvinistic TULIP (pp. 1125-6). Finally, the bibliography section on other systematic theologies is very handy for theology students (pp. 1133-42). One final note before I close. Someone below was disappointed because Reymond didn't really interact with the so-called New Perspective on Paul. Reymond does this in his book on Paul's theology. This book was not a place for Reymond to interact heavily with this growing movement. However, the New Perspective is a new movement that is trying to influence (I should say infiltrate) the P &amp; R tradition. Reymond defends the orthodox Protestant view of justification (pp. 739-56); the New Perspective is trying to destroy the teachings of the past 500 years. Reymond does briefly discuss Daniel Fuller's and E. P. Sanders' views on pp. 431-3 and p. 1116 (footnote), respectively. Reymond does a convincing job telling the readers that the view of justification and law promoted by these two authors (faith+works = justification) is a departure from Reformed (and Protestant) orthodoxy. Reymond is not trying to put-down &quot;biblical theology&quot; here, but trying to defend the correct view of justification by faith alone (sola fide). Those who have a problem with Reymond on this issue are those people who are trying to legitimize their stay within the Protestant tradition while denying a major tenent of the tradition(perhaps they should find a different home to expouse their works-salvation gospel). Only one perspective is right--both cannot be. This book is a must read for all who are interested in P &amp; R theology.	2003-09-01
US	49830940	R1B0ATHK4WMRGR	0310286700	14879080	Systematic Theology: An Introduction to Biblical Doctrine	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Excellent evangelical systematic theology	This has to be one of the most useful systematic theology books out there in the market. Grudem's book is scholarly, reliable, and pastorally oriented. The book covers almost all subjects on systematic theology and follows the traditional pattern starting from prolegomena to eschatology (and everything in-between). The book is scholarly enough for students to use as a research reference, but easy enough to read for lay Bible studies. Grudem writes from a Reformed, Baptistic, and Charismatic perspective (an interesting mix), but integrates these various traditions well in his book. Unlike Erickson's systematic theology, Grudem focuses more on the issues within evangelicalism. His book is more geared towards evangelicals who want to know more about evangelical issues and pastoral concerns. It is not a comprehensive theology book that covers the whole spectrum of beliefs. Many people have problems with this approach because it becomes too narrow (if one wants a more broader book they should check out Erickson's instead). However, the goal of Grudem's book was not to explain and analyze everything out there in the theological world (again, the purpose of the book was to establish what views are biblical and how they relate to Christian living). Those who criticize this book because it is too narrow and fundamentalistic should realize that Christianity has set truths that cannot be compromised with. The Gospel is not about overturning regimes, indifferentiating males and females, and being \\"nice to people\\" by saying that truth really doesn't matter. The Gospel is about Christ's life, death, and resurrection bringing us redemption from sin. Another aspect of Grudem's work that is a great plus is his bibliography. He gives us a comprehensive list of other systematic theology books we can use as references. He also lists the page numbers at the end of every chapter of other systematic theology books on a respective topic. The only complaint I have is Grudem's view of the Spirit gifts. As a mild cessationist I was not convinced that he broke the arguments of cessationists. Besides that mild complaint, this book is a must have for believers who want to strengthen their Christian walk and know more about God's truths.irit gifts. As a mild cessationist I was not convinced that he broke the arguments of cessationists. Besides that mild complaint, this book is a must have for believers who want to strengthen their Christian walk and know more about God's truths.	2003-09-01
US	49830940	R3HT3LIO9PT61U	0802806805	123112859	A Theology of the New Testament	Books	5	13	13	N	N	The best evangelical NT theology book out there	Anyone wanting a good NT theology book should never pass up on Ladd's book. The book is nicely organized and arranged in a logical manner. The book covers practically every book and doctrinal issue in the NT. There are six major sections in the book in the following order: 1) The Synoptic Gospels; 2) The Fourth Gospel; 3) The Primitive Church; 4) Paul; 5) Hebrews and the General Epistles; and 6) The Apocalypse. The book is very scholarly but easy to read for the average seminarian. Ladd writes from an evangelical Baptist perspective but interacts with scholars outside that tradition. Many of his exegeses of certain key passages are convincing and he gives a fair hearing on interpretations that disagree with his. His Kingdom theology and \\"already/not yet\\" approach to redemptive-history colours some of his interpretations (esp. on eschatological matters). However, his arguments are cogent and persuasive. Especially valuable is his section on Paul's theology (pp. 395-614). His section on Paul can be a book in itself! Though this book was originally published in 1974, it is still far superior to the other evangelical NT theology books out there (e.g., Guthrie, Morris, Zuck/Bock). If you're a student of the Bible wanting to get a better knowledge of what the NT writers taught this book is the best place to start.	2003-08-27
US	49830940	R2VNC2LSSY5RLP	0830818545	491403027	Paul & the Law: A Contextual Approach	Books	4	17	18	N	N	An interesting look at Paul's view of the Mosaic Law	One of the perennial problems of Pauline studies for students and scholars alike is Paul's seemingly inconsistent statements on the Law. Thielman attempts to solve this inconsistency in Paul by combining traditional Protestant interpretations with recent interpretations of Paul. In chapter one, Thielman goes over the varied interpretations of Paul's view of the Law since Aquinas. Anyone wanting a good background on this debate should consult this chapter. In chapter two, Thielman argues that Paul approached his view of the Law through his first century Jewish background. He argues that the Jews (with references from intertestamental writings, Josephus, and the Gospels) during the Second Temple period believed that they were still receiving the covenant curses for disobedience--which is exile under Roman domination (N. T. Wright). This is a provocative thesis considering that most Protestant scholars believe that the Jews of that time did not hold to this view (the Jews thought they were \\"right\\" with God again). Chapters 3-10 deal with Paul's view of the Law in his epistles (1 and 2 Thessalonians [3], 1 and 2 Corinthians [4-5], Galatians [6], Philippians [7], Romans [8-9], and the later epistles [10]). Thielman argues that in all these epistles--though written with different situations to deal with--there are common themes that run underneath about the Law: 1) that the Mosaic Law was given to the Israelites out of God's grace and is gracious in character; 2) that the Mosaic Law is now obsolete and cannot confer salvation because ALL have transgressed its demands for PERFECT obedience; 3) that the ritualistic aspects of the Mosaic Law that separated Jews from Gentiles are abrogated in Christ; 4) and that the new covenant community is required to obey the moral aspects of the Mosaic Law to separate themselves from the pagan world (or as a means of sanctification). Thielman nicely wraps up his discussion with summarizing conclusions in chapter eleven.<br />However, some of Thielman's points may not sit well with advocates of the traditional Protestant view of the Law. Thielman follows too closely with the \\"letter-Spirit\\" approach to the Law (Daniel Fuller). He argues that the Pauline antithesis between Law and Gospel should not be understood as a fundamental antithesis between works and faith. Works are good and even required under the new covenant. In fact, according to Thielman, Paul's gospel has the same structure of promise-demand as the Mosaic covenant. One of the main differences between the two covenants is that in the new covenant the believer is enabled to obey the Law through the Spirit. Thus, the issue of Law vs. Gospel is merely a salvation-historical issue. Thielman argues this point based on the renewal-prophetic passages in Jeremiah and Ezekiel. Though it is true that the Law will be written in the hearts of believers as prophesied in Jeremiah 31:31-34, Thielman does not discuss in detail what the implications of this is. Does it mean that redeemed people will obey God's Law because they are justified (Luther, Calvin, the Puritans, etc.)? Or is this new obedience to the Law a requirement for final justification alongside Christ's righteousness (New Perspective)? Thielman should have spent some time (perhaps several pages) discussing how his approach to the Law coincides with justification by faith and Christ's righteousness imputed to believers. In fact, one gets the impression that Thielman removes the wall between the Law and Gospel, a wall that traditional Protestants have always kept in place. Overall, though, this book is worth reading. Many students of Paul's theology will find this book quite interesting and resourceful.e of Thielman's points may not sit well with advocates of the traditional Protestant view of the Law. Thielman follows too closely with the \\"letter-Spirit\\" approach to the Law (Daniel Fuller). He argues that the Pauline antithesis between Law and Gospel should not be understood as a fundamental antithesis between works and faith. Works are good and even required under the new covenant. In fact, according to Thielman, Paul's gospel has the same structure of promise-demand as the Mosaic covenant. One of the main differences between the two covenants is that in the new covenant the believer is enabled to obey the Law through the Spirit. Thus, the issue of Law vs. Gospel is merely a salvation-historical issue. Thielman argues this point based on the renewal-prophetic passages in Jeremiah and Ezekiel. Though it is true that the Law will be written in the hearts of believers as prophesied in Jeremiah 31:31-34, Thielman does not discuss in detail what the implications of this is. Does it mean that redeemed people will obey God's Law because they are justified (Luther, Calvin, the Puritans, etc.)? Or is this new obedience to the Law a requirement for final justification alongside Christ's righteousness (New Perspective)? Thielman should have spent some time (perhaps several pages) discussing how his approach to the Law coincides with justification by faith and Christ's righteousness imputed to believers. In fact, one gets the impression that Thielman removes the wall between the Law and Gospel, a wall that traditional Protestants have always kept in place. Overall, though, this book is worth reading. Many students of Paul's theology will find this book quite interesting and resourceful.	2003-07-29
US	49830940	R3GRKE9TZQS0TI	0310212715	730024576	Five Views on Law and Gospel	Books	4	63	70	N	N	Very Good Overview of Major Evangelical Views	Anyone interested in the various views on the Law and Gospel should definitely consult this book. Ever since the groundbreaking book by E. P. Sanders in the late 1970s the issue of the Law's role in the Christian life has exploded in biblical-theological circles. This book will give you five predominant evangelical views on the Law and Gospel. This review will give a concise evaluation of the five views.<br />The first essay is by William VanGemeren and he expouses the standard Reformed perspective. His approach is very similar to Vos' redemptive-historical approach, and thus, many traditional Reformed people (especially those who are seeped in the WCF) will find some points of disagreement. However, in essential agreement with standard Reformed theology, VanGemeren argues that no person can be justified by the Law and that the Law (the moral aspect) is a rule for the regenerate. This essay was the weakest by far, since VanGemeren argued mostly using logic than exegesis. <br />The second essay by Greg Bahnsen argues for the Reformed theonomic approach. I found Bahnsen using logic and \\"God's nature\\" a lot rather than exegesis to argue for his position. It is no surprise then that most Christians reject this view because it fails to take into account the redemptive-historical shift after the Cross. Also, those who do accept this position do so because of social-cultural-political distate of our secular world than biblical exegesis.<br />The third essay is by Walter Kaiser. Though his essay is the shortest of all (only 22 pp.) he argues most effectively for the continuous position than VanGemeren and Bahnsen. Kaiser argues that the moral aspect of the Law continues to have relevance for the new covenant Christian for sanctification. For Kaiser the Law was a gift given by God because of His grace (not a legalistic enactment). However, doing the Law does not confer salvation, but is an expression of faith by the redeemed.<br />The fourth essay is by Wayne Strickland. This is another weak essay and does not represent all dispensationalists (especially progressive dispensationalists). Strickland argues for a strict discontinuous view where the \\"law of Moses\\" is replaced with the \\"law of Christ\\" (his dispensational view comes out quite obviously in his essay). However, his argument that \\"telos\\" in Romans 10:4 means \\"termination\\" is quite well-argued and his exposition of Galatians 3:10-12 is very well presented too.<br />The fifth essay is by Douglas Moo and advocates a \\"modified Lutheran\\" view. I found this to be the most convincing and well-written essay. Moo argues that the distinction between Law and Gospel is a \\"salvation-historical\\" issue. The Mosaic Law is abrogated because no person can obey ALL its requirements to inherit eternal life. Thus, Christ is the only possible way sinners can receive justification and salvation. However, believers are still bound to live with the moral requirements of the new covenant. Moo's exegesis is quite persuasive. <br />Hopefully there will be an updated edition where a sixth position will be expoused: The \\"New Perspective\\" view (or the \\"Anti-Protestant\\" view). Perhaps someone who has gripes with the Reformation can contribute to that essay. Overall, though, this essay still does the job of presenting major evangelical views on the Law and Gospel accurately.	2003-07-22
US	49830940	R32NXSJ4709PXP	0801021944	452195741	The Law and Its Fulfillment: A Pauline Theology of Law	Books	4	14	22	N	N	A very good interpretation of Paul's view of the law - with some exceptions	If one wants a pretty good interpretation of Paul's view of the law from a generally Lutheran and evangelical perspective (though the author is a Calvinistic Baptist) this book is the one for you.<br /><br />There are eight chapters in the book and each of them are nicely organized. Schreiner structures his work well and (though scholarly) his work is not that difficult to read. The highlights of the book include his discussion of the term \\"Law\\" (Gk. nomos) and why the Law was given in the first place. Schreiner gives a good summary of the various meanings of the term \\"Law\\" and argues well that Paul uses the term primarily for the Mosaic law in its entirety. Regarding his discussion on why the Law was given in the first place, Schreiner puts forth the standard Protestant view that the Law was given \\"to increase sin, for the multiplication of transgressions would demonstrate that no one could be righteous through obeying the law. Salvation is only through Jesus Christ\\" (p. 91). He makes a good case for this position by analyzing passages like Romans 5:20; Galatians 3:19; 2 Corinthians 3; 1 Corinthians 15:56; and Romans 7. Contrary to some modern biblical scholars (e.g., E. P. Sanders, J. D. G. Dunn, N. T. Wright), the Law was never given as a means to obtaining eternal life. This position is the most viable if one looks at the Pauline theological landscape.<br /><br />Another interesting discussion is on the chapter regarding Jewish legalism (chap. 4). Though Schreiner does not label all first century Jews as legalistic, he does state that there were some legalistic Jews during this time - some of whom became the opponents of Paul and Jesus. This chapter blows away the more popular idea in modern scholarly circles that first century Judaism was a highly grace-oriented religion. I also enjoyed Schreiner's brief discussions on some \\"alternative views\\" on the Law (pp. 136-143). He does a good job showing that the contradictoary approach (Raisanen), developmental approach (Hubner and Drane), the legalistic approach (Cosgrove and Fuller), and the Reconstructionist approach (Bahnsen) are all flawed in their understanding of the Law. I especially agreed with Schreiner's comment that Reconstructionism fails \\"to see the salvation-historical shift from the Mosaic covenant to the new covenant\\" (p. 141). Reconstructionists should see their position as a system that has no biblical basis or support.<br /><br />Having said all that, however, there were some problems in the work (especially in chaps. 7 and 8). Though I generally agree with Schreiner's assertion that Christians fulfill the Law via the Holy Spirit (chap. 6) I disagree with his assertion that Paul believed that good works are \\"necessary to obtain an eschatological inheritance\\" (p. 203). Though I agree with Schreiner that good works are necessary (necessary as fruits of regeneration and faith), I disagree, however, that they are necessary in the sense that believers who do them will be REWARDED with salvation at the last judgment (p. 201). (Schreiner's exegesis of Romans 2:6-16 is hardly adequate considering that Paul was just reminding his readers of the awful state of humankind in Romans 1:1-3:20. Not only that, Schreiner's exegesis of Romans 2:6-16 directly contradicts Paul's statement in Romans 3:20: \\"Therefore no one will be declared righteous in his sight by observing the law; rather, through the law we become conscious of sin\\" [NIV].) Schreiner also tries to prove in chapter 8 that the other NT writers believed in final justification by works. Though I agree with Schreiner that genuine faith leads to doing of good works, I disagree with him that the NT writers believed that these good works were somehow necessary TO OBTAIN an entrance into the eschatological kingdom (he writes that the NT writers considered \\"obedience and good works essential for entrance into the kingdom\\" [p. 208]). I would argue that these warnings and exhortations were given to the readers to remind them of the dangers of false faith and conversion.<br /><br />Overall, I found this book very good and helpful. Though I disagree with the last two chapters of the book it is still a good treasure mine of information on Paul's view of the Law from a generally standard evangelical Protestant perspective.	2002-05-14
US	49830940	RPM5HHQVN3IEE	0061002828	239033838	The Hellbound Heart	Books	5	109	115	N	N	Excellent Book on Man's Depravity and the Human Heart	I first came across this book hesitant and unsure of what to expect. I had already seen the Hellraiser movie and I thought I might have been disappointed because I already knew the storyline. However, after reading  this book I realized that Clive Barker tells things better on ink and paper  than on a movie screen. Even with all the guts and gore in the book the  reason why the book captures me so much is the fact that Barker tries to  show us what is inside the hearts of people. The actual theme of the book  is what makes this book fascinating not the blood and suspense. This is a  true horror story if there ever was one. The Cenobites also add to the  intrigue and horror to the book. The Cenobites are demons who offer  limitless pleasure to all the senses only to realize afterwards that they  are only interested in pain and suffering. The introduction of the book  gets the mood going and afterwards it will want to make you want to read  more. The interaction between Frank and Julia also adds to the fascination  of the story. Frank's character you could say depicts the restless and  ceaseless anguish of mankind looking for something &quot;beyond&quot; what  this world offers. Frank shows us that human beings are beings that are  driven for the need for lust, pleasure, and sensory satisfaction. That  people will even go beyond moral imperatives to satisfy their carnal  passions and live life as if it was one sensory experience. Though this  view of man presented by Barker seems dismal and discouraging, he does  teach us the unfortunate condition of man on earth. Barker does a good job  showing us the horrors contained within man's heart and where it can lead  us if our desires are not contained.	2000-05-21
