US	49834367	R3QTP707Q4Z04I	0255365152	972970730	Employment Tribunals: Their Growth & the Case for Radical Reform	Books	4	0	0	N	N	It's not just about working for peanuts.	I first came upon employer/employee conflict resolution here in the US as a recently appointed  manager in New Jersey. An employee had voluntarily left in the face of discovery of some major rule violation and was disputing the denial of employment benefit. We both showed up at a dingy little office in Dover NJ and waited until the adjudicating officer was ready. This was a rather intimidating woman who exuded authority and made it clear that she was in charge and we must follow procedures. Each side presented their case, could question the other side's account and she would determine the outcome to be notified in the mail within a period of time. No lawyers, no bureaucratic paperwork, relatively quick decision. The facts were on my side with my concise and appropriate documentation. The pther party was denied.<br /><br />Contrast the situation in Britain, a rather lighter regulated workforce than the European but heavily regulated in comparison to America. Since the time of writing the book, lanour market regulation has increased although the European Commission President has stated that he wishes to reduce the volume of regulations generated by the European Union.<br /><br />Shackleton traces the creation, youth and developing adult story of employment tribunals a quasi-legal system established to deal with the disputes between employer and employee without trampling the well worn path to litigation so prevalent here in the United States. He clearly articulates a reform path by judiciously examining the pros and cons of the system as one would expect a prominent labour economist of his calibre to do. He looks at some alternatives and the Blair government's attempts to reform the system, simplify it and make it cheaper. He outlines a case for reform and rejects radical reform as being more difficult than the Thatcher union reforms of the 1980's.<br /><br />Shackleton makes the salient point that tribunals tend to be more concerned about employess and their grievances rather than the bigger picture of affecting the costs of labour to employers in the market place. It is a crucial point which is often overlooked. Whereas other costs are also added by the impact of bodies such as the Commission for Racial Equality, this impact is usually overlooked by the broader population.<br /><br />The regulation of the labour market is not, per se, something that any person would fundamentally object to. In the eyes of the dominant ideology people find fulfillment in their work. Yet one would think that these two things would be understood together and not as individual concerns. The plain fact is that too much regulation raises the costs of employers and reduces their competitiveness, leading to the loss of business and the accompanying jobs. Of course employers can respond with more labour saving capital investment which reduces the market for less skilled workers and increases marginally the demand for high skilled workers. In today's world, the post-industrialised west faces growing competition from Eastern European, Indian and Chinese economies who have the great advantage of comparatively lower paid, but relatively highly educated workforces to rely on.<br /><br />Shackleton's point is one that is being ignored at our peril, to a lesser extent in the UK than in other countries such as France. In the global economy, the competitive advantage is eroded by the businesses with the best response. Protection is increasingly less of an option than it appears. Impenetrable walls can disappear quicker than they were constructed.<br /><br />For whatever reason Shackleton argues that the case for radical reform would face tough resistance, society should look at what is politically impossible. The case for real radical reform and widespread labour market deregulation is unassailable. The consequences of continued protectionism will be wholescale loss of markets and jobs that cannot be easily won back.<br /><br />We all want better workplace. Weall want more holidays, more pay, better treatment or subsidised mortgages but we can only have those things if the businesses we work for can compete effectively in the global marketplace and consistently be successful. Even the mighty General Motors cannot live on past glories alone. All politicians should consider the arguments that Shackleton has marshalled here and act accordingly. Before it is too late.workplace. We all want more holidays, more pay, better treatment or subsidised mortgages but we can only have those things if the businesses we work for can compete effectively in the global marketplace and consistently be successful. Even the mighty General Motors cannot live on past glories alone. All politicians should consider the arguments that Shackleton has marshalled here and act accordingly. Before it is too late.	2005-10-13
US	49834367	R1IZE2CAS1478K	0446390240	676047607	Getting Unstuck: Breaking Through Your Barriers to Change	Books	4	13	17	N	N	You' d better change, before the sun goes down	Great Dan Fogelberg song. I have never been one of those people to go to self help books for help advice or support. I have been extremely fortunate throughout my life to meet large numbers of people and to make many friends some of whom are close enogh to tell me things I needed to know without fear or favour and without needing to endanger the relationship.<br /><br />Fortune, favours the brave is the expression but I am not sure how true that is. I came to this book when an aquaintance confided in me about some problems that they were experiencing in daily life. As time went on and the depth of the problems as well as the breadth of them were becoming increasingly apparent, I realised that my friend was repeating the same mantras over and over again about the problems on both sides like the inability to communicate and the responses of each person involved. Our discussions came to suggestions but them in the domestic situation the same old stories were being repeated and replicated almost on a daily basis.<br /><br />One day I came across this book whilst browsing through a book sale in the local library. A steal for 25c. As I read through it I firstly could not see why I might possibly need such a book but then began to recognise some of my own personal traits which I have accquired in recent years. I followed up with the exercises and persisted through to the end of the book. On reflection I saw that the main benefits I received were due to the recognition of certain behavioural routines I had sunk into which I carried on daily, not recognising that I was even in them. I resolved to change but did not find the book too helpful on that level and developed my own strategies.<br /><br />But Eureka! It occurred to me that my confidant might be able to put the book to a better use given that the behaviours that were being talked about were exhibited on both sides of the divide. I purchased another copy and presented it to the person and requested that they at least looked at a few chapters before futher discussing the familial circumstances. A few weeks went by and nothing more was said or alluded to until about six weeks or so after I had made my admonition. The book had indeed, been useful. At first my friend had discarded the notion and had began to read from religious texts but after a particularly upsetting experience, despair caused her to pick it up again and read through. To cut a long story short, the book  was read through once, the excercises were carried out during a second read and during a thirs read some of the strategies were brought into play. Although the book has not been shared with the other party the situation is now much improved and changes have been made.<br /><br />In England, we say that the proof of the pudding is in the eating and in this case it is a clear case of digestion leading to satisfaction. On that basis I am happy to recommend this book to anyone over forty although it is just as applicable to the younger age group. Everyone can gain something from this book and because of that it is most useful.least looked at a few chapters before futher discussing the familial circumstances. A few weeks went by and nothing more was said or alluded to until about six weeks or so after I had made my admonition. The book had indeed, been useful. At first my friend had discarded the notion and had began to read from religious texts but after a particularly upsetting experience, despair caused her to pick it up again and read through. To cut a long story short, the book  was read through once, the excercises were carried out during a second read and during a thirs read some of the strategies were brought into play. Although the book has not been shared with the other party the situation is now much improved and changes have been made. <br /> <br />In England, we say that the proof of the pudding is in the eating and in this case it is a clear case of digestion leading to satisfaction. On that basis I am happy to recommend this book to anyone over forty although it is just as applicable to the younger age group. Everyone can gain something from this book and because of that it is most useful.	2005-09-30
US	49834367	R1SUW1IDCVMRYV	0333366514	160220976	Mastering British Politics (Macmillan Master Series)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Just what the Doctor ordered!	I first came across this book several years ago in an earlier edition and found it, in conjunction with Pummett's British Government and Politics, to provide excellent coverage of the rudimentary aspects of the British political sytem.<br /><br />Now that I live in the United States, I had not expected to need such a text today but a project requirement for my high schooler caused me to change my mind. I discovered that Pummett has not bad a new edition for some considerable years and a subsequent call to Politico's provided me with a number of titles to follow up and purchase. Fortunately summer intervened and I had an opportunity once more to immerse myself in the machinations of the Westminster model and particularly in the reforms instituted by the first Blair government. Incidently, I would highly recommend Anthony Seldon's sterling work in this area and particularly for the excellent Blair.<br /><br />At the end of my studies it was clear to me that this is the ultimate textbook to read and study if one wishes to make head and tail of the apparently arcane system of British government. Try as I might to find gaps or inaccuracies I could not find any. I was struck by the clarity of the writing and the lucidity of the exposition. The use of diagrams etc is not overwhelming which to me is a failure of much of what passes for modern textbooks and the prose is written in a clear style which is very readable and understandable. The references are useful and the inclusion of website addresses is a great boon.<br /><br />My high schooler was a little deterred by all of the writing but adapted to it very quickly and the flood of questions slowed to a trickle. There is some difficulties in tyring to undestand such an alien system particularly when approaching the subject from a pre-college level especially on the vexed question of an unwritten constitution but this is a releatively minor disconjunction.<br /><br />For myself I confess to a great admiration for this text, an admiration which suggests two prompts for other readers of this review.<br /><br />Firstly, I hope that another volume is inpreparation following the recent British general Election and, secondly, I hope this book could stimulate the production of an American equivalent from such authoritative sources as these which could form the basis of a standardized sourse throughout the United States.<br /><br />An excellent book indeed!t, an admiration which suggests two prompts for other readers of this review. <br /> <br />Firstly, I hope that another volume is inpreparation following the recent British general Election and, secondly, I hope this book could stimulate the production of an American equivalent from such authoritative sources as these which could form the basis of a standardized sourse throughout the United States. <br /> <br />An excellent book indeed! <br /> <br />	2005-09-30
US	49834367	R1KBD4K7BX3CIX	025536508X	611542408	Liberating the Land: The Case for Private Land-Use Planning	Books	5	1	1	N	N	How to escape the tyranny of government controlled planning.	When I first began to read the foreward of this book by Harry w Richardson I warmed to it immediately as he briefly mentioned the overbearing rules which beset some homeowners here in the United States. As I have found in my ten years here some of the local rules can be overly oppressive and intrusive into our private lives in a way which makes a mockery of our basic constitutional rights.<br /><br />Recently there has been a furore in the media about the way that governmental organizations can compulsorily puchase your property through a device called eminent domain where the compensation can be considerably less than the market value of the property.<br /><br />Hailing, as I do, from England, it is easy to perceive the validity of Mark Pennington's erudite analysis. From my own personal experience I am sure that American readers would gain much insight from the book and find that his cogent arguments have great validity.<br /><br />Pennington begins by looking at the case for land use planning resting on the grounds of a physical monopoly with significant externality aspects such as environmental impact leaving it's control too important to be the purview of the market. He sketches out some of the development of the legal framework which governs planning in England and Wales and the theoretical underpinnings. His critique strikes at the very heart of the assumptions upon which this whole edifice is based, namely the notion of enlightened self-interest which he clearly shows to be false. Further, he exposes the inadequacy of any planning authority to be able to deal with just the informational requirements alone before he sets out the suggested alternative.<br /><br />During the remainder of the book, Mark Pennington draws upon the work of Hayek and Coase to develop his suggested alternative and demonstartes how a spontaneous-order market approach would work in practice. At this point I wish to interceed with an objection that I have to many of the ideas which emanate from some free market think tanks from which I exclude the Institute of Economic Affairs. Often the ivory tower, or increasingly the corporate office, academics conjure up these wonderful, very logical ideas which do not pass muster on a reality test. Surely it is not beyond the wit of man to establish some practical organisations which could try to test these hypotheses before they are pushed into the public arena and transferred into (im)practical policies such as the Health Savings Accounts.<br /><br />Pennington considers some of the objections to such a regime change and admirably overcomes them to show that even with drawbacks the proposed alternative would be superior to the present system.<br /><br />I found this book to be a straightforward read offering a very lucid text. The analysis and prescription contained therein are clear, concise and logical and deserve a very wide reading indeed. Liberating the Land appears almost forty years dince D.R. Denman's excellent Hobart Paper, Land in the Market, under the exacting editorial eye of Dr. Arthur Seldon, then the IEA Editorial Director. Dr. Pennington has done a sterling service in bringing this subject once again to the wider public view and should be commended in producing a document that every property owner both in the UK and the USA should read with very close attention.ich emanate from some free market think tanks from which I exclude the Institute of Economic Affairs. Often the ivory tower, or increasingly the corporate office, academics conjure up these wonderful, very logical ideas which do not pass muster on a reality test. Surely it is not beyond the wit of man to establish some practical organisations which could try to test these hypotheses before they are pushed into the public arena and transferred into (im)practical policies such as the Health Savings Accounts. <br /> <br />Pennington considers some of the objections to such a regime change and admirably overcomes them to show that even with drawbacks the proposed alternative would be superior to the present system. <br /> <br />I found this book to be a straightforward read offering a very lucid text. The analysis and prescription contained therein are clear, concise and logical and deserve a very wide reading indeed. Liberating the Land appears almost forty years dince D.R. Denman's excellent Hobart Paper, Land in the Market, under the exacting editorial eye of Dr. Arthur Seldon, then the IEA Editorial Director. Dr. Pennington has done a sterling service in bringing this subject once again to the wider public view and should be commended in producing a document that every property owner both in the UK and the USA should read with very close attention.	2005-09-23
US	49834367	R2OI9HYIO5AZXY	0831714786	382848950	Classic Album Covers of the 60s	Books	4	4	7	N	N	You Cannot Tell an album by it's cover	I came across this book as a remnant item at my local Borders book store and for ten bucks it was a bit of a steal. One of the worset things about the CD format is the diabolical way the artwork is shrunk down so you miss a lot of the details. i mean how can you explain to your kids about the cover art for UmmaGumma when you look at the CD inlay. You must be joking.<br /><br />I really want a big coffe table sized book of all of the posters that graced the Filmore but that is another story.<br /><br />So getting back to this, i am a glutton for this type of book about the times when i was growing up. I did not realise until reading this book that the author was once a partner in the company of Hipgnosis who produced some marvellous album covers in the sixties and seventies.<br /><br />The author looks at the album covers of the period as a development of the commercial aspects of the pop culture and as, always in a book of this nature, the selections reflect the standpoint and the predilictions of the author with whom most, if not all of us will disagree to some extent. As my own bias lies with the Grateful dead and all things bay area I applauded the inclusion of so many of the Dead covers but that notwithstanding, I was suprised that there was only one cover by the Jefferson Airplane. The orientation is primarily American although there is a balancing acknowledgement of the British scene very reminiscent of the later book, Hippie. I was particularly appreciative of the picture of the lost artwork  of the Harvey Mandel album, Christo Rendentor, included in this package. The book concludes, as did the sixties with the introversion, as it were, to the more roots based material of the space cowboys which originated in Dylan, through the Byrds into CSN and beyond but disappointed with the non-inclusion of American Beauty. Shame on you.<br /><br />We can all find good and bad with such a book but I think it is a wonderful diary of the time and will be a fascinating memento for many of us to show our grandchildren in future years if indeed albums as we currently know them are still around.<br /><br />I gave the book four stars because it does not include some of my personal favourite covers but would heartily recommend this to baby boomers and those who continue to hold the sixties in high regard. It was in hindsight, a remarkable decade, regardless of the nature of some of the events of the time and this is a compelling record of some of the popular culture of the period as epitomised by the music and it's pictorial representation.ing memento for many of us to show our grandchildren in future years if indeed albums as we currently know them are still around. <br /> <br />I gave the book four stars because it does not include some of my personal favourite covers but would heartily recommend this to baby boomers and those who continue to hold the sixties in high regard. It was in hindsight, a remarkable decade, regardless of the nature of some of the events of the time and this is a compelling record of some of the popular culture of the period as epitomised by the music and it's pictorial representation. <br /> <br />	2005-09-01
US	49834367	R3660MO500ZQR5	0743200152	357460900	The Business: A Novel	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Product Placement at it's best	As I worked my way through this book I found myself becoming frustrated and disenchanted. This author had been recommended to me by a friend who revels in Bank's science fiction efforts but who suggested this one in view of my prediliction about economics. I have always enjoyed a good read but tend to find myself in the company of rather esoteric texts rather than with novels. Others have indicated that there are flaws in this book concerning plot and have issues and to a certain extent I would concur. Until, that is, it dawned on mewhat the book is all about.<br /><br />Now perhaps I may be wrong. Perhaps I am attributing too much to the author's intent here, perhaps I am reading too much into what I have read I could be wrong but this is why I find this a clever little book.<br /><br />I enjoyed the whole concept of a sustained business empire existing through the millenia with locations in places one would never dream of. I enjoyed the imaginative way Banks describes some of the places like the house in Yorkshire and Switzerland. What I did not realise until I was someway into the book was the degree to which he melds together the products he mentions with the corporate lifestyles of the executive. My realisation came with the references the author makes to popular music. It is not the fact that Banks displays a wide appreciation of adult orientated rock but his use of the artists names and some song titles. Given that the publication date precedes I-Pod the fact that the hero can access at will a whole variety of tunes without lugging around a huge box of CDs seemed odd. Why would a high powered exec carry them? However, given the current exhaltation of celebrity and popular culture in Western post-industrialised societies it has meaning within that context. As I looked back over the earlier pages I had read it dawned on me that in the present world of television and TIVO producers resort to product placement on their shows so why not in novels?<br /><br />Eureka. It all started to make sense to me that business is pervasive throughout the whole book. Banks praises business in a sense and lays out a whole panorama about the benefits resulting from it but he does so while at the same time poking fun. Sure there are benefits to the elite few but underneath it all is the constant temptation to sharp practice. Opportunity has two sides both of which are highlighted here. The world of the rich is distinct from the world of the many. Banks holds out hope that good will vanquish bad and in the end the hero wins the prize in a display of rejection of some corporate values but does so in the context of becoming the spouse of a monarch of a poor country who is independently wealthy but who will be on a course to many more riches.<br /><br />Banks' novel is therefore much more subtle than your average whodunnit although at the end of the day a whodunnit it is. I enjoyed the book from a consumer's point of view but not from a detective story point of view but I must give the author credit. If it is done deliberately he has achieved a great success and written a subtle, humourus and satisfying clever little book. Did I mention how much I like diet coke with lemon?>Eureka. It all started to make sense to me that business is pervasive throughout the whole book. Banks praises business in a sense and lays out a whole panorama about the benefits resulting from it but he does so while at the same time poking fun. Sure there are benefits to the elite few but underneath it all is the constant temptation to sharp practice. Opportunity has two sides both of which are highlighted here. The world of the rich is distinct from the world of the many. Banks holds out hope that good will vanquish bad and in the end the hero wins the prize in a display of rejection of some corporate values but does so in the context of becoming the spouse of a monarch of a poor country who is independently wealthy but who will be on a course to many more riches. <br /> <br />Banks' novel is therefore much more subtle than your average whodunnit although at the end of the day a whodunnit it is. I enjoyed the book from a consumer's point of view but not from a detective story point of view but I must give the author credit. If it is done deliberately he has achieved a great success and written a subtle, humourus and satisfying clever little book. Did I mention how much I like diet coke with lemon?	2005-05-15
US	49834367	R1ORT5JR0U7FHB	0316009989	938565801	Searching for the Sound:  My Life with the Grateful Dead	Books	5	8	10	N	Y	Searching for a Secret	I believe that many readers of this book who are looking for the inside scoop on the Sex and Drugs and Rock'n'Roll of the Grateful Dead are going to be disappointed. All of those elements and more are addressed but there is none of the rabid sensationalism that has been a feature of some of the stories about this band.<br /><br />To be fair, I approached this memoir with less than my normal objectivity, I have been a fan for too long to take a dispassionate look. In fact I opened up the cover with a heady mixture of excitement and trepidation. Excitement at reading Phil's own words as a consumate insider and trepidation that it may be one of those ghastly ghosted tomes which would not serve  the memory of the band well. Having just completed the book I can honestly say that I found it very easy to read, there are sufficient errors in it which tends to suggest it was mainly of Phil's doing, and it leaves the reader with a much different sense of events than they may have gleaned from others of this ilk other than from Dennis McNally's authoritative account. I would continue to press Robert Hunter, the band's resident poet in a more familiar guise as a lyricist, to produce his own story but I live in the eternal hope that he will heed my call.<br /><br />This book is a delight for many reasons. Firstly I appreciate that the author does not duck the issues of the sex and drugs but acknowledges instead what we all know and that is that they are an integral part of the popular music scene and very few people who work in that area are non-participants. There is a caveat to my support and that is that there is not enough information out there about why musicians and others who work in the field resort to chemicals to begin with. Secondly, Phil Lesh does not drown the reader in too much material. His focus is on his life with the band and rather than deal with the minutae of events he takes a broader view accentuated with personal stories of experiences undergone or shared. This approach assists with establishing an understanding of how routine much of life on the road is even if you are part of an extended family network which provides considerable support as well as a no holds barred realism. Thirdly Lesh addresses with some candour some of the personal issues of the individual band members, not in much detail, but which nonetheless is somewhat refreshing in acknowledgement that there are real feelings of love and brotherhood in tandem with more ephemeral social interactions. Fourthly, and for me one of the more crucial aspects of this book is the dawning realisation that the guys in the band have different motives and influences  and behaviours than those which we as fans attribute to them. As Phil describes the growing gulf between the band members themselves during the eternal touring and their need to establish their own personal routines and spaces, he is also describing the chasm between the expectations of the musicians themselves, the road crew, those who crave audience with the band or somebody with the band and the more general audience. Those stresses and strains on the band are clearly enormous and it is a testament to Phil Lesh and his family that he clearly delineates a private space from the public in order to put his family first while the demands upon him as a band member become collossal. Fifthly and finally, for me this book is somewhat of a labour of love. here is a man who has experienced in a few short years more than most people will ever experience in a lifetime or two. He has some stories to tell and more besides but there is an overarching recognition that what has been and is the most important part of his life is the relationships he has established with certain people - his adopted family that is the Grateful Dead, his parents (his recollection of the passing of his father is one of the most poignant sections of the book, and his own family.<br /><br />I really like this book for several reasons. I am afan of the Grateful Dead and am eager to hear a different side of the same story (it's the same story the girl told me it's the only one I know). I am very interested in Phil Lesh's influences and his musical interests. Indeed many people do not know how instrumental Lesh has been in bringing little know British composers to wider audiences. Sorry about the pun but Lesh's typical modesty speaks volumes about Lesh the man. Searching for the Sound raises more questions about the Lesh the musician and who he listens to than answers. I like the insight into the main characters in a continually unfolding drama which does not sink into a pit of bad mouthing and name calling. Added to which is the author's implicit acknowledgement thta he has his own axe to grind but he has the intellectual honesty to admit it. It is also a great story about how a few ordinary guys could get together, literally do their own thing and end up as the biggest grossing touring bad in the world. What a long, strange trip indeed.<br /><br />This might not be the best written book in the world but it is a fine story worth telling and worth reading again and again. As Lesh recalls Bill Graham's fondness for introducing the band as being not just the best at what they do but the only ones who do what they do. Absolutely. I commend this book to everyone.I am a fan of the Grateful Dead and am eager to hear a different side of the same story (it's the same story the girl told me it's the only one I know). I am very interested in Phil Lesh's influences and his musical interests. Indeed many people do not know how instrumental Lesh has been in bringing little know British composers to wider audiences. Sorry about the pun but Lesh's typical modesty speaks volumes about Lesh the man. Searching for the Sound raises more questions about the Lesh the musician and who he listens to than answers. I like the insight into the main characters in a continually unfolding drama which does not sink into a pit of bad mouthing and name calling. Added to which is the author's implicit acknowledgement thta he has his own axe to grind but he has the intellectual honesty to admit it. It is also a great story about how a few ordinary guys could get together, literally do their own thing and end up as the biggest grossing touring bad in the world. What a long, strange trip indeed. <br /> <br />This might not be the best written book in the world but it is a fine story worth telling and worth reading again and again. As Lesh recalls Bill Graham's fondness for introducing the band as being not just the best at what they do but the only ones who do what they do. Absolutely. I commend this book to everyone.	2005-05-08
US	49834367	R18TZ8US1V4KRO	0865975507	478308482	Virtues of Capitalism, The (Collected Works of Arthur Seldon, The) (v. 1)	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Arthur Seldon's Magnum Opus...A Must Read	Arthur Seldon is little known in his home country, the United Kingdon or abroad except among classical liberals, libertarians and those who inhabit the strange world of think tanks. Yet this little known figure is one of the intellectual giants of the twentieth century and will one day be acknowledged as such.<br /><br />Liberty Fund is publishing a seven volume Collected Works of which is the first and which presents two works: Corrigible Capitalism, Incorrigible Socialism and Seldon's magnum opus, Capitalism. The first of the two was originally published by the London based free-market think tank, the Institute of Economic Affairs of which Seldon was the first Editorial Director.<br /><br />Corrigible Capitalism, Incorrigible Socialism is a reprint of a 1980 paper entitled 'A Credo for private Enterprise' which the author presented to the New Zealand Employer's Federation. This is a vigorous defence of the liberal market order in the face of a continued onslaught by the proponents of the socialist or mixed economy. Whilst Seldon's case is inspired by the Classical liberal case of the 19th Century, this paper can be seen as a further development from the Planning Debate from the 1920s and 30s. Seldon incorporates in his structure the post-war so-called Keynesian developments introduced the various socialist governments under the guise of Conservative or Labour and also takes a broader world perspective. Interestingly, Seldon makes the following comment about China:<br /><br />\\"But increasing coercion will be required to suppress the trend to initiative stimulated by knowledge of the West, and it is hardly likely to survive the century. Forty years later in China, where the individualist trading tradition is stronger and markets are a Chinese cultural inheritance, the regime is less self-concious (or guilt-ridden) about the use of 'capitalist' devices, and the return to official recognition of markets is easier. For this reason alone China is likely to emerge economically stronger than Russia in the coming decades\\"<br /><br />Yet who could tell in those early days of the Thatcher government who would heed Seldon and the liberals clarion call to the return to markets. While individual politicians may lay claim to the collapse of Communism, none of them have anywhere near the power of individuals to truck, barter and exchange. It is that power which brought about the demise. No more, no less.<br /><br />In Capitalism Seldon celebrates the economic organisation. Writing from the perspective of one who began life in poverty and enjoyed a modicum of success through his own efforts in the marketplace despite many great adversities Seldon highlights the improvements of mankind which came about not through some central plan or social organisation but through individuals recognising an opportunity to produce goods and services which met a need expressed by the demand in the market. The unintended consequences of human action indeed. Seldon holds that as the textbook understanding of the economy suggests there may be market failure, then correspondingly it should be recognised that there is an equivalence government failure. Whether that failure is inherent such as  destroying or altering the price signals which reflect consumer demand or which comes about from the involvement of politicians in the process who corrupt the market for their own ends (the economics of politics or public choice approach) Seldon recognises that there is no perfect system. Using an analytical approach much grounded in the Austrian School of Economics, Seldon sets out a case where private is at least as good as if not mostly better than public. He develops this approach by pointing out the natural tendency of markets to flexibility and therefore creating new structures such as property rights to overcome such failures whils the political processes set in stone many of the rules which become obsolete very quickly. To Seldon's credit it is his credibility whichcomes about through being no stranger to poverty which gives his case the authority it carries in contrast to the well meaning middle and upper classes who adopt top down approaches to resolving these issues rather than leaving it to the creativity and ingenuity of the people (the market) themselves.<br /><br />All in all this is an excellent addition to the Liberty Fund library. To top it all off there is an excellent scholarly and succint preface by Colin Robinson who succeeded Seldon as Editorial Director of the IEA and who did sterling work in that regard.<br /><br />This book is a must read for socialists and liberals (and conservatives) everywhere. There never has been such a heartfelt exposition of the case for Capitalism which has done so much to help so many throughout the world.ity which comes about through being no stranger to poverty which gives his case the authority it carries in contrast to the well meaning middle and upper classes who adopt top down approaches to resolving these issues rather than leaving it to the creativity and ingenuity of the people (the market) themselves. <br /> <br />All in all this is an excellent addition to the Liberty Fund library. To top it all off there is an excellent scholarly and succint preface by Colin Robinson who succeeded Seldon as Editorial Director of the IEA and who did sterling work in that regard. <br /> <br />This book is a must read for socialists and liberals (and conservatives) everywhere. There never has been such a heartfelt exposition of the case for Capitalism which has done so much to help so many throughout the world.	2005-04-21
US	49834367	R3FWY1B3FS6QBE	0333496523	165449672	John Maynard Keynes: Life, Ideas, Legacy (Keynesian Studies)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	ideas of economists...are more powerful...	The origins of this slim volume lie in a video that the author undertook for the Institute of Economic Affairs. As Blaug notes, the limitations of a one hour programme encouraged him to use his reference material to write this book which, I should say at the outset, should be on the shelves of anyone who claims to have an interest in Economics.<br /><br />John Maynard Keynes occupies a strange position in the pantheon of economic thought. Revered and detested by different groups, he is like a candidate for sainthood, adjudged to be possessed  of mythical and miraculous powers including second sight as well as being the originator of much which is claimed by his disciples as stemming from his greates work.<br /><br />To talk of Keynes in such a fashion is appropriate because he is revered by his followers as nuch as many Eastern deities, taken from this earth before his time, and with a legacy that is kept by the faithful as the Holy Grail.<br /><br />Blaug's central concerns lie in what is meant by Keynesianism (or what is purported to be the policy prescriptions deduced from the writings of the master), how the theories derived from Keynes took hold among almost the entire swathe of economists throughout the world in such a short space of time, and to determine if there is any future in Keynesian theory.<br /><br />The book is clearly divided in three just as the title describes: Life, Ideas and legacy and in the concise, clear and lucid way that the author is well known for. Indeed, reading through this prose is very reminiscent of the work of Arthur Seldon in it's judicious editing and clarity.<br /><br />The book is relatively short and by being so focussed enables the reader, general and specialist to get to the heart of the issue without getting bogged down in unnecessary detail or doctrinal disputes. Keynes' colourful life is referred to in a factual way without any prejudicial remarks and to me it's only drawback is the fact that there is no exposition of the relationship between Keynes and Hayek, While there was clear evidence of the rivalry which took place professionally between these two giant intellects of the 20th Century, there has been little written of the friendliness and very courteous relations which existed between them. Perhaps one day a study along those lines may be presented.<br /><br />Keynes' ideas and intellectual development are again clearly discussed in what some may feel as too short an exposition but given the author's clear intent to provide a window to further study and to cover only the core ideas it seems very appropriate. Blaug develops the ideas into their takeup by scholars and policy-makers around the world in the context of a timeframe to establish the speed at which they took hold.<br /><br />Finally, Blaug interviews some of the high priests of the new religion to establish basic building blocks, to elaborate clearly different fundamental aspects of the emerging Kuhnian scientifi revolution and to project forward into the future about the developments of Keynesian theory.<br /><br />For me it is the latter section which holds most of the intellectual interest of the book, offering some interesting lines of inquiry and opening up the world view of Keynesianism to see that it is a broad church indeed. One of the flattering features of this approach is that in more recent times it has been taken up and developed by Brian Snowdon and Howard Vane in a series of volumes about the development of macroeconomics wherein they identify recent developments in theory and associate them with interviews with the various authors.<br /><br />However, to the subject in hand, Blaug's exposition does not claim to be the final word on Keynes. Indeed his further reading lists refers the interested reader to the eceptional work of Professor Skidelsky among others who has done sterling work on Keyne. What it does provide is a working guide to this fascinating man and his works and the way in which his supporters and disciples broadened those lines of inquiry into the subject we know today. In writing this he provides a better context for Keynes than is normally provided and shows that while there was a lot that was new in his work, there was a lot that was a development from the ideas that he tried to refute.<br /><br />Overall I would strongly recommend that even now this book is essential reading for anyone with an interest in economics, politics or the development of ideas. Blaug is an excellent writer and he has very ably provided a highly readable very comprehensive introduction to what is now a very sophisticated and complex subject.in which his supporters and disciples broadened those lines of inquiry into the subject we know today. In writing this he provides a better context for Keynes than is normally provided and shows that while there was a lot that was new in his work, there was a lot that was a development from the ideas that he tried to refute. <br /> <br />Overall I would strongly recommend that even now this book is essential reading for anyone with an interest in economics, politics or the development of ideas. Blaug is an excellent writer and he has very ably provided a highly readable very comprehensive introduction to what is now a very sophisticated and complex subject.	2005-04-11
US	49834367	RVNNOWO4QSDJ6	0091589118	168810474	"Sunday Times" A.B.C. Diet and Body Plan: The Eight-week Course That Can Shape Your Life	Books	5	1	1	N	N	You Get Lighter Every Day and Every Time I See You	I first came across this book when it was being serialised in the Sunday Times.<br /><br />Wanting to get fitter and to lose some pounds in the process after having given up smoking not too long before I happily threw myself into the programme. Well, not exactly as exercise had not up until that point been one of my areas of expertise.<br /><br />Slowly, but surely, my weak physique began to overcome it's struggle against gravity while attempting to walk up hills. I recall urging the dog to \\"mush\\" while tackling a rather steep embankment one evening. After a few weeks I was jogging until eventually I found myself entered into the Great North Run and to my extreme delight the London Marathonand not only entering them but competing also.<br /><br />This excellent book is not just about exercise and cannot be considered a diet book if one mean's that one must count calories or grams of fat or whatever the food fascists would have us do these days. Instead it focusses on eating foods which will help our bodies and yet will allow for a certain level of normalcy in our gastronomic habits.<br /><br />Although the subtitle is an eight week course that can re-shaape your life, this book is merely an introduction to healthy living. I recall at breakfast one morning a discussion had ensued between a colleague and visiting speaker Professoe patrick Minford who argued very strongly that if one excerised then one had considerable choice in what one ate without putting on additional weight. Prof. Minford continues to look as well today as he did then, unsurprisingly when he follows his own advice.<br /><br />Whereas the market is flooded with faddish diets today such as Atkins or South Beach or whatever, the thing that makes this book different is that despite it's age the principles of food consumption contained within compare well with recent work on the glycemic index and have a great relevance to those who suffer from diabetes.<br /><br />I heartily recommend this book to all of those who want to change their lives on the grounds of health or let's face it vanity. Whatever the reason this is a great book which does not require you to starve yourself or go overboard eating fat-free or low carb or gorge on energy bars or drinks. It requires you to look at yourself and decide whether you want to effect change in your life and your future and do something about it.<br /><br />Unlike Guthy Renker poroducts you cannot return the product if does not deliver immediate results but you can try it for the eight weeks and see if it helps you to make a difference like it did to me.all of those who want to change their lives on the grounds of health or let's face it vanity. Whatever the reason this is a great book which does not require you to starve yourself or go overboard eating fat-free or low carb or gorge on energy bars or drinks. It requires you to look at yourself and decide whether you want to effect change in your life and your future and do something about it. <br /> <br />Unlike Guthy Renker poroducts you cannot return the product if does not deliver immediate results but you can try it for the eight weeks and see if it helps you to make a difference like it did to me. <br /> <br />	2005-03-09
US	49834367	R2BVWQXA4NB5U7	0865975434	670618603	The State is Rolling Back Vol 2 (Collected Works of Arthur Seldon, The) (v. 2)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	In the land of the blind the one eyed man is king	Before I begin my review I want to acknowledge two debts. Firstly to the British government which introduced the idea of a system which would allow the children of lower income households to attend a Grammar School by virtue of their success at an examination at 11 years of age. Had that not been available I very much doubt that I would have ever had the access to education that I have enjoyed throughout my entire life. Secondly, I owe an intellectual debt to the Author of this book, Arthur Seldon, without who's fine editorial skills and prescient writings which have inspired me to see the world in my own way and to argue and campaign for change.<br /><br />This book is a collection of shorter articles and essays written over an extensive period of years some of which predate the British Welfare State in the form that is known today and yet are remarkably accurate in their predictions of it's failings. Arthur Seldon writes not only from the intellect but also from the heart. His childhood experiences are a powerful influence on his thought and the power of the experiences come through loud and clear in his writings.<br /><br />Unlike many of Britain's social reformers, Seldon was not born into a priviledged family. His first hand knowledge of loss and poverty contrasts starkly with those, then and now, who advocate economic and social reforms from a vantage point of economic and social security with little understanding of how the other half live other than the knowledge they might gain from surveys and other research tools. Seldon writes from the point of view of the common man who wants to make his own way in the world whether by working for someone else or from working for oneself. He understands the dignity and self-respect one gets from hyonest work and thrift and even from acting in concert with others mainly through the marketplace but also from a combination with others. It is this major distinction from socialists in all parties who see the solution to social and economic problems resulting from legalised theft, sorry taxation, and redistribution through the state whilst at the same time siphoning off a goodly proportion for themselves which gives Seldon the edge over those others.<br /><br />In many ways this is a remarkable collection of very unpopular ideas which Arthur Seldon generated throughout his long and distinguished career. Unpopular with the trendy ideas of the middle and upper classes and it was mainly they who occupied the universities and government offices until well into the 1960s but which certainly struck a chord with the working classes throughout that time. These unpopular ideas have, in many cases, come to pass as he predicted, yet there is more still to be done.<br /><br />Arthur Seldon has stood alone or with a small coterie of close friends and allies for a long number of years. He has challenged the establishment on behalf of the little man and his ingrained belief in the nature of man to be free and the desire that all men have to be their own provider and not be beholden to anyone. He has fought a mini-crusade to set people free when all around him cast their belief in the omnipotent state to solve all of society's problems. What he has said has mostly come to pass and in this volume of shorter articles and essays there is much that we can all learn to help the impreovemt of mankindsocial and economic problems resulting from legalised theft, sorry taxation, and redistribution through the state whilst at the same time siphoning off a goodly proportion for themselves which gives Seldon the edge over those others. <br /> <br />In many ways this is a remarkable collection of very unpopular ideas which Arthur Seldon generated throughout his long and distinguished career. Unpopular with the trendy ideas of the middle and upper classes and it was mainly they who occupied the universities and government offices until well into the 1960s but which certainly struck a chord with the working classes throughout that time. These unpopular ideas have, in many cases, come to pass as he predicted, yet there is more still to be done. <br /> <br />Arthur Seldon has stood alone or with a small coterie of close friends and allies for a long number of years. He has challenged the establishment on behalf of the little man and his ingrained belief in the nature of man to be free and the desire that all men have to be their own provider and not be beholden to anyone. He has fought a mini-crusade to set people free when all around him cast their belief in the omnipotent state to solve all of society's problems. What he has said has mostly come to pass and in this volume of shorter articles and essays there is much that we can all learn to help the impreovemt of mankind	2004-12-22
US	49834367	R38NPTVG0WHPEI	0517571145	889048436	The Fearful Void	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Sea with No Trees.	I first came across this book after being entranced by the burning desert of the film Lawrence of Arabia. Many years later while at a study group in Claremont-McKenna College, I was hugely disappointed by the nearby desert in Southern California and was only mildly struck while visiting Las Vegas. But that is another story.<br /><br />My younger son brought my attention back to this book while researching a project for social studies. Taking it back off my library shelves after so many years, I found myself becoming completely transfixed as I reacquainted myself with his travels across the Sahara.<br /><br />This certainly is a compelling book not only to a young reader but also to someone treading nervously into middle age. You can almost feel the wind in your face, the sand in your mouth and the smell of the camel as you share the author's arduous journey across most of a continent.<br /><br />Even now I find the text easy to read and the empathy one develops with the author is a marvellous testament to his powers of communication. At the end of one evening when I finally laid the book to rest, I applauded Moorhouse for his guts and tenacity and his sheer vision required to begin a project like this.<br /><br />I would highly recommend this book to everyone as one book they should certainly consider reading at least once in their life.	2004-12-02
US	49834367	R20FUQ94OZ1LHJ	0714647438	839135622	Ideas and Think Tanks in Contemporary Britain: Volume 1	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Madmen in authority...	In the mid 1970s in Britain, the words think tank were hardly on everyone's lips. The country was engulfed by crisis, mainly economic but which had extended into many other areas of everyday life. By the end of the decade, I along with many others, bore witness to rubbish piled up in city streets with vermin visible by daylight, the dead not being buried and corpes kept in refrigerated warehouses because the mortuaries were full. The Prime Minister, James Callahan, returned from an international meeting in much warmer and friendlier climes, proclaimed 'Ctisis, what crisis?' and in the ensuing General Election Margaret Thatcher was returned as the next Prime Minister.<br /><br />The United States has had a much longer relationship with so called Think Tanks but in the UK, the few that existed were an integral part of the Establishment. One relative newcomer, the free market Institute of Economic Affairs, established in 1855 by Anthony Fisher, through a stream of publications aimed at the press and opinion formers as well as students as well as luches with authors had built up a head of steam which was gradually influencing politicians and others.<br /><br />I believe that but for the work of that institute, then this book and others like it would never have been written. In a rather perverse way one of the editors of these volumes, Anthony Seldon, son of the IEA Editorial Director, Arthur Seldon, seeks to minimise the role of the IEA and other similar bodies in bringing about fundamental changes in the British economy and polity since 1979. The thesis is supported in the main by a stream of evidence mainly from other socio-economic actors who participated in government, academe or business during the period under investigation. By using a historical perspective the impact and influence of the market institutes and other think tanks is set within a context of the impact of ideas generally upon the body politic and contrasted with previous arrangements. The roles of the think tanks are acknowledged but the editors and interviewees contend that the influence was not as great as was claimed.<br /><br />While the thrust of this work as set out supports the thesis, I find a number of problems with their approach. In the selection of actors to be interviewed, perhaps a greater number of participants could have added to the weight of the evidence. Also there is a focus on academic analysis of the impact upon the political parties or the government of the day where perhaps some credence could be given to some of the more informal channels by which ideas were introduced. Just two minor examples here concerning the Conservative Party. Firstly within the general party organisation, the 1970s saw a greater politicisation throughout the party whether that be in the youth wings, the Young Conservatives and the Federation of Conservative Students or the Conservative Political Centre where ideas were often fiercely debated. Secondly, following Ted Heath's U-turn, groups such as the Selson Group sought to bring in new ideas to impact on opinion formers within the party through which the party leadership could be engaged.<br /><br />Another issue of contention lies within the creation of the think tanks of the left such as the Institute of Public Policy Research and Demos, both of which were established following a public challenge thrown down by Arthur Seldon in order to bring about more competition for ideas in the public domain. Finally, it may be too early to assess the real impact of the think tanks after only 25-30 years because of the slow nature of the fundamental change which has taken place. It is easy to forget how many people were in the thrall of collectivist ideas even into the 1980s and it is easy not to see those numbers today.<br /><br />The books are an interesting contribution to a historical debate which has yet to mature. The case has some merit and that is a testament to the authors and the evidence that they have assembled.I feel that the jury is still out but when it returns it's verdict, the outcome may surprise many including the originators of these volumes.assembled. I feel that the jury is still out but when it returns it's verdict, the outcome may surprise many including the originators of these volumes.	2004-09-25
US	49834367	R1FJYB3NWAP8DY	1903386039	571724284	Families Without Fatherhood (Civil Society)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Father, you left me but I never left you, I needed you...	This is an excellent piece of work by Dennis and Erdos continuing their earlier work in a new and expanded edition with a new afterward by Peter Saunders.<br /><br />The authors clain to have established the reason for societal breakdown in terms of the postwar breakdown of the family, which coupled with the growing number of households established by same sex couples. They combine results of sociological surveys and studies with anecdotal evidence to paint an alarming picture odf societal breakdown directly attributable to the lack of a permanent father authority figure in the home whilst the welfare state treats individuals as more worthy of receiving welfare benefits than a traditional heterosexual married couple.<br /><br />Further the authors go on to link the breakdown of the family with the rising crime numbers and suggest that public policy be geared up to restoring the traditional family to the centre of the public policy agenda. They draw on evidence from other countries to give their case a more general flavour and to provide examples of policy actions.<br /><br />This is certainly an articulate and persuasive work which it is claimed gave new impetus to the UK Blair government to alter it's policies on welfare provision in this area whilst refraining from taking the whole step and reasserting the family as the centrality of their social policy agenda. They are wise in not doing so. To paraphrase Popper, a theory that explains everything explains nothing and in many ways their case seems too good to be true. The finer points of dispute I will leave to others but I wish to focus on one major point which the authors refer to specifically with which i am at odds.<br /><br />Throughout my years as a student of social policy I was always encouraged to be sceptical if not agnostic about cause and correlation in social science. My nose twitched rapidly when the correlation of rising crime and family breakdown from the 1950's was introduced. To me that period represents the implementation of the Keynsian consensus and the development of the age of affluence and the emergence of the consumer age in the aftermath of widespread economic destruction. I would personally place the time of family breakdown in the early 1960's when the introduction of the female contraceptive pill broke the link between sex and reproduction and enabled more married women to have their own careers, determine when they were ready and able to have children and allowed them the capacity to become more financially independent. However, I digress.<br /><br />The authors cite statistics indicating the rise in crime numbers and contrast these with statistics of crime when unemployment was at historic highs. The comparison is certainly a valid one, unemployment is not the main cause of crime but it is and can be a contributory factor. But then so can the government. For instance, if government makes some drugs legal say nicotine, but not others say heroin, it alters the way people behave. Suppliers can maximise profits through trafficking and have an incentive to get more people addicred thus boosting the demand for a drug already in short supply through legislative action. To finance their habit, addicts resort to petty theft, burglary, prostitution, fraud and others thus boosting the crime statistics. They are caught, fned and/or imprisoned and then return to their old ways if not helped. QED. Drug users are not confined to the lower income groups and are often to be found in the professional and managerial higher income groups where fathers are often to be found.<br /><br />So I am afraid that the analysis just will not do. The problem of socital brakdown is a much more complex issue which to me reflects a transition to an age of more family and lifestyle choices than we are used to where individuals, who after all should be the best people to choose their destiny, amke choices which the paternalistic conservatives of right and left may not like.<br /><br />John Lennon did not know his father as he was growing up, his mother was killed in an accident and he was raised by his aunt. His first marriage failed and during his second marriage he stayed at home, giving up a career worth millions to bring up his son with Yoko Ono. He did not turn his back on marriage or fatherhood but despite his lack of a traditional family upbringing he made choices about how to live his life with others. Surely the authors do not have the right to deny others the ability to make those choices?ike. <br /> <br />John Lennon did not know his father as he was growing up, his mother was killed in an accident and he was raised by his aunt. His first marriage failed and during his second marriage he stayed at home, giving up a career worth millions to bring up his son with Yoko Ono. He did not turn his back on marriage or fatherhood but despite his lack of a traditional family upbringing he made choices about how to live his life with others. Surely the authors do not have the right to deny others the ability to make those choices?	2004-09-10
US	49834367	R2NCFMBXZQ2ZYH	1903386012	182145672	Regulating Doctors (Civil Society)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	All in all it's just another crack in the wall.	This is a very well written tract which explores the continued deterioration in the facade of professionalism of doctors which gained most exposure under Mrs. Thatcher's withering competitive stare.<br /><br />The quality of each of the papers is very high under the editorship of David Gladstone and is a useful contribution to the continuing debate over healthcare which dominates social policy thinking in the major western industrialised nations.<br /><br />Whithin the domestic British political system, at least to my knowledge within the Conservative party, one of the easiest ways to gain a voice was to denounce a conference motion as not going far enough. In the case of this tract it is an easy enough target. Whilst it is certainly true that consumers have made significant advances in exposing the doctor's closed shop to public view, albeit in the light of a series of tragedies which befell patients, the closed shop still exists. It is certainly an improvement that the professional body which governs doctors' performance has instituted reforms but that in itself is neither a necessary nor suffient condition for the changes that are required to occur.<br /><br />This is the only criticism I have of the book but I feel that it is a crucial one. The mission of the Institute for the Study of Civil Society is to examine the institutions  and institutional structures compatible with balancing the role of the state such that politics does not dominate. Here I feel that more radical ideas need to be considered rather than gradualist reforms.<br /><br />The Thatcher governments introduced the notion of competition into healthcare provision which hitherto had been provided by the monolithic entity of the Nationalised Health Service. Rather than tinker, the contributors should think the unthinkable to break the stranglehold of doctor's monopoly power and introduce competitive elemnts into all aspects of medical provision. The effects of such competition would provide more realistic benchmarks of performance together with transparent processes by which the consumers of health, patients, hospitals, administrators etc could more accurately judge quality and cost of that provision.<br /><br />Not to be churlish, these papers are somewhat of a step in the right direction nut the authors ought not to be cowed by the medical establishment in serious consideration of badly needed radical reform in healthcare provision.more realistic benchmarks of performance together with transparent processes by which the consumers of health, patients, hospitals, administrators etc could more accurately judge quality and cost of that provision. <br /> <br />Not to be churlish, these papers are somewhat of a step in the right direction nut the authors ought not to be cowed by the medical establishment in serious consideration of badly needed radical reform in healthcare provision.	2004-09-08
US	49834367	R75HNSV5DNTZ4	1903386047	634177374	Marriage-Lite : The Rise of Cohabitation and its Consequences (Civil Society)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	The family way.	You have to admire Patricia Morgan, the author of this research paper into the rise of cohabitation and it's consequences. Clearly an excellent piece of scholarship where she argues very persuasively why the institution of marriage is a far superior choice than cohabitation which has the added disadvantage of having negative externalities to go with negative attributes.<br /><br />I was an avid reader of this particular volume in the series which appears to have the avowed aim of maintaining the family as constituted in the conservative press and other media as the central institution of our society upon which all else is built.<br /><br />I do find in odd that such a reactionary conservative agenda originates from a think tank which began life as an integral part of the free market Institute of Economic Affairs in London. The theme of the family as the bedrock upon which all society rests is a recurring one in their publications and here in this little report the trend toward cohabitation as a lifestyle choice is critically attacked as somehow undermining that sacred institution.<br /><br />Morgan writes very persuasively and marshalls her facts and arguments to portray cohabitation as a very inferior choice which does untold harm to the very fabric of our socity. Connecting this with the sexual revolution she sets out to undermine the story of cohabitation as a longstanding tradition within Britsh society going back hundreds of years and instead portraying it as a modern aberration. She argues that individuals who cohabit tend to be from the lower strata of society, tend to be less educated and tend to do less well in life and she uses the emotive argument of children suffering through cohabitation and being disadvantaged in life through being reared in cohabiting family units.<br /><br />However, Morgan is disengious in her attack. The subtext of her contribution is that we are somehow all better off in families but she never really shows how everyone in a family is better off. Now, of all things I may be, I do not consider myself to be a leftwing believer in female liberation. I do consider that women are individuals too and that their choices are just as valid as a man's. If we examine the basis of Morgan's view then surely women in marriage must gain to some extent if they are participant in it voluntarily. The problem is that women are voting with their feet. They may want to marry but they might want to defer that action until a time of their own choosing. Morgan undertakes some reverse engineering to show how the reasons people give for cohabitation fail the test in comparison to marriage regardless of which indicator is chosen.<br /><br />What Morgan seems so outraged about is the fact that traditional societies are changing to more individua;istic ones where women have their own earning power and greater control than ever before over their own lives. Not all changes will be for the better but there will be a learning process, a trial and error process and in the meantime there will be dislocating effects. I am not arguing that these effects prove Morgan's points but I am arguing that the choices which many millions of individuals are making will produce different results and different patterns of family structure to those which have been around for centuries.<br /><br />The point, clearly lost on Patricia Morgan, is that those choices are for the individuals involved to make and not hers. The conservative reactionary agenda she espouses is one from which women were not able to participate in because they did not have the economic or political power necessary to participate.<br /><br />Marriage-Lite is certainly a book that anyone interested in debates over social policy should be reading with a critical eye but especially women.is better off. Now, of all things I may be, I do not consider myself to be a leftwing believer in female liberation. I do consider that women are individuals too and that their choices are just as valid as a man's. If we examine the basis of Morgan's view then surely women in marriage must gain to some extent if they are participant in it voluntarily. The problem is that women are voting with their feet. They may want to marry but they might want to defer that action until a time of their own choosing. Morgan undertakes some reverse engineering to show how the reasons people give for cohabitation fail the test in comparison to marriage regardless of which indicator is chosen.<br /><br />What Morgan seems so outraged about is the fact that traditional societies are changing to more individua;istic ones where women have their own earning power and greater control than ever before over their own lives. Not all changes will be for the better but there will be a learning process, a trial and error process and in the meantime there will be dislocating effects. I am not arguing that these effects prove Morgan's points but I am arguing that the choices which many millions of individuals are making will produce different results and different patterns of family structure to those which have been around for centuries.<br /><br />The point, clearly lost on Patricia Morgan, is that those choices are for the individuals involved to make and not hers. The conservative reactionary agenda she espouses is one from which women were not able to participate in because they did not have the economic or political power necessary to participate.<br /><br />Marriage-Lite is certainly a book that anyone interested in debates over social policy should be reading with a critical eye but especially women.	2004-09-08
US	49834367	R3FAOLMPN4ZUSC	1903386004	347690788	Welfare, Work and Poverty: Lessons from Recent Reforms in the US and the UK (Civil Society)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Welfare Reform Yes, Subjegation of Women No!	This is a very well written book in the sense of being grammatically correct and very persuasive in the logic of their arguments.<br /><br />I take issue with the overall tone of the book in one particular but fundamental area to which I shall return later.<br /><br />In the case of welfare reform, it is clear that all western industrialised societies are now facing a fundamental truth. The idea that public expenditures can keep on growing, financed through taxation to maintain nationalised industries and socialised programmes is one which is well past it's sell by date. Even today, over four years since this publication was produced, the paragon of socialized provision, Sweden, is learning that they cannot squeeze ever more money out of the private, productive sector or even individual consumers.<br /><br />That being said, social programmes, often despite the best of intentions have repeatedly been shown to have unitended consequences which are far reaching in their impact and which often create increased demands on the welfare state.<br /><br />Others have shown how welfare programmes can enslave huge numbers of the population and create an underclass of people who become disenfranchised from regular society. There has, to considerable degree been a convergence of views between right and left over the detrimental effects of over-generous welfare programmes although I would hesitate to say that there has yet been a meeting of minds upon the subject. Some left-radical figures such as Frank Field have thought seriously about such issues and have suggested reforms to the systems but often those who adminster government recoil at implementing what are often very radical socutions which will have short to medium term political repercussions which will in turn affect those who introduce them.<br /><br />As far as the concern for learning the lessons for recent reforms is concerned this little pamphlet will add to the debate which must continue as there is a long way to go and is a useful contribution to that debate.<br /><br />Norman Dennis' contribution however, brings me to another side of the debate which is less savoury. Dennis takes on the notion of sexual liberation which to me is a fundamental attack on the rights and roles of women in society. The tone of the article is clearly articulated attack on the right of people to form some sort of union with other people rather than form a permanent relationship in the form of heterosexual marriage. Dennis supports his attacks on the inadequacies of alternative arrangements throgh the use of published statistics and anecdotal tales of local events. He sets up the straw man only to knock it down again. He belittles the portrayal of strong women in the media by arguing that these are all women of independent means and who are not typical of the population in general. What he is suggesting is that this is propaganda from those in society who wish to undermine our society and who have no regard for a more conservative view of the evolution of society came about. By doing so he suggests that traditional family values are eternal and have proved time and again to provide benefits to those involved in them and which will be lost in the tsunai of radical change.<br /><br />Dennis is very persuasive here and articlates a vision found in earlier generations of politicians who long for a mythological golden age when women were happy with their lot and did not mind depending on men for their fulfillment. This view permeates across the left and right boundaries of politics.<br /><br />It suggests that women are not capable of holding careers and being involved in family life unless they have independent means and that is the chink in the armour.<br /><br />The answer is to assist women in attaining that financial independence and increasing their ability to participate in society as individuals and not as people who can only achieve that success by marrying into wealth. The notion that only some form of marriage rite endorsed by the state is the only institutional arrangement that can benefit both participants is laughable. A more likely scenario is some form of private, legal contract between the two parties can achieve similar if not even better results. What is at issue here is that we are currently in a form of societal organisation where in some respects women are equal to men but not in others. Equality of opportunity does not need to involve social programmes of housing and child support. It may need to provide some of those things. Women are however, burdened by an inequality of chances to play the game in the same way as men. They are not as easily likely to achieve financial independence which would allow them to compete and it is this which must be dealt with. Sexual liberation is one thing. True independence is another. Reasserting traditional marriages will not help either.otion that only some form of marriage rite endorsed by the state is the only institutional arrangement that can benefit both participants is laughable. A more likely scenario is some form of private, legal contract between the two parties can achieve similar if not even better results. What is at issue here is that we are currently in a form of societal organisation where in some respects women are equal to men but not in others. Equality of opportunity does not need to involve social programmes of housing and child support. It may need to provide some of those things. Women are however, burdened by an inequality of chances to play the game in the same way as men. They are not as easily likely to achieve financial independence which would allow them to compete and it is this which must be dealt with. Sexual liberation is one thing. True independence is another. Reasserting traditional marriages will not help either.	2004-09-02
US	49834367	R6BKA4BKKTCBU	0521445523	400366877	Austrian Economics in America: The Migration of a Tradition (Historical Perspectives on Modern Economics)	Books	5	11	12	N	Y	Helping to Better Understand the World as We Know It	My introduction to the Austrian School of Economics came with a chance encounter of a publication from the Institute of Economic Affairs of London. This one monograph helped me to discover more of their particular publications and other similar books and pamphlets at the Laissez Faire Bookshop where one could often overhear at the very least some strenuous debates about economics and politics etc. My real academic introduction came with a paper by Peter Wynarczyck presented at a Newcastle upon Tyne Polytechnic Conference which drew together some of the historic strands of the school and some of the controversial ideas which it had generated.<br /><br />I came back to Karen Vaughn's book while preparing another review for Amazon although in a slightly different field and, from the point of view of an educated layman, I have to say that I find this particular volume to be an excellent and succint piece of work but which perhaps at the time of writing requires a new edition.<br /><br />I do not claim to be au fait with all of the various controversies within the Austrian School but I understand that there are some dogmatic fissures between certain groups some of whom claim that there's alone is the one true faith and who resist criticism especially from outside the academic arena.<br /><br />My purpose in this brief review is to highlight what I believe is to be one of the best introductions to this particular field that I have read which is generally accessible to anyone with a reasonable grasp of economic and political ideas and who is at least a little sceptical of the current state of neoclassical economic theory. For readers who would like to sample the Austrian tradition without delving into a book of this size I would heartily recommend Stephen Littlechild's 'Fallacy of the Mixed Economy' even though it too is showing it's age.<br /><br />Austrian Economics in America is a story of a set of ideas who's time has come. The pretentions of economics as science are seen every day while the failures are glossed over. I hasten to add that I am not engaged in a sweeping generalisation against all economics. I certainly believe that it has some usefulness but it appears to me that other than providing a means by which we may view the world there are some serious shortcomings to it's applicability.<br /><br />Vaughn shows how a different perspective, originating with Carl Menger, can illuminate some of the shortcomings of the science of economics and offer a different and more richer view, but which too has it's attendant problems and issues. She sets out carefully and with the appropriate level of detail, the development of those ideas over a 120 year period and their gradual acceptance, albeit in a limited number of academic centres, in America primarily but increasingly across a post Communist world. She traces out the essential differences between some of the rival camps within the school and suggests links between them and even offers some suggestions to move forward. One of the things that I really like about this book is the openess with which she draws comparisons with other areas in economics which are looking into similar areas of study although from different perspectives and political or ideological viewpoints. In the onclusion particularly she quietly suggests that the implications for future developments in the Austrian tradition may be a lot more radical than the protaganists in the tradition expect.<br /><br />Reading the book is a pleasant enough task because of the author's prose style but reader's beware of the radical notions which are introduced. As an historical document and summary it really has much to commend it. As a statement of somewhat revolutionary ideas it is a great introduction to some of the mostsignificant academic thinkers of our time who are held in great esteem. My only, very minor reservation is that the contributions of some other pioneers in this field are not included such as the sterling work of Arthur Seldon at the Institute of Economic Affairs in London and for the Atlas Foundation in brining these ideas to a wider and younger audience across the world, but that is a minor quibble.<br /><br />It certainly works for me at least in helping the reader taker a broader look at economics and motivate one to delve deeper into the treasures of the Austrian tradition. I would urge anyone working for an undergraduate or graduate degree in Economics to broaden their horizons with theis very clear and succinct book.sterling work of Arthur Seldon at the Institute of Economic Affairs in London and for the Atlas Foundation in brining these ideas to a wider and younger audience across the world, but that is a minor quibble. <br /> <br />It certainly works for me at least in helping the reader taker a broader look at economics and motivate one to delve deeper into the treasures of the Austrian tradition. I would urge anyone working for an undergraduate or graduate degree in Economics to broaden their horizons with theis very clear and succinct book.	2004-08-07
US	49834367	R3F2G544NFLJI	1856711323	18361606	I-Spy on a Car Journey II	Books	5	0	0	N	N	One of the best parents aid to helping children learn	Gosh it is years since I used to avidly buy and work through every one of the I-Spy books. I vaguely recollect that there was some sort of club and certificates but these were of minor importance compared to actually spotting many of the wonderous things that were contained in these books.<br />Now, this review is not meant to be a nostalgic journey in search of a long lost youth. Nor is it intended to be a trip down memory lane, yearning for all our yeaterdays. I can hear it now...things were never as good as when I was a lad...you were lucky. We used to dream of walking twenty miles each day to school and back with only one raincoat between 59 of us in our family...by the heck lad things were tough in my day...etc etc.<br />This little book certainly makes one look back and recall some halcyon days but to me it represents missed opportunities. I bought this book for my ten year old son to give him some ideas about experiences in England as a child of his age, but also to educate him a little about the wider world and show some of the similarities and differences between British and United States cultures. The newer editions of the series play a more openly educational role that the earlier ones, a development I am not entirely happy with.<br />The emphasis has shifted clearly from the interested individual seeking out strange new words and new items, to a more informative book directing the reader to examples. Personally I prefer the encouragement of initiative to write down the when, where and why fore's but that is just me.<br />I-Spy books such as the one here represent to me the innocence and wonderment of childhood where there is so much to know to explore and to learn. They encouraged an inquisitiveness in children like me which is pre-empted now by all of these TV shows telling us about everything. To me that is to miss the point and treat children like empty vessels to filled while making lots of sound.<br />These books are no longer around except in Amazon's and other pages. Perhaps they should be resurrected globally to reflect individual nation's own individuality. Our children should be nurtured mentall and physically and taught how to draw on their own reserves through guidance in the way of the old I-Spy books. Perhaps I am an old fuddy-duddy wallowing in nostalgia but this little book made me think a little longer and harder about how we raise our children to be the people that we want them to be and that cannot be a bad thing.<br />I heartily recommend this book and others like it to children of all ages and from all countries.n's and other pages. Perhaps they should be resurrected globally to reflect individual nation's own individuality. Our children should be nurtured mentall and physically and taught how to draw on their own reserves through guidance in the way of the old I-Spy books. Perhaps I am an old fuddy-duddy wallowing in nostalgia but this little book made me think a little longer and harder about how we raise our children to be the people that we want them to be and that cannot be a bad thing.<br />I heartily recommend this book and others like it to children of all ages and from all countries.	2004-06-19
US	49834367	R1NOR65HPGTVXF	0876638787	691711848	Milton Friedman: A Guide to His Economic Thought	Books	5	13	14	N	N	Friedman 101.	I was drawn back to Eamonn Butler's 1985 book while working my way through the latest venture by Brian Snowdon and Howard Vane. Almost twenty years after the publication it still seems as fresh as ever and should still be considered the best introductory work about Milton Friedman particularly for the student.<br />Given the advances in macroeconomics which have taken place since the 1970s, an era now fading away thankfully into distant memory, it is not surprising that concerns about money continue to dominate the debate. World events, such as deflation in Japan and the tremendous efforts by Federal Reserve Governor Greenspan to prevent such an occurrence in the United States, continue to place the Friedman analysis and theory at the centre of the ongoing discussion.<br />This magnificent little book has at it's centrepiece Friedman's work on Monetary Theory. Butler, writing from the position of a fellow free-marketeer does an outstanding job restraining his infectious free market self to provide an exemplary elucidation of Milton Friedman's writings and how they overcame sustained attack from the Keynesian orthodoxy to establish themselves as a counter-revolution. He does not assume much prior knowledge of the reader but seeks to establish with remarkable clarity Friedman's position and how he got there. He certainly does real justice to the nature of the attacks and examines their arguments carefully. Fairness is a good description of his approach. He is not afraid to bring in criticism from the Austrian school to show that attacks on Friedman's work are not only from the left.<br />In the latter sections of the book he also looks at Friedman's position as a free marketeer and some of the policy proposals he has made and also in the final chapter, which for me was the most interesting he looks at some of the methodological issues generated by Friedman.<br />One is reminded of the remark attributed to Popper that a theory which explains everything explains nothing when reading this chapter. Butler robustly defends Friedmans theorizing based on empirical evidence and casts aside the majority of objections to this approach. he chides those who make their models more and more complex to include new developments and candidly criticizes those economists who talk among themselves in the rarified realms of abtruse reasoning. As John Lennon once said, 'life is what happens when you are busy making other plans'. There is one issue where Butler concurs that Friedman's theory is open to attack and that is on the question of adjustment costs involved in relative price changes as a result of a monetary diturbance.<br />I am not convinced that the final chapter should not have been the first but it certainly fits nicely into the logic of the book that Eamonn Butler has written so well.<br />This is a book that is enthusiastically recommended for any student of economics or even just an interested reader. Should also be required reading for anyone going into public service for the first time but then so should much of Eamonn Butler's other work which comes from the Adam Smith Institute.when reading this chapter. Butler robustly defends Friedmans theorizing based on empirical evidence and casts aside the majority of objections to this approach. he chides those who make their models more and more complex to include new developments and candidly criticizes those economists who talk among themselves in the rarified realms of abtruse reasoning. As John Lennon once said, 'life is what happens when you are busy making other plans'. There is one issue where Butler concurs that Friedman's theory is open to attack and that is on the question of adjustment costs involved in relative price changes as a result of a monetary diturbance.<br />I am not convinced that the final chapter should not have been the first but it certainly fits nicely into the logic of the book that Eamonn Butler has written so well.<br />This is a book that is enthusiastically recommended for any student of economics or even just an interested reader. Should also be required reading for anyone going into public service for the first time but then so should much of Eamonn Butler's other work which comes from the Adam Smith Institute.	2003-08-29
US	49834367	R3O6BGYTKK8ZAD	0815411634	306522016	Living with the Dead: Twenty Years on the Bus with Garcia and the Grateful Dead	Books	3	26	32	N	Y	What was it...If you can remember the sixties then you...	This is an immensely readable swashbuckling tale by the first mate on the good ship Grateful Dead for some years at least. The reader is transfixed by the gory tales of drug use and abuse of sex and life on the rock 'n' rollroad. You are mesmerized by tales of dosing everyone who came within reach with LSD and standing back and watching the reactions. With each page there is new excess and with every other page the narrator recounts some contact with the authorities or other and escapades of derring-do and close shaves.<br />What a long, strange trip indeed. Of course, the writers' credibility must be in question to some degree. Given his early confession of consuming many tabs of acid much of which of the strength and purity that only Owsley Stanley could muster, the exact occurrences must have some dubious quality about them.<br />As Joni Mitchell has pointed out sex sells along with lurid tales of goings on in the rock and roll universe. In this case the many references to under age sex with band members throughout the book are some of the obvious sensationalist traps used to entice the unwary reader.<br />The trouble is that it is so easy to read dammit and so many of us want to know more about what our anti-heroes get up to. And it must be true too because, you know, he was there when it all went down. Well there is that side of things but then how can you believe everything that you read?<br />My fascination with the Grateful Dead came about through listening to their music, on record and in performance. Whether I got to know anything about their private lives really had nothing to do with my enjoying their sounds. Sure they became celebrities and they got big and sure they as musicians were exposed to things that most people do not. But there is nothing new in that and they were not the first or will be the last to meet ferryman through drug use. The fact remains that most of the people who enjoyed the Dead enjoyed their music first and foremost even if they did like to party to it.<br />When I finally put this down I felt revulsion about how someone so close to his hero Jerry Garcia could lay bare his humanity so cruelly for all the world to see. Garcia may not have been a saint but did he have to see his dignity destroyed by one who purported to be his friend.<br />What is missing most from this book is the music and the relationships involved. If you want sensationalist stories dripping with lurid day-glo details then get this book now. If you want to know more about the man, men and their music read something else.<br />Rock Scully was an integral part of the Grateful Dead organisation for a long time. It is a pity that he did not do the justice to everyone in that organisation that they deserved.did like to party to it.<br />When I finally put this down I felt revulsion about how someone so close to his hero Jerry Garcia could lay bare his humanity so cruelly for all the world to see. Garcia may not have been a saint but did he have to see his dignity destroyed by one who purported to be his friend.<br />What is missing most from this book is the music and the relationships involved. If you want sensationalist stories dripping with lurid day-glo details then get this book now. If you want to know more about the man, men and their music read something else.<br />Rock Scully was an integral part of the Grateful Dead organisation for a long time. It is a pity that he did not do the justice to everyone in that organisation that they deserved.	2003-08-29
US	49834367	R2JN224TKUFLWF	0255363834	924870500	Down to Earth II (Studies on the Environment)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Son of Mr. Green Genes	I very much enjoyed reading this second collection of articles from Mr. Ridley's now defunct column about the cant and hyperbole published by many of the so-callled green and environmental campaigners.<br />Mr. Ridley writes in a refreshing, fun way about serious issues which confront the environment without the pretentiousness and certainty that many campaigners do. He writes with irony and mocks a lot of the claims which are made but not substantiated by many alarmists. He also writes on the basis of having some knowledge and experience of the subjects he writes about which is a little unusual for this area.<br />I like the brevity and conciseness of the articles written on the level that the man on the Ashington Omnibus would understand without being offended by. He speaks to the regular individual who cares about his surroundings as much as anyone else.<br />Most of all I like the refreshing way that he exposes the environmental lobbies as being what they really are - self-serving organizations which create and maintain jobs for people out of touch with the realities of the world who go from one junket to another often without coming into contact with the environment at all.<br />This is an excellent little book both serious and amusing. Let us hope that the author will find another voice for us to share soon.	2003-06-14
US	49834367	R1GQ4UE16D6ZZE	0255363796	644285991	Conservation and the Countryside: By Quango or Market? (Choice in Welfare)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	And in that green and pleasant land...	As a boy growing up in Sunderland I was always was aware of the weeds growing amid the rubble of derelict building sites and on visits to my grandparents in the local countryside I would pass the multi-coloured fields replete with cows and sheep. Mostly I remember the many shapes and sizes of butterflies who were very abundant. Forty or so years later on a recent visit I discovered the air being full of the heavy odour of the oil-seed rape who'se colour is like a giant highlighter marked across the land. And few butterflies!<br />Mark Pennington narrates a tale of a power struggle between those living and working on the land and on the other hand government as well as pressure groups supposedly concerned with the countryside and the Ramblers Association who want to trample the whole of Britain underfoot.<br />It is a fascinating tale which traces the gradual extinction of individual rights of ownership under both Conservative and Labour governments which extend to almost every aspect of life. Houses cannot be built, fields cannot be sown, trespassers can roam anywhere strewing refuse without challenge. Over all of this presides the distant European Union which has followed disastrous agricultural policies almost since it's inception in the 1950's and continues to do so today.<br />The English countryside is often portrayed as an unchanging familiar landscape where the natural features have been preserved for the general population over the years. The propaganda of England's pleasant lands is a powerful resonant force in the country. Pennington shows how successive government policies have shaped and changed that countryside over the years and not always in the best possible way. The worst example is the rise and spread of the sitka spruce at the expense of the traditional broadleaf a spread which has decimated the Scottish countryside at the cost of millions to the taxpayer and for little obvious benefit to anyone.<br />Pennington articulates a strong case for privatisation. Privatisation in the sense of restoring rights to individual farmers and landowners who are often castigated for their errors by the same politicians and pressure groups who have devastated the countryside to such a great extent. Their errors and mistakes pale into insignificance but were contained by their relatively small scales.<br />British politicians gather votes by campaigning to save the rural post offices or some other relatively slight issue while pursuing policies which cause the biggest impact. After over fifty years you might expect some politicians to realise that the answer is not big overbearing government but small scale individual ownership and accountability. Mark Pennington has done an excellent service in bringing these issues to public scruting.<br />On a final note I cannot help but state  my final observation about the English landscape from my last visit. There were hardly any butterflies!tisation. Privatisation in the sense of restoring rights to individual farmers and landowners who are often castigated for their errors by the same politicians and pressure groups who have devastated the countryside to such a great extent. Their errors and mistakes pale into insignificance but were contained by their relatively small scales.<br />British politicians gather votes by campaigning to save the rural post offices or some other relatively slight issue while pursuing policies which cause the biggest impact. After over fifty years you might expect some politicians to realise that the answer is not big overbearing government but small scale individual ownership and accountability. Mark Pennington has done an excellent service in bringing these issues to public scruting.<br />On a final note I cannot help but state  my final observation about the English landscape from my last visit. There were hardly any butterflies!	2003-06-14
US	49834367	R32VOG2EOSO2S1	0255363486	347818043	The Political Economy of Land Degradation: Pressure Groups, Foreign Aid and the Myth of Man-made Deserts (Studies on the Environment)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	The Fearful Void	On my first visit to Los Angeles I could not see the nearby desert for almost a week due to the smog. When it finally was visible I realised that a desert was not merely like those which were photographed so well in Lawrence of Arabia, but were much more complex and diverse than I had ever imagined.<br />I am using those remarks to preface my review of this book because the contents opened up my mind to a much more diverse view of some of the most fundamental institutions of economic development, particularly the big three of United Nations, World Bank and the International Monetary Fund. During my studies in Development Economics at the University of Northumbria, I had come to accept the explanation of the phenomena of expanding deserts given in many books and periodicals as due to overuse and over-exploitation.<br />This book blows the whole concept out of the water with a well argued and substantiated critique of the traditional explanations and the role that the supra-national organisations in conjunction with national governments in perpetrating such fictions. Julian Morris has done the developing world in particular a service in highlighting an economics of politics approach which shows the powerful position these organisations abise in manipulating the press, public and academic opinion to reflect their ulterior motives of bureau creation and expansion at the cost of immense human misery and loss of life.<br />Morris not only exposes the myths that are perpetuated and the extent to which the rich and powerful of the international community use these for their own ends but he also shows how the so-called peasants, looking after their own interests not only rationally take actions which prevent desertification, such as it is, but also are the best private solutions for reclamation.<br />This fascinating account is as gripping as many novels. In many respects it is like a novel as so much of it is hard to believe given the degree of academic and media manipulation which has occurred. Morris displays great tenacity in his research and observations and his closely argued work demonstrates considerable concentration to prove his point. I am particularly fond off his expose of the issue of the Land Degradation in the United States which he attaches as an appendix to the main text.<br />This is a courageous piece of work which deserves greater exposure to the widest possible audience.on which has occurred. Morris displays great tenacity in his research and observations and his closely argued work demonstrates considerable concentration to prove his point. I am particularly fond off his expose of the issue of the Land Degradation in the United States which he attaches as an appendix to the main text.<br />This is a courageous piece of work which deserves greater exposure to the widest possible audience.	2003-06-12
US	49834367	R25IGUFKMRX9YC	0255363478	673830438	Rhinos: Conservation, Economics & Trade-Offs (Iea Studies on the Environment, No. 4)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Rhino's - Taking the issue by the horns!	This little book is about conservation but with a twist. It is a book about conservation by removing the restraints on trade in rhino horn. As such it is probably unacceptable to many who espouse conservation who will no doubt condemn this contribution without even reading it. Therein lies another tale altogether.<br />Readers of this review may wish to consider the whole question of conservation anew. The proponents of conservation who achieve the greates publicity often align themselves with governments and non-governmental organizations in formulating policies which are predominantly of an anti-market nature. The repeated rationale given is not that they are neccessarily anti-market as such but they have objections on moral grounds to the whole concept of 'wild' animals being owned, reared, and harvested by people and companies. While this may be a laudable stance the result is often a conservation failure as animals are needlessly slaughtered by those who do not share their principles but who see an opportunity to better themselves substantially because laws and treaties have made that scenario come true.<br />In this book the author sets out this horrible tale of events whereby the rhinocerous populations of Africa in particular are on the verge of extinction. Unlike the case of the African elephant which still exists in some considerable numbers, the rhinos are left in thousands. The reasons for the attractiveness of the rhino horn are set out along with the history of trade throughout the years while the myth of rhino horn is dispelled with the mundane demand for horn for dagger handles in places like Yemen or as a component of medicine in China.<br />The author is very clear about the impact that intergovernmental organisations have on the market for rhino horn which raises the price on world markets and which causes poachers to kill these magnificent beasts to defy a shoot to kill policy in some countries. By restricting trade in this way these treaties place untold wealth before the poor in mainly African countries where percapita incomes are very low and which allow middle-men and professional smugglers to earn very high rates of return indeed. Such is the prospects of this wealth that the poachers have no qualms about destrying many of the animals in a short-sighted policy of personal enrichment. As 't Sas Rolfes shows the enforcement costs of these laws are so high that they are uinsustainable over the longer term and so the slaughter goes on.<br />He sets out an alternative prescription which involves establishing property rights over the native animals so that the restraints on the trade are removed and that the people who live with the animals on a daily basis will benefit. This clearly becomes a moral argument but those conservationists shout see that ultimately the rhinos will benefit from a secure future. Farmers in every country try to husband their resouces and take a longer term view which would be no different in the case of rhinos. The get rich quick incentives for poachers would disappear and enforcement costs would be both localised and diversified and would be incorporated into price. There are many forms of commercialisation which do not involve killing.<br />The moral dilemma comes down to this: while owning the beasts may be morally repugnant, is it not more repugnant to try and fail to prevent the wholescale slaughter which continues to this day because of the peverse incentives established by treaties intending to prevent it?<br />I know which I prefer.ce untold wealth before the poor in mainly African countries where percapita incomes are very low and which allow middle-men and professional smugglers to earn very high rates of return indeed. Such is the prospects of this wealth that the poachers have no qualms about destrying many of the animals in a short-sighted policy of personal enrichment. As 't Sas Rolfes shows the enforcement costs of these laws are so high that they are uinsustainable over the longer term and so the slaughter goes on.<br />He sets out an alternative prescription which involves establishing property rights over the native animals so that the restraints on the trade are removed and that the people who live with the animals on a daily basis will benefit. This clearly becomes a moral argument but those conservationists shout see that ultimately the rhinos will benefit from a secure future. Farmers in every country try to husband their resouces and take a longer term view which would be no different in the case of rhinos. The get rich quick incentives for poachers would disappear and enforcement costs would be both localised and diversified and would be incorporated into price. There are many forms of commercialisation which do not involve killing.<br />The moral dilemma comes down to this: while owning the beasts may be morally repugnant, is it not more repugnant to try and fail to prevent the wholescale slaughter which continues to this day because of the peverse incentives established by treaties intending to prevent it?<br />I know which I prefer.	2003-06-08
US	49834367	R26E0HRFWGMM55	0255363451	8168089	Down to Earth: Contrarian View of Environmental Problems (Studies on the Environment)	Books	5	9	11	N	N	Mary, Mary quite contrary, how does your garden grow?	As a boy I grew up in a part of Sunderland called Southwick where terraced houses were only a short walk away from shipyards, a coal mine and local telephone factories. As a teenager I moved to a suburb called Penshaw where the skyline was dominated by a replica of a Doric temple and where terraced houses were only a short walk away from a mine spoil heap, the monument to the Lambton Worm and the country home of Lord Lambton himself.<br />These facts are very pertinent to this superb little book of articles by Matt Ridley. I have always been somewhat sceptical of just taking in what other people tell me and so I have had a terrible tendency of going out and finding out for myself. You cannot help but notice if you live in England how things change so quickly. Our towns expanded, the countryside shrank, the fields are dominated by that disgustingly yellow oil seed rape and the number of butterflies has dramatically falled. Environmentalists tell us that the end is nigh and cite all sorts of scary things to make their case but there is never the concrete proof that any reasonably educated person might wish to see.<br />Elsewhere on the Amazon boards readers will notice my revieve of the Skeptical Environmentalist. This review has brought me some notoriety and some, ahem shall we say unfriendly correspondance. However the point remains that there is some truth in the rumor that environmental organisations can only be considered successful if they attract funds and the only way they can do this is to scare the general populations sufficiently to attract their notice.<br />Matt Ridley does a tremendous service in being a qualified scientific journalist who can cut through the scare tactics to put forward a sensible view on some of this stuff and make a common sense criticism which is generally accesssible.<br />In this wonderful little green book a collection of his published articles in Britain's Telegraph newspaper are collected and wherein he 'debunks' to coin the American terminology a considerable number of what can only be termed environmental myths.<br />His comments are well written, brief and to the point as journalists points should be and which bring a new sense of information to what is normally considered a serious scientific subject beyond the ken of us lesser mortals.<br />In his inimitable style he brings an insider's point of view backed up by his own experience of living in Northumberland which must surely rank as one of the most beautiful relatively unspoilt areas of the British Isles.<br />I heartily commend this book to everyone and in particular to anyone who knows anything about the famous cattle who reside in the Northumbria area.rican terminology a considerable number of what can only be termed environmental myths.<br />His comments are well written, brief and to the point as journalists points should be and which bring a new sense of information to what is normally considered a serious scientific subject beyond the ken of us lesser mortals.<br />In his inimitable style he brings an insider's point of view backed up by his own experience of living in Northumberland which must surely rank as one of the most beautiful relatively unspoilt areas of the British Isles.<br />I heartily commend this book to everyone and in particular to anyone who knows anything about the famous cattle who reside in the Northumbria area.	2003-06-06
US	49834367	R1VZ4JWSXIX9IS	0255363427	653444410	Elephants & Ivory: Lessons from the Trade Ban (Studies on the Environment)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Nellie the elephant packed her trunk - scared of do-gooders!	Paul Kantner wrote a rock song once entitled \\"When I was a boy I watched the wolves\\", a song which kept returning to my conciousness whilst I read this tragic book.<br />The book recounts the tale of the demise of the African elephant as a consequence of state action. Not the states who's boundaries hold these wonderful creatures but the states whose representatives come together in a United Nations organisation called CITES with the declared aim is to protect endangered species.<br />I sympathise very strongly with that motive as I believe as an individual that there is a reason for the diversity of the planet and that ecologically there is much interdependence between and among species. I am old enough and educated enough to know that there are external forces which prevent us as a species for preserving all other life intact and that choices must be made. For those reasons and others I weigh all attempts to preserve species with care.<br />Alas, in the real world there are politics and power which intrude violently with our human sympathies. In this particular case the book throws into sharp distinction the way in which African states and their peoples are forced to conform with the requirements of the wealthier, more powerful governments and their non-governmental organisations in accepting policies which are detrimental to them on the spurious grounds thatthe western governments know best how to safeguard their precious, indigenous wildlife. Subtle threats to aid and investment are sufficient to keep the African nations in line even though their track record may show that they have successfully resisted allowing the African elephant to become extinct. Indeed one of the peversities of all of this is the fact that it is western demand for ivory which leads to the call for a ban on the trade in ivory which is controlled by a western agreement and forced upon unwilling countries.<br />Elephants and Ivory makes a compelling case against the CITES agreement, preferring to draw on the research of the property rights field to show how private ownership and management of these scarce resources can lead to a more beneficial solution. During the development of their argument the authors show how the theoretical framework upon which the CITES agreement is based is fatally flawed and which achieve the opposite effect to which it is superficially intended.<br />In the years since this excellent little book was published it has become clear in a number of conservation areas as well as this that all bans do is to raise the preice of the product in question which in turn makes it more profitable for more suppliers to enter the market increasing both risk and reward but also enforcement costs while resulting in death and moving closer to species extinction.<br />I would strongly urge anyone interested in conservation or indeeed just the well being of animals to read this book. Perhaps there are exit ramps off the road to hell.ng to draw on the research of the property rights field to show how private ownership and management of these scarce resources can lead to a more beneficial solution. During the development of their argument the authors show how the theoretical framework upon which the CITES agreement is based is fatally flawed and which achieve the opposite effect to which it is superficially intended.<br />In the years since this excellent little book was published it has become clear in a number of conservation areas as well as this that all bans do is to raise the preice of the product in question which in turn makes it more profitable for more suppliers to enter the market increasing both risk and reward but also enforcement costs while resulting in death and moving closer to species extinction.<br />I would strongly urge anyone interested in conservation or indeeed just the well being of animals to read this book. Perhaps there are exit ramps off the road to hell.	2003-06-05
US	49834367	R23MAB0EAVKU2G	0671034030	108835526	Got a Revolution! The Turbulent Flight of Jefferson Airplane	Books	5	8	8	N	Y	You Say You Want a Revolution, Wehell You Know...	What a great read this book is! It is hard to put down as the author keeps you hooked on the next installment so that you just motor on smoothly to the end.<br />Sitting on my shelves is the first book I ever read on Jefferson Airplane, a 1969 book by Ralph Gleason, sandwiched between Hank Harrison's book on the Grateful Dead and the inevitable Electric Kool Aid Acid Test. Tamarkin's excellent tome now joins it and will probably become the definitive word on the subject. It certainly fills the void that has existed for some years since the Gleason book was published and the Airplane metamorphosed into Starship. Coming relatively soon after Dennis McNally's biography of the Dead, these books between them shine a spotlight on the musical and social revolution that was spawned in the 1960's and for which San Francisco assumed the mantle of world leader.<br />Jeff Tamarkin, as others have alluded too, bases his book on his prior research and knowledge of the central characters involved. He has done a tremendous job in being fair to everyone which is to be lauded. He does not skip over the relationships between the band members and the cast of others who flit throught the story, he does not glorify nor condemn the use and abuse of chemicals nor does he try to do anyone down. His writing displays his skill with words which he has honed over the years in his other job and the end result is an excellent read, informative with an insider's view and an outsider's perception.<br />To me the most telling part of the tale is the story of Matthew Katz whom the author notes would not be interviewed but answered e-mails. That must be an extraordinary tale in of itself. Personally I find thet the author has a gift of bringing the characters alive so that we feel that we know them. Indeed there are many diehard fans who follow the band as it is presently constituted almost everywhere and are long past being considered starstruck.<br />This book is the story of a community. It places the band in the context of the times and yet at the same time portrays them as human beings as well as star musicians. It is a story of fame and closeness, of rivalry and emnity, of individuality and shared companionship. I am sure that some who read this will be shocked, perhaps awed, by some of the events contained within the book and that many will be fascinated by the twists and turns described therein.<br />Jeff Tamarkin has certainly succeeded with this labour of love in bringing the inside story of Jefferson Airplane to the world. His story deserves every success and it is a story that anyone interested in the era or the music should read.  At least twice.the band in the context of the times and yet at the same time portrays them as human beings as well as star musicians. It is a story of fame and closeness, of rivalry and emnity, of individuality and shared companionship. I am sure that some who read this will be shocked, perhaps awed, by some of the events contained within the book and that many will be fascinated by the twists and turns described therein.<br />Jeff Tamarkin has certainly succeeded with this labour of love in bringing the inside story of Jefferson Airplane to the world. His story deserves every success and it is a story that anyone interested in the era or the music should read.  At least twice.	2003-05-29
US	49834367	R1BEXN0DF620X8	1571818723	908058678	Conservative Radicalism: A Sociology of Conservative Party Youth Structures and Libertarianism 1970-1992	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Fortunes of liberalism in the Conservative Party	This is a fascinating account of the rise of libertarian ideas among the youth wing of the British Conservative party which took place concurrently with the rise to power of Mrs. Thatcher.<br />Timothy Evans does a great job, with an apparent insider's eye, of describing the events which took place and of also providing the rationale behind those events. His particular focus lies in the Federation of Conservative Students (FCS) and the relationships between individuals in that organisation and the many free market think tanks which gained prominence at the time mainly due to the evidence of economic failure confronting the ideas forged by the Keynsian consensus. One of the particular strengths of the book is the placing of events within the context of a change in attitudes among the young in general in rejecting the consensual ideas of the past and seeking progress through libertarian ideas cutting across all sections of community. He rightly recognises the nature of the post-modern society in ideas which allow for individuals to choose their own path.<br />The characters in the book are portrayed as bitter enemies even within the same party. I am constantly reminded of the anecdote of the novice Conservative MP who asks the old hand about dealings with the socialist enemy. The experienced man points out that the socialists are his opponents and it is some of those around him are his enemies. It seems however, that those involved were bitter opponents in a war of party political domination. In the end however, one wonders whether or not that really was the case and if indeed the battle was more about the means than the ends.<br />Timothy Evans book rightly belongs with some of the other accounts of the time especially 'Thinking the Unthinkable' although the two are not directly linked. Looking ahead to a history of the Adam Smith institute, an autobiography of Chris Tame and Brian Mickelthwaite, and the stories of Arthur Seldon and Ralph Harris, which will add considerable insight to the remarkable turn of events which transformed Britain from the 1970's.<br />My only reservation about this book actually lies in it's scope. Tim Evans only gives us half the story I am afraid. His focus on the FCS glosses over the developments which took place within the Young Conservatives at around the same time. Libertarian ideas were already around inside the Conservative Party. An account needs to be written of the Selsdon Group and the development of those ideas at every level to provide the complete picture. Perhaps Time Evans could write another book...derable insight to the remarkable turn of events which transformed Britain from the 1970's.<br />My only reservation about this book actually lies in it's scope. Tim Evans only gives us half the story I am afraid. His focus on the FCS glosses over the developments which took place within the Young Conservatives at around the same time. Libertarian ideas were already around inside the Conservative Party. An account needs to be written of the Selsdon Group and the development of those ideas at every level to provide the complete picture. Perhaps Time Evans could write another book...	2003-05-25
US	49834367	R2IKMDR4AIHEFI	0255364504	949108374	The Intellectuals and Socialism (Rediscovered Riches, 4)	Books	5	14	15	N	N	Dedicated to the Socialists in ALL parties!	It seems an opportune moment, with the United States poised to declare victory in the Second Gulf War, to review this little classic.<br />Hayek famously declared that his 'Road to Serfdom' was dedicated to socialists of all parties as he warned against the dangers of totalitarian rule for liberal(I use the word advisedly) democracies.<br />This pamphlet is a reprint of an 1949 essay of Hayek wherein he pursued the dictum of Keynes' contained with the 'General Theory of Employment, Interest and Money' about the influence of ideas.<br />In the essay Hayek questions the view that intellectuals are original thinkers. For him, original thinkers are few and far between but their ideas and views are percolated through society by the intellectuals. Those 'second-hand dealers in ideas' as Hayek referred to them are not necessarily the greatest scholars or the most brilliant minds but are adept at taking ideas and regurgitating them as teachers or journalists or through some other profession such that they pass through to the general public. Hayek contends that intelligent people consider intelligence to be more important than it is and in the world of men and thus tends to be more socialist orientated as those people view the market with disdain. He recognises that the market is a fundamental part of establishing value through individuals participating in a trial and error system of exchange which the intelligensia overlook but which directly affects them anyway. For Hayek, the battle of ideas was to be won, not by the original thinkers, but by the spread of classical liberal ideas by the class of intellectuals who could be convinced of the power of new, or perhaps not so new, ideas.<br />As Edwin Feulner, one of the editors, remarks, this article was a clarion call to those who espoused a classical liberal standpoint. Following on from this was the establishment of the free market think-tank, the Institute of Economic Affairs and other such institutions around the world. The story goes on to celebrate to some degree at least the success in bringing classical liberal ideas to the fore in many countries around the world and the success of some of those ideas.<br />So far, sort of, so good. A word of warning should be sounded. Whereas I agree with the aims of the paper I am circumspect about the current situation. To me there is more to classical liberal ideas than just a free economy. It does appear from my point of view that the battle of ideas is being won by neo-conservatives and authoritarians of all parties rather than by liberals. Others may disagree but the lesson I have taken from reading this marvellous little book again is that all who rally to the flag of Classical Liberalism need be extra vigilant in these uncertain times against the further development of neo-conservative and authoritarian ideas because they threaten not only the gains that have been made in the last fifty years but also many of the liberties we all cherish in our western democracies.<br />Liberals of the world, Unite!he story goes on to celebrate to some degree at least the success in bringing classical liberal ideas to the fore in many countries around the world and the success of some of those ideas.<br />So far, sort of, so good. A word of warning should be sounded. Whereas I agree with the aims of the paper I am circumspect about the current situation. To me there is more to classical liberal ideas than just a free economy. It does appear from my point of view that the battle of ideas is being won by neo-conservatives and authoritarians of all parties rather than by liberals. Others may disagree but the lesson I have taken from reading this marvellous little book again is that all who rally to the flag of Classical Liberalism need be extra vigilant in these uncertain times against the further development of neo-conservative and authoritarian ideas because they threaten not only the gains that have been made in the last fifty years but also many of the liberties we all cherish in our western democracies.<br />Liberals of the world, Unite!	2003-04-29
US	49834367	REWAZ24PPRHY4	0255364318	966017825	Octavia Hill and the Social Housing Debate: Essays and Letters by Octavia Hill (Rediscovered Riches)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Heaven Helps those Who Help Themselves.	This work is clearly a labour of love for the Editor, Robert Whelan. The tenor of the entire collection is one of undisguised admiration for Octavia Hill and her work, and clearly regards her position as one which is very apt for the present.<br />Readers should be aware of the context within which this collection was put together. There are two strands which together promote this restoration of Hill's essays and letters. In the first place there were the reforms to the public housing market instigated by the Conservative governments of Mrs. Thatcher and Mr. Major whereby sitting tenants were offered the prpoerty they were renting at a subsidised sale price thus allowing them to realise gains on the property while simultaneously allowing the local government off the hook for maintaining the properties and providing for a capital receipt for them. The remaining council tenants were also given the right to self government which reduced the power of local councils over their tenants and restored some rights to the individual property renters.<br />The second strand is the programme of the Institute of Economic Affais Health and Welfare Unit to realise a particular form of civic society characterized by an authoritarian state and moral code alongside an economically liberal economic system.<br />Seen in these terms, Octavia Hill's essays and letters not only strengthen her well earned reputation as one of a very few prominent Victorian women in a predominantly male orientated world who successfully managed a considerable property portfolio but also suggest that her outlook on the impovement of tenantkind is pertinent to tody's situation.<br />The letters have one, at least, not insignificant flaw. The main problem with the way that Octavia Hill ran her housing was that she would not accept badly behaved or delinquent tenants. By foccusing on her relatively better behaved tenants she had already won half of the battle. The message is clear however, for those who cannot comply completely, they are to be cast out into the wilderness. In Victorian Britain that was tough indeed. That aside, the letters do indicate that Hill believed in her quest to bring about an improvement in her tenants by somewhat rough justice. It brings to mind the welfare reforms introduced in the United States by the Clinto regime.<br />After reading this book I came away with a sad reflection on the way some of the Victorian social reformers dealt with those who did not have the education, financial capital or the opportunities as themselves. Perhaps there are better ways to improve mankind than those adopted by Octavia Hill. Still well worth a read for anyone interested in social history and the history of public policy.omply completely, they are to be cast out into the wilderness. In Victorian Britain that was tough indeed. That aside, the letters do indicate that Hill believed in her quest to bring about an improvement in her tenants by somewhat rough justice. It brings to mind the welfare reforms introduced in the United States by the Clinto regime.<br />After reading this book I came away with a sad reflection on the way some of the Victorian social reformers dealt with those who did not have the education, financial capital or the opportunities as themselves. Perhaps there are better ways to improve mankind than those adopted by Octavia Hill. Still well worth a read for anyone interested in social history and the history of public policy.	2003-04-28
US	49834367	R1WCN8Z3OVX44F	0255364784	419823139	Political Correctness and Public Finance (Studies in Education, 9)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	And WE'VE Got to get OURSELVES back to the Garden!	Dennis O'Keeffe is certainly one of those authors that readers love to hate or just love, as is your wont. You<br /> cannot just sit on the fence about his work and this excellent, certainly provocative and confrontational in the nicest senses of the words, book is no different in that regard.<br />The content of the book is targeted at the pervasive doctrine of political correctness which governs much of the public sectors of Britain and the United States. O'Keefe pulls no punches in his onslaght against those who peddle this mind numbing thought control which Orwell forecast in his novel '1984'.<br />O'Keefe sees the spread of political correctnes as being like ivy which spreads its roots everywhere in our societies and which gradually strangles and suffocates all competition. He sees it as a serious threat to a free society and argues that the solution is to open up the education systems in the two major western democracies to more private finance and competition. Insofar as that goes it is not a bad proposition. However, one should step back a little way and consider this in a broader context.<br />I came away from reading this book with a great sense of sadness. Written twenty years after the election of Mrs. Thatcher who was committed to rolling back the state, O'Keeffe's book is a painful reminder of how little has been accomplished in getting the state off the backs of the people. For sure there have been some successes such as the freeing of competitive forces in the UK economy, of some liberalisations and privatisations and the new found flexibility of the British labour force which has transformed the economy's prospects. That is less than half the story however. Other IEA publications tell the tale of the betrayal of the voucher which would have given some choice to those in society who have least choice of all. Local government, central government departments and the great agencies have changed to some extent but still remain as bastions of centralising, standardising, \\"socialist\\" thought.<br />It is a sad fact that the promise of the Thatcher years to set the people free has not been met. Essentially we live in a social democrat world where the economy is as free as the government would like it to be but only so far and no further.<br />This book should remind everyone who believes in the freedom of the individual that we all need to get back to basics. The case for freedom still needs to be made and that complacency is not an option. Millions of people are still waiting for freedom to touch them where it really matters in their lives not just in their electricity and gas bills.standardising, \\"socialist\\" thought.<br />It is a sad fact that the promise of the Thatcher years to set the people free has not been met. Essentially we live in a social democrat world where the economy is as free as the government would like it to be but only so far and no further. <br />This book should remind everyone who believes in the freedom of the individual that we all need to get back to basics. The case for freedom still needs to be made and that complacency is not an option. Millions of people are still waiting for freedom to touch them where it really matters in their lives not just in their electricity and gas bills.	2003-04-24
US	49834367	R2GVEA2KS1TLHS	0255365314	35518882	A Tribute to Peter Bauer	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Tribute to a Great Champion of the Poor	Almost a year ago Lord (Peter) Bauer died, 86 years young. The Classical Liberal world lost one of it's leading lights and yet at the same time, across the world millions of people do not know that one of their strongest supporters is no longer with us.<br />Peter Bauer was a man in a million. His work on the economics of less developed countries led him to the belief that the best policies to help the people in those countries are those that allow freedom and enterprise to flourish or as Adam Smith would have it, to truck, barter and exchange. Sounds reasonable? Well perhaps now but back in the 1960s and '70s this was akin to heresy. Bauer's voice was as one crying in the wilderness and he was denigrated throughout the economics profession. Bauer committed what was thought to be a cardinal sin in those days which was to argue the case against aid, a case which has now largely been won.<br />Bauer persisted with his view and his work despite the enormous pressure of the opposition and in the end he prevailed. He dissented against much of the orthodoxy of the corpus of knowledge of development economics especially in the area of population. He supported the individual against the state and recognised the capacity of the individual to make the right decisions for themselves and for their families not just in the short term but also in the medium and long terms and would make better decisions that the governments might.<br />Peter Bauer was a brave man and not just intellectually but also physically, standing firm in the face of strong opposition from student protests against his carefully thought out views.<br />Not a man to suffer fools, gladly or otherwise, Peter Bauer was a consumate seeker of truth, a scholar and a gentleman who would think the unthinkable and use his finely honed skills to substantiate his conclusions.<br />This is a wonderful little book which plays a fitting tribute to a remarkable thinker who deserves greater recognition inthe pantheon of the great economists than he has achieved so far. Any serious student of developing countries should invest in a copy of this book as an introduction to the thought of an economic colossus.great economists than he has achieved so far. Any serious student of developing countries should invest in a copy of this book as an introduction to the thought of an economic colossus.	2003-04-24
US	49834367	R351MU8VWIWB2M	0255364512	536471424	Should Health Screening Be Private? (Choice in Welfare)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Doctor Knows Best?	Jim Thornton's excellent little book raises many issues for anyone who reads it.<br />To summarize his argument briefly what he is suggesting is that whilst there is some value in some of the screenings which patients undertake, for the most part they are unnecessary and should not be included as part of basic healthcare provision that is to say the patient must pay for them.<br />Certainly a controversial view it is clear that there will be considerable hostility to it from within the healthcare providing community. Having said that it is also clear that anyone should pause for thought and consider the argument carefully.<br />Whilst many would argue that the cost of saving a life cannot be quantified that does not mean that subjecting every patient to these screenings is justified. For example the cost of providing all of the screenings detracts from other spending in other areas. Even the most convinced proponent of additional spending on healthcare, or resources as they prefer to say so that the whole question of money can be whited out, realises that the demand for funds is infinite and so choices must be made. The author makes an excellent argument based on the results of screenings why the use of monies on them is a waste of scarce resources.<br />Others will contend that medical judgements are the perogative of the medical professional and should not be made on the basis of accounts. This argument is spomewhat spurious given that the medical establishment hold a position of assymetrical power vis a vis the customer, sorry patient. Customer is too tacky a term.<br />Screenings are part of the armoury of the medical professional but they should be part of the partnership between the professional and the person.<br />Underneath all of this lies a political imbalance. In Britain, the patient is in hock to the medical establishment who are highly unionised and who hold almost monopoly knowledge power. The majority of the people are denied choice over their medical profesionals and in most cases have little form of redress against errors or abuse. In the United States, again the medical establishment is unionised but they have less knowledge power. The patients however in the main have little power due to having to belong to company insurance plans where there is severe downward pressure on costs and yet for the insurance companies there are constant rising costs for many reasons including, but not restricted to, malpractise suits. Again the individual patient has little real choice.<br />Thornton argues, correctly in my view, that if the state were to end the provision of public screening then the screenings would not go away as they could, and would be carried out privately. This would free resources/cash to be spent in other areas and allow the individual to make a choice in consultation with their healthcare professional.<br />This admirable little book raises some fundamental issues which have a validity across the world about where healthcare is going. Soon, the continually rising cost of healthcare combined with increasing consumer demand for healthcare products will force governments to take a fundamental look at the future direction of healthcare. To me this book suggests a more knowledgeable and empowered consumer working in partnership with a medical professional to make good choices which will be preventative as well as curative and where the costs of action will be visible and transparent. How that is to come about is another story for another bedtime.profesionals and in most cases have little form of redress against errors or abuse. In the United States, again the medical establishment is unionised but they have less knowledge power. The patients however in the main have little power due to having to belong to company insurance plans where there is severe downward pressure on costs and yet for the insurance companies there are constant rising costs for many reasons including, but not restricted to, malpractise suits. Again the individual patient has little real choice.<br />Thornton argues, correctly in my view, that if the state were to end the provision of public screening then the screenings would not go away as they could, and would be carried out privately. This would free resources/cash to be spent in other areas and allow the individual to make a choice in consultation with their healthcare professional.<br />This admirable little book raises some fundamental issues which have a validity across the world about where healthcare is going. Soon, the continually rising cost of healthcare combined with increasing consumer demand for healthcare products will force governments to take a fundamental look at the future direction of healthcare. To me this book suggests a more knowledgeable and empowered consumer working in partnership with a medical professional to make good choices which will be preventative as well as curative and where the costs of action will be visible and transparent. How that is to come about is another story for another bedtime.	2003-03-01
US	49834367	RW7JRRK07QZIV	0255364520	711088357	An End to Welfare Rights: The Rediscovery of Independence (Choice in Welfare)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Heaven helps those who help themselves.	Another book on welfare reform. Dr. Green invokes a long tradition of writers who care about those less able to help themselves but who believes that the best way to help is to help people to help themselves not merely to give handouts.<br />If this book were only about this then I would heartily endorse it and probably award it five starts. Unfortunately there is another issue which is cleverly incorporated into the text but is really a distinct issue in it's own right which is the thorny issue of what is euphemistically termed lifestyle choice.<br />The book has much to commend it. Clearly the author has looked into this very seriously and drawn heavily on his work on mutual and friendly societies in arriving at his conclusions. He makes a good case for the ending of the payment of welfare benefits as we know them and the substitution of government assistance whilst restoring independence. There is further work to be done in this area and, in particular, the transitional arrangements to that position but generally speaking he sets out a good case. It seems to me too that there is scope aplenty for some serious research into the costs of social administration involved in taxing incomes and earnings and the payment of social benefits out to millions. How can we as post-modern societies continue to rob Peter to pay Peter and Paul too? However, I digress.<br />The issue of lifestyle choice is clearly an anathema to the author who sets out his stall for the restoration of the traditional family, a theme which provides a unifying link to the publications of the Health &amp; Welfare Unit now CIVITAS. He attempts to convince libertarians that the family is an essential prerequisite to the maintainance of a free society but does not address any of the fundamental issues which confront such a position. The argument is a crucial one and one which is at the crux of the debate about what sort of society we want. Yhere is a rather unholy alliance of ethical socialists, traditional conservatives and the Christian right who together are campaigning for the restoration of the family as a centrepiece of government and state policies.<br />This is not the place to debate that issue but in a way it underpins Green's position. His thesis seems to rely on the unstated assumption that for his scheme to work it requires a traditional family structure of the single breadwinner and a stay at home parent. At a stroke this would cut down significantly on the payment of welfare benefits, reduce the demands for childcare and have important implications for all other aspects of social policy.<br />The problem with this assumption is that it would require the equivalent of putting the genie back in the bottle. However, while this would be popular in some sections of the policy wonk community it would probably dismay many in business who have come to realise the important and growing position of women in the workforce. That said one can conjecture a future in which it is the woman of the household who goes out to work whilst the man remains at home and rears the children.<br />Food for thought but then one should be careful what one wishes for!nal conservatives and the Christian right who together are campaigning for the restoration of the family as a centrepiece of government and state policies.<br />This is not the place to debate that issue but in a way it underpins Green's position. His thesis seems to rely on the unstated assumption that for his scheme to work it requires a traditional family structure of the single breadwinner and a stay at home parent. At a stroke this would cut down significantly on the payment of welfare benefits, reduce the demands for childcare and have important implications for all other aspects of social policy.<br />The problem with this assumption is that it would require the equivalent of putting the genie back in the bottle. However, while this would be popular in some sections of the policy wonk community it would probably dismay many in business who have come to realise the important and growing position of women in the workforce. That said one can conjecture a future in which it is the woman of the household who goes out to work whilst the man remains at home and rears the children.<br />Food for thought but then one should be careful what one wishes for!	2003-02-18
US	49834367	R1TIG38OOYM0GF	0255364393	796514274	Before Beveridge - Welfare Before the Welfare State (Choice in Welfare 47)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A Welcome Addition to the Literature	This book sits rather oddly with others in the Institute of Economic Affairs Choice in Welfare Series. Whilst the sub-title 'Welfare before the Welfare State' suggests that this is an account of self-help swept away by the state the content is more contested arguing that the self-help which was available was confined to the skilled and semi-skilled working class rather than to all of the working classes at the time. This point of view is not particularly challenged, a fact which, given the genesis of the project, is surprising to say the least.<br />Before Beveridge is a welcome addition to the literature about welfare before the state intervened in Britain. Contrary to the establishment history books which used to argue that the benevolent state stepped into a welfare vacuum, a number of studies have challenged this claim with books and scholarly articles demonstrating that the working classes were more than capable of providing education and welfare for their families by themselves as individuals and in groups long before the administrative machine moved in.<br />In this slim volume it seems that the editor and the staff at the IEA Health and Welfare Unit have rather abdicated the case for individual enterprise in welfare provision to those authors who put forward the view that in reality this provision was available to a select number of the working classes and the unorganised and the poor were not able to avail themselves of the opportunity. The so-called liberals appear to stand aside in the face of the attack and do not attempt to join battle with those propositions. I find the papers of Whiteside, Harris, Vincent and Thane to be particularly well researched and argued as well as persuasive given the paucity of David Green's paper especially.<br />The weakness of the writers who suggest that there was indeed a need for the intervention of the state in bringing welfare provision to the neediest in British society is the determination to overlook the evidence that many of the disenfranchised working classes who did not belong to either friendly societies or trades unions were determined to provide education for their children regardless of their personal circumstances. The fact that individuals of limited means were capable of identifying, by themselves, often without any education of their own, options for the betterment of their children over the longer term and were prepared to forego current onsumption to pay for it speaks volumes which significantly undermines the position supporting the need for state involvement.<br />This is a very thought provoking book which adds substantially to the lierature and which colours the debate about welfare provision more vividly than before. I would heartily recommend the book to sixth form and college students of history and social policy as well as practitioners of the black arts of social policy and policy-makers in general.at many of the disenfranchised working classes who did not belong to either friendly societies or trades unions were determined to provide education for their children regardless of their personal circumstances. The fact that individuals of limited means were capable of identifying, by themselves, often without any education of their own, options for the betterment of their children over the longer term and were prepared to forego current onsumption to pay for it speaks volumes which significantly undermines the position supporting the need for state involvement.<br />This is a very thought provoking book which adds substantially to the lierature and which colours the debate about welfare provision more vividly than before. I would heartily recommend the book to sixth form and college students of history and social policy as well as practitioners of the black arts of social policy and policy-makers in general.	2003-02-08
US	49834367	R306ZNIZS6XIHE	0255364393	796514274	Before Beveridge - Welfare Before the Welfare State (Choice in Welfare 47)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A welcome addition to the literature	This book sits rather oddly with others in the Institute of Economic Affairs Choice in Welfare Series. Whilst the sub-title 'Welfare before the Welfare State' suggests that this is an account of self-help swept away by the state the content is more contested arguing that the self-help which was available was confined to the skilled and semi-skilled working class rather than to all of the working classes at the time. This point of view is not particularly challenged, a fact which, given the genesis of the project, is surprising to say the least.<br />Before beveridge is a welcome addition to the literature about welfare before the state intervened in Britain. Contrary to the establishment history books which used to argue that the benevolent state stepped into a welfare vacuum, a number of studies have challenged this claim with books and scholarly articles demonstrating that the working classes were more than capable of providing education and welfare for their families by themselves as individuals and in groups long before the administrative machine moved in.<br />In this slim volume it seems that the editor and the staff at the IEA Health and Welfare Unit have rather abdicated the case for individual enterprise in welfare provision to those authors who put forward the view that in reality this provision was available to a select number of the working classes and the unorganised and the poor were not able to avail themselves of the opportunity. The so-called liberals appear to stand aside in the face of the attack and do not attempt to join battle with those propositions. I find the papers of Whiteside, Harris, Vincent and Thane to be particularly well researched and argued as well as persuasive given the paucity of David Green's paper especially.<br />The weakness of the writers who suggest that there was indeed a need for the intervention of the state in bringing welfare provision to the neediest in British society is the determination to overlook the evidence that many of the disenfranchised working classes who did not belong to either friendly societies or trades unions were determined to provide education for their children regardless of their personal circumstances. The fact that individuals of limited means were capable of identifying, by themselves, often without any education of their own, options for the betterment of their children over the longer term and were prepared to forego current onsumption to pay for it speaks volumes which significantly undermines the position supporting the need for state involvement.<br />This is a very thought provoking book which adds substantially to the lierature and which colours the debate about welfare provision more vividly than before. I would heartily recommend the book to sixth form and college students of history and social policy as well as practitioners of the black arts of social policy and policy-makers in general.	2003-02-03
US	49834367	R2LNR2I425SQBG	0255364385	900446059	Is There a Third Way? - Essays on the Changing Direction of Socialist Thought (Choice in Welfare)	Books	5	0	2	N	N	Wherever you Go...There You Are!	The title of this book is really a misnomer. Rather than essays on the changing direction of socialist thought the direction given by Michael Novak rather reeks of \\"we're all social democrats now\\".<br />Michael Novak has achieved some remarkable fame or notoriety depending on your own perspective as the leader of the Capitalism as Moral sect of conservatism in the United States. His major book, the Spirit of Democratic Capitalism, articulates his case for the morality of markets and he has been feted throught the world for his contribution.<br />This book articulates his reformist vision of the welfare state and in this he finds common cause with the other contributors to this slim volume. Each of the authors accept the basic view that socialism as it was practised in the Soviet Union et al has gone and that increasingly, countries throughout the world are turning to some form of capitalism. Reviewer's Note: There appear's to be a conspiracy of silence among those who are loudest in the capitalism is victorious debate about why Africa has not in general gone along the capitalist route. Indeed Zimbabwe has travelled almost totally in the opposite direction.<br />Another common theme between Novak and the other's is the acceptance of the need for the State. Far be it for me to question this acceptance but rather simplistically I thought that conservatives were for at least a minimal state as opposed to the more libertarian case for none at all. Perhaps I have read Novak incorrectly but he appears to be satisfied to keep the state as we know it and reform it, a stance shared b y the so-called socialist authors.<br />But then, for Novak, the state is an instrument of the democratically elected representatives of the people. An instrument which should use it's power to achieve certain political and social objectives. While he decries the so-called breakdown in social society and yearns for the return of stay at home mothers while the married father brings home the weekly paycheck and where there is more order and authority in the world, Novak is signifying the common cause that authoritarian conservatives like him have with the descendents of ethical socialism in Britain.<br />This book is more about getting policy formers to change the direction of their policies to bring about a new social order. It is about convincing people that all of this freedom that we seeem to be accruing is bad for us if we do not use it with responsibility. It is a project which hijacks liberty in the name of restoring civil society but which requires fewer choices rather than more. In this idyll which never really existed along with that wonderful concept of merrie rural englande but which conservatives want us to return. The American equivalent is no better a sort of Christian conservative equivalent of the Stepford Wives.<br />This book represents the jealousy and resentement felt by Conservative elites for the growing ability of everyone to exercise choice in the world where before that capacity was limited to the priviledged few. It is a blatant attempt to convince the powerful middle class voter that the only way to protect their position is to restore some order to the world. In fact the more I read books such as this the more I recall the essential Victorian society where people said one thing and did another. A society which could not talk about sex but where prostitution was rife and confined by the customers as far as they could to the ghettos of the poor.<br />To it's credit it is a well written book and Novak demonstrates his skill as an author and the ability to marshall his arguements to achieve a clearly defined objective. It is certainly a book that everyone should read...and BE WARNED BY.paycheck and where there is more order and authority in the world, Novak is signifying the common cause that authoritarian conservatives like him have with the descendents of ethical socialism in Britain.<br />This book is more about getting policy formers to change the direction of their policies to bring about a new social order. It is about convincing people that all of this freedom that we seeem to be accruing is bad for us if we do not use it with responsibility. It is a project which hijacks liberty in the name of restoring civil society but which requires fewer choices rather than more. In this idyll which never really existed along with that wonderful concept of merrie rural englande but which conservatives want us to return. The American equivalent is no better a sort of Christian conservative equivalent of the Stepford Wives.<br />This book represents the jealousy and resentement felt by Conservative elites for the growing ability of everyone to exercise choice in the world where before that capacity was limited to the priviledged few. It is a blatant attempt to convince the powerful middle class voter that the only way to protect their position is to restore some order to the world. In fact the more I read books such as this the more I recall the essential Victorian society where people said one thing and did another. A society which could not talk about sex but where prostitution was rife and confined by the customers as far as they could to the ghettos of the poor.<br />To it's credit it is a well written book and Novak demonstrates his skill as an author and the ability to marshall his arguements to achieve a clearly defined objective. It is certainly a book that everyone should read...and BE WARNED BY.	2003-01-25
US	49834367	R19UG1T9M0YNUS	0255364377	876976825	How to Create a Competitive Market in Pensions: The International Lessons (Choice in Welfare)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Addressing the Pensions Crisis	First, dear reader, let me warn you about the level of difficulty you will discover upon reading this book. While the subject matter is not the most compelling to begin with, reading this book will not help the case. The content is certainly worthwhile if you persevere but it is written in a manner akin to the transformation of a Ph.D thesis into a text book.<br />Having said that I awarded this text with five stars because it certainly sets out in sometimes a little too much detail the state of pensions from a selected group of countries around the world. The author writes as a certified expert having sat on a commission in his native New Zealand investigating the subject. While New Zealand may be a small, relatively sparsely populated, country it has also been one of the most foward looking and experimental democracies in the world and one of the most ground-breaking nations that others have not been slow to follow.<br />Littlewood's book follows in a great tradition of work done by that free market pathfinder, Arthur Seldon, at the Institute of Economic Affairs in London. He sets out the history of state provided pensions and the context in which they were developed before setting out the basic principles of pension provision which he believes can be agreed upon by the vast majority of political parties and other interested groups and individuals.<br />He explores the various schemes and notes their basic similarities of the features of the schemes and the benefits that they provide. He also looks at pension scheme funding and the implications for the public purse, aspects to which he returns throughout the book.<br />Later on he sets out, again in considerable detail, a set of proposals and implications which he believes will adress the various states of provision in the different countries highlighted. In doing so he attends to the problems and objections thrown up by the various protaganists in the debate and tries to meet each of them head on and within the context and the development of his arguments in the book.<br />This book, written in 1998, is a very timely and important contribution to the debate on the economic impact of the changing economic and demographic circumstances which we face now and in the years ahead. The author refers at one point in his text to the way in which various reports of his committee's findings were published at certain times during it's lifetime. One feature of these reports were the edited versions produced for the layman. Im my humble opinion this book deserves to reach a wider audience than policy makers and pension professionals but it is a little dense and technical even for an educated generalist. Perhaps the Institute of Economic Affairs could use their good offices to suggest to CIVITAS that they might seek some sponsorship to draw attention to this request.ontext and the development of his arguments in the book.<br />This book, written in 1998, is a very timely and important contribution to the debate on the economic impact of the changing economic and demographic circumstances which we face now and in the years ahead. The author refers at one point in his text to the way in which various reports of his committee's findings were published at certain times during it's lifetime. One feature of these reports were the edited versions produced for the layman. Im my humble opinion this book deserves to reach a wider audience than policy makers and pension professionals but it is a little dense and technical even for an educated generalist. Perhaps the Institute of Economic Affairs could use their good offices to suggest to CIVITAS that they might seek some sponsorship to draw attention to this request.	2003-01-23
US	49834367	R3DQTON6M9444W	0201489333	221281919	Jobshift: How To Prosper In A Workplace Without Jobs	Books	3	19	21	N	N	Yesterday never really mattered tomorrow never really came	I first read this book some seven years ago as a text for a class intended to help graduating students prepare themselves for the world of work. Interestingly one of those graduates was intending to work in a start up business with digital cameras which he believed would emerge as the dominant force in the picture business. Probably telling the future is not a good business to be in.<br />Here in Northern New Jersey everyone knew, and still knows, all about downsizing and organizational flattening and outsourcing. Since the collapse of the tech-bubble, many of those independent contractors are now looking for work and escaping the computer field alltogether in the face of falling wage rates, excess supply and new entrants from college who expect a lot less!<br />Revisiting this book gives one the opportunity to rexamine it's claims and, not surprisingly, finds them lacking. To be fair, much of what the originator describes has come to pass but not in the way that he suggests.<br />The main lesson that I come away with from this book is that markets are so powerful that the competitive environment determines the shape of the organization. Obviously, some would say but this is only half of the story. Combine the power of markets which is, after all, only the result of individuals exercising choices, with a proactive government and you get a pretty unstoppable force. If the dollar is high then imports are [inexpensive] as compared to domestic goods which puts intense competitive pressure on companies who then must cut costs. Add to the mix a policy of a free trade area as NAFTA and a competitive labor market and there is even more pressure on costs. Finally have a boyant stock market and increased wealth and you have lots of venture capital looking for profit. The result, falling unemployment with little inflation and downward intense pressure on costs leading to more business. The picture is muddied somewhat by rising benefits costs but they become a force against rising costs too,<br />What I am describing is the pressure on business to focus on their core activities and float off internal activities which can be done by service companies contracted for the purpose. Wage bill too high - make workers contractors who then have to pay for their own benefits or better still get the states to introduce basic minimum health care schemes.<br />This nirvana of the dejobbed economy never really existed. Sure there are more small businesses and self-employed, sure there is more flexibility among the workforce but there is also compulsion, workfare, for the unemployed as well as the requirement for many families to work two, three or more jobs to make ends meet.<br />Hayek the Nobel prizewinner foresaw the person described in this book many years ago as did his mentor Mises. To be successful they argued the individual must market themselves as a self-entrepreneur. Very true.<br />This book is an excellent description of a possible future in the light of developments in business at the time. The author is to be commended for the clarity of his thought and exposition. However, he ignores the bigger picture and the implications of a global economy and powerful, interventionist governments. Perhaps he would like to write an update to this book in the light of the events of the last seven years.ing costs too,<br />What I am describing is the pressure on business to focus on their core activities and float off internal activities which can be done by service companies contracted for the purpose. Wage bill too high - make workers contractors who then have to pay for their own benefits or better still get the states to introduce basic minimum health care schemes.<br />This nirvana of the dejobbed economy never really existed. Sure there are more small businesses and self-employed, sure there is more flexibility among the workforce but there is also compulsion, workfare, for the unemployed as well as the requirement for many families to work two, three or more jobs to make ends meet.<br />Hayek the Nobel prizewinner foresaw the person described in this book many years ago as did his mentor Mises. To be successful they argued the individual must market themselves as a self-entrepreneur. Very true.<br />This book is an excellent description of a possible future in the light of developments in business at the time. The author is to be commended for the clarity of his thought and exposition. However, he ignores the bigger picture and the implications of a global economy and powerful, interventionist governments. Perhaps he would like to write an update to this book in the light of the events of the last seven years.	2003-01-19
US	49834367	R1IFE4INSP8BIY	0684852861	48882658	First, Break All the Rules: What the World's Greatest Managers Do Differently	Books	5	7	8	N	Y	Within you and Without You!	I finished reading this book a few days ago and have been mulling over what I have learned from it. I think that this must be one of the best management books that I have read mainly because it seems to me that what the authors are telling us is that being yourself and learning from what is around us is the best way to become a great manager and/or a great leader. The insight that the researchers provide from their extensive interviews is that the personality of the individual and that person;s individual traits are the most crucial factors in determining success, however one may wish to define it.<br />The other main conclusion I draw from the book is that there are certain qualities which any individual must develop and enhance if their relationships with subordinates are to be rewarding and productive. If we view management in the narrow sense of achieving through others, it is clear that this can be done through either coercion, persuasion or, if you like, enlightened self-interest. Coercion leads to exit and diminishing returns while persuasion involves bargaining and does not inspire true loyalty yet sows the seeds of unfairness and non-compliance. Enlightened self-interest potentially leads to the most satisfactory results, of high output, individual rewards such as self-esteem, possibly promotion, but greatest of all, customer loyalty.<br />In my humble opinion, the success of any business depends on it's people. This is more true today than ever before particularly if you view the employment relationship as one which is built upon knowledge. Whether that knowledge is of processes, or the creation of ideas or the implementation of ideas or whether it is embodied in the sense of the genuinely warm, interested, employee who provides excellent customer service, knowledge in the post-modern economy is a key determinant. Human beings are a wonderful species for their capacity to create and discover new knowledge!.<br />Getting back to this book, to me the authors have latched on to a few fundamental truths about management which the best managers have discovered for themselves over the years. Coaching and developing employees to be themselves and to give of their best is the ultimate key to development. Allowing people to try and allowing them to make mistakes and learn from their mistakes must be one of the best ways of helping people to help themselves. Carl Menger discovered this fundamental insight as an integral part of economics over a century ago and indeed,  the trial and error process is a basic building block of the market economy which is also a discovery process.<br />There are many useful aspects to this book which are all very worthwhile in our search to be better managers or leaders. For me it has been crucial in turning my gaze inwards to answer these questions about myself before I look outwards to implement in my dealings with others.<br />I would highly recommend this book to anyone interested in management and to teachers and in fact anyone looking for a self-help book.have latched on to a few fundamental truths about management which the best managers have discovered for themselves over the years. Coaching and developing employees to be themselves and to give of their best is the ultimate key to development. Allowing people to try and allowing them to make mistakes and learn from their mistakes must be one of the best ways of helping people to help themselves. Carl Menger discovered this fundamental insight as an integral part of economics over a century ago and indeed,  the trial and error process is a basic building block of the market economy which is also a discovery process.<br />There are many useful aspects to this book which are all very worthwhile in our search to be better managers or leaders. For me it has been crucial in turning my gaze inwards to answer these questions about myself before I look outwards to implement in my dealings with others.<br />I would highly recommend this book to anyone interested in management and to teachers and in fact anyone looking for a self-help book.	2003-01-10
US	49834367	R35CAXX5DCMOBT	0255364369	862582612	The Fragmenting Family: Does It Matter? (Choice in Welfare)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Why conservatives are against freedom.	As you read through this masterful yet succinct examination of the state of the family in Britain today, you are struck, in part at least that despite the social upheaval in Britain in the post war years, much of our social structure remains intact.<br />Despite the many freedoms won by women and by men particularly in the last forty years or so, what is more surprising than anything else is how conservative Britain has turned out to be. True, the work excludes factors such as race and ethnicity as well as immigration and the impact these may have had on the overall figures, but despite everything, to a degree, the traditional behaviours of marriage hold good to a great extent.<br />Before anyone should think that I am a supporter of this conservative picture, let me assure readers that I am not. While I think that the study here is a good one, I also am of the belief that the notion of a traditional family is an artificial construct which does not have real meaning.<br />For instance, it is only about 150 years agao roughly speaking that women were considered to be mere chattels once they became married or put it another way, what is mine is mine and what is hers (including her) is mine too.Female sexuality was under male control as was reproduction. Divorce laws were changed such that women could divorce their husbands. The point here is that this artifact of the family, far from it being something to aspire to has been endowed with a mythological significance which cannot be supported. The breadwinning husband is a construct to, denying women the right to work and the right to financial independence. The conclusion I draw from this is that diversity is good and that all men and women should be free to make their own choices.<br />I find that the conservatives of all parties who purport to produce evidence to establish the suffering of children and the handicaps in life that they must endure as a result of the lack of married parents are also setting up a straw man. To be sure suffering children are found in many families but often that suffering is a result of insufficient income. The benefits of proper family life are bound to win through if the comparator is a time when most people were in marriages whether they liked it or not. It would not be surprising if mothers in bad marriages devoted their time and energies to their children.<br />My biggest objection to this book lies in the dogmatic approach set out by Patricia Morgan who seems to be on a crusade against what she terms the atomistic society. This surely must be a topic all on it's own but it does seem to me that the opponents of freedom and liberty are casting their eyes back to a golden age of marriage where none existed. Education is rightly seen as a liberator for women who are as good, if not better than men in many respects. Why should they not have the same freedoms and responsibilities as men for all aspects of their lives. The question really is one of choice. Everyone should have the ability to decide for themselves what they do given the facts available.<br />In this case, social structure will be determined by those choices and we should be prepared for change whether people like Morgan want to deride it as post-modern or not. The conservatives case is too simplistic and seeks to use emotion and blackmail to return us to an age where men are subjugated to men. For myself, I want to see a time when all people are free to make the most of any opportunities which may be presented to them regardless of sex or colour.<br />Every student or interested observer of society should read this book and make up their own minds.n. To be sure suffering children are found in many families but often that suffering is a result of insufficient income. The benefits of proper family life are bound to win through if the comparator is a time when most people were in marriages whether they liked it or not. It would not be surprising if mothers in bad marriages devoted their time and energies to their children.<br />My biggest objection to this book lies in the dogmatic approach set out by Patricia Morgan who seems to be on a crusade against what she terms the atomistic society. This surely must be a topic all on it's own but it does seem to me that the opponents of freedom and liberty are casting their eyes back to a golden age of marriage where none existed. Education is rightly seen as a liberator for women who are as good, if not better than men in many respects. Why should they not have the same freedoms and responsibilities as men for all aspects of their lives. The question really is one of choice. Everyone should have the ability to decide for themselves what they do given the facts available.<br />In this case, social structure will be determined by those choices and we should be prepared for change whether people like Morgan want to deride it as post-modern or not. The conservatives case is too simplistic and seeks to use emotion and blackmail to return us to an age where men are subjugated to men. For myself, I want to see a time when all people are free to make the most of any opportunities which may be presented to them regardless of sex or colour.<br />Every student or interested observer of society should read this book and make up their own minds.	2002-12-21
US	49834367	R2PKU7Y0XLG5RM	0255364334	672472186	Benefit Dependency: How Welfare Undermines Independence (The Iea Health & Welfare Unit Choice in Welfare Series Number 41)	Books	4	0	1	N	N	How the state undermines the individual	Dr. Green does an exceptionally admirable job here in undermining the official figures which are supposed to measure poverty in the United Kingdom. He sets out, in clear and concise detail how the figures reflect something quite different from poverty as the average man or woman on the Clapham omnibus might know it. He goes on to show how poverty has come to mean some sort of reliance on the Nanny state where more and more people receive some sort of handout from the state. From this it follows that people are undermined by their reliance on the state and the culture of the victim has replaced self-help. He concludes his work by setting out how earlier generations sought to help the poor by encouraging and educating them to help themselves rather than just dipping a hand in the pocket and giving people cash.<br />Shifting our view away from the domestic scene for a moment, it is interesting to contrast this view with the dominant view among aid workers in less developed countries. One often hears charities talk about teaching people to fish etc and the impact that will have on the survival and future development of threatened people's. Yet in the developed world the cry is always for more resources.<br />Green's work is really part of a bigger picture. The sad fact is that in the so-called developed countries the state has taken over the rearing and development of people. Through the device of dealing with poverty the state has extended it's tentacles to reach almost everywhere in society. Income transfers have shifted resources through a bureaucracy which has grown apace from all sections of society to other sections. State education and healthcare, with their attendant administrations, have brought almost everyone within it's grasp. With every increased or extended benefit, with every increased tax break, opposition is weakened. The economics of politics helps us to understand this process.<br />Green raises a standard around which free thinking men and women might gather. Alas, there are very few who can rally without declaring an interest. Like drug addicts, we all may want this to stop but we need our financial fixes so much that we cannot endure to go without because it is so hard. Our politicians, even those with convictions , have a vested interest in maintaining the status quo or even expanding and deepening the role and extent of the state.<br />This book does a great service in bringing this issue to the wider public. It is long on description and short on prescription. What the world needs is men and women not mice. How are we to travel to an independent and living future? That is the question which must be answered.t gather. Alas, there are very few who can rally without declaring an interest. Like drug addicts, we all may want this to stop but we need our financial fixes so much that we cannot endure to go without because it is so hard. Our politicians, even those with convictions , have a vested interest in maintaining the status quo or even expanding and deepening the role and extent of the state.<br />This book does a great service in bringing this issue to the wider public. It is long on description and short on prescription. What the world needs is men and women not mice. How are we to travel to an independent and living future? That is the question which must be answered.	2002-11-10
US	49834367	RTB73D86TFWYN	0255363990	375425761	From Welfare to Work: Lessons from America (Choice in Welfare)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Some lessons are not meant to be learned	I began reading this book with an open mind and as I delved deeper into the arguments that Lawrence Mead puts so well I began to have serious doubts. Doubts about the whole idea of welfare as he knows it and doubts as to why a think tank like the Institute of Economic Affairs would be publishing such a book under it's imprint.<br />This book does an admirable job about why welfare rolls have fallen in recent years, mainly under the Clinton Presidency in the United States. As Mead makes clear, the impetus for such falling roles does not lie with the President but rather is the result of actions at the state level which accelerated by changes in funding from the federal government under Clinton. I do not fault the account which Mead sets out. In fact as a public policy book it is first rate. Whether I agree upon the premise upon which the boo, and indeed the social policy which it annunciates is another matter. Clearly an active benefit administration foccussing on the weakest and most vulnerable (but also the largest section) of the welfare rolls will have an impact but the fundamental point must be to question whether the reduction in rolls will have a permanent effect in the longer term.<br />As a non-specialist in this area, two errors occur to me about the fundamental analysis. Mead argues that the poor are in poverty because they do not work normal hours. I might suggest that there is some work to be done in this area to justify that assertion. Anecdotal evidence from the New York metropolitan area suggests that lower paid workers, far from not working normal hours are having to maintain several part-time jobs in order to raise their income to even subsistence level, never mind above it. The main cause it would seem is the fact that employers can avoid the costs of benefits if their labour force works less than the plan defined hours which constitute full-time employment. On the flip side of this, productivity is higher among full-timers because they work so many more hours than the minimum for full-time. In this manner the costs of health care for the part-time worker is shifted from the employer to either the individual, or increasingly to the state.<br />Compunding this error is the fact that welfare reform is directed at welfare mothers who usually find work in the low paid end of the jobs spectrum but who's principal deterrent to work is often available childcare. In this area there are considerable issues, particularly in the US, of insurance costs, to name just one, most of which fall in daytime hours.<br />It is the focus on welfare mothers which, to me at least, is another fundamental error. Without being judgemental it seems that these women suffer from their lack of judgement or unknown circumstances initially for the years they will have to rear their child. Clearly the cost of welfare is higher for two than for one so by definition more welfare is spent on them and this in turn will lead to a greter reduction in costs once work is found. However, the question must be asked as to whether or not behaviours will be changed in the future. As men who father children are less likely to be forced into paying work which will be sufficient to meet their needs plus childcare the answer must tend towards the negative.<br />My fundamental objection to this book does not rest on these errors or to the differing sets of social administration and benefits that exist in the United Kingdom compared to the United States. It does seem remiss that an Institute based on the principles of the free market should commission a work which has as it's basic idea that a state agency can work better than before and can reduce general expenditures on taxation. Fundamental opposition to government in all but it's minimum obligations suggests that research ought to be directed towards replacement of the state in this area. It does seem to me by some of the more hysterical references in opposition to the rights of each individual to make andbe accountable for their own choices that the research programme is more geared up to the restoration of a male dominant - female subservient and dependent family. Surely it must be right that alternatives to government action be explored before the promotion of good public administration is held up as the goal to which we should aim.<br />This is a well written book which should generate some considerable debate both for it's content and for the role that it might have in the shaping of a civil society by which I mean a society of minimum rather than maximum government.accountable for their own choices that the research programme is more geared up to the restoration of a male dominant - female subservient and dependent family. Surely it must be right that alternatives to government action be explored before the promotion of good public administration is held up as the goal to which we should aim.<br />This is a well written book which should generate some considerable debate both for it's content and for the role that it might have in the shaping of a civil society by which I mean a society of minimum rather than maximum government.	2002-11-09
US	49834367	R9J37ROVMDHG3	0255363982	699512907	Does Prison Work? (Choice in Welfare)	Books	2	2	4	N	N	Provocation Rules!	Charles murray is almost guaranteed a response to anything he might say in Britain. It is almost as if a cheerful 'Good Morning' would lead to an almost instantaneous rebuttal from the establishment over there.<br />This book, drawn from two articles which appeared in that paragon of academic and scholastic excellence, the 'Sunday Times', achieves it's goal of having the thesis of prisons work refuted.<br />Alas, it is hardly a difficult thing to achieve that result. Mr. Murray is a well versed practitioner of the use of statistics tom prove his point. His works, characteristically guaranteed to raise the hackles, are very thought provoking and deserve serious consideration. Indeed there is much to commend them in general. Here, however, this short polemic is too narrow in scope to be judges a definitive contribution to the debate on crime and punishment. Certainly the simplistic point he makes tends to elicit a closed end response and to cause the creation of antagonistic camps but he as an author knows that this is not enough.<br />Prisons, of themselves, are insufficient to consider when crime and punishment are under the microscope. They too are social institutions and their organisation falls prey to the dominant ideologies of the day. They are in general government run or regulated institutions which face little or no competitive pressures from other institutions. Also they will house those who are deemed by the social order to be criminals when their only crimes may be non-payment of fines or the perennial use of recreational drugs which are of themselves less harmful than their legal counterparts such as alcohol.<br />Prisons do not exist in vacuums. They clearly work in the sense that they lead to an immediate reduction in crime but their long term use may be more destructive. Although the recent experience comes sometime after the publication of this book, anecdotally, the huge prison populations of the United States have not, over the longer term contributed to a permanent dimunition of crimes nor to a marked decline in serious crimes which involve fatalities. Indeed it may be remarked that greater incarceration makes the likelihood of murders and serial killings more rather than less likely as the perpetrator has nothing to lose. You only die once so to speak.<br />This book is certainly provocative whichever side of the argument you may be on if you have chosen a side. Good knockabout stuff but hardly a serious contribution to the academic or social debate.<br />Not up to the usual IEA standard.ted to a permanent dimunition of crimes nor to a marked decline in serious crimes which involve fatalities. Indeed it may be remarked that greater incarceration makes the likelihood of murders and serial killings more rather than less likely as the perpetrator has nothing to lose. You only die once so to speak.<br />This book is certainly provocative whichever side of the argument you may be on if you have chosen a side. Good knockabout stuff but hardly a serious contribution to the academic or social debate.<br />Not up to the usual IEA standard.	2002-11-07
US	49834367	R3L59JYFW8JLIN	0255363974	299351244	How to Pay for Health Care: Public and Private Alternatives (Choice in Welfare)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Paying for Health. Some suggestions.	The debate about financing health care rumbles on, not only in Britain but around the world.<br />After the Conservative government's reforms in Britain, a new Labour government aimed at renewing the National Health Service in it's own way. This book appeared at around the time of transition.<br />How to Pay for Health Care gathers together five papers of varying quality which look at the history of the NHS and some options about the then current thinking going on to pay for health care in Britain.<br />This is not a free marketeer's charter. In some ways it is a significantly pragmatic attempt to incorporate additional funding within broadly party political lines into the National Health Service to keep it essentially available to all.<br />It is in that context that the book misses it's target audience. The only common feature is reform and the authors explore various options without getting into any depth or to look more generally into the core concept of state provision of healthcare.<br />The ease by which the Labour Party brushed aside real attempts to tackle the continuing deep seated problems of the NHS by the Conservatives, seen by the continued failure of the current Labour administration to bring about significant reforms, illustrates how hot a political potato health is in Britain.<br />In essence I see this book as little more of a newsletter about current thinking on the issue of health care funding. What is required is some politically impossible thinking by some brave academics about the whole notion of health and healthcare.<br />Some interesting notions to consider which is like a meal when once consumed it still leaves one hungry.	2002-11-03
US	49834367	R24OQC3L8QHPYQ	0255364326	434786404	Zero Tolerance:Policing a Free Society (Choice in Welfare,No 35)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Zero Tolerance: Social Arrangements in a Free Society	This book is ostensibly about crime. Specifically the amelioration of crime by a policy of zero tolerance of minor and petty crimes which became famous for the dramatic fall in crime in New York City.<br />This book has a slightly different focus. Rather than concentrating on what Zero Tolerance is and does, it seeks to place the crime figures and approaches to crime reduction in a broader context of community. The concept of community developed both in these pages and within a wider research agenda supposedly concerned with the development of a civil society in which the state plays a smaller and smaller role has a particular slant to it.<br />Zero Tolerance is the latest in a line of books from the Institute of Economic Affairs Health and Welfare Unit, now a free standing institute of it's own, CIVITAS, which postulate a decline in morals and behavious which result from a growing tendency in our society to becoming more individualsitic. The model of decency and good behaviour upon which this view is based is a rather idyllic view of the English working class family as portrayed by Norman Dennis in some of the earlier books of this series. Here it's scope is widened to incorporate views on how to tackle crime which involve the wider civil society. Policing in this view is both external and internal and the police forces themselves are seen as a legitimate part of the community, reinforcing the internal rules and moralities forged in the furnace of home and family. Headed preferably, of course, by working father, stay at home mother etc.<br />You will not find in this book any arguments about drugs save for the superior tone about how the use of drugs has grown in our society and is therefore bad. This cannot go unchallenged. In a passage devoted to the emphasis on education and development of working men's clubs and institutes the book praises them for their contribution to improving the moral fibre of those who participated. These clubs were segregated against women drinking in the public bar and fought hard to retain that position against equality laws and became more well known for the strong and cheap beers that they sold than for moral improvement. Their innate conservatism was a major contributor to why their customers deserted them and caused the closure of many in the North East of England. While the consumption of this legal drug is condoned, other recreational drugs are the cause of much petty crime. The book ignores the setting of the laws and blithley makes assertions about theft while ignoring the basic point that laws against drugs make them more attractive to the purchasers, more profitable to the suppliers and lead many who consume them to do things out of character in order to get their drugs. I could go on but this would be a book of it's own.<br />Zero Tolerance is a one sided book. It excludes any consideration of the diminishing role of the church in society as one of a number of relevant institutions, and it excludes any treatment of what changing structures in our society mean for those individuals who have previously been imprisoned by those structures, in particular, for women. The supposed golden age of the working class family is a modern myth, a sociological urban legend, which did not exist for many.<br />Ultimately, this is yet another attack on growing individualism in our society which begrudges any positive changes and which harkens back to an age which never really existed. The causes of crime run deeper than one parent families and tower blocks. The harsh reality today is that women are valued more by society than they were which is the real reason why female wage rates are increasing while male wages rates decline overall.<br />Perhaps we should be looking forward and not backward to see how a healthy individualist society might develop.en drinking in the public bar and fought hard to retain that position against equality laws and became more well known for the strong and cheap beers that they sold than for moral improvement. Their innate conservatism was a major contributor to why their customers deserted them and caused the closure of many in the North East of England. While the consumption of this legal drug is condoned, other recreational drugs are the cause of much petty crime. The book ignores the setting of the laws and blithley makes assertions about theft while ignoring the basic point that laws against drugs make them more attractive to the purchasers, more profitable to the suppliers and lead many who consume them to do things out of character in order to get their drugs. I could go on but this would be a book of it's own.<br />Zero Tolerance is a one sided book. It excludes any consideration of the diminishing role of the church in society as one of a number of relevant institutions, and it excludes any treatment of what changing structures in our society mean for those individuals who have previously been imprisoned by those structures, in particular, for women. The supposed golden age of the working class family is a modern myth, a sociological urban legend, which did not exist for many.<br />Ultimately, this is yet another attack on growing individualism in our society which begrudges any positive changes and which harkens back to an age which never really existed. The causes of crime run deeper than one parent families and tower blocks. The harsh reality today is that women are valued more by society than they were which is the real reason why female wage rates are increasing while male wages rates decline overall.<br />Perhaps we should be looking forward and not backward to see how a healthy individualist society might develop.	2002-10-29
US	49834367	R3GSXQCNI2XU9K	0255363923	222726551	The Invention of Permanent Poverty (Choice in Welfare)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Exploring the myths of social policy	This is a superb book. Well argued, very well written, not the best annotated study I have read, but a cogent, lucid piece of prose with a very compelling argument.<br />Norman Dennis, writing from a perspective of an ethical socialist demolishes the myth that poverty and unemployment cause crime. He is essentially attacking a report by authors commissioned by the Joseph Rowntree Foundation to inquire into Income and Wealth in England and Wales. The report itself is however, representative of the whole theory which holds that crime is the result of poverty and unemployment and is thus 'no-one's fault'.<br />Using the same information as the authors and drawing from other published sources, Dennis categorically shows that the arguments do not hold up to any serious scruting. He deplores the extension of marxist and so-called socialist academics theories away from attacking the capitailist superstructure and into areas of discrimination and inequality. His capacity to do so is supported by his position as a long-term member of the Labour Party and his academic credentials.<br />For Dennis, explanations of crime should be more focussed on the sexual liberation of men since the 1960's and the changing values of the elites in British society which allows for sexual freedom or licence withou responsibility. By turning the focus of social policy makers onto women who suffer because of this behaviour industrialised societies are in effect promoting an estrangement of men from responsibility, an effect which has been enhanced by the changing nature of employment from traditional male manual labour to more female orientated tasks and services. This combined with the impact of contraceptive devices has allowed for increasing restlessness among (particularly young) males which has been excused in Dennis' view by the no-fault theories.<br />While Dennis' argument is compelling there are some flaws in his argument. His critique of social liberalisation is a clever denunciation of an increasing individualistic society. For him, the cry is a return to the family. I am not trying here to equate his view to the 'Back to Basics' nonsense of the Major Government for Dennis' view is clearly more complex than that. He asks for a return to a more authoritative socialist type of society rather than looking for a strengthening of the existing laws to ensure that relationships carry responsibility for actions as well as the rights to enjoy them.<br />Another error is the complete failure to examine the exceptions to the nicey-nice view of working class life that he so eloquently portrays. He ignores the infidelity that certainly existed, he ignores the whole question of back street abortions, and most crucially he does not examine at all the whole issue of prostitution which was certainly not the sole perogative of the middle and upper classes.<br />Despite thos criticisms this really is a well written and argued little book. Recommended for anyone with an interest in crime and social policy. Also one of the cleverest critiques of the emerging social and economic liberalism currently sweeping around the world.an increasing individualistic society. For him, the cry is a return to the family. I am not trying here to equate his view to the 'Back to Basics' nonsense of the Major Government for Dennis' view is clearly more complex than that. He asks for a return to a more authoritative socialist type of society rather than looking for a strengthening of the existing laws to ensure that relationships carry responsibility for actions as well as the rights to enjoy them.<br />Another error is the complete failure to examine the exceptions to the nicey-nice view of working class life that he so eloquently portrays. He ignores the infidelity that certainly existed, he ignores the whole question of back street abortions, and most crucially he does not examine at all the whole issue of prostitution which was certainly not the sole perogative of the middle and upper classes.<br />Despite thos criticisms this really is a well written and argued little book. Recommended for anyone with an interest in crime and social policy. Also one of the cleverest critiques of the emerging social and economic liberalism currently sweeping around the world.	2002-10-22
US	49834367	R2QFJXUCXAU14X	0255365306	688914972	The Road to Serfdom: The Condensed Version As It Appeared in the April 1945 Edition of Reader's Digest (Occasional Paper, 122)	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Why the road to hell is paved with good intentions	Hayek wrote the original 'Road to Serfdom' which appeared in 1944 and which still, today, is a salutory reminder of the fate which awaits us should we put too much faith in the state under whichever political persuasion.<br />This little book, a reprint of the version which appeared in the Reader's Digest, deserves five stars for a number of reasons.<br />Firstly for the central message which it contains about the dangers of the collectivist state and the concentration of powers that such a state holds unto itself. Hayek dedicated his book to the socialists of all parties by which he meant that in all political parties, and indeed in the minds of many who hold no party affiliation, there are those who hold that the only way to achive a particular end is through the power of the state. He shows however, that the state which accumulates power eventually will turn that power onto the people and in the process dehumanizes those that wield power such that any revolting activity becomes justifiable. This book contains the central tenents of his arguments which are laid out in full in the unabridged version. Hayek abhors the development of the state in modern societies seeing the entity which is the state as a sort of evil empire and cautions people to be watchful and on their guard so that they maintain a healthy suspicion of the state and act to keep it from becoming too powerful. Yet, ironically, Hayek sees the tendency for such states to flourish in the so-called free societies of England and the United States. Here in New Jersey, earlier in 2002, the city of Morristown passed an ordinance which limits the number of pets which can be held in an individual household. Clearly the state intervenes too much in our lives already.<br />Secondly, the original Reader's Digest version, reflecting consumer demand, published this reprint at the front of it's magazine instead of at the end which was it's normal practice as well as exceeding it's normal print run many times over.<br />Thirdly, the editing down of the original to the condensed size is a marvel given that none of the essential essence of the original is not lost.<br />Hayek was originally writing in the face of the existing totalitarian regimes which existed in a number of European countries in the early 1940's and the growing strength and power of the USSR. He cautions the free nations of the West to beware the growth of the state and to fight against it. The book has a real contemporary relevance too with the world's attention being foccussed mainly on Iraq but also increasingly on the nations of Africa. Clearly the terrible and dramatic series of events unfolding in Zimbabwe are a horrific reminder of what can happen if the state and it's servants become too powerful.<br />For anyone believing in freedom this is a must read book.r />Thirdly, the editing down of the original to the condensed size is a marvel given that none of the essential essence of the original is not lost. <br />Hayek was originally writing in the face of the existing totalitarian regimes which existed in a number of European countries in the early 1940's and the growing strength and power of the USSR. He cautions the free nations of the West to beware the growth of the state and to fight against it. The book has a real contemporary relevance too with the world's attention being foccussed mainly on Iraq but also increasingly on the nations of Africa. Clearly the terrible and dramatic series of events unfolding in Zimbabwe are a horrific reminder of what can happen if the state and it's servants become too powerful.<br />For anyone believing in freedom this is a must read book.	2002-10-09
US	49834367	RTCH2W07CFLLZ	025536475X	452400527	The Global Education Industry: Lessons from Private Education in Developing Countries (Studies in Education, 7)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	The State versus Education.	American readers may be surprised to learn that there is only one private university throughout the length and breadth of the United Kindom, and that is the University of Buckingham. I draw readers attention to this fact more to highlight the paucity of public policy in this area than anything else and to set out the basis of the review that follows.<br />The Global Education Industry is the summary of some of the results obtained from research carried out for the International Finance Corporation, which is the private sector funding subsidiary of the World Bank Group. Published here in conjunction with the London based, think tank the Institute of Economic Affairs, this book is a major contributor to the ongoing debate across the industrialised world concerning the proper level of involvement of the state in education.<br />Education in England and Wales at least (Scotland has it's own educational sytem) was once the province of the private sector both charitable and for profit. This has been accounted in tremendous detail by E.G. West in his masterly study, Education and the state. Suffice it to say that one of the main, somewhat surprising conclusions of the book was that lower income groups were of the mind that education was a good well worth paying for and contributed significant sums so that their children coul better themselves. Indeed there is a significant tradition in England and Wales of the poor bettering themselves through study (see Rose, J 'The Intellectual Life of the British Working Classes). The type of education provided was not good enough fpor the ruling classes who, in 1870, passed the Foster Act which introduced state education though the back door into the country.<br />Today, there is a small but flourishing private sector still in elementary and secondary education in England and Wales serving some seven per cent of the population to which ordinary people will send their children, often undergoing severe sacrifices to do so, but mostly the pupils are middle and upper incomes. The vast majority of the education sector through a variety of agencies is under the rigid control of the state.<br />This book, although pointing to the experience of private education in developing countries is primarily aimed at policy makers in the industrialised world, and in particular, Britain. It sets out clearly and categorically the case for the private provision of education in whatever sector that one chooses to select and shows clearly and consistently how high quality education can be provided without the dead hand of the state forcing conformity, uniformity and bureaurcracy upon schools and universities. It highlights the innovative nature of those private sector inn areas of curriculum development and lesson delivery. The focus on the most efficient use of resources also allows for staff development without any cost for staff and students alike.<br />The Global Education Industry presents an opportunity to public policy makers to improve the supply of education in the so called Western world while freeing up the resources of the state to carry out it's basic functions. It is not an attack on the state sector but a presentation of what can and may be. No doubt this will be opposed by academics and educationalists who have enjoyed a warm and cosy, even lucrative, relationship with the state over many years and who'se minds are closed to the endless possibilities of the market. The book's contents however, tell another story.pupils are middle and upper incomes. The vast majority of the education sector through a variety of agencies is under the rigid control of the state.<br />This book, although pointing to the experience of private education in developing countries is primarily aimed at policy makers in the industrialised world, and in particular, Britain. It sets out clearly and categorically the case for the private provision of education in whatever sector that one chooses to select and shows clearly and consistently how high quality education can be provided without the dead hand of the state forcing conformity, uniformity and bureaurcracy upon schools and universities. It highlights the innovative nature of those private sector inn areas of curriculum development and lesson delivery. The focus on the most efficient use of resources also allows for staff development without any cost for staff and students alike.<br />The Global Education Industry presents an opportunity to public policy makers to improve the supply of education in the so called Western world while freeing up the resources of the state to carry out it's basic functions. It is not an attack on the state sector but a presentation of what can and may be. No doubt this will be opposed by academics and educationalists who have enjoyed a warm and cosy, even lucrative, relationship with the state over many years and who'se minds are closed to the endless possibilities of the market. The book's contents however, tell another story.	2002-09-26
US	49834367	R1BVNVHUCUL4E1	0255364032	515596744	Why Schoolchildren Can't Read (Iea Studies in Education , No 2)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	I went to a good skool. It was Approved!	Bonnie Macmillan has provided an excellent service to parents everywhere by setting out the reasons why schoolchildren cannot read.<br />Her book goes over in meticulous detail the conflicts between the phonics and other methods which have been used in schools across the world to teach our children to read.<br />The style she adopts is to breakdown each chapter into research and practice and explores every avenue of educational and psychological aspects of teaching children to read. She draws upon all of the latest in research to sustain her claim that the phonics method is the best and most reliable method of teaching children to read. However, she also shows how the vast majoriyty of teachers, particularly in the state sector of British education, while claiming to use a variety of methods to teach reading, actually are particularly limited to methods which have been found wanting.<br />The book itself is a little difficult for the general reader but the point she makes is a vital one for the continued health and development of Britain. There are also serious implications for the state of education in Britain. Despite the time of writing being at the juncture of the change from the Conservative to Labour administrations, education is still in the thrall of collectivist ideologues who have convinced themselves of the paucity of learning and the advancement of knowledge in the post-modern capitalist state.<br />Much work is needed to restore the 'state' of British education to where it once was. This book is a very important contribution to the debate about the quality and quantity of education in Britain and deserves to be taken seriously by all educators.	2002-09-25
US	49834367	RZQ8HRA8EFU0T	0255364768	350823351	Teacher Education in England and Wales	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Those who can, do. Those who cannot, teach.	Geoffrey Partington tells a sorry tale of woe about teacher training in England and Wales. It is guaranteed to upset a number of people particularly those in the teaching profession (?), teacher's unions and those in the education sector of higher education.<br />Partington uses a historical perspective to explore the development of teacher training from the earliest years, particularly with the onset of state involvement in education following from the Foster Act of 1870. That act has a particular relevance here as it was used initially to introduce state education where private provision was unable to meet a need. In the following century the Conservative government used a similar tactic of using legislation to introduce Local Management of Schools and Grant Maintained schools into the national, state education system.<br />The author examines the way that teacher education was infiltrated by new left ideologues with the result that the purpose of education was shifted towards social change and antagonism towards capitalist society. He contends that the introduction of the centralising national curriculum was instrumental in shifting the balance back towards teaching for entry into society and focussing on improving teacher training techniques as well as moving teacher training out of colleges and back to the classroom.<br />In interviews with teaching practitioners, he finds that the new balance is perceived to be about right but with little credit being attributed to the Conservative governments who instituted the changes.<br />This book is an admirable account of the battles for supremacy in teacher education. Scholarly and well written with a clearly set out starting point of the author, my only complaint is the way in which he presents his case in a political fashion. While it is true that the Conservative governments of Thatcher and Major were the instigators of the legislation which wrought teacher training out of the ideological morass in which it was trapped, they themselves were not the prime movers in the battle. Many people of left and right were very concerned about what was being passed for as education in British schools and had it not been for their pressure, through action groups and think tanks, then those governments would not have brought about those changes.<br />Other than that, anyone with an interest in education should read this admirable little book.ped, they themselves were not the prime movers in the battle. Many people of left and right were very concerned about what was being passed for as education in British schools and had it not been for their pressure, through action groups and think tanks, then those governments would not have brought about those changes.<br />Other than that, anyone with an interest in education should read this admirable little book.	2002-09-25
US	49834367	R1RI1G5RZ5N8R	025536380X	721374954	Education Without the State (Studies in Education)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	And we've got to get ourselves back to the garden...	Education is one of those subjects that almost immediately polarises people and causes arguments. It is also a subject where people rarely speak what is on their minds as they are often fearful of retribution being levied upon their children. In America, often the silent majority are only witnessed by the result of the ballot box when school budgets are voted on. Unfortunately, the system is such that even though a budget can be voted down it can get through the objections of the voters and be enacted.<br />Students of the history of education in England and Wales will know, courtesy of the sterling work done by Professor E.G. West, that for the vast majority of the poor, education was provided privately by fee or through friendly societies up until the Foster Education Act of 1870. This particular piece of legislation was intended to supplement the existing private provision with state provision in areas where there was no private schooling. Instead it became a piece of legislation which imposed additional costs and burdens on the private sector which forced them out of business and supplanted them with state schools.<br />James Tooley makes a powerful case as to why the state has no business in education. He deals point by point with the arguments against the private provision of education and finds them wanting, backing up his points with a great deal of scholarship. His conclusions amount to an incremental increase in private provision in private sector education as a first step to a large scale replacement of state schools. In one telling argument Tooley points out the contradiction that exists in low income areas. There may be poverty but the supermarkets and stores are new and up to date. By way of stark contrast the schools have not significantly changed in over 100 years and are run in pretty much the same way with essentially the same technology. Tooley also acclaims the last Conservative administration's decentralising moves towards the state school sector but roundly condems the nationalised curriculum.<br />A very well argued cogent piece of work. However, like all resolutions at the Conservative party Conference, the book does not go far enough. Having made the case against state intervention, surely Tooley must extend the case for an almost 100% private state education sector. Even if he were not to go that far, he should at least have considered some of the alternatives to existing provision or do so in more detail such as the technological developments which can allow distance teaching with accountability.<br />I do not want to be churlish. It is an excellent book but it could have been much, much more. What is needed is a manifesto for fredom in education...a banner behind which many many people could walk behind.<br />For English readers...I went to a good school...it was approved!r but roundly condems the nationalised curriculum. <br />A very well argued cogent piece of work. However, like all resolutions at the Conservative party Conference, the book does not go far enough. Having made the case against state intervention, surely Tooley must extend the case for an almost 100% private state education sector. Even if he were not to go that far, he should at least have considered some of the alternatives to existing provision or do so in more detail such as the technological developments which can allow distance teaching with accountability.<br />I do not want to be churlish. It is an excellent book but it could have been much, much more. What is needed is a manifesto for fredom in education...a banner behind which many many people could walk behind.<br />For English readers...I went to a good school...it was approved!	2002-08-24
US	49834367	R1ZW0NK9O2IGTV	0767911857	603654344	A Long Strange Trip: The Inside History of the Grateful Dead	Books	5	17	21	N	Y	How about a complimentary product...Robert Hunter's story?	I have to admit to a certain bias towards the Grateful Dead. Their music has comforted and beguiled me, it has been my joy and my delight, it has been my heaven, my hell and it's spirit lives on. My first written word experience of the band whom I hold so dear was a book by Hank Harrison given to me by one of my closest and best friends, Rib Chile Kyam.<br />Since Jerry Garcia's early and untimely demise has deprived us of his and the band's musical adventures there have been many books about this most legendary of America's rock bands, some good, some awful and most just plain and mediocre.<br />This new book, acclaimed to be the real deal as it is written by Dennis McNally the Grateful Dead publicist, is a joy to read and is a gripping account of almost thirty years of adventure and music. McNally is the author of a book on Jack Kerouac a fact which helped him land the job as the band's publicist. He writes here as a professional writer with good prose style and one which is almost pregnant with expectation, almost as if each sentence insists 'and then, and then...'<br />The structure of the book is relatively straightforward - in a historical progression with little asides along the way. It is very personable and enables the reader to get to know the personalities involved and to gain the strength of the relationships with each other. There is a strong sense to of a wider community indeed several communities, the band and theirclosest friends and other musicians, the bay area community and of course the fans, the DeadHeads. You get the sense to of the musical legacies inherited by the band from all over the United States which find a way to be weaved into the cosmic musical carpet of the Grateful Dead's music. It is the personalities and the larger than life characters who dominate the pages which makes this particular book so interesting to me. It soon becomes clear that the band members are no shrinking violets and that the band operates in a non-traditional environment.<br />All in all it is one hell of a book and a must have to go alongside the Electric Kool-Aid Acid Tests among others. In time I believe that it will become one of the most important books on the history of the popular music which has dominated for almost fifty years. There is one criticism which I have heard that I would like to address and that is to do with the cleaned up aspect of the book. To me there is enough of that stuff out there already which is available to anyone who wants to go and find it. This book may be clean but then it presents the band as adventurers in music who brought pleasure to millions. It is a legitimate portrayal and an approch which gives a lot of insight into the worlings of the band. Everyone has problems, everyone has there own demons but what have they to do with what we do with our lives?<br />A final thought. Someone needs tp persuade Robert Hunter to write his and the band's story. That would be real interesting. Dennis you have done a great job! Thank you.vironment.<br />All in all it is one hell of a book and a must have to go alongside the Electric Kool-Aid Acid Tests among others. In time I believe that it will become one of the most important books on the history of the popular music which has dominated for almost fifty years. There is one criticism which I have heard that I would like to address and that is to do with the cleaned up aspect of the book. To me there is enough of that stuff out there already which is available to anyone who wants to go and find it. This book may be clean but then it presents the band as adventurers in music who brought pleasure to millions. It is a legitimate portrayal and an approch which gives a lot of insight into the worlings of the band. Everyone has problems, everyone has there own demons but what have they to do with what we do with our lives?<br />A final thought. Someone needs tp persuade Robert Hunter to write his and the band's story. That would be real interesting. Dennis you have done a great job! Thank you.	2002-08-24
US	49834367	R1W29UJ3RCR289	0255364946	106286822	Saving Our Streams (Research Monograph, 53)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	There's Nothing Fishy About this book.	Roger Bate follows in a long line of authors who have written for the London based free market institute, the Institute of Economic Affairs. Capitalism by Arthur Seldon, Education and the State by E. G. West and Working Class Patients by David G. Green have all explored the development of solutions to social and economic problems without the state being involved.<br />The broader historical context can be found in the writings of the Scottish enlightenment, notably Adam Smith who saw the virtues of the free market and the superiority of men acting together to generate a solution which was not planned. later, hayek through his insight of dispersed knowledge recognised the limits to state action which could be overcome through individual economic actors working in concert together.<br />In this admirable little book, Roger Bate explores the fight that the (now) Anglers' Conservation Association has fought in cleaning up English and Welsh rivers and streams from pollution and other environmental damage. This voluntary club or society if you like has used the tools provided by the English Common Law to battle against polluters whether they be individual farmers, commercial enterprises, local authorities, government agencies (including environmental ones!) or nationalised industries. They have been remarkably successful in saving our streams and rivers despite being of small membership and limited in funds. Despite those handicaps they have fought against all powerful government and it's statute law to establish the pre-eminence of riparian rights.<br />Roger Bate sets out with remarkable clarity the history of the Anglers' Conservation Association and the principles upon which it is based. He examines the legal basis of the cases which have set the precedents for later action, landmark cases and shows how they have impacted on British Government policy.<br />If I have any reservation about this book at all it would be that there is not sufficient consideration of the impact of current European legislation and the possible impact of European policy on this area. However, this may be the subject of another research monograph for another day.<br />The book provides further support and evidence, if anymore were needed, for the superiority of individual action or individuals acting in concert over the futile although well meaning actions of the state. I commend it to all readers.pact of current European legislation and the possible impact of European policy on this area. However, this may be the subject of another research monograph for another day.<br />The book provides further support and evidence, if anymore were needed, for the superiority of individual action or individuals acting in concert over the futile although well meaning actions of the state. I commend it to all readers.	2002-08-19
US	49834367	R25ZXDUQTGX7DQ	0255363826	575080750	Should Developing Countries Have Central Banks?: Currency Quality and Monetary Systems in 155 Countries (Research Monograph)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Interesting Question...Raises more questions than answers.	Let me say at the outset that this is an excellent study by Kurt Schuler and there is nothing within the contents of the Research Monograph that I would find disagreement with. The question is why only four stars?<br />The London based, free market Institute of Economic Affairs published this book in 1996. The timing is almost coincident with the Labour Chancellor of the Exchequer, Gordon Brown, granting semi-autonomy to the British central bank, the Bank of England. It is an interesting question in of itself about why the incoming Labour government should do this but not surprising given the failure of successive British governments to achieve low rates of inflation since the 1960s. However, I digress.<br />The author looks at the history of central banks and their rise to prominence. He looks at their performance in general and examines their alternatives. He then moves on to eamine the relationship between central banking and currency quality which precedes the final section on improving currency quality in developing countries.<br />This paper, examining as it does, 155 countries draws a clear conclusion that central banking in developing countries has performed worse in comparison to other monetary systems and in comparison to central banking in developed countries. I find no objection to that conclusion either.<br />My reasons for giving this study four stars is that the conclusion itself is unsurprising. The economics of the study are fine. I do not disagree with the analysis of the various economic theories which are assessed. However, the case of central banking does take place within a political context and it is clear from the study that there is a correlation of the performance of central banks with the political system operating in a particular country and the openness of the economy of that country. Where there are democratic institutions and where the government has political legitimacy and, where there is freedom of political expression and a plurality of interest groups and, where the economy is open to free-ish trade and the holding of a country's assets outside of it's borders then the central bank performs well. Where those conditions are weakened then performance is poor often due to the tendency of ruling governments to try to appropriate a country's assests for themselves.<br />This to me is of much greater significance than Dr. Schuler's paper. There is also a much more fundamental criticism, not dwelt on here of why we should even have central banks to begin with.<br />However, this is an excellent paper and one which should be of interest to teachers and students of economics and international politics. I would seriously recommend this title to anyone intested in trade and politics.ty of interest groups and, where the economy is open to free-ish trade and the holding of a country's assets outside of it's borders then the central bank performs well. Where those conditions are weakened then performance is poor often due to the tendency of ruling governments to try to appropriate a country's assests for themselves.<br />This to me is of much greater significance than Dr. Schuler's paper. There is also a much more fundamental criticism, not dwelt on here of why we should even have central banks to begin with.<br />However, this is an excellent paper and one which should be of interest to teachers and students of economics and international politics. I would seriously recommend this title to anyone intested in trade and politics.	2002-08-16
US	49834367	R2IHWDDGA0T4VQ	0255361408	460831347	Capitalist Technology for Soviet Survival (INSTITUTE OF ECONOMIC AFFAIRS, LONDON. RESEARCH MONOGRAPHS, 35)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Why the West was responsible for maintaining the USSR!	Arthur Seldon, when Editorial Director for the free market Institute of Economic Affairs, forecast long before the event that Russia (the Soviet Union as then was) would go capitalist before the end of the century. As often is the case with one of Britain's unsung intellectuals, his prediction came true albeit a few years earlier than even he expected.<br />In this short but excellent text, Philip Vander Elst begins from the starting point of Ludwig von Mises position in the socialist calculation debate of the 1930s. He demonstrates that the opponents of Mises and also Hayek did not prove their case and explains why their position, mistakenly accepted as the winning arguement, was false.<br />From there Vander Elst moves to examine the planning processes of the Soviet Union and shows how the planning of such a gargantuan empire is technically impossible given the number of products involved, the number of producers involved and without even taking into account the changes that invariably take place.<br />This precedes a consideration of the historical record of the USSR and an exposition of how technological transfer between the industrialised west and the USSR has taken place over the years and of how that transfer was diverted by the USSR authorities to be used to try to keep up with western economic progress.<br />The author concludes that even with the transfer of technolgy to the Soviet Union and the updating of workers skills is insufficient to maintain the technological and economic standards of the Soviet Union, He argues that the planning process is fatally flawed in that it contains an inherent contradiction. Technology transfer can only work if it is set in an environment which allows it to adapt quickly to change ie in a free market or capitalist environment. Ultimately he sees the collapse of the system and the emergence of some form of capitalism.<br />This is a well written, easily read, closely argued book which was originally published in 1981. A very prescient Research Monograph indeed.ry prescient Research Monograph indeed.	2002-08-15
US	49834367	RU3TBLLDHRRMK	0255359802	162426344	Social Benefits and Tax Rates: a Short Study of Implicit and Explicit Marginal Tax Rates in England and Wales (Research Monograph)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A Concise Exposition on Aspects of Marginal Tax rates	In this very short book, Professor A.R. Prest considers implicit and explicit marginal tax rates in England and Wales in the late 1960s.<br />Essentially the author considers what the rates of taxation are as implied by a wide range of social benefits. There has been a fiction perpetrated on the British people since the National Insurance scheme was introduced in 1948 that taxes and benefits were somehow distinct and unrelated. Similarly a further refinement was introduced that the varying benefits available to those who qualified for them were different between each other. Alas this is not the case nor was it then but the fiction served to obscure in people's minds the true nature of social benefits in the UK.<br />Professor Prest's timely account fits handsomely with the earlier Research Monograph on a 'Policy for Poverty'. It's closely argued and succint analysis lay bare the terrible impact on the incomes of the poorer in British society due to the interaction of the tax and benefits systems. He considers a variety of possible solutions to the issue and also looks on the impact of the tax rates upon entry, participation and exit from the labour market.<br />The paper is a masterful account of the issue and a wonderful example of the skills of the IEA Editor, Arthur Seldon.	2002-08-13
US	49834367	R2ILY2Z3TVFIM1	0255276052	540917483	Systems Analysis in Social Policy (Research Monograph)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	You can't buck the market or TNSTAAFL	First published in 1969 by the Institute of Economic Affairs, the free-market think tank, this little book takes government and others to task for their attempts to introduce systems analysis into public finance.<br />Dr. Ira Hoos, then a Research Sociologist at the University of California (Berkeley), sets out in a very closely argued and succinct paper the history, the techniques and some examples of such analysis before drawing some quite remarkable conclusions.<br />The book makes a very pertinent point which is to question the whole area of the applicability of management techniques to areas of government and to the usefulness of such techniques as they relate to general economic questions.<br />In this book, Dr. Hoos finds the issue of the use of systems analysis wanting in that there are no value free participants in such processes and that they are liable for capture by the particular vested interests involved. There is also the issue of the use of such techniques in areas not exposed to market forces either due to the nature of government involvement or the delineation of activity by legal and governmental processes. In such cases what are taken as costs are subjective and defined in part by the particular institutional structure involved.<br />There are also the broader issues of applicability of mathematical techniques to model and predict human behaviour as well as the development of the religion of the computer which effectively believes that all human and other activity can be distilled into packets of data. Dr. Hoos also highlights the growth in selling power of the space age technocracy which assists in the development of systems analysis and it's application into the field of government.<br />This book argues for less application of systems analysis and more of opening up areas of activity to the market. This is a powerful advocay, not for privatisation, but for liberalisation and the extension of competition into hitherto unreached areas rather like the upper waters of the Amazon. Ultimately governmental activity will reach a zenith after which it will be downhill all the way as government seeks to keep what it has provided but in the long run will only be sustainable in and by the market.<br />A very perceptive and readable book.e the upper waters of the Amazon. Ultimately governmental activity will reach a zenith after which it will be downhill all the way as government seeks to keep what it has provided but in the long run will only be sustainable in and by the market.<br />A very perceptive and readable book.	2002-08-06
US	49834367	R34H2PCU01YBT8	0028629302	343404486	The Complete Idiot's Guide to Enhancing Self-Esteem	Books	1	17	20	N	N	A Complete Idiot's Guide to Writing a Review of this book	I am always wary of books that begin with the accolade of 'The Complete Idiot's Guide' as it suggests that those who buy such books, are, indeed complete idiots.<br />Not believing myself to be in this category but being in search of ways to boost morale and productivity and teamwork I bought this book after having flicked through and found the contents to be short and well illustrated with anecdotes, humour and other such features to make this appealing to even the most reluctant readers.<br />This book certainly has all of those things and at a basic level it does a useful job in highlighting a number of features which help in enhancing self-esteem. The book is clearly well meaning but misses it's target by a long way.<br />My understanding of what this book is meant to be is as a self-study workbook. To some extent it is but really does not go far enough to help those who suffer from lack of self-esteem. Let me give one very crucial example. The author cites S.W.O.T. analysis, the first being Strengths, the second being weakness. The reader is asked to list his or her greatest strengths and serious weaknesses. However, there is no guidance given as to how someone should determine those, and, given that those who lack self-esteem do not feel good about themselves to begin with, they will find it hard to list strengths and will feel that they have more than three weaknesses.<br />The book does serve as an introduction to the problem and does point the way to some exercises that can be done to assist in enhancing self-esteem. For anyone serious about tackling this problem this is not the book for them.<br />...or of course I could just be a complete idiot and have missed the point of this book alltogether. Hmmm	2002-07-31
US	49834367	R3MBCAI34UM37K	0950162825	779964045	Alternative London	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Going Underground or Down in the Tube Station at Midnight	I am not sure of the origins of this book which first appeared in a paperback edition in either the late 60s or the early 1970sbut I am confident that they lie in the alternative culture which established itself in 'Swinging London' from the early 1960's onwards. I remember meeting someone associated with IT (International Times) and the discussion turned to the number of young people who had flocked to London in search of sex 'n' drugs 'n' rock 'n' roll but found the capital to be a more mundane and difficult existance.<br />I only have in my possesion the expanded 5th edition which was published in 1974 but the basics are the same. Nicholas Saunders did an admirable job in putting together what is essentially a survivor's guide to living in London on a small income. Broken down into sections each complete with it's own appendix, beginning  with housing, this book is a veritable encyclopedia of things to know about to get by with no family or friends support mechanism. Also very useful to students living alone for the first time in the metropolis. It has very helpful suggestions on food and is informative in areas of sex and drugs and major community issues. It is not a judgemental book nor does it prozletyse, it is written in a straightforward, matter-of-fact style and allows the reader to make up their own mind.<br />One criticism is that it is written in a dense fashion with small type but that negative is outweighed by the usefulness of the content. There are diagrams and drawings aplenty and great advice all round.<br />Living in London in the early seventies could be a hard and difficult experience with many innocents being taken advantage of by their more worldly and experienced inhabitants. This book at least gave people a chance to survive although I suspect some would see it as left-wing tree hugging hippie stuff. Left orientated certainly. Tree hugging hippie stuff not really.<br />Good information, good advice and a great survival guide. In time the book would be a guide to a magazine which would in turn supercede and then replace it...Time Out. But that is another story for another day.<br />This book is certainly of historical interest for anyone who had some interest and/or experience of the 'alternative society' in England or inded anywhere. There is certainly a Ph. D study subject on alternative London out there if anyone is interested!k would be a guide to a magazine which would in turn supercede and then replace it...Time Out. But that is another story for another day.<br />This book is certainly of historical interest for anyone who had some interest and/or experience of the 'alternative society' in England or inded anywhere. There is certainly a Ph. D study subject on alternative London out there if anyone is interested!	2002-07-31
US	49834367	R23WEG6308FQ2U	0195205448	802095398	The Private Provision of Public Services in Developing Countries (EDI Series in Economic Development)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Paying for Roads?	From the end of the second world war in so-called first world countries the state moved forward apparently with little or no resistance, extending itself into almost every nook and cranny of human existance.<br />For almost thirty years in the so-called 'golden age' this was the route of choice for economic development. If it worked for industrialised countries, the logic ran, it will work for the less developed countries.<br />With voices of Peter Bauer, Basil Yamey and later Deepak Lal like prophets in the wilderness the only ones to dare to object to the new breed of development economists who's watchwords were import substitution and public works, the state moved forward in those countries too but if the truth were to be told the money rolled into the pockets of the ruling elites.<br />Gabriel Roth was another of those voices in the wilderness. In a 1966 publication for the free market Institute of Economic Affairs based in London he put forward a radical proposal for paying for roads. Ahead of his time by only about thirty years or so his radical proposal is now part of the mainstream in consideration of solving the problem of road congestion.<br />In this masterful book, Roth puts his engineering and economic skills to good use to look at the extent of the private provision of so-called 'public services' in the developing countries and finds, to no-ones real surprise that the private sector does it better. As if to labour the point, James Tooley in a more recent study, 'The Global Education Industry' has discovered the same thing.<br />This is an important study which should be reuired reading for all policy-makers from Presidents and Prime Ministers all the way down to local council members as it carries very important ramifications for the provision of services throughout the world.<br />I feel on solid ground to predict that in a few years time, all of the services currently provided for out of public funds ( taxation is such a weasel word is it not?)will instead be provided by private forms of organisations. Gabriel Roth will have performed the highest level of service for all individuals across the world.nstead be provided by private forms of organisations. Gabriel Roth will have performed the highest level of service for all individuals across the world.	2002-06-26
US	49834367	RRBEBN9N3VL09	0255365128	451147672	Buckingham at 25: Freeing the Universities from State Control (Readings, 55)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Britain's One (and only) Private University	This book of readings from the London based free market think tank, the Institute of Economic Affairs, celebrates the twenty-fifth anniversary of it's founding.<br />Given the high regard with which British tertiary education is held throughout the world, it is more than somewhat surprising that in one league table, Britain comes bottom. That league table is in the proportion of private to public university education. While Chris Woodheadhas elssewhere, in 'Class War' recorded the failures of the English and Welsh school systems, there is no corresponding treatise on the current problems currently facing British Higher Education.<br />Lest there be any mistake, the authors writing herein are not focussing on the failures of the system, they are in fact making the case for more private institutions, but the problems are there and the current Blair administration has no current response.<br />This collection has some admirable moments. One could argue that the order could have been better such that a history of the creeping nationalisation and state control of the once great universities preceeded Harry Fern's original paper which set the ball in motion. It is hard to appreciate the serious nature of his call to arms to establish an independent university in Britain.<br />One could argue to that there is an ommission - that of the tale of struggle to bring the university into existance to it's current position.<br />On the whole the papers in this volume are of extremely high standard and immensely readable. Three papers stand out for me. Firstly, Kenneth Minogue's excellent account of the collapse of the academic in Britain. This will certainly spark some controversy. Secondly Norman Barry's insider account of privatising university education and finally, not the best but certainly some robust arguement in Duke Maskell's 'Great Higher Education Investment Swindle'.<br />This is a must read for anyone interested in higher education. For those fortunate enough to work in the private education sector already it is even more important to read as a reminder of the appalling alternative.in the private education sector already it is even more important to read as a reminder of the appalling alternative.	2002-06-25
US	49834367	RWAH44NTZ1LB7	0255364962	530204997	Capitalism, Morality & Markets (Readings, 54)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Morals and the market?	This short collection of essays is published by the free market Institute of Economic Affairs in London. The occasion for launching this volume was the introduction of an annual lecture series, 'The Templeton Forum on Markets and Morality' based on an idea by Michael Novak.<br />The four essayists, Brian Griffiths, Robert Sirico, Norman Barry and Frank Field approach the issue from their own philosophical standpoints but in general are in agreement that morality and markets are compatible. Norman Barry's paper for me is the most interesting in that he postulates the development of rules from the emergence of a spontaneous order rather than having a pre-established framework of rules or ethics. While others may argue that markets require a framework of rules to operate in and cite minimal government or an established church, Barry's paper opens up the whole question of what constitutes moral and ethical behaviour to begin with.<br />It is this particular proposition which holds out particular interest for more lectures like this in the future. Historically there have been thoise in favour of the market who wish to circumscribe it's impact and who cite all sorts of reasons such as the possible collapse of society if free markets are allowed free rein. Ranged against that position are those who despise markets altogether and those who believe that free markets bring true freedom. As someone who believes in the latter, it seems to me that the political changes in the world over the last twenty five years or so have resulted in large gains for those who believe in the controlled markets view at the dtriment of followers of the anti-market view. Organised religion has much to lose by increasing choice for individuals, and much to lose by democracy but that is another story, and has resisted strongly.<br />This collection of essays seems to be the first shot in a major debate between conservatives and classical liberals which will go to the heart of the arguement about the market.<br />Why only four stars? Well, I would have liked to have read more papers.market.<br />Why only four stars? Well, I would have liked to have read more papers.	2002-06-22
US	49834367	R1A7ZHAYGKZEIG	1840644796	863477197	Regulating Utilities: New Issue	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A Fitting Tribute to Professor Michael Beesley	Professor Michael Beesley pioneered a series of lectures on utility regulation sponsored jointly between the Institute of Economic Affairs, London and the London Business School which previously had been published in the IEA Readings series.<br />In 1999 his untimely death deprived the UK of one of it's most distinguished economists only shortly before the latest of the lecture series got underway. Now aptly renamed the Beesley lectures the series has continued under the auspices of the IEA and LBS and this book, edited by Beesley's close friend and colleague, IEA Editorial Director, is the record of that 1999 lecture series.<br />The format of the book mirrors that of the lectures themselves - each year the academics and the practitioners alternate in giving the lecture while the others chair the session and comment before opening up to the floor for questions and discussion. In line with the IEA brief to express the issues clearly and cogently so that the layman can follow the debate, the papers are well written with the minimum of technical jargon to explore the current issues and examine possibilities for the future.<br />The whole question of the limits to public finance which instigated privatisation, deregulation and increased competition in the provision of public services the world over has led to a burgeoning literature on regulation which may be viewed as the ability of government to ensure service delivery standards without direct provision. As universities and research institutes the world over focus on the questions of regulation, this series, although focussing on the British experience, nonetheless provides insights which have general applicability.<br />The quality of this book is very high and is recommended reading for expert, student and layman alike. Some of the papers are a little dated such as Colin Mayer's excellent exposition on the 1999 Water price review but which has important lessons for the whole of utility regulation. Overall the papers provide interesting perspectives on the approach of the recently elected Labour government's approach to regulation and competition. Professor Catherine Waddhams Price's paper is a prime example of regulation with a social needs perspective. Colin Robinson has done a marvellous job is editing the papers. The most interesting from my own point of view are the Ian Jones paper on 'Railway Franchising' and the final paper by Dan Goyder on the new Competition Commission.<br />All in all this is a befitting testimony to a great man who always had a knack of finding a new way of looking at things from everyone alse.s provide interesting perspectives on the approach of the recently elected Labour government's approach to regulation and competition. Professor Catherine Waddhams Price's paper is a prime example of regulation with a social needs perspective. Colin Robinson has done a marvellous job is editing the papers. The most interesting from my own point of view are the Ian Jones paper on 'Railway Franchising' and the final paper by Dan Goyder on the new Competition Commission.<br />All in all this is a befitting testimony to a great man who always had a knack of finding a new way of looking at things from everyone alse.	2002-06-19
US	49834367	R1Q42ENGFTEF1B	0255364830	507728297	Regulation without the State: The Debate Continues (Readings, 52)	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Market failure? What about government failure?	This book continues the great tradition of writing from the Institute of Economic Affairs which shows that government is a Johnny come lately to regulation as it was to education and the welfare state.<br />Regulation is a rapidly growing area of government activity since the fiscal crises of the 1970s forced governments throughout the world to divest themselves of whole companies and sectors, transferring them to the private sector as globalisation moved on.<br />In this timely book, John Blundell and Colin Robinson, General Director and Editorial Director respectively of the Institute of Economic Affairs, reprint their original 1999 Occasional Paper and open the floor up to commentaries from a distinguished panel of experts.<br />Led by a masterly paper by Professor Norman Barry, these commentaries explore the scope and limits of private and public regulation. They are in general agreement that the scope for public regulation is limited and that private regulation is a more cost-effective and efficient alternative. Also what emerges from the papers is a sense of Hayekian spontaneous order when several of the authors outline the emergence of private regulation as the market needed it without any prompting from government.<br />This fascinating little book is required reading for the layman, student and policymaker alike. It is of fundamental importance in examining the role of regulation in modern life and provides a timely warning of the dangers of government in over extending it's regulatory capabilities.	2002-05-28
US	49834367	R17M8980CIGYHB	0255364288	542895721	Lessons for Emu from the History of Monetary Unions (Iea Readings 50 50)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	EMU and the History of Monetary Unions	This is a must read for anyone interested in the history of monetary unions or alternatively interested in the development of Economic and monetary Union in Europe.<br />Published by the London based Institute of Economic Affairs this small but insightful book looks at selected monetary unions and draws on the experiences to put forward some lessons for policy-makers to draw upon as the Eurozone countries move inexorably towards a single European currency.<br />Almost as good as the original text are the contributions by way of commentaries from six luminaries from the world of economics who serve to place the original paper in a broader context of the greater EMU debate.<br />The result is a well balanced, thoughtful and well-argued book which I am sure will generate much debate and discussion about economic and monetary union. In a typical cogent and lucid way with a breezy style I would highly recommend this book to students and policy-makers alike from both sides of the Atlantic.	2002-05-28
US	49834367	R2P5HXYLCFWJES	0743201108	765285548	Grapefruit	Books	5	39	46	N	N	Master Piece	I bought this book in England in 1970 when it was released with the charming cover of a grapefruit atop a female posterior.<br />I loved the book and kept it rather than follow Yoko's instructions to burn it afterward.<br />Yesterday I read it again. It is funny how one's perceptions change over thirty years for better or for worse.<br />My conclusion is that this book is a Master Piece.<br />Sorry Yoko!<br />Please experience this book. SERIOUSLY!	2002-04-19
US	49834367	R2F4FD2BLP37DZ	0255364148	6262806	Does the Past Have a Future?: Political Economy of Heritage (Readings , No 47)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Stonehenge? Bunch of Rocks!	Coming from a country as I do with the odd ancient monument every few yards to a new one like America where history tends to be thought of as beginning only a few hundred years ago tends to give one a new perspective on the past.<br />This timely volume which was published in 1998 helps to give a deeper insight into the whole question of heritage.<br />Here in New Jersey right now towns are questioning the continuation of public libraries. In towns like mine, books are in decline within the library system which is dominated by so-called media studies. While heritage in the United States is broadening to include the cultures of the nations who have supplied people for the melting pot, there is also a growing awareness of the history of the local town.<br />This set of papers serves to underscore the fact that we cannot keep all of the past. It sets out the limitations, both spatially and of accessibility, of preserving and displaying artifacts and other remnants of the past, and questions the whole future of the heritage industry.<br />No mere dry economics text this, the papers point out the political and economic aspects of heritage and the importance that heritage has to various clases and income groups in society.<br />Regardless of the purists' motives in preserving the past for consumption by the future generations there are considerable costs involved financially and socially which must be considered.<br />Following on from a superb paper by the excellent Sir Alan Peacock, various papers by UK and European authors consider various aspects of the political economy of heritage case before concluding with a paper on the international aspects by Dick Netzer.<br />My only negative comment about this book is what is not included. I would like to have seen a written analysis of the whole question of heritage from different perspectives including a post-modernist approach. As any buyer of products from Amazon will know there is considerable debate about the relative values of the consumer products which we buy today especially in the entertainment field. This poses the serious question of how do we decide what is valuable in today's society and how do we make sure that those products will be accesible in the future.<br />As I conclude this review I am reminded of the lady I met in a theme park in the North East of the US who was complaining in a loud voice about how certain countries represented there were not like the real thing. She knew what those countries were like she said, because she had visited the real thing at Epcot!alues of the consumer products which we buy today especially in the entertainment field. This poses the serious question of how do we decide what is valuable in today's society and how do we make sure that those products will be accesible in the future.<br />As I conclude this review I am reminded of the lady I met in a theme park in the North East of the US who was complaining in a loud voice about how certain countries represented there were not like the real thing. She knew what those countries were like she said, because she had visited the real thing at Epcot!	2002-04-19
US	49834367	R3QOFO6DA478UJ	0255364067	596380040	Regulating Utilities: Broadening the Debate (Iea Readings, No 46)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	The rapidly increasing appreciation of regulation	Professor Beesley and the Institute of Economic Affairs, a free market think tank in London, England, have done the world a great service in instituting the annual series of lectures hosted by the London Business School on the subject of regulation in all of it's aspects.<br />Sadly Michael Beesley is no longer with us and the academic world is much poorer by his passing. However, the lecture series lives on and the most recent edition of the papers will be with us later on in the year.<br />The papers of the proceedings are a barometer reflecting the changes that are occurring in the field of regulation, here mainly concerned with the regulation of the so-called utilities. Each year the series mirrors the broadening concerns of regulation as it moves out into the wider world. The presentations deal with developments in utility regulation and their general applicability.<br />In this volume, IEA Readings 46, the papers look at the broader issues of utility regulation in the light of certain changes which occurred in the period following on from the previous year's lectures. A change in government following the fall of the last of the Conservative governments to hold power since 1979 was clearly a concern for the organisers and participants at the lectures and their concerns were met head on in a paper by David Currie. Growing awareness of the conflict inherent in the British approach to regulatory policy vis a vis the European approach is also considered. Another major theme is the process of introducing competition into the utility industries and the impact on the regulators.<br />Highlights of the volume for me were the paper by Currie on Labour's view, Colin Robinson's excellent paper on introducing competition into the water industry and Michael Beesley's  masterful consideration of the role of subsidy in the privatisation of the rail industry.<br />An excellent book in total with a very high standard in the quality of the papers, both technically and readability. The authors are to be commended on their sterling efforts to make complex subject matter accessible to the general audience.y. The authors are to be commended on their sterling efforts to make complex subject matter accessible to the general audience.	2002-04-19
US	49834367	R34AERF7I6VFX4	0671203940	765285548	Grapefruit	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Master Piece	I bought this book in England in 1970 when it was released with the charming cover of a grapefruit atop a female posterior.<br />I loved the book and kept it rather than follow Yoko's instructions to burn it afterward.<br />Yesterday I read it again. It is funny how one's perceptions change over thirty years for better or for worse.<br />My conclusion is that this book is a Master Piece.<br />Sorry Yoko!<br />Please experience this book. SERIOUSLY!	2002-04-19
US	49834367	R11O153WZX1UY0	0684862247	478805944	A Passion to Win	Books	2	4	5	N	N	A Blockbuster title...with no late fees	This is a lightweight tome about an unusual man.<br />Like him or loathe him, Sumner Redstone is a character and in this book what you read is about Sumner Redstone, a man of steel.<br />There is much to be admired about Mr. Redstone but not his writing skills. This unabashed self-promoting autobiography is not a bad read but it really does not get to the essence of the man and his business dealings.<br />One is reminded of Shakespeare's withering description &quot;but Caesar is an honourable man&quot; which served to cast doubt on the character of Caesar. I am not saying that there is anything bad with Sumner Redstone but the reader is left with the impression of our hero marching into battle at the head of a small, timid, lacking in confidence army. Granted he is a survivor and granted that he has got good business acumen but where, as they say, is the beef?<br />This is a story of Sumner first and foremost, a larger than life character while the other figures he interacts with are merely shadows in comparison.<br />Lest anyone get me wrong I have the utmost respect for this gentleman and believe that you do not get to run one of the biggest media corporations in the world by mere accident. But this book is not a fitting testament to the man. The world does not need the soft focus version of Sumner Redstone. What we do need is a no holds barred, warts and all unauthorised biography of the Viacom titan.<br />This is not the greates business book in the world. You can tell that by the fact that Blockbuster stores were required to sell it alongside their movie rentals before ultimately was taken from the shelves. Unlike a lot of the things you get from Blockbuster there are no late fees attached to this book. Says it all really.	2002-03-24
US	49834367	R3D5CCOJE8V922	0582297079	947309349	Markets, Intervention and Planning (Longman Economics Series)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Excellent Introductory Text. Sorry Brians...reader.	This little book is an excellent introductory text to the changing economic policies applied in Britain in the 1980s and which exemplified the changing policies which came to be applied throughout the world.<br />Two of the authors, Brian Snowdon and Peter Wynarczyk, developed some of the ideas contained herein in more advanced texts also available through Amazon.<br />Markets, Intervention and Planning is set in the context of the decline of economic liberalism being supplanted by the Keynesian revolution which itself was overwhelmed by the monetarist counter-revolution. The authors, all members of the economics faculty of Newcastle Polytechnic (now the University of Northumbria at Newcastle) offer differing approaches to the central problem of the extent to which government should be involved in the economy. Writing this review in 2002, one cannot help but ask the further question of how does one define government and it's limits but I digress.<br />There is a considerable degree of variety in this book, described as a reader not a textbook, variety of perspective, variety of rigour, a variety of styles but for me the variety itself is one of the strengths of the book and it's attractions. Economics is a discipline which is hard to pin down. There are many competing schools of thought and no right answers yet despite it's pretence at being a science. This book should alert people to the fact that there are considerable differences within the subject and those differences should be valued.<br />Some highlights of the book for me are the two chapters by Roper and Snowdon for their succint and balanced overview and incisive  concluding remarks, the Snowdon chapter on the changing fortunes of macroeconomics and Wynarczyk's considered exploration of the feasibilty of a pure market system. There are many good points to this book and all the authors are to be commended for their clarity of thought and comprehensible exposition.<br />There are very few economics departments who could work together in such a fashion to produce a volume of such a high standard as this. It seems however, that there were no others produced by this particular group.<br />This book is a useful starting point for anyone interested in tracing developments in economic policy in the UK during the 1980s. Whilst it is not necessarily a rigorous text, it certainly points up many of the issues and raises many questions which the serious student can pursue elsewhere.ts who could work together in such a fashion to produce a volume of such a high standard as this. It seems however, that there were no others produced by this particular group.<br />This book is a useful starting point for anyone interested in tracing developments in economic policy in the UK during the 1980s. Whilst it is not necessarily a rigorous text, it certainly points up many of the issues and raises many questions which the serious student can pursue elsewhere.	2002-03-23
US	49834367	R26H1AQM3HVEC	1852788844	259017232	A Modern Guide to Macroeconomics: An Introduction to Competing Schools of Thought	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Macroeconomics...and in their own words!	The central purpose of this book is to make sense of the fierce issues and debates concerning modern macroeconomics.<br />The authors suggest that the text be used alongside a basic macroeconomics textbook or as a main text in itself.<br />It is an excellent introduction to what is recognised as a controversial area of economics. The analogy of climbing a mountain and not being able to see the landscape is a very pertinent one.<br />There may be disagreements about the content of this book. Indeed it is easy to adopt a position about exclusions but this is a side issue. The format of an historical perspective in the development of ideas coupled with a consideration of the major positions within the debate works well.<br />It is clear from reading the text that the authors are very familiar with the subject matter and that each has contributed to the individual chapters on the specialist areas in a way which carries along the general reader.<br />Two particular things stand out for me in this text. The first is the section within the first chapter devoted to methodological issues and the associated section on rhetoric in economics. This is a key to a comprehensive understanding of the nature of the debate and the competing schools of thought involved.<br />The other standout aspect of this book is the interviews with various protaganists of the differing schools. Some pretty big names here including that of Nobel Prize Winner, James Tobin who only died last week. And what interviews. Not for these authors the standard sort of awe-struck beholden interviews but foccussed on the central points of the debate, exploratory questions which give real insight into the people and the issues involved. An excellent approach and one which has proved to be very successfully applied.<br />The final chapter, Conclusions and Reflections provides an outstanding summation and is followed by a comprehensive bibliography.<br />This book manages to convey in written form the full extent and depth of the macroeconomic debate such that it is intelligible to the educated reader without resorting to more mathematics than are absolutely needed and for that the authors are to be applauded.<br />In summing up this is a very valuable text which will be an asset to every macroeconomics course reading list.and depth of the macroeconomic debate such that it is intelligible to the educated reader without resorting to more mathematics than are absolutely needed and for that the authors are to be applauded.<br />In summing up this is a very valuable text which will be an asset to every macroeconomics course reading list.	2002-03-21
US	49834367	R3J3LMZC9VK4UC	1857882210	882199084	Breaking Through Culture Shock: What You Need to Succeed in International Business	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Breaking down invisible barriers to success.	Despite the praise for this book from a senior partner in Arthur Andersen which graces the first page of the text, this is an excellent management text.<br />As an ex Englishman near New York, one of the surprising things to learn, and thus the point of this book, is that cultural differences can affect us and our work performances.<br />It is often said that Britain and America are separated by a common language but this does not really convey the full extent of the differences between the two nations. The situation is made more difficult by the fact that American culture has established a hedgemony around the world and particularly so in the UK.<br />This book is a must read for anyone accepting a post in a foreign country and anyone relocating abroad. Indeed some of the lessons of this book can be usefully applied to different jobs not just different countries.<br />I like the structure of the book and in particular the focus on the book as a tool to be used and not just read. The use of case studies is very helpful although I personally do not appreciate the manner in which they are written. I would have liked some of them at least to be expressed in a more formal manner with actual references to be used where possible but this is a minor gripe.<br />Breaking through Culture Shock is written in a very user friendly manner and in a size that is easily followed.<br />Elisabeth Marx really has hit the nail on the head with this text which has a broad scope great applicability across the continents. My one concern  would be with Chapter 5 where she looks at some country specific cases but which excludes Japan. Given that country's importance to business in the world one would think that it warranted inclusion.<br />That aside, I would highly recommend this book to anyone thinking about embarking on a move abroad and those who have already made a move, whether it be temporary or permanent.<br />Just a thought, but it would be interesting to see an American author tackle this subject in the same way.kle this subject in the same way.	2002-03-19
US	49834367	R51K6N6FY9M9F	0255364814	581364440	Hayek, Currency Competition and European Monetary Union: Eighth Annual Iea Hayek Memorial Lecture	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Monopolists Hate Competition especially in Money	It is a little disconcerting to follow the review of such a distinguished authority as Herr Tietmeyer but here goes.<br />The Annual Hayek Lecture Series is one of the major events of the year for the Institute of Economic Affairs, the London based free market think-tank. In 1999 the Institute invited Herr Otmar Issing, previously member of the board at the Bundesbank and currently an Executive member of the European Central Bank, to deliver the lecture. Professor Her Issing chose as his subject, Hayek, Currency Competition and European Monetary Union.<br />It is instructive some thirteen weeks after the introduction of the Euro to revisit this text and see how his argument holds up.<br />The lecturer begins with an acknowledgement of Hayek's contributions in several areas of politics and economics before consideration of his seminal paper for the IEA, \\"Choice in Currency: A Way to Stop Infation\\", and the later paper, \\"Denationalisation of Money\\".<br />In what follows Issing lays out as he sees it the essential concepts of Hayek's proposal before proceeding to establish through carefully argued analysis, a connection with the single European currency.<br />In his conclusions to the paper Issing suggests that having a single European Central Bank and a single European currency are the true heirs to hayek's legacy given that they will accomplish what Hayek himself had set out as his ultimate objectives.<br />Issing's case here is a travesty of the Hayek proposal, based as it is on the selective interpretation and misuse of the texts to substantiate his argument. In fact, if anything the single currency will do more harm than good as it is now in use in a European Union which does not have a single market, and where there are many barriers to internal trade and factor mobility. The so-called independence of the central bank is a falsehood. Consider the similar independence of the Bundesbank when Chancellor Kohl established the exchange rate between East and West German currencies. The continued high level of unemployment in the East of that country is a lingering testament to that political interference.<br />Similarly, the independence of the Central Bank cannot be guaranteed as the current jockying for positions by the French President, among others shows.<br />Having said that, this book provides a stimulating look inside the mind of a central banker, whose mindset now reflects that of the institution that employs him. Despite the attempted hijacking of the ideas of a great economist, this book deserves to be read by anyone with an interest in monetary economics.currencies. The continued high level of unemployment in the East of that country is a lingering testament to that political interference.<br />Similarly, the independence of the Central Bank cannot be guaranteed as the current jockying for positions by the French President, among others shows.<br />Having said that, this book provides a stimulating look inside the mind of a central banker, whose mindset now reflects that of the institution that employs him. Despite the attempted hijacking of the ideas of a great economist, this book deserves to be read by anyone with an interest in monetary economics.	2002-03-17
US	49834367	R3OYA40K2A0JDD	0786866020	257333183	Fish: A Proven Way to Boost Morale and Improve Results	Books	1	12	18	N	N	Fish? Where's the beef?	There is a more substantial tale in this little book than in Who Moved My Cheese but it suffers from the same drawbacks.<br />As a sideshow in a management education course then this is really OK but as a serious contribution to improving management it does not pass muster.<br />Fish is a well written, cautionary tale of attitude at the workplace. It has a serious message and I am sure that it has some applicability.<br />Part of the reason that I am against these types of management parables is that by their very existance it shows that we as managers in business are failing in our duties to inculcate these attitudes in our staff. It says an awful lot about us that it requires such books to get the job done.<br />In a way, my attitude in writing this review is wrong. I do not have a particularly positive attitude about it. We all want a happy workplace and we, as managers, should use every tool in the manager's toolbox to achieve this. Some employees sneak through the net and are not happy, positive people and they reuire more attention than the others. In many areas though, the current structure of jobs mitigates having happy employees. When many people are having to work at two jobs just to make ends meet they may have a happy and positive disposition but they may also be having to work many long hours and look to work as only a source of income.<br />I found the message in this book to be a good one. It held my interest throughout. The author has a good writing style which  holds the readers attention.<br />I encouraged others to read it. Despite it's brevity, they as managers, did not have the time. I passed the book on to no-managers.  Few people read it. The ones that did had only a cursory recollection of the contents. The video worked better but it was talked through. Our asscoiates want instant gratification. They do not want to read, and most see no value in reading which most associate with school.<br />This book and it's ilk should tell us that we need to go back to the drawing board in training and developing managers. We do need to get this particular message over but we need to find a better way to do it.to go back to the drawing board in training and developing managers. We do need to get this particular message over but we need to find a better way to do it.	2002-03-17
US	49834367	R1M35QLM842AZD	0399144463	305463091	Who Moved My Cheese?: An Amazing Way to Deal with Change in Your Work and in Your Life	Books	1	6	8	N	N	This cheese is off!	It is a sad state of affairs when such a book rides high at the top of the best selling charts and is being paraded as an essential management text.<br />Classes and programs have been spawned by it, it is almost de rigeur for companies to recommend to their district and store managers and it is marketed with such messianic glee that one almost expect it's words to be written in stone.<br />Not that there is anything wrong with the central message of this book. Change and flexibility are the watchwords and to that extent this book should be applauded. Similarly, if this book were to be aimed at a target audience of line supervisors only then it might be appropriate.<br />Let me not be churlish. I am happy that the authors have found commercial success with their product. Looking at the bigger picture however, there are serious issues involved.<br />Is management being so dumbed down that in order to get a basic message across we, as a society, can only get an important message across with the aid of a lightweight parable about cheese and mice, replete with pictures and an explanatory homily at the end? The implications for the economic success of our country could not be clearer. For all of the tomes on management published each year management quality and productivity must be falling.<br />Change is part and parcel of the capitalist sytem. It is inherent even pervasive in everything in the private sector. As such it is part of the process of management anyway to manage change. Even more so change has been a significantly larger part of the economic landscape in the last twenty years or so through corporate downsizing, outsourcing and much more yet the message has apparently not got through.<br />Management, as life, is much more complicated than this book would make it seem. Use this book to read to your children at bedtime. Urge managers to look for more substantial management texts. We need them to.	2002-03-17
US	49834367	R1QKFKJOQNQX9M	0255364245	80867119	Morals and Markets: Seventh Annual Hayek Memorial Lecture (IEA Occasional Paper 108)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Morals and markets - two blades of the scissors?	This book began life as the text of seventh annual Institute of Economic Affairs Hayek Memorial Lecture given by Professor Jonathan Sacks, Chief Rabbi of the United Hebrew Congregations of the Commonwealth in June 1998.<br />Dr. Sacks approach was based on a debate that Hayek had proposed in 1978 on the question of \\"was socialism a mistake\\". Although the debate never took place, Hayek prepared for it by writing a manuscript which ultimately saw the light of day as \\"The Fatal Conceit\\".<br />Beginning from the thesis that the Fatal Conceit's essential premise eas that for the free market or extended order to emerge, a certain kind of morality needed to emerge also. He develops his argument through  a scholarly exegesis beforeutimately arriving at a conclusion that the free market has gone too far such that in effect it has become it's own morality and morals/ethics have been subordinated.<br />This conclusion is challenged by the the three commentators who were asked to write in response due to the reception received by the lecture. Dr. Sacks was also asked to write a rejoinder.<br />Norman Barry contends, if I understand him correctly, that markets bring about change and that morality must be adaptive and flexible. Thus the issue is not one of no morality but is one of the changing rules which come about ultimately because markets do not have a life of their own. They a rise through the interaction of people in a social process.<br />Robert Davidson looks at the role of traditions in religion and the necessity to test them against the reality of the world. In another illuminating passage he refers to the division of labor within society and argues that theologians have a role in giving people a vision of hope.<br />Michael Novak, takes a different approach by looking at what the world owes to Judaism, articulating the notion that it, as Christianity, is not a monolithic tradition.<br />In his rejoinder, Dr. Sacks takes the opportunity to clarify his position. He argues that he is not against markets, per se, but that he is against the extension of markets into all aspects of life. He fears that such extension will result in social disaster and makes the case that markets and the free society can only succeed within a strong moral framework.<br />The lecture was described as stimulating. After reading this collection there is clearly much food for thought. In this excellent little book there is much for all of us to think about.<br />Highly commended for everyone.ues that he is not against markets, per se, but that he is against the extension of markets into all aspects of life. He fears that such extension will result in social disaster and makes the case that markets and the free society can only succeed within a strong moral framework.<br />The lecture was described as stimulating. After reading this collection there is clearly much food for thought. In this excellent little book there is much for all of us to think about.<br />Highly commended for everyone.	2002-03-15
US	49834367	RDY5JLT9NB99G	0255364024	346539452	Less Than Zero: The Case for a Falling Price Level in a Growing Economy (HOBART PAPERS)	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Should the Price Level be allowed to fall?	The Editorial Director of the Institute of Economic Affairs, a London based think tank, records in his forward to Professor Selgin's book that the counter-revolution in economics has resulted in a revival of classical liberal ideas. Later he notes that the central argument of the book, is a monetary policy that permitted prices to vary with changes in productivity ie a productivity norm. The author, in his research, claims that the idea was considered by 19th century thinkers but was almost lost under the tidal wave of Keynesian ideas.<br />This paper finds particular relevance at the moment when interest rates in the United States and Japan are close to zero.<br />Professor Selgin begins the book with a note on the current view of monetary policy being directed at achieving a price level at or close to zero. The idea of monetary expansion as a means of achieving full employment has been discredited. He introduces his concept of a variable price level with reference to a productivity norm and establishes basic ideas about productivity.<br />From here he begins to develop his concept in greater detail, looking at the case for a zero price level before moving on to consider the issue of productivity and relative prices. The argument he develops uses historial evidence as well as a little formal analysis involving 4 Aggregate Supply/Demand diagrams but the level of rigour is not too onerous for the general reader.<br />A brief chapter considering the effects of a productivity norm on contracts between debtors and creditors before Professor Selgin moves to the Historical Implications of a productivity norm. In this chapter he sets out a number of examples from history whereby falling price levels were considered to be signs of depression and rising ones to be a sign of excessive monetary expansion. In each case he sets out to establish whether or not these were actual depressions and in each case he discovers that the facts reveal otherwise.<br />In the penultimate chapter, the practical implications of a productivity norm are considered. In his concluding remarks, Professor Selgin considers why this proposal has not enjoyed more support from the professional economic community.<br />This book deserves serious consideration and should be on the reading list of every student of macroeconomics, public policy makers and your everyday central banker. The text, at times alittle dry, is challenging buy mainly user friendly. Well worth persisting with.ter, the practical implications of a productivity norm are considered. In his concluding remarks, Professor Selgin considers why this proposal has not enjoyed more support from the professional economic community.<br />This book deserves serious consideration and should be on the reading list of every student of macroeconomics, public policy makers and your everyday central banker. The text, at times alittle dry, is challenging buy mainly user friendly. Well worth persisting with.	2002-03-14
US	49834367	R2GJUDZ4NJHOJ	0255363303	65369540	Winning the War on Drugs: To Legalise or Not? (Iea Hobart Paper Series : No. 124)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	The Case against selectiveness in drug proscription	This is a very important book which deserves to be read by anyone and everyone who has an interest in the drugs business.<br />The book is a very comprehensive treatment (pardon the pun) of the case for the legalisation of drugs. Although the study is applicable to Britain it also has a general applicability elsewhere.<br />For me the value of this book lies in it's general consideration of the public policy making process. What emerges from the case of legalisation of drugs is a strong public choice view of the interests of the politicians and bureaucrats involved in the drugs trade. The growing funds available to those fighting in the war against drugs may not achieve success in the sense of a growing number of arrests and confiscations and a reduced supply of the drugs themselves but can be considered successful in the sense that there are more police, drug enforcement officers, more managers, administrators, more bureaucrats but there are wider powers of stop and search, of bank accounts frozen and assets confiscated, more powerful and advanced equipment etc.<br />Comparisons of the illegal trade in drugs and the legal trade in accepted drugs such as alcohol, cigarettes or chocolate, or the slightly more restricted trade in drugs such as prozac etc, show how much of the funds available to enforcement agencies could be redirected into criminal investigations where there are identifiable victims and where the success and glamour rates are much lower.<br />Above all, this is a phoney war. It is indicative of a fettered society where certain practices are outlawed because they do not fit the public values of the elites who manage our society yet who avail themselves of those practices. We live in a hypocritical society where drug use and payment for sexual services are pervasive yet are both categorised as illegal as well as immoral.<br />The case for the legalisation of drugs is often obscured by reference to the resulting addiction to so-called hard drugs despite the lack of clear evidence. What continues to surprise is the fact that under a legalised system combined with normal business regulation, usage would be much more transparent. This would allow the more accurate use of resources to help people with their own problems which lead to their dependency. It is beyond belief that people cannot see how the resources currently used against petty theft, burglary and prostitution which result from drug users having to find the funds to pay for their drug consumption could be more usefully deployed, not to mention the reductions in those categories that would be reduced.<br />This is a well written, well argued book that makes an excellent case for the legalisation of drugs. Together with a recent declaration of a change in thinking amongst senior police officers, it is a welcome addition to the literature and debate on the subject.<br />Should be required reading for every politician.the lack of clear evidence. What continues to surprise is the fact that under a legalised system combined with normal business regulation, usage would be much more transparent. This would allow the more accurate use of resources to help people with their own problems which lead to their dependency. It is beyond belief that people cannot see how the resources currently used against petty theft, burglary and prostitution which result from drug users having to find the funds to pay for their drug consumption could be more usefully deployed, not to mention the reductions in those categories that would be reduced.<br />This is a well written, well argued book that makes an excellent case for the legalisation of drugs. Together with a recent declaration of a change in thinking amongst senior police officers, it is a welcome addition to the literature and debate on the subject.<br />Should be required reading for every politician.	2002-03-13
US	49834367	RFEM5AXMX0PNH	0521010683	572523055	The Skeptical Environmentalist: Measuring the Real State of the World	Books	5	16	34	N	Y	Deserves to be read, whether you believe it or not!	I will keep this review short and to the point.<br />I would like to make my position clear - I believe in the efficacy of the free market system.<br />Why should anyone read this book? Well there is only one answer. To make up your own mind.<br />The controversy surrounding this particular author is not my concern. I am sure that he can fight his own battles.<br />My concern is that if I want to know about what is happening to the environment I want to be able to get the facts from somewhere. I do not trust government statistics, nor do I neccessarily trust the information I get from any sort of organisation that has an axe to grind for one side of the other.<br />To the extent one can trust the scientific community, which is not value free, one should be able to go to published sources and find the information that one seeks. If we do not have the required level of technical expertise we are forced to rely on others to translate accurately the science into English.<br />This book performs an important function for us, as non-scientific members of our community. We owe it to ourselves to read this book and make up our own minds about the information which is made available to us.<br />I am sure that the vast majority of us are concerned about the environment whatever our personal beliefs. We need to make informed decsions based on the best information possible and in my view that means that we should ALL be skeptical.<br />As Bob Dylan so eloquently put it:<br />Don't follow leaders follow parking meters!	2002-03-09
US	49834367	R2WAAWXBY39G4Y	0255364261	598177851	Regulation Without the State (Occasional Paper, 109)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Who shall guard the Guardians?	The question of the how business should be regulated has recently become a much more important one in the wake of the Enron collapse. It seems that the reactionary response to the loss of the investments of thousands of Enron employees is to look to the government for action. Perhaps it is understandable given the human tragedy involved to look to the state as the administrative and judicial wheels grind slowly and the prospect of recovery of losses and questionable transactions looks especially dim.<br />Regulation has gradually assumed a greater role over the last twenty years given the rolling back of the state throughout the world since the economic crises of the 1970s. In Britain, the privatisation, liberalisation and competition policies followed by the Thatcher governments and others, prompted a growth in regulatory bodies mainly, but not always concerned with the newly private utilities. Corporate governance also spawned regulators and these too have spread across the world.<br />I refer to Britain here, although this book has a wider audience in mind, because this is where this important book originated. The authors are the General Director and Editorial Director of the Institute of Economic Affairs, a highly respected free market think tank based in London. The basic premise of the book is that markets can only flourish within a legal framework of rules. This is a simple concept but one which is at the heart of a raging controversy over who should make the rules.<br />This may sound like an esoteric argument but it is crucial one in trying to define the limits to government.<br />Most people assume that the role of the state is to establish the rules that society must abide by. The assumption is considered \\"natural\\" these days but if one thinks of this critically, it is only because government has grown so much that it impinges in more aspects of our lives than ever before. In fact the way in which people act and behave is more the result of our interaction with other people.<br />Robinson and Blundell argue that the economic case for regulation generates an ideal standard as it's solution which is unattainable in the real world and therefore requires greater state intervention than is necessary. State regulation, indeed any regulation, is not free and imposes costs on society. As those costs are often hidden, public choice theory tells us that regulatory bodies tend to expand more than it ought and that they have a tendency to be 'captured' by sectional interest groups.<br />The answer, in Blundell and Robinson's view, is the establishment of voluntary rules, with legal remedies, which would be more flexible and would adapt to changing conditions. Furthermore, voluntary rules lead to the creation of voluntary forms of protection and they are often a much cheaper to the state based form. Ultimately, the argument is distilled to an essential essence, the best form of regulation is competition and as much of it as possible.<br />One thing has become clear in recent years and that is that if there must be regulation then society must choose between detailed regulation which is very specific and covers almost every eventuality, or general rule regulation which is flexible. Detail regulation is a lawyers paradise and leaves open the prospect of breach by the smart through ingenious solutions whereas general rule regulation allows discretion. It seems that the latter is the better option but not the one that government necessarily chooses.<br />I would highly recommend this book to any practitioner of the evil arts of government.n with other people.<br />Robinson and Blundell argue that the economic case for regulation generates an ideal standard as it's solution which is unattainable in the real world and therefore requires greater state intervention than is necessary. State regulation, indeed any regulation, is not free and imposes costs on society. As those costs are often hidden, public choice theory tells us that regulatory bodies tend to expand more than it ought and that they have a tendency to be 'captured' by sectional interest groups.<br />The answer, in Blundell and Robinson's view, is the establishment of voluntary rules, with legal remedies, which would be more flexible and would adapt to changing conditions. Furthermore, voluntary rules lead to the creation of voluntary forms of protection and they are often a much cheaper to the state based form. Ultimately, the argument is distilled to an essential essence, the best form of regulation is competition and as much of it as possible.<br />One thing has become clear in recent years and that is that if there must be regulation then society must choose between detailed regulation which is very specific and covers almost every eventuality, or general rule regulation which is flexible. Detail regulation is a lawyers paradise and leaves open the prospect of breach by the smart through ingenious solutions whereas general rule regulation allows discretion. It seems that the latter is the better option but not the one that government necessarily chooses.<br />I would highly recommend this book to any practitioner of the evil arts of government.	2002-03-09
US	49834367	R1DFGANPQ2TL1L	0312159978	545743425	Explorations in Economic Liberalism: The Wincott Lectures	Books	5	0	0	N	N	What Better Memorial to a fine Business Journalist	This book is a collection of some of the Lectures given in honour of Harold Wincott, a journalist on the London Financial Times who died at an early age in 1969. Wincott was a journalist who throughout his career championed liberal capitalism in the face of an ascendant and then dominant Keynesian economic consensus. Ahead of his time Wincott was one of a few voices in the wilderness whose time came as the sixties and seventies developed into times of economic crises when the limits of keynesianism and collectivism were brutally exposed. Upon his death two of the stalwarts of the free market think-tank, the Institute of Economic Affairs, Ralph (later Lord) Harris and Graham Hutton organised a charitable appeal to establish a Foundation in his name. The appeal reached and exceeded it's target in a short space of time and the Wincott Foundation has since then organised an annual lecture series and awards to financial journalists. I would highly commend to Amazon readers \\"The Business of Capitalism\\" which brings together a selection of Harold Wincott's Financial Times articles.<br />Explorations in Economic Liberalism contains some of the Wincott Lectures. Over the years some of the most famous free market economists in the world have used the opportunity of an invitation to speak at a Wincott lecture to bring to a wider audience some of the most theoretical concepts in a clear and understandable manner which I am sure would have met with Harold Wincott's total approval.<br />Milton Friedman begins the volume with a paper on the counter-revolution in monetary theory which is a lucid exposition of the central tenents of monetarism. James Meade , in the second paper apllies his customary analytical skill to a consideration of wages and pricing in a mixed economy with particular emphasis on the labor market. Friedrich Hayek's concern is with the temptations which bear on democratically elected government and their subsequent impact on the economic system. Lionel Robbins looks at postwar economic policy in Britain while Alan Peacock looks at the survival of liberal economic ideas and their promulgation in the future.<br />Alan Walters main concern too is the performance of the British economy in the post war years and the crucial role that money plays in the economic system. George Stigler examines the relationship between business and regulation and argues for less of the latter. Deepak Lal offers a critique of developmental planning in the third world in view of the overwhelnming evidence being collected against it. Anna Schwartz returns to the question of money in her exposition on currency boards while finally Jagdish Bhagwati further promotes the benefits to be gained from free trade in a paper concerning the new World Trade  Organisation.<br />This volume offers a wealth of economic ideas from some of best minds in economics in a way that can be understood by the average reader. While some of the concepts may be difficult one common theme is that freedom benefits everyone through free markets and free trade. Governments, supposedly for the people have their own agenda and their own interests at heart. It is an excellent book and should be on the reading lists of any worthwhile economics program.ooks at postwar economic policy in Britain while Alan Peacock looks at the survival of liberal economic ideas and their promulgation in the future.<br />Alan Walters main concern too is the performance of the British economy in the post war years and the crucial role that money plays in the economic system. George Stigler examines the relationship between business and regulation and argues for less of the latter. Deepak Lal offers a critique of developmental planning in the third world in view of the overwhelnming evidence being collected against it. Anna Schwartz returns to the question of money in her exposition on currency boards while finally Jagdish Bhagwati further promotes the benefits to be gained from free trade in a paper concerning the new World Trade  Organisation.<br />This volume offers a wealth of economic ideas from some of best minds in economics in a way that can be understood by the average reader. While some of the concepts may be difficult one common theme is that freedom benefits everyone through free markets and free trade. Governments, supposedly for the people have their own agenda and their own interests at heart. It is an excellent book and should be on the reading lists of any worthwhile economics program.	2002-03-08
US	49834367	RP9IHBY44WP4	0297790803	587035543	Selling the State	Books	5	0	0	N	N	The government policy that became a word - Privatisation	It is often difficult for American readers to understand the difficulties for people living in Britain up until the 1980s. For so long the population had been saddled by the yoke of socialism so that the only people who were free in any real sense of the word were those who were affluent and could afford to choose.<br />In a sense it was socialism that made Britain such a quaint country to visit because everyone was secure in the knowledge that things would not change and if changes occurred they would do so slowly.<br />To take only one example, if you had gas in your home and you used it for heating and cooking, if things went wrong you had to call the Gas Board. They would determine the degree of urgency of your case and dispatch a service engineer accordingly. Depending on when HE arrived, he would decide if and when the appliance could be repaired, if he had the parts or needed to order them etc. To pay your bills you had to either go to the Gas Board showroom or mail a check. If you wanted to buy an appliance you had to buy it at a Gas Board showroom in of course, any colour you liked so long as they offered it. Installation was to meet their precise standards. None of this shopper's choice!<br />Cento Veljanovski has written a magisterial account of privatisation in Britain up until 1988. His book reflects on the experience in Britain which led to the policy of privatisation being introduced and the various forms that it took and some of the obstacles the policy faced. Part of the significance of the book is that it was the first book on the subject and set avery high standard for others to follow.<br />This book is rigorous yet at the same time written in such a way as to be understood by the intelligent layman. It provides comprehensive coverage of the suject matter and draws distinctions between privatisation as the opposite of nationalisation and other policies applied to the liberalisation of the British economy. This in itself is a process whose course has yet to run and which needs to be applied throughout Europe.<br />Dr. Veljanovski is also alert to the implications for public policy and the requirements for regulation, noting the various forms of the same and alluding to some of the problems which would later emerge. These problems are well covered in the Institute of Economic Affairs publications of London Business School lectures on regulation series from 1992 onwards.<br />Selling the State set the standard for others to follow. I highly recommend this book to anyone interested in public policy in general and to competition and regulation in particular.has yet to run and which needs to be applied throughout Europe.<br />Dr. Veljanovski is also alert to the implications for public policy and the requirements for regulation, noting the various forms of the same and alluding to some of the problems which would later emerge. These problems are well covered in the Institute of Economic Affairs publications of London Business School lectures on regulation series from 1992 onwards.<br />Selling the State set the standard for others to follow. I highly recommend this book to anyone interested in public policy in general and to competition and regulation in particular.	2002-03-08
US	49834367	RRXGHDG01MPVE	0255359853	67256985	Education and the State	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Why Government has No Business being in education	Education is in vogue. The president of the United States was on television just the other day with the latest plan to throw money at education in the forlorn hope that the public school system can be improved.<br />In England a book called class action has just been published by a controversial ex-Chief Inspector of Schools who calls for radical action to correct deficiencies in education. According to recent government statistics, last year in England and Wales, examination results for high school students were better than ever. According to these figures results have been improving year on year for some time. The reality in state education is that increasingly in public education throughout the world the schools are failing to teach children. Education has become a business in it's own right and also has been used as a means to keep our young people out of unemployment. A whole support system has been constructed including teacher training colleges which has failed to produce good teachers and which sucks in more of taxpayer dollars year after year. Class sizes have shrunk, teacher and librarian salaries along with educational administrators salaries have grown yet large swathes of the population are illiterate and innumerate.<br />Professor West's book, now in it's third edition traces the real history of education from it's private origins to the nationalisation which currently exists throughout the world. Whereas the first two editions of the book foccussed on the United Kingdom, the most recent edition looks at America and finds similar results. This book offers compelling and chillinmg evidence of the failure of the state in education. It deserves to be read by everyone involved in policy-making and in education. It deserves to be put into condensed form by Readers Digest and made available to everone with a stake in education.	2002-03-08
US	49834367	R2GGXZCWFE6OYL	0948115017	879329605	"New Right" Enlightenment: Young Authors on the Spectre That Haunts the Left	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Dedicated to socialists of all parties who are now free	Written in 1985 this collection of essays edited by Arthur Seldon, a student of Friedrich Hayek and Editorial director of the Institute of Economic Affairs, a free market think tank based in London, is a testament to the longevity of free market and classical liberal ideas.<br />In his preface to the book, Hayek recounts how the spirit of socialism swept through the minds and hearts of the young in his early years when the power of socialist ideals and the role of the state held out the promise of eradication of the great evils of the human condition. He recalls his message in the Road to Serfdom of the perils of following the road to collectivism which were ignored by all the powers, great and small alike and that by the 1970s he feared that socialism had swept all before it.<br />This book exemplifies the power of ideas to bring about cataclysmic changes in scoiety.It charts the loss of faith in the power of the state to achieve lasting change for the better and the recognition that socialsm for all it's pretence is really the power of envy and coercion. The authors contained within it's covers are mainly young writers and scholars who for a variety of reasons have chosen the path of freedom at a time where it was still unfashionale to do so. They and others like them have been at the vanguard of the fight to show the failures of socialism and collectivism. They have been instrumental in bringing the ideas of freedom to a new generation of people brought up within the cocoon of a welfare state, educated to believe that individual effort should be subordinated to cradle-to-grave state action, but a generation who understands that this does not work.<br />The authors of the New Right Enlightenment help to provide the intellectual tools to set the people free. Arthur Seldon has played no small role in that process. In his modest way he has been the inspiration to most of these young British writers and to many in Britain who have hade the yoke of serfdom removed from their shoulders, he will remain unknown.their shoulders, he will remain unknown.	2002-03-07
US	49834367	R348XJI4PIDZW9	0710079354	747034068	Selected Economic Essays and Addresses	Books	5	0	0	N	N	The Last Economist of the Old Classical Liberal School?	Sir Arnold Plant is one of the most under-rated economists of the Victorian era. Born in 1898, he had a long career in academia including the Sir Ernest Cassel Professor of Commerce at the University of London, a position he held from 1930 to 1965.<br />This collection of essays was edited By Arthur Seldon, who was Plant's Research Assistant at the LSE after completing his postfraduate studies and who later found fame at the Institute of Economic Affairs as Editorial Director.<br />Plant's publications were relatively few in number and confined mainly to academic journals, yet he gained a considerable reputation as a teacher and lecturer.<br />In this volume, Plant applies his considerable intellect to issues which were considered unfashionable at the time such as immigration and property ownership from a classical liberal perspective. Also contained within it are six articles on economic processes including a review of a book of articles in honour of Friedrich von Hayek, the Nobel Economics winner.<br />Arnold Plant's career spanned the end of Classical economics and the beginning of neo-classical. His life spanned the end of the liberal British economy and it's replacement by growing state control and the further re-emergence of the free market as a dominant force in the UK economy.<br />These essays command attention from students of economic policy both in Britain and elsewhere. Particularly germane are his articles on immigration in light of the controversy in Europe concerning decling populations.<br />I would commend this book to anyone who is concerned with the wider application of market processes or the history of economic thought.	2002-03-05
US	49834367	R32MOPTYH92U9J	0819178233	75498064	The Spirit of Democratic Capitalism	Books	4	20	26	N	N	A Prayer of Capitalism	...<br />This is an important book. It links the liberal democratic order of capitalism with the Judeo-Christian moral tradition and thus at once removes capitalism from being a secular, non-discriminatory form of free market exchange to a human set of relationships between individuals based on a moral code.<br />Whether or not all philosophers would agree with that thesis is another issue. Since the enlightenment when religious authority was usurped and the secular society emerged, religion has been under attack in developed societies and today many in organized religions decry the relatavistic nature of our behaviour.<br />That said this is a book that should be read by anyone interested in the concept of the ethical corporate governance. It is a difficult book to read due to the densely written arguemnts which require close reading. It is a challenging book in many ways, especially to those who have strong personal belief systems. Nevertheless, Novak makes a strong case and his exposition deserves to be taken to a wider audience<br />My thoughts upon rereading this book again recently were that there is a need for a similar book to relate Capatilism to other major religions in a way which transcends any one religion in particular. In the light of recent events too there is  a case for a treatise which relates Capitalism to the Moslem world to show that it is an inclusive rather than an exclusive social system.	2002-03-03
US	49834367	R1KT8LDC48QAGI	0415061636	508346613	Recent Controversies in Political Economy	Books	5	0	0	N	N	The Relevance of Markets to British Political Economy	Oh, how things have changed. In the mid-1950s to be a free market economist in Britain was a lot like being a leper. Considered a reactionary by peers and politicians alike, the free marketeer was seen as an anachronism and not relevant to the modern world. In the midst of the Keynesian Empire, the Institute of Economic Affairs was established, a solitary outpost of freedom. The story of the Institute has been told elsewhere (Thinking the Unthinkable by Richard Cockett), and in today's world it is hard to imagine the difficulties faced by the founders in the face of the intellectual adversity which existed.<br />The Journal of Economic Affairs, later just Economic Affairs, was first published in the late 1970s. More topical than the other series of IEA publications, the journal offered the opportunity of shorter articles, as always characterised by the sharp editing skills of the redoubtable Arthur Seldon, on any and every aspect of life which may be subject to the influence of the state.<br />As always the Institute and it's journal were concerned with the central role of markets. Whereas the books and papers were largely directed at academics and policy-makers, the journal was directed at a wider audience and in particular, students. The format changed over the years but generally was a mixture of long and short articles written by academics and professionals with academic rigour but written in terms that could be understood by the layman. In short the purpose of the journal (I hate to call it a magazine) was to bring the sometimes esoteric arguments about markets to the wider public. And it succeeded. As I write this review in early 2002 the Institute has a substantial student outreach programme, and Economic Affairs, in a rather revised format is required reading for students.<br />This book is a collection of articles taken from Economic Affairs over a period of about ten years which just happens to coincide with the Thatcher administrations terms of office. Within it's pages can be found papers which cover almost all of the ground that was the subject of intense debate as Britain finally came to terms with the dreadful impact of the lost years of Keynesian rule. Many of the papers continue to have validity today as the world economy, already beaten by economic slowdown, is battered by the impact of September 11. Keynesianism once again is rearing it's head, not a moment too soon for it's devotees. Other papers will still have relevance for the serious student of public policy. At the heart of all of the argument still lies the central issue of the relevance of markets in today's world and as such, the book like the magazine is still mightily relevant.thin it's pages can be found papers which cover almost all of the ground that was the subject of intense debate as Britain finally came to terms with the dreadful impact of the lost years of Keynesian rule. Many of the papers continue to have validity today as the world economy, already beaten by economic slowdown, is battered by the impact of September 11. Keynesianism once again is rearing it's head, not a moment too soon for it's devotees. Other papers will still have relevance for the serious student of public policy. At the heart of all of the argument still lies the central issue of the relevance of markets in today's world and as such, the book like the magazine is still mightily relevant.	2002-03-02
US	49834367	RS49GGUK6VG57	0841950288	262675209	Return to Free Market Economics?	Books	5	7	7	N	N	The darkest hour is just before the dawn.	Published on the eve of Mrs. Thatcher's election as British Prime Minister in 1979, this collection of papers by John Jewkes published between 1939 and 1978 stands as a free market beacon against the forces of collectivist darkness which had subsumed Britain especially from the onset of world war two.<br />Jewkes, along with a mere handful of others, held their ground aginst these forces, holding firm to a belief in people, that is a belief in the free market. It is hard to imagine in these days what it was like to live in the People's Republic of Great Britain in the post-war period, where the commanding heights of the economy had been overcome by the onslaught of government troops. The vast majority of economists, well meaning folks I am sure were the high priests of the new religion of planning, believing as they did in the New Jerusalem of steady growth and no unemployment.<br />Jewkes stood against the tide of the new paradigm and continued to harrass the enemy with the odd skirmish as contained in these writings. Today, some consider the battle to be won, that free markets rule, but more wiser heads see that progress has been made on the battlefield but the war is not yet over. The subjects of these essays have much contemporary relevance, and rereading them today reminds us that we should always be on our guard against erosion of our freedoms and against the return of the dark lords of planning.<br />Highly recommended!	2002-03-01
US	49834367	R3JMNRGSWK9LUZ	1874930236	352445252	The theory of collective bargaining	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Debunking collectivist myths in the age of Keynes.	This scholarly written monograph on the mythology of trade union bargaining in an essentially free market system preceded the Thatcher labor law reforms by 50 years. Yet the arguements set out therein still carry great force even today. Hutt begins with a review of Classical wage fund theory before moving on to consider socialist and English neo-classical concerns. His conclusions, in this brief and concise but well argued book, should not be surprising to us...that trade unions reduce real wages, that members wages are kept high because of job losses elsewhere to name but two, were pertinent then and even more so in the strike prone days of rampant trade union power and the abuse thereof, in the Britain of the 1970s. This book would be of interest to the student of the history of economic ideas or to the student of economic history in the present day.	2002-02-28
US	49834367	R9246AX0G2SUD	0312889801	678653412	Working-Class Patients and the Medical Establishment: Self-Help in Britain from the Mid-Nineteenth Century to 1948	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A true history of working class healthcare in Britain.	Most people who are familiar with a modicum of knowledge of world affairs know that in Britain there is socialised medicine. Indeed, if one follows Prime Minister's Question Time on Sunday evenings on C-SPAN, it is one of, if not the greatest, achievements of the Labour Party while in office.<br />The Labour Party prides itself on being the party of the working class and in that sense, the creation of a National Health Service free at the point of use was indeed a triumph. In the official history of Britain, it is recorded that way.<br />However, this is not the whole story. What Britain has is a National Health Service was funnels healthcare towards those who have the biggest political pull in the system, the middle classes. It is true that the system is free at the point of use but that is only one facet of the NHS. There is rationing - by time, by location, by employment, by social class - just not by price.<br />This book tells the story of a class betrayed by it's own political party. The (perhaps) unintended consequences of their actions resulted in power being transferred from the people and their organic institutions to the doctors which resulted in a powerful class of technocrats, heavily unionised, which run the health service today.<br />Working Class Patients charts the development of a private health care system run by working people themselves. It shows how those same people, the uneducated serfs as portrayed by Charles Dickens, rationally allocated part of their meagre incomes for healthcare, choosing doctors and holding them accountable. This book is a treasure trove for anyone interested in delving further into the development of state sponsored healthcare. It is rich in examples and detail and provides a scholarly look at the real history of the people in Britain.<br />Dr. Green has done a great service to the working people in showing how they acted with great consideration for each other, in dignity despite difficult circumstances, in the provision of health services for themselves and their families.<br />It is because of this book that Labour politicians should be ashamed rather than proud of the creation of the National Health Service in Britain.on of health services for themselves and their families.<br />It is because of this book that Labour politicians should be ashamed rather than proud of the creation of the National Health Service in Britain.	2002-02-27
US	49834367	R6T9H0JOXNLDO	0836224116	116560864	The Joy of Stress	Books	5	1	1	N	Y	*****  What a Useful Book. How abiout an Update?  *****	I came across this book accidentally but afetr reading about twenty pages, I ordered my own from Amazon.<br />All you ever wanted to know about stress and more besides.<br />Dr. Hanson goes into the story of stress and it's effects in a very thorough way. The book is written in plain English so that the general reader is left with a good comprehensive understanding of the topic without feeling overwhelmed with medical jargon and complex terminology.<br />This is a very human book in the sense that the author puts the reader right at the heart of his case. he relates decsions which can affect our stress levels to us.He writes in a factual way without appearing judgemental or condescending. In my view this is one of the great strengths of the volume. Dr. Hanson does not adopt a health fascist tone like so many do or sound self-righteous.<br />The clarity of the discourse is another clear advantage to this text. With a lively and positive style it sets out very clearly what can be done to combat stress. Despite being published in 1986 the message it brings is still vital but topical. Perhaps it could be updated for the new century but until then I highly recommend this book as a handbook to use to make all of our lives better	2002-02-26
US	49834367	R5G7G9X1G7CK6	0006375863	732323367	Thinking the Unthinkable: Think-tanks and the Economic Counter-revolution, 1931-83	Books	5	6	13	N	N	The long road back to reality and opportunity.	This magisterial tome captures much of the flavour of the fight back from the collectivist vision of the control of the commanding heights of the economy to the more market orientated societies that we have today. The story begins with Friedrich Hayek, the main protaganist of John Maynard Keynes who's ideas were hijacked in the name of social justice continues through the advice of Hayek to Anthony Fisher to make the intellectual case among intellectuals through the founding of the Institute of Economic Affairs to the end of the first Thatcher Government in 1983.<br />More than this it is the story of a classical liberal revival mainly through the tenacity and dedication of a team of two who were once described as the last remaining free marketeers in England - Ralph Harris and Arthur Seldon.<br />It is the story of the importance of ideas and their acceptance and implementation. It is the story about a group of people around the world struggled against the tide to show how their philosophical beliefs had relevance to men and women across the world. It is the story of visionaries, of those who think outside of the box, who turn their dreams into reality. The people who believe in human nature and the ability of people to want to be free, who want to express their individuality, their initiative, their enterprise and who cannot be forever suppressed and oppressed.<br />It is a story of faith and hope. A journal of change in society against all the reactionary forces raging against it. It is a testament to the power of ideas and to the fact that one or two people can affect change throughout the world.<br />I highly recommend this book to any serious student of politics and change in contemporary Britain.	2002-02-26
US	49834367	R1VXALVIRH8VB2	0312241348	333995348	Your Own Two Feet (And How to Stand on Them): Surviving and Thriving After Graduation	Books	1	0	4	N	N	Someone else's shoulders and how to sit on them	I picked up this book as a graduation gift for a friend's son. The title  seemed cute and appropriate and skimming through it in the bookshop, it did  seem to cover a lot of the things a grad would find useful. My friend's son  thought differently. He thought that it was a joke, and particularly useful  for those people who do not need to worry about where their next meal or  rent is going to come from. After reading it thoroughly myself I find  myself in total agreement. It is educational to see how the well heeled  view the world but I am afraid that for the most part most of us have a  somewhat different view. And I thought that education was intended to  broaden the mind.	2000-07-07
