US	49862694	R36K6M1M7A60BI	0312341156	246588173	Where the Right Went Wrong: How Neoconservatives Subverted the Reagan Revolution and Hijacked the Bush Presidency	Books	4	30	37	N	N	Battle for the Heart of the Republican Party has Begun	In his latest work Pat Buchanan has sounded the trumpet in the civil war that will errupt upon the end of the Bush era (whether that era ends this year or in 4 years).  The war will be the traditional conservatives, of whom Mr. Buchanan is the loudest advocate, and the neo-conservatives, those who currently run the party and most of the conservative media (The Weekly Standard, National Review, etc...).   <br /> <br />This scathing attack of everything the neo-conservatives stand for (i.e. democratic imperialism, perpetual war for perpetual peace, free trade agreements that are anything but free, the imperial presidency, etc..) is just what the American people need to hear.  With a new free trade agreement on the horizon (called the Free Trade Area of the Americas, or FTAA for short) the people need to hear not only how we are being led down the road to ruin based on the foreign policy of not just this Republican President but also by the former Democrat as well, they need to know how we are being ruined economically.   <br /> <br />It is wonderful to finally hear someone come up with an arugment against the war that isn't based on emotions (\\"BUSH LED US TO WAR SO HE CAN MAKE MONEY FROM THE OIL OF IRAQ\\") but is based on logic, the constitution (Congress gave the President a blank check rather than declaring war on Al-Queda), and our traditions.  Buchanan calls for a return to the Washington ideal of non-intervention and a removal of the U.S. from permanent foreign alliances designed to draw us into every major conflict in the world. <br /> <br />The only negative aspect of the book I found was his ambivalence toward the Israeli cause.  I belive that we should not involve ourselves in that mess as Mr. Buchanan does, but at one point I was unsure if he was unsure if he was asserting that Arafat is someone with whom the Israeli's should negotiate.  It is obvious that there can never be any peace between Israel and the Arabs who refer to themselves as Palestinians by listening and reading the rhetoric they issue on a daily basis (if you've never been exposed to the anti-jewish rhetoric of the Nazi's then read some of the anti-jewish rhetoric of the \\"Palestinians\\" and you'll see what I mean).   <br /> <br />All in all this book is the usual well written and insightful book I've come to expect from Mr. Buchanan.  If you are interested in finding out what true conservatives believe, if you are interested in taking back the Republic before it is destroyed, this book is for you.	2004-08-29
US	49862694	R1ADC3IUL1KCCL	1579549276	751729331	My Prison Without Bars	Books	5	1	5	N	N	Hit King Hits Home Run!!!	Pete Rose's new book, My Prison Without Bars is excellent by any standard, and a must read for fans of Pete as well as Baseball in general.  <br />Yes, Rose finally admits he bet on baseball.  He goes into detail about the reasons behind his love of gambling and why he was unlike any player of his generation (or since then).  But this isn't why I enjoyed the book.  I enjoyed it because it is well written in a very engageable style.  Pete has an edgy sense of humor which comes through in the book.  <br />I would recommend you ignore the hype by all the media (whether it's from ESPN, Jim Rome, Bob Costas or anyone else) and read the book.  By the end of it you too will agree that it is time to lift the ban and allow one of the greatest players to every play the game back into the game and elected to the hall of fame.	2004-02-19
US	49862694	R2911SK5OOUI1C	0345347617	324644242	The Bishop's Heir (Histories of King Kelson, Vol 1)	Books	5	21	21	N	N	Tolkiens Heir?	I can easily describe Katherine Kurtz The Bishop's Heir in one sentence: Brilliant.  This novel, which is book one of the three part Chronicles of King Kelson, is absolutely brilliant.  Kurtz weaves a rich tapestry of intrigue and war all set in an alternate reality.<br />The plot of the story is strong, which is typical of a Kurtz novel.  She obviously is well read on medieval History (M.A. in Medieval English History) and religion, which adds a depth to this novel that most fantasy authors could only dream of achieving.  Rather than take the worn out theme perfected by Tolkien (and then worn out by subsequent copy cats) she devises a plot based around the desire for power and combines it with racism and genocidal desires (themes from our own time).<br />No review of this novel would be complete without a discussion of Ms. Kurtz's use of religion to drive the plot.  Something most fantasy novels simply brush over is the religion of the characters involved.  If, and that's a big if, religion is mentioned, it's usually some bland form of paganism similar to just about every other fantasy novel out there.  Not this one.  The use of the Catholic Church, along with it's heirarchy of nuns and priests, bishops and monks, gives these books a depth I've not seen in a fantasy novel since, perhaps, the master himself.  Like the Lord of the Rings, The Bishop's Heir reads like a great historical novel, rather than a half baked fantasy.  <br />If you are yearning for a good fantasy with some magic, lot's of plot, and well written characters, you've come to the right place.	2002-08-19
US	49862694	R3586X5A0VECH5	0312978367	931904718	The Prometheus Deception	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Deception Galore	Robert Ludlum is, without a doubt, the master of the modern spy-action adventure.  In this novel the reader finds Ludlum in standard form, but not necessarily at his best.  <br />The novel is populated with the standard characters one finds in this sort of novel.  The exotic foreign beauty, the mysterious spy master, etc...  This isn't bad, just not exactly new territory.  Having said that, I don't want to lead you to believe this is necessarily a bad thing.  If it's not broken then don't fix it, right?  <br />I do have a problem with Nick Bryson, the main character.  As one reviewer noted, his physical and mental prowess is such that you know he's never in any danger.  This takes away the sense of danger from the story. <br />The plot contains the usual twists and turns, deceptions and reversals.  I admit that, although Ludlum telegraphs each and every move, I was still turning the pages to find out what happened next.  No, there are no surprises here, but the novel is still good fun.<br />On the good side, the story is action packed and moves along like a rocket.  Once Ludlum gets going, and it doesn't take long, he doesn't quite let up.  <br />If you are looking for an exciting novel, then this is a good choice.  Just don't expect it to be a ground breaking, earth shattering affair.	2002-07-11
US	49862694	R1WMAZJXN3YFMH	0812551397	474238874	The Singing Sword (The Camulod Chronicles, Book 2)	Books	4	11	13	N	N	This Series Sings	Jack Whyte continues his tale of Publius Varrus and Caius Brittanicus and their formation of the \\"colony\\" of Camaloud.  In this, the second novel in the series, the Legions have departed and Arthur's Great Grandparents are struggling for their survival.  <br />Whyte's strong suit is his faithfulness to historical detail.  From the departure of the Legions to the Pelagian Heresy, from life in a divided and crumbling Empire to the invasion of post Roman Britain by the Saxons and other \\"barbarians.\\"  <br />Once again, as in the first installment, Whyte's description and detail of adult sexual situations makes it a novel not for the young or those who easily blush. However, this isn't a condemnation of Whyte or his novel.  It is simply more \\"adult\\" oriented than the average fantasy novel.<br />Another strong suite for Whyte is his character development.  Each character grows and expands as the story evolves.  Furthermore, Whyte doesn't make his characters caricatures so common to most fantasy novels.  For example, Publius is certainly a flawed hero and we are shown his more \\"human\\" side.  <br />You like Action?  There is plenty of action moving the story along.  Before you know it, the novel is done and you are dying to read the next installment.  <br />This series does an amazing job bringing the world King Arthur would be born into to life.  It may not be what really happened, but it is certainly possible.  Just be warned, this novel will leave you hungry for the next intallment.	2002-04-24
US	49862694	R1KBP97UW35RO9	0141001828	624836488	In the Heart of the Sea: The Tragedy of the Whaleship Essex	Books	5	12	14	N	Y	A CLASSIC!!!	Nat Philbirck's In The Heart Of The Sea is an amazing story of courage and survival at sea.  Having read numerous survival stories, as well as Melville's classic Moby Dick (which was partly based on the Essex tragedy) I can say this tale is unmatched by any other.  <br />Philbrick's easy style and immense knowledge of the Nantucket Whaling Industy make this one of the easiest and most enjoyable books I've ever come across.  After reading this the reader will probably know more about Sperm Whales then he/she ever wanted to know.  This isn't a bad thing.  <br />The tale takes place in 1819-20, during which the Essex sailed from Nantucket to the Pacific in search of whales.  The best part, of course, is the tale of what happens after the ship is sunk and the survivors, hundreds of miles away from any land, embark on a 93 day journey which will lead through storms, delerium, and finally, canibalism.  The decisions and actions they are forced to take are so horrible no man should ever have to go through this ordeal. The author even details what it is like not only to slowly die of starvation, but of dehydration and exposure to the elements.  <br />If you enjoyed The Perfect Storm, you will certainly enjoy this book.  It's a Classic!	2002-03-27
US	49862694	R2SCRQ2FM4Q2J5	0141001828	624836488	In the Heart of the Sea: The Tragedy of the Whaleship Essex	Books	5	0	0	N	Y	A CLASSIC!!!	Nat Philbirck's In The Heart Of The Sea is an amazing story of courage and survival at sea.  Having read numerous survival stories, as well as Melville's classic Moby Dick (which was partly based on the Essex tragedy) I can say this tale is unmatched by any other.  <br />Philbrick's easy style and immense knowledge of the Nantucket Whaling Industy make this one of the easiest and most enjoyable books I've ever come across.  After reading this the reader will probably know more about Sperm Whales then he/she ever wanted to know.  This isn't a bad thing.  <br />The tale takes place in 1819-20, during which the Essex sailed from Nantucket to the Pacific in search of whales.  The best part, of course, is the tale of what happens after the ship is sunk and the survivors, hundreds of miles away from any land, embark on a 93 day journey which will lead through storms, delerium, and finally, canibalism.  The decisions and actions they are forced to take are so horrible no man should ever have to go through this ordeal. The author even details what it is like not only to slowly die of starvation, but of dehydration and exposure to the elements.  <br />If you enjoyed The Perfect Storm, you will certainly enjoy this book.  It's a Classic!	2002-03-27
US	49862694	RRWDJ0V1HJG84	0060974907	942381528	Trashing the Planet: How Science Can Help Us Deal With Acid Rain, Depletion of the Ozone, and Nuclear Waste (Among Other Things)	Books	4	38	53	N	N	Trashing the Enviornmental Zealots	I first came across this book in 1994 when I was a liberal leaning college student concerned with the environment.  I am now a conservative college graduate concerned with the environment, and this book had much to do with my transformation.  Dixy Lee Ray is a breath of fresh air speaking on a subject many of us are ill-informed on.  <br />If you are concerned with the environment, you will find much in this book that interests you (as long as you can handle truth).  Miss Ray debunks much of the dogma the enviro-nazis shove down the publics throat.  She takes on the issues of global warming, ozone depletion, nuclear medicine, acid rain and others.  Using scientific methods (something the leftist leaning environmental zealots ignore because they fear the outcome of true scientific discovery) she intelligently and unemotionally discusses how water is naturally acidic; the benefits of x-rays and other advances in radiation therapy; the benefits of pesticides in our ability to grow more food using less labor and land.  <br />Throughout her book Ray uses the statistics and predictions of the environmental movement's leaders against them to show how out of touch with reality and normal society they are.  A Stanford University Biologist, Paul Ehrlich is quoted as predicting global famine in 1985 and a shrinking of the US population from 250 million to 22.5 million by 1999. Here is another quote, \\"Paul Watson, founder of Greenpeace: 'I got the impression that instead of going out to shoot birds, I should go out and shoot the kids who shoot birds.'\\"  <br />The list goes on and on.  The best part of the book is the final chapter, in which Ray presents a sound and logical formula for having both a clean environment and a technologically advanced society.  This book should be read by all high school seniors so they can understand the truth about the environment rather than the dogma they are spoon feed in public schools and the liberal media.	2002-02-12
US	49862694	RCV9INET6LVKG	0451191153	594264062	The Fountainhead	Books	4	2	5	N	N	Absolutely Amazing!!!	The Fountainhead is an astonishing work of major philosophical importance as Ayn Rand presents Objectivism to the world.  In my opinion it isn't as good as Atlas Shrugged, but that's not to say this book is bad.  On the contrary, it is quite good and many authors would be lucky to do as well as Rand did with this one.<br />The novel is about, as Rand later stated, \\"individualism and collectivism in man's soul.\\"  Roark represents Rand's heroic man (the ideal we should all strive for).  He is the ultimate creator.  In his profession, architecture, he is second to none.  The antagonists are many, but the main villian in the novel is represtented by Toohey, the penultimate second-hander.  <br />Throughout the novel these two characters are competing against one another, although sometimes Roark isn't aware of the fact that Toohey is the cause of most of his problems.  As a matter of fact, Roark doesn't care.  He continues to stick to his principles and struggles on.  <br />The interesting thing is that Roark is the mover, Toohey the destroyer and Keating (a fellow architect if you want to see him as that) is the ultimate leech.  Keating depends on Roark to get him through college, through his early days at the firm, through almost everything and yet hates him for it.  Toohey is the master manipulator of public opinion (I often think of people like Bill Clinton when I think of Toohey) while Keating reminds me of the environmental-Nazi's and their total dependence upon (and hatred of) technology. <br />The only problem I had with the book was the language.  Oftentimes the characters speak in a stilted, wooden way.  I'm not sure if this was done on purpose or due to the fact that Ms. Rand's first language was Russian.  I must say that it wasn't really a distraction and almost not worth mentioning.  <br />Finally, as with Atlas Shrugged, is that you can take the themes and characters and see them in our modern everyday life.  There are plenty of people like Keating, Tooheyand even Roark.  This is a timeless novel and certainly one of my favorites.  If you've never read any of Ms. Rand's works this is a good place to start.  Just remeber the character's aren't meant to be believable and real, but arch-types of various themes/ideas.	2002-02-03
US	49862694	R2ZZQ800OFTCFR	0765303728	705935030	The Skystone (The Camulod Chronicles, Book 1)	Books	4	50	53	N	N	Excellent!!	When I first saw this book my initial reaction was &quot;Not another take on the King Arthur myth!&quot;  Now that I've read it, I must say, this isn't just another take on the myth.  This is the Arthur Myth in a whole new light.  <br />Jack Whyte presents Caius Brittanicus and Publius Varrus, the Roman forbearers of King Arthur and founders of Camulod.  the novel starts off with the penetration of Hadrians wall by the Barbarian Hordes and takes us up to the end of the 4th Century.  In it you will meet Picus Brittanicus, father of Merlin, and learn how Excalibur came to be. The characters are totally believeable and real.  Each one has his/her faults as well as his/her strong points.  <br />What I loved about this book is the fact that Whyte took his time and painstakingly recreated the Roman World.  His description of the battles, the Roman Army, Roman life...  It was all fantastic.  This is more of a historical fiction than a fantasy novel, so if you are looking for wizards and warlocks, you will be disappointed.<br />I must say that some parts of this novel, and certainly in the ones that follow, contain &quot;adult&quot; themes.  You might want to consider this before allowing young adults to read it.  <br />Finally, the true measure of the first novel in a series is it's ability to get you excited about the next installment.  As soon as I finished book one I immediately picked up book2, so it's a hit!	2002-01-05
US	49862694	R2I620FRPL78KR	0345422473	947191478	Gods and Generals: A Novel of the Civil War (Civil War Trilogy)	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Well Done	Gods and Generals, Jeff Shaara's prequel to Killer Angels, is a well written novel detailing the years prior to the outbreak of the civil war and ending just before Killer Angels begins.  In it Mr. Shaara explores the motivations of such great leaders as General Robert Lee and and Joshua Chamberlain, attempting to help us understand how this terrible conflict came about.  <br />While I enjoyed this novel just as much as the other two in the series, I did feel it should have been longer.  I would have liked more detailed descriptions of some of the battles, including Antietam and First Manassas.  While I can understand why the author choose to only give short descriptions of most of the engagements, I feel he could have made them longer.  <br />In the end, this novel is a great piece of historical fiction, something which should please any civil war buff.  The most poignant part of the novel is a description of General Jackson's relationship with a 4 year old child during the winter of '62/'63.  The humanity of the man is captured by Shaara in such a way that I was left in tears.  When you read the novel you will see what I mean.	2002-01-01
US	49862694	RFNECGEKLR7I0	0441104029	357442714	Children of Dune (Dune Chronicles, Book Three)	Books	3	6	8	N	N	Disappointed	Having been a fan of Herbert for years, I have to say this is one of the most disappointing books I've read.  Part of this is due to the fact that Herbert has set the standard quite high.  When you compare this book to Dune, it just doesn't hold up.<br />I find this book is quite wordy and the story seems jumbled together.  Sure there is a central story taking place, but much of what is going on seems to be unnecessary drivel.  At times I found myself wondering \\"What does this have to do with anything?\\"  Maybe Herbert is just that much more intelligent than I am.  Actually I know he is.  However, that doesn't excuse him for writing such a... mess.  One example is the preacher's speeches.  He seems to be saying absolutely nothing but apparently he is saying something, cause a lot of characters are moved by what he says.  After reading the book twice I still can't figure out what is the big deal with the Preacher (besides his true identity).<br />Having said that I want to give out praise where it is deserved.  I found the part of the story dealing with Leto II and the \\"golden path\\" compelling.  His sacrifice to save humanity and Dune is exactly what being a messiah is all about.  First time readers will be interested to see how this character changes in the next book.  Afterall, he is going to live for thousands of years and become something which is certainly not human.  <br />While not a bad book, and a requirement if you plan on reading the entire series, this book is not quite up to the standard set by the original.  It doesn't have that epic feel to it like Dune had.  However, when you compare it to some of the other [stuff] out there in the Sci-Fi/Fantasy genre, it's a cut above the rest in originality and composition.	2001-09-19
US	49862694	R3GYA08C7V0GHX	0525934189	604964480	Atlas Shrugged: 35th Anniversary Edition	Books	5	6	11	N	Y	&quot;Ladies and Gentlemen...  This is John Gault Speaking.&quot;	Atlas Shrugged, Ayn Rand's classic novel of the rebirth of man's spirit, represents the pinnacle of her philosophical vision.   Set in the modern world, but not dated, the novel deals with what happens when the &quot;prime movers&quot; go on strike.  The prime movers are tired of being blamed for everything bad in society and given no credit for the good. They are also tired of being enslaved by the second-handers, so the prime movers give these people what they want:  a world without the things, values and people the leeches detest.  However, by doing so, they have led to the destruction of society as we know it.  <br />The great thing about this novel is the fact that it predicts many of todays problems.  You can simply look at the California Power crisis and see many of the characters in the novel are with us today:  people like Governor Gray Davis remind me of James Taggert.  The environmentalists and their pseudo-intellectual ideals remind me of people like Chic Morrisson and his ilk.  These people, just as the people in the novel, do not realize that many of the things they advocate are in complete opposition to logic and reason as well as the laws of economics.  However, that matters not.  They &quot;want&quot; things done their way and will achieve their goals at all costs.  They substitute true intellectual discourse with child-like name calling and tantrum throwing until they achieve what they want, and when they do so, they demand the very people they persecuted come to their rescue. <br />Another point of the novel which I truly enjoyed was the fact Rand took her time to fully explore the motivations of the characters and fully develop the plot.  She isn't in any hurry to get to the end, and although I certainly was, I found the trip an enjoyable one.  I must say at this point many of the characters are meant to be caricatures of various ideas running through the American Culture and political discourse of the times.  The best example of this is Gault himself, who is the ultimate caricature and represents something different to each character in the plot.  <br />This novel is certainly one of the greatest novels of the 20th century.  A complete philosophy on life is presented between its covers.  Whether or not you are an Objectivist, you will find Atlas Shrugged to be a compelling and timely novel, even 40 years after it was first published.	2001-07-06
US	49862694	R2JHL2FGRQQSF4	0395193958	669379389	The Lord of the Rings	Books	5	5	8	N	Y	One edition which rules them all....	This red leather bound edition is a must have for any Tolkien Fan.  This was given to me as a gift for Christmas back in 1988 and I have cherished it ever since.  The leather is of high quality as is the paper upon which the novel is printed.<br />The best thing about this edition is the fact it contains all three parts of the novel in ONE volume, the way it was intended to be.  If you are a fan of the novel, then this is a must have for your collection.	2001-06-11
US	49862694	R24IPOGD22EXO	0345339738	669379389	The Return of the King (The Lord of the Rings, Part 3)	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Return to the adventure	The final part in the three part Lord of the Rings, the Return of the King finds our heroes in a tight fix.  The forces of Darkness are on the march:  Frodo is captive in Mordor, Gondor is under siege, and the remainder of the fellowship, lead by Aragorn, is missing.  In other words, things aren't looking good.<br /><br />The plot, once again, is masterful.  You can't get any better than a story conceived by a professor of English Literature at Oxford.  Tolkien is a wordsmith equal to the best of them.  However, he doesn't take three pages to say something which can be said in a paragraph.  There's something to be said for brevity.<br /><br />The characters have been maturing throughout the novel, and the third part is no different.  Frodo is coming into his own, as are the remaining Hobbits.  The question is, will they be able to step forward and do something epic in nature???<br /><br />I loved the way Tolkien wrapped it all up, and the appendicies are a treasure trove of information on what happens afterwards, what happened before, etc...  Honestly, when I finished this book way back in high school I had a tear in my eyes.  Very good stuff.  This type of novel comes along once in a lifetime, if that often.	2001-06-11
US	49862694	R213BFG8M4VYRB	0441172717	88529599	Dune	Books	5	1	1	N	Y	Stunning Literary Achievement!!!	Dune, Frank Herbert's Masterpiece, is a Literary Achievment, and, in my opinion, the greatest Science Fiction Novel of all time.  Set in the future, this novel covers themes ranging from politics to economics, religion and philosphy to environmentalism.  In other words, Herbert is a genius and you will be able to tell this within the first few pages.  <br />The central theme is that of messianic religions, and the effects of such.  Because of the fact that Paul Attredies (the main character) is a messiah, we get to see his point of view on being one.  Herbert deals extensively with the feelings such a person might feel about having a fate which is unaviodable.  <br />The characters Herbert created are outstanding.  You'll hate the Baron Vladimir Harkonnen and love Paul.  You'll be intrigued by the guildsmen and in awe of the Bene Geseritt.  <br />If you like dense plots, this is the book for you.  There are more layers to this novel than you can count on both hands.  I should warn you that you will miss many many things after the first reading.  I recently finished reading it for the third time and I was still discovering new themes,new ideas. IF you have not yet read it, Dune is a Masterpiece and should be a part of your collection.	2001-05-31
US	49862694	R6KWC5KE5NPOO	031226660X	19959884	The Ten Things You Can't Say in America	Books	5	45	48	N	N	Well Written...  Every American should read this book!!!	Larry Elder's Ten Things You Can't Say in America is probably the best book I've read in years.  From the Opening Chapter on Blacks and Racism to the final discussion of the fallacy of Gun Control, Mr. Elder is on the offensive against every special interest from the Liberal Media to Femenists.  His book is witty and insightful and Long Overdue.<br />Having said this I feel the reader must be made aware of the fact that the Sage from South Central backs his views up with facts.  He uses quotes by people like Spike Lee (amongst others) to back up his argument that blacks are more racist than whites.  He uses statistical figures to prove Gun Control does not work and will not solve the problem of violence in American Society.  He uses independant figures to prove the media is not only biased but that this bias is destructive.<br />I have to say that by the end of this book I was certainly onboard with Mr. Elder and his ideas (i already agreed with most of them but not all).  The best thing about Larry Elder is the fact that he not only points out a problem, but provides us with a soloution.  If you read no other social commentary this year, read this one.	2001-05-16
US	49862694	R1TNWAMRZJZTC8	0316289329	236338073	Hornblower: Beat to Quarters (Hornblower Saga)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Exciting Adventure on the High Seas	Beat to Quarters is the sixth book in the eleven book series covering the exploits of Horatio Hornblower.  It is also, in my opinion, the best one out of the ones I have read.  It's story flows from one point to the next and there is plenty of action in this installment.<br />The first thing I should mention is that Mr. Forrester's description of life onboard a War Ship is quite accurate.  Being a member of today's Navy, it's amazing to see just how little has changed in 200 years.  Sure, the ships are made of steel, we have satellite communications, etc...  However, much has remained the same.  We still spend hour after hour cleaning the ship, drilling for action, etc... and Mr. Forrester does a wonderful job capturing this.  <br />The second thing about this novel I enjoyed was the description of the battle between the Spanish Warship and Hornblower's Frigate.  I was on the edge of my seat wondering how Captain Hornblower would be able to win a battle against the much more powerful Spanish ship.  I'm sure you will enjoy this book for these reasons and many others.  IF you like good historial Drama then I would HIGHLY recommend this one!	2001-04-28
US	49862694	R2D4CY94URGAFX	0965694879	538449378	Acts of God (Book Three of The Christ Clone Trilogy)	Books	4	52	56	N	Y	Great Conclusion to a Great Trilogy	Before I started book three of the series, I was worried.  Could Mr. BeauSeigneur keep it up?  Book two was fantastic, so I was worried this one would be a letdown. Rest assured, this isn't the case.  Book Three was a great conclusion to the story.<br />The Anti-Christ finally makes his appearance(of course, he's been there all along, but you'll see what I mean when you read the book) and, undoubtably, his true plan is finally revealed.  For those of you who were wondering just where the author was going with all the new age stuff, be faithful.  It will all make sense in the end.<br />I particularly liked the theme of redemtion in this novel.  I don't want to give too much away, so I will not say more, but I think you will be as pleased as I was.  <br />Finally, I enjoyed the way BeauSigneur handled Armaggedon and the appearance of Jesus.  To be honest, this is a point at which the author could have overdone it, but, as always, he hit the nail on the head.  If you enjoyed the previous two books in the series, you will enjoy this one as well.  Rating:4.5 Stars	2001-04-07
US	49862694	R1TUIDG56BMP9C	0553106635	549456361	A Storm of Swords (A Song of Ice and Fire, Book 3)	Books	5	3	4	N	Y	Martin Does it Again!!	The third book in the series, A Storm Of Swords was/is my favorite one so far.  This series gets better and better as time goes on.  The great thing is Martin's ability to continually surprise you by doing the things you thought he wouldn't dare to do.<br />Once again, the characters are fantastic!  I've never seen anyone who can create such a plethora of characters with the exception of Charles Dickens.  Like I siad in my review of Book 1, each character is a shade of grey rather than black and white.  Actually, each one is a rainbow of emotions and motivations.  Whether it's Tyrion Lannister (my favorite) or Robb Stark, each character will surprise you at one point or another.  <br />In this, the third novel of the series, Martin thickens the plot and seems to tie off some loose ends.  However, be warned, Martin had the ability to make your head spin and just when you thought he was ending something, he might surprise you.<br />I am sure the rest of this series will live up to the three books out there so far.  If for some reason you haven't begun this series, then I recommend buying all three books and getting started.  It's a decision you will not regret.	2001-04-04
US	49862694	R15ZAZS22AB56	0786915749	486220975	Dragons of Autumn Twilight (Dragonlance Chronicles, Volume I)	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Classic Fantasy	I first picked up this series about 15 years ago, and I have to say, time hasn't diminished it's appeal.  If you are a fan of Fantasy you HAVE to read this series.<br />The plot of the novel may not be the most ingenious, but it is one which hooks the reader right from the start.  The &quot;hero's are barely introduced before the action begins.  Trust me, this isn't a book in which the plot takes hundreds upon hundreds of pages to get moving.  I particularly liked the fact side plot of the Gods returning to Krynn combined with the return of the Dragons. <br />The characters are quite well developed and intriguing.  Whether it's the cursed Wizard Raistlin or the heroic Knight Sturm Brightblade, each character will grow on the reader by the end of the novel.  Personally I loved Sturm, but each and every character is perfect.  I also liked the humour added by Tasselhoff and the Dwarf, Flint.  Finally, each character has a dark side to him/her which I found refreshing.  Even though they are the heroes, they are quite reluctant.<br />I am sure you will enjoy this book enough to continue on with the series.  Rating: 5 Stars only cause I couldn't give it more.	2001-04-03
US	49862694	R3IAR7LTT34470	0553573403	268067011	A Game of Thrones (A Song of Ice and Fire, Book 1)	Books	5	3	4	N	Y	A Triumph of Epic Proportions!	Just when I thought there were no more great Epic Fantasy's out there, I came across George R. R. Martin's wonderful novel.  This has to be the best series I've come across since the original DragonLance Saga.<br />Martin's strength is his ability to develop a wide range of characters.  Unlike the characters of most fantasy novels, the inhabitants of Martin's world are varied and numerous.  There is the incestuous and powerful Lannisters, the Noble and Courageous Starks, the rebellious Greyjoys, and the exiled Targaryans (just to name a few).  However, just when you think you have someone figured out, you find out something new about that character, some twist to his or her personality which shows just how ingenious Martin is.  In this, the first novel of the series, he establishes a precedent of killing off characters YOU thought would make it to the end, which adds a bit of danger to this series (something not found in most novels).<br />The plot itself is an intricate one, and I will not give it away.  Suffice it to say that civil war is looming and the only question is when will it happen, not if.  Just as in his talent for creating 3-dimensional intricate characters, Martin is a master at weaving a plot of such depth and intricacy that the reader is left breathless.<br />If you like epic fantasy and GREAT writing, along with numerous twists and turns in the plot, then this is the series for you!	2001-03-14
US	49862694	R30R8CKOC3XYQY	0812548051	361278280	Wizard's First Rule (Sword of Truth, Book 1)	Books	2	16	26	N	Y	Major Disappointment	As a fan of Multi Volume Fantasy Literature, I find it almost impossible to pass up a series which looks as promising as this one looked.  The Sword of Truth series is now up to book 6, so I decided to get the first 5 books and try to catch up while I await the next installment of the Martin Fire and Ice series.  <br />The Sword of Truth is a weak series when compared to books like the Martin Series, Tolkien, The Dragonlance Saga, and others.  The worst thing about this is the fact that much of the ideas are simply re-hashed.  The sword sounds much like the Sword of Shanarra and the relationship between Richard Cypher and his grandfather reminds me very much of the David Eddings Belgariad Series.  <br />Don't get me wrong, Goodkind has some good ideas.  I love the Confessors and the idea behind them.  I also like some of the little details like the magic Sand and the Mord-Sith.  I should warn you the Mord Sith are a grotesquely erotic bunch of Dominatrix's unique in fantasy literature (at least in all the novels I've read).  However, these little gems are few and far between.  To make things worse, Goodkind will exploit the drama of Richard's relationship to the Mother Confessor until you want to choke the author, the characters or both!  <br />If you are looking for a good series, I would recommend the Dragonlance Sage, Tolkien, George R.R. Martin, Robert Jordan, Raymond Feist, David Eddings or even Terry Brooks' Original Sword of Shanarra series.  Save your money and skip this one.	2001-02-17
US	49862694	RCX07EEJWMSMI	0345339711	669379389	The Two Towers (The Lord of the Rings, Part 2)	Books	4	2	4	N	N	The Epic Continues	In this, the second book of his extraordinary series, J.R.R. Tolkien continues where the Fellowship of the Ring left off.  The Fellowship has been sundered by the events which took place at the Falls of Rauros.  Frodo and Sam are off towards Mordor and a date with destiny guided by the deceitful Gollum while Aragorn, Legolas and Gimli are on a quest to save Merry and Pippin.<br />The plot of this second novel is good, although, as it is the middle act of a three act story, it is some what slow.  Tolkien is setting up the final part throughout most of the novel, so the reader should not take this as a criticism.  We get a glimpse of what the war against Sauron will be like when the forces of Rohan meet those of Sauruman.  Tolkien is a master story teller, one who moves his characters around as a grand master moves pieces on a chess board.<br />The characters in this novel are well developed and continue to grow.  In particular, we see the Hobbits grow out of their child-like innocence because of the weight they carry and the events they are witness to.  Frodo in particular will not come out unscathed, if he is able to survive his jouney into the darkness of Mordor.<br />If you enjoyed the first book in the series you will enjoy this one as well.  You will also be eargerly awaiting the conclusion.  4.5 Stars	2001-02-03
US	49862694	R38N9KD91IVV5V	0345339703	669379389	The Fellowship of the Ring (The Lord of the Rings, Part 1)	Books	5	8	10	N	N	The One To Rule the Others	The Fellowship of the Ring is the first part of a novel which some have called the Greatest Novel of the 20th Century.  Personally I have never liked such titles, but I will say this is an amazing work.  J.R.R. Tolkien's imagination is matched only by that of Frank Herbert, in my humble opinion.<br />The novel starts off innocently enough with the departure of Bilbo Baggins, the hobbit who was the hero in The Hobbit.  Soon, however, we learn that one of the items his nephew Frodo inherited is not as it seems.  It's belongs to Sauron, the Dark Lord who, for ages, as tormented Middle Earth.  Thus begins a journey of epic proportions.<br />Tolkien developed full-fledged languages for the various races which inhabit Middle-Earth, inlcuding the Elves, Dwarves and others.  He also developed a history for all the peoples which gives the story added depth, a depth unparalleled in fantasy novels which attempt to recreate the magic of this work.  Authors such as Robert Jordan would do well to re-read this novel and learn the fact that sometimes brevity is best.  Tolkien has the ability to give the reader enough information to make the story interesting while not loading him/her down with useless details.<br />The reader will, by the end of the novel feel as if he/she has read a history of a world gone by, a place which truly exists.  You will find yourself wanting to visit the Shire, to walk down the old road to Rivendell and visit the elves who dwell there.  From the fields of Hollin to the darkness of Moria and the evil power dwelling in Barad-Dur, this novel is excellent.  If you read only one novel this year, read The Lord Of The Rings.	2001-01-27
US	49862694	R33MXPNDZTAPG4	0965694860	391817798	Birth of an Age (Book Two of The Christ Clone Trilogy)	Books	4	50	54	N	Y	The Series Continues	The Birth of An Age, book two in the Christ Clone Trilogy, actually improves upon the first one in the Series.  In this one we see the rise of the Anti-Christ as well as the fullfilment of more end time prophecies.  <br />I like the way the Author deals with the prophecies about the three asteriods which will rain death and destruction on the earth. He doesn't brush over their impacts on our planet, but uses scientific data to estimate how many people would die and just how much destruction would occur based on speed and mass of the object.  However, I should say that BeaquSeigneur doesn't let the story get bogged down by this; he gives just enough facts to make it interesting but doesn't drown you in minutiae.  <br />Finally, we see the reappearance of some characters we haven't seen much of lately.  I also found the authors ability to write believable characters to be undiminished.  Unlike some other novels about the End Times (whose names shall remain unspoken) these characters do not suddenly change.  When they do, they do it slowly over time, just as we all do.  The best thing is that, for the most part, none of the characters are written as Arch Types.  <br />As the Book comes to a close the reader will certainly find himself/herself desperately awaiting the arrival of book 3.  This is always a sign of a well written book.  Rating 4.5 Stars.	2001-01-27
US	49862694	R2VLSU4VMH12OQ	0553111337	243328997	Flags of Our Fathers	Books	5	7	7	N	N	POWERFUL!  SEMPER-FI!	Flags of Our Fathers is one of the most moving (if not the most moving) books I have ever read.  James Bradley, who started researching the story of his father's participation in the battle (his father was one of the six men in the famous photo of the flag rasing), ended up finding out more about it then he thought he would.  His research would lead him on a journey across the country and across the world to Iwo itself.  He would learn the meaning of honor, courage, and committment.  He would also understand why the US Marines are the best of the best.<br />Bradley frames the story nicely by starting off in the present; James and his family (including his mother) have travelled to Iwo Jima to place a plaque on Mount Suribachi.  From here he goes back in time, to an America which is no more.  An America where baseball is the national pasttime and NBC has two radio networks.  Where children respect and honor their parents.  It is a country which although not as rich as it is today, was rich in many other ways. <br />He describes the life the 6 boys led prior to their entry into the Corps.  Before long you feel as close to these 6 men as you would to your own brothers.  You come to love Ira Hayes, a Pima Indian for his stoic silence and strenght.  You believe, as the others did, in the leadership of Mike Strank, a &quot;marine's Marine.&quot;  Franklin Soulsey, a good natured boy from Kentucky who always has a smile on his face.   <br />The book really does an amazing job with the description of the battle for Iwo.  You are there along side the Marines as they fight for their lives against an enemy who is fighting to the death; You are alongside Bradley as he attempts to save as many lives as he possibly can in this &quot;hell on earth.&quot;  You will feel the fear as the unseen enemy drops Marine after Marine and the casualties mount.  You come to understand that, as Admiral Halsey said &quot;There are no great men.  Just great challenges which ordinary men, out of necessity, are forced by circumstances to meet.&quot;  <br />These most ordinary of American boys and their fellow Marines met that challenge.  They ALL are heroes.  None of the survivors ever truly felt like heroes.  They couldn't understand why people thought they were great for the simple act of raising a flag on a mountain on some far away island.  We all understand that it wasn't that event which made them great.  It was their participation in the great crusade that was World War Two.  This powerful novel should be read by everyone.	2001-01-27
US	49862694	R2KJANXCN2YCWH	0965694852	451794091	In His Image: Book One of The Christ Clone Trilogy	Books	4	30	33	N	Y	A Very Good Start	The first book of the trilogy starts off with two chapters detailing the project to prove/disprove the legitimacy fo the Shroud of Turin.  From there the novel gets into the fictitious part of the story, which is very very good.  <br />Now, every reviewer so far has compared this trilogy to the &quot;Left Behind&quot; series, and I vowed to not do the same.  However, I will say that the author is much better at creating characters who have some depth.  He is no Charles Dickens, but these are not as paper thin as the Rayford and Chloe Steele's in the Left Behind.  Furthermore, the first novel alone covers more than thirty years in which things are slowly changing, whereas in Left Behind events take place at the speed of light.<br />The plot is much more developed than I might have expected, as BeauSeigneur combines political, scientific and military themes in a well thought out tapestry.  He includes military conflict not only between Israel and her Arab neighbors, but between China, India and Pakistan.  When you combine this with the overall religious theme of the end-times, you can't miss.	2001-01-21
US	49862694	R3L71T8GGJ7TAA	0965603695	421593712	The Great Libertarian Offer	Books	5	8	9	N	Y	A Great Offer!	In this day and age of politicians who offer little and deliver even less, Harry Browne is what we need.  His book reads quite easily and is full of facts and figures which prove his arguments. <br />Mr. Browne starts off with an outline of what the Great Libertarian Offer is:  &quot;Would you give up your favorite federal programs if it meant you'd never have to pay income tax again?&quot; Browne then goes on to explain how this is entirely possible.  How, if we bring the size of government back to it's constitutionally mandated size, we can have extremely low taxes and we will be better off.<br />The first part of the book describes the Principles of Libertarianism and how government currently operates.  Mr. Browne does a great job of explaining, in layman's terms, just what the problem is and contrasting that with libertarian ideals.  The rest of the book, chapters 7-22 describe the Libertarian solution.  He discusses freedom from the income tax, freedom from war, and the Freedom to make your own choices.  <br />Finally, in the final chapter, Mr. Browne discusses whether or not this can be done and what must be done to achieve it.  As he says to sum up his beliefs (in his america) &quot;you'll be a free, responsible, self-governing individual.  No one will ask for your papers, no one will attach a number to you, no one will extort a share of your income.  You'll be free to pursue the life you've dreamed of.&quot; <br />This book is well written and well thought out.  I recommend it to anyone who truly loves liberty and wants to see America return to the free Republic it once was.	2001-01-20
