US	49866025	R15JBMMV11PCJF	0140296131	200647078	A Star Called Henry (The Last Roundup, Vol. 1)	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Visceral Irish History	The first salvo in Doyle's fictional chronicle of 20th century Irish history lands only slightly off the bullseye. <br />Consistently funny, unrelentingly grim, populated by sharp characters speaking pitch-perfect dialogue, A Star Called Henry begins with a bang. The first chapters, detailing the grinding poverty of the Dublin slums, are so arresting the tale that follows can't help but suffer somewhat in comparison.<br />Henry Smart's journey from homeless orphan to folk hero, from troublemaker to terrorist, and finally to an understanding of this journey, plays like myth and documentary intertwined. Though this combination is unusual and powerful, the book flags around the two-thirds mark as the violence becomes repetitive and the characters seem to recede into their more simplistic, folk-hero silhouettes. <br />But Doyle's narrative is purposeful, if perhaps overlong, and he eventually draws his story taut, as Henry's hard won understanding of exactly what he's been killing for brings the book to a wise and chilling conclusion.<br />A Star Called Henry takes some work, but in the end proves well worth the effort.	2003-10-26
US	49866025	RKS4MGKWBHMZE	037570387X	923633349	The Autograph Man	Books	2	15	19	N	N	Lager and Loathing	Zadie Smith is such a terrific writer that one isn't immediately aware of how dire her second novel quickly becomes. The sentences still glimmer, but slowy the wit begins to curdle, and eventually turning the pages becomes a struggle.<br />The opening is spectacular, a superlatively funny and sad miniature that taken as short story far outshines the long novel that follows -- exactly the sort of leap forward one might hope for from the author of White Teeth.<br />Unfortunately, then comes the rest of the book, focused on Alex-Li, a boy in the prologue, now an aimless young man. The novel seems to intend itself as a comedy of self-loathing: Alex and his friends are cinema-addled, emotionally stunted boy-men incapable of separating media fiction from reality, of connecting to flesh and blood women. While not particularly original, this is a vein that's been successfully mined for decades, and there's plenty of peculiar color in the worlds of autograph men and multicultural British Judaism.<br />The problem, finally, seems to be that the author identifies not with Alex, but with the put-upon (and predominantly off-stage) women in his life. So the tone is not one of self-loathing, but just, well, loathing. The hectoring feel of the narrative collapses our sympathy for Alex. He's presented as a big loser, no more no less. Eventually we cease to care about him, and all the jokes in the world can't help that.<br />By it's end, the novel disintegrates into pure, frantic farce -- a big disappointment from such a distinctive writer -- but it won't stop me from reading the next one.	2003-10-26
US	49866025	R1NLQPVXAERIM5	0142002623	689113993	The Company: A Novel of the CIA	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Anti-le Carre	Despite the hype, Robert Littel is not the American John le Carre. Indeed, This spook opus seems to self-consciously position him as the anti-le Carre, Littel's brave and virtuous heroes pretty much unbothered by any hint of psychological complexity. <br />But despite the bland protagonists, if you come to The Company expecting a solid page-turner, you won't go away disappointed. As history or literature The Company may fall short, but it's a terrific read, engaging and propulsive over virtually all its 900 page length.<br />The detailed and atmospheric Berlin opening perhaps promises more depth and texture than Littel plans to deliver -- initial lead Harvey Torriti is by far the most nuanced character in the book -- and by the time we learn the entire cold war was born out of a single Yale dorm room we've moved into the territory of the better Tom Clancy books -- the lack of historical and psychological complexity happily nullified by propulsive storytelling and a well-earned suspension of disbelief. <br />If you're looking for le Carre-style introspection or a genuine  history of the CIA, try elsewhere. But for a rollicking cold war page-turner, The Company's a lot of fun.	2003-06-22
US	49866025	R3VB8AMAIQDW91	0375704779	955718244	Niccolò Rising: The First Book of The House of Niccolò	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Bravura Storytelling	The House of Niccolo, Dunnett's second mammoth historical series, begins here powerfully enough to challenge one's affection for her first, the peerless Lymond Chronicles.<br />Where the Lymond books depicted the aristocracy, this first book of Niccolo digs deep into the merchant middle classes of Fifteenth century Europe, trading some of Lymond's Dumas-style adventuring and near-Wildean wit for an even stronger focus on character -- and emotional clarity.<br />Dunnett whips her fictional world into vivid detail like some wonderous love child of George R.R. Martin and George Eliot -- the endlessly complex, Machievellian back dealings of &quot;Old Europe&quot; here beautifully counterpointed by the emotional lives of the huge cast of characters. The bravura storytelling twists and turns from Bruges to Milan, Scotland to Brittany, all rendered with near supernatural power. Read slowly, read carefully, and this glorious past comes alive like a dream before your mind's eye.<br />Niccolo Rising ends on a startling revelation and an intriguing cliffhanger, and we're off to the next story: only seven left to go.	2003-05-19
US	49866025	R1U0ASOIKGJO23	0425158640	575127070	Idoru	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Near Future Elegance	Despite the cyberpunk/future noir copy on the cover, Idoru is more near-future comedy of manners than thriller, its subtle humor expertly conveyed in William Gibson's increasingly elegant writing. <br />Even Gibson's earliest stories trumped traditonal cyberpunk in their relentless fascination with the shrinking divide between the human and digital. But in Idoru the cybercowboys of Neuromancer have become a hapless everyman and a fourteen year old fangirl -- the too-cool nihlism and cop-out mysticism of the earlier books replaced by a generous sense of character and absurdity.<br />Gibson's near-future metaphysical musings fascinate as much as ever, but in Idoru he's hitched them a more sophisticated vehicle than the original Neuromancer trilogy. While the book does end with a traditional Gibson anticlimax, it manages the neat trick of being both an endlessly colorful and detailed travelogue and a tightly-plotted, propulsively paced narrative.	2003-03-29
US	49866025	R1B3ADR0D8F1YO	0312977891	461702204	Set in Darkness: An Inspector Rebus Novel (Inspector Rebus Novels)	Books	3	2	4	N	N	Well Written, to Little Effect	This is the first of Rankin's Rebus Edinburgh police procedurals I've read, so perhaps I'm simply lacking in backstory, but though this neophyte found Rankin's sharp, astringent dialogue and thoughtfully textured scenes impressive, they eventually add up to not much at all.<br />Spinning far too many characters to keep straight into multiple unrelated subplots that eventually collide seemingly only because its a mystery and they have to, Rankin seems to have little sense of how to tell a compelling story. And though his dialogue is first rate, Rebus, Clarke, and the multitudinous supporting cast never really come alive as characters, just lively noir cliches relocated to Edinburgh. Surely there should be some kind of moratorium on series detectives drinking and listening to classic rock, on either side of the Atlantic, at this late date.<br />But perhaps I've merely chanced upon one bad apple in an apparently beloved series. Ranking writes well enough that at some point I'll give Inspector Rebus another try.	2003-03-25
US	49866025	R1IVI8D0FUJM	0345404335	46057174	The Wars of the Roses	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Breezy, Insightful History	Weir's chronicle of the Wars of the Roses is ideal for interested novices who don't mind a little work, and those drawn to the era by Shakespeare's history plays. There's not a great deal of reference material or notes, and in recounting a large stretch of time the author doesn't get much opportunity to dig deep, but this is pleasantly readable history with at least a hint of narrative flair.<br />The book serves as a good introduction to the conflict, giving the reader enough context for further reading into the many Houses, combatants, and claimants to the throne, and generally keeping its large cast of characters clearly delineated. <br />On the downside: virtually nothing in the way of maps, which would have helped illustrate the battles, and a curiously unexamined authorial tilt toward the Yorkists, which becomes increasingly jarring as the book progresses.	2003-03-11
US	49866025	R1K0VIIDZ3L5KD	0140434356	918354718	Felix Holt, the Radical (Penguin Classics)	Books	4	13	15	N	N	The Political Novel	Felix Holt occupies a middle-tier in the critical estimation of Eliot's novels. It is often disparaged as the \\"political novel,\\" or alternatively \\"the one where the legal subplot is way too complicated.\\"<br />At first, this seems unfair. The early introduction of Mrs. Transome is a showstopper, heroine Esther Lyon fascinates, and the detailed evocation of 19th century rural politics is through Eliot's narrative magic made riveting. <br />But things do go awry in the second half. A big problem is Felix himself: an idealization of a political view rather than a detailed character, the reader loves him rather less than Eliot seems to intend. The legal schenanigans are intriguing, but the tortuous plot machinations through which Felix comes to be imprisoned are near ridiculous. And finally, Esther experiences her moral conversion rather too quickly and tidily, coming to seem just a sketch for Gwendolyn Harleth in the later Daniel Deronda. Indeed, by book's end the most compelling plot thread standing is that of the unfortunate Mrs. Transome.<br />But to say a book isn't as good as Daniel Deronda isn't much of a criticism. For all its faults, Felix Holt is filled with excellent characters, a strong story, and unparalled insight into both 19th century England and the more universal collisions of morality and politics.	2003-03-11
US	49866025	R12KDPRUSD5YCN	0394536487	113206874	The Spooky Art: Some Thoughts on Writing	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Mailer on Mailer	Ostenisbly a tract on writing, The Spooky Art is actually Norman Mailer returning to what he does best: writing about Norman Mailer. Not a new book, but rather a cut and paste job of pieces from the past 30 years linked by a few pages of new contextualization, The Spooky Art is suprisingly engaging. <br />The early sections, detailing the creation of early novels The Naked and The Dead, The Deer Park, and the more less unpublished A Transit to Narcissus, are excellent. Mailer has always been most intriguing (Armies of the Night, Miami and the Siege of Chicago) plumbing his own psyche on the broader stage of  history, and he does his early books justice here.<br />His take on great novels and their relationship with society feels rather anachronistic (not to mention meglomanical) today, but again, the importance of his own novels is still his true subject here, and one needn't agree with Mailer to find his views interesting and well-argued.<br />Things fall apart a bit toward the end of the book, where early seventies film and television criticism feels both out of place and painfully dated, and the final pieces on favorite writers and works are too brief to be much fun. But if you're familiar with much of the Mailer canon and enjoy his ramrod, argumentative prose, you'll likely find most of this collection rewarding.	2003-02-09
US	49866025	R1YLQ5LKLHVF2P	0060959517	20324026	Elizabeth: The Struggle for the Throne	Books	4	6	8	N	N	Elizabeth For Beginners	Starkey's enjoyable Elizabethan entry is neither biography nor traditional history, but rather a fast-moving narrative that turns Elizabeth's pre-coronation life into a suspenseful game of chess between the Tudor sisters and their respective faiths.<br />Elizabeth's bumpy journey from princess to traitor to Queen is covered in a series of short, punchy chapters providing just enough period detail not to slow things down. While this account won't be mistaken for a scholarly work, it is more than just a 'greatest hits' collection on Elizabeth's rise. Starkey provides concise sketches of many of the period's best and brightest, a thorough sense of historical context, and maintains a lively sense of humor throughout. <br />We'll forgive the author's fondness for awkward anachronism given his success in making complex events come alive, and returning some narrative to English history. While the book may give hives to the more knowledgable, it's great fun for Elizabethan beginners.	2003-02-09
US	49866025	R6TCTDGQ4NROZ	0380731851	733601761	Mystic River	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Sad and Soulful	Bursting typical genre straightjackets of 'mystery' or 'police procedural,' the brooding, melancholy Mystic River includes elements of both, but puts them in the service of a gripping, fatalistic story.<br />Deeply involving from its first paragraphs, this unusually potent crime novel manages to consistently lay bare the wounded hearts of its hardcase protagonists without ever dipping into sentiment or genre fakery. Not since the early days of James Ellroy has pop crime fiction been so fixated on character, but where Ellroy created lurid masterpieces of near-psychotic aberration, Lehane's people are unforgettable in their ordinariness. For crime novel characters, they're shockingly real.<br />Mystic River isn't for the faint of heart, not because of its violence but because of its genuine despair and anguish. Pulsating with a visceral sense of loss, yet thrilling and compulsively entertaining throughout, this is hands-down one of the best thrillers of recent years.	2003-01-30
US	49866025	RA7WLCC088NDM	0743400542	742789414	You're Only as Good as Your Next One: 100 Great Films, 100 Good Films, and 100 for Which I Should Be Shot	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Substantial Look at the Movie Business	Hollywood memoirs tend to be annoyingly content free, so this lengthy insider tome from agent, studio chief, and producer Medavoy comes as a pleasant surprise. Ego reasonably in check (at least by studio chief standards) Medavoy (and writer Young) go into substantial detail on how movies get made, why they usually don't, and why when they do they're often dreadful.<br />Medavoy's perspective is particularly interesting because he's played an active role in the industry since the late 1960's, and so can offer a ringside account of how the business has changed from the counter-culture, director-driven 70's Hollywood to the 6,000 screen opening, watch-the-foreign-grosses film biz of today.<br />No, you won't get the juicy gossip of Robert Evans' and Peter Biskind's Hollywood histories here, but you will find an enjoyable account of how movies are put together.	2003-01-30
US	49866025	R22DVXK08DNLPR	0815411219	199052756	George Eliot: The Last Victorian	Books	3	19	23	N	N	Workmanlike Bio	Hughes' life of Eliot is solid, comprehensive, and given its dazzling subject, remarkably tedious. The book provides an ample chronicle of Eliot's documented life without ever bringing Marian Evans or her marvelous writings to life. <br />Hughes is much better at piling on the details of Victorian intellectual life than working her way inside the creative processes that created Middlemarch, Adam Bede, and Daniel Deronda. The first half of the book, covering Evans' family life and difficult early adulthood, reads well, the impressive accumulation of research making up for lack of narrative.<br />But when Evans creates Eliot and the first of her fictions, the book should snap to life. It instead deflates, dutifully cranking out novel synopses and recounting scandals without ever getting at why Eliot's fiction was so beloved in her day, and remains so today.<br />A novelist of uncanny power and tremendous influence, Eliot deserves a biography at the level of Peter Ackroyd's spectacular life of Dickens. We're still waiting...	2003-01-25
US	49866025	R2QSXQGN6S4W3K	0670030643	89209679	The Eyre Affair	Books	2	13	18	N	N	Terrific Premise Wasted	First time author Fforde starts with a wonderful premise and a winningly whimsical tone...and proceeds to entirely botch the execution.<br />If you've read the flap copy you've got the premise: in a rabidly bibliophile alternate universe UK, a new invention allows you to enter original manuscripts of great literature and, well, muck with them. Fforde takes his tone from Douglas Adams and Adams-era Dr. Who, mixed with just enough literary erudition not to alienate anyone who made it though senior year English.<br />Sounds great -- but the book is truly dire. Fforde seems to feel that farce relieves him of all responsibilities in plotting, characterization, and even consistency. He introduces multiple pointless time travel paradoxes, gives us a villain who can stop bullets for no reason at all, and having established his rules for moving in and out of literature, eventually breaks them all. Toward the finish the book becomes so depressingly lazy, developments so random, that one is hard pressed to reach the end.<br />So, no suspense, no emotion, and not even many laughs. While the Eyre Affair is certainly a quick read, it becomes quickly annoying to see such a terrific premise wasted.	2003-01-22
US	49866025	R25TK6YSJVYTPS	0192833383	424220149	The Moonstone (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	3	2	5	N	N	Careful With that Opium	Still speaking to us across the ages is Collins' archtypal detective story, the lengthly tale of a stolen diamond  consisting of no less than eight major narratives. While Collins' meticulously plotted mystery is most famous for its complex construction and detailed detective work, its &quot;solution&quot; has aged so appallingly that it is really the narrative voices that most appeal to the modern reader.<br />It's problematic then, that the most interesting narrators, butler extraordinaire Gabriel Betteredge and wonderously mortifying spinster Miss Clack speak first, while the endless wrap-up is given over to tediously forthright hero Franklin Blake. Things perk up at the end as poignant Ezra Jennings briefly takes over, but Blake quickly dispatches him and continues with his own colorless narration.<br />Considering its advanced age, the first half of this book works surprisingly well, but the latter sections sag badly. For those interested in the period or genre, The Moonstone is a fascinating relic, but not quite a fully functioning mystery.	2003-01-06
US	49866025	R3DQ8BYRRWHJRY	0441005969	950318092	Riddle-Master	Books	3	16	24	N	N	McKillip's Beginnings	To those familiar with Patricia McKillip's recent work, gorgeously evocative miniatures like The Book of Atrix Wolfe and Winter Rose, The Riddle-Master trilogy is an intriguing puzzle: one of the few modern fantasy writers capable of concision got her start with a three book epic.<br />But while Riddle-Master is instructional to fans of the author's later books, it feels like one of those stories that must be read young to really work -- it's a sprawling hero's quest, overflowing with McKillip's trademark dreamlike prose, but this not yet entirely controlled style isn't necessarily suited to a complex, lengthy narrative. <br />As the characters become so powerful they can change into any form, cross countries in the blink of any eye, the many kings, kingdoms, and creatures blend into a lovely monotony, and eventually only the resolution of the books' central mysteries keeps one reading.<br />That said, if you've kept faith with Morgon, Raederle, and Deth, the finish is spectacular, the place of women within the narrative is a sparkling rebuke to Tolkien and Jordan, and I suspect that if I had read these books twenty years ago I would love them dearly.	2003-01-06
US	49866025	R1QEJKI534CG70	0743410513	605962018	The Unburied	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Victorian Mysteries	More than a simple Victorian pastiche, The Unburied is something of a conversation between eras and viewpoints in the tradition of A.S. Byatt and Umberto Eco. Clearly out of his depth historian/narrator Dr. Edward Courtine effectively shares his interest in the past of the English cathedral town of Thurchester even as academic skullduggery, past betrayals, and  ghost stories swirl about him. <br />For a timid academic, Courtine makes a surpringly charismatic protagonist, his account inadvertently making clear his limitations as professor and detective as events outpace him, his historical excursions into Thurchester's past fascinating, and his hinted upon past with old school chum Austin increasingly intriguing.<br />The Unburied stumbles only toward the end, where it devolves into a fairly straightforward murder mystery, the solution of which is far less interesting than our narrator, who is abandoned in a surprisingly ineffective use of the Wilkie Collins' tradition of using multiple narratives to wrap up a mystery.<br />But despite the lackluster wind-up, this is an atmospheric and entertaining story, using styles of another era to great effect.	2003-01-05
US	49866025	R1T3N4IK2DPES6	0375726403	340719393	Empire Falls	Books	4	10	12	N	N	85% Wonderful	Empire Falls is a nearly wonderful book, a meaty, character-rich novel of the sort it's frequently claims nobody writes (or possibly buys) anymore. The writing is not elegant and occasionally even clumsy, but the book's depth of feeling and sharp, astringent humor more than make up for it.<br />Russo manages the rare trick of making an appealing lead out of a passive character in put-upon Empire Diner proprietor Miles Roby, but even more impressive are Miles' irresponsible father, Max, and soon to be ex-wife Janine. Singularly unpleasant individuals, Russo manages to nonetheless dig deep into each, making their interior lives so vivid that both become nearly appealing. And wrapped abount the town's comings and goings are the machinations of wealthy Francine Whiting, providing a fairy-tale backdrop to the otherwise realistic, slice of life story.<br />All of this is compulsively readable and tremendously appealing, until a wind-up worthy of an underachieving TV movie. The book here jumps the rails into lurid melodrama, cheapening its characters and their world in an apparent reach for some kind of big finish. All it feels is false.<br />Empire Falls is a novel well worth reading, but has the author been watching too much cable?	2002-12-12
US	49866025	RFADUAPAPKR8P	0618131736	383055969	The Best American Short Stories 2002 (The Best American Series)	Books	3	16	18	N	N	A Creeping Sameness	It feels somewhat churlish to complain about this collection of extremely well-written stories, but as it's claiming to be &quot;America's Best,&quot; here goes...<br />Taken on their own, there is probably nothing wrong with any of these pieces. Michael Chabon has certainly done better work than 'Along the Frontage Road,' and Richard Russo has applied his tremendous ability to tales less pat and familiar than &quot;The Puppy,' but these aren't bad stories. It's just that so many of them feel so similar. Reading too much of this book in one sitting creates a kind of mesmerizing monotony.<br />Some gems break the plodding pattern: Jhumpa Lahiri's grad student romance 'Noboby's Business,' fascinates, E.L. Doctrow's 'A House on the Plain' has more twisting plot than any three of his novels, and Beth Lordan's 'Digging' moves with wildly unexpected shifts in time and place -- an epic in miniature. Two stories about troubled mathematicians, 'Zilkowski's Theorem' and 'Nachman From Los Angeles,' also impress.<br />But overall this collection feels more exhausted than inspired. Perhaps this is the result of too many stories (eight out of twenty) plucked from The New Yorker, or the particular preferences of This-Year's-Name-Guest-Editor Sue Miller, but surely there must be more variety to American short fiction than the tales encountered here would indicate.	2002-12-03
US	49866025	R1F36XTGGYJXCX	0060280921	703135449	Abarat	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Barker's Forte	Abarat marks something a of comeback from one time wunderkind Barker, who for a slew of books (The Books of Blood, The Damnation Game, Weaveworld, The Great & Secret Show, Imagica, The Thief of Always, and Everville) seemed to redefine fantasy & horror in popular fiction. Wildly imaginative and surprisingly literate, these leftfield blockbusters had little in common with what passed for genre publishing in the early nineties.<br />Then came trouble: the \\"personal\\" Sacrament, commendable but also, for the first time, dull in spots, the bizarro Galilee (stick with it for the first 400 pages and it gets interesting in the last 50), and finally the entirely unsalvagable Coldheart Canyon, a Barker novel of pure tedium.<br />Each of these titles was increasingly \\"realistic,\\" and as Coldheart Canyon made abundantly clear, nothing bores Barker like the real. In seemingly reaching for the NYT Bestseller List, the master magician was starting to put his core audience to sleep.<br />Abarat does a reasonable job of rectifying the situation. J.K. Rowling has set free Barker's prodigious imagination with that suddenly common refrain \\"it's a children's book,\\" and the conjurer is cooking again.<br />While Abarat doesn't immediately climb the heights of Weaveworld or Imagica it is cut from their fabulist cloth -- with stiches of Everville's Lewis Carroll influence worked in. The series won't challenge Harry Potter -- Barker has neither Rowling's quick wit nor narrative drive -- but its boldly colored new world teases and pleases with Barkerian monsters, eccentrics, and wacky place names, and if this first volume is more travelogue than tale, it promises much fun to come.<br />As to it being a children's book, well, the language is simpler and there's less disembowlment than usual, but Arabat will likely please mature fans of Barker's early work much more than the \\"adult\\" Coldheart Canyon.	2002-11-14
US	49866025	R3IW9J6UO5SJJ	0786886323	399419494	Carter Beats the Devil	Books	3	5	10	N	N	Less Than the Sum of Its Parts	Carter Beats the Devil begins in flash of narrative razzle-dazzle, with magician Charles Carter vaguely implicated in the mysterious death of President Warren Harding. In the middle of this intriguing mystery it steps back in time to show young Carter's transformation from privledged child to lowly vaudeville performer to headliner and Houdini protege. Finally it returns to the initial narrative to solve its mysteries in a cinematic humdinger of a climax, with an unexpected twist to boot. <br />Sounds like a great story, right?<br />Unfortunately, inserted into the middle of the book are about two hundred pages where nothing happens, fatally damaging a novel that's all about flashy illustion and misdirection. The book has all the necessary elements of a terrific adventure story, but the author's literary aspirations and exhaustive historical research seem to get the better of him.<br />The characters on display simply carry no subtext. They have have more than enough clever dialogue but no ability to show us emotion -- Gold must tell us, even while he's keeping major secrets, per the dictates of his plot. The end result is that while Carter makes a terrific action hero, he can't hold the stage in the absence of narrative movement. Battling bafflingly diabolical fellow magician Mysterioso or incompetent secret service agents Carter wows us. Driving aimlessly around San Francisco on his motorcycle, grieving for his long dead wife, he loses us.<br />Once can easily imagine this material sharpened down into a terrific film, but as a novel its as frustrating as it is entertaining.	2002-11-09
US	49866025	R1SNE3HHSZ1NSA	0316836311	860438753	The Trust: The Private and Powerful Family Behind The New York Times	Books	3	10	11	N	N	Beside the Times	This massive chronicle of the Ochs-Sulzbergers and their stewardship of the New York Times gets off to a fascinating start, dramatizing Adolph Ochs' purchase of the then nothing New-York Times and detailing his wildly successful efforts to build a paper of note.<br />But once Ochs vanishes from the narrative, bequeathing the editorship to son-in-law Arthur Sulzberger, the book slowly loses steam. Focus shifts from the newsroom to the myriad Ochs-Sulzberger relatives and their beside-the-Times activities, in response to which a reader can only offer a heartfelt shrug.<br />In defense of The Trust it has been pointed out that the authors set out to write about the family rather than the paper, but apparently there's little of inherent interest in the Ochs-Sulzbergers outside the Times. Down the backstretch, the authors seem as bored as the reader, dutifully recounting the gossipy infighting among far-flung cousins.<br />The Trust, excellent as much of it is, comes to seem unfortunately conceived -- the newsroom coverage is exemplary, but the beside the Times gossip grows quickly tiresome.	2002-11-09
US	49866025	R1KARGW7BGPDRW	0786886323	399419494	Carter Beats the Devil	Books	3	0	2	N	N	Less Than the Sum of Its Parts	Carter Beats the Devil begins in flash of narrative razzle-dazzle, with magician Charles Carter vaguely implicated in the mysterious death of President Warren Harding. In the middle of this intriguing mystery it steps back in time to show young Carter's transformation from privledged child to lowly vaudeville performer to headliner and Houdini protege. Finally it returns to the initial narrative to solve its mysteries in a cinematic humdinger of a climax, with an unexpected twist to boot. <br />Sounds like a great story, right?<br />Unfortunately, inserted into the middle of the book are about two hundred pages where nothing happens, fatally damaging a novel that's all about flashy illusion and misdirection. Carter Beats the Devil has all the necessary elements of a terrific adventure story, but the author's literary aspirations and exhaustive historical research seem to get the better of him.<br />The characters simply carry no subtext. They have have more than enough clever dialogue but no ability to show us emotion -- Gold must tell us, even while he's keeping major secrets, per the dictates of his plot. The end result is that while Carter makes a terrific action hero, he can't hold the stage in the absence of narrative movement. Battling bafflingly diabolical fellow magician Mysterioso or incompetent secret service agents Carter wows us. Driving aimlessly around San Francisco on his motorcycle, grieving for his long dead wife, he loses us.<br />Once can easily imagine this material sharpened down into a terrific film, but as a novel it's as frustrating as it is entertaining.	2002-11-09
US	49866025	R2ADWQD4L9RIKP	037571362X	115735345	Bacchus and Me: Adventures in the Wine Cellar	Books	3	5	6	N	N	Enjoyable and Unhelpful	Would it have been so much trouble to subject McInerney's collection of wine columns to some minor editorial work before publishing them as a book? There's much to like about the individual pieces here, but reading them sequentially becomes kind of annoying.<br />First off, the repetition is ridiculous. Helen Turley, \\"the wine goddess,\\" should pay or possibly sue McInerney for mentioning her every third paragraph, and even some jokes get recycled. More frustrating is the lack of context: as this book is squarely pitched to the uneducated wine enthusiast, a little contextualizing would go a long way to making the columns actually useful(as would the occasional sop to those of us not regularly spending over $100 a bottle). And eventually we tire of hearing about the fabulous literary/oenophile dinner parties to which Jay is constantly invited.<br />All that said, the columns are funny and opinionated, and give a nice overview of a wide range of grapes and manufacturers. I'm sure reading one a month would be perfectly satisfying. It's just a shame the publisher was so lazy in assembling this package.	2002-11-02
US	49866025	R1N7UPVWSY8ANS	014044615X	543411005	The Count of Monte Cristo (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Pure Story	First off, if your copy of The Count of Monte Cristo is only 350 pages long, throw it out and get this one. As far as I can tell this is the only unabridged translation currently available in the U.S., and the others abridge, oh, 75% of the book. I think that's usually called Cliff Notes.<br />This 800 pound, 1100 page gorilla is a marvel of perpetual storytelling, a spellbinding page-turner despite its length, a plot so complicated one senses even the author had only a tenuous grasp upon it, and Dumas' prose style, the elegance of which might charitably be compared to King or Lovecraft.<br />Doesn't matter -- 150 years on the culture's archetypal revenge drama still kicks like nobody's business. The initial betrayal of Edouard Dantes, his politically expedient persecution at the hands of an unscrupulous prosecutor, and his imprisonment in and escape from the Chateau D'If are the bits we recall from a dozen films, rip-offs, cartoons. But that's just the first 300 pages.<br />Then comes the dazzling if at first puzzling stop-off for Carnival in Rome, where Dumas puts his predilication for stories within stories to spectacular use, and then Paris, where the bulk of the novel turns on The Count of Monte Cristo's mind-bogglingly complex plot to avenge himself against the four principals of his ruin.<br />Does the plot hinge on one unlikely coincidence after another? Does the writing turn ludicrously purple? Can anyone, including Dumas, keep track of all these characters? <br />Again, it just doesn't matter. This locomotive of pure story won't be denied. The pages fly by, leading to a conclusion of suprising power. The Count of Monte Cristo is considered to be one of the first \\"popular\\" novels ever written -- it remains one of the best. If only our current popular novelists could work such magic.	2002-11-02
US	49866025	R23KJJUBB6JTMI	1582342407	839075869	What Just Happened? Bitter Hollywood Tales from the Front Line	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Excellent, Bitter Pamphlet	What Just Happened consists of behind the scenes tales of the making of The Edge, Great Expectations, Pushing Tin, and Fight Club from film producer Art Linson. <br />The stories are pretty great. Bitter and specific to a degree not usually found in Hollywood books not written by Julia Phillips, these have the nasty ring of truth, and are very funny. <br />The only problem with this book is that it barely qualifies as one. There's barely enough text here to fill an ambitious pamphlet. Surely there was more to be written about the making of the wildly controversial Fight Club (like how it managed to get made in the first place) than just describing how the finished product power-freaked the Fox marketing department.<br />Also padding out the length is a bizarre framing story wherein Linson is telling these tales to a memorably creepy ex-studio head. Pitch black as these segments are, they feel both repetitive and vaguely untrue, a bit of theatricality whipped up to hammer home Linson's bitter points. The book doesn't need them, but I guess they added a few more pages.	2002-11-02
US	49866025	RFB7RGN5NUOU5	0345423402	497739972	A Kiss of Shadows (Meredith Gentry, Book 1)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Faerie Princess	Teensy but tough private investigator specializing in the supernatural comes up against...the supernatural? Doesn't sound radically (or at all) different from Hamilton's Anita Blake vampire noir series.<br />Yet Kiss of Shadows quickly establishes its own distinct, enjoyable tone. Whereas the Blake books are distinguished primarily by Anita's wry, appealing voice and their neck-snapping violence, this book succeeds in creating a compelling, detailed fantasy universe. Once heroine Meredith Gentry is revealed to be a faerie princess, more Spenser than Spenser for Hire, the awkward P.I. angle is entirely dropped.<br />Hamilton's Faerie realm suffers some of the blitheness of her wackily vampiric St. Louis at its insections with the real world, but once on Sidhe territory the book really moves. The Sidhe themselves, and the ogres, brownies, and beasties that surround them, continually impress, as does the nastily intricate court intrigue.<br />As with the later Blake books, there's a lot of drearily adolescent \\"adult\\" sexuality, but otherwise this is a clear improvement on them. While I wouldn't immediately search out the sequel, Kiss of Shadows turns out to be a surprisingly potent fantasy.	2002-10-23
US	49866025	R2IPPD34WEYF6M	0805069305	260690598	Vermeer: A View of Delft	Books	4	15	16	N	N	Excellent Non-Biography	Anthony Bailey's somewhat misleadingly titled Vermeer not-quite-biography is meticulously researched, lovingly detailed, and suffused with a powerful affection and appreciation for both Vermeer's painting and Dutch history. It is only ever less than fascinating when dealing with the old master himself.<br />So little is known of Vermeer as to leave his biographers only slightly better off than those of Shakespeare, imagining that this document indicated this mood, this painting signifies that political opinion...such supposition is not terribly interesting to the lay reader.<br />But in his detailed recreation of 17th century Delft and his lush and delicate descriptions of the major canvases, Bailey makes up for the limitations of his subject. This period of Dutch history is so rich it seems almost a shame to spend so much of the text on a figure about whom so little is known, and Bailey recounts it beautifully.<br />An excellent book, then, unless one really wants a biography of Vermeer.	2002-10-16
US	49866025	R154ACUX827KX7	0316739367	688687238	Martin Sloane: A Novel	Books	3	7	9	N	N	Something Missing...	Martin Sloane is a spare, evocative little novel about love and loss. It's authoritatively written and conjures a pleasant low-key melancholy. It reads quickly.<br />It is not, however, particularly memorable. Which is puzzling -- the story begins powerfully and narrator Jolene and her best friend Molly fascinate throughout. <br />The trouble seems to lie with the title character, who is perhaps even more a cypher than author Redhill intended. Yes, the crux of the tale revolves around Jolene's, and our, inability to truly know Sloane. Yet as a character in a fiction he seems so tenuously drawn, despite lengthy, structurally awkward flashbacks to his childhood, that one must take Jolene &amp; Molly's interest in him on faith.<br />Moreover, Sloane is clearly based upon artist Joseph Cornell and his mysterious, magical boxes. Aside from dry catalog listings opening each section, Sloane's boxes are barely described. To choose a subject as distinct as Cornell's luminous work and then barely utilize it feels like a cheat. Perhaps unfairly, I spent much of the book wondering what a writer like Steven Millhauser would do with such an opportunity.<br />This is a nicely written little book, but there's some crucial element missing from it.	2002-10-15
US	49866025	R1N1CYLZMAWUDN	0679640304	627682796	Possession: A Romance (Modern Library)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Enthralling, but...	Without doubt, Byatt's much-beloved Possession is a tremendous achievement, creating two enthralling romances and believably spanning centuries, conjuring from scratch the life and work of two legendary poets who never existed. From the outset, the entirely original pairing of wan academics Roland and Maud fascinates -- the eventual coming together of these two to whom loneliness is not necessarily a curse feels both novel and true.<br />The brutal and rhapsodic affair between Victorian poets Ash &amp; Christabel is (knowlingly) more the stuff of melodrama, but told through letters and diaries, their forceful and particular personalities make them as interesting as the neurotic scholars.<br />There is much beside the terrific characters that fascinates in this rich book, thoughts on poetry and scholarship and, well, possession, that resonate powerfully between the two periods. And yet, as the book draws to a close with a winkingly silly &quot;melodrama&quot; denouement, complete with a secret revelation of ancestry, some of its magic fades. Much as the pastiches of Ash &amp; Christabel's major work begin as great fun but come eventually to feel like authorial showing off, so the final chapters seem too self-aware, an underlining of the &quot;A Romance,&quot; subtitle that feels like a vague betrayal of the reality of these vivid characters. As if the author does not trust herself or her critical following to accept the tall-tale format of this story, and so must set quotation marks around it.	2002-10-13
US	49866025	R2UPPFTUQPE68R	0345444388	397145373	The Scar (Bas-Lag)	Books	5	47	49	N	N	The Real Thing	For anyone who spent days in the nightmarish thrall of Perdido Street Station, China Mieville's breathtakingly literate and imaginative monstravaganza, the first question about The Scar must be, was he able do it again? The answer is no, but this turns out to be a good thing.<br />Particularly in its opening, this sea quest tale disappoints in relation to Perdido Street: though the floating city of Aramada is a marvelous creation, it lacks the incredible density of detail and heights of grotesquerie of New Crobuzon, which here plays a supporting, offstage role. One appreciates Armada without loving and fearing it like New Crobuzon.<br />Yet as the novel picks up steam we find these feelings precisely mirrored in perfectly named protagonist Bellis Coldwine. As the wickedly sharp plot begins to twist and turn, Mieville again conjures tales of wonder from the far corners of Bas-Lag, provides us with lovingly bizarre set-pieces and characters, and his story begins to fascinate.<br />The Scar isn't the once in a lifetime book of nightmares Perdido Street Station was, but it is a better novel. The characters are far stronger: Coldwine, Uther Doul, Tanner Sack, Sheckel and Angevine, drive the story rather than vanishing beneath it. The narrative is purposeful, surprising and satisfying. Mieville has taken his protean talents of worldbuilding and description and harnessed them to a serious, adult story. <br />Perdido Street, for all its genre-blending, was a horror story at heart. The Scar is less gruesome and nihlistic, though still refreshingly far from sentimental. It's palette and worldview are broader, its characters its heart. One could argue that among its few flaws, the book is too brief -- I could have gladly learned more of The Lovers, the Brucolac.<br />With this intelligent, exhilarating adventure story, Mieville stakes his claim as a first rate novelist -- no apologizing for genre -- he's the real thing.	2002-10-10
US	49866025	R21S7TJ5E28VY3	0312421273	647099960	The Corrections: A Novel	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Spectacular Family Saga	The Corrections, last year's It Book, turns out to even better than its hype would indicate. Scathing, disturbing, deeply felt, and laugh out loud funny (sometimes all one page), this novel manages to capture a very particular point in time (America at the end of the boom) while feeling generously and effortlessly universal.<br />Each of the characters is painfully sympathetic and completely infuriating in turn, their mental landscapes sometimes nightmarish but always compelling and occasionally, naggingly, familiar. Franzen repeatedly turns the remarkable tonal trick of juggling powerfully emotional scenes with those of near farce. Wonderful set pieces abound, begging to read aloud: Chip's swordfish, Gary at the IPO, anything on the cruise.<br />And just when you think the book too rich to be brought to any kind of satisfying conclusion, Franzen pulls off a lovely, low-key finish that carries his wide-ranging story to a graceful close.	2002-10-03
US	49866025	R8NHWOM8Q8GPC	0441007309	866601457	Dark Sleeper: A Novel	Books	2	4	6	N	N	The Worst of Dickens &amp; Lovecraft	Dark Sleeper is an odd duck of a novel, a Weird Tales-style story told in the form of a Dickens pastiche. Though perhaps unlikely sounding, the idea is reasonably fresh, a quality sorely lacking in currently published fantasy.<br />Bafflingly, though, Barlough has chosen to pastiche not Dicken's skill with description and character, but his most annoying depictions of behavioral and verbal &quot;comic&quot; grotesquerie -- rather than capturing the tone and feel of Dickensian storytelling, Barlough instead conjures the most horrendous bits of Nicholas Nickelby and The Pickwick Papers, eccentrics talking nonsense for pages to finish out Dickens' weekly word quota.<br />After fifty pages or so this gets pretty tired, but at least there's some nominally creepy Lovecraftian spookiness going on. This holds one's attention to mid-book, at which point the entire mystery is explained in thudding exposition. This recreates the worst of Lovecraft: the rare bits when he stopped to explain what hell was going on. From that point on Dark Sleeper is just silly.<br />Still, two stars for intent: this isn't another cynically motivated would-be bestseller. Barlough clearly loves the material he pastiches -- he just hasn't managed to pull a successful novel out of it.	2002-10-03
US	49866025	R2T0IRLN1TRFWY	0449006972	71254966	Gertrude and Claudius: A Novel	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Revisionist Prequel	Gertrude and Claudius serves as concise prequel to Hamlet, pivoting around the basic idea (quoted from G. Wilson Knight in Updike's Afterword): \\"Claudius seems a capable King, Gertrude a noble Queen, Ophelia a treasure of sweetness, Polonius a tedious but not evil counselor, Laertes a generic young man. Hamlet pulls them all to death.\\"<br />This seems promising material for a novel, yet Gertrude and Claudius, for all fascination of its titular couple, remains frustratingly unengaging. Gertrude particularly is vivid, believable, and sympathetic, yet this novel built around her frequently drags, over a very slender length.<br />I suspect the problem lies in Updike's style being suited neither to the era (at least as we're used to reading of it) or Shakespeare's tragedy. His obsessively detailed eye reaps wonders when feasting upon the internal workings of the Queen & her lover, yet turned outward upon the chambers and towers and objects d'art of Elisore it eventually bores. We know from so many experiences of reading and seeing Hamlet that despite or because of its philosophical heft, this story MOVES. Gertrude and Claudius does not.<br />But it is brief, so if a revisionist and ornate prequel to Hamlet sounds appealing, give Updike a try.	2002-10-02
US	49866025	R3ROZQM24G34GS	0345441036	237509158	Black House	Books	2	1	1	N	N	Vaguely Distasteful Mess	A big disappointment coming on the heels of the excellent Dreamcatcher and Hearts in Atlantis, Black House proves beyond a shadow of a doubt that fantasy lies beyond the reach of Stephen King's otherwise potent talents.<br />Three stories vye for precedence in this increasingly dopey pop opus: the police procedural it begins as, mannered but quite readable, the serial killer/horror show it seques into, disgusting but scareless, and finally an epic fantasy so woefully undetailed it feels like a joke.<br />The Territories, not a vividly imagined otherworld even in The Talisman, are here a low-budget renaissance fair of cliches, but not even they can compete with the spectacularly colorless and resonance-free hodgepodge of Dark Tower mythology. A clutch of capitalized names and little more, the Dark Tower/Crimson King/Breakers/Gunslingers mess has covered four volumes on its own, infected unrelated volumes of King fiction, yet remains so underdetailed we can only what its all about, and why we should care.<br />King (I'm not forgetting Straub, but his presence here seems limited to the midwest, small-town setting) cranks up the pretension, neglects to endow his hero and heroine with any measure of personality (though some of the supporting players are energetically realized cliches -- cool, adept blind guy, cycle gang with Ph.Ds and hearts of gold) and adds insult to injury by shamelessly milking the child abuse/murder angle for all its worth and then pretending this is anything more than grotty exploitation.<br />The final hundred pages defy any modicum of storytelling sense, and come complete with a particularly dopey coda. The Talisman was no Lord of the Rings, but at least it successfully melded King's narrative drive with Straub's elegance -- Black House is just a vaguely distasteful mess.	2002-09-29
US	49866025	R2RL9JHYNEJ1QR	0316666343	784206304	The Lovely Bones	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Mesmerizing Ghost Story	Reading this brief, intense, and mesmerizing novel is an almost extra-literary experience. The startling mix of gentle tone and gruesome tale grips from the first lines -- and before long I felt as if I were dreaming the story rather then reading it. I found it difficult to concentrate on anything else while not reading, and finally had to put everything on hold just to finish the damn thing (and yes, dreamed vividly of being in the story while still in the midst of reading it.)<br />The Lovely Bones is a tough book to describe -- it feels kind of like the greatest Young Adult novel ever written. Mixing girl's coming of age, suspense, and romance elements with a clear eyed portrait of overwhelming grief, peopled with vividly realized, familiar-yet-mysterious characters, its as pure a page turner as anything Stephen King ever penned, yet from page one evokes a visceral emotional response. There's a unique sense of wonder here, a hard-earned tenderness shimmering throughout.<br />As powerful as The Lovely Bones feels while you're reading it, the novel seems to shrink immediately upon completion -- in memory, the story feels a little small, the characters and conclusion in the end a bit too affirming. But this takes little away from the transporting experience of reading this peculiar and penetrating tale.	2002-09-23
US	49866025	R1QSOFQNA1IXKI	0375701435	527840513	Little Kingdoms (Vintage Contemporaries)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Picturesque Tales	The first of the three novellas that comprise this book, The Little Kingdom of J. Franklin Payne, is by itself worth the price of admission. Unusually direct for Millhauser, the story of an obsessed cartoonist in turn of the century New York engages the emotions as well as the intellect, creating a quietly heartbreaking family portrait while vividly depicting the joys and agonies of iconoclastic creativity. <br />The Princess, the Dwarf, and the Dungeon is a yet another post-modern fairy tale, but after a slow start becomes quite intriguing, let down only by an overly facile conclusion.<br />Catalogue of the Exhibition is a brilliant idea -- the story of an artist and his circle told in the catalogue for an exhibition of his work -- and seems perfect for Millhauser, whose love for (and skill at) describing invented painting and drawing seemingly knows no bounds, yet this novella disappoints. The &quot;Catalogue&quot; idea seems tacked on as the entries grow to fill pages barely about the painting at hand, and the story never quite punches through the conceit. But we do get some wonderfully spooky descriptions of Lovecraftian canvases.<br />Millhauser's certainly an acquired taste and not for everyone, but if you've enjoyed any of his other work this collection, particularly its fine first tale, will likely please.	2002-09-23
US	49866025	R11X510F921HVE	0192833642	699219043	The Mill on the Floss (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	4	15	16	N	N	The Mystery of George Eliot	Is George Eliot the world's greatest novelist? There's certainly an argument to be made, based on her classics Middlemarch and Daniel Deronda, which feature characters as complex and vividly, bafflingly alive as those of Shakespeare.<br />Yet today she seems curiously unread and under-appreciated, certainly in comparison to her contemporary, Charles Dickens. This has long mystified me, but perhaps I've found the solution in Mill on the Floss.<br />Seemingly the best known of her books, Mill on the Floss is certainly the one most frequently taught in high schools and colleges. And it's probably enough to guarantee that most students forced through it or its Cliff Notes won't bother with her again.<br />Not that it's a bad book. If you like Eliot, you'll find plenty of her riveting, obsessive characterization and dramatic psychology here. But along with these come a fractured, frustrating structure, a dearth of narrative drive, and endless passages of phonetic, &quot;naturalistic&quot; rural accents. Not to mention an ending so out of left field it seems to belong to an entirely different story. Unlike Middlemarch and Daniel Deronda, or even early but more successful novels like Adam Bede, Mill on the Floss is work, and its rewards are more modest.<br />Mill on the Floss seems to rate the academic attention because of its autobiographical elements, perhaps for its dazzling heroine, rather than its overall quality. So don't let an underwhelmed response to this fascinating if flawed book keep you from the rest of her amazing work -- she might be the best novelist out there.	2002-09-05
US	49866025	R3LE476C3CWH8S	0375727167	565829447	The War Against Cliche: Essays and Reviews 1971-2000	Books	4	1	3	N	N	Collected Amis	Very few write more engagingly on writing than Martin Amis. His mix of trenchant wit, dazzling prose, and earnest love of literature make for a powerful combination, the depth of which may suprise those who've made only a cursory reading of his seemingly caustic novels.<br />This is a collection of essays and reviews from nearly thirty years, so all his favorites are well represented. Lots of Nabokov and Bellow and Updike, but also hilarious pieces on the likes of Michael Crichton and Thomas Harris. The opening take on Iron John is laugh out loud funny even for those who don't entirely recall that particular pop culture moment, and Amis' takes on chess and football are as learned and lively as ever.<br />As in any reprint collection, there are pieces of more and less interest depending on your own reading, but I could have done with another couple hundred pages -- surely Amis has written enough over the years to fill a few more signatures.<br />If not as exciting as a new Amis novel, War Against Cliche makes a nice stopgap until his next fiction.	2002-09-05
US	49866025	R2U0P8EW1BWGIJ	0553580515	417245650	Passage	Books	2	4	12	N	N	Flatline	A major disappointment. The tremendously talented Connie Willis writing a novel on near-death experiences (NDEs) promises much. With her signature mix of wit, morbitity, and intellectual acuity, one expects great things -- but the result (despite referencing and disparaging the film) is a really, really long, dull knockoff of eighties camp classic Flatliners.<br />A big problem: the \\"wit.\\" Not only do the seemingly endless parade of eccentrics chatter for pages at a time, virtual none of them are funny past the first appearance. Each is a one joke stick figure, yet recurs endlessly. Yes, the characters are annoyed by them, too, but come on -- literally hundreds of pages are given over to this stuff.<br />Sadly, the main characters suffer the same 'one trait stick figure' problem. Heroine Joanne is somewhat appealing in that she shares the dry, exasperated good sense and competence of Willis protagonists, but she has no life outside the 'mystery' beyond her woefully cliched mantalk with stick figure ER doc best friend. The less said about theoretical romantic interest Dr. Wright (Dr. Right -- get it!?) the better. <br />Poor characters needn't sink a medical mystery thriller. Many do fine without them. The biggest problem with Passage is, unaccountably, the biggest problem with Flatliners: are we really supposed to believe that the dreamlike, suggestive impressions of patients drugged to simulate a near death experience have any objective meaning? It's absurd. These are clearly subjective events. Willis acknowledges this at first, debunking NDE mysticism and focusing on brain chemistry, but by midway this rigor is all but forgotten, as the not so riveting mystery of characters trying to remember crucial details from their NDEs is stretched out over hundreds of pages. The final solution returns to science, but after what we've been through to get there, warrants no more than a shrug. <br />A interesting twist occurs around page 550, and given the subject matter one cannot help but keep reading, but the end is both predictable and a sad turn into the traditional NDE mysticism that for 750 previous pages the book has been mocking.<br />Willis is a terrific writer -- check out the wonderous Doomsday Book or the less ambitious but terribly charming To Say Nothing of the Dog -- but none of her talents are shown to good effect here.	2002-07-24
US	49866025	R2363WBDB111RH	0805046747	752533128	The Making of a Chef: Mastering Heat at the Culinary Institute of America	Books	3	3	8	N	N	Excellent Ingredients, Half-Baked	This should have been a great read. The topic is facscinating, the 'follow along with the CIA cirriculum' approach perfect in theory, yet the final result is merely lukewarm.<br />Some chapters, like those on the basic skills class and front of the house service, are playful and interesting, but far too many get lost in undermotivated detail and a lack of meaningful context. The text continually goes off on random tangents into classmates' histories or the author's personal concerns. The ongoing, awestruck coverage of the CIA's President is simply goofy, but further damages the author's credibility. <br />The author makes much of his becoming a real cook, but perhaps needed to focus a little more on becoming an accomplished writer. There is much of interest here for anyone interested in professional cooking, but it's disappointingly haphazard -- with a little more planning and organization this book could have really soared.	2002-07-23
US	49866025	R3EPLVIBPF1IX2	0679777482	931852549	Checkmate: Book Six in the Legendary Lymond Chronicles	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Peerless	Keep in mind, no matter how good I tell you this book is, it's better. You'll lose sleep, miss your stop, forget family and friends and then need to tell them all about it. It's why you read fiction.<br />Or at least why I do: to become lost in story, among fictional characters and situations that for the duration of the turning pages are more real than reality, a dream you finally leave richer and wiser --  and better understanding your own world -- then when you first entered.<br />Price of admission to this one is steep -- the five previous Lymond Chronicles are excellent novels all, but tally a dense 2500 pages. What isn't clear until this sixth is how much those serve merely as set-up for its breathtaking conclusion.<br />The emotional distance of the past two volumes is gone, revealed as an authorial ploy to finally bring us closer to Dunnett's peerlessly charismatic and mysterious characters. Here, the swashbuckling and history take a backseat to one of the most compelling gothic love stories in literature. Everything from the previous books pays off spectacularly, leading to a final hundred pages without comparison in suspense, heartbreak, and genuine thrills. <br />Taken as a whole, the six Lymond Chronicles form a wonderously intricate, moving mosaic, steeped in historical storytelling traditions yet completely unique, a complex, shimmering gift to anyone who loves to read.	2002-07-23
US	49866025	R30JXO5GLR1OUD	0375701265	166912833	The Money and the Power: The Making of Las Vegas and Its Hold on America	Books	3	10	12	N	N	The Root of All Evil	The Money and the Power begins as an intriguingly detailed history of Las Vegas, digging deep into mobster mythology to present a \\"true\\" history in a field steeped in mythos. The underlying theme is that the peculiar set of circumstances that allowed legalized gambling in Nevada have allowed the corruption the entire (presumably previously uncorrupt?) country.<br />This is an interesting argument, and at first the authors do a good job of marshalling impressive battalions of detail into a compelling narrative. Soon, however, the prose turns oddly purple, and each chapter end seem culled from gothic melodrama. <br />Readers of James Ellroy will recognize the basic scenario from his American Tabloid/Cold Six Thousand series, but it plays better as hard-boiled fiction than curiously naive history. One can agree with many of the authors' historical points without concuring with their increasingly strident and unsupported conclusions.<br />When the corporations finally take the casinos over from the mob, we're told they are in fact no different from their murderous predecessors. The proof: they routine lobby congress for legislation favorable to legalized gambling, and because the casino business is very profitable, they routinely get what they want. <br />This dastardly turn of events has surely never happened in this country before...<br />The first half of this book can be recommended as an impressively researched and well-written chronicle of Vegas' early days. But the later portions, long on hysteria and short on clear analysis, are tough going.	2002-06-12
US	49866025	REFY7PUNX1RU0	0375756787	693970523	The Rise of Theodore Roosevelt (Modern Library Paperbacks)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Whirlwind Chronicle	Theodore Roosevelt must be a biographer's dream. The youngest President is US history, he embodied a truckload of contradictory characteristics, all of them to the extreme, attacked every problem with protean energy and a learned and sometimes vicious wit, and was thoughtful enough to write everything down for posterity. It's hard to imagine that an uninteresting bio of this man is possible.<br />Morris' book, however, is an exemplary one. Morris has conjured with the traditional, outsize TR elements, creating a massive chronicle borne of years of research that reads like a grand historical novel. Intimate, sympathetic and constantly dramatic, the book not only recreates a remarkably vivid TR, but paints the wide world around with equal panache. From privledged NYC to the wilds of Montana, Harvard Square to San Juan Heights, turn of the century America leaps to sparkling life around this most magnetic of figures.<br />The Rise of Theodore Roosevelt reads like a whirlwind, consistently entertaining and enlightening. To anyone with the slightest interest in the man or the period, it is unmissable.	2002-06-12
US	49866025	R25KVC8MY1K6DV	0440235464	435881091	Lost Girls	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Canadian Gothic	Lost Girls exists at a curious intersection of genres: a Scott Turow courtroom drama twisted about a Martin Amis comic amorality play, a Stephen King ghost story messing with a Thomas Harris psycho thriller. This conjunction of story types is mostly compelling -- to Pyper's credit there are few moments where the disparate elements collide rather than collude.<br />Despite the solid sense of place (Canada certainly an underutilized thriller locale) and dank, gothic atmosphere, the ghost story elements are the least effective (and I'm a big fan of ghosts popping up in genres where the don't belong) because its awfully tough to credit Pyper's amoral, cokefiend, stripclubbing protagonist having such a freakout at a few odds and ends going bump in the night -- and because the book has to decelerate its cocaine-driven prose and pacing to to whip up the requisite dark and stormy lake atmosphere.<br />So after an appallingly funny kick off the book drags a bit in the middle -- stay with it. The story takes an obvious twist I didn't see coming and stays particular and curious all the way to the end. The only caveat for genre-only readers -- despite the thriller drag Pyper's concerns are more those of Turow &amp; Amis than King &amp; Harris -- is a plus for everyone else.	2002-06-12
US	49866025	R1OAFGGXD6Q3RV	0380798360	535649961	Declare	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Return to Form	Declare is a welcome return to form from master fantasist Tim Powers, who after writing some of the most wildly imaginative books in the genre (Anubis Gates, Stress of Her Regard, Last Call) seemed to have lost his storytelling mojo amidst the startlingly boring supernatural mechanisms of Expiration Date and Earthquake Weather.<br />While Declare doesn't recapture the sheer comic joy of Powers' early books, it makes immediately clear that the espionage genre perfectly fits his particular style. The sometimes trying world-weariness that has stained each book since Last Call plays better in LeCarre territory than Southern California, as do the exhaustive details of Powers latest elaborate secret history. <br />At nearly 600 not always riveting pages, Declare would still be ponderous if not for the incisive writing and mordant wit. It may be the most inadvertently portentious novel ever written about magic genies, but the sharply etched characters and settings in the end make this a particular and entertaining read.	2002-06-09
US	49866025	R2ABUCSWV8XHWO	0140288503	189891237	Black Hawk Down: A Story of Modern War	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Riveting Battle Chronicle	Black Hawk Down is an exhaustive and exhausting account of the disastrous end of the 1993 U.N. peacekeeping mission in Mogadishu, Somalia. Providing a concise political context for the mission, the book chronicles, minute by harrowing minute, the desperate attempts to rescue the Ranger and Delta Force soldiers trapped in the city.<br />Bowden does a remarkable job of painting the troops, their commanders, and the situation with precision and clarity, while also providing instructive Somalian viewpoints. If occasionally so over-detailed that it becomes difficult to follow, Black Hawk Down still manages the nearly impossible feat of recreating the chaotic battle as riveting and thought provoking narrative.	2002-06-09
US	49866025	R37CY73KAYHCTL	0345443020	981903971	Perdido Street Station (Bas-Lag)	Books	5	10	14	N	N	Fabulous Nightmares	Not since Clive Barker's Books of Blood and Dan Simmons' original Hyperion has the fantasy genre received a body blow like Perido Street Station. This is a once in a decade, keep the lamp on all night, knock your socks off tome of fabulous nightmares, vividly realized in some of the most visceral and musical prose the genre has ever seen.<br />King Rat, Mieville's first novel, was remarkably well-written but in the end underwhelming, its slim story adding up to less than the sum of its particular settings, its hipper than thou drum & bass affectations distracting from the genuine cleverness of the conceit.<br />Perdido Street Station is another creature entirely -- the mythical, monstrous alterna-London of New Crobuzon so alarmingly tactile and absurdly over-detailed that it seems less a fiction than a place once visited in your darkest dreams, an essential and seething pit of subconscious import.<br />The creation of New Crobuzon and its wildly conflicted and colorful inhabitants would be achievement enough for most books, but no sooner are we introduced to them when Mieville takes off on an unprecented riot of macrabre invention. Like a magician the author reaches into his hat and out comes Mr. Motley, the Torque experiments, the Ambassador of Hell, the Weaver, crisis energy, the handlingers, the Construct Council, they just keep coming, chapter after chapter, and above all the fascinating, terrifying Slake-Moths -- the sexy, scintilating, monster-movie stars of the book.<br />The imaginative achievement of this book is so great, the writing so scarifyingly vivid, the overall affect so wonderously dreamlike, that it seems churlish to complain that down the long 900 page length there isn't much of a story, that the initially intriguing characters vanish behind the garish invention and eventually tiresome action scenes. That the book finally doesn't seem to be about much more than stopping a bunch of monsters.<br />Well, maybe. But what fabulous monsters.<br />Thisis only Mieville's second book. I can't wait to read what he does next.	2002-06-09
US	49866025	R1NP2V57KZ1284	0393307050	680723399	Master and Commander	Books	4	7	7	N	N	First of Many	One begins Master and Commander with some trepidation -- it being the first chapter of an intensely beloved twenty volume series. Fortunately, the opening scenes depicting the first meeting of O'Brians's long running protagonists are funny and engaging. It is only thereafter that the book becomes a challenging read.<br />There is a little in the way of an overarching narrative; Master and Commander serves as more of an introduction to life on a Napoleonic brig, and to Aubrey and Maturin. But the book's real difficulty lies in its absolute immersion in its era. It makes no concession to a modern reader lacking knowledge of the period, the setting, or how to rig a frigate. This makes the book a sometimes tough read -- but is also why it is ultimately so rewarding.<br />One close's Master and Commander with the sense of having spent time with very particular people in a very particular time, looking forward to doing so again in the next volume.	2002-04-21
US	49866025	R1J07WZUTJE8WH	0679777474	745159291	The Ringed Castle: Book Five in the legendary Lymond Chronicles	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Lymond In Russia, Philippa at Court	Volume IV of the Lymond Chronicles shows a marked improvement from the somewhat draggy Pawn In Frankincense, if not quite climbing the storytelling heights of the first three episodes.<br />Ringed Castle spins two riveting tales, Lymond's attempted remaking of Ivan the Terrible's Russia and Philippa's rise into the upper reaches of the English Royal Court. Vivid supporting characters abound: explorer Diccon Chancellor, chess afficiando Tsar Ivan, astrologer John Dee, and Margaret Lennox, Elizabethan femme fatale. The evocation of the Kremlin is gorgeously detailed, as are Lymond &amp; company's adventures in Russia's unforgiving winter and the heartstopping voyage back to England -- Dunnett's uncanny ability to recreate the exotic past with such force you feel yourself there is in full flower. The book's first two thirds are excellent. <br />But as in the previous volume, Ringed Castle starts to feel like work down the backstretch. Dunnett's authorial sleight of hand in hiding much of Lymond's viewpoint until the final pages begins to frustrate in its familiarity, this ruse particulary trying given the ongoing story regarding his mysterious parentage. <br />One hopes for less of this in the final volume...	2002-03-28
US	49866025	ROKQRVE4KZGKP	0500281130	382577134	Who Wrote Shakespeare?	Books	2	10	15	N	N	Fascinating Subject, Dull Treatment	Though a longtime Shakespeare buff, I'm relatively new to the Authorship controversy, and find it fascinating. I've read a couple of Shakespeare biographies without having any idea how little documentation the standard story is based upon.<br />This book, though, should greatly cheer those who wish the whole thing would go away. As introduction to the mystery, its hard to imagine a drier laundry list of evidence and candidates, written without a spark of insight or wit. Apparently the great selling point here is the author's objectivity, but this is taken to such absurd lengths that it starts to feel like a put on.<br />And most damagingly, in his vague weighing of arguments, the author gives no indication of having a personal familiarity with Shakespeare's work -- if he has read and enjoyed the plays in any capacity aside from solving this mystery, he gives no indication of it here.	2002-03-28
US	49866025	R3LJNYHBEMEEE2	0425168956	364550178	The Titian Committee (Art History Mystery)	Books	2	2	5	N	N	An Instance of Authorial Disinterest?	A murder mystery set in Venice, revolving around art history, featuring two immensely appealing sleuths -- what could be bad?<br />Somehow, most everything aside from the two lead characters. Flavia and Johnathan are witty and charming throughout. But Venice never comes across, the mystery lies flat on the page in a serious of increasingly tedious interviews with stick figure supporting characters, and the art history element remains a barely there bit of background color.<br />Pears is a very talented writer, his An Instance of the Fingerpost an ambitious and vastly entertaining historical novel. Is he just no longer interested in these slight mysteries?	2002-03-23
US	49866025	RRNR6KCDO1O1Q	0385503954	977000479	Atonement: A Novel	Books	5	12	14	N	N	Masterpiece	Ian McEwan has sometimes seemed a writer of greater talents than the books he chooses to write allow him to express. His early work, slim, psychologically dense novels of macabre intensity, is powerful and upsetting, but one occasionally wished that he might allow his beautiful writing a wider canvas.<br />Atonement does this in spades -- it is a love story of heartbreaking intensity, rendered in luminous prose, that simultaneously forces the reader to confront how exactly one responds to fictions of &quot;heartbreaking intensity.&quot; Without a hint of ivory tower post-modernism (every bit of this story radiates a devotion to narrative and character), the novel is very much about the nature of fiction. It is as wonderful and powerful a book as I have read in recent memory.<br />Which isn't to say that McEwan has gone soft on us. Immediately upon finishing the novel I hated it, infuriated and disturbed by the final turn of events. It took a couple days of reflection to realize how much richer this made the book, and I've been pondering it ever since.<br />Atonement is a masterpiece, a richly imagined and written fiction that probes confidently into the essence of fiction, rending hearts, drawing tears, and prompting much thought and discussion in the process.	2002-03-23
US	49866025	R1VBKB1O44VHUB	0743411706	901553345	Drachenfels: A Genevieve Novel (Warhammer)	Books	3	5	12	N	N	Good, Gory Fun	Drachenfels, written by Kim Newman under a pseudonym in the late 1980s, is apparently set in some bizarro RPG universe involving long, teutonic-sounding names and plenty of Tolkienian orcs and beasties.<br />As might be expected from Newman in such a context, this is a great goof of a book, simultaneously embracing and spoofing over the top fantasy/horror conventions. One must assume Drachenfels one of the few books set in this universe to be focused upon theater history.<br />Though it lacks the sophistication of the fiction Newman writes under his own name (and this Genevieve has little of the rich inner life she displays in the Anno Dracula books) Drachenfels is quite funny -- particularly in its Orson Wellsian leading man. Its actually the action/pacing elements that disappoint. Newman just doesn't seem to have spent much time on them.<br />But this is good, gory fun if you've a taste for such stuff. And it is interesting to note that back in the 80's, when horror fiction's splatterpunks were bafflingly attempting to build an ideology out of ultraviolent grue, Newman was already making a joke of it.	2002-03-23
US	49866025	RQOG6R8BEN2QJ	0375405445	406271874	Founding Brothers: The Revolutionary Generation	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Good Survey, But Jefferson's Still the Star	Founding Brothers is an enjoyable survey of key events in the establishment of a working Federal government in the years following the American Revolution. Unlike a standard history or biography, this book offers a series of thematically related vignettes.<br />The first few, concerning the Hamilton/Burr duel and George Washington are fun (see Gore Vidal's Burr for a completely antithetical retelling of these events), and the slavery chapter interesting, but it is in the story of Thomas Jefferson and John Adams that this book really shines.<br />As demonstrated at greater length in his earlier American Sphinx, Ellis has a particularly insightful take on Jefferson, and this retelling of the final years of his life is fascinating. While I don't think Ellis' bizarre public behavior in any way invalidates his excellent books, it seems likely that his insight into Jeffersonian paradox may spring from a shared temprament.	2002-03-23
US	49866025	R2ZOTVVIPQFKZH	0345413377	731430286	The Amber Spyglass (His Dark Materials, Book 3)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Stunning Conclusion	While I enjoyed the first two parts of this trilogy, The Golden Compass and The Subtle Knife, they in no way prepared me for the excellence of this concluding volume. Golden Compass is a sturdy and whimsical YA novel, occasionally tedious to an adult. Suble Knife is better; more imaginative, frightening, and tough-minded.<br />The Amber Spyglass, while clearly the work of the same author, represents a huge leap in ambition. Suddenly the odd tale of Lyra and Will is swallowing and transforming great chunks of western theology while racing from one resonant cliffhanger to the next. <br />The book's seriousness of intent is beautifully matched by its playful invention, so it never seems heavy handed, and by the time the myriad armies are clashing for a spectacular war in heaven, Pullman's tale has taken its rightful place in the pantheon of fantasy classics. It's final chapters, wise and heartbreaking, are perfect.<br />Pullman's trilogy has been compared to both Harry Potter and the Narnia books, but it seems to me the better comparison is to Clive Barker's Imajica, another wildly imaginative and intricate reworking of the Bible.	2002-03-02
US	49866025	R1H54VY6VUTYU0	0140280650	800942881	Edge of Glory: The Inside Story of the Quest for Figure Skating's Olympic Gold Medals	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Only Skating the Surface	Edge of Glory is a reasonable, entertaining quick-read account of the run up to the 1998 Olympic Figure Skating events. Starting in early '97, the book follows key US, Canadian, and Russian skaters along the path to Nagano. <br />If you know little of skating and are interested, this book is worth a read, but it goes into very little depth, and much of it is painfully written. It presents no insight into the controversial judging process, and doesn't seem interested in asking questions about how the sport is run, or contextualizing the '98 Olympics in terms of skating history.<br />Author Brennan is apparently a USA Today columnist, and that's exactly how Edge of Glory reads, minus those colorful graphs.	2002-02-20
US	49866025	R143SREYGTXYHO	0553562738	466136665	Doomsday Book	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Laughing at the Black Death	While at first glance Doomsday Book seems assembled from classic science fiction tropes -- time travel plot, eccentric scientists, tech-based mysteries to be solved, brave young protagonist coming up against the cold realities of existence -- author Connie Willis has assembled from these well-worn parts a riveting and surprisingly fresh read. This is one of those rare books that once begun is very difficult to put down.<br />This is partially due to the incisiveness of the writing and the book's seriousness of purpose: this is not a SF book of paradoxes and puzzle-solving, but a harrowing tale of plague in two centuries. It is also due to the vivid and memorable characters populating both time periods.<br />But the most striking and original quality of Doomsday Book is its pitch perfect blend of trauma and comedy. The book opens like an academic screwball comedy and as events darken, the sparkling, laugh out loud wit becomes an integral part of the characters' reaction to tragedy. <br />In a genre not overly reknowned for its sense of humor, Doomsday Book, brutal and funny in equal measure, is a great read.	2002-02-16
US	49866025	R3U25VRSH8SBJH	0553378236	729024433	Daemonomania	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Autumn's Tale	Daemonomania, third installment in the eventual quartet begun in Aegypt and continued in Love and Sleep, covers the autumn of the numinous 1979 John Crowley has been so carefully chronicling since 1985 or so. It's nearly Halloween in Faraway Hills, and we pick up with Pierce Moffat &amp; company, John Dee &amp; Giordano Bruno included, right where we left them.<br />Daemonomania is very much of a piece with its equally allusive and mysterious predecessors. It certainly contains all the strengths and weaknesses of the previous books -- if you loved them, you will love this; if you exited Love &amp; Sleep angry about the lack of narrative progress, well, matters have not greatly improved.<br />But these books are almost a genre to themselves; dense, mythic, intricately detailed and stunningly beautiful, steeped in occult learning and emotional wisdom. Proceeding synchronistically rather than literally to make emotional sense of magic (in every sense of the word), they seem me among the most ambitious and rewarding novels of the past two decades.<br />Reviews below draw comparisons to Eco's Foucalt's Pendulum, but I think the more apt parallel is to a novel I often think my favorite -- Mark Helprin's Winter's Tale. Like Winter's Tale, Crowley's opus defiantly rejects a reasonable &quot;what just happened?/where is this going?&quot; query at every turn, yet renders the question moot with gorgeous, transcendent writing and abundant good humor. Though Crowley's tone is as adult and intellectual as Helprin's is child-like and matter of fact, the books share an exceedingly rare literary magic. <br />Don't worry so much about the plot -- just read.	2002-02-05
US	49866025	R1Q5D0ZD5DRELQ	0060934700	26552478	Smoke and Mirrors: Short Fictions and Illusions	Books	5	3	3	N	N	The Astonishing Mr. Gaiman	Smoke and Mirrors collects 30+ Neil Gaiman stories and poems from the past decade. Gaiman's work is usually categorized as fantasy, and most of these pieces have appeared previously in genre publications, yet the best of them, in their combination of wit, ferocity, and wisdom, seem timeless, transcending not only genre but period.<br />A few pieces are merely funny, the Lovecraft riffs and more self-consciously post-modern bits, yet these are good enough to beg comparison with Kim Newman, the master of the post-modern genre cuisinart tale.<br />Most cut deeper: has there been a better evocation of Los Angeles and its relation to creativy than 'The Goldfish Pool and Other Tales'? A more poignant literary appreciation than 'One Life, Furnished in Early Moorcock'? 'Troll Bridge' casts an old fairy tale into the modern world with haunting results, while 'Snow, Glass, Apples' vividly and viciously upends Snow White in period, putting most such pastiches to shame. The shimmering 'Murder Mysteries' is undoubtedly the finest celestial noir whodunit of the past decade.<br />Yet I think my favorite tale here is 'The Wedding Present,' hidden within the book's introduction. Funny, disturbing, and deeply moving, it is itself a perfect introduction to Gaiman's gorgeous short fiction.	2002-01-19
US	49866025	R1M68L0ZQSE75	0679743685	927498097	God: A Biography	Books	5	40	41	N	N	New Look at the Old Testament	Miles' thoughtful, searching, and sometimes thrilling re-examination of the Old Testament (or more properly, Hebrew Bible or Tanakh) turns on the intriguing premise that we can read the Bible as a novel in which God serves as protagonist. Miles never overplays this notion, keeping one eye on historical interpretations, but uses it to develop a fascinating reading of the familiar text.<br />As with Harold Bloom's Book of J, this book can fascinate merely by challenging conventional english translations: the profusion of puns, irony, and sarcasm in the original Hebrew comes as a shock and a thrill to readers who first learned these stories as children. Miles would be worth reading for this analysis alone. And when he applies his methods to the Book of Job, the result is a radical reinterpretation that finally makes sense of the problematic tale, giving it a moral weight traditonal readings have denied.<br />Miles' conclusions go deeper, demonstrating how in forcing the function of a half dozen pagan deities into a single God, monotheism created a figure contradictory, paradoxical, powerfully creative and self-destructive: like nothing seen before - and in doing so, forged the first literary character of true psychological complexity.<br />In the Tanakh God creates mankind in his own image so that he may have a way to better see himself -- Miles' interpretation shows us man creating the Tanakh, and God, to do precisely the same thing.	2002-01-19
US	49866025	R2EGPZS4G2RAT7	0385413726	244095611	From Beirut to Jerusalem	Books	4	1	3	N	N	Excellent Eyewitness Account	From Beirut to Jerusalem provides a concise and vivid primer on the Israeli-Palestinian conflict in the form of Friedman's personal experience in his New York Times postings to both cities. Whatever one may think of his personal opinions, Friedman has spent many years on the ground talking to individuals on both sides -- his take therefore deserves more respect and patience than that of the endless armchair ideologues always ready to lend a rant.<br />That said, the Beirut section of the book is the stronger, because of its richness of fascinating detail in describing the city's unique society and fall. Once in Jerusalem there is more pontification, though much of it is learned and interesting.<br />Though the book wanders a bit down the back stretch, it's hard to imagine a better one book introduction to the 1980s Middle East than this.	2002-01-10
US	49866025	R2ITTQ7N4UYJJV	0679777466	25336446	Pawn in Frankincense: Book Four in the Legendary Lymond Chronicles	Books	4	3	5	N	N	Not Lymond's Best	Volume IV in the Lymond Chronicles sees a slight drop in quality from the splendid first three volumes, but Dunnett and Lymond on an off day still run circles about the competition. Pawn In Frankincense is slower and grimmer than its predecessors, long, gorgeous descriptions of Constantinople and environs displacing incisive characterization and genius plotting. Many of these passages are so lovely they beg to be read aloud, but eventually they serve to distance us from our heroes and villains.<br />Lymond himself is at a further remove than usual here, Gabriel possesses but a shadow of his spectacular Volume III malevolence, and events grow to seem unfortunately repetitive. <br />Nonetheless, this is a voyage worth taking, given the company of beloved characters, an intense and wrenching climax, and a very surprising proposal of marriage. If this is not the best in this series, it is still a superior read to most anything else in the genre.	2002-01-08
US	49866025	R3P9FKUQMQESV	074343627X	241269653	Dreamcatcher	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Mr. King's Wild Ride	It's unfair to call Dreamcatcher a return to form for Stephen King. His last few books, particularly Bag of Bones and Hearts in Atlantis, have been pretty great. But Dreamcatcher plays to his particular strengths (a minimalist setting, near telephatic rapport with his characters) while downplaying his more annoying mannerisms (endless pop culture name dropping, literal deus ex machina). The end result is an incredibly disgusting, breathlessly exciting, and suprisingly moving combination of horror, sci-fi, action, and pathos that recalls his glory days of a decade or more ago.<br />The shocks start early and never let up, King's imagination firing on overdrive to create two intriguing mysteries, the nature of his alien Grays and the powerful telepathic link between his heroes, that will be revealed in a single hellish night. One could argue that the book runs a little long, but we don't read King for concision -- here he provides the same exhilarating, cinematic experience with which he first made his name.	2002-01-08
US	49866025	RVHZD47BCI95Y	0380973650	337033298	American Gods	Books	5	19	22	N	N	Original Fantasy	American Gods is the rarest of creatures: a literate, witty, mordant, and moving contemporary fantasy novel. Yes, its pace is studied rather than frantic, its tone cool and thoughtful rather than histrionic, but the patient reader will be amply rewarded by Gaiman's carefully plotted and beautifully written tale of Old World dieties struggling for survival and relevance in 21st century America.<br />Gaiman has taken the essence of his gemlike short stories and blown it up into a genuine epic. Much more so than the entertaining but somewhat sparse Neverwhere, American Gods uses the novel's length and format to build power, even as its structure allows Gaiman to deploy a handful of strking short tales within it.<br />Anyone who has enjoyed Gaiman's previous work, or the contemporary fantasy of Clive Barker, Tim Powers, Roger Zelazny, or Kim Newman, is likely to enjoy this excellent book.	2002-01-05
US	49866025	RI8L97NQWZEDF	0451194861	511631376	Wizard and Glass: Dark Tower IV	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Post Holocaust Sci-Fi Western Romance	Wizard and Glass, Episode IV in King's genuinely bizarre Dark Tower series, spends very little time in the series' ongoing narrative. Instead, to its great benefit, this chapter is almost entirely flashback to Gunslinger Roland's tragic past.<br />Though the previous Dark Tower books have suffered from King's limitations in world-building fantasy (he always seems at his best with the most familiar of locales, at his worst and most mannered creating them from scratch) the minute Roland's tale begins, King's narrative magic kicks in and we are deeply involved in a tale of touching teen romance, affecting comaraderie, and thrilling Louis L'Amour style action. That this story has not an original bone in its lengthy body is beside the point -- from these familiar materials King has alchemized a roaring good read...<br />Which is diminished only by the dreadful back-in-the-present coda where all of the previous evocations of The Wizard of Oz become numbingly obvious, and the Dark Tower series returns to its goofily mannered previous course. Oh, well.	2002-01-05
US	49866025	R112KF22DLVYWZ	0393321223	444586736	Tolstoy: A Biography	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Vibrant and Funny Literary Biography	Among it's more traditional strengths, Wilson's life of Tolstoy must be added to the exceedingly select list of laugh out loud biographies of Russian novelists. Throughout the book's considerable length and passionate examinations of Tolstoy's writing and the Russian history from which they grew, are superb jokes, asides, and sarcasm - in no way denigrating the tempestuous creator of War and Peace, but keeping a keen-eyed perspective on the many paradoxical facets of his long life.<br />Wilson's account is suffused with a deeply felt love of Tolstoy's writings, perfectly balanced by an appreciation for his absurdities. If you have read and loved War and Peace, Anna Karenina, or any of Tolstoy's works, this biography yields a rich and absorbing account of the life and history from which they sprung.	2001-12-16
US	49866025	R23871D6N3HL0P	0671039784	448621040	Face-Time	Books	2	3	4	N	N	Neither black nor white nor much fun	This sure sounded good. Joe Klein made an excellent novel out of similar material. Tarloff begins with an interesting premise and keeps his characters in the intriguing gray area of believable human behavior, their hats neither clearly white nor black.<br />So why is the novel not much fun, and eventually interminable, despite its brief length?  Perhaps because it doesn't read like a novel, but rather like a prose outline for one: we are told everything, shown little. In theory, the story presented is interesting, but theory is all we get, and eventually it all gets kind of whiny and annoying. And although the book remains well-balanced, it almost never, ever funny.<br />Without humor, or anything resembling a satiric edge, we're left with an earnest sexual/political soap opera in which not much happens. This book feels as if it contains a good story struggling to break free, but it never quite manages to do so.	2001-12-11
US	49866025	R2PXKYTZTTHQBD	0071381872	399426086	i-mode Crash Course	Books	5	1	3	N	N	Clear, Succint, Invaluable	This remarkably concise tutorial is genuinely useful. The writing is clear, the explanations understandable, the analysis impressive. A technical author who actually knows how to write. Highly recommended if you're considering i-mode.	2001-12-04
US	49866025	R6AYLOI2533SR	0375701044	306877497	Personal History	Books	4	3	5	N	N	Tricky Balance of Personal and Historical	Katharine Graham's lengthy authobiography is for the most part engaging and readable, yet somehow I came away from its 600+ pages feeling like I was missing some essential part of her story. There is an odd distance to this book, even in its moments of extreme candor, that left me feeling I was hearing only part of the tale.<br />This may be due to the necessary balancing of the personal and political in such a book: frequently we are pulled out of a major event, such as the Cuban Missile Crisis, to attend to her daughter's dress or dance, never to return.<br />This is of course one of the book's major themes: Graham as a woman in a man's professional world, slowly awakening to the particular challenges of her situation, and that of professional women of her generation. It thus seems churlish to complain about the memoir's somewhat schizophrenic nature.<br />Yet in the final analysis I still feel that the book, fascinating as much of it is, is holding back some crucial element that might make greater sense of the events described and Graham's journey from doting wife to powerhouse publisher less theoretical.	2001-12-04
US	49866025	R2CI0BQEYHG1X	0520222032	369427384	The Unknown Matisse: A Life of Henri Matisse, Volume 1: The Early Years, 1869-1908	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Matisse's Colors	This is a genuinely inspiring biography, clearly written and deeply felt, powerfully communicating the revolutionary ideas of what painting could and should be that drove, and were driven by, Henri Matisse. Spurling vividly describes Matisse's struggles to balance his need to paint with financial reality and his society's disdain, often using the artist's own letters and recollections to depict his growing obsession with color and impatience with representation.<br />Although I eagerly await the second volume, the true measure of Spurling's success is my anticipation in revisiting Matisse's paintings -- my enjoyment of his work has been increased immeasurably by reading this book.	2001-11-29
US	49866025	R3U7TSX5GZFD8Y	0679777458	540747022	The Disorderly Knights: Book Three in the legendary Lymond Chronicles	Books	5	19	19	N	N	As Much Fun As You Can Have Reading	The Disorderly Knights, 3rd in the Lymond Chronicles, must be one of the most thrilling adventure stories ever written. From the initial Borderland skirmishes to the intrigue on Malta, from the cryptic dueling at St. Mary's to the Edinburgh climax, the thunderbolt narrative never ceases to twist, turn, and surprise. Lymond himself seems almost to transcend the existing literature -- a genuinely original romantic hero.<br />I'd argue that Lymond Chronicles are actually underrated, as no one I know seems to have heard of them. Having at this point read the first three, its hard to think of anything with which to compare them. The dazzling, larger than life characters, the gleaming wit and razor-sharp dialogue, the breathless action and labyrinthian plotting all combine to create nearly perfect novels: rollercoaster, thinking person's adventure tales.<br />If the first volume has the advantage of surprise and the second is distinguished by its French Court setting and intrigue, I'd make the (arguable) argument that this third is even better, having the advantage of a more serpentine plot, genuinely shocking final quarter revelations, and a villain of spectacular stature.<br />If you love to read, dig into these masterpieces at earliest opportunity -- but start with the first, Game of Kings. They're confusing enough as it is...	2001-11-15
US	49866025	R3PLX63OEJ3M4O	0312978707	97032133	Afterburn: A Novel	Books	2	5	5	N	N	Sex and Violence	Colin Harrison is a talented writer. Bodies Electric and particularly Manhattan Nocturne are smart, sharp thrillers, spiky and resonant.<br />Much of Afterburn is well-written, yet somehow it is kind of a dreadful book. The much-discussed-in-this-space sex and violence weren't the problems for me -- I thought the sex scenes were fun and the violence genuinely harrowing -- hey, it's a thriller. In a better conceived story they would have helped, not hurt, the narrative.<br />But when you turn the final page, there's little else to remember: the &quot;climax&quot; basically consists of endless pages of description of a random number scheme, the book ends with a thud, and you realize there's been precious little story involved, even from the outset.<br />In some misguided quest for realism or spasm of self-indulgence, the author seems to have forgotten that he's writing a pulp thriller. How do we know this? He's got pulp characters, pulp situations, pulp dialogue. Pulp sex and violence. Good ones, at that. But he has no story to give them shape and resonance, just a long, long, set-up and then a depressingly random series of events that conspire against (almost) everyone. And every bit of it, from Vietnam to prison to Manhattan to the above-mentioned number scheme, eventually becomes alarmingly over-detailed. Many self-conscious Dickens references don't make for a Dickens novel.<br />Yes, you can abandon story in literary fiction, but in pulp, no matter how well-wrought, without it all you have left is, well, sex and violence.	2001-11-15
US	49866025	R1DYJZCA5Z35SJ	0060182970	552239081	Coldheart Canyon: A Hollywood Ghost Story	Books	2	6	10	N	N	What Happened?	Clive Barker is one of the most accomplished storytellers working today, arguably our premiere fantasist...but you'd never know it from reading this book. The Books of Blood, Weaveworld, Imajica, and Sacrament, just to name a few, are literate, thrilling and strikingly original page turners.<br />Coldheart Canyon, inexplicably, is none of these things. If someone had sent me a blinded manuscript I might have guessed it a poor knock-off of Barker, not the man himself. As another reviewer notes below, it's more like a hollow &quot;greatest hits&quot; of Barker's mannerisms.<br />Unlike almost all of Barker's other work, there's little passion in this book. The problem is not that the characters are unsympathetic, but that they're boring and unconvincing, one-note stick figures who's adventures completely fail to earn our interest.<br />Only once or twice, in the more over the top bits in the Devil's Country, does the real Barker fleetingly appear. For a few pages we feel that unique mix of wonder, terror, and fascination, but it evaporates all too soon.<br />I hope that this is simply an honest mis-step, and not a calcuated effort to appeal to a wider, more mainstream audience, as the overwrought, Emperor's New Clothes ad campaigns for the book indicate. <br />For Barker fans, definitely check it out -- you'll draw your own conclusions. But for curious first-timers I'd recommend starting with almost any other of his marvelous works.	2001-11-06
US	49866025	R2CTWUQQXUC1EH	0071372083	892810688	Optical Networking Crash Course	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Invaluable	This is the most useful tech book I've bought all year. For some reason publishers almost never publish books like this, but it actually does take apart optical networking and explain how things work for an intelligent non-engineer. The organization makes sense and the writing is clear and literate, and even funny, sometimes. If you've got a doctorate you probably don't need this, but for the rest of us its invaluable.	2001-08-26
