US	49876233	RWVSA8IL9HIEI	0304366420	720330892	The Fall of Carthage: The Punic Wars 265-146BC (Cassell Military Paperbacks)	Books	4	16	16	N	N	Worth reading	Adrian Goldsworthy provides an entertaining and accessible account of the Punic Wars, which those with no classical education should find an interesting read. Goldsworthy himself points out the fact that the British education system would have rendered this account unnecessary fifty years ago, but the decline of Latin as a school subject has left a generation (at least) unfamiliar with this long conflict.  <br /> <br />Goldsworthy attempts to identify the facts of the battles as distinct from the conjecture, and is at pains to point out the limits of knowledge today (even with the benefits of archaeology to help lift some of the uncertainty). He also makes it clear that we must regard the sources as being tainted from the victor's perspective - for of course no Punic accounts of the conflicts survive. He uses general knowledge of the period to explain the context in which the wars were taking place, and how the changes in technology led to changes in the way in which war was being carried out. <br /> <br />This well-rounded account is supplemented with maps of the several of the battles, facilitating comprehension. However, there are no diagrams or pictures of other aspects of the time (a reproduction of a Trireme, for instance would have been a useful supplement to the lengthy descriptions of the text). This omission aside, the book is a good general read, going beyond a simple recitation of events, which serves to put the wars in an appropriate context.	2004-09-11
US	49876233	R21I93HY0V0OEH	0333730585	288605984	The Chancellors: A History of the Leaders of the British Exchequer, 1886-1947	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A good set of scholarly essays	The Chancellors provides a series of biographical essays on the British Chancellors at the end of the 19th and during the first half of the 20th centuries. Jenkins has chosen not to treat each Chancellor in the same way,  given differences in the careers of each man. Thus there is no attempt to offer a biography of Churchill in a brief essay, but the analysis of Simon is expanded to include more than just his tenure of 11 Downing Street. The essays do make cross references to one another, but can essentially be treated as stand alone works.<br /><br />Jenkins' style of biography was, of course, honed over the years, and though these essays may not live quite to the standard of his longer works (\\"Gladstone\\", for instance) they remain enjoyable. There is a certain amount of contemporary analogy in some of the pieces, which may date the book (and certainly did not tend to appear in Jenkins' other works), but this in no way detracts from an objective and scholarly set of essays.	2004-09-11
US	49876233	R13B589GZ7IHI3	0815716885	225101507	America Unbound: The Bush Revolution in Foreign Policy	Books	4	2	5	N	N	Interesting account, relatively objective	This is a thoughtful and generally objective assessment of the impact of Bush Jr on the foreign policy of the United States. The central thesis that runs through the book is that Bush Jr has had a fairly consistent set of foreign policy objectives that were modified by the events of 11 September 2001 - but modified within the existing guidelines. More broadly, the authors see Bush Jr's objectives as in the foreign arena as drawing from some of the purposefulness evident in domestic policy in his first eight months in office (when, of course, foreign policy was subordinate to domestic aims, but still followed an \\"America first\\" rather than a multilateral approach).<br />The analysis concludes with warnings about the dangers of Bush Jr's approach, and implies that the administration has not learned the lessons it should have taken away from fighting an enemy that is not a state in the traditional sense. The criticism of the lack of planning for the post Afghan and post Iraq conflict environments is an area of particular emphasis - with the undertone that, in a conflict where \\"nation-building\\" is essential if military objectives are to be met long term, multilateralism is critical to the success of operations. Hints of \\"imperial overstretch\\" creep into the debate here.<br />The book sets out the background and provides supporting evidence extremely well. For a dual authored piece, Daalder and Lindsay have managed to come up with an extremely readable book, written in a comfortably informal style with (one suspects) the odd appearance of a rather dry humour coming in. The authors are former Clinton staffers, but objectivity is not particularly damaged. The bias, it appears to me, is a strong support for the position of the now rather isolated Secretary of State, Colin Powell. There is no \\"knee-jerk\\" analysis depicting Bush Jr as a buffoon, or as a slave to sinister neo-con forces in the administration, and the authors skilfully point out that to characterise Bush Jr insuch a way is to misunderstand his Presidency. It would have been nice if there was slightly more examination of the US's perception by other countries under the new Bush Doctrine - for instance, if the US sees itself as a \\"liberator\\" of Iraq (which it must as part of the Bush Doctrine), it must see all attacks on itself in Iraq as the work of Baathists, Al-Qaeda and so on (as they can be the only opponents of \\"liberation\\"). However, if Iraqis do not share the same world view as Bush Jr, these attacks are potentially legitimised (Iraq's experience with Western incursions into its territory have rarely categorised the incoming authority as a provider of \\"liberty\\" or freedom, as the British experiences in the inter-war period demonstrate only too clearly). Bush Jr's failure to pursue multilateral support because of the absolute belief in the righteousness of the Bush Doctrine could be a major problem, if other areas of the world hold different but still legitimate interpretations of liberty. This is an area which leads out from Daalder and Lindsay's work, and would probably benefit from further study.	2004-03-03
US	49876233	R2SYXL1YFN3Q9W	0743203607	852433677	Stiff Upper Lip, Jeeves	Books	5	21	21	N	N	Classic Wodehouse giving classic Wooster	\\"Stiff Upper Lip, Jeeves\\" is an example of Wodehouse at his best - to paraphrase Evelyn Waugh, cramming three original similes onto every page. The book continues the saga of the Wooster / Bassett / Fink-Nottle \\"love triangle\\", and Wodehouse as ever handles the problem of filling in new readers with aplomb (though it is undoubtedly better to have read the preceding volumes - after all, why wouldn't you want to read the preceding volumes?). Bertie is once again at Totleigh Towers where \\"only man is vile\\", desperately trying to avoid imprisonment, dismemberment at the hands of Spode (now under the alias of Lord Sidcup) while failing spectacularly to act as raisonneur to the Madeleine / Gussie relationship -which now appears to be floundering on the insurmountable obstacle of vegetarianism. Bertie gets some good one-liners, and the dialogue is excellent as always. Though writen post-war, after what many consider the Wodehouse golden-age of the 1930s, this remains an example of Wodehouse at his best.	2004-01-20
US	49876233	R3KYBDHBF3KBYC	0007161778	605759713	The Secret History of the South Sea Bubble: The World's First Great Financial Scandal	Books	4	13	13	N	N	An entertaining account	Balen's account of the \\"South Sea Bubble\\" is an entertaining account rather than an exhaustive historical examination of the events surrounding the South Sea Companies rise and fall in the early 18th century. This is not to say that the book lacks historical analysis and insight - but it does not qualify for the sobriquet of a \\"learned\\" text. <br />After a few opening pages of purple prose (through which the reader should plough through, for there is better to come) Balen sets out to paint the circumstances surrounding the \\"South Sea Bubble\\". He composes a good picture of the fevered speculation of the period, and in particular is very strong in drawing the parallels to the French experiment with paper money under Law. The view of England being drawn into a speculative frenzy in part because of the need to beat France in commerce is a neat interpretation - and Balen's researches amongst the diplomatic archives bolster the view that the bubble grew out of competition with France.<br />A reader familiar with analysis of the period will come across the usual clichés - the company formed for \\"an undertaking of Great Advantage but no-one to know what it is\\" makes its obligatory appearance, for instance. Alongside these crowd-pleasers, Balen also offers some interesting details of the rise of the company, and the politics surrounding it. In so short a volume, the background setting is necessarily fairly cursory. Nevertheless, the political intrigue (with Walpole cast as the Machiavelli of his day) is well written. <br />Overall, this text serves as an excellent, entertaining introduction to the bubble. It provides some nice analysis of the bubble in an international context. Heading each chapter is a quote from an apposite article on the internet bubble - but without further elaboration - which struck me as a nice if none too subtle commentary on the ability of human nature to forget bitter experience in the face of wanton greed. For a really serious historian of the period, there is little to be gained from this work, perhaps - but for a generalist, it serves its purpose admirably and gives an nice overview of the phenomena.	2004-01-18
US	49876233	R3QG46E9282RSG	1582343497	288461545	Schott's Original Miscellany	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Dangerously compelling	&quot;Schott's Originally Miscellany&quot; is packed full of pointless trivia - why would one ever need to know the names of different icebergs in the normal course of events, or how Burmese kings died? This is, of course, what makes this so compelling to read. The danger - and it is a big danger - is that you bore friends and family to distraction with remarks preceded by &quot;did you know...&quot; as you dip into this volume. The threat to conversation and family sanity notwithstanding, this is a &quot;must-have&quot; book.	2003-12-23
US	49876233	R3BV5KEEE755Q3	0767908171	997649583	A Short History of Nearly Everything	Books	4	0	2	N	N	A Renaissance book	Bryson's wry observations as a travel writer have long been favourite reading for me - and &quot;A Short History of Nearly Everything&quot; continues to present his observations on life in a dryly-humorous way. The change in subject matter, from travel to &quot;life, the universe and everything&quot; is a bit of a shock to the reader, but the topic is approached well. <br />In many ways &quot;A Short History of Nearly Everything&quot; is the epitome of a Renaissance book. There is no detailed examination of a single theme, but instead a wide-ranging exploration of scientific topics, covering their history and development. Rather than creating a specialised book, Bryson has adopted the eclectic approach of a modern day equivalent of the &quot;gentleman scientist&quot; of four centuries ago. Bryson attempts to put complex concepts across in a way that the lay reader will understand - and indeed, as Bryson himself admits, the author is no scientific expert. <br />The result is a book that is readily accessible, with further reading referenced for those whose interest in specific topics has been piqued. This book serves as an ideal introduction to science for those who (like Bryson) never took that much away from their school days. The humour of the writing style makes it a worthwhile book for those of catholic reading tastes who enjoy history.	2003-12-23
US	49876233	R2629YLJTRDQX1	1573229865	234989381	The Dream of Scipio	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Intelligent and thought provoking	The central conflict at the heart of \\"The Dream of Scipio\\" is whether a civilisation should be defended with force, or whether it can absorb its enemies and convert them to its mores without in turn being converted to \\"barbarism\\" by the conquerors. Pears selects a common region (centred around Avignon) and three distinct historical periods to explore this concept. The three stories are linked by historic documents passed surviving over the generations, and by a common issue of Jewish persecution in Europe.<br />Initially the juxtaposition of the three stories seems a little awkward - as the reader is moved back and forth across fifteen centuries, switching between the three strands of the narrative in the course of a very few pages. Unlike \\"An Instance of the Fingerpost\\" this is not compartmentalised into distinct stories in separate sections. However, it is this deliberate use of a disjointed narrative that forces the reader to break out of historical complacency. Reading of the events of the fifth century, when civilisation is \\"saved\\" through conquest, it seems a perfectly rational course of action to save culture for posterity through converting the conqueror. Comparing this, within a few pages, with the Nazi occupation of France in the last century, and historical detachment is brought up against direct comparisons with more recent reality - can acquiesence and conversion really work? <br />The thread of anti-Jewish pogroms also runs through the story, along with other religious persecutions. This emphasises the horrific consequences of failing to maintain \\"civilised\\" standards, even if this is perceived as a temporary expediency.<br />Examining a single event from different vantage points was, of course, what made \\"An Instance of the Fingerpost\\" so successful story. That device is used here to equal success, but it is a single concept examined indirectly from different vantage points in time. It works extremely well, and - though not a book to attempt on a hangover - makes for compelling reading.	2003-12-23
US	49876233	RX0AR5F0GWUTE	157322202X	234989381	The Dream of Scipio	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Intelligent and thought provoking	The central conflict at the heart of \\"The Dream of Scipio\\" is whether a civilisation should be defended with force, or whether it can absorb its enemies and convert them to its mores without in turn being converted to \\"barbarism\\" by the conquerors. Pears selects a common region (centred around Avignon) and three distinct historical periods to explore this concept. The three stories are linked by historic documents passed surviving over the generations, and by a common issue of Jewish persecution in Europe.<br />Initially the juxtaposition of the three stories seems a little awkward - as the reader is moved back and forth across fifteen centuries, switching between the three strands of the narrative in the course of a very few pages. Unlike \\"An Instance of the Fingerpost\\" this is not compartmentalised into distinct stories in separate sections. However, it is this deliberate use of a disjointed narrative that forces the reader to break out of historical complacency. Reading of the events of the fifth century, when civilisation is \\"saved\\" through conquest, it seems a perfectly rational course of action to save culture for posterity through converting the conqueror. Comparing this, within a few pages, with the Nazi occupation of France in the last century, and historical detachment is brought up against direct comparisons with more recent reality - can acquiesence and conversion really work? <br />The thread of anti-Jewish pogroms also runs through the story, along with other religious persecutions. This emphasises the horrific consequences of failing to maintain \\"civilised\\" standards, even if this is perceived as a temporary expediency.<br />Examining a single event from different vantage points was, of course, what made \\"An Instance of the Fingerpost\\" so successful story. That device is used here to equal success, but it is a single concept examined indirectly from different vantage points in time. It works extremely well, and - though not a book to attempt on a hangover - makes for compelling reading.	2003-12-23
US	49876233	R1BDBTP3NDI2KG	1573229865	234989381	The Dream of Scipio	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Intelligent and thought provoking	The central conflict at the heart of \\"The Dream of Scipio\\" is whether a civilisation should be defended with force, or whether it can absorb its enemies and convert them to its mores without in turn being converted to \\"barbarism\\" by the conquerors. Pears selects a common region (centred around Avignon) and three distinct historical periods to explore this concept. The three stories are linked by historic documents passed surviving over the generations, and by a common issue of Jewish persecution in Europe. <br />Initially the juxtaposition of the three stories seems a little awkward - as the reader is moved back and forth across fifteen centuries, switching between the three strands of the narrative in the course of a very few pages. Unlike \\"An Instance of the Fingerpost\\" this is not compartmentalised into distinct stories in separate sections. However, it is this deliberate use of a disjointed narrative that forces the reader to break out of historical complacency. Reading of the events of the fifth century, when civilisation is \\"saved\\" through conquest, it seems a perfectly rational course of action to save culture for posterity through converting the conqueror. Comparing this, within a few pages, with the Nazi occupation of France in the last century, and historical detachment is brought up against direct comparisons with more recent reality - can acquiescence and conversion really work? <br />The thread of anti-Jewish pogroms also runs through the story, along with other religious persecutions. This emphasises the horrific consequences of failing to maintain \\"civilised\\" standards, even if this is perceived as a temporary expediency. <br />Examining a single event from different vantage points was, of course, what made \\"An Instance of the Fingerpost\\" so successful story. That device is used here to equal success, but it is a single concept examined indirectly from different vantage points in time. It works extremely well, and - though not a book to attempt on a hangover - makes for compelling reading.	2003-12-23
US	49876233	R3AV6JNMHAYYSP	0195077385	782889208	A Financial History of Western Europe	Books	5	13	14	N	N	An essential reference guide	Kindleberger's work on financial history is designed as an undergraduate guide, but such is the wealth of detail and information that it serves as a useful reference tome long after the undergraduate work is completed. Kindleberger takes the reader step by step through the financial issues of the European economy as it developed from feudal to capitalist society. The explanations of the gold versus silver standard debate (bi-metalism) is particularly helpful and clear, given the complexity of the issue. The charting of the relative developments of the UK and Continental financial systems, and the advantages that they gave the British in the nineteenth century, are also well written. <br />A reader looking for a wealth of data is likely to be disappointed. Figures are provided, but there are other books that will give reams of numbers for the economic historian (several of which are cited by Kindleberger - the references of this book alone are worth buying it for). <br />Overall, this is widely and rightly regarded as a valuable contribution to the field of economic history.	2003-12-22
US	49876233	R2P6SBOUCR9I21	1585674788	463434658	Psmith in the City	Books	5	4	5	N	N	An important part of the Wodehouse canon	&quot;Psmith in the City&quot; marks something of a transition piece for Wodehouse. Here, two of his principle &quot;School&quot; characters are taken away from the school environment and put into the real world. Psmith is elevated to the principle character quite clearly - a trend which continues in &quot;Psmith, journalist&quot;, and of course is entirely dominant in the concluding &quot;Leave it to Psmith&quot;, where Mike is relegated to the background. <br />There is also an element of the autobiographical in this work, for Wodehouse spent his post school days in much the same position as Mike finds himself - working in a city job for which he had little aptitude and did not like. Dulwich College, Wodehouse's school, also makes a cameo appearance. <br />The character of Psmith (based on a real person, unusually for Wodehouse) lends himself well to Wodehouse's skill at dialogue. Psmith's unique character traits are generally revealed in his conversation, and Wodehouse makes the most of this - certainly more than he was able to in the earlier school settings for Mike and Psmith. The dialogue does not, perhaps, soar to the heights it achieves in &quot;Leave it to Psmith&quot;, but this is a distinctly earlier piece of writing. Indeed, the reader is occasionally brought up with a jolt to just how early in the twentieth century this is, with some of the settings and phrasings.<br />Overall this is a very enjoyable book, and interesting because of the transition role it plays in shifting from the more serious &quot;School&quot; series to the more frivolous work for which Wodehouse is more remembered. The autobiographical aspect is also of interest, and though the historical reminders may shock a little, they are a reminder of how long Wodehouse was writing.	2003-12-22
US	49876233	R2NWUUB5XRTCE7	0714843083	372056066	Red-Color News Soldier	Books	4	11	11	N	N	A shocking look at a remarkable period	Although the photographs are the main focus of this book, the accompanying text is also illuminating as an individual's account of his experiences of the Cultural Revolution. The text has, of course, been written with the benefit of hindsight - and one gets a sense of retrospective self-justification coming in. The passion that the period inspired amongst the younger generation is also evident, however.<br />The photographs are, of course, contemporary accounts of the living through that period, and consequently have the power to shock significantly. The &quot;struggle session&quot; photographs of senior party leaders undergoing &quot;self-criticism&quot; are particularly horrific. The concluding photographs of a &quot;victor&quot; of the Cultural Revolution on her way to her execution after the restoration of a more normal society also have a big impact - though curiously there is a sense of the pathetic about the woman that Li captures. <br />The photography merits a 5 star rating, the text probably a three. The images are a valuable insight into the strength of emotion in that remarkable period.	2003-12-22
US	49876233	R2I8MYXFB0P1L0	1573229865	234989381	The Dream of Scipio	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Intelligent and thought provoking	The central conflict at the heart of \\"The Dream of Scipio\\" is whether a civilisation should be defended with force, or whether it can absorb its enemies and convert them to its mores without in turn being converted to \\"barbarism\\" by the conquerors. Pears selects a common region (centred around Avignon) and three distinct historical periods to explore this concept. The three stories are linked by historic documents passed surviving over the generations, and by a common issue of Jewish persecution in Europe.<br />Initially the juxtaposition of the three stories seems a little awkward - as the reader is moved back and forth across fifteen centuries, switching between the three strands of the narrative in the course of a very few pages. Unlike \\"An Instance of the Fingerpost\\" this is not compartmentalised into distinct stories in separate sections. However, it is this deliberate use of a disjointed narrative that forces the reader to break out of historical complacency. Reading of the events of the fifth century, when civilisation is \\"saved\\" through conquest, it seems a perfectly rational course of action to save culture for posterity through converting the conqueror. Comparing this, within a few pages, with the Nazi occupation of France in the last century, and historical detachment is brought up against direct comparisons with more recent reality - can acquiesence and conversion really work? <br />The thread of anti-Jewish pogroms also runs through the story, along with other religious persecutions. This emphasises the horrific consequences of failing to maintain \\"civilised\\" standards, even if this is perceived as a temporary expediency.<br />Examining a single event from different vantage points was, of course, what made \\"An Instance of the Fingerpost\\" so successful story. That device is used here to equal success, but it is a single concept examined indirectly from different vantage points in time. It works extremely well, and - though not a book to attempt on a hangover - makes for compelling reading.	2003-12-22
US	49876233	R3HYMNCOYAJWA1	1585674788	463434658	Psmith in the City	Books	5	11	11	N	N	A transition book	\\"Psmith in the City\\" marks something of a transition piece for Wodehouse. Here, two of his principle \\"School\\" characters are taken away from the school environment and put into the real world. Psmith is elevated to the principle character quite clearly - a trend which continues in \\"Psmith, journalist\\", and of course is entirely dominant in the concluding \\"Leave it to Psmith\\", where Mike is relegated to the background. <br />There is also an element of the autobiographical in this work, for Wodehouse spent his post school days in much the same position as Mike finds himself - working in a city job for which he had little aptitude and did not like. Dulwich College, Wodehouse's school, also makes a cameo appearance. <br />The character of Psmith (based on a real person, unusually for Wodehouse) lends himself well to Wodehouse's skill at dialogue. Psmith's unique character traits are generally revealed in his conversation, and Wodehouse makes the most of this - certainly more than he was able to in the earlier school settings for Mike and Psmith. The dialogue does not, perhaps, soar to the heights it achieves in \\"Leave it to Psmith\\", but this is a distinctly earlier piece of writing. Indeed, the reader is occasionally brought up with a jolt to just how early in the twentieth century this is, with some of the settings and phrasings.<br />Overall this is a very enjoyable book, and interesting because of the transition role it plays in shifting from the more serious \\"School\\" series to the more frivolous work for which Wodehouse is more remembered. The autobiographical aspect is also of interest, and though the historical reminders may shock a little, they are a reminder of how long Wodehouse was writing.	2003-12-22
US	49876233	R2T11PVIMC3TMG	0679640851	414218752	Inventing Japan, 1853-1964 (Modern Library Chronicles)	Books	5	23	27	N	N	A good introduction for the general reader	Buruma sets out with the ambitious task of summarising a century of Japanese history - and a turbulent century at that - in less than 150 pages. Covering the Meiji restoration, the militarism of the 1930s, war, defeat and reconstruction could (and for many authors has) take volumes, but Buruma manages his challenge extremely well. <br />This is not necessarily a book for a Japan expert - in so short a work, necessarily the discussion about the topics raised is fairly cursory. Even major issues like the involvement of the Showa emperor in pursuing the war are necessarily brief - though Buruma's opinion does come through fairly strongly on this topic. Facts are not comprehensively sourced, either - pitched as a &quot;general reader&quot; on Japanese history, Buruma clearly did not want the flow of the story to be interrupted. However, there is a good appendix on suggested further reading. Buruma also has a talent for highlighting key facts in a new context, and in doing so triggering a response from even the more experienced reader. <br />&quot;Inventing Japan&quot; makes a good job of dispelling the &quot;uniqueness&quot; myths that surround the country (promoted by both Japan's supporters and protagonists). Japan is, of course, unique - in the same way that France or Serbia is unique. It is not, as the militarists of the 1930s would have us believe, unique in a divine sense. This is something modern day nationalists and anti-Japan protectionists on the two sides of the Pacific could do well to reflect on. Perry did not &quot;open up&quot; an entirely isolated community, but instead visited a country that was already cognoscent with affairs in Europe and America. The Shinto rituals of the 1930s were not (all) hallowed traditions stretching back through the millennia, but were at least in part created to fit the purposes of the government of the day.<br />Overall Buruma gives an excellent précis of the development of Japan in a concise and well-written manner. This is a superb introduction for a general reader, but it is not something that the more informed reader should overlook.	2003-12-22
US	49876233	R2K9QWJRD664AI	1582343586	378018122	Hey Nostradamus!: A Novel (Coupland, Douglas)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A strong story, in Coupland's inimitable style	Coupland has once again produced a strong story, with an element of the surreal creeping in. Whereas &quot;All Families are Psychotic&quot; had a number of surreal strands that rendered the required the reader to suspend their normal perspective, the worrying aspect of &quot;Hey Nostradamus!&quot; is that the principle surreal element is a school shooting that is, in fact, all too plausible. One aspect of the shooting is recounted from a victim's perspective (and from the perspective of immediately after the event), whereas the other story strands are taken from the vantage of several years after the event. The chain reactions from this are elegantly woven together - the husband of the victim who can not come to terms with the event, his relationship to his father and how that develops as a consequence of the tragedy, how his family interacts with his father. As with most of Coupland's later works, this story evolves through the different perspectives, rather than follows a rigid plot and time line. <br />As either an introduction to those who have not read Coupland before, of for established fans, this is a volume that is well worth reading.	2003-12-22
US	49876233	R2RMRYMS54MLNO	158567432X	56595883	Leave it to Psmith (Wodehouse, P. G. Collector's Wodehouse.)	Books	5	17	17	N	N	The best of the Psmith series	&quot;Leave it to Psmith&quot; concludes the evolution of the Psmith character, from Wodehouse's earliest style of writing with the &quot;Schools&quot; genre, to a comic character whose dialogue keeps the reader entertained throughout. This story sees Psmith enter into Blandings Castle, and though Lord Emsworth is not the dominant character he later becomes, flashes of brilliance are visible in his appearances (and in those of Lady Constance, who plays an important role in this book). <br />&quot;Leave it to Psmith&quot; is packed full of witty dialogue, readily suited to Psmith's character, and the traditional Wodehouse farce for the plot (misunderstandings, a stolen necklace, and so forth). The ending is predictable, of course, but this is hardly the point. It is the use of language that makes this such an enjoyable tale. Wodehouse connoisseurs all have their own favourite phrases, or particular sections of books that strike them as humorous from the prolific collection of Wodehouse's works. Suffice to say, several of my personal favourite sections appear in this book - Psmith at the employment agency, or describing his career as a fishmonger spring to mind. Those who enjoy the Blandings or Jeeves and Wooster series would do well to read this book.	2003-12-22
US	49876233	R175Y5Y0OYMFRL	0719556910	574301447	How the English Made the Alps	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A good read	&quot;How the English Made the Alps&quot; pretty much achieves exactly what the title suggests. The book provides an excellent chronological account of how English visitors started by exploring and climbing in the Alps, and then went on through &quot;health tourism&quot; and the pursuit of winter sports to develop the region commercially. <br />Ring has clearly done pretty exhaustive research into the topic, particularly on the conquests of various mountain peaks. He conveys the initial scientific endeavour that spurred climbers on, and also manages to communicate the eccentricity of pursuing alpine &quot;conquest&quot; once the scientific rationale had disappeared. <br />Given the title, there is a strong Anglo-bias to the writing which perhaps underplays some of the contributions from other countries - foreign climbers are seen generally in the light of competitors and foils for English advances. Again, with the constraints of the title, there is little of the early history of the region in the volume. These are minor quibbles, however, in what is overall a very good account. It is a shame that Fleming's &quot;Killing Dragons&quot; was published so close to this - you wait years for a decent account of the development of the Alps, and then two come along at once. There is enough difference between the two, however, that readers will benefit from reading both.	2003-12-22
US	49876233	R2NMM64R8JSP0M	0881321273	409891717	Currencies and Politics in the United States, Germany, and Japan (Institute for International Economics)	Books	3	2	4	N	N	Historical economics, a little disjointed	Henning gives a comprehensive account of the foreign exchange markets in the 1970s and 1980s, covering in depth the developments of the international financial system as it came to terms with the fragmentation of Bretton Woods. As a reference work to refresh the memory on developments (particularly surrounding the Plaza and Louvre periods) it is a useful account. <br />Aside from the dated nature of the book (analysis ends basically with Clinton's accession to the presidency) there are some other problems. Analysing the US, Germany and Japan in distinct sections means that there is a rather disjointed approach to the work - to get a coherent account of international co-operation in the mid 1980s requires some skipping back and forth in the text, for instance. In addition, the analysis of policy and politics (whatever one thinks of the author's conclusions) comes across more as an afterthought to the chronology. <br />The detailed accounts of policy making in the 1980s makes this a useful reference book to those studying currency markets, but it should not be thought of as particularly strong when it comes to analytics.	2003-12-19
US	49876233	R32OYANIZ9BXG	0944428428	170320379	The Complete Diving Guide: The Caribbean (Vol. 1) Dominica, Martinique, St. Lucia, St Vincent & The Grenadines, Grenada, Tobago, Barbados	Books	3	2	3	N	N	A bit of a let down	Earlier dive guides I have used have come from the Globetrotter series - who do not have a guide for Barbados, which is what I was looking for. Coming to the &quot;Complete Diving Guide&quot; after the high standards of Globetrotter is something of a disappointment. There is nothing wrong with the book in terms of the content it is providing - it gives information on the sites, some (though by no means all) dive schools, and a little background on the islands. However, the writing style is very narrative - think &quot;what I did on my diving holiday this summer&quot; type essays. The presentation is also a bit dated. It is not a bad guide by any means, but if Globetrotter do get around to publishing on the area, it is almost certain to be a better bet.	2003-12-19
US	49876233	R1AQMYY2L6GP9O	0091746396	942427757	Yours Plum (Letters of Wodehouse series)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	A good selection of private letters	This collection of Wodehouse letters adds a great deal more than his autobiographical works (even though there is a degree of overlap), because of course these letters were not written for public consumption. The letter covers a full range of issues, and span a considerable period of Wodehouse's life. There are several tantalising references to the \\"Camp Book\\", covering the period of Wodehouse's internment in Germany after France was invaded - the book, of course, was never published. The letters also give insights into Wodehouse's approach to writing, and a surprising degree of stress over his plots. Dialogue, rather than plot, has always struck me as Wodehouse's forte, but he apparently spent a lot of effort in crafting plot lines.<br />Frances Donaldson has done a good job of selecting and editing the letters - her personal knowledge of the Wodehouse family was no doubt a useful asset. The decision to categorise the letters by subject rather than in chronologicial order does cause the reader to make a few leaps in time, and this does detract from someone looking to read the book cover to cover. For someone looking to dip into the book occasionally - rather as if it were a selection of short stories - this does not present so much of a problem. Introducing a time line, or a comprehensive index would have been a help, but these are relatively minor criticisms. The appendices, including things like a review of one of Wodehouse's novels, are valuable adjuncts to the letters. <br />Overall this is a judiciously selected sample of Wodehouse's correspondence, and fans of Wodehouse's fiction should certainly add this to their collection.	2003-12-18
US	49876233	R1TT9454JRHMEN	0679428895	451458080	Pompeii: A Novel	Books	3	2	8	N	N	A slipping from past high standards	Pompeii does not quite live up to the standards of Robert Harris's previous work. Perhaps as a consequence of the story's era, Harris spends a lot more time in scene setting. Day to day routine needed little elaboration in Enigma, nor really in Fatherland, given that the settings of those stories were relatively close to contemporary life. Much of this historical scenery is interesting, and Harris's detailed research does come through with a commanding grasp of the facts. The price the reader pays is that it also clutters up some of the character development. <br />Where history and action combine (executing a slave by feeding him to the eels, for instance) the writing achieves and perhaps even exceeds the class and pace of some of Harris's earlier work. Parts of the text drag, however, as the need to explain context competes with the need for the story to move forwards. The corruption plot comes through a little clumsily at times, as well. <br />Overall this is by no means a bad book - for holiday reading it is great. It is just not quite the compelling page-turner Enigma was.	2003-12-17
US	49876233	R18B8ZG59D8IFX	0262083019	192754127	Corporate Financing and Governance in Japan: The Road to the Future	Books	3	6	9	N	N	Japanese corporate finance	Hoshi and Kashyap provide an interesting history of the post war corporate finance, with relevant information from the pre-war period that sets the tone. Their analysis includes comprehensive and illustrative data with sources on various aspects of the development of Japan's corporate finance arrangements. Although their exposition of the decline of the Keiretsu system is relatively detailed, it is this section that lets the book down. The role of capital market reforms on the small company-large company relationship in the Keiretsu families is glossed over, yet this surely has to be examined in more detail given the damage this wrought on small businesses and the subsequent contribution of this damage to the non-performing loan problems of the banking system. The chapters detailing the problems of the banking system also seem rather cursory given the scale of the crisis.<br />These weaknesses notwithstanding, the book provides a useful reference to the topic, and covers the background of Japan's corporate finance development with some helpful data insights.	2003-12-17
US	49876233	RP0FLMCZMV8I9	0199248907	488614767	Distribution in Japan	Books	3	1	1	N	N	A useful elaboration of the distribution process	The traditional stereotype of a &quot;Mom and Pop&quot; store continues to pervade generalist analysis of the Japanese retail sector. This book provides a welcome insight into the mechanics of distribution, as structural change is forced on the sector by external pressure - and by the changing demands of a younger generation whose values have metamorphasised away from the standards of their parents. Some of the retail systems (for example auto distribution) are shown to be more sophisticated and less inefficient than trade protectionist caricatures would have international observers believe. Inevitably, this is a book that is likely to date fairly rapidly given the changes pervading Japan's corporate economy and general society. Nonetheless, it is a useful snapshot of what was happening to an important sector in the midst of powerful forces for change.	2003-12-17
US	49876233	R38Z0YJCR076TM	0257660267	628737729	Love Among the Chickens	Books	4	12	13	N	N	An early example of the author's style	The original version of &quot;Love among the chickens&quot; was substantially revised by Wodehouse at the start of the 1920s, and it is the revised volume that has finally emerged from its long period out of print. The central character of Ukridge (remarkably, married by this stage) offers Wodehouse the ideal combination of farce and dialogue that has served him so well in the past. As ever, the plot is incidental to the overall enjoyment of the book. <br />The fact that Wodehouse revised the work after his comic style had emerged (moving away from the schoolboy tales of his early years) does come through on occasions. Every once in a while a piece of dialogue or a phrase will jar slightly - noticeable only because of the generally smooth text surrounding it. It does not damage the enjoyment of the book, but it does remind the reader of how accomplished Wodehouse became in the post war era by highlighting the evolution of his style.	2003-12-17
US	49876233	R3JJX1L96ST96G	1586480308	539913658	Governor Reagan: His Rise To Power	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Detailed, sympathetic but not uncritical account	Cannon began reporting on Reagan as a journalist in California, and the depth of his knowledge about the President is significant. This book expands on the earlier section of his presidential biography &quot;Ronald Reagan: The Role of a Lifetime&quot; and focuses mainly on Reagan's governorship in California and the interlude before he became President. It is an interesting insight into Reagan's early experience in the political process, and ably characterises how Reagan sought to run an administration. The insights into Reagan's (generally positive) environmental record whilst in Sacramento are also particularly illuminating for those only familiar with his subsequent legacy as President - and Cannon offers some slightly scary insight into how this change in policy approach may have been wrought by a casual delegation approach from Reagan himself. The writing is generally sympathetic to Reagan without being overtly biased in a political sense. The book provides a helpful background to understanding the Reagan Presidency and several of the key players around Reagan who came to Washington from California.	2003-12-17
US	49876233	R3RDLB1HDG8W53	0742632482	615490615	The Little Nugget (Collected Works of P.G. Wodehouse)	Books	4	15	16	N	N	Bot a Wooster style story, but an enjoyable read	The Little Nugget was Agatha Christie's favourite Wodehouse - a choice Wodehouse himself was offended by (as he felt she was not keeping up to date with his latest works). The book contains traces of the &quot;school&quot; genre of writing (e.g &quot;The Pothunters&quot;) with its school and setting and gangster involvement. There is also a romantic storyline - unlike the humorous romances of the Wodehouse's later works (the various struggles of the later Blandings books, or the Wooster romances) this has a slightly more serious tone to it - a reminder that Wodehouse wrote for Mills and Boon in his time. The humour, though undoubtedly something different from the polished Jeeves and Wooster dialogue is still very good, and the character of the &quot;little Nugget&quot; is well captured in all his repulsiveness. Indeed his reappearance in &quot;Picadilly Jim&quot; builds on this story - and shows Wodehouses recognition that this was a good comic character that could be developed further. Overall, those whose previous experience of Wodehouse has been Wooster or Lord Emsworth may find themselves a little shocked by the different tone here, but it is a good story with occasional flashes of inspiration in the dialogue. I would not agree with Agatha	2003-12-17
US	49876233	R3TNYBG5K6CB73	0471389455	658114205	Manias, Panics, and Crashes: A History of Financial Crises (Wiley Investment Classics)	Books	5	6	8	N	N	An elegant and informed look at markets	Kindelberger's work is a classic study of speculative bubbles and their consequences, and should be read as such. From the first, this is a book that aims to seperate market moves from genuine crises - important in an age were there is a tendancy for the media to seek to dramatise the mundane in order to winn a BAFTA. The definitions provide a framework for examining the development of an irrational interlude in financial markets.<br />Kindelberger's analysis is not, therefore, a classic &quot;history&quot; primer for the curious - there is no spoonfeeding of facts, for that is not what the book sets out to present. Instead, this is an elegant and informed look at what how financial markets have departed from the course theoretical &quot;rational&quot; behaviour suggests that they should have taken. For all that, it is still an accessible text to those who take a casual interest in financial markets.	2003-12-17
US	49876233	RQFV3OGEM2ISC	0002155435	54113080	Mr. Balfour's Poodle: Peers Versus People	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A valuable account	Writing with the advantage of post-war perspective, Jenkins gives an insightful account of the battles surrounding the Parliament Act and the move towards the supremacy of the House of Commons. The work has aged well over the decades, with Jenkin's analysis as fresh as when he wrote it. Indeed, a mid-20th century perspective, particular from one of Jenkin's intellectual stature, is helpful - far enough from the events themselves to be impartial, without being caught up in the latest changes and machinations with regard to the upper house.<br />Jenkins sets out the stragies and motivations of the different sides clearly, and in as impartial a manner as can be expected (given that a modern perspective is highly unlikely to sympathise with those peers seeking to preserve the status quo). There is little \\"demonising\\" of the conservative factions, and the book is an informed and intelligent insight into a critical turning point for the British constitution.	2003-12-17
US	49876233	RBIX9VDXUIDL8	0385495757	519897924	Desert Queen: The Extraordinary Life of Gertrude Bell: Adventurer, Adviser to Kings, Ally of Lawrence of Arabia	Books	1	179	209	N	N	A truly awful piece of writing	Gertrude Bell was, by all accounts, a woman who relished a challenge. She broke through the barriers of her era and environment, defying social norms and codes in order to achieve what even today is a remarkable list of accomplishments. It is therefore disheartening that a woman who overcame considerable barriers in life should be defeated posthumously by the obstacle of Ms Wallach's truly awful prose style.<br />The opening pages of &quot;Desert Queen&quot; seem to be written as a parody of early twentieth century pulp romantic fiction. As the reader struggles bravely on through the overuse of saccharine adjectives, the sickening realisation comes that this is not a parody - this is what Ms Wallach thinks appropriate for a biography of a woman of Gertrude Bell's character. The opening lines of the chapter on Baghdad cause the reader to recoil in horror. There is an earlier phrase about conversations bouncing around silk lined drawing rooms that leaves one gasping in disbelief. <br />The prose is quite bad enough to be going on with, but in addition there is more than a suspicion that historical accuracy has been dispensed with. The flowery descriptions of meetings and events leave the reader asking &quot;how do we know that?&quot; Was Gertrude Bell really meeting a local sheik with &quot;eyes flashing like jewels&quot; - and if from where do we get this fascinating insight? If from Gertrude Bell's own diary or letters, it would offer a fascinating glimpse into her self-perception and character. Ms Wallach does not want to burden the reader with sources or footnotes, and one is left with the distinct impression that this sort of comment is little more than an insight into Ms Wallach's own imagination. <br />Whole areas of Gertrude Bell's character are just ignored, or acknowledged in the most desultory fashion. This pioneering woman was against female suffrage - but no genuine examination or discussion of that is thought relevant. She was the only female political officer of the Indian Army in the First World War - but no attempt has been made to examine the attitudes of Whitehall to this - and no official sources appear to have been used to detail what the reaction was at home. Any competent biographer would have spent time and effort detailing these facets of her character - the reader of &quot;Desert Queen&quot; will be disappointed if they are seeking this sort of analysis.<br />Tantalisingly, and particularly towards the end of the book, we get glimpses of how fascinating Gertrude Bell's story is. When Gertrude Bell's own words are quoted at length, or at enough length to keep Ms Wallach's prose in check, the reader begins to understand that in the hands of a qualified biographer (and expert in the Middle East region) this is a life that could offer significant insights into society and politics in the twilight of the British Empire. <br />Ms Wallach's lightweight style of writing is ill suited to anything other than &quot;celebrity&quot; biographies. There is no comparison with, say, the works of Robert Blake or Roy Jenkins. Both Gertrude Bell and the English language deserve far, far better than Ms Wallach is capable of.	2003-12-17
