US	49887650	R1DTF9ACWA3613	0066210615	700423156	The Viceroy's Daughters: The Lives of the Curzon Sisters	Books	4	19	20	N	N	Fabulous!	I loved this book. It makes no pretenses toward being other than what it is: a biography of several shallow aristocrats who played constant games of \\"musical beds,\\" left the rearing of their children to nannies, fought with one another constantly, and didn't understand why they were so miserable. Rather than wasting our time with political machinations (God knows the Curzon sisters didn't; they supported various parties based on who the menfolk supported, even when the menfolk were Oswald Mosely, and then didn't understand why their Jewish friends stopped talking to them), the author describes their clothes and the tangled personal relationships and bizarre dependencies that made up their lives. Seriously, it's fantastic. <br />This is the sort of book that you have to read in the right sort of company so that you can shout out updates: \\"Okay, now she's sleeping with her brother-in-law! Wait... now it's the other one! Oooh, now the family's telling her to do it!... Okay, now her husband's following the prince of Wales around like a puppy! Now the other one's sleeping with that pianist guy!... My God, he slept with her stepmother? What is up with these people?\\"<br />A lot of sex, a lot of scandal... Basically, it's like a really long Vogue article. If that's your cup of tea, you'll love this.	2003-06-27
US	49887650	R14N11U29ICX0P	0786703865	949803823	Green for Danger	Books	5	14	14	N	N	Fascinating mystery	Christianna Brand is one of the lesser-known lights of Golden Age detective fiction, which is a shame, because she has enough talent to be far better-known. This mystery, set at a military hospital during World War II, is one of my favorites. Brand knew her stuff when it came to military hospitals, and the details really serve to ground the plot; she knows exactly how the wards would have been laid out, how much medicine the patients would have been given, who did what, who went where... and, of course, there were the usual vagaries of the war: bombing, cramped shelters, black-out. The mystery itself is interesting. I think the story wouldn't have been half so powerful if she had taken a more minimalist approach, which is yet another reason to love her-- every detail matters.	2003-06-27
US	49887650	R9WXDAODXZISL	0198234120	773918187	Age, Marriage, and Politics in Fifteenth-Century Ragusa (Oxford Studies in Social and Cultural Anthropology)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Interesting historical work	I'm not a historian, but I love reading books on obscure bits of history. Generally they disappoint: either they're so popularized that I find myself unable to trust a word that they say (lack of footnotes generally makes it worse!) or so academic that they're impossible to understand (at least without having read another book on the subject first-- or several dozen). &quot;Age, Marriage, and Politics&quot; did not disappoint.<br />Rheubottom's primary background appears to be in anthropology, and it shows. He uses case studies; he looks at dowries; he makes genealogical charts using triangles and circles for boys and girls. He explains thoroughly enough that even I can understand the ideas, and he seems to be aiming the book at people who (like me) know nothing about Ragusa and very little about how similar city-states might have worked, since he goes into detail about various social structures rather than saying, say, &quot;the Ragusan court system differed from the Venetian only on the following points.&quot; He provides all the little details that make me so happy when I'm reading a history book. (Yes, I do this for fun.)<br />Obviously, at this price you're not going to be buying it for fun. Look for it in the library when you've exhausted the potential of the fiction section. If you're anything like me you'll enjoy it.	2003-01-28
US	49887650	R3BSMS9CXLHB7O	0425158624	151274310	Silent Melody	Books	2	29	37	N	N	More silence would have been appreciated	I've read some of Mary Balogh's other books and enjoyed them a great deal. Unfortunately, as previous reviewers have mentioned, the \\"action\\" parts of this book felt like a formula Balogh had pasted into place. Evil villain? Check. Incomprehensible motivation for said villain? Check. An assortment of characters with seemingly no role but to keep hero and heroine apart for five precious minutes during the book who are given disproportionate \\"screen time\\"? Check. <br />More bothersome, from my point of view, was Emily's deafness. Emily is able to lip-read easily, even in ball situations, where the lighting was not so good and people were probably not looking straight at her every time she spoke. And her lip-reading was pretty much flawless, which is something that doesn't happen, even now, even under ideal situations (good lighting, speaker facing listener and enunciating clearly). As my ASL teacher put it, look into a mirror and say, \\"Pleased to meet you.\\" Then say, \\"Elephant juice.\\" Can you tell the difference simply by sight? Emily's lip-reading ability was taken beyond the realm of plausibility, and the same is true for most of her communications with others. It's as though the deafness became a plot hindrance most of the time, so what the hell, we're just going to pretend that it isn't really that much of a problem. I just had difficulty suspending my disbelief there-- or my annoyance, since Balogh did choose to write a deaf heroine. It's a shame, because I'd been hoping to find a really interesting element of what it was like to be deaf in regency England... but I came away with the sense that not much research had been done, either on what it was like to be deaf then OR what it's like to be deaf now. This sort of sloppiness irritates me. <br />I did read the first book in this \\"grouping,\\" and enjoyed it, and understand how \\"Silent Melody\\" grew from that. Still, Emily was a deaf heroine, and the way Balogh dealt with her deafness struck me as sloppy. She's written better books. The hook for this one was a hindrance rather than a help to the book's quality. Read something else she's written first.	2002-10-14
US	49887650	R38AIYD3HXF12I	0140096213	952583652	A Criminal Comedy (Penguin Crime Mystery)	Books	1	7	9	N	N	Mediocre. Very, very mediocre	A rather indifferent mystery. There really aren't any likeable characters, and it takes forever for one of them to die. It was the revelation of whodunnit that irritated me extremely. To go into further detail would be to ruin the plot. It... well, while not unplausible, it was inadequately telegraphed for my taste. <br />This story was all wrong in the details; the numerous \\"news clippings\\" sounded nothing like actual articles. And furthermore, rather than ending at the point which would have provided a certain degree of spookiness (guilty... or are they? and will they ever be brought to justice?), the author ends the whole thing with another stupid news article that makes everything Painfully Crystal Clear.<br />In short: don't waste your time.	2002-10-14
US	49887650	R3ANT4399F3Q8E	0140113827	990366844	Murder at the Gardner : A Novel of Suspense: A Homer Kelly Mystery (Penguin Crime Monthly)	Books	2	3	5	N	N	Predictable mystery	I picked this book up because I love both Boston and the Garder Museum. The author has clearly done her research. Unfortunately, it shows a bit too much. I read it three days after I visited the Gardner; I found myself wishing I'd read it before, so that I could bring it along to use as a guidebook. It sometimes felt as though the exposition on how Wonderful and Fabulous the Gardner Museum is (which it is) and where the Vermeer is placed (which I'm sure is correct) got in the way of the plot. <br />I should also say that I'm not a big fan of mystery novels where the killer is revealed early on. This was not a tightly-wound psychological mystery, so I REALLY wasn't a fan of the fact that the reader was more or less told who the killer was long, LONG before the conclusion of the book. It was a procedural. And I was thinking, \\"Okay, I know who did it, get to the point already.\\"<br />That was a general problem with a lot of the plot-- things were a little bit too telegraphed for my taste, although I think that's a matter of personal preference. We're told who is in love with who, and we're given minor characters that are more stereotypes than anything else. When their stereotypical qualities start having a bearing on the plot, it irritates me, since these qualities are those that are not possessed by normal people out in the real world. Similarly, a bequest figures heavily in the book, and a big part of it is that no one knows what the bequest really will be. I-- let's just say I found myself wondering about whether or not the denoument of that plotline would ever have been played out in an actual museum. <br />On the other hand, I was really really anxious by one of the climactic moments of the book, which has more to do with the Gardner than the mystery, although a little of both. I was biting-my-nails anxious, even though I knew that the scene didn't really happen in the Real Life History of the Gardner. I love that museum, I really do. And certainly the book provides a nice overview of the place and its history and its eccentric but well-intentioned founder.	2002-10-14
US	49887650	R6FLDAT4V8GGE	0345352548	94214553	Sweet Death, Kind Death (A Kate Fansler Novel)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Interesting but not very mysterious	This is the first Amanda Cross mystery I've read. I did enjoy it, but I must agree with the previous reviewer, who said that it was a good book but not much of a whodunit. The mystery really takes a back seat to literary discussions and character analyses. (And the ending, while fun, emerges out of the blue.) I also found that, especially towards the middle and end of the book, the characters all tended to speak in a mannered way that I found slightly improbable-- as though they're all declaiming instead of just talking.<br />I picked the book up because it dealt with a women's college; as a student at a women's college, I'm always curious to see how they're treated in literature. I found Cross' view interesting, although nothing like my own.	2001-10-08
US	49887650	R2WBHPYEMGC67A	0446602930	41833772	Fool's War	Books	4	10	10	N	N	Fascinating and absorbing science-fiction read	I thought Sarah Zettel did a fantastic job with this book. The characters were interesting and compelling, and one really felt for them. (One reason why some of the unhappier portions of the ending nearly made me cry.) The characters were unconventional but realistic, something that is all too rare nowadays. They were all sympathetic and their actions made sense.<br />Where I think she had some difficulty is with the more &quot;panoramic&quot; parts of the book. The biggest problem I had was with the end, which was very exciting and action-packed, but sort of... out-of-place. It felt rushed, as though she wasn't as interested in it as in the things that had gone on earlier. In consequence, some of the characterization towards the end really suffered... The gloating supervillain, weird motivations, murder and mayhem that wasn't very well thought out. <br />The hidden purpose of the Fool's Guild was very interesting, but I just didn't buy that for SO LONG they had taken this &quot;wait, watch, don't do anything&quot; view of working towards their purpose. It's hard to say more without destroying some of the surprises, which were some of the most fun parts of the book-- you never knew where she was going, yet she gave you enough clues that after the secret was revealed, you could go back and say, &quot;Oh, I get it.&quot; (The one exception was Dobbs. Did anyone else guess her hidden secret fairly quickly?)<br />All-in-all, a very interesting book, with some thought-provoking ideas and a complex and fascinating future universe.	2001-10-08
US	49887650	R3RI7QKRY4N165	5723302418	385631397	Imperator Aleksandr III (Russian Edition)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	The definitive biography of Alexander III	Alexander III is a tsar who has disappeared in history, probably because he reigned for too short a time to make much of a difference in Russian history. He ruled in between two of Russia's better known monarchs: his father was Alexander II, who freed the serfs, while his son was Nicholas II, the last tsar. Alexander III has been ill-served in biography; the sole real English-language biography of him was written in the 1890s and contains (unsurprisingly) numerous errors. Bokhanov's &quot;Imperator Aleksandr III&quot; fills all the gaps (although it is, alas, in Russian). Bokhanov quotes from tons and tons of letters, including Alexander's letters, those of his siblings, those of his wife, those of his children, and those of his parents, and even includes a section on Alexander's short-lived, more liberal older brother (whose fiancee he inherited). Bokhanov's scholarship and use of primary sources is, as always, fantastic. (See &quot;The Romanovs: Love, Power, and Tragedy&quot; in English for an example.) Lots and lots of beautiful family photos, too. A fascinating book for anyone interested in Alexander, his charming, iron-willed wife, Maria Fyodorovna, the intertwined world of late nineteenth-century royalty, or the early childhood of Nicholas II.	2001-04-30
US	49887650	R31RNC35NZBK4L	0345434676	224574716	Pegasus in Space	Books	3	1	3	N	N	Disappointing because previous standard was so high	I loved &quot;Pegasus in Flight,&quot; liked some of &quot;To Ride Pegasus,&quot; and liked &quot;Pegasus in Space&quot; simply because it offered conclusions to the stories begun in &quot;Pegasus in Flight.&quot; Unfortunately, that's about ALL it did. There was far too much going on. It seems like McCaffrey decided to wind up every single plotline begun or even THOUGHT of beginning in the previous books. We get to see not only everyone married, but the number, names, and birth-order of their children. The plot moves too fast. Rebellion? Bam. Illness? Bam. Evil bad guys doing their thing again? Bam. One problem after the other, all solved with lightning-quick speed. It felt more like a plot outline than a book sometimes. Also, the new characters didn't feel very well fleshed-out. I didn't really care about any of them. That said, it WAS nice to have another outing with these characters. I do agree that more Tirla would have been nice, although that's one of my main complaints: too much time spent with the new characters (who were dull), not enough with the old (except Peter). <br />One-sentence synopsis: Good if you've read and liked the other Pegasus books and want to find out what happens to the characters, bad as a beginner to the series.	2001-04-30
US	49887650	R31QHADTBDO7UB	5300007226	852093705	Gibelʹ t͡s︡arskoĭ semʹi (Taĭny istorii. XX v) (Russian Edition)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	The Sokolov Report	Don't let the lurid cover fool you: the first volume, at least (there are two), of &quot;Gibel' Tsarskoi sem'i&quot; is both interesting and valuable. Volume 1 is the famous (or infamous) Sokolov Report, written in the months following the deaths of Nicholas II and his family. Nikolai Sokolov painstakingly compiled his evidence, speaking with dozens of witnesses and visiting the crime scene. Volume 1 also contains lots of documents relating to their deaths, many of which became available only recently. I found Volume 2 less useful: it contains the memoirs of M. K. Diterikhs and the last two chapters of Pierre Gilliard's book on the imperial family. Diterikhs' work is marred by his anti-semitism (he changes the names of some of the participants in the murder so that they sound &quot;more Jewish&quot;) which is both overt and disturbing. And my first language is English, so I find the English translation of Gilliard's book (which was originally published in French) more useful than this Russian translation of the last two chapters. So my summary: get it for the first volume, ignore the second.	2000-12-28
US	49887650	R2LZQJETITLBWK	0671720759	593817987	A Bad Spell In Yurt	Books	5	25	27	N	N	Thoroughly enjoyable light fantasy	This book is not as lighthearted as the title might indicate, but it still  has a great deal of charm. It is a light, engaging read, but there is  nothing light about the subject matter. Kudos to Brittain for being able to  pull it off! The depth of the characters and view really surprised me--  very rarely are fantasy books, especially light fantasy books, written like  &quot;real life,&quot; where sometimes there ARE no easy answers or  ready-made villains. The characters are very real people, and their  relationships and reactions to each other are complicated and not always  easy to define (just like real life). I don't want to scare anyone off by  this &quot;heavy&quot; review because it's not a &quot;heavy&quot; book at  all. I found &quot;A Bad Spell in Yurt&quot; to be an excellent light  fantasy that can be appreciated on a deeper level (if one is so inclined).  It is worth noting that my twelve-year-old brother liked it as much as I  did, in his case without doing all the complicated analysis.	2000-09-17
US	49887650	RMENXPZZQ8U4W	1855850788	572801964	Queen Victoria's Grandchildren	Books	4	13	13	N	N	Lovely photographic tribute to Victoria's grandchildren	&quot;Queen Victoria's Grandchildren&quot; is not particularly long-- about 130 pages-- but it is large-format (about 8 1/2 by 11 inches). It is  a photographic tribute to Queen Victoria's grandchildren. It has been  divided into sections, one section for each of the grandchildren. These  vary in length from one page to five pages. Except for two grandchildren  who died in very young infancy, at least one photograph-- usually more-- is  included with each section. I've read a lot of books on Queen Victoria and  her various offspring, and many of the photos are new even to me. There is  a slight bias, of course, to the more-photographed grandchildren. (A lot of  photographs of King George V, Queen Marie of Rumania, and Empress Alexandra  of Russia, etc.) But two or three pictures are included of all of them,  including the ever-elusive ones who died in childhood (except for the two  babies). I especially enjoyed finding a picture of the ever-elusive Prince  Frederick (Frittie) of Hesse.<br />The text serves more as a synopsis of the  person's life to provide background for the pictures; there are no real  analyses or insights. The writing is usually very simplistic, but get this  book for the pictures.	2000-09-10
US	49887650	R8142YXDL2HRX	0674399757	313698697	1: History of Private Life, Volume I: From Pagan Rome to Byzantium	Books	5	13	16	N	N	An excellent view of ancient life in western Europe	The back of the book says that the &quot;History of Private Life&quot;  series is &quot;written and edited by leading scholars yet intended for any  reader who wonders how people lived and behaved in earlier times&quot;. In  this, the first volume has definitely succeeded. It is divided into five  parts: The Roman Empire, Late Antiquity, Private Life and Domestic  Architecture in Roman Africa, The Early Middle Ages in the West, and  Byzantium in the Tenth and Eleventh Centuries. Each of the five sections is  divided into chapters, which are then each divided into portions, each  portion with its own heading, for easy identification. So, for example,  under &quot;The Roman Empire&quot; is a chapter entitled  &quot;Marriage,&quot; which is divided into sections headed &quot;Criteria  for Marriage,&quot; &quot;The Transformation of Marriage,&quot;  &quot;Marriage as a Duty,&quot; &quot;The Harmonious Union,&quot;  etc.<br /><br />I thoroughly enjoyed most of the sections, although &quot;The  Roman Empire&quot; was a bit too long-more than 200 pages, twice as much as  any of the other sections. Often it sounded like the author was repeating  himself.<br /><br />I didn't find &quot;Private Life and Domestic Architecture in  Roman Africa&quot; very interesting, probably because the emphasis was on  the Domestic Architecture part. Since the section was based mostly on  architectural excavations, it had little information on &quot;private  life.&quot; Most of the section was overviews of the plans of houses and  cities in Roman Africa. Since minor details, like furniture arrangements,  often do not survive to be discovered by archeological expeditions, there  was little information on such minor details.<br /><br />The other four parts  were much more interesting. The book contains a wealth of information on  private life: the way people thought, the way they acted, the way they  lived. It is extremely readable. I am not a scholar of the period, but I  found the book very easy and enjoyable to read. This simpleness in writing  means that a lot of scholarly arguments and debates are left out. The whole  text is sort of streamlined. Generally this is a good thing, but sometimes  it makes one suspicious of some of the author's statements. On page 224,  for example, one illustration's caption reads, &quot;Tomb of a physician,  3rd-4th century. He is not, as was once thought, reading a medical treatise  but rather his classics...&quot; Looking at the illustration, the scrolls the  physician is reading are blank, with no identification on or around them.  How could one decide what the man was reading? The author may have had a  reason for making this statement, but without the reason given, I found  myself thinking, &quot;For heaven's sake, the man could be reading  ANYthing.&quot;  However, if nothing else, this forces the reader to  realize how subjective interpretations of history often are. The editors of  this book are to be commended for having included enough information that  the reader can make their OWN subjective judgements about how to interpret  the evidence.<br /><br />This book's biggest problem, I think, is its length  (600+ pages). The large number of illustrations helps, but this is a book  that has to be read in bits and pieces. Luckily, the book is divided in  such a way that reading it a piece at a time is the easiest way to read it.	2000-08-14
US	49887650	R18S5QG1YGZRHA	095216440X	187739757	The Romanovs: Love, Power & Tragedy	Books	5	28	31	N	N	A beautiful photographic tribute to the last tsar	This is probably THE best photographic tribute to Nicholas II and his  family that I have read. It has more photographs than any other book except  &quot;Nicholas and Alexandra: The Last Imperial Family of Tsarist  Russia,&quot; and unlike that book, it includes a coherent narrative of the  Romanovs' lives and deaths. The photographs are breathtaking, and the  writing is good. It includes numerous quotes from previously unpublished  letters and diaries of the Tsar and Empress and their five children. The  information on the children is especially appreciated, since it is so hard  to find books that deal with any of the daughters except Anastasia.<br />One  flaw that irritated me a great deal was the translation of the Romanovs'  letters and diary entries. For example, one fragment was translated  &quot;Talked with golden Mitya... nice, sweet he is.&quot; Word order is  less important in Russian than it is in English; without having access to  the original Russian, I can still guess that a correct translation would  have been &quot;he is nice, sweet.&quot; Another entry is translated  &quot;a bit of him she is,&quot; instead of the much better &quot;she is a  bit of him.&quot; Similar mutilations of grammar occur throughout the  book's quotes. This sort of thing is just plain sloppy, and very  annoying.<br />The other fault I want to mention is from the chapter on  Empress Alexandra's childhood. It was written by Dr. Manfred Knodt, who  wrote a biography of Alexandra's brother, in German. The chapter quotes  from Alexandra's mother, Alice's, letters to HER mother, Queen Victoria.  These letters were originally written in English. They were published in  English; this volume was then translated into German. The quotes from  Alice's letters don't match the English volume; my guess is that the author  worked from the German edition, and these quotes were then translated into  English. Another minor thing, but sloppy. An editor ought to have caught  this.<br />So, overall, the pictures are beautiful and the writing is good. A  few sloppy errors in translation, but still one of the best books I've read  on the subject.	2000-08-14
US	49887650	R2E2T9M88LBYSM	0750917032	862110679	The Black Death (Sutton Illustrated History Paperbacks)	Books	2	49	51	N	N	Too popularized to be academic and too dry to be enjoyable	Ziegler's &quot;The Black Death&quot; is obviously intended to be a  popularized account of the infamous bubonic plague that swept Europe in the  late 1300s. Unfortunately, the book suffers from the worst of both worlds.  It is too full of statistics and academic arguments to be an easily  readable book, and yet has nothing new to offer that would make it  interesting to the academic. There is nothing wrong with writing a book  based only on previously published sources, but Ziegler does not do a good  job of integrating these sources together. He discusses the relative merits  of this method of computing the number of dead and that method of computing  the number of dead; this discussion takes pages. One gets the feeling that  a good editor was needed, to go through the book with a red pen and make  Ziegler cut these pages of boring exposition down to mere paragraphs.  Unfortunately, one also gets the feeling that these pages were left in  because without them, the book would be exceedingly slender. <br />A few other  complaints: an entire chapter was devoted to a fictional village. Why?  Ziegler writes that it is to provide a look at what an average village  would suffer, but surely some village, somewhere in England, was thoroughly  enough documented that Ziegler did not have to resort to fiction. (I would  be much less disapproving if the writing in this chapter had been better.)  <br />The book is also overly concerned with documenting the progress of the  plague: first it went here, where it killed X number of people, then it  went here, where it killed Y number of people. As with the pages of tedious  discussion about academic theories, this leaves one with the overall  feeling that this book was written, not out of any abiding interest in the  subject, but because he thought it would sell. Ziegler discusses (very  briefly) medieval treatments of the plague, as well as its symptoms. What I  was hoping for as I read that section was that Ziegler would then explain  why those treatments did not work, and what the current treatment for  bubonic plague is. Unfortunately, Ziegler didn't seem to have much interest  in the plague as a disease: just on its progression through and impact on  the middle ages. <br />Connie Willis' &quot;Doomsday Book,&quot; while  fiction, is much more readable, and (to my admittedly inexpert eyes) just  as well-researched as &quot;The Black Death.&quot; Certainly I learned  little new about the bubonic plague from &quot;The Black Death&quot; that I  did not already know from reading other (nonfiction) books on the middle  ages.	2000-08-11
US	49887650	R2CX8S0Y0W88AA	0446516171	841552929	Hellburner (Questar Book)	Books	2	8	11	N	N	She's written so much better...	&quot;Hellburner&quot; is a direct sequel to &quot;Heavy Time,&quot; and I  strongly recommend you read &quot;Heavy Time&quot; before starting on  &quot;Hellburner&quot;-- the book probably won't make much sense if you  don't.<br />As in &quot;Heavy Time,&quot; there are two major questions: Who  killed Paul Dekker's friend(s) in an &quot;accident&quot;? Is Dekker  himself sane? The  accident itself, as in &quot;Heavy Time,&quot; occurred  off-stage, before the book begins. I have to admit, when I opened the book  and found Dekker once again nutty, I thought, &quot;Oh, oh, here we go  again...&quot; Luckily, Cherryh dispenses with this faster than she did in  the first book, although not perhaps fast enough.<br />Ben Pollard, whom I  found to be remarkably unsympathetic in the first book, is rounded-out in  this one, and a lot easier to tolerate. Dekker remains-- annoyingly-- a  cipher. The way in which some of the major characters from &quot;Hard  Time&quot; were later introduced into the book seemed contrived. Plot-wise,  &quot;Hellburner&quot; ends up being pretty unsatisfying. Everything seems  to happen in the last few pages, and the final resolution is more of a  tease than a resolution. Still, I have read worse.	2000-08-09
US	49887650	R2YC4T49HO485B	9748434494	748658034	Czarevitch Nicolas of Russia in Siam and Saigon (First English Translation)	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Interesting look at Asia in the 1890s	&quot;Czarevitch Nicolas of Russia in Siam and Saigon&quot; is excerpted  from the official account of the trip of then-Tsarevich Nicholas  Aleksandrovich (later Tsar Nicholas II) to Asia and eastern Russia in 1891.  The writing style can be a bit strange, jumping from past to present tense  and back again. (This may be a fault of the translation.) It is mostly a  travelogue, covering the Tsarevich's time in Siam, Burma, Sri Lanka (then  called Ceylon), India, and Vietnam. There are a lot of very interesting  engravings. <br />I enjoyed leafing through the book, but found it difficult  to read at one sitting. The book is divided into days (&quot;Monday, 23  March 1891,&quot; for example) which makes browsing easier. The information  on the Tsarevich himself is minimal.	2000-08-05
US	49887650	R1FO99RJ52GYUP	0440221595	976995808	The Glass Lake	Books	4	1	1	N	N	One of Binchy's best	I do enjoy reading Maeve Binchy, but most of her books are only worth  reading once. The plots and characters often seem to repeat themselves.  Often several main characters are little more than cardboard cutouts or,  worse yet, cariactures of themselves. She doesn't seem to know what makes  them tick. In &quot;The Glass Lake,&quot; however, she has managed to  create a believable and sympathetic cast. There is, of course, the typical  Binchy dyed-in-the-wool villain: loving but weak, insensitive,  self-centered; in essence, a handsome spoiled child. With the other  characters, however, Binchy has avoided this sort of easy answer. Kit, her  heroine, is, as always, a triumph (it is not her heroines Binchy has  trouble writing). But she also manages to make Helen, Kit's mother, a  heroine herself. The dilemma Helen faces is entirely real, her sadnesses  entirely sympathetic, and yet the pain caused by her &quot;solution&quot;  is undeniable. <br />Martin, Helen's husband and Kit's father, is unusual for  Binchy, who often seems to have difficulty writing men. He is a loving man,  a beloved father, yet an unloved husband. Binchy shows us these things in  such a way that they seem entirely inevitable, and without taking sides.  You cannot condemn Helen for not loving her husband, but neither can you  condemn Martin for not being loved. Equally unusually for Binchy, she  manages to create a romantic hero who proves to be neither unfaithful nor  unbelievable. Minor characters are dealt with in a more sympathetic light  than Binchy often uses: mean people are often so because of private  miseries, bad people can reform, and those who are not good can still be  happy.<br />There is a happy fairy-tale ending that somewhat stretches  credibility. But it is, after all, a Maeve Binchy book. One I highly  recommend to all her fans.	2000-08-04
US	49887650	RQE4H1P1DERMC	0394432622	928897898	Kristin Lavransdatter: The Bridal Wreath; The Mistress of Husaby; The Cross	Books	4	12	13	N	N	A trilogy that grows on you	It took me three tries before I was able to get through the Kristin  Lavransdatter trilogy. On my third, successful, attempt, I was surprised at  how much I enjoyed the second two books. The first book is my least  favorite of the three, probably because Kristin's fatalism, so believable  when she is unmarried and &quot;shamed&quot;, and during her later life  when she is forced to confront so many trials, doesn't make sense (to me at  least) when she is a happy and beautiful teenager of good family, with a  doting father, etc., etc. The second two books were wonderful:  well-written, good characterization, good plot. Through all three books I  was struck by Undset's eye for tiny details. (The only one that comes to  mind right now is when she is a little girl and her father is encouraging  her to eat by pinching bred into the shape of horses, putting a piece of  meat on their back for the rider, and trotting them across his leg to her  mouth.) It took me a while to get into the Kristin books, but when I did, I  liked them a lot.	2000-08-03
US	49887650	R3DQWZ0QEUGF6S	5815900060	595581700	Romanovy: Imperatorskiĭ dom v izgnanii : semeĭnai͡a︡ khronika (Russian Edition)	Books	2	1	1	N	N	Overview of the Vladimirovichi Romanovs	This Russian book is, essentially, a biography of three Romanovs, all  claimants to the &quot;Russian Imperial Throne&quot; after the Revolution:  Grand Duke Kirill Vladimirovich (whose wife, Ducky, was the subject of  Michael John Sullivan's recent &quot;A Fatal Passion&quot;), his son  Vladimir, and Vladimir's daughter Maria. The book is mostly based on  published sources and interviews with the living members of the family  (Vladimir's wife Leonida, their daughter Maria, and her son Georgy). <br />The  book is about 350 pages, and has some interesting information on the fate  of some of the other Romanovs after the Revolution (the children and  grandchildren of Grand Duke Konstantin, for example). Unfortunately, this  information-- like most of the other information in the book-- is dealt  with in terms of: this person did X or Y, and because of Z, this means the  Vladimirovichi are the only &quot;true heirs.&quot; Most of the book is  about the Vladimirovichi claims.<br />The title (roughly translatable as  &quot;The Romanovs: The Imperial House in Exile, a Family Chronicle&quot;)  is somewhat misleading. It deals almost exclusively with the  Vladimirovichi. The biased slant can get annoying. The genealogical charts  in the back, however, deal with all the various branches of the family and  are somewhat interesting.	2000-08-03
US	49887650	R385WYOUQ91HK2	0517414724	874931317	Last Courts of Europe: Royal Family Album, 1860-1914	Books	5	38	39	N	N	A beautiful photographic overview of a beautiful time	Despite the Amazon header, &quot;The Last Courts of Europe&quot; was in fact edited by Jeffrey Finestone, with an introduction by Robert Massie.  The book is divided into several sections: Great Britain; Russia;  Austria-Hungary; Prussia; The Lesser German States; Belgium, Luxembourg and  The Netherlands; France; Scandinavia; Iberia; Italy; The Balkans; and The  Eleventh Hour. There are over three hundred photographs, all beautifully  reproduced in sepia tone.<br />The selection is excellent. Best of all, there  are many photographs included of lesser-known royals and less-documented  royal families. Though it is easy to find photographs and information on  modern royals, deposed or ruling, of almost any nation, for the  Victorian-Edwardian period it is a lot harder. A good job was also done of  finding photographs that demonstrate the intertwined relationships of  Victorian royalty. (My personal favorite is a picture of King Nicholas I of  Montenegro with his children [and their spouses] and grandchildren: it  includes two Russian Grand Duchesses, two Grand Dukes, the King and Queen  of Italy, a Prince and Princess of Battenberg, the Crown Prince of Serbia  and a Serbian Princess, and numerous Princes and Princesses of  Montenegro.)<br />A beautiful, beautiful book, and a must-have for anyone  interested in this period of European royalty.	2000-08-03
US	49887650	R3OHJF063RGLDL	0938635905	582756382	A Gathered Radiance: The Life of Alexandra Romanov, Russia's Last Empress	Books	2	22	25	N	N	Not bad, but not particularly remarkable, either	&quot;A Gathered Radiance&quot; is a slim book, less than 130 pages. It  relies entirely on published sources, almost to a fault: entire paragraphs  at a time are quoted from one book or another. Most frustratingly, only a  few books are quoted this way, and they are the commonly-used first-hand  sources: the books of Pierre Gilliard, Sophie Buxhoeveden (only her  biography of Alexandra: her other two books were not consulted), Lili Dehn,  J. C. Trewin (quoting Sydney Gibbs) and Ian Vorres (quoting Grand Duchess  Olga Alexandrovna). Occasionally she quotes Sir George Buchanan, and a few  other sources are consulted once or twice. But that's about it. The author  has a few interesting insights, but mostly she just quotes. And quotes and  quotes. On the other hand, you could say that at LEAST she quotes, allowing  you to choose the merits of the quoted material yourself, rather than  relying on her analysis. But that is not much to say for a book.<br />To sum  it up, &quot;A Gathered Radiance&quot; is mostly a factual overview of  Alexandra's life (with lots of quoting!), and the religious content (the  author is billed on the cover as Nun Nectaria McLees) is fairly negligible:  an introduction titled &quot;Alexandra Romanov and Christian Monarchy&quot;  (which was actually sort of interesting) and an Afterword about Alexandra's  canonization. Quite frankly, there are better biographies of Alexandra out  there; this one doesn't have much to offer that can't be found elsewhere.	2000-08-03
US	49887650	R1VL8LD2HTDS9J	0404047998	943147611	The Chronicle of Novgorod, 1016-1471 (Camden Third Series, V. 25) (English and Russian Edition)	Books	3	9	11	N	N	Interesting but only for true medieval Russian fanatic	&quot;The Chronicle of Novgorod, 1016-1471&quot; is exactly what it sounds like: a medieval chronicle of the Russian city of Novgorod. The entries are short, usually about a paragraph long, and deal mostly with the  machinations of princes and warriors. Human interest is short. (The only  reference to the author[s] of the chronicle is found under the entry for  1144: &quot;The same year the holy Bishop Nifont appointed me  priest.&quot;) The translation, originally done in 1914, is very good, but  the book could have done with a little more information. The rival princes  and grand princes and so forth all had the same names, and when the  chronicler only refers to, say, &quot;Prince Yaroslav,&quot; it is  difficult to know which Yaroslav he is referring to.<br />I found the  Chronicle most interesting in the notes about Novgorod  life on the lower  levels of the social strata, as when the author notes the price of bread,  or when some renegade nobles burn down a village elder's home outside the  city, or when things like the following are noted: &quot;There was a fire,  and it went from Borkova Street up to the [stream] Gzen, and on the other  side of the river... eight wooden churches were completely and three stone  churches partially burnt, and fourteen men, women and children perished on  June 5&quot;.<br />Not being an expert in Russian medieval history, I found  the longer and more detailed accounts of princes' raids, battles, and power  grabs interesting, but the briefer ones (&quot;Prince Yaroslav came to  Novgorod and all the men of Novgorod were glad.&quot;) frustrated me, since  no more detailed explanation of the identities of the people discussed is  given, and the chronicler obviously assumed his readers would know whom he  was speaking about.	2000-07-25
US	49887650	R1RBECDTZGWWGZ	0781283981	431729532	Letters of a Diplomat's Wife, 1883-1900 (American Biography Series)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Chatty look at royal Victorian courts and courtiers	Mary King Waddington was an American married to a French diplomat. This book is composed of her letters to various friends and family members (identified only by their initials). A large part of it is devoted to the  1883 coronation of Russian Tsar Alexander III. The rest is devoted to life  at the court of Queen Victoria during the last years of her reign.  Waddington was a fluent and chatty letter writer, and obviously very happy  in society; she includes details of what all the assorted queens and  princesses wore to balls, coronations, and audiences, etc., as well as  excellent anecdotes. (She describes another American embassy wife's  reaction to long waits in line: &quot;I heard a... voice saying in English:  'I can't bear it another moment... I am kicking off my shoes.' 'But you can  never put them on again.' 'I don't care if I never see them again-- I can't  stand them another minute.' 'But you have to walk in a cortege to supper  with the Imperial party.' 'I don't care at all, I shall walk in my  stockings,' then came another little kick, and the slipper disappeared,  rolling underneath a heavy damask curtain.&quot;)<br />So many books that  describe this period are memoirs, written many years after the fact, often  with the intent of presenting a certain view. Waddington wrote her letters  just after and, in some cases, during the events she describes. There is a  vividness to her writings that one rarely finds in memoirs. A fun read for  those interested in the Russian and English courts during the end of the  19th century and start of the 20th.	2000-06-27
US	49887650	R1M51TUWO1KCRE	5210013340	534863483	Dnevniki, vospominanii͡a︡, stikhi, pisʹma (Russian Edition)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Interesting letters &amp; diaries of a Romanov grand duke	Konstantin Konstantinovich Romanov (1858-1915) was a Grand Duke of Russia; a poet (under the name &quot;K.R.&quot;) and playwright; a loving husband and father; and a closeted homosexual. This book is mostly a collection of  his diaries, ranging from 1877-1915; a few of his poems, some letters to  Anatoly Fyodorovich Koni, and some reminiscences about him are also  included. Very little has been published about the Grand Duke in the  English-language (the best information I have found is in Sergei Mironenko  &amp; Andrei Maylunas's &quot;A Lifelong Passion&quot;) but it cannot  compare to the scope of this book. The Grand Duke was a fascinating  character. Even into adulthood, his diaries are filled with numerous  affectionate references to &quot;Mama&quot; and &quot;Olya&quot; (his  sister Olga, the Queen of Greece). How can you not be charmed by the  conclusion of one of his early diary entries: &quot;Goodbye, dear, loyal,  worthy diary&quot;? There are many interesting anecdotes: a meeting with  the dying Empress Maria Aleksandrovna, staying with Alexander III and his  wife in Denmark, the coronation of Nicholas II, the tragic death of his  favorite son Oleg. All in all, an interesting book, and well-edited by Ella  Matonina.	2000-05-28
US	49887650	R3VWZYJV5EF3QN	0405030789	326917874	The Dissolution of an Empire (Russia Observed)	Books	2	2	2	N	N	It could have been so much better!	Meriel Buchanan, daughter of the English ambassador to Russia (Sir George Buchanan) during the time shortly before the revolution, made something of a career of writing books and novels about Russia before the revolution. In  &quot;Dissolution of an Empire&quot;, a memoir, it shows. She writes in an  overly emotional novelistic tone, making it fairly clear that her dialogue  at balls and so forth is not to be relied upon, but is merely the SORT of  thing she heard there. She consulted so many other works about the period  that one is never really sure how much of what she is writing about she  actually KNEW or WITNESSED. That in turn makes this into mostly just  another book about the Russian Revolution-- told in a more fluid style than  many scholarly works but with less valuable content. She has no new  insights on the period. And for those who don't favor the style of a  &quot;Victorian novel&quot; the book is very difficult to get through.  There are many other memoirs of the period of more interest and better  content. (I strongly recommend, for example, any of Baroness Sophie  Buxhoeveden's books.)	2000-05-28
US	49887650	R2NS2MHX67H8UQ	0836968336	581646741	Political memoirs, 1914-1917;: Pages from my diary	Books	2	0	1	N	N	Deadly dull memoirs by a Greek prince	Prince Nicholas of Greece had an interesting family background, being the son of King George I of Greece, married to a Russian grand duchess (Elena Vladimirovna) and related to most of the royal families of Europe.  Unfortunately, this book is not very interesting. The author dedicates it  &quot;to the memory of KING CONSTANTINE [of Greece, his brother] in the  hope that it may clear the name of a man cruelly wronged a great king a  great gentleman and soldier and a great Hellene&quot;. This essentially  sums up the entire book-- a zealous defense of King Constantine. It goes on  and on for three hundred pages. <br />When the author lets himself go, there  are a few interesting moments in the book; his description of Pavlovsk  Palace in Russia, where he stayed with his mother and her brother's family  for several months, is interesting and amusing. Unfortunately, he takes the  title &quot;political memoirs&quot; seriously and sticks almost entirely to  politics; and his point of view is so biased that it reads like a  propaganda piece more than anything else. The writing suffers, too, during  these sections, making the book almost impossible to wade through. I have  not read Nicholas's earlier memoirs (&quot;My Fifty Years&quot;) but  honestly can't say that I found this particular book of much interest.	2000-05-18
US	49887650	R24YJQTJ8O3X09	0405031394	99826149	Russian Journals of Martha and Catherine Wilmot (Russia Observed Series)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Fascinating look at the Russia of Alexander I	An interesting look at Russia from 1803-1808. Martha and Catherine Wilmot, two English ladies, went at various points to stay with Princess Dashkova (a friend of Catherine the Great) and this book is composed of their  journals and letters home. Their letters provide a fascinating look at  Russia, particularly the habits of the Russian nobility, during the reign  of Tsar Alexander I. Both women were skilled writers, with an eye for the  interesting anecdote, and spared no detail for the folks back home. They  write about the price of sturgeon, the travails of a homesick maid, the  conquests they made at a ball, and the Tsar's wife (&quot;the loveliest  creature I almost ever saw&quot;). A very interesting book, and a pleasure  to read.	2000-05-18
US	49887650	R1R8GMOUXUUDF2	0670835935	665976988	The Other Russia: The Experience of Exile	Books	4	6	6	N	N	An interesting book about Russian emigres	This book is about &quot;the Russian dustmen of Cannes&quot;, the Russians who fled during and after the Russian revolutions in 1918-1919 and tried to carve out a new life for themselves and their families in the West. The  book is made up of 61 chapters, each by a different emigre. Mostly they are  extracts from interviews by the book's authors with the emigres; a few are  from written sources. A few of the emigres are whiners (the Bolsheviks  &quot;took all our lovely horses&quot;, one Countess complains) but most  have interesting things to say. For royalty watchers, there is the account  of Dowager Empress Maria Fyodorovna's lady-in-waiting of their captivity in  the Crimea, and tales of Grand Duchess Ksenia in exile. There are tales of  pogroms under imperial Russia, life during the revolution, escape from  Russia in multitudes of ways, life in exile, life under the Soviet  regime... The book's format makes it easy to skip around, and boring or  annoying accounts are easily skipped over. The accounts seem to be weighted  in favor of members of the nobility and bourgeoisie. A good book for anyone  who is interested in how they lived during the revolution and after.	2000-05-18
US	49887650	R249MY8QQNO3N5	5769105976	84461046	The last act of a tragedy: New documents about the execution of the last Russian emperor Nicholas II	Books	3	5	5	N	N	Interesting collection of documents	This is a collection of documents relating to four things: the final days of Tsar Nicholas II and his family, their murders, the concealment and discovery of their jewels and valuables, and the discovery of their  remains. Many of the documents have not been published elsewhere in  English; but many of the more important ones HAVE. The stuff that has not  been published elsewhere (in English) mostly relates to the valuables and  the bodies-- both of which are somewhat interesting, but only for true  Romanov fanatics. The translation of the book from Russian to English is  somewhat poor. It is quite readable, but errors and convoluted phrasing  sometimes made me wince. <br />The introductory essay, an overview of the  books written about the imperial family's captivity and death, is  interesting but suffers simply because it is based mostly on  &quot;foreign&quot; (ie, English- and French-language sources, or Russian  books published by the emigre press) sources, and therefore less  supplementary reading (other people's discussions of these books or their  authors, for example) was done.<br />I have never seen the documents relating  to the excavation of the imperial remains (in 1991) published before, but  that reason may be that several much more readable accounts of the events  have been published, and no one saw any need to publish the documents  themselves in their entirety. Where this book really shines is in the  information it gives about the servants of the Tsar's family who stayed in  Russia; those who remained faithful and those who did not; and those who  went to extraordinary (one might even say shocking) lengths to protect the  belongings of the Tsar's family. An interesting work for the true Romanov  devotee, but anyone else will probably not be interested.	2000-05-18
US	49887650	R2RUS1YCIVAKF7	0333171020	39568098	Tutor to the Tsarevich: An Intimate Portrait of the Last Days of the Russian Imperial Family	Books	5	2	2	N	N	An excellent book about the last Tsar's family	This is a wonderful book compiled from the papers of Tsar Nicholas II's children's English teacher. It was also published under the title &quot;The House of Special Purpose&quot;.	2000-03-22
US	49887650	R3C0DU8R38Y9UY	0304296031	543167378	A Family of Kings: The Descendants of Christian IX of Denmark	Books	4	19	19	N	N	Well-written book based on previously published sources	King Christian IX's children went on to illustrious futures from an undistinguished beginning. The eldest daughter, Alexandra, married (the future) King Edward VII of Great Britain. His second daughter, Dagmar,  married (the future) Tsar Alexander III of Russia. His oldest son became  King Frederick VIII of Denmark. His second son, William, was elected King  of Greece and became King George I. Christian's descendants sat on the  thrones of England, Denmark, Norway, Russia, Greece and Belgium.<br />This  book is based entirely on published sources, but Aronson is a skilled  writer and has written a smoothly-flowing narrative. The book is intended  to focus on all of Christian's children, but ends up devoting most of its  attention to Alexandra and Dagmar, who are the best-documented and (in many  peoples' eyes) the most interesting. This is understandable, but by the  same token it is a shame that more space was not devoted to say, Thyra, the  youngest daughter, who gets so little attention. Other than that, the  book's main flaw is that it really has no new information or insights to  add to what has already been written. But Aronson does a good job of  relying on huge numbers of published sources and the book is a good read.	2000-03-22
US	49887650	R380PWEW22YOBH	0812817966	677753256	The House of Special Purpose: An Intimate Portrait of the Last Days of the Russian Imperial Family : Compiled from the Papers of Their English Tutor,	Books	5	7	7	N	N	A fascinating view of the family of the last tsar	&quot;The House of Special Purpose&quot; is compiled from the papers of Charles Sydney Gibbes (or Gibbs), English tutor to the children of Tsar Nicholas II. J. C. Trewin did an excellent job of going through Gibbs'  papers and combining them with published sources to form a fascinating  narrative. The photographs, too, are well-chosen. The Russian revolution  happens a third of the way through the book; however, Gibbs was with the  family in their captivity in Siberia, and has interesting anecdotes and  dimensions to add. One complaint is the lack of a proper bibliography.  While &quot;House of Special Purpose&quot; was mostly based on unpublished  sources, it would be nice to know at a glance what other sources Trewin  consulted. (Sometimes sources are given in footnotes at the bottom of the  page; other times they are not.) Similarly, an index might have been nice.  However, these are both stylistic complaints. This is an interesting book,  highly recommended for anyone with an interest in the last tsar. It is, as  other reviewers have said, a shame that it is out of print and hard to  find.	2000-03-22
US	49887650	R2GZBSR5RNS010	0810803313	781644008	Reminiscences of My Father, Peter A. Stolypin	Books	5	7	7	N	N	An amazing memoir	These are the memoirs of Maria Petrovna von Bock, the oldest daughter of Pyotr Stolypin, a reformist prime minister of Russia who was assassinated in 1911. Maria's eye for detail is fascinating, and her portrait of her  father is loving and detailed. She paints Stolypin as a man who loved his  family and his country, and his main regret was that serving his country  took him away from his family. He was struck by tragedy in 1906, when a  failed assassination attempt (a suicide bomber) wounded his son and  crippled his second daughter so severely she nearly died.<br />While Maria  keeps herself an unobtrusive presence in her memoirs, her sensitivity  permeates the book. When the house was bombed, she kept her wits together,  gathering her uninjured siblings around her and tending to the wounded. But  when, soon afterwards, a plot was uncovered that involved subverting Maria  and, through her, introducing a &quot;teacher&quot; for her younger  siblings into the household, who would then kill her father, Maria was so  stricken with guilt that she had &quot;an attack of nerves&quot; so severe  that she had to be sent abroad.<br />Maria has an outsider's eye in describing  the splendours of &quot;society&quot; towards the end of imperial Russia.  Who stood where and did what is all explained, in a way that many  memoirists of the period do not bother with (to them, of course, it was  obvious).<br />It is the little things that stick with you from this book--  the image of Maria's small brother, for example, after recovering from  being nearly blown up, being so ashamed at not recognizing his sister after  her return from abroad that &quot;He walked around all day with eyes cast  down, not talking to anyone, repeating under his breath, 'Shame on me that  I did not recognize Matia.'&quot; The amount of characterization contained  in this simple anecdote is breathtaking. It is a sad book-- her brother and  sister are nearly blown to bits, the family lives behind barbed wire, and  her father is assassinated under the Tsar's very eyes; in a footnote, we  learn a young sister was killed by the Bolsheviks in 1920-- but a beautiful  one.	2000-03-21
US	49887650	R2SGI8956ZDQPB	1879066017	329256049	Grand Duchess Elizabeth of Russia: New martyr of the communist yoke	Books	5	20	22	N	N	Fascinating book about a fascinating woman	Born Princess Elizabeth of Hesse, she married a Russian Grand Duke and converted to Orthodoxy. When her husband was assassinated, she founded the Martha and Mary Convent, took the veil, and devoted her life to the service  of the poor. She rejected the efforts of her foreign royal relations to  rescue her from Russia during the Revolution, feeling that she was needed  in Russia and could not leave her work among the poor, and was murdered in  1918.<br />This book is a fascinating recounting of the Grand Duchess' life,  and includes dozens of her letters-- to her grandmother, Queen Victoria; to  her brother, the last Grand Duke of Hesse; and to several friends. The  author relied on unpublished sources in two countries and published sources  in four languages. The scholarship and passion the author put into  researching her subject shows. The religious content of the work,  considering the religious nature of the Grand Duchess and the central role  religion played in her life, is entirely appropriate and even necessary. In  any case, it is nowhere near as militant as the subtitle (&quot;new martyr  of the Communist yoke&quot;) might indicate. Quite simply, this is a  well-researched and affectionate portrait of a fascinating and complex  woman, one of the best biographies of her I have read.	2000-03-16
US	49887650	R3VC5S78MDEW1K	0865650195	75100633	The Romanov Family Album	Books	5	16	16	N	N	A fascinating photo collection	&quot;The Romanov Family Album&quot; is probably one of the earlier photo collections on the last imperial family of Russia. The photographs come from the photo albums of Ania Vyrubova, Empress Aleksandra's closest  friend; the albums are now among the collections in Beinecke Library at  Yale University. <br />Most of the pictures are of the family's annual summer  trips to the Crimea and through the fjords of Finland, with a fair  smattering of the family during World War I and a few photographs of the  imperial family in captivity at Tobolsk. Numerous lengthy excerpts from  Ania Vyrubova's chatty memoirs add some entertaining color. An introduction  by Robert Massie gives a brief (and interesting) history of how the albums  ended up with Yale. <br />On the whole this is a very interesting book. The  main flaw is that it's very difficult to find.	2000-03-16
US	49887650	R2B1W5KUQT11T9	0806520647	246158262	The Quest for Anastasia: Solving the Mystery of the Lost Romanovs	Books	2	23	25	N	N	A mediocre recounting of a fascinating story	Despite the book's subtitle (\\"Solving the Mystery of the Lost Romanovs\\"), the authors have very little to add to what has already been written about the subject. They simply cobbled together the various accounts and information into a single book. Their writing style is uneven,  since they have done very little in the way of smoothly merging the  information. One can go through the book, page by page, and see that  \\"oh, they took these four pages from the information in that book, and  the next three from this other book\\".     In several cases, they give  us a several-page synopsis of a book or article which has NOTHING to do  with the narrative-- for example, four pages pointing out anti-Semitic  passages in one early investigator's (Robert Wilton's) book. Since the  authors disagree with these passages, and the passages themselves have  nothing to say beyond anti-Semitic ranting, why bother to give such a  detailed description of exactly what they said? The authors also digress  from the narrative to discuss obscure editorials, rants, and works of  fiction dealing with the Romanovs' deaths. The point of all this escapes  me.     I also noticed several minor errors on the first read-through--  sloppy errors, which indicated that the authors had skimmed, rather than  actually reading, some of their source material.     The whole book feels  like it was slappped together in hopes of making some money on a (fairly)  popular subject. Several of their main sources are both better-written and  more informative (William Clarke's \\"The Lost Fortune of the  Tsars\\" and Peter Kurth's \\"Anastasia\\"; Robert Massie's  \\"The Romanovs: The Final Chapter\\", which is not in the  bibliography, covers much of the same material as \\"Quest for  Anastasia\\" and is much more informative). Since these books are still  in print, I honestly can't see much reason to waste your time with this  one.	2000-03-15
US	49887650	R1VI5245CMR85Q	0434348619	653882312	Advice to a Grand-daughter: Letters from Queen Victoria to Princess Victoria of Hesse	Books	5	6	6	N	N	A fascinating collection of letters	&quot;Advice to a grand-daughter&quot; is a collection of letters from Queen Victoria to her granddaughter, Princess Victoria of Hesse, wonderfully selected and edited by Richard Hough. The letters date from April 1870 to July 1900. Victoria of Hesse was the oldest daughter of Queen  Victoria's Hessian grandchildren, and after their mother (the Queen's  daughter Alice) died in 1878, Queen Victoria undertook to raise them  long-distance, often by barraging Princess Victoria with instructions on  how to deal with the younger children.<br />As always, the Queen's charming  and forceful-- if occasionally overbearing-- personality makes itself felt  in her letters. The Hessian royal children grew up to be forceful  personalities in their own right. Princess Victoria married Prince Louis of  Battenberg; the family changed their name to Mountbatten towards the end of  the First World War; Victoria's youngest son is best known as the late Earl  Mountbatten of Burma, and one of her grandsons is Prince Philip, the  current Duke of Edinburgh. The second girl, Princess Elizabeth, married a  son of Tsar Alexander II of Russia and, after his murder by anarchists,  took the veil and was herself murdered during the Russian Revolution. The  third, Princess Irene, married the only brother of Kaiser Wilhelm II. The  youngest daughter, Alix (or &quot;Alicky&quot;, as she appears in these  letters), married Tsar Nicholas II of Russia; she and her entire family  were killed during the Revolution. The boy, Ernest Louis  (&quot;Ernie&quot;), was the last reigning Grand Duke of Hesse, a patron of  the arts.<br />These letters provide a detailed and fascinating recounting of  some of the childhood events of the Hessians-- Princess Victoria's  marriage, the Queen's hissy fits over each marriage, in turn, of the three  youngest girls', family births and family deaths, the Queen's trips to  Europe. An absorbing book, highly recommended to anyone with an interest in  Queen Victoria and the intertwined relationships of European royalty of the  period.	2000-03-15
US	49887650	R1B3QWXCF5J7MX	075091825X	375488751	Beloved & Darling Child. Last Letters between Queen Victoria and her Eldest Daughter 1886-1901	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Interesting subject, mediocre editing	This last collection of the letters between Queen Victoria and her oldest daughter, the Empress Frederick, cannot help but be fascinating. Unfortunately, the editing and annotation cannot in any way compare to Roger Fulford's work on the previous volumes. The annotations are either in  brackets (interrupting the flow of the page-- the Queen and her daughter  were fond of nicknames and abbreviations, so a great deal of annotation is  needed) or at the end of the book (necessitating flipping to the back of  the book and figuring out the footnote number to read the clarifying  information). While this book is not as easily readable as the previous  volumes, the information it contains is just as interesting.	2000-03-15
US	49887650	R3MVX8PX2SC6M0	0312179367	595139271	Royal Russia: The Private Albums Of The Russian Imperial Family	Books	4	12	12	N	N	Good book, but not great	The photographs are beautiful. There are fewer of them than in most other Romanov photo collections, but then, I haven't seen most of them elsewhere, either. One quibble is that several of the photographs seem to be mistakenly identified-- which daughter is which, and so forth. Slightly  annoying. The book could also have done with more accompanying text and  descriptions. Most pages contain just one or two photographs with brief  captions.	2000-03-15
