US	49883056	RHZLPI37CFJAY	159116852X	782171908	One Piece, Vol. 7: The Crap-Geezer	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A lack of food and a lot of blabbing	One Piece vol. 7 continues the Don Krieg story arc started in vol. 5. This volume is notable for its revelation of Sanji's backstory, and why being a cook and not wasting food is so important to him. Without spoiling too much, I'll say this: if you've only seen the anime version (4Kids butchering or Japanese original), be prepared for something much more shocking. This isn't a rehash of Luffy's origin as depicted in the anime.<br /><br />Unfortunately, the framing for this backstory is rather awkwardly stuffed into the middle of a fight scene, which is my main problem with the Don Krieg arc: talking. Characters stand around making statements about their dreams and powers before actually doing anything. Shonen action titles all suffer a bit from this, and its very noticible here. It's a little easier to swallow in graphic novel format; I can't imagine slogging through this on a monthly basis during the original magazine publication.<br /><br />The volume is mostly three stars, but the inclusion of Sanji's backstory bumps it up to four. Keep on reading, the arc ends next volume.	2005-07-17
US	49883056	R31G3HYHZ9KS7A	1401202349	196953486	Batman: Death and the Maidens	Books	4	6	7	N	N	A very lesiurely paced story	Batman: Death and the Maidens is pretty much essential reading for any fan of the Ra's Al Ghul character. To say why would be to spoil the ending, which shakes up things in the Batman mythos quite a bit (or at least until DC decides to cop-out and ret-con everything once again).<br /><br />The main draw of this graphic novel is seeing Batman communicate with his deceased parents. Those who are expecting real, definite communication will be disappointed, as the story leaves it vague whether Ra's potion is for real or just a hallucination. That's not the point however, because it's Bruce's actions and decisions following the conversation that are important. I don't follow mainstream comics much so I don't know how much of this development has been incorporated into the regular titles, but it's definitely another step for the Batman character.<br /><br />There really is no driving plot line to this story, no doomsday weapon to destroy or plan of world domination to stop. It's all about the characters and their interactions, and the result is a very lesiurely-paced story that might not appeal to all readers. This isn't a bad thing, but I do wish Greg Rucka could've tightened his script a bit more. A lot of time is spent on Nyssa's history and relationship with Ra's. It's almost as if Rucka and Jansen asked for an issue or two more of space than they actually needed, and as a result stayed with a \\"director's cut\\" rather than a tighter, more streamlined narrative.<br /><br />So there's more story here, and as a result this volume is slightly thicker and pricier than you might want to spend on a blind purchase. Ra's Al Ghul fans can nab this without worry, other fans might want to read more reviews or maybe borrow a copy first.	2005-07-16
US	49883056	R1L3JW11LZFM85	1563890666	496715079	Batman: Night Cries	Books	4	2	3	N	N	The Children Cry	Batman: Night Cries is a graphic novel that takes place in the early years of the Batman mythos, and has him and newly-appointed Commissioner Gordon tracking a series of gruesome murders linked to child abuse. As the story unfolds, Gordon is forced to confront how his own anger issues are straining the relationship with his wife and son.<br /><br />This is a beautifully painted and crafted story that explores the issue of child abuse well, with two minor flaws. The first is a melodramatic final page that has Batman screaming into the night because he can't help all the crying children. I appreciate Goodwin's intent, but it just doesn't work for me and feels rather cheesy. The second is that there's a somewhat obvious answer to the killer's identity, because its one of the three newly introduced characters at the beginning of the story. For a work that deals with such a serious, real-life issue, it might have been wiser to make the killer a complete unknown, and integrate the new characters in another way.<br /><br />Ultimately the good outweighs the bad, and Batman: Night Cries is a worthwhile self-contained story for your collection.	2005-06-19
US	49883056	R1KLHARZW2U303	159116723X	936585565	One Piece, Vol. 6: The Oath	Books	5	6	6	N	N	New foes, friends, and deserters	Picking up from where vol. 5 left off, vol. 6 of One Piece finds the Staw Hat crew aboard the ocean restaurant Baratie, where Luffy has to work as a bus boy after injuring the head chef with a rogue cannonball.<br /><br />Honestly, the Baratie arc is one of my least favorites, as there's not much variety in the scenery and the battles become very dragged out. However, vol. 6 contains a host of important plot points that are essential reading. Don Krieg, the villain of the arc, is introduced. He's one of the few villains who doesn't use devil fruit powers, and instead relies on technological weaponry. The other new pirate is \\"Hawk Eyes\\" Mihawk, one of the seven most powerful pirates on the ocean. His honour duel with Zoro is the centerpiece of the volume, and further develops Zoro's motivations while just being a really cool fight. Finally, during the chaos Nami steals the Merry Go (Going Merry) and takes off, setting up the next storyline in the saga. Oh yea and Sanji, the next Straw Hat crew, is also further spotlighted. There's a lot going on here, making vol. 6 worth picking up.	2005-06-14
US	49883056	R2QDDXV076S7TY	1563894165	516042784	JLA (Book 3): Rock of Ages	Books	3	3	5	N	N	Whoa...	Someone, somewhere along the line recommended JLA: Rock of Ages to me. Having bought it, it took me almost a year before I could sit down and give the story a proper read-through. Not because I didn't have the time, but because the story is incredibly difficult to get into.<br /><br />This is really for the hardcore DC/JLA reader. I'm not sure what exactly was happening in the comics during this story's run, but here Wonder Woman is presumed dead, Green Arrow has been replaced by his son Connor, C-list hero Aztek is part of the league, and Superman is in his blue energy phase. That's a lot of changes to take in, and for someone not familiar with the JLA during this period, its quite disorienting.<br /><br />It doesn't help that Morrison weaves two different plot threads together, one with Lex Luthor and a newly formed Injustice Gang and another with the heroes being tossed through time and space to confront a world overrun by Darkseid. You expect the story to focus on the Injustice Gang, then a third of the way through it shifts gears completely and turns epic on a cosmic scale. Granted it all makes sense at the end, and Morrison's writing/ploting can get very clever (such as his defeat of Darkseid), but the sci-fi/techno/mumbo jumbo babble can get very tiresome if you don't have patience for that sort of thing. The art, not that I'm a very good critic, is commendable. Characters stay properly proportioned and don't look overly bulky.<br /><br />Really, Rock of Ages is what the JLA books are all about: massive, cosmic-level threats that take multiple heroes working together to overcome. If you can make it through the story (which is best done slowly one panel at a time) you'll find its an entertaining, if ambitious one. I can't recommend this as a blind purchase, but its definitely one to check out.	2005-05-12
US	49883056	R13DS1G841XQ8Q	0744003466	652259728	Resident Evil 4 Official Strategy Guide (Bradygames Signature Series)	Books	4	8	11	N	N	A nice companion piece	I'm usually not the kind to shell out money for strategy guides, but my friend bought me the RE4 book as a way of celebrating this huge achievement in gaming. Author Dan Birlew has written a great guide that makes the game a blast to play through without spoiling any of the plot points. Of particular use are the map diagrams, which show you the location of every treasure in the game. This is particularly important if you want to upgrade all your weapons or enlarge your case, which would otherwise take a much longer time to accomplish. Elsewhere Birlew offers you advice on the safest way to dispose of enemies that you might not think of in the heat of battle, or what items to sell off and when. There's also some insider info on how certain events are triggered, so you don't suddenly increase the amount of enemies in an area just by simply stepping into a room.<br /><br />There are a few inconsistencies here and there with regards to item placement (book lists magnum bullets when I found rifle, for example), but it only pops up in two or three places and otherwise the guide matches the game to a tee. This strategy guide certainly isn't a required buy, as the game isn't that mentally taxing to finish without it, but if you're a Resident Evil collector or you feel like splurging on an A-list game, you can't go wrong with this guide.	2005-03-01
US	49883056	R5LOP06V9ILT3	0345463099	80649071	Yoda: Dark Rendezvous (Star Wars: Clone Wars)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	The force is strong in this one	While I've been keeping track of Star Wars publishing and release dates since the New Jedi Order, this was one novel that curiously slipped under my radar, and I didn't know it existed until I saw it as a new release in my local bookstore. At first I was hesitant about this one - Star Wars readers have been tricked many times before by major characters being featured on the cover, but only appearing in the actual text for a few pages.<br /><br />I was wrong, and Sean Stewart definitely gives Yoda his due. He captures all the funny quirks about Yoda that we know from the movies while adding in a lot of philosphy and \\"Yoda-isms\\" that don't seem corny and out of place (when write backwards a lot you do, danger of annoyance there is). Stewart also seems to have a blast writing about Yoda, as many of his descriptions are downright hilarious and had me laughing out loud - where else can you find the great Jedi master compared to an \\"evil green potato\\"?<br /><br />Stewart also tosses a lot of secondary characters into the mix, and at first these are confusing - there are chapters dedicated to the 'black sheep Padawan' Scout, and my initial fears of Yoda being relegated to the sidelines seemed to be coming true. However, Stewart gives these characters life and ample spotlight without ever diminishing Yoda's presence, and more importantly he makes these new characters -sympathetic-. Scout could've easily been another Tahiri, but after an exciting Padawan tournament where Scout uses her quick thinking to defeat her opponents, I was ready to follow this character to the end. There are other moments were a duo of droids and even Obi-Wan and Anakin pop up to interrupt the narrative, but rest assured all the pieces fall into place at the end.<br /><br />Stewart also does action well - even the best Star Wars writers like Stackpole and Zahn leave me confused at times during action sequences, but Stewart's writing style makes everything easy to follow.<br /><br />There are lots of other surprises I won't reveal, including the mention of a certain planet being savaged which is a rather cool tie to the expanded universe. If you like Star Wars novels, Yoda: Dark Rendevous is a highly recommended read. Lucasfilm Licensing is strongly urged to bring Stewart back for more novels.lots of other surprises I won't reveal, including the mention of a certain planet being savaged which is a rather cool tie to the expanded universe. If you like Star Wars novels, Yoda: Dark Rendevous is a highly recommended read. Lucasfilm Licensing is strongly urged to bring Stewart back for more novels.	2005-01-07
US	49883056	R304SNFYMIOMWD	159116057X	873168930	One Piece, Vol. 2: Buggy the Clown	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Don't make fun of the nose	Volume 2 of One Piece continues the adventures of Luffy and Zoro while introducing another character - Nami, the pirate thief and navigator. Together the trio must fight off bizzare lion tamers, acrobatic swordsmen, and stop Buggy the Clown Pirate from destroying a peaceful village.<br /><br />Objectively, you could skip volume 2 and not miss anything in the overall story. The Buggy the Clown arc began in volume 1 and does not finish until volume 3, which is unsatisfying unless you read all the volumes at the same time. It's a format readers should get used to, as One Piece story arcs can drag on for volumes at a time (later arcs take as many as 6 books to wrap up). However, to skip volume 2 would be to miss out on a lot of cool action and character development. Unlike the horrible dubbed version currently playing on Foxbox, real violence actually happens to the characters here (Zoro is stabbed by Buggy's knife instead of simply being jabbed with it), and I hope Viz can continue to give us the original, uncensored versions of the story.<br /><br />Get volume 2 and enjoy it for what it is - it's a fun read if you don't go in expecting the story to wrap up. Also try to find an edition with Zoro instead of Zolo, as Viz is reprinting the 1st four volumes after 4Kids changed the name to avoid copyright problems.	2004-12-23
US	49883056	RI9I0P4996IY1	1401200605	192335505	1: Batman: Hush - Volume One	Books	4	5	8	N	N	Reads like Batman's greatest hits	If there's one story arc I've kept hearing praise for over the past year, it's \\"Batman:Hush.\\" How it has the most amazing artwork, the best storytelling, and is the product of the best collaboration in Batman comics in years. Not wanting to track down the individual issues or buy the more expensive hardcover, I finally grabbed the trade paperback to see for myself. My verdict? It's a fun read, but there's been better.<br /><br />The problem doesn't lie in either Jim Lee or Jeph Loeb's talents, but rather that the story ends up reading like \\"Batman's Greatest Hits\\", a compilation of favourite villains and cameos without any real purpose. We go from Killer Croc to Catwoman to Poison Ivy, with appearances by Superman, Talia, Alan Scott, Huntress, and Lois Lane. The bad guys have a plan that involve ransoms, mind control, and lots of backstabbing here and there, but its all been done before. Catwoman's romance with Batman? Yep. Superman vs. Batman? Sure. And appearantly there's a bandaged guy named Hush who's working the strings from the shadows, but he shows up so little that he's basically a nonpresence, and doesn't make me excited for part 2.<br /><br />So why am I still giving this 4 stars? The end result may feel kind of rehashed, but the individual components of this book are excellent. Almost every panel of Jim Lee's art could be used for a large-sized poster or trading card. He draws in a way that defines the characters, no matter what stance or angle or pose they're in. And Jeph Loeb, veteran of Long Halloween, Dark Tomorrow, and Smallville writes this fantasy world exactly like you'd want it to sound, with all the right character quirks and dialogue.<br /><br />So it's not exactly the most original read, but it's still an enjoyable read by all means. If you're a Batman fan there are probably other trade paperbacks worth your money, but you should still get around to adding this to your collection.	2004-09-01
US	49883056	R1N3MN8QJT6DXS	1563898675	570732148	JLA: Riddle of the Beast	Books	3	0	0	N	N	JLA does myth and magic	Riddle of the Beast is an Elseworlds' tale that drops your favourite DC characters into the world of fantasy storytelling. A young lad (Tim Drake) and girl (Zatanna) must gather all the kingdoms together to fend off an attack from the beast (Etrigan the Demon). Despite some amazing artwork, the story still follows the conventions of your typical fantasy adventure. Once you take away the novelty of seeing DC superheroes in their new roles, there's really nothing new here (however, the chapter with weakened King Kal'El was pretty good). It's worth a look, but not worth the money for a hardcover purchase.	2004-06-08
US	49883056	R379BXKYUVKSGG	0345428749	87344379	Destiny's Way (Star Wars: The New Jedi Order, Book 14)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Destiny Begins to Find its Way	This is Book 14 of the New Jedi Order series, and has the remnants of the New Republic coming together after being scattered over the last few volumes. Jacen Solo comes back with the alien Vergere, a new Jedi Council is formed, and an old general comes back with a plan to defeat the Vong.<br />Overall, this is an above-average entry in the series. It's certainly not the train wreck some readers have called it, but it's not up there with Allston and Stover's work either. The main problem is that the book is split in too many different directions and Walter Jon Williams simply couldn't give all the plot threads decent coverage. Parts of the story try to be their own political novel, while other parts are more philosphical and another demands massive space battles. Luceno, Stover, and Denning all wrote seperate Star Wars books detailing these kinds of stories, but Williams had to shove everything into one. It still works well, but can feel condensed at times with a lack of detail in certain places. The last few chapters definitely feel rushed.<br />However, Williams' writing style is nice and involving. It may lack the elegance of Zahn, the humour of Allston and the detail of Luceno, but its perfect for a nice pleasure read in the afternoon. His characterization is pretty spot on, too. Any problems with Jacen Solo aren't because the character was written poorly, but because Williams was simply following Lucasfilm's guidelines and couldn't possibly know Stover would take Jacen to such philosphical depths in the previous novel. Jacen may not be as mature as in &quot;Traitor&quot;, but he's not the whiny, unlikable kid from the early books either. It's just one of the cons that come from writing a series between many seperate authors.<br />Overall I recommend Destiny's Way, as it definitely does its job in advancing the overall story and is a pleasure to read. It's just a pity Williams wasn't given a paperback duology to work on instead, as that's how the events in this book would've been better served.ook would've been better served.	2004-06-01
US	49883056	R1DVYM0GZLRNGM	0930289633	416948084	Batman: A Lonely Place of Dying	Books	3	12	13	N	N	You can't kill a hero	This collected volume directly follows the events of \\"Batman: A Death in the Family\\" where Joker killed Jason Todd, the 2nd Robin. \\"A Lonely Place of Dying\\" follows Tim Drake as he tracks down Dick Grayson, the first Robin, and the events that ultimately lead to Tim becoming Robin himself.<br />As far as origin stories go, this one's slightly above average. Thankfully it doesn't feature anyone getting doused in radioactive chemicals or subjected to the effects of a nuclear bomb, but then again the Batman titles always stay away from that goofiness. It also doesn't feature the cliched \\"avenging death of a loved one\\" that is overused in comics. Tim's deduction of Batman and Nightwing's identities is logical, smart, and still holds up reasonably well by todays standards.<br />However, the tradeoff is that Tim's origin feels kinda...blah. I still wouldn't want them to kill off Tim's family just for the sake of giving him motivation, but here Tim's desire to help Batman \\"get better\\" isn't very exciting. Of course DC wasn't looking to innovate, just to fill in the void Jason Todd had left, and hopefully with a Robin readers would approve of. It also explains why Tim's origin is so obviously linked to Dick Grayon's past, and the story at times hits readers over the head with the \\"Dick Grayson approves of Tim Drake as the new Robin\\" pitch.<br />This is a relatively cheap volume as far as collected editions go, and it's certainly worth a look by Batman fans. It's not overly exciting, but works well in the Batman mythos.	2004-05-31
US	49883056	R19BI7FNV8YZT6	1563896982	871690726	Batman: No Man's Land - Volume 4	Books	4	2	2	N	N	His name is Bane, and he's back	(Note: This is a review for No Man's Land Vol. 4. Amazon groups all five volumes and the novelization as one product.)<br />After stumbling a bit in volumes 2 and 3, No Man's Land gets back on track with volume 4. The big draw here is Bane, who has been sent to Gotham by a mysterious backer for purposes unknown.<br />And really, that turns out to be the weakest part of the volume. The opening chapter with Bane's return is just horribly written, with Batman and Bane talking way too much. The other parts, where Bane mows a path through downtown Gotham, isn't that interesting to read and only builds up to a small plot point.<br />However, the other chapters in the book completely make up for that let-down. Devin Grayson returns to pen two amazing stories, one involving Leslie Tompkins and the MASH sector, and the other featuring Clark Kent visitng NML. Dale Eaglesham also returns as artist, and draws a great Billy Pettit who is looking more crazed than ever. The Two-Face/Montoya/Gordon story also comes to head, as Two-Face puts Gordon on trial for war crimes. It's one of the best arcs of No Man's Land, and bring this subplot full circle. After that, Gordon and Batman finally have their long-awaited chat. Then it's simply a matter or repositioning everyone for the final volume, and finding out who the mysterious outside interest is.<br />If I have one complaint, it's that DC didn't bother to include the Nightwing arc of NML in these volumes. In volume 3, he was assigned to retake Blackgate Prison. Here he's already done it. I've heard Nightwing's adventure in Blackgate was pretty good, and it's unfortunate it didn't make the cut.<br />If you've read the other 3 volumes, continue reading. Volume 4 does a great job of continuing this major Batman crossover arc.	2004-04-19
US	49883056	R2I8OIWUB51HC8	1563896346	871690726	Batman: No Man's Land - Volume 3	Books	3	2	4	N	N	There's a new bat in town...	(Note: This is a review for No Man's Land Vol. 3. Amazon groups all five volumes and the novelization as one product.)<br />This third volume in the &quot;No Man's Land&quot; series will be remembered as the first appearance of the new Batgirl, whom Batman passes the mantle to after unmasking the old one (you can probably guess who it was, but I won't spoil it). Superman also visits Gotham, Billy Pettit finally splits from the Gotham Blue Boys, and Batman and Robin have to free Poison Ivy from Clayface.<br />By now, the weaknesses of writing a major comic-book crossover are starting to show, though No Man's Land is still more coherent than it has any right to be. Since Billy Pettit wasn't featured at all in volume 2, his departure here comes across as more of a plot point than something dramatic and meaningful. The new Batgirl's origins also feel rushed, and it seems odd that Batman would be so quick to accept her - maybe desperate times call for desperate measures? There's also a filler story involving Mr. Freeze that is horrible to read, both from a writing and artistic standpoint (and why would Batman blow up a power plant when Gotham desperately needs power?)<br />That aside though, there's some good stuff here to balance out the bad. It's always fun seeing Batman upstage Superman, even if it's been overplayed. The new Batgirl looks to be an interesting character, and I look forward to the role she'll play in restoring Gotham. The Poison Ivy/Clayface arc is great in terms of story and artwork, and also furthers the subplot concerning Gordon, Montoya, and Two-Face.<br />This volume, like the previous two, is still worth picking up. It's the slightly awkward period of any major crossover, but things only get better from here.	2004-04-19
US	49883056	R39OSAN71Y7YX1	1563893304	523289763	Kingdom Come	Books	5	2	2	N	N	So come what may	Kingdom Come is Mark Waid and Alex Ross's gift to the DC universe. After exiling himself to make room for a newer, more violent generation of superheroes, Superman is reluctantly called back into duty by Wonder Woman to set things right. As he begins to covert all the superheroes back to their proper roots of truth and justice, he begins to question what being a superhero means, and what rights 'gods' have to rule over the mortal population.<br />As an avid Batman reader, I've occasionally come across stories that transcend the stereotyped boundaries of the comic book medium and exist as true literature in their own right. 'The Killing Joke' and 'Batman: Year One' are examples of this. Kingdom come could certainly qualify as another, with one exception. The cast of characters in this graphic novel is huge, spanning the entire DC Comics universe. While the bulk of them are only cameos, there are still a few of them that are apt to cause confusion to casual fans. Everyone knows who Superman, Batman, and Wonder Woman are. Has everyone heard of Green Arrow and Captain Marvel? Maybe. Blue Beetle and Orion? Probably not. The Spectre, who leads the reader's POV character on his journey, is still a mystery to me. Do you have to be versed in the DC Universe to enjoy Kingdom Come? No. Does it add layers to the story to know who everyone is and where they're coming from? Yes.  And if you're a less-than-casual fan (meaning you don't even watch the animated shows like BTAS and Justice League), Kingdom Come might be a little intimidating to read.<br />For those who are brave enough or well versed enough to try though, Kingdom Come is a brilliant work of fiction. The great writing and excellent art come together for a superhero tale that is more than just a comic book tale. Just get a primer in DC history before you dive in.	2004-04-14
US	49883056	R337S4MMV5GT64	1563891425	37503425	Batman: Knightfall Part One: Broken Bat	Books	4	50	52	N	N	Knightfall - You'll believe a bat can break	Knightfall, and the subsequent Knightquest and Knightsend story arcs it spawned marks the first truly *epic* storyline in the Batman comic book titles. This ground-breaking and pivotal series follows Batman as he battles all of Arkham Asylum's inmates, who have been released by the drug-enhanced killer named Bane. Part one culminates with the actual breaking of the Batman, while part two has Batman passing the mantle to his new protege Jean Paul Valley.<br />The biggest problem with Knightfall is that the actual story begins here, but there are countless back-issues of comics and collected editions that you'll need to pick up to understand how everything got to this point. Who is Bane and what does he have against Batman? Go find 'Vengeance of Bane'. Where'd Jean Paul Valley come from? Read 'Sword of Azreal'. What's the drug called venom? Pick up 'Batman: Venom.' Why's Batman so exhausted? There's no direct answer to that one, but it starts with the death of the second Robin in 'Batman: A Death in the Family'. When did Bane beat up Killer Croc and pump the Riddler with venom? There are two individual back-issues you'll need to read to answer those questions. Even chapter 1 of this book, where Bane destroys Arkham, is not technically a part of the Knightfall saga - Knightfall actually begins with the Mad Hatter story. While it's still possible to enjoy Knightfall without reading all this supplemental history, it's not quite as satisfying without it.<br />Still, fans of Batman definitely need to read Knightfall. One of the interesting things DC Comics did was give fans the false impression that the changes happening were *permanant*; Batman would really be replaced for the rest of the series. It's interesting to read through this volume from that perspective - is this arc really worthy of being Batman's final adventure? Each chapter follows Batman as he recaptures an inmate, with occasional subplots to keep things interesting (Scarecrow and Joker take the mayor hostage). The writing is excellent, and so is the art (with a few chapters being done by Jim Aparo). Finally, if you haven't ever seen the actual panel where Batman is broken - stop reading. Get up. Buy this book now. Just go.<br />Batman: Knightfall is a good read, but if you want the full experience, track down all the extra reading I mentioned above. Otherwise you won't feel the impact of this historic Batman arc.e). The writing is excellent, and so is the art (with a few chapters being done by Jim Aparo). Finally, if you haven't ever seen the actual panel where Batman is broken - stop reading. Get up. Buy this book now. Just go.<br />Batman: Knightfall is a good read, but if you want the full experience, track down all the extra reading I mentioned above. Otherwise you won't feel the impact of this historic Batman arc.	2004-04-06
US	49883056	R2IFDEAN0NIU10	1401201938	587774381	Arkham Asylum: Living Hell	Books	5	32	35	N	N	Now entering hell	Arkham Asylum: Living Hell was something I picked up on impulse; I'd decided to buy Grant Morrison's Arkham Asylum, and thought that any trade paperback featuring Arkham Asylum would be an interesting read. After reading both, I've decided that I actually like Living Hell better.<br />When the finance world's &quot;Great White Shark&quot; Warren White pleads insanity to get out of an embezzlement charge, he finds himself in Arkham Asylum, living with dangerous psychos like the Joker, Two Face, Killer Croc, and a host of others. At the same time Warren is being attacked, chief of security Aaron Cash is dealing with the loss of a co-worker and his hand, torn off in a vicious attack.<br />Writer Dan Slott weaves between these two plot threads, as well as a third, with little effort. As Batman, Batgirl, and even the more notable villains only show up as cameos, Slott treats readers to the day to day life of Gotham's madhouse. Guards do prisoners favours, contraband is swapped, secret rendevous are formed, and all of it can only be dealt with with tranquilizers and &quot;unscheduled nap times&quot;. Slott also manages to introduce a couple of new villains with worthy origin stories. Humpty Dumpty is a mild-mannered egg-shaped man who takes his obsession with fixing things a bit too far. Junkyard Dog sifts through garbage and finds value in discarded objects. Jane Doe assumes the personalities and lives of those she kills. And Doodlebug will kill for his art.<br />Speaking of art, it's all very well done. Maybe nothing eye-catching like Morrison's Arkham book, but it really fits the tone of the story. My only gripe with Living Hell is the last chapter, where things really take a bizzare twist. Without spoiling too much, it involves an appearance by Jason Blood (and the demon Etrigan) and ancient rituals involving the undead. This part of the story threw me off, and while I eventually understood it, it's not the direction I wouldve taken the book in.<br />Still, Arkham Asylum: Living Hell is a great read. The focus is on Arkham, not a Batman story involving Arkham, and the result is something that adds depth to the Batman universe.Asylum: Living Hell is a great read. The focus is on Arkham, not a Batman story involving Arkham, and the result is something that adds depth to the Batman universe.	2004-03-16
US	49883056	R1V45F776VVN5H	1563895994	871690726	Batman: No Man's Land - Volume 2	Books	3	5	6	N	N	It's all about bread and circuses	(Note: This is a review for No Man's Land Vol. 2. Amazon groups all five volumes and the novelization as one product.)<br />In No Man's Land Vol. 2, Batman starts to retake Gotham piece by piece. He establishes a line of information with the Penguin. With the help of Batgirl, False Face and other criminals are put away in Blackgate prison, which is being controlled by Lock-Up. Gordon also claims more territory for the GCPD Blue Boys, but at a terrible price, for which the consequences will be paid in future volumes. There are also stand alone stories chronicling the life and trials in NML of its various citizens.<br />My biggest disappointment with this volume is the artwork. Many varying styles of artwork are featured here (as opposed to volume one, which featured only two), and two of them are too cartoony for the dark, gritty feel NML is trying to achieve. I won't say it's bad artwork, but it definitely belongs elsewhere, like in the Batman animated titles. Thankfully, the artwork doesn't detract from the story, which is still excellent. A couple of continuity issues could be raised (like how Two-Face suddenly winds up in Renee Montoya's community when he has his territory to control), but it's a minor quibble.<br />After two volumes, NML is still going strong.	2004-03-08
US	49883056	RF0SR7MTX0BE	1563895641	871690726	Batman: No Man's Land - VOL 01	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Hell comes to Gotham City	(Note: This is a review for No Man's Land Vol. 1. Amazon groups all five volumes and the novelization as one product.)<br />After a massive earthquake levels Gotham, the US government cuts off support and blocks off the city from the rest of the country. Arkham Asylum's most dangerous inmates are freed, and gang wars rage as each take various chunks of Gotham for themselves. This is the situation Batman and his allies find themselves in in No Man's Land, a massive crossover that ran between 1998/1999. Vol. 1 of this collected edition contains two story arcs; the first highlights a new, unknown Batgirl, Batman's return to Gotham, and  the beginnings of Jim Gordon's vow to retake his city. The second story features Huntress and the Scarecrow as they deal with a weapons cache hidden beneath a refugee center.<br />While DC seems to have gotten carried away with massive crossover arcs after the infamous &quot;Knightfall&quot; saga, &quot;No Man's Land&quot; is an excellent read. Characters are stripped of their normal trappings  and forced to fend for themselves in new and interesting ways. Batman operates in daylight to make his presence known; Jim Gordon resorts to unethical tactics by turning gangs against each other; even Scarecrow finds new ways to create fear without his toxins. What helps &quot;No Man's Land&quot; trememdously is that while each chapter of a story was published in a different Batman title, they retained the same writer and visual team. The continuity is served much better this way, without awkward pauses while switching writers or varying art styles that distract from the story. The art itself is very good, conveying the hopelessness of ruined Gotham. It's nothing overly spectacular or notable as far as comics go, but it's a solid effort.<br />Again, the writing is very good. I'd say that the Scarecrow story could've been trimmed down by a quarter and not lost anything, but it still does a good job portraying the ethical and moral dilemas that come in times of need. Highly recommended, though be sure to read Batman: Cataclysm first to get some background on the actual earthquake itself.me in times of need. Highly recommended, though be sure to read Batman: Cataclysm first to get some background on the actual earthquake itself.	2004-03-07
US	49883056	R1TVY7QLQGHZ1	1563893908	983272618	Batman: Dark Knight Dynasty (Batman Beyond (DC Comics))	Books	5	13	13	N	N	&quot;I win again. I always win&quot;	Batman: Dark Knight Dynasty is a great read for any Batman fan looking for something different. This is an Elseworlds tale, meaning that its events have absolutely no effect/impact on mainstream continuity. The story features three generations of the Wayne family who must don a bat-costume to thwart the machinations of the immortal Vandal Savage. One tale takes place during the Crusades, another takes place in present time (although it's not quite the Bruce Wayne we know), and the final arc throws readers into the distant future where humans co-exist alongside talking monkeys. The stories also feature re-imagined versions of Catwoman and the Scarecrow.<br />Each chapter is presented in its own distinctive artwork, from the beautifully painted &quot;Dark Past&quot; to the digitally coloured &quot;Dark Present&quot; to the semi-sketchy &quot;Dark Future.&quot; Vandal Savage  is a wonderful foe, and definitely earns his place as one of DC's elite villains; how do you stop a madman that can regenerate destroyed flesh and survive a freefall from space? Each &quot;Bat-man&quot; (and Bat-woman) gives the fight all they've got - and sometimes even that isn't enough.<br />Dark Knight Dynasty, due to its Elseworlds status, is a relatively obscure title that'll probably be passed over by most fans. But do yourself a favour and get a copy of this stand-alone story, it's well-worth the effort.	2004-02-09
US	49883056	RMTIV12A38TZX	1591820162	535885745	Love Hina, Vol. 5	Books	4	3	3	N	N	The fun in the sun has begun	Book 4 of the Love Hina series ended with Naru realizing that her former crush, Keitaro's boss Seta, had returned to Japan. Now in book 5, Naru struggles to sort out her feelings for Keitaro and Seta as the gang hits the beach for the summer.<br />The first half of this book works the best, as the gang goes to a summer festival, works at Haruka's seaside cafe, and does their own screwy rendition of Saiyuki, a famous Oriental myth/legend. Some classic bits include Motoko's martial arts battle with Seta, Naru's role as Goku the monkey, and Shinobu accidentally kicking Keitaro in his \\"delicate place.\\"<br />While I wouldn't say the second half of the book was bad, it definitely comes off as disappointing after the gang returns from the beach. Motoko gets a good story about her kendo training, but the rest feels unusually pointless. Shinobu's story about her first kiss comes off as embarassing, while Kitsune's prank in the last story only sets back the progress of Keitaro and Naru's relationship. This is also the first time Su transforms into an adult, and it's something I wish Ken Akamatsu had never included, as it doesn't get much developement throughout the series. The anime highlights this part of Su much better, and I would've been completely lost if I hadn't watched it first. All in all, while I don't mind stand-alone, \\"day-in-the-life\\" filler stories, at this point they should be much better and maybe even have a running theme.<br />Speaking of the anime, there's one scene that I feel it does much better than the manga, and that is the kiss under the fireworks. Naru's misunderstanding here (which results in Keitaro being punched yet again) just doesn't work for me, and it feels like a cheap trick to prolong the series instead of letting the characters get their feelings out. While the mood is also spoiled in the anime version, it's due to a third character's interference, and even without the kiss, you know that Naru and Keitaro shared a meaningful moment. Here, the moment is completely spoiled.<br />Book 5 starts out with a five-star adventure on the beach, but drops to a three after the characters get back. Because of that, I'm giving this one four stars.moment is completely spoiled.<br />Book 5 starts out with a five-star adventure on the beach, but drops to a three after the characters get back. Because of that, I'm giving this one four stars.	2003-08-19
US	49883056	R3B0IKJ1WH05T4	1569319014	678791974	One Piece, Vol. 1: Romance Dawn	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Finally, we're on the cruise!	I'm surprised at how long its taken for One Piece to finally make a debut in the United States, especially considering its got over 140 anime episodes, 27 volumes of manga, video games, plushies, and just about every sort of tie-in the Japanese can come up with. Plus, the concept is a lot more original than the \\"catch em all\\" anime trash that has flooded North America over the past few years. If the reason for this delay is because One Piece can occasionally get violent to the point where characters bleed (sometimes ridiculously so, but only for effect), then one only has to realize that in Japan this series is aimed at the Pokemon demographic to see how far behind we in America are with censorship. Get over it already, and bring on the anime!<br />But anyways, for those who've never heard of One Piece, the best comparison I can make is to the LucasArts Monkey Island computer game series. Both take liberties with the pirate age, mixing it with modern trappings and sensabilities for great comedy and adventure. Long ago, a great pirate named Gold Roger was executed, but not before leaving behind a cryptic message for people to find his treasure. Whoever finds his \\"one piece\\" will become the next king of pirates. Enter Monkey D. Luffy, a young boy who has eaten the gum-gum fruit, and has gained the ability to stretch his limbs and become the ultimate rubber man. Because of a promise made to his childhood hero, the Red-Haired pirate Shanks, Luffy sets out to become the king of pirates. In this volume, he runs into a bounty hunter named Roronoa Zoro, a pirate thief named Nami, rescues a town from a corrupt Marine Captain with an axe-hand, and prepares for a fight with a clown pirate (to be continued in volume 2).<br />Having seen the chinese version of the manga and some fansubbed episodes, the story always follows a strict formula, like every long-running series. Luffy and company come upon a town that needs help, fight the local tyrant/pirate until they eventually win, and move on. However, something new is added each time, and the series, if a little dragged out, never becomes boring. The art is simple but effective, and the character designs get wackier and wackier as the series progresses. Plus there's a lot of great character development, with some genuinely touching backgrounds for Luffy and his crew. If you've got the money and are in the mood to read a long-running manga title, you can't go wrong with One Piece.and move on. However, something new is added each time, and the series, if a little dragged out, never becomes boring. The art is simple but effective, and the character designs get wackier and wackier as the series progresses. Plus there's a lot of great character development, with some genuinely touching backgrounds for Luffy and his crew. If you've got the money and are in the mood to read a long-running manga title, you can't go wrong with One Piece.	2003-08-02
US	49883056	R1SD7OTQKE5MGR	1591821169	477657453	Love Hina, Vol. 10	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Not quite what it could've been...	You have to realize that on the Love Hina scale, a rating of 3/5 stars means that I'll be reading this one 70 times over instead of 100. The book is still lots of fun, as is every book in the series, but #10 tries to squeeze in some new plot developments and revelations, but isn't quite successful in doing so.<br />The first half of the book deals with Keitaro, Naru, and Mutsumi's return to Okinawa, all part of Mutsumi's plan to get the two lovebirds together. An accident happens, and Mutsumi loses her memory. In order for her to get it back, Keitaro must pretend to marry her (I forget how this works exactly, but it's basically a plot device to make Naru jealous and uncomfortable). As Mutsumi relives her childhood, some long-forgotten memories resurface.<br />Frankly, I'm getting a little tired of Ken Akamatu's snippets of what really happened with the childhood promise. They were fun at first, but now they seem slightly jumbled and incoherent (a common problem with memories, but this is still a narrative here). I hope we get a full flashback before the series ends, because at the moment these glimpses aren't very satisfying. On the flip side, this particular glimpse offers a very touching moment in itself. And for those who have seen the anime, I'm guessing that if the wind-up doll doesn't actually appear in the manga, this is the inspiration for her story, since it ends on the same bittersweet note.<br />Another chapter deals with Su and her transformations into an adult when a red moon appears. This is another story arc that has been woefully underdeveloped. It worked fine in the anime, where it was given more development and the sci-fi/fantasy aspects of the series were played up, but so far in ten books we've only gotten 2 transformations and 1 more mention of Su's brother. I hope we get more with the last few books, but since those should focus on the Keitaro/Naru relationship and a new character, Kanako, I highly doubt it.<br />The last arc deals with Keitaro and his decision to follow his dreams and go with Seta to study overseas for half a year. This should've been the main focus of the book, as it will lead to events that further develop and change Keitaro, not to mention impacting the rest of Hinata House. However, here the development given is adequate, but could've been better. The Mutsumi arc should've been shortened to develop this one. As it is, Keitaro's decision comes completely out of left-field. Maybe this was the intention, but it didn't work for me.<br />Some important plot points in this one, but the execution could've been better. Still worth picking up, though.and his decision to follow his dreams and go with Seta to study overseas for half a year. This should've been the main focus of the book, as it will lead to events that further develop and change Keitaro, not to mention impacting the rest of Hinata House. However, here the development given is adequate, but could've been better. The Mutsumi arc should've been shortened to develop this one. As it is, Keitaro's decision comes completely out of left-field. Maybe this was the intention, but it didn't work for me.<br />Some important plot points in this one, but the execution could've been better. Still worth picking up, though.	2003-07-03
US	49883056	R2XB5N1WHX1797	1591821177	337782134	Love Hina Volume 11	Books	5	3	3	N	N	The new girl in the harem	You knew it had to happen. With just three books left to go, the Lova Hina saga is slowly winding down and coming to an end. And like a good television soap opera, one final new character is introduced, bringing with them startling new revelations to shake up the ongoing plot one last time before the big hurrah. In this case, that character would be Kanako Urashima, the little sister of our hero Keitaro.<br />It's fitting, actually. Remembering how Love Hina basically runs through the archtypes for female personalities (the indecisive love interest, the pre-teen princess, the foreign girl, the ditz, the man-hater, the brat, the party girl, the older woman), what's the last archtype we haven't run into? That's right, the blood relative. Fortunately, since Kanako isn't Keitaro's sister by blood, it's not as bad as it sounds, and let's the series' most perverted fans play out their incestous fantasies without actually crossing the line. Character-wise, Kanako is completely different from the other members of the harem; she's completely obsessed with her step-brother, which makes her more than a little insane, and not in the funny, laughable way the other girls are. She has a huge bag of tricks and costumes, and is an expert ventriloquist (no, the cat does not talk, though the anime interprets it that way). For the first time, the gang has a true antagonist, and it'll be interesting to see how the tension plays out once Keitaro is re-established in Hinata House (he's gone overseas with Seta for the majority of the book).<br />At the same time however, Kanako gets some subtle character development. She wants to fit in, though she's cautious and not very trusting. She has an undying loyalty to her step-brother, and is the only one that loved him even before he improved himself (which in turn shows us the better side of Keitaro when he was still a loser klutz). She is also probably aware that her love for her brother is incest (though *technically* it isn't), and aware of the implications that come with this. Add Ken Akamtasu's playful (yet sometimes annoying) brief hints of a shrouded past and yet another childhood promise, and Kanako makes a worthy addition to the Hinata harem.<br />Since the whole book is about Kanako's introduction, it has a reasonably tighter and stronger pacing, which makes it a more involving read. My only gripe is that the main plotlines, such as the Naru/Keitaro relationship, and even the Haruka/Seta relationship are completely put on hold. However, there is a really nice character moment in the opening airport scene that makes up for this, and Kanako's inclusion in the series is basically the catalyst that will eventually get Naru and Keitaro together. Don't worry, nothing's been forgotten.<br />Those who hate this volume will probably enjoy it a lot more once the series is complete, and they see how Kanko fits into the overall scheme of things. For everyone else, vol 11 shakes things up, dares to be different, and is a great success. However, it's also a reminder that Love Hina is coming to an end.the implications that come with this. Add Ken Akamtasu's playful (yet sometimes annoying) brief hints of a shrouded past and yet another childhood promise, and Kanako makes a worthy addition to the Hinata harem. <br />Since the whole book is about Kanako's introduction, it has a reasonably tighter and stronger pacing, which makes it a more involving read. My only gripe is that the main plotlines, such as the Naru/Keitaro relationship, and even the Haruka/Seta relationship are completely put on hold. However, there is a really nice character moment in the opening airport scene that makes up for this, and Kanako's inclusion in the series is basically the catalyst that will eventually get Naru and Keitaro together. Don't worry, nothing's been forgotten.<br />Those who hate this volume will probably enjoy it a lot more once the series is complete, and they see how Kanko fits into the overall scheme of things. For everyone else, vol 11 shakes things up, dares to be different, and is a great success. However, it's also a reminder that Love Hina is coming to an end.	2003-07-03
US	49883056	RDCEXHME87X9U	034542882X	938075605	Star Wars, Episode II: Attack of the Clones	Books	2	2	4	N	N	The movie in text form	I once read a review that said \\"The Phantom Menace\\" novelization was merely another cash-in for the movie, and in a way that was true. Movie novelizations don't try to tell new, exciting storylines or anything original - they exist so you can shell out more cash to read in text form what you paid money to see in theaters and on DVD. Occasionally, the better novels include deleted scenes, alternate versions, and internal character thought for added depth. R.A. Salvatore's book version of Attack of the Clones tries to do all this, yet it is still not very successful.<br />I'm not sure what went wrong. Salvatore is a strong author - I enjoyed his other Star Wars novel, Vector Prime, immensely. Here though, he is reduced to simply writing out each line of dialogue and providing bare-bones narration for the action in between. Words are said and things are done, but none of it really resonates. Character thoughts are brief flashes that don't let you get that much deeper into their mind, and the battle scenes are written in such a way that they accurately describe what's going on without demanding or even asking for your emotional involvement. Imagine plopping Attack of the Clones into your DVD player/VCR, sitting down on the couch with a laptop, and frantically typing out the story as it appears onscreen. Afterwards you go back and drop some extra lines in here and there. The end result would be this novel.<br />The only thing that slightly redeems this novel are the opening chapters that expand on the Shmi/Cliegg/Owen family unit. I'm almost certain that Salvatore wrote these himself, as it's too much exposition to have been put in the screenplay. Nevertheless, here the characters feel warm, real, and developed, and where Salvatore's true skill comes through. These chapters are exactly the kind of material that make a good movie-to-novel adaptation, by filling in an expanding on people we didn't get a chance to really know in the movie. If the rest of the book could've featured the same depth, I would've liked it a lot better.<br />Die-hard fans will probably want this in their collection, just for completeness, and for the bonus storyboards included (no doubt an attempt to get people who bought the hardcover to shell out again for a few pages of new stuff). For everyone else, there's a wealth of Star Wars published material out there that is much better than this, starting with R.A. Salvatore's Vector Prime.eatured the same depth, I would've liked it a lot better.<br />Die-hard fans will probably want this in their collection, just for completeness, and for the bonus storyboards included (no doubt an attempt to get people who bought the hardcover to shell out again for a few pages of new stuff). For everyone else, there's a wealth of Star Wars published material out there that is much better than this, starting with R.A. Salvatore's Vector Prime.	2003-06-18
US	49883056	R2XJ4RWYQESA5Y	1931514976	698548698	Love Hina, Volume 2	Books	3	6	7	N	N	Fun, but ultimately still filler	If you're a big Love Hina fan like I am, you'll probably end up buying every book anyway, and there's nothing wrong with that - all of them are hilariously written (translated), drawn, and feature the same great characters that you love.<br />However, in the grand scheme of the series, nothing of real importance happens in book 2. Naru and Keitaro take the Tokyu U exam, and Keitaro begins to believe Naru might be his promised girl, but all of this is pretty much negated at the beginning of book 3 (hey, the series lasts another 12 volumes! these things take time). What book 2 does end up being is a collection of \\"day in the life of\\" stories. If the job of book 1 was to introduce the characters, book 2 further fleshes them out and shows us a typical day, so that Ken Akamatsu can shake up the formula later (trip to Kyoto, introduction of Seta, etc). It also allows him to rehash jokes later on, after Keitaro has gotten more familiar with the Love Hina gang (the Guri-Choco). All of this is fine, but it's not very memorable - I'd have trouble telling friends what book 2 was mainly about if they asked.<br />Those wishing to read Love Hina in order may wish to purchase book 3 at the same time, which introduces the fan-favourite Mutsumi and is better at developing the overall plot. Those who are short on money or have seen the anime may wish to come back to book 2 after reading the later, more relevant installments.	2003-05-28
US	49883056	R1PZLP5C9Y93PB	0930289943	531687427	Batman: Tales of the Demon	Books	2	3	10	N	N	Disappointing	I am a huge Batman fan, and more specifically, a huge fan of Batman's immortal nemesis, Ra's Al Ghul. After trying to hunt down this volume of collected tales for over a year, when I finally picked it up, I felt very disappointed. While the collected stories provide an interesting look into Batman's second-greatest foe (next to the Joker), their presentation leaves much to be desired.<br />More specifically, I never felt like I read any one, complete story. I have to think it was the way comic books were written at the time, and not that pages were edited out, but some stories begin with little to no exposition, or end way too quickly. At one point, Talia, beautiful daughter of Ra's, kisses Batman. Without dialogue or expository balloons, the story abruptly ends, and the next page sees a mysterious box being brought into Wayne manor. Another story has Batman automatically chasing Ra's from snow-covered mountains to the desert, with little explanation of his travels in between. In short, there's very little sense of closure and continuity, and it becomes irritating. On top of that, the pages of each story vary in length. This is also irritating because today's comic books have a set number of pages, and in the end I felt like I didn't read my money's worth of stories.<br />That said, there are some highlights for Ra's and Batman fans. Ra's was designed at a time when the campy approach was being phased out and the darker, brooding Batman was being brought in. What we have here is a mix, a Batman who sometimes scares his enemies in one frame and gives quirky, &quot;Stan Lee&quot; asides in the next. Definitely an interesting combination. The artwork is also pretty good, with more vibrant colors than some collected volumes I have of later comics. Lastly, for fans who have watched all the Ra's Al Ghul episodes of the animated series, they get to see where the original stories for &quot;Veritgo&quot; and &quot;The Demon's Quest&quot; come from. Ra's Al Ghul's duel with Batman in the desert, the kidnapping of Robin, Batman and Talia's final kiss - it's all here. Unfortunately, the animated series really did a much better job reinterpreting the material, and even though the panels are fun to see, they come off as a disappointment.<br />Tales of the Demon isn't a very good collected volume. There are better, cheaper volumes avaliable, and even fans of Ra's Al Ghul will probably want to skip this one.atman in the desert, the kidnapping of Robin, Batman and Talia's final kiss - it's all here. Unfortunately, the animated series really did a much better job reinterpreting the material, and even though the panels are fun to see, they come off as a disappointment.<br />Tales of the Demon isn't a very good collected volume. There are better, cheaper volumes avaliable, and even fans of Ra's Al Ghul will probably want to skip this one.	2002-11-06
US	49883056	R8WTDHWJD0B5E	0553576119	469367834	Darksaber (Star Wars)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Quick, Fast, and Action-Packed	Kevin J. Anderson is probably the most controversial writer in the Star Wars Expanded Universe. On one hand, he has been instrumental in mapping out the early course of the series, with novels, anthologies, and comic books. On the other hand, fans have taken a notable dislike towards Anderson's writing style, and his repeated use of superweapons.<br />Darksaber is vintage Anderson, and like everything else the author has done, is very much a love it or hate it piece of work. Darksaber's focus is divided several ways, but centers on two main plots. On one front, Admiral Daala teams up with Gilad Pellaeon, a character from the Zahn novels. They kill the rogue Imperial commanders, consolidate the navy, and prepare to attack the Jedi Academy on Yavin 4. On the other front, Durga the Hutt steals the Death Star plans and sets to work on building his own version, known as the Darksaber.<br />Both plots are fairly standard, and by themselves couldn't support a full-length novel, but work well enough when combined together. Yes, a fifth superweapon (two deaths stars, a prototype, sun crusher, and now darksaber) seems kind of ludicrious, but it's something I could picture an over-ambitious Hutt concieving, so I'll let it slide (if the Empire had created it, then no). Both Daala and Pellaeon have both played major roles in the saga, so it's nice to see them interact for a bit of continuity. Now besides these two threats, other varying subplots weave themselves throughout the novel. Wedge continues his relationship with Qui; Luke tries to help Callista rediscover her force powers; Dorsk 81, with Kyp Durron's help, must accept the fact that his path as a Jedi is different from those of his people, a race of clones. Bevel Lemelisk reflects on his employment with Tarkin, the Emperor, and a young slave named Ackbar. Finally, Crix Madine, a largely underused character, gets some major action and development.<br />Does it sound like a lot? It is. There is a new chapter every few pages, as we jump to a new set of characters, a new planet, a new situation. Strangely though, everything recieves an adequate amount of development. While Anderson's writing isn't as deep as Zahn's (at times it's bare-bones narration) it's still to his credit that none of the plot threads are left behind. At a time when many Star Wars book cycle could be compressed into one volume (Bounty Hunter Wars comes to mind), Anderson gives us exactly that. And, as one would expect from so many plot threads, the book never becomes boring.<br />Still, while I can forgive the overuse of superweapons, Anderson's exaggeration of the abilities of the force can't be overlooked. When Yoda said \\"size matters not\\" I'm sure he didn't mean that the force could throw a whole fleet of star destroyers into deep space, especially not when harnessed by a group of trainees. And despite all the tools at her disposal, Daala still isn't a credible threat.<br />This isn't a deep, insightful Star Wars book by any means, in fact with so much going on, it can feel cartoony at times. But if you want a quick read with enough action, adventure, and romance for three novels, Darksaber is for you., as we jump to a new set of characters, a new planet, a new situation. Strangely though, everything recieves an adequate amount of development. While Anderson's writing isn't as deep as Zahn's (at times it's bare-bones narration) it's still to his credit that none of the plot threads are left behind. At a time when many Star Wars book cycle could be compressed into one volume (Bounty Hunter Wars comes to mind), Anderson gives us exactly that. And, as one would expect from so many plot threads, the book never becomes boring.<br />Still, while I can forgive the overuse of superweapons, Anderson's exaggeration of the abilities of the force can't be overlooked. When Yoda said \\"size matters not\\" I'm sure he didn't mean that the force could throw a whole fleet of star destroyers into deep space, especially not when harnessed by a group of trainees. And despite all the tools at her disposal, Daala still isn't a credible threat.<br />This isn't a deep, insightful Star Wars book by any means, in fact with so much going on, it can feel cartoony at times. But if you want a quick read with enough action, adventure, and romance for three novels, Darksaber is for you.	2002-09-25
US	49883056	R2CH2M44YDPDMC	034542865X	707181604	Traitor (Star Wars: The New Jedi Order, Book 13)	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Essential Jedi Philosphy	This book had, in my opinion, so many factors playing against it. First, there was the fact that it was the other half of the unofficial \\"Solo twins duology\\", and it's companion book, \\"Dark Journey\\" was an anti-climatic and skippable read. We had a talented author who was unproven in the Star Wars universe, and like previous reviews have mentioned, didn't have a \\"special thanks\\" page, which, to be honest, kind of hurt his credibility. Said author used only six characters, far less than what we're used to. Not only did the story have to be engaging in its philosphical discussions, it also had to redeem a character, who, in the eyes of many fans, has done nothing but whine and hold back since the series started. Very much a make or break situation. And lastly, all of the above had to be done in less than 300 pages.<br />Well, Matthew Stover succeeded brilliantly.<br />With the focus primarily on Jacen Solo and Vergere, there is ample room for character development. We can see Jacen's evolution from whining brat into something much deeper, and judging from the cover art of the next installment, he'll play a crucial part in turning the war. LIke his sister, Jacen also has a close encounter with the Dark Side, though it is much darker than Jaina's was. Vergere is herself a darker version of Yoda, a mentor, trickster, and companion who knows that to defeat the Vong is to embrace their pain and let it develop into a higher understanding. Lastly, there is an appearance by Ganner Rhysode, who also finds new maturity here. Hands-down, Ganner gets the coolest scene and coolest line in the book, when Stover borrows a classic scene from a certain 1st installment of everyone's favourite fantasy movie trilogy.<br />Of course, the bulk of this book is dedicated to philosphy and force-related discussion. While none of this stuff is completely new (what makes a flower different from a weed, what makes it okay to kill, etc), it actually serves a purpose instead of endlessly going around in circles for its own sake, which would have been a cheap way out. Each new thought puzzle brings Jacen to a higher level of understanding, and I can only imagine the task Stover and Lucasfilm had of mapping these parts out. The force is redefined here as a whole that is neither light nor dark, and it's interesting to think of the long way we've come, and where this will ultimately lead. Finally, Stover gives us a taste of how Lucasfilm eventually plans to link the prequel era to the New Jedi Order. I won't spoil it, but it'll definitely leave you begging for more.<br />Unlike past novels that featured important plot points in the series (death of Chewie, death of Anakin, etc.), \\"Traitor\\" is in itself a huge, cleverly disguised plot point. It is from this that future interpertations of the force will be defined, making it an essential read.in circles for its own sake, which would have been a cheap way out. Each new thought puzzle brings Jacen to a higher level of understanding, and I can only imagine the task Stover and Lucasfilm had of mapping these parts out. The force is redefined here as a whole that is neither light nor dark, and it's interesting to think of the long way we've come, and where this will ultimately lead. Finally, Stover gives us a taste of how Lucasfilm eventually plans to link the prequel era to the New Jedi Order. I won't spoil it, but it'll definitely leave you begging for more.<br />Unlike past novels that featured important plot points in the series (death of Chewie, death of Anakin, etc.), \\"Traitor\\" is in itself a huge, cleverly disguised plot point. It is from this that future interpertations of the force will be defined, making it an essential read.	2002-09-15
US	49883056	R30J6DVEB993SM	0345379802	873177288	The Han Solo Adventures: Han Solo at Stars' End / Han Solo's Revenge / Han Solo and the Lost Legacy (A Del Rey book)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	A smuggler, a wookiee, thier ship, and deep space	While the craze surrounding the Star Wars novels didn't kick off until Timmothy Zahn released his masterpiece in 1991, a small handful of spin-off adventures were published in the late 70's: Alan Dean Foster's &quot;Splinter of the Mind's Eye&quot;, L. Neil Smith's &quot;The Adventures of Lando Calrissian&quot;, and Brian Daley's &quot;The Han Solo Adventures.&quot; Today, reader reaction to the first two authors is fairly mixed, but &quot;The Han Solo Adventures&quot; continues to be worthy Star Wars entertainment, often overlooked in favor of more recent publications.<br />&quot;The Han Solo Adventures&quot; (THSA) collects Daley's three mini novels and sells them for the price of one, a true bargain. The stories detail Han and Chewbacca's adventures in a part of the galaxy known as the Corporate Sector, which is controled by The Authority. To be honest, I'm not sure why Daley didn't use the Empire. I can only imagine the puzzled reader reaction during the books' initial publications when Han and Chewie did not fight Stormtroopers, but Espos guards, and the like. In hindsight though, the different enemies are a refreshing change of pace, considering the numerous recent SW publications featuring the Empire as villains.<br />THSA capture the saturday matinee effect Lucas was looking for. Each story is action-packed and to the point. The plots also have a matinee-feel to them, with titles to match (revenge = Han Solo's Revenge, treasure hunting = Han Solo and the Lost Legacy, daring escapes = Han Solo at Stars' End). To put it in a more modern perspective, it's a lot like reading three episodes of a Han Solo television series, where each story is a stand-alone adventure, and Han already knows some of the supporting case from previous adventures the viewer missed. Brian Daley's captures Han and Chewie perfectly, but it's his writing style that's the cincher. Daley's writing feel modern, like the stories were written yesterday. He deserves lots of credit for knowing what works in the Star Wars universe and what doesn't, especially at a time when no one had really fleshed out the details. True, a couple of things are off, (currency is called cash instead of credits), but this *IS* the Corporate Sector, and besides, Daley also gives reader's Z-95 Headhunters, Swoop bikes, and many other canon SW references. My one complaint about Daley's writing is that there can be too much description at times, leaving the reader slightly confused or wondering what the point is. Once or twice, there might not even be a point, such as a single chapter devoted to Chewie building a flying contraption to protect the Falcon. On a whole though, the writing style is on par with noted SW authors like R.A. Salvatore and Kathy Tyers, so it's a minor complaint.<br />If you're still not sure about reading THSA, pick up A.C. Crispin's newer Han Solo trilogy first. The last book sets up Han's reasons for being in the Corporate Sector, and as a whole, the two trilogies mesh seamlessly together for a thrilling mini-saga. THSA are a definite read for the true SW fan.hat works in the Star Wars universe and what doesn't, especially at a time when no one had really fleshed out the details. True, a couple of things are off, (currency is called cash instead of credits), but this *IS* the Corporate Sector, and besides, Daley also gives reader's Z-95 Headhunters, Swoop bikes, and many other canon SW references. My one complaint about Daley's writing is that there can be too much description at times, leaving the reader slightly confused or wondering what the point is. Once or twice, there might not even be a point, such as a single chapter devoted to Chewie building a flying contraption to protect the Falcon. On a whole though, the writing style is on par with noted SW authors like R.A. Salvatore and Kathy Tyers, so it's a minor complaint. <br />If you're still not sure about reading THSA, pick up A.C. Crispin's newer Han Solo trilogy first. The last book sets up Han's reasons for being in the Corporate Sector, and as a whole, the two trilogies mesh seamlessly together for a thrilling mini-saga. THSA are a definite read for the true SW fan.	2002-08-02
US	49883056	R1SITFFDWIW5WQ	0553574175	259159170	Rebel Dawn (Star Wars: The Han Solo Trilogy, Book 3)	Books	5	12	14	N	N	Han's story concludes...or has it just begun?	After the classic Paradise Snare and the excellent but slightly flawed Hutt Gambit, A.C. Crispin ties everything together in the grande finale to the Han Solo Trilogy.<br />The main complaint about this book seems to be that out of all the seperate plots, it's Han who recieves the short end of the stick, and in a way, this is true. While the Hutts have their power struggle and Bria is busy helping build the Rebel Alliance, Han basically bounces around on different adventures and side quests that have nothing to do with one another. In fact, for a few chapters he even disappears into the corporate sector, and we only get brief snippets about him. However, this doesn't mean the book is boring. Exactly the opposite, we see Han in situations that set up the movies and the rest of the expanded universe, including how he won the Falcon, his meeting with Chewie's family, why he dislikes the Rebel Alliance, dumping the Kessel Run spice, and why Lando hates him so much in Episode V. After reading this novel, it really puts a whole new spin on their confrontation in Cloud City, to the point where the viewer believes Lando is seriously mad at Han. As for the corporate sector interludes, while they do detract from the novel, they blend seamlessly with Brian Daley's classic adventures. Lucas has said that his prequel trilogy needs to be seen as a whole to be fully enjoyed, and the same applies here.<br />Another chunk of the novel, like mentioned, revolves around Durga, Jilac, Jabba, and the Hutt power struggle. None of this has been mentioned before, so it's continually facinating. The Hutts are more fleshed out and articulate than they appear anywhere else, and the reader gains more respect for them. The relationship between Jabba and Han is expanded on, and thier meeting in the docking bay in the special edition makes more sense now; like a mafia don, Jabba was always friendly with Solo until he didn't pay him back. Also note another cool cameo, Prince Xizor and his droid replicant Guri.<br />By far the best parts of the novel are the scenes with Bria. This character has truly come full cricle, from an insecure addict to a tough Rebel officer. To clarify complaints from other reviewers, A.C. Crispin does not try and make Bria the founder of the Rebel Alliance, but does make her the agent who persuades all the groups to talk to Mon Mothma and Bel Iblis, who then cement the idea and make the treaty. If I have to make a complaint, it's that Crispin delays the reunion between Bria and Han for too long, especially after the circumstances Han found her in during The Hutt Gambit. But when the characters finally do reunite, after the accusations and anger have been let out, their romance is rich and powerful, reflecting their years of seperation. It's worthy of a John Williams score, the &quot;Luke and Leia&quot; theme from ROTJ being particularly effective. After the novel ends and the reader finds out why Han and Bria are ultimately seperated, one can't help but feel that, before he fell in love with Leia, the reason Han goes back to help Luke in ANH and become a rebel general is because of Bria's influence.<br />A fantastic, fast-paced read all around, with the major complaint being forgivable when the reader finds Brian Daley's books and realizes that everything in the SW universe is part of a greater whole. Not to be missed.eplicant Guri. <br />By far the best parts of the novel are the scenes with Bria. This character has truly come full cricle, from an insecure addict to a tough Rebel officer. To clarify complaints from other reviewers, A.C. Crispin does not try and make Bria the founder of the Rebel Alliance, but does make her the agent who persuades all the groups to talk to Mon Mothma and Bel Iblis, who then cement the idea and make the treaty. If I have to make a complaint, it's that Crispin delays the reunion between Bria and Han for too long, especially after the circumstances Han found her in during The Hutt Gambit. But when the characters finally do reunite, after the accusations and anger have been let out, their romance is rich and powerful, reflecting their years of seperation. It's worthy of a John Williams score, the &quot;Luke and Leia&quot; theme from ROTJ being particularly effective. After the novel ends and the reader finds out why Han and Bria are ultimately seperated, one can't help but feel that, before he fell in love with Leia, the reason Han goes back to help Luke in ANH and become a rebel general is because of Bria's influence. <br />A fantastic, fast-paced read all around, with the major complaint being forgivable when the reader finds Brian Daley's books and realizes that everything in the SW universe is part of a greater whole. Not to be missed.	2002-08-02
US	49883056	R165KR2EZTFCQ3	0553574167	829224834	The Hutt Gambit (Star Wars: The Han Solo Trilogy, Vol. 2)	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Another day, another gambit	A.C. Crispin continues to expand on the life of Han Solo in this excellent, second entry of her trilogy. The story picks up a few years after The Paradise Snare. Han has been kicked out the Imperial Navy for saving Chewbacca, and together the two travel to Nar Shaddaa and sign on to run spice for the Hutts. Along the way they meet Lando, Boba Fett, and Han gains some temporary new love intrests. The book culminates in a battle for the smuggler's moon when an Imperial Moff decides to clamp down on the illegal activity.<br />There are some major flaws in this book, making it the weak link of the trilogy, but a lot of it stems from the restrictions placed by Lucasfilm. By far the most disappointing part was that, after the hopeful ending of the last book, we don't get to see Han as an Imperial officer. This would have added another dimension to Solo's character, but appearantly Lucasfilm wouldn't allow that portion of the story to be told. As such, when Han goes to track down an old friend who was also kicked out of the service, the character doesn't feel properly fleshed out. The crucial story of Han saving Chewbacca is also told through bits and pieces without a full, satisfying narrative flashback. This is, next to Han obtaining the Falcon, the most important piece of the character's history, and Lucasfilm ruined Crispin's chance to tell it. Han's experiences at the academy could have made for a full novel in itself, or at least an extra hundred pages of The Hutt Gambit. As it stands, the book feels somewhat incomplete.<br />My only other criticism is that Crispin introduces Lando as a rookie pilot who saves Han so he can teach him how to fly. Again, I'm not sure if this was Lucasfilm's work or not, but this part of his characterization feels off. After all, Lando blew up the second Death Star, so shouldn't he already be a pretty strong pilot?<br />Other than those points, the book is still great. Crispin's writing style is smooth and absorbing, allowing for a very quick read. The subplots involving the Hutts conspiring against each other sets up Jabba's rise to power in the next book. We see a new side to the relationship between Han and Jabba, as Jabba pays to have the bounty on Han removed. Though we see little of Bria, her character seem to be constantly developing, and has now joined an underground resistance movement, which leads to the formation of the Rebel Alliance. Thankfully, Han's new love interests are welcome additions that don't take away from the main romance subplot between Han and Bria. They also reappear years later in other SW novels, for a cool bit of continuity. There is a cameo by Baron Fel, and another Star Wars fan favourite, though his dialogue feels like a cliched mix of his most famous lines from the movies.<br />Overall, while the Hutt Gambit is disappointing in the stuff Crispin was forced to leave out or skim over, it's still another great Star Wars book, and builds up suspense for the trilogy's final installment, Rebel Dawn.quick read. The subplots involving the Hutts conspiring against each other sets up Jabba's rise to power in the next book. We see a new side to the relationship between Han and Jabba, as Jabba pays to have the bounty on Han removed. Though we see little of Bria, her character seem to be constantly developing, and has now joined an underground resistance movement, which leads to the formation of the Rebel Alliance. Thankfully, Han's new love interests are welcome additions that don't take away from the main romance subplot between Han and Bria. They also reappear years later in other SW novels, for a cool bit of continuity. There is a cameo by Baron Fel, and another Star Wars fan favourite, though his dialogue feels like a cliched mix of his most famous lines from the movies.<br />Overall, while the Hutt Gambit is disappointing in the stuff Crispin was forced to leave out or skim over, it's still another great Star Wars book, and builds up suspense for the trilogy's final installment, Rebel Dawn.	2002-08-02
US	49883056	R1Q0UJWVHV53O2	0590477412	479187489	Deep Trouble (Goosebumps)	Books	1	1	4	N	N	Don't judge this book by it's cover	Don't judge this book by it's cover, and I mean that as negatively as I can. This is not a story about hammerhead sharks or others predators of the deep. If it had been, it might have been one of the coolest Goosebumps books ever. No, this is a story about *mermaids*.<br />Yes, mermaids. I'm not sure what R.L. Stine was thinking, especially when a story set in the oceans could have opened up so many \\"Jaws-esque\\" storylines. Maybe the publishers thought the violence of shark attacks would have been pushing the envelope for children? In any case, after feeling extremely cheated by the cover, you'll find out that there isn't much of a story here, either. Not all Goosebumps books have to be scary to be good, but this one doesn't even feature humour or interesting characters. We have the tweedy ocean scientist (named Dr. Deep for irony I guess), his eager, twenty-something assistant, our narrator, and his bratty sister. After capturing a mermaid, they put her in a tank, study her, and eventually some thugs board their ship to steal her. Human thieves? If you're going to introduce something supernatural like a mermaid, couldn't the final threat have involved a giant, underwater monster? Heck, even something like the sea witch (mermaid gone bad) from The Little Mermaid would have been better.<br />This book is a disappointment from the first page to the last. If nothing else, the dying Goosebumps fad insures that this book won't be on shelves, and kids won't be swindled into buying this dreck based on the cover.	2002-07-26
US	49883056	R38RZDG9PDS74E	0553574159	611556484	The Paradise Snare (Star Wars, The Han Solo Trilogy #1) (Book 1)	Books	5	12	13	N	N	Every scoundrel has a beginning...	This is truly one of the best Star Wars books I have ever read, and I'd place it right at the top alongside Timmothy Zahn and Aaron Allston. I started reading this book late at night, stayed up till two in the morning, and immediately finished it when i woke up the next day. Though many Star Wars books have been great reads, I can barely recall any that have had this kind of &quot;must read&quot; effect on me.<br />Within the first few pages, Crispin nails Han Solo's character and draws us into his world of pickpocket gangs, scams, and later spice smuggling and piloting. Han is so well written that you could imagine a younger Harrison Ford delivering the lines. Throughout the course of the novel, Crispin gives us the set up for some of Han's ideologies later in life: his reason for saving Chewbacca, his disdain for hokey religions, his inability to tell later Leia he loves her, and much more. For fans of continuity, take note: in the early chapters Crispin blends in two events, one from a Zahn novel and the other from &quot;Tales of the Bounty Hunters&quot;. See if you can find them!<br />The supporting characters are written just as convincingly, and the reader really grows attached to them over the course of the novel. For a new alien race, Muuurgh the Togarian is nicely introduced and integrated. He never feels out of place, and becomes a sort of predecessor to Chewbacca without becoming a &quot;clone&quot; of him. While Muuurgh honors a life debt similiar to Chewbacca, he is unique because he has other motivations besides watching Han, which is to find his lost mate. The other new character is Bria, Han's love interest. Bria is also not a Leia &quot;clone.&quot; She's strong-willed and capable, but her addiction to a mind-influencing cult (a very well written part of the novel I must say) makes her unique, and her character is constantly evolving. Add in a beautiful rendition of the character on the cover, and you really have someone worthy of Han's affections. Since we know Han makes it to the movies without Bria and Muuurgh, both characters are in constant danger of being killed off, and I was on the edge of my seat (bed) during one escape scene. Congrats to Crispin for providing the most tension-filled scene I've read in any Star Wars novel (Darth Maul: Shadow Hunter comes in a close second).<br />This is a brilliant book, and I'm sorry that I didn't read it sooner. Much better than most of the prequel novels and New Jedi Order, as soon as I finished the Paradise Snare I immediately wanted to go out and buy the rest of the Trilogy. I hope Crispin writes more Star Wars in the future.Since we know Han makes it to the movies without Bria and Muuurgh, both characters are in constant danger of being killed off, and I was on the edge of my seat (bed) during one escape scene. Congrats to Crispin for providing the most tension-filled scene I've read in any Star Wars novel (Darth Maul: Shadow Hunter comes in a close second).<br />This is a brilliant book, and I'm sorry that I didn't read it sooner. Much better than most of the prequel novels and New Jedi Order, as soon as I finished the Paradise Snare I immediately wanted to go out and buy the rest of the Trilogy. I hope Crispin writes more Star Wars in the future.	2002-07-20
US	49883056	R36M8W21N8G2VP	0425081621	694137922	Casino Royale	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Introducing James Bond	This is the first of Ian Flemming's original James Bond novels. James Bond is sent to the casino Royale in France, where he must outwit a Russian treasury agent at the gambling tables and humiliate him, forcing his superiors to retire him. The novel is a *very* fast read (I finished it in one single four-hour sitting), yet still very enjoyable and worth buying. Flemming fleshes out Bond really well, with a lot of attention to detail. There is a tension-filled baccarat scene, and Flemming even gives readers an effective, quickie tutorial on baccarat so they can properly enjoy it. For a spy story written in the fifties, this one doesn't feel dated in the least.<br />The only oddity about Casino Royale is the structure of the story. The story really ends about three quarters of the way into the book, and the remaining chapters detail Bond's recovery and subsequent romance with his assistant, Vesper. It's never boring, but I wish Flemming could have integrated the two aspects of the story in a more cohesive fashion.<br />Still, Casino Royale is an excellent novel, and a worthy introduction to James Bond. Every fan needs to read this one.	2002-07-13
US	49883056	R1WIFPQXSZZDTF	0345442970	164434464	Cloak of Deception (Star Wars)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Every Prequel has a Prequel	Star Wars: Cloak of Deception is one of the most intricate Star Wars novels I have ever read. The book goes into great detail about the events leading up to Episode One, including the Taxation of Trade Routes, the baseless accusations that Chancellor Valorum faced, how Nute Gunray and his lieutenants met Darth Sidious, and more. This book gives the reader a deeper understanding of just how seriously ill the Republic was, and the enormity of the problems in the senate.<br />While the book's plot is fast-paced and enjoyable, it's a more lesiurely read than most. Whereas I can usually polish off a Star Wars book in three to four days, \\"Cloak\\" took me a week to finish. The book does not hide the fact that it is more a political thriller than a regular Star Wars adventure, and the page-turning incentive isn't quite as high until towards the end, when the action kicks into high gear.<br />Still, James Luceno must be commended. In the hands of a lesser author, all the talk about politics and taxation would have come off dry and tedious. Here, even if the reader isn't quite sure what's going on, the dialogue between the characters feel so real, so natural, that one can't help but read on. Luceno captures all the characters from the movie PERFECTLY. From Qui-Gon to Yoda to Palpatine to Nute Gunray, you can hear their voices exactly like you were watching another movie. Many of the Jedi council members also speak, assuring fans that they weren't all mutes in the movies.<br />Star Wars fans will also love the little character cameos thrown in. While some only pop up for half a page of dialogue and feel blatent and jarring (think of movies that hire celebs for a bit part, and when you see them you go \\"Ohhhh! I know them!\\", completely taking you out of the movie), they tie in the overall saga rather nicely.<br />This is a great, well-written Star Wars book. It's different from most of the others, but reading it will make you respect Episode One just a little more.	2002-07-08
US	49883056	R2RMP9T3VUUCY	0590483528	479187489	The Cuckoo Clock of Doom (Goosebumps #28)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Fun and Suspenseful	It's been quite a few years since I've read this book, but my younger brother was searching for something to read from my collection, and I recommended this one to him. For me, the majority of the Goosebumps books were never scary - it was just a matter of if they had likeable characters and a good story.<br />Fortunately, \\"Cuckoo Clock of Doom\\" has both. Michael feels like a more fleshed out character than R.L. Stine's other protagonists: he has a crush on a girl, but his chances with her and with everything else in life are constantly ruined by his evil sister Tara. Tara isn't just a brat, she's written as pure evil, with no redeeming qualities, which only makes the reader sympathize with Michael even more.<br />The idea of \\"changing the past\\" has been used countless times, but it always works because everyone wishes they could do it. Michael tells us his mishaps in the beginning, so it becomes quite involving to see him try and evade the eventual outcomes later on. As the story progresses, it is not so much a matter of changing the past as it becomes a race against time to keep Michael from disappearing forever. The final few chapters, with the obligatory plot twist on the last page, are truly suspenseful and show R.L. Stine at his best.<br />Overall, this is a highly recommended book for grade-schoolers, and one parents should consider picking up if they see it. The Goosebumps fad has died out now so this one might be hard to find, but this is the kind of quick, light, reading that develops a child's imagination.	2002-05-08
US	49883056	R23HD5XH6AMEN2	0141301066	521556475	Matilda	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A Dahl Classic	...have been fond of Roald Dahl ever since I read \\"Charlie and the Chocolate Factory\\" in second grade, but I never got around to reading Matilda until now. This is a fantastic book, and is easily one of Dahl's best, with his trademark loveable, oddball characters and sense of invention and wonder...what startled me most about this book was that Dahl included some very mature themes in the final few chapters. Without giving away any plot twists (and believe me, there are some good ones here), the issue of child abuse is brought up. The characters don't dwell on it, but for a mature reader like myself who has seen children's entertainment deteriorate into mindless, sugar-coated garbage, it's refreshing to see such things mentioned. Young children will realize the seriousness of what is being said but won't be overtaken by it, which seems like the ideal way to make them aware of these issues. Thank you, Mr. Dahl, for reminding us of a time when children's stories could be both fun and meaningful.<br />On a lighter note, I'm getting more used to Quentin Blake's new illustrations. While I'd still prefer to see copies of Dahl's novels with their original drawings, Blake's style fits Matilda quite well, and even gives Miss Honey her due and makes her really pretty.<br />All in all, Matilda is a book for everyone, and adults will enjoy reading this book to their children.	2002-05-04
US	49883056	R1SG75EN8PJE8R	0930289455	837360744	Batman: The Killing Joke	Books	5	15	19	N	N	More than just a comic - True Literature	This is the most in-depth Batman comic I have ever read, and has become my favourite Batman story of all time. The story deals with Joker escaping, paralyzing Barbara Gordon, kidnapping Commissoner Gordon, and trying to prove that any man can go crazy in a single, bad day. As Batman hunts the Joker, the reader is treated to the Joker's origin story, and sees how thin the line is that seperates Batman from the Joker.<br />I won't try to get into the psychological aspects of this story -suffice it to say that other reviews have covered it throughly and any attempt on my part would only make me look foolish. However, I will say that the most chilling part about this book is how, if you replace Batman and the Joker with two everyday people, the events still feel horribly real. This is not escapist reading as all comic books have been labeled, in fact, this is the book to show people who don't believe that powerful stories can be told in this medium. Both Batman and the Joker had a single bad day - so why didn't Batman go insane like the Joker did? The reader wants to know the fine line that seperates these two characters, partly so they can realize how close to crossing that line they are in their own lives. The art is truly amazing -detailed, moody, and brilliantly inked - the scenes in the Joker's funhouse scare the reader as much as they scare Gordon. The flashbacks are also impressively tied into the present, with similiar situations bookending each scene. The story begins and ends on the same note, like a vicious, never-ending cycle. Plus, you know you have something special when, after all the vicious, sadistic things the Joker has done, you still feel sorry for him.<br />&quot;The Killing Joke&quot; is a true masterpiece, and earns its place as one of the best comics of all time, and a true work of fiction.	2002-03-14
US	49883056	R2BF18WKC8DSGK	1563891913	603288996	Batman: Knightfall, Part Three: KnightsEnd	Books	3	27	29	N	N	For fans only	The Knightsend compliation marked the end of a two-year story arc in the Batman comics, which began in Knightfall when Bane broke the Batman's back. After numerous adventures, the new Batman, Jean Paul Valley (Azbats) went over the edge and started killing, forcing Bruce Wayne to return and reclaim the mantle of the Bat. Knightsend chronicles Bruce's training under a ninja master and his final confrontation with the new Batman.<br />While Knightsend is good reading, this one is really for devoted Batman fans only. Like all compilations, a lot of the history is lost in various back issues and collections, so first-time readers won't feel the epic effect that Knightsend and its fellow story arcs had on the Batman saga. Also, while the story is based around the redemption of Jean Paul Valley, don't expect any in-depth literary themes or character studies, as have been in such Bat-titles like &quot;The Killing Joke&quot;. The story is action from start to finish, with very little else in between; in other words, it's a typical comic-book story, not the book you're going to use to convince your girlfriend why Batman comics are worth reading. Finally, and this is another fault of being a compilation, the story drags in places. Suspense is built when you read the story piece by piece, as they were originally published every two weeks or so, but when you read them in one go, you realize how some subplots were dragged out to fill up space in an issue.<br />Criticism aside though, Batman: Knightsend is still worth picking up, mainly because it does feature a pivotal point in the mythos. The art ranges from good to excellent; there is a minor continuity issue among the ninjas sent to attack Bruce, probably because some of the artists took creative license and altered their appearances, but this is a minor complaint. The individual dialogue boxes are excellently written, as is the norm for the folks who write the Batman comics.<br />If you're missing some parts to the story, or want to explore one of the most controversial story arcs in Bat-history, this is a must-have. Otherwise, I recommend picking up something more 'self-contained'.r want to explore one of the most controversial story arcs in Bat-history, this is a must-have. Otherwise, I recommend picking up something more 'self-contained'.	2002-03-14
US	49883056	RSR9FRTCHOD29	1563891018	501118476	Batman: Venom	Books	4	4	7	N	N	'Venom' Changed Me Forever	Back when I was around five or six my dad brought home a copy of Venom: Part 3, a free sample he recieved from a printing company. Venom stands out for me in many ways: It was one of the first three comic books I ever owned, the other two being Spider-Man. It introduced me to Batman, and I later traded in my Spider-Man comics for other Batman issues. It also included the most brutal, violent, death I had ever witnessed, and even today I still skip that page when I come to it. But reading 'Venom' changed me. I wouldn't go as far as to say it was mental scarring, but it was pretty dramatic nonetheless.<br />Unfortunately, as things turned out, I never got a chance to read the other parts of 'Venom' until well over a decade later. Dad may have given me my first comic, but he and mom weren't too keen on me constantly spending money on comic books. It wasn't until I had my own source of pocket money that I picked up the trade paperback.<br />As much as I want to give Venom five stars out of sentimental value, the story does have a few holes which bump it down a notch. The first two parts of the story are the best; Batman fails to save the life of a little girl, and his failure haunts him so badly that he decides to take strengh-enhancing pills to find the killers and bring them down. By part two, the pills have turned Batman into an amoral monster, which creates friction between him and Alfred. Part three marks Batman's attempt to cleanse himself, but besides the violent death I mentioned earlier, this part is merely transitional. The same goes for the fourth part, which finds Batman and Alfred tracking a rogue general and the creator of the pills to a small island called Santa Prisca. Part five fares much better, as Batman is put in a life or death trap, and must resist the temptation to use the pills during his escape. The artwork was standard fare for the 'Legends of the Dark Knight' series, but that book always had better artwork than the basic Batman titles, so there's no complaint here.<br />'Venom' might not be on par with other trade paperbacks such as &quot;The Killing Joke&quot; and &quot;Dark Knight Returns&quot;, but as a general rule, any Batman trade paperback is worth reading. Batman is one of the most human of all superheroes, but constantly tries to overcome his own flaws, which is what this story is about. Recommended read, just don't show part 3 to young, impressionable children!re's no complaint here. <br />'Venom' might not be on par with other trade paperbacks such as &quot;The Killing Joke&quot; and &quot;Dark Knight Returns&quot;, but as a general rule, any Batman trade paperback is worth reading. Batman is one of the most human of all superheroes, but constantly tries to overcome his own flaws, which is what this story is about. Recommended read, just don't show part 3 to young, impressionable children!	2002-01-09
US	49883056	R1M4MP506NBNLU	0553579037	74800541	Isard's Revenge (Star Wars, X-Wing #8)	Books	3	5	6	N	N	Rogue Squadron returns for an encore	After Allston's three-book cycle, Stackpole returns with another X-Wing book to tie up the loose ends from his previous novel, The Bacta War. While Isard's Revenge is an excellent read, I have to say that it's biggest strength is Stackpole's excellent writing style. His plot threads for this one are slightly lacking.<br />Isard's Revenge covers everything Stackpole has ever written on Rogue Squadron. This includes the novels AND the comics, for those who think Krennel was a one-shot character. While it's not really necessary to read the comics, they do supplement the book rather nicely. In fact, halfway through I actually went out and picked up the comics. The book picks up at the very end of Zahn's novel \\"The Last Command\\" (in fact, Tycho's dialogue is pulled word-for-word.) After the battle, the New Republic decides to go after the remaining Imperials, and choose Krennel as their target. Through a series of plot twists, Rogue Squadron is assumed dead, and teams up with Isard to destroy Krennel.<br />Stackpole's biggest problem has always been character development. He gets Corran, Gavin, and Wedge down just fine, but long-standing characters such as Inryi Forge and Ooryl are still releatively underdeveloped. Especially lacking is Hobbie; one would think that after been left out of seven X-Wing books, he would finally get some decent dialogue. Also, you can immediately pick out from the Dramatis Personne who dies and who lives. Stackpole has written himself into a corner in that he doesn't have any characters he's willing to sacrifice.<br />The plot and various sub-plots don't really kick in till halfway through the novel when Isard shows up. With that said, there's some really good stuff here, including Asyr and Borsk, the mini-adventure the droids have, and seeing Wedge finally get promoted to general. Stackpole has also learned to tighten his dogfight scenes, though the amount of description he puts into each and every exploding TIE Fighter can be overkill. There are times when simply stating \\"the TIE Fighter exploded in his viewport\\" will sufficed.<br />Isard's Revenge comes recommended because of Stackpole's writing style and the fact that it ties up the X-Wing series nicely. It may not quite be up to the standards of the previous books in the X-Wing series, especially when compared to the character development of Allston, but it is still superior to most Star Wars novels.e are times when simply stating \\"the TIE Fighter exploded in his viewport\\" will sufficed.<br />Isard's Revenge comes recommended because of Stackpole's writing style and the fact that it ties up the X-Wing series nicely. It may not quite be up to the standards of the previous books in the X-Wing series, especially when compared to the character development of Allston, but it is still superior to most Star Wars novels.	2001-11-28
US	49883056	R2EHJCRRMRKUA1	0345428641	501288398	Edge of Victory 1:  Conquest (Star Wars: The New Jedi Order)	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Anakin in the Spotlight	This was the second NJO book I'd picked up. The first of course was Vector Prime. While Vector Prime was not a complete success, I thought it was a strong opening for the NJO series, and I was hoping Conquest would be the same. It isn't. I cannot compare Conquest to other NJO books since I haven't read them, but I hope they're better than this. The main problem with the story was that it focused too much on Anakin. This creates several problems. The first is that it means minor plot lines aren't included. In the Star Wars universe, minor plot lines are very important. The issues concerning Luke and Talon Karrde could have been greatly expanded upon. Secondly, Anakin's adventures just weren't interesting enough to keep my attention for several chapters at a time. Furthermore, by distancing Anakin from the adult heroes of the Star Wars galaxy, the story is reduced to another Young Jedi Knights Adventure. While I generally enjoyed the stories from that series, they tended to paint the Solo kids as adolescents running around with lightsabers, and as such reduced the intensity of the threats directed towards them. In Vector Prime, we saw Anakin intereact with Luke and especially his father Han on a mature basis, and it developed Anakin's character. By keeping Anakin's involvement with the older generation to a minimum and maximizing his interactions with kids, Anakin fails to instill the maturity a 17-year old should have. My biggest disappointment however, was that fact that after I finished reading Conquest, I had no desire to read Rebirth, even though I had the book sitting on my shelf. To the book's credit though, the Vong are depicted in a much deeper fashion. Anakin teams up with an outcast, and we find out what make the Vong tick and a lot about their honor. Keyes writing style is commendable, but for the most part it has the simplicity of the Young Jedi Knights series. The parts where his true writing skills were visible were the scenes including Luke, Karrde, and cruelty of the Vong shapers, leading one to conclude that Keyes might have been better off writing a story based on the adult characters. Conquest is a fair read, and if you like Anakin Solo, by all means pick it up. However the book failed to get me excited about reading the sequel, and this singular story does not seem to carry any lasting impact on the NJO timeline.d cruelty of the Vong shapers, leading one to conclude that Keyes might have been better off writing a story based on the adult characters. Conquest is a fair read, and if you like Anakin Solo, by all means pick it up. However the book failed to get me excited about reading the sequel, and this singular story does not seem to carry any lasting impact on the NJO timeline.	2001-11-04
US	49883056	R2U9O3R696JA4P	0515128333	216120470	High Time to Kill	Books	5	1	2	N	N	I love this book	Having owned and virtually memorized all 19 official (and 1 unofficial) James Bond movies, I was curious about how the Bond of the novels would compare to the Bond of the movies. Flemming created James Bond to be every man's envy and every girl's dream, and as a result Bond has to be a three-dimensional character, yet lack a certain definition so that anyone could imagine themselves in his place. Fortunately, Benson pulls off both aspects very well. While it's clear Benson based his version of Bond and his story off the newer Brosnan stylings, High Time to Kill delves deeper into Bond's world than either Tomorrow Never Dies or The World is Not Enough. Here not only do we &quot;see&quot; Bond playing golf, but we also meet Bond's friends and rivals. There's also a scene where Bond and a henchman get into a fight in a bathroom. It's been ages since Bond scuffled hand-to-hand instead of blowing his opponents away with a machine gun, and it added a degree of realism. Bond is no longer invulnerable. The plot of the story revolves around spies stealing a top secret formula. While it's not as grand as world domination, it's not the small-fry assignment we've see in Live and Let Die and The Man With the Golden Gun (the movies). Towards the end of the novel a twist is added that has Bond and a team of climbers scaling a peak in the Himalayas to reach a crash site. All the while pacing is excellent, balancing plot and character development with action and girls. This book is highly recommended to all Bond fans, especially those who've seen the movies but have yet to enter the world of the Bond novels. It's close enough to the modern Bond movies that you could imagine Pierce Brosnan (or maybe even yourself!) as Bond, but it's definitely not one of those cheap &quot;further adventures&quot; that cash in on hit movies.	2001-10-28
US	49883056	R167ZSFXVSOQUZ	0553578766	667763921	Tales from the Empire: Star Wars Legends	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Star Wars on a human scale	Tales From the Empire is a collection of stories from the Star Wars adventure journal, a magazine that went out of print a few years back. Besides featuring games and rpg strategies, it let new authors write for the Star Wars expanded universe. Right off the bat, I'm going to list my ONLY real complaint: the title is misleading. The stories are not about the Empire, nor do all of them take place within the time of the Empire. However, that is my ONLY complaint.<br />To explain why I love this novel, I have to explain what made me like the Star Wars universe. It wasn't the movies themselves; the movies are great, and they get better with each viewing, but it was after playing Rebel Assault and reading this book that I was taken in. That game and this novel bring Star Wars down to a human scale. Rebel Assault let players on an alternate version of the first movie. Tales From the Empire lets the reader experience the pain and suffering of characters throughout the universe. A lot of these characters aren't war heroes or Jedi Knights. Most of them are simple folk, pulled into a war they tried to stay out of. One story has a medical doctor who is faced with a task of killing others to save one. There is a civilian mail carrier who's freighter is commandered to help retreat from Courscant. A loyal Imperial who must watch her best friend get taken away as a rebel traitor. The stories make up the heart of the Star Wars universe, and while they're not tearjerkers (well maybe), they'll definitely touch you emotionally.<br />What's also nice in these stories is seeing how the Star Wars universe has expanded. All the detail Lucas put into his classic trilogy has paid off. The book begins with a wonderful introduction which all Star Wars fans can relate to. All the stories feature little details that make them come alive; the Star Wars universe has its own name for paper, for the bathroom, for a switchblade, and almost anything else you can imagine. Heir to the Empire might be the classic Star Wars novel, but this book filled my imagination and put me right into the middle of the SW Universe. It allowed me to continue with new adventures in my mind long after I'd finished the book.<br />With regards to the writing styles, while the stories aren't as finessed as mainstream authors, they are all excellent reads. I liked Zahn's backstory for Talon Karrde, and would've loved to read \\"Mist Encounter\\" or \\"Command Decision\\", two Thrawn stories alleuded to in the intro. Corran Horn fans also take note: this novel features a bit of Corran's backstory, as well as a four-part story featuring the father-son team of Hal and Corran and how they captured Zekka Thyne (from Stackpole's X-Wing novels).<br />The bottom line: Get this novel. It is a true testament to the power of Star Wars fans and how they've kept the SW Universe alive for sixteen years.he classic Star Wars novel, but this book filled my imagination and put me right into the middle of the SW Universe. It allowed me to continue with new adventures in my mind long after I'd finished the book.<br />With regards to the writing styles, while the stories aren't as finessed as mainstream authors, they are all excellent reads. I liked Zahn's backstory for Talon Karrde, and would've loved to read \\"Mist Encounter\\" or \\"Command Decision\\", two Thrawn stories alleuded to in the intro. Corran Horn fans also take note: this novel features a bit of Corran's backstory, as well as a four-part story featuring the father-son team of Hal and Corran and how they captured Zekka Thyne (from Stackpole's X-Wing novels). <br />The bottom line: Get this novel. It is a true testament to the power of Star Wars fans and how they've kept the SW Universe alive for sixteen years.	2001-10-28
US	49883056	R2A4R71R5HDM5Q	0553568019	891099578	Rogue Squadron (Star Wars: X-Wing Series, Book 1)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	This is a great book	I admit I like Allston's X-Wing books better, for reasons I'll list below, but Stackpole does a splendid job of capturing the Star Wars universe and the excitement of space combat. It's easy to see why he ranks with Timmothy Zahn in terms of notable Star Wars writers. Stackpole's first cycle of four X-Wing books cover a turning-point in the Star Wars expanded universe, when the Rebel Alliance is looking to legitimize itself as a government and to that end, must secure the city-world of Courscant. Wedge Antilles brings back Rogue Squadron to spearhead the assault, and the story is seem from the point-of-view of Corran Horn, a former security agent from Corellia. The book is well-paced and makes for a fast read. We discover many interesting tidbits about Wedge, and are new characters like General Salm  and Tycho Celchu are integrated well with original characters like Admiral Ackbar. However, as much as I want to heap praise on this book, its not perfect. Not all of Rogue Squadron's pilots are developed; in fact, one pilot even dies without saying a single line of dialogue. If not for the unit roster in the first few pages, I wouldn't have known who the pilot was! Allston managed to give all of his pilots &quot;screen time&quot; and distinct personalities, so I was disappointed with Stackpole in that perspective. A portion of that complaint stems from the fact that the focus is on one pilot, Corran, so for characters to develop they must interact with him, and since Corran is a loner, this becomes difficult. Second, the space battles are hard to follow. Mostly you'll be able to follow the pilots going in, vaguely follow whats going on, then find out the results of the battle at the end of the chapter. Lastly, and this is really a minor complaint, several former pilots such as Biggs and Porkins are mentioned several times as being heroes, but it actually tends to get repetitive. Stackpole should have corroborated with Lucasfilm and created some other names for the original Rogue Squadron. Porkins and Dack may be legends, but we learn nothing new about them. To conclude, even with the complaints I've listed, the book is still a five-star read. The first X-Wing cycle is off to a strong start, and my expectations are high as I dive into book 2, Wedge's Gamble.inal Rogue Squadron. Porkins and Dack may be legends, but we learn nothing new about them. To conclude, even with the complaints I've listed, the book is still a five-star read. The first X-Wing cycle is off to a strong start, and my expectations are high as I dive into book 2, Wedge's Gamble.	2001-10-26
US	49883056	RB2KPNYZL569Y	0553298046	1581781	Specter of the Past (Star Wars: The Hand of Thrawn #1)	Books	4	3	5	N	N	A much needed shot in the arm	While many Star Wars diehards would never say it aloud, the sad fact is that the majority of the Star Wars novels have been pretty poor in terms of plot and character development. Many of the sci-fi writers employed are talented in their own right, but they have failed to balance the seriousness and grandness of the SW universe with the saturday-morning-serial feeling that George Lucas wanted. Now, finally, Timmothy Zahn has returned to write the final two books in bantam/spectra's line of novels. Almost immediately there is a sense of reuniting with old friends, be they friend or foe. In Chapter One we meet up again with Admiral Pealleon, now the supreme fleet commander of the remanants of the Imperial navy. Most authors have trouble keeping readers interest with their own new characters, simply because the characters are either undeveloped or have complex names that tend to be turn-offs. By the end of the chapter, not only have we been treated to a major and startling plot point (the Empire is going to surrender) but we respect Pealleon's decision and reasons for doing so, not because we are simply rooting for the good guys.<br />In fact, much of the plot of this book resolves around the fact that the good guys are not so clear-cut anymore. Evidence is discovered that links the Bothan people to a case of mass genocide decades earlier, and alien races start turning against each other. Zahn captures the scale of the situation rather well, with riots and senate hearings. The latter is particularly intriguing, now that we have seen the original senate from Episode One. Also mixed into the story is the supposed reappearance of Grand Admiral Thrawn. Zahn explains early on that all of it is a deception, but I'm sure he is holding a few plot twists for the next book.<br />In writing Specter of the Past, Zahn had nearly ten years worth of Star Wars history to draw on, but he wisely chooses to stick with his characters (and a cameo of Stackpole's Booster, Mirax, and Corran Horn). With the exception of a few references to The New Rebellion and other novels, most references are of Zahn's original trilogy. This feels odd at times, because the characters refer to the events as if they had happened a year ago, when it has been ten years and a lot of stuff has happened since then.<br />My only real complaint is that when all is said and done, this book is really pure exposition that is necessary for readers to follow the second book. The book lacks an ending of any sort, in fact everything feels deliberately left as a cliffhanger. However, this does not mean Specter of the Past is a boring book. Far from it, the story is a page-turner to the end, and will set you up with the tension and mood for Vision of the Future.n Horn). With the exception of a few references to The New Rebellion and other novels, most references are of Zahn's original trilogy. This feels odd at times, because the characters refer to the events as if they had happened a year ago, when it has been ten years and a lot of stuff has happened since then. <br />My only real complaint is that when all is said and done, this book is really pure exposition that is necessary for readers to follow the second book. The book lacks an ending of any sort, in fact everything feels deliberately left as a cliffhanger. However, this does not mean Specter of the Past is a boring book. Far from it, the story is a page-turner to the end, and will set you up with the tension and mood for Vision of the Future.	2001-09-18
US	49883056	R3LABTSZWMHBO2	0141301120	613098268	Charlie and the Great Glass Elevator	Books	3	41	45	N	N	An interesting follow-up to a classic	I remember in 2nd grade when our teacher read Charlie and the Chocolate Factory to the class. It had such an effect on us that when we spotted Charlie and the Great Glass Elevator in the school library, we were all scrambling over each other to get it (I got it first). Looking back, while this book is still good, it lacks the central focus and charm that the original had. I did not expect the focus to be on the chocolate factory, since the title clearly says 'Great Glass Elevator'. However, the elevator only features in the first-half the book when everyone gets launched into space. This might have been a good idea for another book, but here it seems odd and rather dragged-out. With the second part of the book, the gang returns to Earth and mess around with Wonka-vite, an age-restoring miracle drug that gets badly abused. This part is much better, since we get to learn a bit more about the factory. Overall, I would have been much more pleased if Dahl had made the book longer and divided it into several seperate short stories. Together, the two seperate plots don't connect at all. Grandma Georgina also proved to be a bitter character and not sympathetic at all. Also, I hope that there is a version out there that still contains the original drawings in the book. Nothing against Quentin Blake, but the original sketches were classic.	2001-08-26
US	49883056	R2SVXSRF3AEDDI	0553574132	967938127	Shadows of the Empire (Star Wars)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	The book that began my venture into the expanded universe	After seeing all the hype on TV for the Shadows of the Empire action figures and video game, I was plesantly surprised to find a novelization of it sitting on the shelf at a local bookstore. Now up until this point, I had only a vague interest in the Star Wars expanded universe. Eager to see what all the talk was about (and why this one novel would deserve multimedia treatment above all the others) I picked it up and started reading. From that one book, I now have over two dozen various Star Wars novels in my collection. Some of the novels like Zahn, Anderson, and Aaron Alliston's works have been brilliant. Others have fallen considerably short. Shadows of the Empire remains one of my favorite reads of my collection.<br />SotE is an easily accessible entry into the Star Wars universe. To understand where most of the events come from, the reader only has to referr to the original movies. With this in mind, Perry was rather limited in what he could do and not do. Obviously, the gang would have to attempt to rescue Han Solo, and obviously they would fail, because Han is not rescued until Return of the Jedi. Perry stays with Tattooine, Coruscant, and other familiar planets to make the reader feel more at home - the use of familiar aliens from the Star Wars universe (Barabels, Bothans, Ho'Dins) adds contunity that other books have not used (admit it - most of the later novels have featured one shot alien races) Dash Rendar may be more or less a Han Solo clone, but his use was only as a supporting character. The video game tie-in would be the one to feature his exploits.<br />One of the amazing things Perry did was introduce a character as memorable and formidible as Grand Admiral Thrawn in the space of one book. Xizor is a crafty villian, with a hint of sexuality that other Star Wars characters don't have, making for an interesting twist. As for the usual characters, they are all depicted as they should be. Luke is still developing his force powers as a Jedi Knight, and Perry's simpler writing style captures his farmboy-to-Jedi transformation. Vader, given that hes been dead for years in the other books, finally gets some extra development. The reader finds out his feelings about the Emperor, Luke, and Xizor, who is Vader's rival for the Emperors favor.<br />All in all, Perry did an excellent job with SotE. Granted, the book was merely a part of a major multimedia money-making engine - but the idea was well executed, and provides newbie Star Wars fans with an excellent entry into the expanded universePerry's simpler writing style captures his farmboy-to-Jedi transformation. Vader, given that hes been dead for years in the other books, finally gets some extra development. The reader finds out his feelings about the Emperor, Luke, and Xizor, who is Vader's rival for the Emperors favor.<br />All in all, Perry did an excellent job with SotE. Granted, the book was merely a part of a major multimedia money-making engine - but the idea was well executed, and provides newbie Star Wars fans with an excellent entry into the expanded universe	2001-03-18
US	49883056	RY9ONS55QN569	055357888X	701814267	Slave Ship (Star Wars: The Bounty Hunter Wars, Book 2)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	For a trip to nowhere, its a very scenic route	The most disappointing thing I found about this novel was that for all the action the reader reads involving Boba Fett, Bossk, and bounty-hunting in general, almost everything talked about has happened in the past, meaning we know how things will turn out in the end. The whole book is spent with  Dengar sitting aboard the Hound's Tooth retelling the story, and only seems  to serve as a transitional book between 1 and 3. The good points to the  novel include further characterization of Xizor, Kuat and his family line,  and while the book's finale is written in the past, the double/triple  crosses make it a good read. If you read book 1, read this book, so you can  enjoy book 3, which is the best of the cycle	2000-05-03
US	49883056	R2CBTZXCVNE8T	0553578820	8971344	Tales from the New Republic: Star Wars Legends	Books	3	7	7	N	N	More Tales for your enjoyment	The &quot;Tales&quot; series has always been a good standby to Star Wars readers, either for those who are waiting for the latest hardcover entry to come out, or want a glimpse at what goes on at the other end of the cantina while Han shot Greedo. KJA's 1st three volumes were good, but Tales from  the empire was met with mixed reviews. Tales from the new republic is no  different. While I personally enjoyed the majority of the stories in Tales  from the empire, the same can not be said for this edition. Simply put, the  stories are not that easy to get into this time around. The alien names are  getting stranger, and the more complex they are to pronounce, the less I  want to get into a story with them involved. The Mara Jade and Boba Fett  stories were good, but not great. Furthermore, they are all taken from  various periods in Star Wars chrnology, and not just the new republic era.  While I have great respect for the works of Zahn and Stackpole, I also  found it rather difficult to read their 4-part mini-novel. Overall, this is  another hit/miss novel, with several good stories and some mediocre ones.  But, still another good way to spend an hour lost in the fantasy sci-fi  world of Star Wars	2000-05-03
US	49883056	R151Y4KVG3C9HZ	055357891X	679067640	Hard Merchandise (Star Wars: The Bounty Hunter Wars, Book 3)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	The book readers were waiting for	While K. W. Jeter's series is not close to the quality we have expected from the Star Wars universe, his two previous books have managed to keep readers reading with plot twists, Prince Xizor, and the big question of what the heck is exactly going on. Who is Neelah? What does Kuat of Kuat  have to do with anything? How will Dengar and Boba Fett's partnership end?  Finally, all of these questions are resolved in Hard Merchandise. Undoubtly  the best of of the book cycle, Jeter manages to neatly tie everything up,  with an ending where I could actually hear John Williams' score in the  background. However, the problem with the series is, why wait so long to  make the series so good? Why is it that even when Boba Fett finally  explains everything, the reader is plagued by paragraphs of pointless  thought as the characters analyze every word spoken? Also, the  characterization of Boba Fett has been altered to some point, and there are  several noted incosistancies within the series. If you can sit through  reading the first two novels, then you will definitely feel well rewarded  when you finish this one. A great end to a more or less mediocre book cycle	2000-05-03
