US	49880415	R2E7P0FV0R6JZ	0525947582	875917513	Quitting America: The Departure of a Black Man from His Native Land	Books	5	15	22	N	N	I Have Only Skimmed The Book, But Liked What I read...	As a 46 year old African American author and journalist who hasn't emigrated to another country, only because I don't have custody of my six year old twins, and refuse to leave them to their mother, and the taunts and jokes too many African American kids hear about not knowing their daddies, I must say that at this point in my life I envy Robinson for leaving the U.S. His book makes such a strong and excellent case for any and every proud African American to simply leave these shores. It took me writing three books that have received great critical response, yet not very good sales among African Americans; and now a contract to write my fourth book, which at least two very prestigious publishers expressed interest in, only to finally pass on the proposal because they didn't feel enough people would be interested in the subject (a biography of James Weldon Johnson), forcing me to sign with a smaller publisher, to realize how poisonous American society is for any and every proud African American male (notice, I said &quot;proud African American male&quot; since I am convinced that most African American men lack adequate self-esteem). It is virtually impossible for us to live our lives in the manner that ambitious, self-confident Caucasian men take for granted. We are ALWAYS on the defensive. Not even our female counterparts respect us to the degree they should for one simple reason: collectively speaking, we have no real power in this society. And American culture is rigged to ensure that we never achieve any real power, either. The truth is that if we want anything approximating a decent life style, we are expected to humble ourselves in a way that Caucasian men, as a group, never have to worry about. But what makes it worse is that most African Americans don't have the mindset necessary for us as a people, to do anything about this predicament. They, too, are implicated in the worst aspects of life in America, far more interested in having a good time, reinforcing stereotypes, rather than improving themselves as human beings. Robinson's book tells the reader much about why this happens to be the case. I intend to read it thoroughly, rather than browse through it, as I have so far, when I can finally find the time.	2004-07-20
US	49880415	R16QH76OU7VWSM	0195139275	493129664	To Keep the Waters Troubled: The Life of Ida B. Wells	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A Deft Rendering of The Most Impressive Woman in History...	And one of the ten most impressive people I've ever read about, period. I can't say too much about how awed I am of the life of Ida B. Wells. Had I been her contemporary I would have worn out my knees trying to propose to her until she married me. McMurry's book shows how this woman has been short changed by history due to her uncompromising belief in African American equal rights and self-respect. She and people like another African American who doesn't get his due, Monroe Trotter, have been marginalized merely because in their day they demanded the same degree of self-respect and political and educational rights that Caucasians of every stripe took for granted. They were considered &quot;radical&quot; and &quot;militant&quot; for not compromising the way virtually all other African American leaders did during their era. Their marginalization goes a long way in explaining why the African American persona has never featured the degree of chutzpah and daring it has needed for us to advance farther than we have. Instead, all of us have been too heavily influenced by leaders promoted over Wells-Barnett and Trotter, who instilled caution within us as a people, virtually as second nature. Not even W.E.B. Du Bois conducted himself with the degree of pride and fortitude that people like Wells-Barnett and Trotter did. McMurry's book deserves a place on all reading lists in American history classes so that everyone can truly understand the troubling forces that made this country what it is today, and the manner in which people like Wells-Barnett were purposely silenced as part of a plan to keep African Americans oppressed.	2004-07-15
US	49880415	R2NZP05H96MJX5	0375506160	802201377	Mountains Beyond Mountains: Healing the World: The Quest of Dr. Paul Farmer	Books	4	7	23	N	N	Mountains Beyond Mountains: Inadvertently Serves a Certain A	\\"Mountains Beyond Mountains\\" is absorbing and Paul Farmer to be truly amazing. However, there is something quite troubling about this book. I hate to get racial about things (especially since Caucasians tend to tune out nowadays, when ever an African American does so, refusing to even listen to what's being said, as will be demonstrated, I predict, by the many who will push \\"No\\" at the bottom of this review to indicate that it wasn't helpful). But I think that, as a so-called race, Caucasians can read this book and pat themselves on the back for producing a Paul Farmer. Here's why I say this. Clearly, the book portrays Haiti as an extremely poor and oppressed place, where too many of those in power are extremely uncaring about the poor. So bad are conditions there, and so amazing is Paul Farmer that Caucasians can pat themselves on the back for producing someone like him, and, simultaneously let themselves off the hook for maintaining the type of society we have here in the U.S. because, at least in the U.S. the poor aren't faring nearly as badly as they are in Haiti. And look at who is making the biggest difference of all down there: not another Haitian; not another \\"black person\\" period, but \\"one of their own.\\" The other thing that struck me about this book. Kidder is much older than Paul Farmer. Yet throughout the book, he displays an awe of Farmer. Here's why this interests me. I cannot imagine this same writer displaying a similar awe for an African American physician, no matter how talented that physician was. I may be wrong. But in my experience with the vast majority of Caucasians, rare is the African American they don't condescend to. Rare is the African American of any background, whom they don't expect to prove that he or she deserves even the basics of their respect, no matter what the African American's vocation (unless that vocation has something to do with athletics or entertainment). Yet at the same time, rare is the African American who, like Farmer, would be willing to turn conventional wisdom in a scientific field on its head, rather than conform to accepted notions in her or his field in order to prove that he or she deserves the respect of peers. This is why I have such mixed feelings about this book. I admire Farmer and am convinced of his sincerity of mission. But I am conflicted about how he is being used by a publishing and media environment eager to prove that the world would be lost without Caucasians of intelligence and good will.	2004-04-30
US	49880415	R2377MSJGXG6RL	0804105421	150749575	The Second Coming	Books	5	40	43	N	N	If I Could Rate it Higher, I would!!!	I've long been familiar with the name, Walker Percy, and of his well-known relative who helped settle the Mississippi Delta, and was one of the most powerful and wealthy planters in that region. But it wasn't until I finally picked up &quot;The Moviegoer&quot; to figure out why that book is so well-respected, that I finally understood why Percy was considered such a phenomonal writer by those in the know. His style is PERFECT. His themes -- PERFECT. I have never read a writer I am more enthralled with. And I like &quot;The Second Coming,&quot; too. This guy, if anything, is UNDERRATED. He is as profound as Faulkner, but EASY TO UNDERSTAND (my 11th grade English teacher always taught that you can be as profound as you wish, as long as you make your writing understandable to EVERYONE, ranging from an educated king, to the lowliest peasant, which is a policy that I have personally tried to follow as a published author myself). The Second Coming is an excellent story that explores human depths that so many novelists don't even begin to reach. I now intend to read everything I can get my hands on that this outstanding writer ever wrote.	2004-02-02
US	49880415	R3F5BTZRG671BV	0679720227	169376079	The Fall	Books	5	2	4	N	N	Outstanding Camus	This book is one of the best from one of my favorite authors, whom I turn to when I need solace from this crazy world. Camus asked and answered the universal questions. \\"The Fall\\" explores all of them, reminding us of the mystery of existance and the complicated nature of human behavior.	2004-01-16
US	49880415	R2WIPYIRGR0506	0375726349	301023145	The Human Stain: American Trilogy (3)	Books	3	8	12	N	N	The Movie is MUCH BETTER than the Book!!!	I wrote a review of the book, The Human Stain, in which I detailed all of its faults, including FAR TOO MUCH interior monologue. I'm writing this second review to say that the film is FAAAAAAAAAAR better than the book. I do think, though, that Anthony Hopkins is a bit farfetched to play the older Coleman Silk. By contrast, the actor playing the younger Coleman Silk is TOTALLY BELIEVABLE as a light skinned African American choosing to pass for Jewish. Why couldn't someone such as Ben Kingsley be cast as the older Silk, or a very very light-skinned African American? The other thing I wish to point out. In the book Roth makes the huge mistake of perpetuating a fallacy about the fate of Dr. Charles Drew: that he died in 1950 after an auto accident in North Carolina because a hospital wouldn't admit him due to his skin color. Drew was, in fact, admitted to the hospital, only to die because his injuries were too extensive. Thankfully, we didn't have to hear this myth perpetuated in the film. The film, &quot;The Human Stain,&quot; is far better than movie reviewers are giving it credit to be. Nicole Kidman deserves a Best Actress Oscar for playing Faunia Farley. Ed Harris deserves a Best Supporting Actor nod. If you have to read the book, good luck slogging through analysis that is far too tiresome and finely parsed for its own good. See the film instead.	2003-11-15
US	49880415	R16IM86G8VWUPW	0060557540	5482241	The Known World	Books	3	18	72	N	N	A Good Concept, But the raise is a Bit Troubling	I browsed through this book yesterday, after reading about the excessive praise it is receiving. I think it reads well, and Mr Jones and I once shared the same literary agent. But here is what I find troubling. Like Stephen Carter's &quot;The Emperor of Ocean Park,&quot; once more we are faced with excessive praise for a book that, among other things, portrays a loving relationship between a Caucasian man and an African American woman. Rarely do we see the same amount of praise dispensed for books portraying love between attractive Caucasian women and African American men. I, personally, don't think this is a coincidence. And as far as certain reviewers are concerned. I wish to take as an example, Jonathan Yardley of the Washington Post, who is among the major reviewers praising this book to the high hilts. In this book, Jones travels back and forth in time. Yet, in a review of my 2000 book, &quot;Under the Knife: How a Wealthy Negro Surgeon Wielded Power in the Jim Crow South,&quot; Mr. Yardley, who wrote the sole negative review that book received, took me to task for writing a book that did the exact same thing -- traveled back and forth in time. So, why isn't Yardley criticizing Edward Jones the way he criticized me? It just goes to show how POLITICAL the entire review process is.	2003-10-18
US	49880415	RSP1YEB1MVICH	0375506160	802201377	Mountains Beyond Mountains: Healing the World: The Quest of Dr. Paul Farmer	Books	5	74	103	N	N	I Browsed Through it Yesterday and Couldn't Put It Down	I am very busy right now, and like Kidder, am an author and journalist. But I read about this book, and as a result, was in a bookstore in Brooklyn Heights yesterday and browsed through it. I could not put it down. Here's what interests me about this doctor. As an African American interested in the issue of why, collectively, we haven't advanced intellectually, any further than we have, I am jealous of Caucasians who harbor the self-confidence to change the rules, rather than have to try to prove they even belong in the room. I think that Afro-America needs more people like this, rather than those of us consumed with &quot;proving&quot; that we are just as intelligent as everyone else. Hats off to Kidder and Farmer. This guy is truly inspirational, and I intend to use his story as part of a book I'm working on (my fourth). My only caveat to his attitude is his belief that there's something to the religious beliefs of the poor. I happen to think that religion has been the bane of the poor, especially to people of black African heritage. Subscribing to it too much has been one of the principal reasons that not enough of us have adequately developed our intellects.	2003-09-24
US	49880415	R77DU0GODUZYN	0060505281	565936517	The Skeptic: A Life of H. L. Mencken	Books	3	10	11	N	N	Interesting, But a Few Flaws	I found Terry Teachout's bio of Mencken to contain a lot of information available elsewhere. It was interesting, but I must take issue with some of Teachout's analysis. He claims that Mencken was an anti-Semite. No more so than he was anti-Irish; anti-Negro; anti-Italian American, etc. In other words, it is quite obvious that Mencken was an equal opportunity offender. The alleged proof of his anti-Semtism: that he disliked Jews who called attention to their Jewishness. This was no worse than Mencken's belief that others shouldn't call attention to their ethnicity, either. Then, too, there was his isolationism during WWII, and belief that the Jews brought anti-Semitism on themselves. While I do find such a viewpoint debatable (and no excuse in any way for the holocaust, which Mencken didn't support), I don't think that made Mencken an anti-Semite (he did call Hitler a fool). Rather, such a viewpoint made Mencken what he was: a very opinionated believer in how people, no matter what their color or ethnicity, should conduct themselves. Of course, he also castigated African Americans, and, collectively speaking, considered them to be inferior. Yet he also recognized the brilliance of such African American individuals as James Weldon Johnson and Claude McKay. And to be honest, I found one choice quote of his about African Americans as a whole unwilling to improve themselves, riding on the shoulders of those who genuinely deserve praise for their accomplishments, to be right on the mark (though I don't agree with his opinion of Jazz, which I think is a brilliant contribution to American culture). And I'm African American. In sum, Mencken, in many ways, was a product of his times. What set him apart and what I appreciate in his writing was his HONESTY. It was rare in his day, and certainly remains so today. Yet, as some have said, while Teachout's book is informative, it's not absolutely essential for anyone seeking to understand the essence of Mencken.	2003-08-27
US	49880415	RZ4N9T4DB6NL5	0807822507	977196846	One Blood: The Death and Resurrection of Charles R. Drew	Books	4	14	16	N	N	Someone at Amazon Needs to Check The Ingram Review Here!!!	I decided to look up the Amazon site for Spencie Love's book \\"One Blood,\\" because I recently wrote a review of Phillip Roth's \\"The Human Stain, where I point out the erroneous information provided by a character about the death of Dr. Charles Drew. The character claimed that Drew bled to death because he was refused admission to a Caucasian hospital due to his race. Lo and behold I look up this Amazon site and read the Ingram review of \\"One Blood,\\" only to discover that it too, has erroneous information. The review claims that Drew was refused admission to one hospital, then treated in the emergency room of a segregated hospital, after which he bled to death. Apparently, the reviewer didn't read Love's book either. That's not what she describes as happening. Drew was IMMEDIATELY admitted to the emergency room of Allamance County Hospital in Allamance County, North Carolina, where doctors couldn't save him because he was entirely too injured to be saved. Love makes this VERY CLEAR in the book. The Ingram review implies that first Drew was taken to one hospital and refused admission, then taken to a \\"segregated\\" facility where he was treated, but couldn't be saved. No!!! This is not what Love says happened. In the book she describes how it was JUST ONE HOSPITAL ALL ALONG where Drew was taken and treated. Part of the point of her book is to correct the long held fallacy that Drew bled to death due to the refusal of a hospital to admit him. Please someone at Amazon, GET THE BOOK. Then read what she wrote. Then post my review of Roth's novel, where I express my dismay that Roth got away with furthering a myth that is still well entrenched among those who should research such matters before commenting about them (or having characters comment about them).	2003-07-22
US	49880415	R32B3UI78HCUHM	0440220602	233513923	The Chamber	Books	5	1	3	N	N	Fascinating Book!!!	It isn't easy for a lover of serious fiction to want to pick up a John Grisham book because of his constant bestseller status. But here, Grisham has clearly written something that ranks with our best serious authors. This book was very informative, gripping and suspenseful. I love the way Grisham got into the mind of the racist South. The passages that describe the gross hypocrisy of Southern racists who commonly slept with African American women (even during the Jim Crow era), while endlessly ranting about African American male lust for \\"the white woman,\\" were much appreciated. Obviously, their obsession had everything to do with fear that if African American men had the same freedom that they took for granted, then they'd do to the proverbial \\"white woman\\" what Southern Caucasian men routinely did to African American women. The complexity of the characters in this book was also very satisfying. This one, at least, is an outstanding example of mainstream fiction.	2003-07-08
US	49880415	RYOFE8QYQ5CM	0375726349	301023145	The Human Stain: American Trilogy (3)	Books	3	4	9	N	N	Roth Gets Overly Analytical Here	I have mixed feelings about Phillip Roth. He definitely has a unique writing style that a person could identify from a mile away if no one told you that what you were reading was something by Roth. Yet in this book he gets over analytical. Page after page of finely parsed analysis, for what seems like just for the sake of analysis, becomes wearing after awhile. And the way his narrator dismisses the Clinton-Lewinsky scandal is so typically p.c. Fact is, Clinton lied under oath before a grand jury. That alone, justified his impeachment. If he didn't think what he and Lewinski did was anyone's business then that's what he should have told the grand jury (though I do believe that performing sex acts in the oval office qualifies as something the tax payers have the right to know about, and don't doubt that other presidents did the same; yet if other presidents were asked about it and lied under oath, then they, too, would be justified in being impeached). As for Coleman Silk's escape from \\"blackness,\\" I found Roth's portrayal very interesting. It brought to mind the absurd nature of the African American experience in America for those of us who don't have the choice of escaping as Coleman did. I'm constantly amazed at the imperviousness of Caucasians to this predicament and would love for every Caucasian to spend at least one month under such suffocating constraints before passing judgement on African Americans. It appears that Roth, at least, has thought about many of the absurdities. The pity is that Coleman found it necessary to \\"kill off\\" his mother and siblings in order to be free. Would that he would have simply told his wife about his family (he already claimed that he thinks she could have handled it), and kept in contact with them, while just allowing everyone else to assume what they wanted to.	2003-07-02
US	49880415	R3AY1VWXT3GTO5	0553271989	424077500	The Odessa File	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Great Forsythe!	One of the things I like about Frederick Forsythe's writing is that it is not overly florid. It is very detailed, matter-of-fact, and filled with suspense. I read the Odessa File as research for a book I'm interested in writing (which would be my fifth book) about the differences between African American and Jewish culture. The book interested me because of its revelations about the concentration camps. Of course, plenty other books give more detail about that subject. And the Odessa File is primarily about the organization formed to help former Nazi SS officers escape prosecution for war crimes. But I wanted to read it anyway. I think Forsythe is one of the few novelists who know how to combine all the proper elements -- style, characterization, and suspense -- in just the right proportions, to write fascinating suspense fiction.	2003-06-27
US	49880415	R577PQN84NXN8	0060809779	146114302	Native Son	Books	3	3	6	N	N	Good, But Overrated	I read Native Son several years ago, and recently returned to it. Unlike Ellison's &quot;Invisible Man,&quot; I don't think it holds up as well, many years after publication. The reason is that much of the writing style and innovativeness is dated. And it has questionable plot elements. In the key scene where Bigger is trying to prevent Mrs. Dalton from knowing he is in the bedroom with her daughter, one must wonder why he would so thoroughly lose his presence of mind, not to realize that she might not only walk up to the bed and smell her daughter's breath and clothing to see that it reeks of alcohol, but that she might also feel her way to her daugher's body, only to discover Bigger's presence? We're already told that he has seen her feel her way down hallways. So, why not, when sensing Mrs. Dalton's presence, simply hide under the bed? The other thing that makes the book dated is that now Bigger Thomas is the archetype for the recalcitrant, violent African American male. At the time Wright wrote the book I'm sure it was innovative. But it became so popular that now, racists in masse see Bigger Thomas when they think of African American males. Contrast this with the rich metaphor that is still detectable in Ellison's &quot;Invisible Man&quot; and I must conclude that Native Son is very overrated as a classic.	2003-06-21
US	49880415	R2D93I5I9J4UIZ	0375413634	70225414	The Emperor of Ocean Park	Books	2	3	7	N	N	Replacement for Previous Review	After finally finishing this book (I previously wrote a review after finishing about 80% of it), I don't view it as favorably as I did when I wrote the original review. Here's why. What lingers with me is the overly florid writing of Carter. I got sick and tired of his overwright descriptions of how people looked, how rooms looked, etc. I don't need metaphors and similes describing people and things in a manner that adds nothing to the story. Second, I get sick and tired of educated African Americans who have to write in a manner that shows Caucasian America how cultured they are, as if to say, &quot;I'm not like the other [&quot;blacks&quot;].&quot; So what if you know all about Bach and Bethoven? Or the philosphy of Kant or whomever? If it adds nothing to the story to have characters speaking of such things, then why divulge them? The other thing that really irritated me about the book, was Talcott's occasional reference to the fact that he wasn't into &quot;white women.&quot; Well, excuse me, Talcott. Since it is quite obvious that you are thoroughly into impressing Caucasians with what you know, then why do you then turn around and tell them how much you aren't into &quot;their women&quot;? It sounds more than a bit hypocritical to be so sensitive about how they see you, then turn around and claim that there is no such thing as ANY Caucasian woman who could interest you. Fourth, again to touch on the interracial criticism. The SOLE loving relationship among the pricinpal characters that ends up working out, is that between Talcott's sister Mariah, and her rich Caucasian husband with whom she has a large family. I wonder why the author Stephen Carter made this choice? Why couldn't Mariah have been married to a successful African American investment banker? Why is it that in the vast majority of books and movies where interracial relationships are portrayed as &quot;working out,&quot; it's between a Caucasian man and an African American woman? I don't think this is a coincidence. I think that America PREFERS its interracial relationships that way. And I get fed up with books and movies where African American men are portrayed as having to be with African American women, lest their self-images be questioned, while their Caucasian counterparts can be with whomever they please, no questions asked. For an African American male author to play into this cliche' really irritates me and smacks of a desire to make the book as commercially appealing as possible. Other than these criticisms, the book was a page turner. And I think Carter has a second career as an author of popular fiction.	2003-06-02
US	49880415	R1NKIR8237ZY43	0375413634	70225414	The Emperor of Ocean Park	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Great First Novel, with a few flaws	I think Stephen Carter has written a great first novel. That he could find the time to teach law at Yale, write nonfiction books, and write this legal thriller is amazing. The book is a bit overlong, yet it is fascinating in its description of the African American bourgeoisie of Washington D.C., even for those of us quite familiar with them (people like me, having attended college with the same crowd, at Brown, and also being the son of an African American physician). It also gives a great window into the academic legal community that I never knew about. To see how even in elite legal circles politicking goes on, and that even African Americans of the stature and achievement of a Carter must fight condescension, is revealing. And it told me about what I long suspected due to the experiences of my college classmates who went on to prestigious law firms. That it really isn't worth it, working in such circles. The only criticisms I have are that Carter suffers from what so many African American authors seem to suffer from: the need to impress Caucasians with how well-read they are. If his views are anything like his main character, Talcott, he also seems to feel as though African Americans shouldn't be so quick to mimick their Caucasian oppressors. I see such a tendency as totally understandable, at the same time that it repulses me. Thus, I will defend their right to be petty and overly obsessed with status at the same time that I refuse to participate. We need to lighten up on ourselves. All told, again, this is an impressive first novel. I look forward to Carter's next.	2003-05-23
US	49880415	RD6HFI5YFSH3I	0375756868	853913146	Kingsblood Royal (Modern Library Classics)	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Great Lewis	Kingsblood Royal is largely successful at what it attempts. The reason I didn't give it five stars is because there are a few one dimensional characters in it. Though Lewis tries for complexity in his African American characters, in a few of them, he misses the mark. And occasionally the book suffers from that &quot;can't we all just get along&quot; ness that enlightened Caucasians can't help but aim for in books like these.  Overall, though, the book is a great success. What struck me time and time again, was the rage with which this nation has demonstrated its belief in the resolute inferiority of black African genes. That having only 1/32nd black African ancestry could cause people to view you entirely differently, proves the potency of the belief that one drop of identifiable black African blood, poisons the entire pool. I recommend this book to anyone who seeks to really understand the racial craziness of America.	2003-04-29
US	49880415	R2CW0G3ZV8B0N8	0060501170	876613013	I'll Take You There: A Novel	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Great Oates	As I've said after reading one of her other books, it is a real travesty that Joyce Carol Oates, our most prolific serious contemporary author, has yet to be awarded a Nobel Prize in literature. Her understanding of human nature is unsurpassed. She appears to have a special interest in relationships between Caucasian women and African American men, as this is her third novel that takes up the subject (the others being, &quot;Because It is Bitter ands Because it is My Heart&quot;; and &quot;I Lock the Door Upon Myself&quot;). It is my opinion that this is the relationship frought with the most danger, the most potential negative baggage of any relationships among Americans (indeed, fear of it forms the entire basis of this nation's racial problem). Perhaps Oates agrees. I wonder if this character is, in some ways, modeled off of her, since she did also attend Syracuse University and was an honor graduate. Perhaps one day soon the literary poohbahs will rectify the manner in which they have overlooked this very important author in bestowing literature's highest honor. I certainly hope so.	2003-04-14
US	49880415	R39FE0MYQX3BKL	1565847733	483781871	White: The Biography of Walter White, Mr. Naacp	Books	3	5	9	N	N	Informative, But the Author Has Too Many Biases	Kenneth Janken hads written a very informative book about Walter White. What's good about it is that it rectifies the dearth of good books that really delve into the gravity regarding the history of America's racial sickness. Walter White had a front row seat to this reality. He was able to investigate some of the most gruesome lynchings in American history because most people thought he was Caucasian. The extent of the racial pogroms detailed in this book is amazing. It dramatizes how throughout U.S. history African Americans have had to beg, borrow and steal our way to a modicum of respect. It is especially revealing with regard to the condecension displayed by Jews who called themselves helpful in advancing African American civil rights. And it shows how all people labled as oppressed minorities strive to join the majority group where ever they live. Yet African Americans are the sole group in U.S. society for whom a concerted effort has been made (and continues to be made) to keep on the outside. There are flaws to the book, however. For example, like so many Caucasians, Janken refuses African Americans any right to complexity. By that I mean that he denies us the right to class distinctions by chastising White for looking down his nose at African Americans at the bottom who didn't do their best to improve themselves. This is a common attitude amongst so-called liberal and leftists Caucasians, who seem to feel that all African Americans at the bottom are noble. Yet these same Caucasians do their best to identify themselves as \\"white,\\" as in separate from African Americans, the implication being that racial distinctions that really aren't legitimate, indeed, are legitimate. Such people simply can't seem to accept the fact that ever since the end of slavery there has been a significant cadre' of African Americans at the bottom who have no interest at all in improving themselves. It is this \\"noble savage\\" element which continues to fascinate most Caucasian Americans, who just can't seem to accept any African Americans who seek assimilation and self-improvement as \\"true blacks.\\" In addition, there is at least one error in the book. Janken discusses the struggle to build the VA hospital in Tuskegee Alabama at the end of World War I. In his discussion he erroneously states that efforts to ensure that the staff of the hospital was all Caucasian were temporarily successful. This was not true at all. From the very beginning, the president of Tuskegee, Robert Moton, and school physician John A. Kenney Sr., successfully resisted all efforts to staff the hospital with Caucasians. The other criticism I have of the book is that in many passages it is overwritten (example: \\"[White] was no Pollyanna, and he was the angry black soldiers' amanuensis.\\" What the h... does \\"amanuensis\\" mean?). Too often Janken strives for words that make a reader run to his dictionary unnecessarily. In this he is like fellow historian, David Levering Lewis. Overall, I recommend this book for informativeness only.	2003-04-12
US	49880415	R3UT8OAPKCGV16	082031742X	451614326	The Fire in the Flint (Brown Thrasher Books)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Five Stars Primarily Because of Its Importance	The reason I rate &quot;The Fire in the Flint&quot; five stars is because it is one of the many novels (books as a whole) written by very intelligent African American authors, which do not receive their just due by the mainstream press. Those in the know about the type of society we live in realize that certain books, certain films, certain plays which are truly outstanding, get ignored for reasons that are part of an agenda sometimes unnoticed even by those pushing the agenda. Through this novel (NAACP executive secretary Walter White's first, and I think only one), White proved that he knew from where the South's and this nation's racial problem sprang. Had he not chosen a career as a civil rights leader, and instead, become a full-time novelist, this book proves that eventually he could easily have ranked as high in stature as the best serious novelists in the country. But, obviously, he had his own reasons for pursuing the career path that he did. No doubt, some of those reasons had to do with pragmatism. Nevertheless, this is a very impressive first effort, given that it is alleged that White wrote the entire novel only in a matter of weeks while on a vacation.<br />Imagine what he might have written had he taken a year or two, to refine his theme and narrative? And rest assured, there are PLENTY of other African Americans of White's era who, no doubt, had similar creative talent. Let &quot;The Fire in the Flint&quot; be a lesson to all of us, regarding what we truly DO NOT know about plenty of talented, impressive people, primarily forgotten by history, as well as those not even written up in the history books.	2002-12-18
US	49880415	R1CGRF7GYMC59T	030680929X	669543245	Along This Way: The Autobiography Of James Weldon Johnson	Books	5	37	38	N	N	A True Classic!!!	I purchased this book several years back, as part of the research for my second book. I cannot recommend any book more highly. Anyone interested at all in African American life from the 1880s to the 1930s (particularly as it was lived in New York City from about 1899 to the Harlem Renaissance) should buy it. There is not a more fascinating autobiography in print anywhere! And the life of this man! He was the founder of the first high school for African Americans in the state of Florida, located in Jacksonville (the high school my own mother would attend); the first African American to pass the bar exam in the state of Florida; part of the first successful African American Broadway composing team (after he left Jacksonville and moved to New York City); composer of the lyrics to, \\"Lift Every Voice and Sing,\\" the song long considered the African American national anthem (his brother Rosamond composed the music); a consulate in Nicaragua and Venezuela; the first executive secretary of the NAACP, in which capacity he pioneered anti-lynching legislation (though he was unsuccessful in seeing it pass, the effort is described in the book, and is a fascinating lesson in the machinations of Congressional politics in the 1920s); author of groundbreaking fiction such as, \\"The Autobiography of an Ex-Coloured Man\\"; author of the nonfiction classic, \\"Black Manhattan.\\" The list goes on... His accomplishments, his dignity and intelligence were stunning, simply awe inspiring. And it is a real shame, an indication of how troubled our culture is, that Hollywood has never made a movie about his life, and he is barely mentioned as a key figure who shaped American culture (notice I didn't say African American culture, I said AMERICAN CULTURE). To everyone reading this review, BUY THIS BOOK. You are in for an experience so delicious it will shame you if you never before knew it existed. It will make you want to call for the resignation of all college professors who do not have \\"Along This Way\\" as REQUIRED READING for any course designed to examine the history of American culture.	2002-11-30
US	49880415	RLNPEW6APRBQD	0375502238	955709915	Blessings	Books	1	11	31	N	N	Textbook Example of Literary Hypocrisy	Anna Quinlen's rise at the NYT, and subsequent success as a novelist is a textbook example of hypocrisy in the mainstream media and literary community. She has never been an interesting writer. Her fiction is filled with overwrought, empty descriptions. Her characters are the typical self-absorbed, empty headed, Caucasian hypocrites who litter the nation's landscape. There are loads of authors far better than her whom the reading public and the snobs at the New York Times should be paying attention to. But like Holden Caufield says in Sallinger's classic, &quot;The Catcher in the Rye,&quot; the world is run by phonies. And Quinlen happens to be one of their kind. So they promote her literary career. Do yourself a favor and purchase a book by a good author who doesn't receive anywhere near the attention this literary con artist does.	2002-11-17
US	49880415	R2AL7U2AF8XVHD	0345434099	309869328	Love Is a Racket	Books	5	0	0	N	N	It's Depressing that Someone Who Writes So Well...	is being largely ignored by the reading public. I can't imagine a writer of noir fiction writing anything better than \\"Love is a Racket.\\" And I'm perplexed as to why Ridley isn't as popular as writers such as Patricia Cornwell and others. Or even a fellow African American writer of books set amongst down and out Angelenos -- Walter Mosley...I really have enjoyed \\"Love is a Racket,\\" and only have 67 more pages to go. John Ridley deserves a far larger audience for his books. So if you're reading this in contemplation of buying \\"Love is a Racket,\\" get it and all the the other books Ridley writes.	2002-11-12
US	49880415	R3F9E5M1ISQ8SQ	0316769533	862964341	The Catcher in the Rye	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Nothing Left to Say Except...	There is simply nothing left to add for those who already KNOW this is one of the great classic novels in American literature, except the following. There are many writers who are writing profound treatments of various aspects of American culture. Yet the literary poo-baahs, such as the high and mighty editors at the New York Times Book Review and the New Yorker CHOOSE who they focus attention on. And that's part of what makes this book so timeless in its commentary on society. The phoniness Holden encounters is timeless. It pervades all aspects of our culture even in 2002. As an author of nonfiction who has enjoyed a taste of acclaim, I know from where I speak.<br />Recognition involves talent and politics, with particular emphasis on the latter. Yet, we're supposed to act like this isn't true, and if you simply work hard you'll get your just reward. That's b.s., the same way Holden dramatizes it was b.s. in the New York City existing in the early 1950s. I keep rereading this book, as well as Ralph Ellison's &quot;Invisible Man,&quot; a timeless look at racial realities that remain true in 2002, because of the manner in which they reveal the stubborn aspects of human nature that refuse to be scrubbed away. For those who just don't get why this book is simple brilliance, too bad. It is one of the Great American Novels, written in the voice of a teen, yet with wisdom people of all ages can appreciate. As a result, Sallinger had to go into hiding after it hit big, because everyone sought him out. He's now in his 80s. I hope he has lived a happy life.	2002-11-06
US	49880415	R2H0WMSO8R8CHZ	0452265819	534383675	Because It Is Bitter, and Because It Is My Heart (Plume)	Books	5	14	16	N	N	It's a Crime That She Hasn't Yet Been Awarded the Nobel!!!	I haven't read every Joyce Carol Oates novel, only a few of the 30 odd ones she has written. Based on what I have read, and especially this book, I feel it is a crime that Oates has yet to win literature's higest honor.<br />I read this book several years back and recently returned to it as part of a personal study of different literary styles. \\"Because It Is Bitter\\" is one of my five favorite novels. Oates's skill at putting herself in the shoes of virtually every type of character imaginable is simply astonishing. After reading this book I couldn't believe that she has also inhabited the head of an African American male like me. And she surely understands all of the ramifications of this nation's racial sickness.<br />Kudos to Oates, from one author (of nonfiction) to another, for this extremely brave and deeply moving book.	2002-10-14
US	49880415	R1XPTWQTZD1JEI	0375413634	70225414	The Emperor of Ocean Park	Books	3	5	7	N	N	I've Read Better	This novel starts out interestingly but does meander. And a note about the supposed upper classness of the family. How is it that a federal judge, on the salary federal judges are paid, can be portrayed as the pillar of an upper class community? The implication given in this book is that the patriarch at the center of \\"The Emperor...\\" sits at the summit among the wealthiest and most prestigious African Americans. But the last time I checked the salaries of federal judges, they made out no better than primary care physicians and associates at the most prestigious law firms. The same with law professors. So I'm at a loss for how this family can be portrayed as so upper class. In real life many African American families would be wealthier and hardly consider a federal judge the pillar of their summer resort community. He would certainly be well respected, but not the creme' de la creme' (remember elder statesman Thurgood Marshall, African American Supreme Court justice? He ranked higher than a federal judge). That distinction would go to actual African American millionaires (to those who keep insisting that they never knew the world Carter is portraying here exists, yes, there are some African American millionaires, even old money families).<br />Also, like others here have stated, the hype surrounding this novel is a textbook example of how the publicity machine in the major publishing industry operates. Give an author $4 million and, miraculously, once the book is published a front page review  appears in the NYT Book Review, and it will be featured on all the major network hype programs. And, no matter the quality of the book, it will definitely be either a good review, or so broad in papering over weaknesses (\\"the author shows promise for the future...\\") to ensure that the major publishing house earns back its advance.<br />There have been other novels this summer at least as good or better than this one. Yet they didn't get similar coverage in the press because the authors didn't receive the same size advance that had to be earned back by the publisher. Yet we call ours a nation of equal opportunity for all where if you put in the talent and hard work you will receive your just reward? The truth is, EVERYTHING is political and/or governed by the almighty dollar. The only good thing to come of the hype surrounding this book is proof that the literary publicity machine is an equal opportunity hyper when the dollars needed to be recovered are high enough. It's willing to kick into gear regardless of the race of the characters in the book.<br />But as far as the fairness of what gets hyped is concerned, someone please tell me again: What democratic society in which talent is the sole determinant of who makes it, is the one we're supposed to be defending against terrorists? Where is that place I was told about that I lived in as a child, but as a grown-up have yet to discover? I'm still trying to locate it.	2002-09-21
US	49880415	R353RAK1JQ3WHU	189162069X	316457848	Vernon Can Read! A Memoir	Books	3	10	12	N	N	Interesting and Frustrating	This book is both interesting and frustrating. It is interesting because of the information it gives about life for African Americans in Georgia prior to the end of Jim Crow. And for the information Jordan provides about starting out practicing law in Georgia with attorney Donald Hollowell.<br />After that it becomes frustrating because of all it leaves out. And once you read interviews with Vernon Jordan about why he wrote \\"Vernon Can Read,\\" you understand something about his character. It appears that the sole reason he wrote the book is because so many Caucasians had never heard of him prior to the election of Bill Clinton as president (and the Monica Lewinsky scandal), and he wanted to let them know he had an entire career history before Clinton was even heard of...	2002-09-01
US	49880415	R1O05GOYP8P712	0446528366	434101475	A Conversation with the Mann	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Too Bad it's not possible to Rate it Higher	Okay. For those who click on to read about this book, perhaps it's monotonous to see so many five star ratings. Which is one of the reasons I wish it were possible to give the book more than five stars.<br />Here's the things I don't understand. Why didn't this book get a front page review in the NYT Book Review? And why is it not higher in the Amazon.com sales ranking, given that it was published only a couple of months ago?<br />It is always said that the first duty of a novelist is to SHOW and not TELL. John Ridley has done a superlative job of SHOWING how the African American predicament in this culture has been so tragic. As a journalist and nonfiction author who would love one day to write fiction (Isn't that the dream of almost everyone, as well as selling a few screeplays? A dream Ridley is living), this book rates as precisely the quality of fictional work I would like to leave on earth before departing it.<br />Ridley doesn't overdo the literary stylism, he strikes just the right tempo, and uses just the right descriptions to make the reader walk in the shoes of Jackie Mann and the people in his life.<br />For instance, prior to reading this book, I never quite empathized with the countless down and out African American men I've see on the streets -- men like Jackie's father. In contrast to such men, the African American men I was surrounded by as a child were educated and good providers. On an intellectual level I could understand why the men on street corners, drugged out or drunk, were so defeated. But until now I never FELT their dilemma.<br />\\"A Conversation With the Mann\\" is a tonic that should be taken by all Americans who are tired of the issue of race, because it makes you understand how and why the issues of race intertwined with greed have turned this nation into what it is today. It's a book which should be nominated for all of the nation's major literary prizes.	2002-08-11
US	49880415	R1I30C9916TUNR	0060984384	649757762	Our Kind of People: Inside America's Black Upper Class	Books	2	19	22	N	N	Informative But Misrepresentative	Lawrence Otis Graham wrote a book that ended up being disliked by plenty  of Afro-Americans (as the reviews on this site make clear), yet hugely  popular. And one must wonder about this development. Like many readers I  found the book to be mediocre and felt annoyed with Graham for claiming  that the Afro-American elite are principally concerned about who your  family is, no matter what you, personally, have accomplished. In that he is  thoroughly wrong. Maybe a very very tiny fraction of the elite is obsessed  with something so trivial and insignificant. But coming from a family who  has been part of the elite for quite some time and having grown up amongst  plenty such people, I can attest that no one I know of would think less of,  say, an Afro-American cardiovascular surgeon who grew up in a public  housing project, never knew his father, and had eight siblings all by  different fathers. In fact, they would probably feel more respect for him  for having risen from such an environment to accomplish all he did, than  someone of the same profession who came from a home where his parents were  doctors or lawyers. So I can understand the anger of a lot of people at  Graham for giving such a misimpression in a book that the major media has  implied is the first and last word on the Afro-American upper class.<br />Then  there is the other issue that seems to have stuck like a bone in the  throats of a lot of Afro-American readers. The color caste system amongst  the elite. First, I don't think that it's nearly as important as it was  many many years ago. And second, I think that it is a misplaced concern.  What I mean by that is that  the real issue with regard to Afro-Americans  and beauty is less that of color than it is other features, such as whether  or not one has a chiseled nose (an issue that obviously was important to  Graham who had plastic surgery on his), the right shaped lips, etc. And to  prove the point ask yourself, How many men would turn down the lovely  dark-skinned Naomi Campbell in favor of an overwieght, light, bright, damn  near &quot;white&quot; woman? Of course the answer is few to none. <br />But  this issue of what physical features are considered most beautiful is  hardly limited to Afro-Americans. Countless Caucasians of different  ethnicities have gotten nose jobs like Graham did (for instance Jews). And  numerous Jews and other immigrants changed their names once they arrived in  the U.S. to sound more anglo. Everyone who ever appeared on these shores to  pursue a better life aspired to assimilate as best they could so that they  could be accepted by the majority. Yet the only group who has engaged in  extraordinary self-flagelation over this yearning (and at the encouragement  of those eager to make us feel like second class citizens) have been  Afro-Americans. We need to accept it as just one of many indications that  we are just as human as everyone else.<br />In sum, Graham's book is  informative. But it is also misrepresentative. And the pity is that in a  media world that tends to pick out one source to represent different  aspects of Afro-American life, it has received inordinate attention  compared to other books that give a far more nuanced picture of the  Afro-American upper class. But that's the world we live in. And I remain  baffled as to why if so many people hate &quot;Our Kind of People,&quot;  it's been so popular.	2000-09-16
US	49880415	R3AT6VD82IZJKQ	0684836696	770654209	Losing the Race: Self-Sabotage in Black America	Books	2	23	66	N	N	Simplistic Analysis of a Complex Problem	Conservatives and neoconservatives alike are, no doubt, rejoicing at this latest find: a &quot;black&quot; man who confirms their very notions about &quot;his people.&quot; Because in finding and supporting what he has to say they take the heat off of themselves for their racial bias. ....<br />Is there truth to McWhorter's notion of self-sabotage in the Afro-American community? Of course there is.  .... Where McWhorter is wrong is the same place his fans are wrong: lumping all Afro-Americans together as part of this phenomenon and claiming that it is the victim mindset that is the principal problem holding Afro-Americans back.<br />An Afro-American can be the brightest, most driven person in American society and still encounter huge obstacles to his success, not the least of which is trying to function in a Caucasian male dominated culture that is threatened by the first sign of an Afro-American (particularly male) with the same brash self-confidence and determination to take risks that is applauded in charismatic, swashbuckling Caucasian males. .... McWhorter castigates people like Ellis Cose, whose excellent book &quot;Rage of a Privileged Class&quot; documents just how difficult life is for the very kind of proud, intelligent, ambitious, hardworking Afro-Americans McWhorter imnplies there aren't enough of. Shelby Steele's brother, Claude Steele, a psychologist, has conducted studies which clearly establish that it is society's marking of Afro-Americans as something apart that plays a role in convincing Afro-American students that they can't excel. Hence it is a major contribution (probably the major contribution) to low academic performance. Which is to say that the problem is symbiotic.<br />And one must wonder how it is that McWhorter, if he has any self-respect, has allowed himself to fall into the trap of claiming that every small advance made by Afro-Americans is a cause for celebration if you measure it in comparison to their predicament 50 years earlier.This is a favorite argument of the two Caucasians (the Thernstrom duo) who have blurbed the back of his book and smacks of the same mentality of segregationists in the early 20th century who told Negroes not to complain about Jim Crow because compared to where they were in 1860 (working the fields as slaves), their lives had registered a major improvement. Never mind that the typical ambitious, educated Caucasian today would hardly accept second class treatment for a minute by using the rationale that at least he wasn't in the predicament of, say, his poor Irish immigrant ancestors at the end of the 19th century when signs read &quot;No dogs or Irish allowed.&quot; So he should count his blessings.<br />Lastly, McWhorter, like the conservatives and neoconservstives who are applauding him, takes weak examples of &quot;racial progress&quot; and claims that Afro-Americans are overlooking them as part of their insistence on remaining victims. For instance, there is his example of Hollywood buddy films such as the Danny Glover/ Mel Gibson Lethal Weapon series. That Gibson always played the more well-rounded character and Glover played second fiddle, is, in the opinion of McWhorter, nothing to be concerned about (I take that to mean &quot;blacks&quot; should be grateful that Glover wasn't playing Gibson's valet or caddy). Similarly he cites the film &quot;One Night Stand,&quot; starring Wesley Snipes and Nastassja Kinski as adulterous interracial lovers who eventually marry, as another example of progress in Hollywood.  But he doesn't go all the way in his analysis. I remember when &quot;One Night Stand&quot; premiered. And it wasn't Afro-Americans intent on seeing life through the lens of the victim who played the crucial role in turning that movie into a box office flop. The film wasn't even principally about the Snipes/Kinski romance. And there wasn't a single frame in which their racial difference was mentioned. It was also about a straight male (played by Snipes) confronting the slow death of a gay friend (played by Robert Downey Jr.). And it was Caucasian film critics who zeroed in on the interracial romance to the exclusion of all else, asking the rhetorical question, &quot;Will Americans go see a movie involving romance between a black man and a white woman?&quot; The answer was a resounding &quot;No!&quot;<br />All of this is to say that McWhorter's book is another disingenuous tome that doesn't serve up the truth. It merely functions as one more cog in a polemical steamroller bearing down from the right that searches for simple answers to complex questions.	2000-09-12
US	49880415	RPEZLJOY46XAS	0684838087	704582045	Weird Like Us: My Bohemian America	Books	1	4	13	N	N	I Gave it One Star Because there is no rating of Zero	I remember  when this book came out and Ms. Power's employer, the New York  Times, gave it two (not one but two) glowing reviews and their rating  &quot;And Bear in Mind&quot; which they give only to books they feel are of  critical significance. Then I picked it up in a bookstore and couldn't  believe how atrocious and self-absorbed the writing was. I compared it to  other recent books I've read that got less attention from the Times and  shook my head. That's when I realized that even the grand pooh-baahs of the  media could be biased, that it was quite obvious they gave this trash the  attention they did because Ms. Powers is an employee. You read her music  reviews in the Times, and again, you have to wonder: what ever made anyone  think this woman was anything close to being a good writer? Is the pop  music critic market so thin that they had to employ her? Apparently the  answer is yes. If anyone needs any proof that politics rules EVERYTHING in  this culture then they need point to no better example than the critical  reception on the part of the most influential newspaper in the nation to  this trash and the bylined articles this particular employee of that  newspaper writes every time she files a story.	2000-08-28
US	49880415	R3ELY7HS33M66T	0060925949	32503346	The Rage of a Privileged Class: Why Are Middle-Class Blacks Angry? Why Should America Care?	Books	5	33	37	N	N	Exemplary Job of Analyzing a Problem that Persists	I read this book about a year after it first came out, but returned to it today after reading a New York Times Magazine piece on how Citigroup CEO  Sandy Weill made it to the top. The reason the article made me pull Cose's  book out of my bookcase again was because over and over again it described  traits in Weill that experience taught me, and Cose's book confirmed would  have resulted in the end of his career if he had been an Afro-American  male: brash self-confidence; the tendency to explode in tirades at  associates then at subordinates but make up with them with no dire effect  on his career progress; a love of taking risks, etc. My own experience in  the world of corporate journalism had long ago taught me that if an  Afro-American male expects to survive in the corporate world, the last  thing he better be is a brash, self-confident, risk taker (that will  automatically get him labeled as arrogant), or a person who shows any sign  of a temper (he'll be accused of an inability to get along with others or  work in a team).<br />And Cose's book is filled with interviews and  observations from Afro-Americans in banking, law, etc. who describe the  destruction or paralysis of their careers for the same reason I left  corporate journalism. All of this coupled with the lack of access to the  level of capital some of our Caucasian counterparts get access to (Weill  started on his road to becoming a man worth over $1 billion today by  borrowing $30,000 from his mother in 1960 as his share in helping launch a  financial services firm; $30,000 in 1960 is probably the same as at least  $100,000 in 2000; and how many Afro-Americans can go to mommy or daddy for  that kind of money?), makes for an intractablility to the Afro-American  predicament that is rarely recognized in the on-going and exhausted study  of the effects of race in this culture.<br />Add to this the preconcieved  notion in corporate America that Afro-Americans simply aren't intelligent  enough to handle&quot;real work&quot; as the subjects of Cose's book point  out over and over again, and it makes a person wonder how an Afro-American  can ever acheive his full potential. The insidious and subtle compromises  we have to make in virtually all fields except basketball, rap, and  football, are so daunting that I am now convinced that it is EXTREMEMLY  DIFFICULT for any Afro-American to make a major mark in this culture and  also escape major psychological damage.<br />The pity is that Cose's book is  not treated as perhaps the most crucial examination now in published book  form of the issue of why Afro-Americans have problems in this culture even  after being provided the best educational opportunities. Indeed I had  experience with some rather well-known neoconservatives who dismissed this  book because Cose talked to, among others, personal friends in compiling  his observations. That anyone would qualify that as a reason to dismiss his  findings indicates the depth of the dissonance on this subject between  intelligent Afro-Americans and a lot of allegedly intelligent and respected  Caucasians. Which doesn't bode well for the future of race relations.  Unfortunately, as a previous reviewer noted, the people who have read and  will continue to read this book are principally the people who already know  the extent to which it is telling the truth about life for even the most  ambitious, intelligent, hard-working Afro-Americans.	2000-08-28
US	49880415	R3PAHSQXJFU1KQ	0525945245	976247392	The Debt : What America Owes to Blacks	Books	5	15	29	N	N	The reaction of some reviewers is a good bell weather	Randall Robinson has performed a service in writing this book. Unfortunately some of the readers who have reviewed this book negatively inadvertently reveal precisely why the racial problem remains what it is.  Implicit in what they say is the notion that something has been given to  Afro-Americans as though they are an alien presence who demonstrate nothing  but laziness and a lack of gratitude for what has been &quot;done&quot; for  them.<br />Missing from the analyses of the reviewers who insist on remaining  blind is any sense of the common connection they have with Afro-Americans.  The fact that not only are they due reparations for the hundreds of years  of free labor their ancestors provided, but because of the inheritance they  missed out on from slaveowning fathers who habitually enaged in sexual  relations with their slave women. As Frederick Law Olmsted made clear in  his landmark book &quot;Cotton Kingdom,&quot; the vast majority of Southern  Caucasian men engaged in such relations to the point where most  Afro-Americans share a common European ancestry with Caucasians. While some  of the offspring of these unions did inherit some property (usually much  less than their Caucasian half-sisters and brothers), most did not, meaning  that a whole lot of &quot;illegitimate&quot; children were disinherited (by  their deadbeat Caucasian fathers all forgotten by history as well as  conservatives such as the editorialists at the Wall Street Journal who, by  contrast, love to harp on the behavior of irresponsible Afro-American male  fathers).<br />Add to that the other portion of the reality that most  Americans refuse to face: the fact that 40% of Afro-Americans also have  Native American blood due to unions between slaves and Creek, Cherokee and  Seminole Native Americans in the South. Most Americans remain blind to the  fact that the sole subgroup in American culture disinherited from all other  aspects of their ancestry by virtue of the fact that they have black  African blood, are Afro-Americans. Therein lies the true tragedy of this  culture and the refusal of so many Americans to see the value of Robinson's  argument.<br />Every subgroup in American culture with whom Afro-Americans are  inappropriately compared has the luxury of knowing that in this society  they can work hard and move up in status because there is one subgroup whom  they will always be considered better than: Afro-Americans. Hence the blind  attitude prevalent among those who see themselves as white (and the  &quot;nonwhites&quot; without black African blood eager to assimilate) that  no matter how much an individual Afro-American achieves, he or she is still  answerable for the social and intellectual defects of those who have no  incentive to achieve anything at all.<br />Hand in hand with this attitude is  the blindness that claims that affirmative action has done a tremendous  amount for Afro-Americans, when all it has achieved is to allow many  Afro-Americans into well-paying window dressing positions. When it comes to  who exercises the power in our culture it has made little dent at all. Of  course there are the Oprah Winfreys and the Michael Jordans. But they are  the exceptions. No one could ever say that 12% of the Forbes 400 are  Afro-American, or 12% of the owners of major newspapers or T.V. stations,  or 12% of the law partners or partners in investment banking. <br />And when  ever the issue of Afro-American deficiency in these ranks is raised,  suddenly those who wish to remain blind reason that the deficiency exists  because of Afro-American incompetence. Rarely are they willing to discuss  the obvious incompetence of the George Bush Jr.'s of the world, or the Dan  Quayles, or the Ronald Reagans who clearly didn't get where they are due to  brainpower but rather because of their race and gender.<br />Robinson's book  is well-researched and well-written. The pity is that so many Americans who  need to read it won't, while most of thosewho do read it are already the  converted. Will we Afro-Americans ever receive reparations? Probably not.  However, as I concluded long ago with my own life, the fact that your  enemies are many and quite powerful is no argument against fighting them  anyway. One has to be able to live with himself and at least tell his  chidren that at least he put up the good fight, then pass the torch along  to them. For some of us, to do anything less would amount to losing all of  our sense of self-esteem in order to perhaps gain some of the world, yet  turn into hollow shells of real men and women.	2000-05-19
US	49880415	R1RCZSMX27BGFO	0062516078	564522465	The Measure of a Man	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Enlightening, But Still Disappointing	I bought this book because I was hoping that Poitier would say something about his life since his last autobiography, &quot;This Life.&quot; I was curious about wbat he had experienced since publishing that book about 20  (or close to 20) years ago. I kept reading and reading the same things I  read in &quot;This Life&quot; with an added metaphysical twist and the type  of inspirational Ophrah talk show-ese that makes books like this  bestsellers and grew more and more disappointed. Not that these insights  aren't worth writing down, but they barely add up to much more than  literary fastfood. As a man who has suffered the slings and arrows and joys  of being perceived as black by our society, I could certainly identify with  what Poitier says here. But I've heard and felt most of these insights  before. This book is worthwhile primarily for those who know nothing about  Poitier's life. For the rest of us I think it's best to pass on it.	2000-04-23
US	49880415	R2HN34KTVT2O4I	0062516078	564522465	The Measure of a Man	Books	3	13	21	N	N	Enlightening, But Still Disappointing	I bought this book because I was hoping that Poitier would say something about his life since his last autobiography, &quot;This Life.&quot; I was curious about wbat he had experienced since publishing that book about 20  (or close to 20) years ago. I kept reading and reading the same things I  read in &quot;This Life&quot; with an added metaphysical twist and the type  of inspirational Ophrah talk show-ese that makes books like this  bestsellers and grew more and more disappointed. Not that these insights  aren't worth writing down, but they barely add up to much more than  literary fastfood. As a man who has suffered the slings and arrows and joys  of being perceived as black by our society, I could certainly identify with  what Poitier says here. But I've heard and felt most of these insights  before. This book is worthwhile primarily for those who know nothing about  Poitier's life. For the rest of us I think it's best to pass on it.	2000-04-23
US	49880415	R27CRKYZC3VVRK	0684840022	864239842	Rising Tide: The Great Mississippi Flood of 1927 and How it Changed America	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A Book That Deserved the Pulitzer and all other major awards	I can't tell you how much I loved this book. Without question it is one of the ten most fascinating books I've ever read. I read it when it first came out as part of the research for my own recently published second book. I  was amazed that it didn't receive the kind of hoopla that so many  undeserving books receive. Barry did an exemplary job of exposing the  psyche of the Southern way of thinking and the Caucasian migration into the  Mississippi Delta, and the gravity of what Afro-Americans were dealing with  in the region. Publishers are you listening? Put this guy at the top of  your list for authors who deserve richly rewarding book contracts!	2000-03-21
US	49880415	R1DKKX2TFMPCDA	0684848155	553694758	Underworld: A Novel	Books	1	5	12	N	N	I tried reading it when it first came out...	After reading the absolutely and almost uniformly glowing reviews that this book received when it first came out, I tried to express my  bewilderment on Amazon.com that the grand pooh baahs of the critical  community chose this book as possibly the Great American Novel. For some  reason my comments didn't register (perhaps I did something wrong). I'll  try again. I have never read a more overwritten, tedious, example of how my  11th grade English teacher told me NOT TO WRITE. I mean, what were the  critics thinking in so heavily lauding this book? I am of the school of  thought that a writer should say what he or she means as concisely as  possible. I absolutely detest the cutesy, flourishing manner of writing  that so many people think constitutes good writing. In this book at least,  Delillo knows nothing about making his point succinctly. He seems to be  more in love with the process of trying to say something with as many  adjectives, and as much metaphor, etc. as he can, than in saying anything  truly profound. I remain baffled with regard to how the grand king makers  of the literary community think.	2000-03-16
