US	49898048	R3G40XLISNXNWN	038071521X	217443132	Carve the Sky	Books	5	8	8	N	N	inventive and auspicious debut of high class	This is a gem of a book which I found by pure coinsidence in a small libraby. It is one of those futuristic novels which reawakens ones primal passion for the SF genre. It is a very sophisticated novel with the most lovable heroes. The plot equals the masters of the genre and a language like an aribian tresure. Zelazny said of this book, that it is everything a good science fiction novel should be - memorable characters, a well-realized future  milieu, clever plotting, appropriate pacing. And he loved every minute of it.  What more can be said?	2002-04-11
US	49898048	R1O0XKVFND36AY	0451458052	462210245	Beyond The Blue Moon (Hawk & Fisher)	Books	4	5	7	N	N	Funny, different and interesting	I have not read blue moon raising, before I read Beyond and did not even know it excisted before I read the other reviews. It stands perfectly well on its own and I might still read the blue moon raising.<br />For mee the best part of this story is the humor in it. Its quite as funny as the Taltos books of steven Brust, probably one of the most funny sci-fi writers around. The story itself is also good, not to much of the stuff you think will come (the aint-I-smart-I-knew-what-would-happend stuff). The story is also quite refreshing in its ability to discuss many of the philosophical questions around gods, interference and free will. There are obviosly hidden references to much and to many historical people here. At the same time the plot itself is good again without falling into to much black and white trap as many fantasy novels tend to do. I also like his gutsy women, its a lot of girlpower in this book.<br />For the humour I give it a five, for the inventive story behind the story I  give it a four, for the story itself a three, all in all a quite good four.	2001-07-29
US	49898048	R1FIQM62WDP816	0380796104	122477335	Lucy Sullivan Is Getting Married	Books	3	0	1	N	N	Very funny but to long	If you have never read one of Marian Keyes books, do not start with this one. If you read Watermelon or Rachels Holiday and liked them, you should also like the story about Lucy.<br />But it is far to long. The begining is very funny then the middle of the book is too long but still Ok (for fans of Keynes) and then the end is quite good again. So four stars for beggining and end and two for the long middle part. 740 pages was a bit much for me, especially since any intelligent person will know after the first 50 pages who she will marry. Anyone who have read Jane Austen will probably know it after page 20.<br />If you want a really good read try Keyes other books, if you have read them try David Baddiel: Time for bed (Well read if anyway).<br />But as mentioned I had much fun reading this book. She has a wonderful witty style that comes across to the reader in abundance yet she can also write about the hard times in life that we can all recognize. <br />Lucy Sullivan is single, works at a dull, dead end job and lives with two flatmates - Karen, semmes to be somewhat egotistical and ruthless one and Charlotte, seems the more sweet and somewhat ditzy other one. But as with other of Keynes books, keep your opinions open for adjustment on the way.<br />Her office workers convince her to go to a fortune teller who announces, among other things, that Lucy will be married within the year. Lucy, like this reader would have done, laughs this prediction off but as her officemates predictions begin to come more or less true one can't help but think that Lucy may be in for Mr. Right. <br />So if you like a long read and have the time for it and gave her other books four or more stars, give it a try. If not wait for her next book or read something else and better.	2001-05-06
US	49898048	R2F1BL4LRYBX97	0553380958	445913	Snow Crash	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Garvin and Blaise in metaspace	I really enjoyed reading this fairy tale of a book. It is a sometimes funny tale of the future with heroes, love, Pizza Kourirs, skateboards, Aleutians, mobsters, modern days samurais, revenge and high adventure. It is a metaspace romp that will entertain many and agitate some.<br />It is a quick moving story where Hiro in many ways is the young Willy Garvin and the female hero is a even young version of Modesty Blaise. They are happily not limited to live only in reality, but can also exist in virtuality, where one can have a totale different and sometimes more significant role than in normal life.<br />The plot revolves around a drug called Snow Crash which is available both in Virtual and Real reality. After one of his friends becomes infected by this 'drug', Hero and skate-boarding Y.T. must investigate who is behind the snow scheme and stop the onrushing Infopocalypse. Along the way they meet an assortment of characters: a psychotic Aleut who uses razor-sharp knives to fight with, a wonderful funny cybernetic dog that can run at Mach2 (and is worth reading the book for alone. Enjoy the wonderful dog - gooooood dog! Sit!!!!), a Mafia Pizza Mogul with a heart (but for whom and what ?). The settings range from the city-states of ancient Sumer to Virtual Reality libraries to a huge surplus aircraft carrier/floating city in the middle of the Pacific Ocean. <br />Why then does so many readers trash this story; Some do not believe in its bleak future (its science fiction!), some dont like that its the bleak future of USA (its science fiction!!), some dont like name of the main character ( its sc....well you know what I am going to say - ), some thought they were going to read an updated copycat Neuromancer story (ask for the money back if you dare), some just didnt like the story (but still got agitated enough so that they sat down and wrote a review), some didnt like the end (almost nothing is perfect in this world) - anyway I gave it a four and not a five!<br />If you think some of the list just above could agitate you, please stay away from this book. If you dont mind some minor glitches in a story and are not overcritical and love a fairytale with born again Modesty &amp; co read it for fun.	2001-04-24
US	49898048	R25V45S38LTOLY	0060930535	951868170	The Poisonwood Bible (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Brilliant litterature which gives insight	I enjoyed the reading of this book so much, and also the feeling it gave that now I could understand more about the people of Congo. How the book made the peple there more real and how recent happenings in Congo suddenly made sense. <br />I also enjoy the way Kingsolver manage to make 6 very different people come alive trough this story and how she manage to let each of them help forward the story and at the same time give faces to different ways we humans handle hardship and challenges. The technique of allowing each of the five women to have chapters of their own was wonderful, especially since the father, who as the driving force of the family and whom made them all go there, had no voice at all! I agree with the reviewer that said it was like he was the eye of the hurricane: full of his empty promises, with zero understanding of the situation around him and his  all-consuming, petty inability to be anything other than such a self sentered and diapointing person. <br />I loved Kingsolver's discussion of local languages and how she played with words and sentences: evil live. devil lived.<br />Not only have I a feeling of having enjoyed myself and laughed and felt for the people of Congo and the american family, but I also meet Elie, my old teacher of Christianity trough this pages. I remember vividly her showing us photoes of her as  a missionair (as was both her brothers) bringing the white mans god into darkest Africa, as she put it. Suddenly I could remember the photoes she used to send around in class of  X-mas dinners, where only those who went regulary to church could enjoy the heaps of food. I also remember her talk about her dear chocolate children, and the photoes of them with their big unhealthy bellys. But my strongest memmory is the smiles of the same people and the happiness they often radiated. So unlike Elie.<br />A lot of reviewers of this book has split into two camps. The ones who feel this is a angry attack on christianity and those who like thebook whatsoever.<br />I have one message to those of you who trash this book as an attack on christianity because it tells a story about such a egosentric and miserable missonair as Nathan. If you see this as an attack on your religion, you obviosly do not accept that anyone who calls themself christian can be a bad person. That is very interesting in itself.<br />I am really impressed with this book, which is my first experience with Kingsolver. I advice all readers (whatever belief) to read the book yourself and to enjoy Kingsolvers great storytelling. She is a great writer and this is a great book.	2001-01-27
US	49898048	R7S940ZIOIYKE	0385475721	850910906	The Blind Assassin	Books	4	4	4	N	N	It stays with you long	a book review should try to be honest and it should also try to give information to the reader that would make you either want to read the book or perhaps postpone reading it to later or let it go (hey nonny nonny).<br />The Blind Assassin is not a book that makes you smile when you finish it, or make you sad because you have reached the last pages, or make you decide to reared it soon or next year. There are many reasons why this is so; the main reason for me is that it have not still left me. I have read it but I am not finished with it. <br />It is a bit hard to read, its complex, so not a book for those who likes just easy stories that starts on A and ends on Z. One of thereasons for this is that the Blind Assassin is two stories that are entwined and which makes the reading a bit different from normal A-Z stories. In one part of the story we follow a couple of sisters and there life, in the second we are presented for parts of a famous novel written by one of the sisters. Confused? Well then, is not often life itself confusing. But could you state; do we want the novels we read to be confusing as well? And I would have to respond, no, but likewise if all novels were straightforward A-Z, where would the mystery be, the complexity, the compelling and mesmerizing stories where you do not end the book when you finish the last pages. <br />Atwood has delevered a very strong story that should be read carefully all the way to the end. I had to halt my reading midway and let my hardcover copy lay for 5 weeks (I did not want to drag it along travelling)but picked it up whan back home and it was as if I had hardly been away from it. So, its obviosly not that complicated. I advice you to be commited and take the time to savor her descriptions and her voices as a journey through someone's life. If you do have interruptions, be reassure that you won't lose the thread of the storyline. <br />I highly recommend this book to anyone and everyone! You won't regret it. And I haveadded Atwood to my list over great Canadian writers alongside Robertson Davis and Timothy Findley.	2001-01-27
US	49898048	R1MSIIZFYSV9ZU	068818071X	519845136	Rachel's Holiday	Books	4	10	10	N	N	funny, good catchy story	I read this story a couple of days after I read Watermelon (also by Marian Keyes) and I liked it even better. Rachel's Holiday is a perfect choice if you are looking for some quality light reading. Keyes still uses the same technique as in Watermelon, where Rachel talks directly to us and therefor is our only source of information about herself in the first half of the book. Later we get some more information about her trough the metings with others. It is written in the same chatty, humorous tone that makes all of Keyes' novels such a pleasure to read, but this story is a little different and a little more daring. <br />When we first meet her, she is about to be admitted to the Cloisters, a Irish sort of Betty Ford Clinic. She is in denial. Anyone who has had personal experience with addicts (of one kind or another) will recognize how they may fool you (and sometimes themselves). In the first part of the book, she seems pretty shallow and definitely a bit dense, but she grows as a person through her therapy and her friendships with other recovering addicts. Rachel has not really got a clue about who she is in the beginning and why she is becoming an addict. She develops as a person in and trough the story and grows to become something more than a cartoon figure or a heroine of a cheap weekly magazine story. Keyes has written this story with much fine humor and I laughed out loud many times to the great fun of those who were around me. <br />Two warnings: Highbrows who do not enjoy light reading should stay away from this book and secondly if you do not like happy endings of any kind, please also stay away from this book.	2001-01-24
US	49898048	R2IPV730EAX68W	0380796090	962133592	Watermelon	Books	4	10	12	N	N	A very easy, good and funny read	I loved this book - first of all because it's such a good story, but still a very easy read. I got it myself from a friend and I've already passed it along to another friend and I highly recommend it to most readers.  <br />The book is written as if the &quot;hero&quot; Claire is talking to you, which means you really identify with her and all her insecurities. Claire's family are excellent secondary characters, and the male hero &quot;Adam&quot;  was maybe a bit too good (and to good looking) to be true, but I have meet men that was quite much like that! Claire comes out as a belivable and interesting person, someone it would be nice to know. She is funny and warm and and also brave, so I found it quite inspiring in many ways. I specially liked the way the story changes your impression about Claire (and the way she also learned more herslef about who she was or had been. <br />Sometimes single women type books can be quite irritating, but Marian Keyes' are fabulous. Claire is funny  I read Watermelon in almost in one go, which is quite something as it's not a short book.  I read it late into the night, until I could read no more, and finally finished it early next morning. Marian Keyes has also written Rachels Holliday which I also liked very much (even better) and which is about one of Claires sisters! <br />Some people compare this to &quot;Bridget Jones&quot;, and they have something in common, but mostly that they are about women and the frustrations of life and love. Others may feel this is not an intelligent enough book. So, its easy reading, what so? It is very well written, funny and makes life a bit more fun. A very good read for a vacation or for travelling. Highbrows who do not like  &quot;feel good&quot; books are hereby warned - stay away.	2001-01-23
US	49898048	R20NIZ921I9TWE	0804117683	79568500	Moo	Books	4	2	4	N	N	A week four, but still a good book	Jane Smiley know how to spin a good story and she is a good storyteller even sometimes a great one. She is also a entertainer with a sense of humor and can craft good stories. Moo university and its inhabitants is a charming placefor those who have been to a university: For those who should have liked to studied it may give some glimpse of how universities sometimes may be no more than a place for devious intrigues and plots. Smiley has a wicked wit which in my experience describes (some of) the kind of people one finds in these kind of &quot;institutions&quot;.  Jane has earlier won the Pulitzer price for A thousand Acres, which I also liked. Moo is also a book worth spending time and money on. Though on my harsh scale it gets week 4, which is still very good.	2000-10-26
US	49898048	R2LI7VSPZ6WLR3	0385493703	577685195	Hullabaloo in the Guava Orchard	Books	5	0	0	N	N	India in our hearts	Hullabaloo in the Guava Orchard is a very positive reading experience; a carnival of tastes, smells, emotions and devotions. It is a smiling journey trough a India that are getting more and more interesting for each new writer and each book out of this human wise &quot;continent&quot; of its own. Kiran makes India more accessible for those of us who has never been there, and must be one of several writers that are responsible for more and more people wanting to see India with their own eyes. I myself reacted this way, and that must surely be one proof of the quality of the book. Kiran like other first rate writers lets us travel to new places and meet new people. I would like to thank her for that.<br />In the book she introduces us to several families in a small Indian town and let us experience their hopes and their longings for the future.The main character is a day dreamer that everyone once had big expectations for. Kiran portrays his suprising (also for him self) rise to fame. Reading it gave me both some of the same feelings and pleasures as reading Vikrahm Seth: A suitable young man, and A house for Mr. Biswas, by V.S. Naipaul and Arundathi Roy: A Good for small things. <br />I´m impressed with the humor in the book and how she achieve being funny without diminishing her characters. Some one mentioned it as an Indian Confederacy of Dunces, but it is much more than that. But I also agree that it was equally funny. I will keep a sharp look out for further books from Kiran Desai in the future.	2000-10-21
US	49898048	R2TRRO53R053SF	0060925000	832364601	A Suitable Boy	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A suitable book for all who loves good literature	This book is a tour de force a Forsyth saga of India, but much more complex in its narration and its depth. Reading this is like getting another life served on a plate; As time moves in a life you meet new people, get to know them, like them even love some of them. By more or less mysterious ways some of them disappear, never to be seen again. Some people pop up at unexpected places, some moves in and out with regularity, some stays in your hearth for ever. This book is exactly like that. Fortunately it is a long book, so you do n not only get a new life, but a fairly long one also! The worst part of the book is again as in life, when the book moves on you realise that you do not know if you are going to meet your favorites again. The delight when you meet some of them again are often just as unexpected as in real life. It is a few times exceeded by the sadness of realizing that Vikram kept some of them to himself.<br />I recently had the great joy of seeing a long TV program with Vikram Seth and his family. One of the best sides of this was that I got to meet some flesh and blood versions of some of my favorites in the book. Vikrams mother had lent some of her personality to several of the fictious characters in the book, and also several of the other relatives. It was so delightful and only raised my opinion about Seth, who in the program came out as a very sensible young man. Suitable also! It was TV on its very best.<br />For those who liked this book as much as me I would advice them to read Arundathi Roy, Kiran Desai or V.S. Naipaul.	2000-10-21
US	49898048	R3VNIU9V78WVIN	0684855364	181423734	A SONG OF STONE: A Novel	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Banks fan, this is a nightmare, beware	To all Banks fans, be warned. <br />This is not a &quot;normal&quot; Ian Banks or Ian M. Banks book. This is a mix of Kafka, Gombrowitch, non-heroic-sinister-second-world-war movies and some of the excesses in the war in the former Yugoslavia, all stirred in a black cauldron. The result is a mix that shook me, but the book is not without positive merits. I did finish it and I was eager to finish it (but not looking forward to reading it), and I liked it in some ways. <br />I would not have given it to my uncle who managed to survived the concentration camps, and not to someone who was depressed. I am not even sure I will ever recommend it to a friend ever. It had to be someone who needed to learn to see that there exist bad alternatives in this world. Maybe someone who needs to be reminded that life under certain conditions in a certain historic setting can be like this. Bleak, another reviewer correctly named it.<br />I recently heard Banks speak at a book festival and he told us that some time ago the Inland Revenue Service had taken an interest in him and his finances.  I sort of hope that this was his inspiration to write this book, and that the fact that the IRS discovered that he had paid to much tax (!) and that he would get the surplus back, will be his inspiration for future books, where he would use some of the great humour he has;)<br />I have in my life meet people who reminded me of the main characters, and they scared me. Some of them also obviously scared themselves, but the most scary ones was those who were (probably) not scared by anything, and least by themselves.In this way Banks has written an important book which cannot fail to make an impression. Where the main characters in this book belong, you will have to decide for yourself. If you enjoy Kafka, this may be something for you. If not?	2000-10-09
US	49898048	R21LWA7F2Q2E8B	0684853159	2967327	The WASP FACTORY: A NOVEL	Books	5	0	4	N	N	This can not be an Ian M. Banks book	I have not read this book, but I will. My only reason for writng this is that this is supposedly an Ian M. Banks book. <br />As far as I know this is not an Ian M. Banks book, i.e. its a Ian Banks book. <br />This means it is a book written by the exact (I hope for his sake) same man, but written in a different tradition. Does that really matter, you may ask. Yes it should, because this is not a science fiction book! Banks write &quot;normal&quot; books under Ian Banks and science fiction under Ian M. Banks; just check the cover on the top of the Amazones page and you will seee that I am right - or the cover is wrong (whatever). <br />Ian Banks writes science fiction under the name Ian M. Banks. Thats well known. I was lucky enough to hear him talk about his books in Edinburgh a couple of months ago where he got a question about why he uses the M. He told us that it was his publisher who wanted him to use the M. to send a signal to readers that these books were different (science fiction). The M. he explained came from his grandfather who was a miner, and whos name was Banks Mingus, and who at some time had to flee the law. To be sure that he would not be found he switched the names and became Mingus Banks, so thats where the M comes from.<br />As I have to give it stars I will give it 5. If I am wrong, I will write a new review and recify it.	2000-10-08
US	49898048	R19RBYDBU4OFN2	0671036688	733935310	Inversions	Books	4	0	1	N	N	More fantasy than traditonal science fiction	Of all the science fiction books, Ian M. Banks have written this is the one that people who like his &quot;normal&quot; Ian Banks books may like. This is partly because it is more like a medival story, a fantasy with limited fantasy in it. If you can swallow two suns, you can swallow this book. I give it four and a half star, its to good for four and not a total five.<br />I recently had the pleasure of hearing Ian Banks at the book festival in Edinburgh, where he read from a new book he is writing. He got the obvious question why he writes under the to different versions of his name (Ian Banks nad Ian M. Banks). The reason was basically that his publisher wanted him to use the M., to send a signal to his readers that these books were different. The M. he explained came from his grandfather who was a miner, and whos name was Banks Mingus, and who at some time had to flee the law. To be sure that he would not be found he switched the names and became Mingus Banks, so thats explains the M..<br />Banks strongest side, besides his humour, is that he is able to create very symphatetic and interesting characters. Characters that we the readers want to follow and which makes the stories interesting. So also in this book where we meet the personal physician to King Quience, Doctor Vosill: who like many women before her meets mistrust because of her superior medical knowledge and prejudice against her as a woman (this may be a distinct medival side of this book). The other &quot;hero&quot; DeWar, meanwhile, is principal bodyguard to another regent in another country General UrLeyn, and struggles to safeguard his too-trusting charge in an  dangerous world. <br />In alternating chapters of the novel, the two narrators (who are not our heroes) are so personally involved in the events that we the readers cannot be complete sure about the truth. <br />And this is both the strength and maybe also a weakness of the book. What can you trust, who can you trust and where will it all end? So be adviced, you may have to use your brains a bit to follow the story. If you do not like that, keep away from it.	2000-10-08
US	49898048	R24FYSI6744K32	0312168233	857835396	The Englishman's Boy	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Robertson Davies, here is someone who can take over	This is a very good book, especially for someone who liks a good story. <br />Canadian writer Guy Vanderhaeghe who won Canada's prestigious Govenor General's Award for this novel, is a very good storyteller. Everyone who have been waiting for someone to take over for Robertson Davies will be pleased by this book.<br />The main character is quite a character (both of them) and the storyteller becomes one of those people you adopt and bring with you in your life. I am not sure I would have done the same things he did, I wouldnt have let Rachel be just Rachel, thats for sure. But I am not going down that road, thats for you to do.<br />I see everyone (wow all 11, is it that few reviews because its written by a Canadian?) give it five stars, well so do I. Because I do not want to be the Jonah, the one who breaks the good trend. And it also deserves a lot of stars. I will definately read more of Vanderhaeghe´s books and a will await new books with great anticipation.	2000-10-06
US	49898048	RV24TMBKKD3HR	156947169X	428805481	The LONG FIRM	Books	5	1	3	N	N	Inside the heads of 5 people I wouldn´t ordinary get to know	Those who have seen the Kurosawa film, Rashimon, knows Arnotts technique. Tell a story or parts of it from different peoples viewpoint and the right writer can deliver pure gold. This is gold and has very few weakneses. Its a great achivment and I am so impressed with his fresh new style (he reminds me of no other writer, though the book has some of the same intensity as Tim Wintons, the Riders or Fowles, the Magus). <br />This is such a brilliant first book, so please stay away from those reviewers who insist on telling you what the book is about.  It is a very inventive read, that grabbed me and dragged me trough clubs and settings I wouldn´t normally visit or take an interest in. Not that many writers manage to shift his voice, tone, setting and intelligence (or lack of it) from one person to another and thus create interest and symphaty in (from) people that one normally would not like or feal any emphaty for whatsoever. There is much charisma in this book, the type that most of us will recognize and sometimes be sucked up by while most often we will run like scared chickens and as quickly as we can (and know instinctly we did the right, whatever the other option might be). It is also challenging in ways &quot;normal&quot; books arent. What is normal is a good question? Read the book and decide for yourself. <br />Arnott impresses me with his peoples knowledge and I am really happy its being made into a mini TV series. Happy that I managed to read it before watching it on the telly. I read that Jake Arnott worked as a mortuary technician, laborer, artist's model, actor, and sign-language interpreter, as well as enjoying many fruitful periods of unemployment. <br />I wish him many more such fruitful periods.	2000-10-01
US	49898048	R1HEDAQSN5GPA9	0140293248	221101137	The Girls' Guide to Hunting and Fishing	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A female Salinger?	This is a bunch of short stories sold as a novel. I useually hate short stories. If it is a great story, I would like to have more, if it lousy,  why should I even read it? This is a lot of great stories, with a tender,  witty, even funny tone sometimes. They are full of emotional insight, as  J.D.Salingers books were and with the same kind of interesting and lovable  character (s) in it. This book has nothing to do with Bridget Jones books,  and is probably not a good book for the person who only takes time to reads  on vacations twice a year.<br />This is a book about real people, with  fragments of Jane Rosenals life, glimpses of what is and what could have  been and of a very charmy, very beautiful person who I would have loved to  meet (and who I have realise now, I have already meet a few times!). If you  are a reader and like writers like Salinger, Barbara Trapido, Gontsjarev,  Tagaki, Murakami etc, then this may be the book for you also. Its more a  four and half star than a four.	2000-08-17
US	49898048	R10247ARU38859	0679767398	231777935	South of the Border, West of the Sun: A Novel	Books	4	3	3	N	N	North of the sun, south of the moon	Murakami veawes his own universes where you can choose to follow him or choose to let him go (and be you bligh and bonny). In this book he  describes a teenagers/mans life and his obsession with purity and love  before sex comes into the picture. It starts when  he gets to know a  teenage girl (his own age) who is also an outsider. Trough long walks and  talks, music and sharing space they become the best of friends. After she  moves away from him he never dares to contact her again, maybe because he  is afraid that his memories are not correct. Maybe because he brings  unhappines to others (still insecure) and because he is also afraid to do  this to his best friend. Or maybe because he now is afraid of being  rejected as a man.<br />He is in short obsessed with her memory and when she  one night walks into his bar he wakes up and goes from excisting to living,  from sleepwalking to being alive to the full extent.<br />This is not the  anarchistic Murakami of the Wild sheep hunt or Dance, dance, dance. This is  a slower, more mature book, with little humour. But it is a book that grips  me and let me live another persons life and which make me rethink my own  obsessions, my escapees (where ever they are) and which gives a lot. This  book feels very honest and very real and it almost touches Ishiguro in its  sometimes sadnes. And if thats to much for you, then let it go!	2000-08-17
US	49898048	R2NUVJIXRL3CFU	0140280464	18229976	My Year of Meats	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Funny, satirical and deeply important	This book is one of the funniest and best books (its a 4 1/2 not a 5) I have read in a long time. I laughed so much that one of my friends and neighbors asked me why I was laughing so much. She borrowed it from me and  liked it and her boyfriend is reading it now. There are to few funny books,  I will soon write a list over my favorites on my amazon home page, and  share those I have found.<br />The humor reminds me a lot of Mark Twains funny  stories or Heinrich Bølls short stories. My year of meat clearly belongs to  a long tradition of satirical books like Gullivers travels, The princes  bride, Flowers to Algernoon, Calocain, Animal farm, 1984 etc. etc. Where  reality is mixed in such a way that we sees things in a new way. <br />Under  or behind all the humor there is a serious message: That the meat industry  needs to shape up (and governments need to control the cowboys who think  the way of the west is still the rule), and men should understand how this  effect their own health and also that male chauvinism is as outdates as the  use of DES or  human hormones in animal husbandry.<br />Having been quite  often to USA and even more in Japan ( I have good friends in both  countries) I feel entitled to say that the satirical tone of this book  discus some of the worst negative excesses of those two cultures. The  blatant hunt for the $ in the USA and the japanese male chauvinism. I like  Japan very much and I respect the japanese culture and people, but the old  fashioned male chauvinism that often seems to govern the elder generation  and that states that women are second rate compared to men amazes me. While  in (most of) the western world a woman without a husband or without  children is  respected, this does not seem to be the case in Japan.  Ozeki  has taken that part of japanese culture and made it public, and she  deserves a lot of thanks for that. <br />The beef industries hormone and  feeding practices does also need to be stopped. Mad cow disease clearly  shows a blatant disrespect for animals and for biology and for humans. We  do not want to be a part of such practices and industry that does not  understand that will not survive.<br />Reading the reviews also gave me a lot  of good laughs: the guy who felt that all the male characters were painted  black cannot live in the same world as myself. I am a man, and I have my  whole life meet a lot of men like those male chauvinist (pigs in this  context seems a great injustice to the animals) in the book. There are also  lots of nice men in the book, but because they are not described in a  sexual context that probably makes them unimportant as men for the  reviewer, who saw this as an attack on all manhood? That says a lot.<br />Ruth  L. Ozeki, I very much hope you will write more. I have also lived in BC for  a time and once thought I was going to move there. I hope I will get a  chance to see your two price winning films: Body of correspondence and  halving the Bones. Thank you for giving us such a funny and smart first  novel.<br />The danish write Suzanne Brøgger has been quotes as saying that  &quot;the tragedy of the world is that men loves women, women loves  children and children loves hamsters.&quot; I on my side love My Year of  Meat!	2000-06-28
US	49898048	RS3BUU9372RB4	0684825546	688704432	Zorba the Greek	Books	5	4	8	N	N	A book overflowing with important life wisdom	I had the great fortune of bringing this with me to Crete (not noing it takes place/was filmed there) and it was a very good setting for enjoying it.<br />This books overflows with good reasons for living and it helps you  understand that you should not postphone really living to later. It´s full  of wisdom (and not the cheape dime of dussin type either)! If everyone had  the life philosophy of Zorbas the world would be a better place. If  everyone in the world read this book it would improve this world. It is  also a very fine piece of litterature and is therefor on my top 25  list!<br />Kazanzakis is a very good ambassador for the greek people, but he  doesn´t paint them all white. He paints them as they are a fantastic  people, but three dimensional like all humans are. <br />I also loved the  movie, Anthony Quin was a very good Zorbas. <br />For those who are depressed  it will lift your spirits. For the rest of you it will make you smile and  rethink your values and your own life!	2000-03-31
US	49898048	R1P6HMY13EW45T	0802130208	161411385	A Confederacy of Dunces	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Will prolong the life of many (but not all) people	One of the reasons this book made it into my top 25 list (see homepage) is that I found it very funny.<br />I stopped laughing when I read the true story that the writer himself never got to see his book published and that in  fact no one wanted to publish it. His mother had to sit down in the office  of a a literature professors at some small university demanding that he  should read the manuscript, or she wouldn´t leave his office. He liked it  and helped get it published and it won the Pullizer prise the year it came  out.<br />Does anyone know how difficult it is to write good humour. There are  billions of suspense novels, zillions of contemporary novels, thrillions of  science fiction and fantasy books, but only a handful of really funny books  (Mark Twains short stories, The witches books of terry Pratchet, Calvin  &amp; Hobbs cartoons, the Topper books). John Kennedy Tool is a genius who  died to young and his hero, &quot;Ignatius J. Reilly is a grotesque, a  gargantua, who lumbers through New Orleans leaving chaos in his wake&quot;  and he also leaves chaos among the reviewers in Amazon.com and why? Because  humour are so difficult and so individual. Either you love it or you don´t.  Either or is normal.<br />A deeply funny book, that will prolong the life of  many people.	2000-03-27
US	49898048	R2ZVVH5IJ8MCP	0679731725	247754060	The Remains of the Day	Books	5	27	29	N	N	Do not try to hide from yourself: Carpe diem	This is one of the very best books I have read and as many good books it can be read on many levels. I find it to be the easiest book he have written. It is also made into a very good movie, with fabulous actors and  brilliant acting, a great achievement that has its own value and own  identity as one interpretation of the book. <br />One of Ishiguros main  messages is that if you will you can change your life. But sometimes it is  already to late, you had a chance and you didn't grasp it, and you are  stuck with the consequences. He also tries to get us to see that if you  choose to be a loyal part of something bigger, a corporation, a business,  even a household, you will still be responsible for whatever is done in the  name of that entity. You can of course pretend you do not know that your  boss is cooperating with people who are bigots and nazis. You can pretend  it does not concern you, because you are just doing your job. Like some  people in Germany closed their eyes to the concentration camps and some  Japanese closed their eyes to the atrocities done in the name of a god  (their emperor) and like other people later have done towards the treatment  of indians in south America etc. etc. If you choose to get close to the  center of history you may well be burned. Ishiguro once said in a interview  that &quot;one uses memory for ones own purpose, one's own ends&quot; and  that is why he writes in the first person form, to be able to follow  somebody's thoughts around,&quot; as they trip themself up or try to hide  from themself&quot;.<br />The remains of the day is Ishiguros way of telling  us to live to day and to grasp love when and if you find it and not to wait  until you are old. Carpe diem is one of his obvious messages in the book.  The remains of the day won the Booker price and it deserved it and he also  (to use soccer terminology) made a hat trick with it. Both his two first  books won prices, with  A Pale View of the Hills he won The Royal Societies  of Literature's Winifred prize and An Artist of the Floating World he won  the Whitbread prize.	2000-03-26
US	49898048	R2Y745K4FOUYGW	0671654160	18364777	Sheepfarmer's Daughter (The Deed of Paksenarrion Trilogy, Book 1)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A very good fantasy triology, one of the best	Paksenarrion is one of those heroes you start to love. I have lent my copy away to at least ten people and at least half of them bought their own copy after reading it!<br />I like very much all the three books in the Paks  triology and I find this the best of the work of Elizabeth Moon. Some of  her space opera is also quite good, but a bit easier reading <br />Elizabeth  Moon must have used her experiences as a woman in the armed forces to write  so good about wars and being a woman in a war. She also seemes to be able  to put her combat experience in good use in these books. I have no problems  believing in Paks and that is my ultimate proof that a book is good. I rate  Moon along writers as Gavriel Kay, Mary Brown, Tolkien, Eddings, Jordan (in  the first books in wheel of time series).<br />I gave this to my niece and she  loved it, so its also OK for 16 year olds. If you like good fantasy this is  a book for you!	2000-03-22
US	49898048	R22NU4KNY9NS5F	080501246X	51063647	The Glass Bead Game: (Magister Ludi) A Novel	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Under the mountains of the moon	This is Hesses testament and his most complex book. It took me 6 years to manage to read it, and I tried many times. If you want to read it you have to be prepared to put in an effort, if not, you should read his other books  before you decide if it is worth it. Start with Demian, before Sidharta or  the Steppenwolf (which is filmed and quite well also with Max von Sydow as  Henry Haller (HH!)).<br />If you want to get a feeling of the Glas Bead Game,  read the introduction and then skip to the last part; the short stories  which are excellent.<br />If you like this boook, you will probably also like  Zen and the art of Motorcycle maintainance by Pirsig, and you are probably  also addicted to works of writers like Dostojevsky or Gunter Grass or  Stefan Zweig?<br />This is not a easy read and one needs to have reached a  place in life to be able to appriciate it (which does not necessary have  any thing to do with age). Therefor be patient and let it lay waiting for  you until you are ready for it. I pity for those of you who have to read it  to take some class, but I pity still more for those who give it for someone  to read in class. I presume they feel that their classe is only for those  who are prepared for this kind of books!<br />One of the best and most  complicated books I have read. Enjoy it at some stage of your life.	2000-03-21
US	49898048	R1XTRSFSF7JV47	0684802961	514615417	The Riders	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Thank g.. I am not Scully	Tim Winton really takes you for a ride in this book, and it was almost impossible to put the book down. It felt often like one of those movies where the hero does silly things and the whole time you think-don't do it!. Except here I was thinking-I understand him and I would probably have done  the same stupid thing. The reason is of course that Tim Winton really gets  you to believe in the story. He is a very good storyteller.<br />It is not  like you feel you have all the information, it is not as if you really  understand Scully, but it is as if you understand as much of Scully as he  understands of his wife. As much as we maybe can understand a complicated  human being, even after sharing a life for many years.<br />This book has some  of the same intensity as John Fowles: The Magus, another very good book for  those who like this one. They are both good at explaining parts of how it  is to be a man. Though maybe only some important parts of it. (I hope there  is more to us). Another good one is a book by a dutch writer (Harry  Mulisch?): Turkish delight, which is also strong in describing this part of  being men. Good advice for women who wants to undertand men better, test  out these books, and you might understand a bit more about (at least) some  sides of us. This is a good description of a maybe darker and mystical side  of men, but it is still a part of who we are-for some maybe this side is  not even visible.<br />A friend of mine got so confused after reading this  book that she just started reading it at once. If you like books to be  clearcut and everything to be explained, avoid this book.<br />I could not put  this book out of my head and it is still riding around there and I have to  read it as least one more time to see if I understand a bit more. All in  all it's more a 4 1/2 than a 5.	2000-03-19
US	49898048	RKYHMV3WS83OK	0553299611	138629087	Lila: An Inquiry Into Morals	Books	3	16	21	N	N	Read Zen and the art... instead!	Once in the outskirts of Gothenburg, Sweden, an american journlist stumbled over the secret hideout of Robert M. Pirsig and knocked on his door and asked for a interview. Pirsig declined, but the journalist  suposedly put a lot of pressure on him to get it. And it ended with Pirsig  telling him to come back the following morning. Next morning the apartment  was empty and Pirsig gone. Where to? <br />I almost discovered it myself one  day in 1986 (87?). A farmer I was visiting for my work told me about this  american with a big motorcycle, who just like me loved books  and who was  renting his little house just up the road; Why dont you go and visit him,  he knows nobody here, he said. And I almost did, I almost knocked on that  door and I almost got to say hello to Pirsig. In my pocket that day I was  carrying Zen and the art of motorcycle maintainance, reareading it for the  xth time on the long ferry runs I did every day. This was in inner Rogaland  which is in southwestern Norway on the inside of the Finnøy Islands. I  later found out who the mysterious man  was when Pirsig gave an interview  (many years later) with the newspaper Dagbladet.<br />I am not to fond of  Lila, maybe because I didn´t understand it (?), maybe because I liked Zen  so much, so I had to big expectations. But mostly I do not like it because  I feel this is Pirsig´s way of running away from what he did and said in  Zen, his way out from all the attacks (perceived or real, only Pirsig  knows) on the essence of Zen. Because he really kills the whole idae of  quality in the end, saying it is just another idea.<br />As the creator of  Zen, that is his right. But as a reader I am still disapointed. Maybe I  should reared Lila sometimes, but no,  I also found the story itself  inferiour to Zen (a bit to much down the river and the drain). I don´t  doubt the story about Redford, and I finished the book, to the bitter end.  But the whole book reminds me to  much of Jostein Gaarders; Sophies world.  Interesting philosophy but uninteresting story (he wrote for children and  not grownups, so that may explain why Gaarders book was so bland, even if  the philosophy bit is brilliant).<br />If you have not read Zen...., do not do  the mistake of reading Lila first. Thats my advice.	2000-03-17
US	49898048	R6ZRGXTNRL3UU	0679410465	778351106	The Master and Margarita (Everyman's Library Contemporary Classics Series)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Acesable for anyone with a hearth and a brain	There seems to be some trashy translations of the Master and Margarita. We just got a new brilliant Norwegian version who got rave reviews in all our major newpapers.<br />Back in 1976 I was reading the Master and Margarita for  the 2 time I had the radio on and the Norwegian corenspondent of Moscow was  on the news with his review from the opening nights of the Master&amp;  Margarita in Moscow. It was the first time it was aloud in a theater. He  was suprised because the audience were so negative, until he discovered  they were all KGB/military/Politnicks from the party. Bulgakov detested  these people and ridicules them the whole book trough. Good ridance.<br />He  creates some of the funniest scenes in any books, some of the most  inventive dialogues, one of the most lovely romances, a most belivable  meeting with the most famous son on earth and his tormentor (or vice  versa?), and the most catty cat there ever walked on four and two!<br />Read  Bulgakov with your heart and its more than enough. Read him with your brain  and thats great to! Combine the two and you got everything. You do not have  to know russian or russian politics to understand the book. I don´t and I  love it. You only need a open mind and a heart.<br />I have gone on to see it  on the ecene in Edinburgh (ok, but to few actors) Copenhagen (brilliant; I  still have the $ bills) and in Stockholm (Lena Ohlin was not at her best  unfortunately and the same russian director was minimalistic).<br />If you  have a open mind and love good literature then this is the book for you. If  the first pages dont grab you, wait to you are ready for them. It´s worth  waiting for.	2000-03-13
