US	49894334	R9RGW1D3PMGVU	0871137356	396854460	Victim: The Other Side of Murder	Books	5	3	5	N	N	GRABS YOU BY THE THROAT AND DOES NOT LET GO	Gary Kinder is definitely a practitioner of the old saying &quot;don't tell them, show them.&quot;  A former prosecutor, Kinder tries his hand at writing a true crime book about a boy with his whole life ahead of him who blunders into a horrific store heist, is seriously disfigured and left for dead by the robbers.  His mother comes looking for him and is similarly tortured (in her case, fatally). Kinder reconstructs the ordeal of the victim (hence the title) almost minute by minute.  He then takes you through the police investigation and trial of the criminals.  But all the while, he keeps the spotlight on the victim, which sets this apart from most true crime books. He never editorializes or preaches. He lays out the facts in a clear yet compelling prose style and he lets them speak for themselves.  Kinder teaches a Continuing Legal Education course on legal brief writing (I'd love to be a fly on that wall).  And if you think this is a good book, you will also want to read his &quot;Ship of Gold in the Deep Blue Sea.&quot;	2002-10-13
US	49894334	RPLTAXZGK5X4H	0815752652	176185811	The True Size of Government	Books	5	5	5	N	N	GREAT LITTLE BOOK ON A HUGE SUBJECT	The aptly named Paul Light sheds a great deal of it on an obscure but vitally important subject: the shape, size, influence, and accountability of the federal government.  Light, a scholar with the Brookings Institute, argues (backed by a formidable array of statistics) that politicians in both major parties have said one thing and done another:  they have kept the ostensible size of the government &quot;small&quot; by slapping a headcount limit on how many civil servants there are, while increasing the &quot;shadow&quot; that government casts by outsourcing government functions to private companies, temporary staffers, nonprofits, and by imposing unfunded mandates on states and localities.  By doing this, elected officials could claim that they reduced the size of government and yet delivered the many government services that citizens clamor for (all the while complaining about the government itself).  The book actually can be divided into three parts: first, Light talks about how the decrease in the &quot;headcount&quot; and the increase in the &quot;shadow&quot; took place.  Second, Light talks about the accountability implications of the &quot;shadow&quot; (private contractors are not as readily accountable to policymakers as civil servants).  Third, Light expounds on the need to distinguish governmental from nongovernmental competencies (i.e. what should be privatized and what should be kept in the civil service?)    Along the way, Light gives a great tour of federal personnel management issues such as how buyouts work as opposed to Reductions In Force, and how privatization actually has a long history in this country.  If you read this book, you will appreciate how Circular A-76 (an Eisenhower administrative regulation that prohibited executive branch agencies from competing with private business) should probably have a place in high school history books.  Books on the structure of government typically induce MEGO (My Eyes Glaze Over) reactions from people.  They should not.  This book deserves a wider readership than it probably gets.  Also good from this author: &quot;the New Public Service&quot; and &quot;Tides of Reform.&quot;	2002-08-19
US	49894334	RU7MAHUKZQ6K0	0700603018	5043533	To Run a Constitution:  The Legitimacy of the Administrative State	Books	4	6	6	N	N	A CONSTITUTIONAL BIRTH CERTIFICATE FOR BUREAUCRACY	John Rohr has put together a short yet insightful book about the origins and evolution of the administrative regulatory state in the United States.  Beginning with the Federalist Papers and other writings of the Framers, working his way through the writings of Woodrow Wilson, Frank Goodnow, and Judge Cooley, and finally looking at works of New Dealers such as Kenneth Culp Davis, Rohr superbly traces the intellectual history of administration.  Every senior and mid-level government employee ought to read it.<br />The key theme of this book is legitimacy.  Rohr believes (with reason) that while administrative agencies have been found &quot;lega1&quot; by the courts, they are not in fact &quot;legitimate&quot; parts of the American constitutional tradition in the eyes of many citizens.  This he blames for the most part on Wilson, Goodnow and other Progressive-Era founders of public administration as an academic discipline because of their preference for British Parliamentary rule over the Constitution.  Rohr tries to come up with an alternative history of public administration, one that derives from the Framers themselves.  <br />I subtract 1 star because of an analytical flaw in the argument.  In warming to his argument, Rohr characterizes Federal bureaucracy as fulfilling the promise of the Constitution because (1) it acts like the Senate in that it deliberates and develops expertise and (2) it acts like the House of Representatives in that, through its sheer size it is more broadly representative of the people than the House could ever be.  I have been a federal employee for seven-odd years and I can tell you that the civil service is not a knightly caste or a senatorial order or a broadly representative swathe of &quot;the People.&quot;  Rohr does not take into account the possibility that federal employees, however benevolent, can become a self-aware interest group that tries to attain advantages for itself, or that federal employees really do move within a relatively circumscribed sphere of action relative to their political and judicial masters.    <br />All the same, it is a very useful and well-done book concluded by a timely plea for a greater sense of the constitution as a well-spring for action by civil servants in their every day work.  I recommend it highly.	2002-08-11
US	49894334	R2CBPWSGSK2HXI	0807009571	689428484	Jefferson's Pillow: The Founding Fathers and the Dilemma of Black Patriotism	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A MEDITATION ON BLACK PATRIOTISM AND FLAWED FOUNDERS	Roger Wilkins attempts to do two things in this book and both within a short, confined space.  First, he meditates on the nature of black patriotism.  Can a black man truly call himself an American and feel comfortable laying claim to the full American heritage even though the very founding of this country is so inextricably intertwined with the enslavement and commodification of his ancestors?  To this question, Wilkins answers a textured and nuanced (but a very definite \\"yes\\").  Through the prism of family history and a recounting of blacks (some well-known some not) who even in slavery acted like free men, he shows that the black contribution was integral to the foundation of this country and that without that contribution, America would have been far weaker and poorer in every way.<BR>Second, Wilkins talks about the moral ambiguity of founders like George Washington, who personified freedom and yet owned slaves right through his presidency, Thomas Jefferson, who invented a new language of liberty and yet lived a life of self-indulgent dissipation on slave labor, and George Mason, doughty champion of the Bill of Rights, who also lived off his slaves.  And yet Wilkins writes no mere screed.  He can appreciate the founders' greatness even as he deplores their base imperfections and corruptions.   The prose is measured, crisp, and heartfelt all at once.  I subtract 1 star because I think he could have expounded some of these subjects even further in a more developed book.  I recommend it.	2002-08-04
US	49894334	RNPQX1LG0ASOI	0618134298	207960543	Why I Am a Catholic	Books	3	116	133	N	N	WHY I AM A (LONG-WINDED) CATHOLIC....	Garry Wills, prolific commentator on things political, cultural, and religious, writes again.  The only problem is, it takes about 250 pages for the reader to get to Mr. Wills' answer to the question why he remains in the Catholic Church if he has so many quarrels with the hierarchy, the papacy, and their pronouncements on various points of doctrine.<br />The book is divided into three parts.  In the first part, Wills talks about growing up Catholic, his days in the seminary and the Jesuit order, how and why he left the Jesuit order, his work for the National Review and his lifelong infatuation with the 19th-20th century religious writer and journalist, G.K. Chesterton.<br />The second part is a dreary catalogue of depredations, deceits, abuses of power, and miscues by various popes through the millenia.  Wills argues that the papacy in its modern form is a recent invention and that it has evolved several times through different forms.  It goes without saying that he thinks papal infallibility has got to go.  The second part seems to be a reprise of his earlier book, \\"Papal Sin.\\"<br />The third part of the book actually gets around to Wills finally, at long last, answering the question why he remains a Catholic.  This fifty page portion of the book is actually quite eloquent and thoughtful and could stand on its own as a book or as a magazine article.  Wills's meditation on why he remains in the Church is organized around the clauses of the Apostle's Creed, which he treats with great insight.<br />I subtract 2 stars because of the redundant material and the interminable delay in getting to the answer to the question.  I give 3 stars because the last section is quite good.	2002-07-14
US	49894334	R3AM68TXHP7OGI	0691007438	747267103	Modern Manors	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A "WELL-MANORED" LOOK AT LABOR RELATIONS	It is not a very long book, but it contains a lot of information and insight.  I guess that is why an academic jury awarded it the Taft Prize for Labor History.  The book is all about how american businesses--three in particular: Sears, Thompson, and Kodak--used sophisticated welfare capitalist techniques (and the occasional resort to brass-knuckle tactics) to defeat union organizing drives.  There are fascinating glimpses at business history, collective bargaining, the evolution of employee benefits, and a dollop of labor economics thrown in for good measure in this work.  The writing is accessible, well-documented, and brimful of well-chosen anecdotes without being unduly folksy or slangy.  The depictions of how Sears company officials and staff labor relations professionals worked hand-in-glove with fake company unions and the Teamsters (!?) to blunt the CIO's organizing efforts during and after World War II are particularly good.  I have rated this at 5 stars because it was a rewarding read and I thought the (somewhat inadequate) 1 star review ought to be offset.	2002-06-01
US	49894334	R1JQPDCIMCR31F	0394528360	741344123	Master of the Senate: The Years of Lyndon Johnson III	Books	5	6	6	N	N	A GIANT TEXAS BARBECUE OF A BIOGRAPHY....	This book was well worth the wait.  Those who read \\"Path to Power\\" and \\"Means of Ascent\\", the first two books in the series, will not be disappointed.  It's all here.  The chicanery, the manipulation, the ruthless and low cunning mixed up with the soaring idealism, the deep compassion, the empathy for the poor and oppressed that together made up the contradictory character of LBJ.  This book does not simply capture LBJ, it also captures the Senate and its other powerful men--Russell, Humphrey, Douglas, Hayden, and so on.  The book brings to life the arcane political maneuverings surrounding events--some long forgotten like the Leland Olds confirmation battle where LBJ ruthlessly destroyed a liberal government regulator to keep Texas oil campaign contributions coming, others of great import like the great parliamentary battles that paved the way for civil rights legislation.   Master of the Senate has all the marks we come to associate with a Caro biography--the lavish James Mitchneresque descriptions, the Edward Gibbon literary prose, the painstaking documentation and in-depth interviews of people who knew LBJ.  This book is biography as we have not seen in a long time in the grand, multi-volume Victorian style.  Long life, good health, and prosperity to Robert Caro so he can write Volume IV!!!!	2002-05-07
US	49894334	R1TSEN76UIEXN2	0099862301	434069434	A Very British Coup	Books	2	6	10	N	N	NOT NEARLY AS GOOD AS THE MOVIE	Having seen the superb 1988 movie, I was expecting a book that was even better. Well, so much for that.<br />Prime Minister Harry Perkins leads the Labour Party to victory against the hated Tories and proceeds to implement the most loony-left agenda conceivable.  The entire British establishment--the military, the civil service, the BBC, the Church, the finance people in the City of London and so on--band together with the Americans to destroy his government through a conspiracy of character assassination and blackmail--and succeed with the help of well-placed traitors in the Labour Party.  Ho hum.<br />The character development is incredibly shallow and heavy-handed.  The Americans in the book are singled out for particularly bare-knuckled treatment.  They are almost invariably overweight, gum-chewing, cigar-smoking, John Birch-coddling, money mad imbeciles.  In fact, I don't think I can recall a single sentence involving an American character that did not have the word \\"fat\\" in it.<br />Some of the plot twists are also implausible. That a Labour Government, however leftish in its views, would leave NATO or sell out Israel totally to get financing from the Arabs or give up its nuclear forces was never in the cards and especially now after 9/11.<br />The central story premise, that conservative elements join forces to destroy a political figure, actually seems so quaint after our interminable obsession with scandals from Whitewater to the Inauguration Day Pardons.<br />Find the movie if you can.  It's so much better.	2002-03-12
US	49894334	R6VKUAOZM0JXM	0684863022	447276667	Empire Statesman: The Rise and Redemption of Al Smith	Books	5	11	13	N	N	THIS BOOK GETS MY VOTE	This book takes us back to one of the forgotten greats of American politics in the early 20th century--Al Smith, poor boy from Oliver Street, Tammany Hall politician, Governor of New York State, 1928 Democratic candidate for President, the first Catholic candidate nominated for President by a major party, principal organizer of the effort to build the Empire State Building.  Smith rose from obscure, immigrant roots and without the benefit of much formal education to become one of the leading politicians of his day.  Much of his work on improving social and economic conditions for working people paved the way for FDR and the New Deal.   The author, Robert Slayton, has clearly fallen for his subject, but not so far as to sacrifice all objectivity.  The descriptions of life in New York's neighborhoods are hypnotic.  The writing style is clear and forceful (a little too elegiac in places).  Slayton captures the many sides of Smith's character: the idealist who will not leave his immigrant constituents behind, the blinkered New Yorker who believes that people who live in other states are &quot;just kidding&quot;,  the practical politician who can build coalitions even from the ranks of his enemies, the man of principle who will not lie or even remain silent,  the leader of a presidential campaign we now know was doomed to fail on the rocks of fear and prejudice, and most unfortunately, the embittered egomaniac who threw in with the Republicans against FDR in the 30's after the Democrats pass him by.  Slayton does not slight Smith's family life, his friendships, and his rather odd wardrobe choices (brown derby, maroon shirts, etc.)   The reader will learn a lot he did not know before (like, for example, that Smith not all Irish butwas really part Italian on his father's side). The author also does a decent job of placing Smith in the context of his times (prohibition, female suffrage, machine politics, world war, the red scares). This is a great book about an undeservedlyforgotten man who played a large role in the making of modern America.  If you like this book, you'll also like the new book by James Farrell on Tip O'Neill.	2001-04-15
US	49894334	R145Q3MTK59WKD	0316260495	850544919	Tip O' Neill and the Democratic Century: A Biography	Books	5	13	14	N	N	HERE'S A TIP:  READ &quot;TIP&quot;!	Much like its subject, this book is large, heavy, and packed with Irish blarney and great stories.  The career of Speaker O'Neill spanned the New Deal, World War II, the Vietnam War, the great movements of the 60's, the crises of the 70's, and the Reagan Revolution of the 80's.  Farrell covers it all in just under 700 pages, but you won't mind or notice because the prose flows effortlessly.  It's all here: the personalities, the egos, the sleight of hand, the clashes, the politics of O'Neill and the other colorful, larger than life, forceful, and flawed people who made up Congress in the tumultuous years of the 20th century.  The chapters on how O'Neill came to oppose the Vietnam War and favor Nixon's impeachment are especially good.  The final chapters on how he put off retirement to be the Democratic Party's national voice against the Reagan Administration after the disastrous 1980 election are poignant without being mawkish. But even though Farrell clearly likes his subject (what's not to like?) this is not simply a political book or Democratic party propoganda.  When O'Neill behaves ruthlessly, opportunistically, trims on principle (not very frequently), or takes a casual view of campaign finance ethics (very frequently), Farrell takes it all down faithfully.  What emerges is a full portrait of a very human politician--his family, his friends and enemies, his finances, his values, and even his diets! Unlike most political books, this one is worth getting, even in hardcover.	2001-04-02
US	49894334	R2U78M4HV9OAHT	1580510817	483389127	In Good Company: The Fast Track from the Corporate World to Poverty, Chastity, and Obedience	Books	5	15	15	N	N	BEFORE HR MANAGEMENT, THERE WAS IGNATIUS OF LOYOLA	This is one great book.  Who would believe that a charter member of America's corporate culture with the gold rolex, the rep tie and the ray bans to prove it could do such a total about face and accept the calling to become a Jesuit priest bound by iron vows of poverty, chastity, and obedience?  And yet, no lie, this is what this book is all about.  Martin is simply magnificent in he way he draws the contrast between his old corporate life as a human resources executive with General Electric and his new life as a Jesuit novice.  The descriptions of GE in the merger mania, downsizing, and frenzy of the 1980's are vivid and by turns frightening and amusing to say the least.  His descriptions of his spiritual journey are candid and self-deprecating.  However, the old habits die hard.  Martin's writing is brisk and spare like the memos in the business world he left behind.  The meandering intellectualization and name-dropping of somebody like Thomas Merton is clearly absent here.  I intend to read any other books by Martin I can find.	2001-03-19
US	49894334	RK9RRYB7OCQBZ	0609805630	649626943	Deliberate Intent: A Lawyer Tells the True Story of Murder by the Book	Books	5	2	2	N	N	EXERCISE YOUR FREE-SPEECH RIGHTS...AND ORDER THIS BOOK	A publishing house turns a tidy profit on a &quot;how to&quot; book--about how to be a contract killer, that is.  A man hires somebody to kill his wife and handicapped son for insurance.  The murder is committed using the &quot;how to&quot; book as a blueprint.  What is a First Amendment free speech absolutist to do?<br />That is the burden of this book and its author, Rod Smolla, a professor of law at William and Mary's law school.  With every fiber of his being, Smolla believes in the First Amendment and unfettered free expression.  Then, he takes on the case of the victims' next of kin against the publisher...and winds up doing battle against the assembled might of the First Amendment bar in federal court.<br />It's all here.  Smolla is a good story teller and he has put together a good narrative of the thrust and parry, point and edge of the case.  His character sketches of the lawyers involved and the defendant publisher are wickedly funny.  He spares no one, friend or foe (at one point, he says that his co-counsel on the case suffers from &quot;narcistic fibrosis.&quot;) The writing style is crisp and fluid.  Smolla weaves into the book meditations on the clash of rights with obligations, the different schools of jurisprudential thought from the Natural Law to Legal Realism, the vicissitudes of judges and judging, and the tension-filled process of creating a legal theory and the record to back it up.  I was so engrossed in the story I had no idea I was actually learning something! <br />As an aside to lawyers and law students, this could be the best basic book on legal process and legal practice since the &quot;Buffalo Creek Disaster.&quot;  If you like this book, check out Patrick Cleary's book on the R.A.V. cross-burning case before the Supreme Court.	2001-02-22
US	49894334	RB4W5CXX3VPZL	0465009719	797461665	The Next Deal: The Future Of Public Life In The Information Age	Books	5	4	5	N	N	A most X-cellent read	This book is a refreshing departure from the typical &quot;generation X&quot; fare of whimpering and simpering about the spiralling national dabt and budget deficits and those damned boomers.  The author is a former aide in the Clinton Administration, but his past political engagements do not interfere with his clear-sightedness in viewing the current political scene.<br />Cherny believes that the U.S. is on the cusp of a political and economic realignment on the order of what happened in the late 19th and early 20th centuries.  Back then, the nation went from being an agrarian society of farmers and small businessmen to an industrial society of wage earners and assembly line workers.  In political terms, Cherny says, this came to be reflected in the New Deal government of large bureaucratic agencies.  Today, the trend towards bureacracy is being reversed by what Cherny calls &quot;the Choice Generation&quot; that will demand greater accountability, variety, responsiveness, and flexibility in public institutions.  He believes that government needs to update itself to reflect changes going on in the e-conomy so that it can effectively protect the interests of the people.  He excoriates &quot;Treadmill Liberals&quot; and &quot;Blockhead Conservatives&quot; who do not appreciate this.<br />Unlike many younger writers, Cherny has a light touch and wears his erudition gracefully.  He glides effortlessly over the panorama of U.S. history and economic issues and weaves his thesis out of many disparate sources from Adam Smith to Frederick Winslow Taylor to Herbert Croly to modern political scientists.  His balance and objectivity are also very good.  His prose is crisp and clear.<br />It is too early to say that Cherny is the next Walter Lippmann or Herbert Croly, but this is an important contribution to the dialogue on the proper role of government in America.	2001-02-19
US	49894334	RFYLRX2E7Y03	0385313489	140919625	The Last Lion: Winston Spencer Churchill: Visions of Glory, 1874-1932	Books	5	3	3	N	N	MANCHESTER'S FINEST HOUR	Manchester has the ability that few other writers can match of going on for pages and pages and not boring the reader to death.  He takes Churchill and makes him and his world live again in the pages of this book.  In terms of mastery of the English language and an eye for detail, Manchester has left a worthy memorial to its subject.  The second volume is really outstanding as well.  The other reviewers who rated this book favorably have said it all.  I just want to say Mr. Manchester, wherever you are, please come out with the next volume soon.  Also look for American Caesar (about Douglas MacArthur), the Glory and the Dream (about U.S. History, 1932-1972), Goodbye Darkness (about Manchester's Marine Corps service), Death of a President (the JFK assassination) by this author.  He never disappoints.	2001-02-03
US	49894334	R25FWP235NXE89	0767900316	843086515	The Corner: A Year in the Life of an Inner-City Neighborhood	Books	5	3	3	N	N	CORNERS THE MARKET ON THE TRUTH....	...and that truth is that the war on drugs is going very badly--the drugs are winning.  Mr. Simon follows around the denizens of a coke and heroin infested neighborhood in Baltimore, MD for a whole year as they deal with deindustrialization, crime, drugs, unemployment, an uncaring and unresponsive welfare system, a clueless criminal justice system, and urban blight.  The withdrawal of government, industry and community from the neighborhood leaves a vacuum which is filled by what Mr. Simon calls &quot;the Corner&quot;--the open-air drug bazaar common to most American cities.  People steal, strip cars and houses, and dissipate their welfare checks to feed their habit.  Stepped up police and tougher laws make no dent in the problem. As the author says, if people are to say no to drugs, what is there to say yes to?<br />The character portraits of this book are very telling and finely drawn.  Especially poignant was the story of Gary, a man with a plan to leave the Corner by starting his own (legitimate) businesses and investing in stock funds.  But the Corner brings him down too in the end as he succumbs to addiction, his brick home becomes a shooting gallery and his wife and children become caught up in the drug culture.  Also well done was the portrait of Ella, the community activist without a community, a woman who vainly strives to instill a sense of neighborliness where none exists, where none can exist under the rules of the Corner.<br />Mr. Simon has no words of comfort and much scorn for both liberals and conservatives.  Liberals will find no solace in Simon's disdainful treatment of the educational system as largely irrelevant (as he says &quot;the students pretend to learn and the teachers learn to pretend to teach&quot;).  Conservatives will reel from his repeated hectoring that the drug problem is one that will not go away after more arrests or more prisons.<br />Mr. Simon is a master of nonfiction writing.  If you like this book, check out &quot;Homicide:A Year on the Killing Streets.&quot;	2001-01-29
US	49894334	RVDPLGLD23F31	0802713300	302173523	Monitor: The Story of the Legendary Civil War Ironclad and the Man Whose Invention Changed the Course of History	Books	5	9	9	N	N	JUST LIKE THE SHIP IT PORTRAYS....	....Like the Monitor itself, this book is short and concise and yet it packs quite a wallop.  In a little more than two hundred well-written pages, Mr. DeKay manages to cram a lot.  The book is all about the first ironclad warship of the U.S. Navy and its duel in Chesapeake Bay with the Confederate vessel Merrimac.  The book starts with a biography of the ship's cantankerous Swedish inventor John Ericsson and his efforts to get the government bureaucracies of two continents to show interest in his his prophetic ideas for naval warfare (propeller engines, armor plating, torpedoes, revolving gun turrets).  The book then talks about the labyrinthine maneuvers of Ericsson and his financial backers through the government contract process to get the ship built.  Finally, the author describes in blow-by-blow detail the epic battle between the &quot;cheesebox on a raft&quot; Monitor and the vastly larger and better-armed Merrimac.  Every page crackles with factual gems (e.g. The Civil War really was &quot;brother against brother&quot;.  The Merrimac's commander rammed and sank a Union ship while his brother was on board).  Landlubbers and civilians need not be discouraged from reading this book.  Engineering and naval concepts are presented in jargon-free language.  The book can be finished in two or three days of casual reading.  Great for the bathroom-er, uh, excuse me, head.	2001-01-04
US	49894334	R1EVA78Y24PCRU	0060957867	637630453	Faith of My Fathers: A Family Memoir	Books	5	1	2	N	N	AT LONG LAST, A REAL PERSON	You may not agree with everything John McCain stands for or care for his political party but you will see a real, complete human being leap from the pages of this book.  Books by politicians, especially politicians who have not yet retired, are normally on my top ten list of things to avoid--they oscillate between the tepid thank you note and the gratuitous hatchet job when they don't bludgeon the reader to death with platitudes.  Well forget about those books and read McCain instead, he's real.<br />The book starts with the naval careers of McCain's grandfather and father (both were four-star admirals in the Navy--one in World War II and one during Vietnam).  The author comes from an incredibly martial family--the tree is loaded with Revolutionary and Civil War veterans. McCain then touches on his childhood, his passage through Annapolis Naval Academy, and lastly his career in the Navy as a flyer.  The book culminates in McCain getting shot down over North Vietnam and suffering imprisonment for six years at the hands of sadistic guards and interrogators.<br />The thing that makes the story especially compelling is that McCain COULD HAVE LEFT THE PRISON FOR HOME ANYTIME HE WANTED TO.  The jailers would have released him because his father was an admiral but McCain chose to stay and suffer torture with his fellow prisoners.  Truly, this reads like a biography of one of those ancient Romans or Greeks in Plutarch's Lives, thinking of nothing but duty and sacrifice.<br />Fellow readers, the choice is clear, read the same old oatmeal from the same old gray people in office, or read a real book by a real person.	2001-01-04
US	49894334	R2HTEF8ZSSANFK	1580621120	906766379	The USS Essex: And the Birth of the American Navy	Books	5	4	4	N	N	HORATIO HORNBLOWER, EAT YOUR HEART OUT....	Very often, fiction just can't keep up with real life.  This is the case with USS Essex.  This book is about the exploits of a U.S. Navy frigate in the early years of the American Republic, between the Revolution and the War of 1812.  In those early years, the other nations of the world from Britain, the world's premier naval power, to the tatterdemalion despotisms of Africa's Barbary coast, regarded the United States as a 98-pound weakling.  American ships were routinely boarded, and American sailors routinely kidnapped for ransom.  In spite of the frugality and pacifism of early presidents, it became necessary to build a navy to achieve freedom of the seas.  The authors do a wonderful job of telling the U.S. Navy's early years using the Essex as a vehicle for that story.  The great captains of the Navy's early years are all here, Porter, Preble, Bainbridge, Decatur.  There are even portents of future greatness in these pages as well as we see 11-year old Midshipman David Farragut (who was stationed on the Essex in the War of 1812), who would later lead the Union Navy to victory five decades later in the Civil War.  The descriptions of naval life and tactics are well-done, and the authors handle the morass of nautical jargon deftly, not permitting the technical details to overwhelm landlubberly readers.  The book contains a glossary of naval terms at the end and has maps and illustrations of the key engagements.<br />The history of the ship is thoroughly covered, from its beginnings in volunteerism (the citizens of Salem, Massachussetts used fund-raisers to pay for the ship--just imagine trying to build an aircraft carrier like that!) through its dramatic (and bloody) seafights to its sad and ironic end as a prison hulk used by the British Empire to house Irish prisoners.   A quick and satisfying (but by no means simplistic)read.	2001-01-01
US	49894334	RYPM287H37RTI	068483779X	17843078	Mollie's Job: A Story of Life and Work on the Global Assembly Line	Books	5	11	12	N	N	THE TRUE COSTS OF GLOBALIZATION....	Since about the time NAFTA passed Congress, we have heard endless paeans of praise for free trade, the mobility of capital, and the new competitive global economy.  We have heard less about the costs of globalization.  This book takes the free trade issue and brings it down to earth by showing how jobs that originated in Paterson, New Jersey were sent to Mississippi, and later on Mexico, by corporate conglomerates searching for higher profits and a pliable, docile (and above all cheaper) workforce.  The book focusses in on one firm, Universal, which specializes in making electrical fixtures.  At first, the firm offers good jobs at good wages to all comers in New Jersey.  However, as the founder of the company sells his interest out to a large railroad conglomerate, the firm heads south for cheaper labor....and then south again into Mexico.  The story of how these jobs migrate is also the story of how institutions that are supposed to protect the American worker fail that worker in the end.  Labor unions become complacent and somnolent, spending more resources on jurisdictional disputes and factional feuding than on organizing the workers.  And when they aren't lazy, they are corrupt, doing deals with the Mafia for added perks.  Federal agencies pull back from their duties as the nation drifts to the right.  Read the segment in this book on how the U.S. Commerce Department (funded in great part from employee taxes) cheered on American businesses relocating to Mexico and your blood will boil.  Read the segment on the so-called transitional assistance offered to displaced American workers (pamphlets given to people in their 40s and 50s on how to join the army) and you will get apoplexy.  The book ends on an especially bitter note, as the conglomerate prepares to move to an even more depressed area of Mexico, with a woman worker wailing &quot;must I chase my job all over the world?&quot;  Indeed.<br />In a larger, balance sheet sense, globalization may be beneficial.  But ultimately, as Mr. Adler makes it clear with this well-written, thoroughly documented book, somebody is footing the bill with a lost job, a defaulted mortgage, missing benefits, and dread of the future.	2000-12-30
US	49894334	R3GCDTI095EQZY	0688172229	554803602	Double Billing: A Young Lawyer's Tale Of Greed, Sex, Lies, And The Pursuit Of A Swivel Chair	Books	5	7	7	N	N	STRACHER SAYS IT ALL	I have been an attorney for almost six years and Stracher articulates the frustrations I have been feeling during that time.  It's all in his book: the clueless supervisors with near-zero courtroom experience and the surefire instinct for the capillaries, the exultation of form at the expense of substance, the bravado, the mindless jockeying for position in motion battles, discovery disputes, and the quest for the most billable hours.  This book demonstrates how the court system has been perverted from the search after truth to an arena where more often than we care to admit, victory goes to the law firms with the biggest battalions of lawyers and paralegals, and the clients with the most resources to wear down their adversaries.  Read this book and it will make you realize that when Charles Dickens wrote about practicing law in equity court in &quot;Bleak House&quot;, he was a little light on the realism.  Mr. Stracher has done us a great service in writing this book.  I hope he will continue doing so in the future.	2000-12-27
US	49894334	R32WPKWOUUSE5	0374251428	297585630	Blood of the Liberals	Books	5	18	25	N	N	A liberal dose of liberalism's trials and tribulations....	Let me start by saying this is the kind of book that the reader will just fly through.  The prose flows.  The story is also compelling.  Packer tells the story of his family and the cause of American liberalism in three parts.  The first part is the life of his grandfather, a crusty Alabama congressman with a penchant for unpopular causes, who has the misfortune of seeing his Jeffersonian ideals eclipsed by the New Deal government activism of FDR.  The congressman's daughter marries Packer's father, a Jewish intellectual blooded in naval combat in World War II who goes on to become an administrator and law professor at Stanford University.  The second part details the father's woes as a rational child of Progressivism and the New Deal confronting the irrationality of late 1960's New Left protesters bent on upending society.  Packer himself is the subject of the third part.  It is particularly saddening to read of Packer signing on for the cause of liberalism as it becomes irrelevant at best and disreputable otherwise (he analogizes joining one cause group to converting to Roman Catholicism in the Reformation).  This is a great road map to the 20th century, American liberalism, and the politics of the last 25 years, and it is a great memoir in the bargain.  Must read.	2000-11-20
US	49894334	R33LJZ0X4VZEHX	0807825247	839159000	Rum, Romanism, and Rebellion: The Making of a President, 1884	Books	5	12	12	N	N	LONG OVERDUE DEPICTION OF A FORGOTTEN PERIOD IN U.S. HISTORY	The last half of the 19th century is a period that the historians generally give short shrift to.  They dutifully plow through it in the obligatory chapter in their rush to get from the Civil War to Teddy Roosevelt, Wilson, and the Progressive Era.  The campaign of Grover Cleveland against James Blaine for the presidency in 1884 is just about forgotten.  This is too bad because what with the emphasis on character and values (accompanied by some really gross mudslinging), the extensive changes in technology and business, the factionalism and divided government, it was a period much like ours.  Summers does an excellent job of dispelling the prevailing view of this period as a doldrum bookended by Lincoln and TR.  In a comprehensive yet not overly long book, he shows that substantive issues like the tariff, the relationship of the national government to the states, morality in politics, substance abuse (ie prohibition), and other pressing matters really were at stake, he explores those issues and the men and women who had to face them.  This book is one of the best treatments of the 1884 presidential campaign (or any other campaign for that matter) out there.  Find a copy of this book and read about a time that is so much like ours.	2000-11-02
US	49894334	R3MTHVXPCQG5IO	0679757074	91816190	Echoes of a Native Land: Two Centuries of a Russian Village	Books	5	16	16	N	N	TO RUSSIA WITH LOVE	Amazing.<br />The author comes from a family of Russian emigres who fled to the West as a result of the Russian Revolution.  Before the Revolution, they were part of the minor nobility that supplied the Tsars with military officers in time of war and high- and mid-level government officials in time of peace.  The book is mainly about how this family lived through the tumultuous period before, during and after the Revolution.  The descriptions of Russian life during this period are vivid and engaging.  The family portraits of people struggling to serve and save their country (and ultimately suffering the cruelest repudiation by it) are poignant. And the pages sparkle with objective analysis and insight.  In spite of his family background, he does not grind axes or pine away for what was lost.   And yet, although much was lost, his love for Russia and its people is clear. He sees clearly that the old order that was swept away in 1917 had its shortcomings, shortcomings that he warns may yet undermine contemporary Russia's latest experiments with constitutional democracy.	2000-11-01
US	49894334	R3S3H3PT9I46HH	0395860423	605698458	The Gentleman From New York : Daniel Patrick Moynihan: A Biography	Books	3	7	35	N	N	IT WOULD HAVE BEEN A 4 BUT FOR ITS SUBJECT....	Godfrey Hodgson is a stand-out as a political historian of the second half of the twentieth century.  If you read anything of his, read &quot;World Turned Right Side Up&quot; and &quot;America In Our Time&quot;.  Excellent, crisp writing accompanied by balanced judgment and comprehensive coverage are Hodgson's trademarks.  This book was also well-put together.<br />It is obvious that Hodgson really likes his subject and strives mightily to shore him up, very often without success.  An appropriate title for this book could very well have been &quot;Forrest Gump Goes to the Senate.&quot;  Moynihan turns up at every critical juncture in the history of American social policy....to what purpose, it is never clear.  In fact, his entire career leaves one with the feeling, why was he here?    This book does nothing to lay these questions to rest and does much to raise them over and over again.  Since Jefferson, other men of thought have entered public life to build coalitions and accomplish great things.  In this book, Moynihan's first impulse always seems to be to drape himself in a toga and write a monograph.  Rather than building alliances with others, he builds moats around himself with gratuitously acerbic commentary.  <br />By all means read the book.  However, we can only hope that Hodgson will find a worthier subject for his next book.	2000-10-25
US	49894334	R1HRR51YT6E7OU	0385499345	475272008	The Lexus and the Olive Tree: Understanding Globalization	Books	2	22	28	N	N	SOMEWHAT ANNOYING....	We really need good writers who can get to the bottom of what's happening to us as the world gets unified into a single integrated economy.  Unfortunately, Friedman's book does not answer that need.  His writing  style appears to be one part anecdote, two parts name-dropping and three  parts cheerleading for the new globalism without any regard for the human  costs (at one point, I  think he even calls upon globally competitive  countries to 'shoot their wounded' or words to that effect).  He uses this  over-the-top jargon and sloganeering that is reminiscent of your typical  business management book.  The book is simply drenched with sentences like  &quot;the Electronic Herd loves the Golden Straitjacket.&quot;  Hunh?    What does he mean?  I remembered his earlier book &quot;From Beirut to  Jerusalem&quot;--a really good read by the way--so this book was a big  disappointment.  If you are interested in globalization, try William  Greider's &quot;One World Ready or Not&quot;, James Barber's &quot;Jihad  versus McWorld&quot; or any of the books by Paul Krugman.	2000-07-01
US	49894334	R2XMBDPS7QEU4W	0440235502	750100394	October Sky (The Coalwood Series #1)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	JUST INCREDIBLE!	This book is memoir writing at its best.  The author tells us about his boyhood in a West Virginia coal mining town, his dreams of joining the space program, and what he and his friends went through to make the dreams  real.  Hickam and his friends band together to launch rockets miles into  the air.  All the while, he has to overcome the skepticism of his  conservative father, his rather loutish older brother, and the townspeople  to do it.  We learn later in the book that the author did wind up as an  engineer with NASA, just like his hero Wernher von Braun.     Memoir  writing can be very difficult to pull off, especially with the premise of  &quot;a Boy and his Dream.&quot;  Done poorly, the effect can be very  saccharine or self involved or both.  However, Hickam comes through.  This  book actually tells several different stories simultaneously:  the tensions  in the family household, the progress of the rocket experiments, the  contentious clash of labor and management in the West Virginia mining  country where this is set.  The descriptions of the miners and mining alone  make this book worthwhile.      I won't say this is the best book I ever  read.  But it certainly was next to impossible to put down.	2000-06-09
US	49894334	R1TSZG3PZY5X0C	088730687X	493813209	Reengineering the Corporation	Books	1	14	19	N	N	ZEN SPEAK AND CANT PHRASES	I think people should read this book because for better or for worse, it has defined the way big business acted in the mid and late 90's.  However, it suffers from the same vices that a lot of business books do:  over-the-top, breathless panting writing style, exaggerated claims (like  this book transcends Adam Smith), too much jargon and neologism, and  covering the very real downsides of reengineering with euphemism or  omission.    The authors argue that American business is lagging because  its processes are too bureaucratic and mired in the past.  They believe  that businesses must junk old processes completely by taking advantage of  new information technology.  This is alright as far as it goes: why employ  elevator operators in automated cars and firemen on diesel locomotives if  they are no longer useful there?     However, the authors do not concede  until almost the very end that reengineering can cost jobs (many, many  jobs) and increase the stress of those still working.  They are also not  particularly helpful to managers who have just had to lay off legions of  workers and now face a wopping morale and credibility problem.  Instead,  they offer much zen-speak about &quot;vision&quot; and &quot;cases for  action.&quot;       The case studies selected for reengineering were  particularly depressing examples of pod people speak.  Organizations don't  change, they undergo a &quot;paradigm shift.&quot;  People don't have  thoughts or ideas, they have &quot;visions.&quot;  And they never agree,  they always &quot;sign on&quot;, &quot;get on board&quot; or achieve  &quot;alignment.&quot;  What big business really needs to reengineer is its  writing and speaking styles.     Like the weather, women's fashions, and  other management fads (remember Total Quality Management?), reengineering  will have its day in the sun and then fade away.  Nonetheless, read the  book for its influence rather than its educational or entertainment value.	2000-06-08
US	49894334	R3RQYUAL9MAPON	0393046702	126451278	The Cost of Rights: Why Liberty Depends on Taxes	Books	4	16	22	N	N	A sorely needed corrective to bad thinking	It is the fashion to disparage government and all its works these days.  Sunstein and Holmes have given this timely reminder that Constitutional and property rights only have meaning if they can be enforced BY the government  (that is, by courts, executive agencies, police departments, disaster  relief, and the like).  The book is flawed to the extent that seems to call  for affirmative rights to public services (social workers, police) to be  enforced by judges.  Such a state of affairs would totally undercut the  majority-rule principle of democratic society.    However, the book is a  welcome antidote to the trendy, bumper-sticker diatribes against the evils  of government.  We need a serious dialogue on the proper (and limited)  functions of government in the new global economy, not more slogans.  If  you like this book, also look at Garry Wills's &quot;Necessary Evil&quot;  (which does a better job with historical background) and Brinkley's  &quot;New Federalist Papers.&quot;	2000-05-21
US	49894334	R2R671KL9L8P85	0553277472	340684550	Zen and the Art of Motorcycle Maintenance: An Inquiry into Values	Books	1	85	128	N	N	REALLY, REALLY BAD....	It is with much trepidation that I disagree with the clear majority of readers and at the risk of being considered &quot;a cynical drapchode&quot; (expression in previous review), I think this was one bad book.  The book  has two three subplots: (1) the author and his son take a motorcycle trip  across America (2) the author inquires into the philosophical underpinnings  of Western civilization (3) the author goes totally insane his career as a  college professor goes into freefall and he must have his personality  expunged by court-ordered electroshock treatment. The book is chocked full  of whining narcissism and self-involvement.  We, the readers, have to be  subjected to the author's vendettas against faculty committees, rhapsodies  about screws and washers and how they relate to philosophy, and his cutting  remarks to and about his son whenever the poor child interrupts (as  children often do)his book-length loveletter to himself.    This book has  been published and republished to continual oohing and ahhing and acclaim  and it probably is the duty of every sentient human being to get a copy and  read it with an open mind.  That being said, I plowed through the second  half more from a sense of duty than from any enjoyment, and I really  couldn't care less whether the author lived or died.	2000-05-21
US	49894334	R3GCR2G810M73Q	0465041957	357546778	How We Got Here: The 1970s: The Decade That Brought You Modern Life (for Better Or Worse)	Books	4	2	4	N	N	Guide to All Those Years Ago	Once again, David Frum has come up with some very nuanced, textured social commentary.  The book is about how the country we have today came to be as a result of trends and events and ideas of the 1970's.  He organizes the  book around chapters with different themes (distrust of government,  inflation, materialism, individualism and so on).  Frum manages to combine  comprensiveness with a concise writing style.  He is a conservative  Republican but that's okay; he has some balance and objectivity in his  writing.  Also good by Frum is &quot;Dead Right.&quot;	2000-05-21
US	49894334	R2QYNK906H1KHB	0804107602	358275865	What I Saw at the Revolution: A Political Life in the Reagan Era	Books	5	16	19	N	N	YOU DON'T HAVE TO BE A REPUBLICAN TO LIKE IT....	...and indeed I am certainly NOT one by any stretch of the imagination.  Noonan has written one great book about the presidency, life in the White House, speech writing, and the political process and how it interacts with  the media.  The portions of the book on how she wrote speeches for Reagan  and Bush and how they got edited in the staffing process are particularly  well-written, insightful, and at times downright funny. Noonan remains  loyal to Reagan but she is not so blindered that she fails to note some of  the short comings of his hands-off style.  Her policy views are sometimes  simplistic (you're left wondering if she thinks the world can be governed  from what you learn in a Capra movie) but this is after all a memoir and  she does a very good job of taking you on her trip.  Well worth reading.	2000-05-17
US	49894334	R31TKMKX9ZE8AY	0679777601	110957403	Confucius Lives Next Door: What Living in the East Teaches Us About Living in the West	Books	2	8	12	N	N	Questionable in its conclusion....	As long as the author sticks to the business of describing his experiences as a reporter stationed in Asia, he is on very solid ground.  Moreover, his point that Asia will be an economic powerhouse that we should study more than we do is well taken.  However, I question his implied premise that the  United States should try to remodel its society along Eastern lines.  It  may be true that many Asian societies do place a greater premium on  extended family, etiquette, tradition, and the claims of the community  against those of the individual.  It may even be true that these values  give Asian societies lower crime rates and an edge in economic affairs.   However, these societies often have the defects of their virtues: reduced  social mobility, smothering political corruption and old boy networks,  repression, and intrusive regulation of the individual.  Should we study  and learn from Asian countries?  Only the foolish would say no.  However,  we should not, as this author does, wistfully say think that the grass is  greener on the other side of the fence.  In America, we choose to exalt the  claims of the individual over those of the collective, for better or for  worse--mostly for better.	2000-04-24
US	49894334	R3PEPPQ5MQ7HD9	0312119038	999720718	Through the Narrow Gate: A Memoir of Spiritual Discovery	Books	5	33	36	N	N	A very good memoir...	Karen Armstrong writes of the tribulations she encountered while a nun in England in the 1960's.  This book is not a hatchet-job or a racy &quot;true confessions&quot; kind of screed.  It is instead a frank, informative, and  searing narrative of how the author felt she could no longer continue her  vocation in the regimented atmosphere of the convent.  I almost felt as if  I was reading Thomas Merton's &quot;Seven Storey Mountain&quot; with a  &quot;Rewind&quot; button pushed.  I highly recommend it.	2000-04-02
