US	49899711	R3GV1OW89BQ6OT	0679777431	999153365	The Game of Kings (Lymond Chronicles, 1)	Books	5	19	21	N	N	Beyond compare.	<br /> It is difficult to write about Dorothy Dunnett without surrendering to hyperbole, but I will try. This series has everything: intricate plots, character development that cuts wide and deep, and enfolding it all a dazzling panorama of 16th century Europe and Asia, from the highlands of Scotland to the sewers and palaces of the Ottoman Empire, and beyond. Every detail of the historical setting is handled with such thoroughness and confidence that it is difficult to believe that Dunnett did not actually live in that time period herself. At the risk of sounding hyperbolic--might as well give in--Dunnett's ability to convey the details of her historical settings and to weave plots that confound with their intricacy, scenes that are rich with nuance and enigma, render her almost superhuman as far as I am concerned. She simply does not seem to possess human limitations. Most authors who are coolly capable of weaving complex plots stumble with the emotional content of their books, but Dunnett's intellectual brilliance is equalled by her psychological adeptness in scenes that are as beautifully written as they are moving. <br /> <br /> Of course there are flaws in this series, but it is difficult to care when so much has been accomplished. While the hero is perhaps a bit too capable, too flawless in his responses, Dunnett undermines this at times with flashes of insight into his vulnerabilities. The only time I would argue that Dunnett  falters in her brilliance is in the last book, \\"Checkmate,\\" in which she lapses somewhat into the conventions of romance novels (and romance lovers will of course feel that this is a positive development rather than a failing). <br /> <br /> This is a tiny complaint for a vast series, and should not deter anyone from picking up what I feel is the best of the series, this first installment. \\"A Game of Kings\\" introduces the reader to Francis Lymond and explores his identity--among friends, family, and within himself. It is a virtuoso performance in every respect, from the intrigues to the naked revelations that leave one breathless. And Dunnett is at the top of her game here--literally, her game, as it becomes clear that the chess-related titles are no coincidence: every book plays out with technique similar to a chess game, with feints, gambits and misdirections so subtle that there is bound to be at least one surprise for even the most experienced reader. <br />  <br /> A word of warning: the book is VERY slow to start, and may strike some readers as too dense. Stick with it, and you'll find that the last 300 pages will speed by in no time at all. Dorothy Dunnett's work is among the most complex and difficult out there, but the rewards exceed the required effort. For anyone who loves historicals, mysteries, complex plots, or simply a deeply satisfying story--this book is for you.	2005-07-03
US	49899711	R3AB6FT73ICI9W	0316011770	454028739	The Historian	Books	2	89	145	N	N	I bought the hype.	I had every reason to think I would enjoy this book. For one thing, the hype that has been lavished on it is tremendous, and from sources as respectable as \\"Publisher's Weekly\\" (a *starred* review) and \\"Newsweek,\\" whose glossy full-page review left no term of hyperbole to the imagination. \\"The Historian\\" was also described, amid the extensive praise, as exactly the sort of thing I enjoy: a tale of epic scope, intricately plotted, that blends history and the supernatural with a literate sensibility. The massive proportions of the book, together with its cover design, packaging, and description, all promise a luscious and consuming epic thriller.     I also had a compelling reason to *want* to like this book: prodded by the hype, I shelled out the hefty cover price (plus tax!), and I'd like to take this opportunity to congratulate the publishing industry for inducing someone as little inclined (or equipped) to splurge such as myself to buy a book whose price approaches the $30 mark, without having previously read any works by the author and without troubling to try out the first few pages for size. If that would have made a difference.     Now for the full disclosure: I got about as far as 300 pages, though I was tempted to stop much earlier and if it had been a library book, I would have. That's as far as I'm going, so this review will pertain only to that portion of the book. While it's possible that the story becomes mind-blowing in the latter half, my argument would be that it should not take more than 300 pages to make me care. I would also argue that the problems I have had thus far with the book are relevant regardless of whether or not it improves later on.       In a way \\"The Historian\\" *is* what it has been hyped up to be: a vast plotline set in various exotic locales that draws on history (ostensibly) as its source material to deliver a new take on the \\"Dracula\\" mythology, a mythology that has intrigued generations. Stylistically, the writing is competent throughout--all the outer trappings are there. The problem is that these outer trappings never penetrate to what is essentially a hollow shell.     To begin with, the characters are flat and constantly walk the precipice of stereotype: there is the protective father with a mysterious past, the innocent, devoted daughter, the wise mentor, the romantic interest (with the face of \\"an angel,\\" yet)and even--in a particularly cringeworthy turn--the goodhearted foreigner, whose broken English is apparently meant to be realistic but instead veers into an unfortunate parody.     All of these characters tend to be reactive to things that happen to them rather than taking initiative on their own, and their reactions tend to be predictable. Helen, the father's companion in the investigation, is an exception, but her character alone is not strong enough to salvage an entire book. The dialogue consists of what is strictly necessary to convey the characters from point A to point B of the plot, without idiosyncrasies that make them stand out as individuals and without entertaining exchanges of any kind. Even a vampire novel might contain a glimmer of humor or everyday moments to offset the prevailing darkness, but this concept does not seem to occur to Kostova.     That the characters are constantly traveling from one exotic location to another has been made much of in reviews. However, there is a fine line between an enthralling journey and a dry travelogue, and \\"The Historian\\" crosses that line on a regular  basis. In the age of the camera, detailed descriptions of places such as Venice and Oxford are not automatically of interest; what such descriptions should do--especially in a supernatural novel--is convey atmosphere and conjoin with the story's overarching themes. In \\"Interview with the Vampire\\"--the obvious comparison--the darkly sensuous depiction of New Orleans and nineteenth century Paris are not written purely to revel in the exotic, but to create a mood that settles deep in the reader's bones. A prerequisite for any supernatural novel, particularly one with literary pretensions, and yet here too \\"The Historian\\" falls short, with its clinical and painstakingly detailed descriptions taking up a great deal of paper and yet seldom, if ever, evoking atmosphere.      I've been saving the plot for last, because in a way this is deepest of the gaping holes in this book, since an intricate plot is the centerpiece of what has been promised. The fact is that anyone who has read more than ten books in their lifetime will be able to predict nearly everything that happens and is \\"revealed\\" in this book, from the murder victims to the \\"secrets\\" about the past. Minor characters are introduced in order to be bumped off or otherwise harmed with agonizing predictability.      But it gets worse, because this allegedly intelligent book makes no sense on a number of vital points. For example, the characters are initially moved to investigate Dracula because a mysterious book appears amid their possessions. Try as they might to get rid of it, it keeps coming back. So they investigate, and as soon as they start investigating, the people helping them or people close to them start to get killed or hurt. The message from Dracula is obviously that he doesn't want them investigating him, but in that case, who has been leaving these books around so aggressively and why doesn't Dracula kill THEM, the main characters, instead of their friends and assistants?  Believe me, after reading this book you won't want to be a librarian, and especially not a librarian who aids people in researching the occult. According to this book, which provides numerous examples, you'd be due for a messy end before long. Or before page 300, at any rate. The researchers themselves are inexplicably allowed to continue on their mission, but the librarians who help them are doomed.     More problems: Rossi's letter (quoted on the back flap) beginning \\"My dear and unfortunate successor.\\" How did he know he would have a successor, let alone an unfortunate one? The book doesn't explain. Now it's possible--yes, I know--that after page 300 all the above questions are answered and end up making sense, but even if that's the case, why do these questions never occur to the characters, who are highly educated and presumably intelligent?       In the same vein, at one point the characters are relying on Bram Stoker's \\"Dracula\\" for information on how to deal with vampires, apparently forgetting that they are historians and that relying on one source--and a recent work of fiction, at that--doesn't make any kind of sense. These are, let me point out, people who are Ivy League educated and beyond. And they open \\"Dracula\\" for information. In the '50s, which is not even that long a time after the book was published.      Certainly there are references to other (fictitious?) sources of history, mostly pertaining to Vlad the Impaler aka Count Dracula, but they surround the most painful failure of the novel, which is that the villain is both stupid (killing off harmless librarians) and honestly, neither interesting nor scary. The story has been described as \\"chilling,\\" I assume because it's creepy to find bodies of dead librarians, but even so, that's not enough darkness to fill the shoes of a creature from myth. We are given no clue as to Dracula's motives for what he does, other than that--he's evil! Which...Yawn. Again, after page 300 he might become more interesting, but that's far too late. The tension and an atmosphere of darkness should have been pervasive from page one; if it's not there yet, there's something wrong.      If you are not given to reading often and are not demanding in your choice of reading material, you might give this a try. But I would caution the more discerning reader to wait for the library copy, because while the mysteries in this book don't compel me one bit, I am greatly mystified by the extent to which it has been hyped. I bought intoit. All I can do now is urge others to proceed with more caution.	2005-06-15
US	49899711	RV1IN7QU9VBAH	0698119517	986939045	Hope Was Here (2001 Newbery Honor Book)	Books	2	31	52	N	N	Hope for YA Books Was Here	As a reader who is no longer within the \\"age demographic\\" that is targeted by this book, I read YA novels because I have found that behind the deceptively simple writing, there is often as much--if not more--depth than can be found in the \\"adult\\" section (Pornography is \\"adult\\"...need I say more?). Ellen Raskin, Robin McKinley, and the inimitable Lloyd Alexander are only a few of the authors who have written YA books that made such an impact that they have undergone numerous reprints and still enjoy wide popularity years after they were written. Those who turn up their noses at such \\"teen\\" fare are missing a rare opportunity.<br /> When I encountered \\"Hope Was Here,\\" the first thing I noticed was that it was a Newbery Honor Book. This led me to believe that Joan Bauer had written a book on par with the very best of YA fiction; unfortunately, what I instead discovered is that a wonderfully told story is no longer the standard by which these books are judged. Instead, awards are given to books that are thought to teach some valuable moral lesson; moreover, that lesson must be within the earnest guidelines of current (for it is ever-changing) political correctness. Characters and plot can fall to the wayside. The message is all that matters. <br /> And indeed, plot and character fall to the wayside very quickly. Part of what helps to define a character is motivations, and we are never given to understand what exactly motivates Hope, a newcomer to the town, to jump instantly and with profound devotion onto G.T.'s political bandwagon. She has not been living in the town: she has only just met him, and the issues he addresses in his speech have no personal resonance for her as a newcomer. Yet this does not faze her for one moment. Never once does she question her own devotion, or wonder how she was swept up in this political ardor with such speed. Hope is willing to sacrifice her own safety to elect G.T., yet we are given no indication why.<br /> The character begins to be lost at that moment, and it's all downhill from there. The other characters are cardboard cutouts, and depressingly predictable. There's the Saint, the Handsome Teen Love Interest, and the Perfect Caretaker/Gruff Cook. Seriously. The bad guys are unremittingly evil, so much so that anyone who is planning to vote for them can only be thought idiots or evil themselves. There are no shades of gray in Hope's world, or, apparently, in Bauer's political field of vision. <br /> We know Eli Millstone is a Big Evil conservative oppressing the simple people in favor of a massive corporation, and G.T. is the good-hearted liberal whose motives are pure as the driven. Children will therefore not learn the realities and complexities of politics, because the message of this book is a good-versus-evil fantasy that leaves no room for subtleties or moral questions. <BR> <BR> All such weighty matters aside, this book does not even deliver on the basic requirements for a good read: plot and characterization. Every phase of the plot, from the couplings to the incessant triumphs of good over evil, is apparent long before it has happened. The characters never surprise us. The writing is decent, and Hope's backstory is more interesting than the one she is currently in. <BR> <BR> In keeping with the lack of moral complexity that pervades this book, Hope is perfect: she never gets angry, and everyone in the restaurant adores her. She understands that life is hard and has all the answers already, at sixteen. <br /> The book is strung together with numerous disparate moments, many of which are clearly meant to be \\"sweet,\\" but because of their lack of real context, end up being saccharine. We have to care for the moment to matter. On the other hand, there is something almost cinematic about the story's structure, with its clear-cut characters, quirky townspeople, and black-and-white cookie sweetness. While I don't think \\"Hope\\" has succeeded (artistically) as a book, it may yet succeed as a movie.	2004-07-19
US	49899711	R1XAR31BUA258F	006447352X	512932093	Fire and Hemlock	Books	5	73	76	N	N	Beautiful and haunting	I had to give this book five stars, even though it isn't perfect. The plot is confusing at times, with holes that could have been filled in if the author had done some tweaking. Another drawback is that some of the best characters--like the quartet--tend to be given short shrift. Yet even with these drawbacks, a fantasy of this calibre is not likely to come along often enough so as to be taken for granted. Hence the five stars.<br /> As I mentioned above, there are plot holes, but this is a side effect of the chief beauty of this book: its mystery. The story is set in our world--1980's England, to be exact--and the fantasy elements are laid on in subtle nuances of depth and detail. A slight otherworldly quality--almost too subtle to be detected--mars an otherwise commonplace funeral. Everyday events take on the significance of revelations. The magic itself is of the type that more often than not creeps at the edges of things, pervading the story with an atmosphere that is by turns haunting, fascinating, and occasionally hilarious.<br /> With a deft hand the author weaves the ballad of Tam Lin and Thomas the Rhymer together with the story a young girl, and soon enough the magic of legend and her mundane life intertwine. Polly is a \\"hero\\" in more than one sense: not only by virtue of her role as it is projected in the ballad, but also due to her struggles to cope with an increasingly unbearable living situation. It is not only the darkness of evil magic that Polly must eventually face, but also its everyday counterpart: the divorce and callous negligence of her parents.<br /> The cast of characters and their relationships are wonderful, down to every last individual; it is their believability and richness that makes this book impossible to put down. There is also a refreshing realism in their interactions that plays a necessary counterpoint to the otherwise murky strangeness of the atmosphere. Children grow to adulthood as we watch them, their friendships and alliances change; the relationship between Polly and Tom Lynn grows ever more complex, undergoing constant shifts and adjustments.<br /> You will find this book in the Young Adult section, but most readers of fantasy know that this is no reason to be put off. Diana Wynne Jones is one of the best YA fantasy writers around, and this is one of her darkest, deepest, and most complex books. You may need to reread it to fully understand what has happened by the somewhat bewildering conclusion--but if you enjoy it the first time, that should not be a chore, but a pleasure.	2003-02-10
US	49899711	ROUPGG431IT15	0679450041	383312801	The Amazing Adventures of Kavalier & Clay: A Novel	Books	3	137	151	N	N	Not life-changing, but worth the read.	When I read this book, I didn't even know that it had won the Pulitzer Prize--there's no trace of that information anywhere on the library hardback that I read. So I was blissfully unaware that I was reading what was supposed to be a Literary Masterpiece, and I would have been surprised if I had known.<br /> There's no doubt that Michael Chabon is a master of his craft; his writing is a mix of the matter-of-fact and flights of fantasy, and often reality is granted an additional glow of the magical. His characters are real from the start: Sammy, Joe, Ethel and Kornblum are not talking heads, but characters who are distinct and touching in their fallibility.<br />Probably the best aspect of this book is where it deals with art, and art and escapism are themes that are tightly woven throughout this story until they become inseparable. At first art is the means to manipulate one's personal reality, as Joe convinces himself that he is fighting the war against the Nazis by having his hero fight them in the comics; and later this idea is carried further, so that art is not only used to manipulate reality, but to escape it utterly; and this is viewed as the ultimate goal of the artist. <br /> Another high point of the novel is its moments in which the blend of art and realism are so seamless that at first it is difficult to tell where reality ends and the art begins. These moments are consistent with the magical atmosphere that marks Kavalier and Clay's \\"Golden Age,\\" as well as with the theme of art as a means of escape.<br />The theme of art and its relationship with escapism is the one theme that threads consistently throughout the novel. Otherwise, one might say that \\"Kavalier and Clay,\\" for all its strong points, is lacking in that after the tight, virtuoso beginning, the story loses focus and eventually all sense of unity. The plot becomes somewhat convoluted in the manner of John Irving, as if Chabon is throwing oddities into the mix just to keep things interesting. Hence we get Antarctica, the oddball marriage, and the threatened jump from the Empire State Building, which feel as if they are taking place in a world apart from the rich world to which we were originally introduced as readers, which was in itself so compelling. The result is that one begins to wonder where the original story went, if this is the same book, and to wish that it had ended before the pure magic of the atmosphere became replaced with coincidence and contrived circumstance.<br /> Another drawback to this book was Joe Kavalier himself, who was simply too much of a good thing, especially in contrast to Sammy Clay. Just when it seemed that there was nothing else that Joe could possibly be good at, something else came out to prove that assumption wrong. In comparison, Sammy comes across as a failure: his talent for writing is never vindicated in the way that Joe's talent for drawing is vindicated to the hilt from beginning to end; yet the original idea for the Escapist came from Sammy, so clearly he is not a wholly insignificant talent. <br />If Joe was meant to seem perfect and Sammy a failure, then this is not a drawback but a fact; but my sense of it was that somewhere, Sammy's story simply fell by the wayside to make way for Joe's. As a reader, I found Sammy a more interesting character precisely because nothing came easily to him and because he was so conflicted in every aspect of his life. Many times I found it strange that he was so unappreciated while Joe had center stage, yet this dynamic was never commented upon in the book, as if the author didn't notice it himself.<br /> Without giving anything away, the ending was a climax of banality, and not a particularly realistic one at that. It is as if the author became tired and just wanted to get it over with--a common occurrence, but a bit hard to take after the epic scale of this novel had seemed to promise so much. While \\"Kavalier and Clay\\" is worth the read, it leaves lacunae to tease the reader, like a detailed painting that trails away into emptiness.	2002-07-08
US	49899711	RXREWBG33RONM	0374518947	661222363	Sweeney Astray: A Version from the Irish	Books	5	22	23	N	N	Magnificent	&quot;Sweeney Astray&quot; is a masterpiece on many levels: for the complex weave of its themes to the lyrical quality of its prose--accentuated greatly, of course, by Seamus Heaney's virtuoso translation. <br /> We follow mad Sweeney in his crazed wanderings through the forest and hills, torn within himself by his love of the wild and his incurable loneliness. The tale is presented as chunks of narrative interspersed with segments of poetry, their quiet, melancholy beauty evoking the sounds of windsong and rain. <br /> There is an ethereal quality to this text that makes it difficult to describe. Although it would seem to have a storyline, in reality it is a song, and each &quot;event&quot; a new strain of music. Sweeney's longing for his lost life as a man and king, even as he is unable to stay away from his beloved wilds of Glen Bolcain, illustrate the conflict between the desire for peaceful conformity and for transcendence. This conflict is echoed in the struggle that was ensuing in Ireland even as this work was being written, the struggle between the Celtic religion and the new influx of Christianity. <br /> In this way does &quot;Sweeney Astray&quot; illuminate a historic revolution, while at the same time presenting themes that span eternity.	2002-06-18
US	49899711	R2LW46ZB4VHEFM	0553801481	130881552	Fool's Errand (The Tawny Man, Book 1)	Books	5	54	55	N	N	Beyond fantasy	Robin Hobb is a developing writer in the best sense of the word. In the original Farseer trilogy she gave us a story that was beautifully crafted and pushed the envelope on realism within fantasy. Liveship Traders was perhaps an experiment in the use of multiple viewpoints, with a dull and ponderous outcome to my mind. But in writing it, Hobb's skill has improved in bounds, to culminate finally in the utter perfection that is \\"Fool's Errand.\\"<br /> I say perfection even though the beginning might be slow for some readers. But once the story gets going, it takes off, plunging the reader into an ever-deepening plot and a world of characters who are among the most complex in the genre. <br /> <br /> In particular, Fitz has only gotten better as a character ever since the original trilogy. Age has matured him and given him new dimensions; and yet at the same time, the scars from childhood still remain, surfacing in ways that are beyond his power and even beyond his awareness. It is possible to perceive how Burrich's upbringing and initial abuse have molded Fitz and how his upbringing, together with his subsequent experiences, shape his responses now. Yet through it all he is the same FitzChivalry we know, speaking with the voice of age and experience, but still familiar. <br />This uncanny gift for psychological depth is unparalleled in the genre, and comparatively rare outside the genre as well. Hobb's characters have a quality of mystery to them. There is more to them beyond the scope of the novel; somewhere they are having thoughts we cannot guess, saying things we shall never know about. Just as people in real life always have hidden depths that are beyond anyone's power to see, Fitz, the Fool, Chade, Nighteyes, Starling and the rest of the cast are not completely revealed to us. Some part of the soul remains backstage, hidden from view, because a depth is there that is so real, it must be infinite.<br /> How the author conveys this I do not know, but it infuses thenovel with movement and intoxicating power. Add this to a riveting and unpredictable plot, moral complexity and as skilled prose as you'll find anywhere, and one clearly has a masterpiece in the making.	2002-06-06
US	49899711	R57YXHAESIKAM	0312875304	559330677	Daughter of the Forest (The Sevenwaters Trilogy, Book 1)	Books	3	38	52	N	N	Riveting	Marillier here presents an exceedingly well-executed retelling, one that in hands less skilled would have failed miserably. To write a book that manages to be suspenseful and intriguing while the main character cannot utter a word is a rare accomplishment. Rarer still is the author's ability to make the reader truly care about the characters. Sorcha's experiences of loss and heartbreak are keenly felt, as are the various tragedies that befall the characters over the course of the story. This is by no means a light read, but its tight plot and economical prose make it impossible to put down.<br /> There are drawbacks, however, which keep it from being great as opposed to just good. One of the lesser drawbacks is the one-dimensionality of the evil Lady Oonagh. As soon as she comes, somehow everyone instantly knows and accepts the idea that she is evil. Although the characters are supposed to have intuitive powers that would make this believable, it still fails to be convincing. It would have made greater impact to show why the Lady Oonagh is evil (which does happen eventually) *before* all the characters leap into defensive positions. As it is, their reaction to her arrival seems over-dramatized (calling her engagement to their father a &quot;tragedy&quot;) given their limited knowledge of her.<br /> Another limitation of the story is its tendency to make a martyr of the main character. While one cannot help but admire Sorcha's strength through all her trials, sometimes that admiration becomes annoyance and one begins to wonder: Does she have any flaws? Sorcha's unimpeachable actions from start to finish in the face of her universal rejection sometimes make her too much the stereotypical angel in the house. In much the same way, Red is so perfect as to be almost ridiculous.<br /> The last drawback is purely subjective: I dislike romance novels, and the book is wrapped up in such a way that it turns the entire story, in retrospect, into a romance. I had liked the romantic relationship in the story when I thought it was incidental to the plot; once it became the main point, it quickly went sour for me--the whole story then was stood on its head and became a conventional love story. In fact, that is why I gave &quot;Daughter of the Forest&quot; three stars instead of four--the ending changed my entire perspective of the book. But for those who enjoy romance, this should not be a problem.<br /> On the whole, this is a well-written, fast-paced and vividly characterized story. In addition to all this, it evokes images that are haunting and poetic, contains themes of love and sorrow that echo through it like a melody. Despite the drawbacks enumerated above, &quot;Daughter of the Forest&quot; is an exceptional debut novel and well worth reading.	2002-01-13
US	49899711	RI0WCTN79797X	0141306386	86353200	In a Dark Wood	Books	4	12	14	N	N	Shadows of the heart	The YA imprint and miniscule dimensions of this book give it the appearance of being lightweight, but that would be a mistaken impression. It is adult, if not graphically so, and although it is short, it is packed with complexity of texture and character development. <br /> I was afraid, upon approaching this book, that it would be no more complicated than a simple reversal of the Robin Hood legend; that the entire thrust of the book would be to prove that the sheriff was not so bad after all, a sort of politically correct effort to prove that &quot;I'm OK, You're OK&quot;. In actual fact, while the sheriff is a sympathetic character by virtue of being the main character, he is a complex man, and the Robin Hood legend is merely a vehicle in order to explore that complexity. He is degenerate, yet in his degeneracy he is struggling to find meaning and purpose in his life. Although he is physically courageous, Geoffrey is uncomfortable in the wild wood, and is most at home within the walls of his keep.  <br /> Robin Hood and his outlaws are made of darker stuff than in other versions of the legends: they are mutilated, wretched, desperate. Yet for this very reason, Robin Hood's spirit shines even brighter through the grime. Rather than being a character of equal complexity to the sheriff, he is symbolic of all that the sheriff fears: everything that is wild, unpredictable, beyond his control. The dark wood is the darkness within Geoffrey himself, and by braving its depths he makes unexpected discoveries that change his life.<br /> <br /> The prose is rich in metaphor and the medieval setting beautifully rendered. Cadnum most conspicuously draws on Chaucer to bring the setting to life, but at the same time makes it his own. The characters are each in their own way vivid and realistic, in particular Hugh and the Geoffrey's wife. This book is probably not as popular as other Robin Hood retellings because it does not glitter with heroism and pageantry, but it is by far more complex and adult than most retellings, which more than compensates for its superifical lack of lustre.	2002-01-06
US	49899711	R3D2TBLO3675TN	0449910067	661337944	The Oracle Glass: A Novel	Books	2	40	53	N	N	Escapism for fantasy fans	Don't get me wrong, I don't think this is a bad book. For one thing, it has a great setting: what could be more fun than 17th century Paris mixed with witchcraft and court intrigue? The main character is believable and even intelligent. And the first half of the book is riveting, with a plot that moves along in curves and twists and keeps you coming back for more.<br /> The problems start coming in about halfway through the book. The plot, which had been hurtling along at a brisk pace, grinds to a halt. The characters start to get into a fixed routine that rapidly becomes stale, and all the suspense evaporates. In fact, Genevieve predicts the ending of the book several times throughout the story, so there's no fear of her being killed or even emotionally hurt. <br /> Emotional scenes need work--they have all the plausibility of a B-movie performance. I got the impression that the author has an intellectual understanding of such scenes, without a true grasp of the feeling behind them. As a result, romance is a crutch rather than a highlight of this book. The same holds true for some of the characters--they are intellectual constructs of a certain character type rather than psychologically complex people. <br /> It's also a pity that the court intrigue, so often hyped in the first half of the book, is really not as complex and vivid as it could have been. Perhaps what really irked me about this book is that with such a great setting, the plot had enormous potential, but instead just peters out. It is worth reading to get a feel for the period, and it's fun in its way. I would recommend it to fantasy fans in need of pure escapism, with Riley as a sort of fantasy counterpart to Danielle Steel. If you come to it expecting to have fun and nothing more, you probably  won't be disappointed.	2001-12-03
US	49899711	R1Q0ED9EPFEW2G	1857236106	77112745	Colours in the Steel (Fencer, Book 1)	Books	4	77	81	N	N	If  you want to open a vein...	...This series provides plenty of incentive. I feel compelled to warn potential readers of this before recommending it, because despite its fine qualities, I'm not sure I want to have read this. <br /> The Fencer trilogy is by all accounts a very well-executed and unusual fantasy. Its technical emphasis on weaponry and warfare is more likely to appeal to people with a technical frame of mind, but at the same time, these technical details tie brilliantly with the various themes running throughout the series. The first book focuses on the forging of swords, the second on the fashioning of bows, and the third on the making of armor: and it becomes clear that these intricate processes are meant to illustrate the growth process of the main character, Bardas Loredan.<br />Middle-aged, cynical and unemotional, Bardas is by no means the typical hero of fantasy. In fact, it is impossible to call him a hero at all; the books are too original for so conventional an approach to fantasy. Bardas has no grand destiny, and his role in large events is without his choice and without benefit to those around him. The whole cast of characters is beautifully drawn: Bardas's clerk Athli, his brother Gorgas, and others are all vividly human and complex in a way that is refreshing in an increasingly generic genre. <br /> Parker's writing style is utterly his own: dry, clinical, yet with a satirical wit similar to that of Douglas Adams, but far more subtle. His incisive parodies range from the conventions of fantasy to conventions in the real world, and one almost has the impression that barring a few incredibly horrific and emotional moments, Parker has written this series completely with his tongue firmly in cheek. He has not even attempted to give his work magical overtones through language: the writing is completely modern, and colloquial Britishisms abound. <br />This is not to say that there is no magic in the Fencer trilogy--there is, and its nature and manner of manifesting itself are conveyed with broad and powerful strokes. <br />   Overall, the trilogy has two drawbacks: the pace tends to be relatively slow--though not, I might add, slower than that of the Chronicles of Thomas Covenant, and the brisk prose runs faster than that of Donaldson. The other drawback, to me, was more serious: that in the end I felt almost as if I had been lured into a trap, through reading these books, to be extremely miserable. If such was the author's intention, I have only to say that it worked. But not wishing such misery on others, I would warn more emotional readers, particularly those who develop a fondness for characters, to exercise due caution.	2001-08-16
US	49899711	RWP0XK48HZZSN	1557832307	4605142	Cyrano de Bergerac: by Edmund Rostand translated by Anthony Burgess	Books	5	52	56	N	N	An exquisite tragi-comedy	If there's one thing that has me miffed, it's those ridiculous academic critiques of this play. Yes, it's unrealistic, yes, it's energetic to the point of insanity, yes, the character of Cyrano is particularly vulnerable to the ridiculous Freudian analyses that Lit. professors are obsessed with. But the essence of this work, what makes it breathe, are the very qualities so mocked by elitists: its color, its flamboyance, and above all its wonderfully unashamed idealism.<br /> <br />First of all, this is entertaining reading at its best: a combination of witty repartee and laugh-out-loud humor, balanced with emotional depth that is subtle yet wrenching in its intensity. With just a few lines the scenes come alive, with characters whose brash gallantry is reminiscent of Dumas' Musketeers. <br /> All this virtuoso treatment finds a focal point in the character of Cyrano, who is at once comic and tragic: his biting wit provides a facade for a soul in torment, for his sensitivity to beauty makes his own ugliness that much more painful. Yet there is so much fire and pride in Cyrano that never once does he beg for our pity, and endures the pain of thwarted love with the same charisma and bravery with which he does battle. <br />The contradiction between Cyrano as he is inside--a veritable furnace of eloquent passion--and his markedly ugly exterior, is his tragedy. Through the vehicle of this contradiction, Edmond Rostand explores the nature of love, particularly regarding how much of it is dependant upon exteriors. Yet this theme does not smother the tale, which is such a heady mixture of beauty, hilarity and subtle insight that it fairly intoxicates. My only complaint, upon finishing it, was that it had to end.	2001-08-16
US	49899711	R3H6R3XXCMY514	0449911616	693502039	The Crystal Cave (The Arthurian Saga, Book 1)	Books	3	18	28	N	N	Has its good points...	Based on Geoffrey of Monmouth's account of the Arthurian legend, Mary Stewart's &quot;The Crystal Cave&quot; is essentially Merlin's story. Probably the most striking aspect of the novel is the obviously detailed research which Stewart put into it: from the tunnels in the Roman fortress where Merlin grows up to the subtle nuances of daily life, the author demonstrates a remarkable comfort zone with historical background. This facility for historical detail combined with graceful writing ensures that &quot;The Crystal Cave&quot; is a cut above mediocre.<br />On the other hand, the book has many flaws which prevent it from being exceptional, or even particularly worthwhile reading. The most glaring of these flaws is the character of Merlin: despite the fact that the novel is written from the first-person viewpoint--or perhaps because of it--it is impossible to feel close to the main character or even to be able to know him in any great depth. If asked to describe him at any point in the novel, I would have only been able to say that Merlin is physically weak and perhaps lonely. These are the only characteristics that are apparent--everything else is misty and interchangeable. One moment Merlin is sentimental, the next he is wry and sarcastic, without any seeming connection between the two. In fact, it often seems as if Merlin is voicing the thoughts of Mary Stewart herself instead of his own thoughts as a distinct character. <br />I could not help but compare Mary Stewart's handling of Merlin to Robin Hobb's treatment of her main character in the Farseer trilogy, which is also told in the first-person. The contrast is painfully obvious: Robin Hobb proves in the Farseer trilogy that creating a character in the first-person can heighten the reader's emotional connection to the character, but by the same token Mary Stewart has shown that the opposite effect is possible, too. Apparently using the first-person perspective can distance the character just as easily as draw him close. And since the story revolves exclusively around Merlin, a lack of connection between him and the reader is death for the story as a whole.<br />Another flaw in the novel was a result of Stewart's modeling the novel so carefully upon Geoffrey of Monmouth's account of the Arthurian legend. As anyone who has read it knows, that plotline is not exactly brilliant, believable or realistic. While it is handy as a foundation for the novel, the author commits the fatal mistake of allowing herself to be trapped by Geoffrey's account, and lets his story imprison hers instead of remodeling it to suit her needs. This results in some highly unrealistic actions of characters which seem to have no motivation other than to move the story along its traditional lines. This happens often enough that it becomes impossible to suspend disbelief. The actions of Merlin's mother in Vortigern's court, as well as the entire fiasco with Igraine and Uther, are indicative of this: the characters behave without the logic or sense of purpose necessary to lend them believability.<br />Lastly, it is disappointing that Merlin's magic is given such short shrift. Naturally we know he has magic, he knows he has magic--heck, everyone knows he has magic--but aside from a few hazy visions and some vague allusions to healing, this magic is never dealt with in any detail. This gives the impression more than anything that Stewart was too busy hurrying through Geoffrey's legend to spare any time for personal details, and it also contributes further to the distancing of Merlin from the reader. If we do not even know about the very thing that makes Merlin tick, that separates him from other people, that makes him black out if he tries to have relations with a woman so that he never can, then what do we know about him, really?<br />On a more positive note, minor characters are often portrayed vividly and well, in particular the companions Merlin acquires over the years, Cerdic and Cadal. These charactersprovide humor and emotion in an otherwise bleak landscape, and it is only a pity that we do not get to see more of them. <br />This book makes for interesting reading, but that is only when taking into account its flaws. It is a must for die-hard Arthurian fans, who will probably not even notice the flaws.	2001-06-01
US	49899711	R1AOQT0GCM8SXF	0140422536	485659651	Idylls of the King (Penguin Classics)	Books	4	72	79	N	N	The music of legend...	If Malory's &quot;Le Morte D'Arthur&quot; is the backbone of Arthurian literature, Tennyson's &quot;Idylls&quot; are its flesh and blood. In this extraordinary epic poem, Tennyson has transformed Malory's automatons to living and breathing characters, and infuses the legend of King Arthur with passionate intensity that had hitherto been absent. In addition to this, for the first time King Arthur's story, told in its immensity, becomes something more than a dry cataloguing of events or an excuse to have knights and derring-do: underlying &quot;Idylls of the King&quot; is a vision of tragedy and destiny only vaguely hinted at in Malory.<br />Admittedly, this is not the easiest thing in the world to read, but simply reading major parts is worth it, without necessarily following the story of Tristram or other such details. Most interesting in this poem is the relationship between Guinevere and Lancelot, which is complicated and sometimes dark. Tennyson's characters are complex beings, complete with inner shadows and desires which sometimes conflict with the ideals put forth by Arthur's &quot;Table Round.&quot; <br />Since it is after all Tennyson, the language is breathtaking, though one familiar with his other poetry might be slightly regretful, as I was, that it occasionally lacks the power of his other poems. Perhaps this is to be expected, given the length: and since it is Tennyson, less powerful than his other work is still marvelous.<br />Some may be irritated by Tennyson's moralistic streak, which is hard to ignore, as well as the distinct parallels with Christianity which the poet introduces from time to time. The idea that women somehow embody all sin certainly makes an appearance here, as Guinevere is sometimes portrayed almost as evil incarnate.   <br />Nonetheless, with its almost mystical undertones, beautiful language and psychological complexity, &quot;Idylls of the King&quot; is worth checking out, whether you are a fan of King Arthur or Tennyson; it isan epic which combines emotion and the magical, life and the legendary.	2001-04-20
US	49899711	RSTTOZZTALND8	0590436643	640887696	A Pack of Lies: Twelve Stories in One (Point)	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Criminally underappreciated!	Anyone who enjoys young adult fantasy, particularly that of Diana Wynne Jones, would be advised to hunt down this tiny gem of a novel. It can also be appreciated by those who do not like fantasy but simply enjoy intelligent Young Adult novels, such as Ellen Raskin's &quot;The Westing Game.&quot; Someone appreciated it at one time, for it won the Carnegie Medal, and why it is out of print now is a mystery. &quot;A Pack of Lies&quot; is almost flawless on every level: the characters are real, the writing deft and the plotting perfect. Most of all, it is incredibly original, standing completely on its own.<br />&quot;A Pack of Lies&quot; is not obviously fantasy--the setting is contemporary, and &quot;magic&quot; per se does not exist in any tangible form. It is referred to as being &quot;twelve stories in one&quot; because the book comprises twelve stories within the main plotline. Part of the author's genius is that each story has its own distinctive style, each suited for the atmosphere and setting of that particular story. The tales range from lighthearted to moving to downright sinister, and each has its place within the main story as a whole, like gems in a beautiful setting.  There are a couple of weak ones, like the &quot;horror&quot; story and the poem, which some might find a disappointing replacement for a story. But these are more than made up for by the others; each is lovely in its own unique way.<br />The book is also worth reading for the wonderful characters, who capture the reader's emotions despite the short space they have been alotted. The connection one feels by the end is what makes the ending so climactic...and of course I won't give it away.<br />What I so admire about this author is that she conceived a brilliant idea, went with it, and succeeded better than most writers ever could have. It is a shame that she has not written any other books, and equally a shame that this masterwork of hers has not earned the public recognition it deserves.	2001-04-12
US	49899711	R16ZU28QB5C617	0553210351	990247892	The Death of Ivan Ilyich (Bantam Classics)	Books	5	158	164	N	N	I stand amazed...	There are so many levels upon which this story can be read, yet they are woven so inextricably into this masterpiece that the complexity is staggering. The premise sounds simple: a man who is about to die realizes he has never fully lived. We've all heard this before--in fact, Hollywood likes to drum such messages into our heads on a regular basis. But rarely, if ever, is it portrayed with the exquisite mastery which Tolstoy employed upon writing &quot;The Death of Ivan Ilyich&quot;.<br /> Paradoxically, this story is just as much about the life of Ivan Ilyich as it is about his death. This is in order to fully appreciate who he is and the man he has made of himself before disaster strikes. It is also to highlight both the tragic deterioration of his life and the gradual enlightenment of his inmost soul.<br /> In portraying Ivan Ilyich's character, Tolstoy's subtle but inexorable condemnation is devastating. Not a detail is gratuitous: every point further serves to illustrate what is essentially a life without ideals and without purpose. Yet the author does not beat us over the head with this, rather than allowing the clear and unembellished facts to speak for themselves. And the way Tolstoy knew exactly which facts to accentuate creates a psychological depth which is unparalleled.<br /> Many seem to be under the impression that Ivan Ilyich was some sort of villain, and that the story is a warning against corruption and bad behavior. My personal view is that Ivan Ilyich is no worse--although no better--than many people. Perhaps he is of a slightly lesser moral calibre than most, but that does not make him completely evil. To believe that he is evil is to miss the whole point, for this story was meant to be universal, to depict a reality which exists for us all. This is obvious from the way the story begins, with Ivan Ilyich's friends' and relatives' reactions to his death. Like him, they see death as something that can never happen to them, and like him they lead lives which are shallow and superficial in an attempt to avoid the unpleasant realities of life. By the time he dies, Ivan Ilyich has risen above these people by at last coming to the realization of the worthlessness of his life. This has elevated him above the common man, who avoids the reality of death and the effort it takes to make life worthwhile. In Tolstoy's own words, &quot;Ivan Ilyich's life had been...most ordinary and therefore most terrible.&quot;<br /> Therein lies the impact of this story: Ivan Ilyich is Everyman, and the message he represents is applicable at every moment in our lives.	2001-02-16
US	49899711	R3IN7VM3B6QK5M	0192100289	424220149	The Moonstone (Oxford World's Classics Hardcovers)	Books	3	5	9	N	N	Nice, but not great.	Much can be said for Wilkie Collins's &quot;The Moonstone&quot;. The setting is drawn with a fine hand, and the characters are endearing from the outset. It also begins with a compelling setup which holds the reader's interest and curiousity. The combination of British conventionality in the 1800's--so delightful to read about now that it is safely far away--and the looming spectre of an Asian curse are irrestistible ingredients which seem to bode well for the coming tale.<br /> Much of the writing is satiric, sometimes falling away into almost slapstick humor, which detracts from any deadly seriousness. Examples of this range from the outspoken sententiousness of Miss Clack to the &quot;Robinson Crusoe&quot;-thumping tendencies of Betteredge. These elements add color and life to what would otherwise be a ponderous text.<br /> Unfortunately, &quot;ponderous&quot; sums up &quot;The Moonstone&quot; pretty well. There really is no reason for it to be so long, and most of this length is filled with conversations and descriptions which are simply extraneous and even dull. This becomes painfully clear by the end, when it turns out that the solution to the mystery of the stolen Moonstone is absurdly simple. It is a disappointingly deus ex machina conclusion which rendered all the buildup unnecessary. Sir Arthur Conan Doyle has had similar endings to his stories in the past, but those stories were less than a tenth of the length of this novel. As a short story, &quot;The Moonstone&quot; would probably have fared much better.  <br />It is also unfortunate that the most important characters in the story, namely Rachel Verinder and Franklin Blake, are some of the least developed in comparison to others. Rachel is likable, and as an 18th century female character, as strong as any feminist could wish, but she remains at a distance from the reader and it is hard to care about her. Franklin Blake is also likable, but mostly flat. Ironically it is Godfrey Ablewhite, who appears simplistic in the beginning, who displays more dimensions of personality.  <br />As far as execution is concerned, &quot;The Woman in White&quot; is far superior to this novel, and highly recommended to anyone interested in a suspenseful Gothic-style thriller. &quot;The Moonstone&quot; makes for a pleasant read, but with so many good books out there, should be reserved for a rainy day.	2001-02-05
US	49899711	R12UQ6STN8DUI8	1563151448	194602540	Wysard	Books	4	10	12	N	N	A lyrical  novel	In &quot;Wysard&quot;, Carolyn Kephart weaves a tale that is strung with  musical cadences throughout, flowing with the melodious beauty of an epic poem. The storyline itself is simple, relaying the adventures of the wysard Ryel and his quest to save the World--and himself--from the clutches of an overwhelming dark power. This theme, combined with its lyric rhythm, liken &quot;Wysard&quot; to Ursula LeGuin's &quot;Wizard of Earthsea&quot;. <br />There the similarities end, for &quot;Wysard&quot; is not a novel that confines itself to the mystical heights of fantasy: while Kephart succeeds in exploring the unearthly dimension of the magical, it is with a keen edge of earthly sensuality. And sensual indeed is Kephart's prose, conveying a vast array of gorgeous and terrifying images that linger long after the tale has ended. It is also strangely dreamlike, creating an atmosphere of otherworldly fantasy similar to Peter Beagle's &quot;Last Unicorn&quot;. <br />Given the majestic tone of the story and the higher plane of fantasy upon which it is built, it seems appropriate that the characters are somewhat larger-than-life, and this does not interfere with the reader's ability to relate to them in the slightest. Ryel's relationship with Priamnor is well-drawn and one of the highlights of the book, but more moving is the relationship of Ryel and Edris. A romance is also clearly in the offing, but thus far Kephart has only tantalized the reader with hints of it.<br />The plot is constructed with a slight reliance on the use of flashbacks, which is nice change from the usual info-dump. However, occasionally there appear to be logical gaps in the plot, or things come up quite suddenly without a prior rationale or introduction attached (such as Priam's siblings, who seem to come into existence when they are needed). Diara could also use more of a personality, but since she did not feature in this book overmuch, that is perhaps work that is being reserved for the next book. <br/>In &quot;Wysard&quot;, Kephart has created a vivid world with interesting characters and world-sized conflicts. Most notably, she has succeeded in suffusing her novel with something which is sadly lacking in many fantasy novels: an atmosphere of magic.	2001-01-23
US	49899711	R2FOVS1VM0L1HO	0553106635	549456361	A Storm of Swords (A Song of Ice and Fire, Book 3)	Books	4	104	123	N	N	Ungushingly critical....	George R.R. Martin is certainly one of the most skilled writers in the genre today, and &quot;A Storm of Swords&quot; unfailingly continues to uphold the rigorous standard he set for himself in &quot;A Game of Thrones&quot;. The enormous cast of complex characters, combined with complicated intrigue and a riveting plot make the book almost impossible to put down.   <br />The world of the Seven Kingdoms is richly detailed, but more impressive is Martin's facility to create an atmosphere through detail. From the way he writes, it would seem that he knows what every tankard in every inn looks like, and what every one of the thousands of warriors, knights, and aristocrats is wearing down to the last buckle, even if these details are not always included. In short, Martin clearly knows his world inside-out, and thus is able to convey even more than is usual an atmosphere of reality in a fantasy world. He also excels in scene-painting, and every sensual nuance comes alive--sometimes, in violent scenes, more than one might like.  <br />Another feature that sets Martin apart is his unpredictability. Even the most jaded reader will be surprised by something in the plot, which hurtles along in a speeding fury, killing nearly everyone in its path. There are no indestructible characters, which is rare for any genre.<br />Martin is also unique in that there is very little good and evil; even the Lannisters, who were pure evil in the beginning, are starting to morph into more complex characters. The reverse is also true, and most of the sympathetic or neutral characters reveal traits that are downright nasty. Nice people don't last long in Martin's world, as Eddard was first to learn; and sometimes the cruelty of even the most sympathetic characters can be jarring.<br />As for the characters themselves, Tyrion is just amazing. 'Nuff said.<br />However, I am disturbed by all the comparisons to Tolkien, as well as the widespread assertion that there is no fantasy out there better oron a level with this. Martin's approach, which is to develop multiple threads and follow each (for the most part) separately, has the upside in that it contributes to the overall complexity of the story. However, this approach also has a very distinctive downside, which is that character development and the reader's emotional involvement with the characters must take a permanent back seat. This plot is so immense, so sprawling, that ultimately it leaves no opportunity for the reader to become deeply absorbed in it--there are too many things which require the reader's attention for this to be possible. Each plotline skims the surface of an idea and a character's development, but because of the limited time slot is not able to explore them in greater depth. <br />For example, Jon's plotline in &quot;A Game of Thrones&quot;, when he was making friends and enemies in Castle Black, was vaguely reminiscent of &quot;Ender's Game&quot; in the challenges that were presented to the character. Unfortunately, because Martin had so many other threads to take care of, most of the development in this thread went on behind the scenes: in one chapter Jon would be on bad terms with most of the boys. Then the plot switches away from him, and by the time it returns, Jon has managed to adjust and make some friends. The transition occurred while we were following Dany and Eddard--and while we certainly wanted to know about them, the fact that this major transition happened without us automatically means that Jon has become more distant from the reader than he otherwise might have been.<br />There is nothing wrong with this approach to the genre; it is a certain style that appeals more to some and less to others. Its main advantage is that it gives Martin a huge canvas upon which to use the many colors in his palette, an opportunity to create an endless array of dramatic events and atmospheric settings. But the disadvantage cannot be ignored, which is that although the broad and complexstoryline is &quot;a mile wide&quot;, it is also &quot;an inch deep&quot;.<br />Another thing which makes this different from most fantasies is the absence of a sense of the magical, of quests and the inevitable destiny of some few great ones. This is a tale that is mainly of political intrigue and war. As such, it bears almost no resemblance to epic fantasy, and shares closer ties with military fantasy. Thus there is very little sense in comparing this work to Tolkien's, for there is very little resemblance beyond the fact that they share the same bookshelf. It is also ridiculous to say that it is better than various epic fantasies, because the strengths of Martin's work are the weaknesses in most epic fantasy--and vice versa. Both have valuable elements to impart to the reader, and both should be considered separately.	2001-01-21
US	49899711	R3R3PXXD0VRYNT	0812550293	504533718	The Path of Daggers (The Wheel of Time, Book 8)	Books	1	15	18	N	N	Very amusing.	I stopped reading this series after the travesty that was &quot;A Crown of  Swords&quot;, and judging by most of the intelligent reviews, it was a wise  decision. <br />One thing amuses me: many people have been excusing Jordan by  proclaiming that this book is a 'transitional novel', setting the stage for  some grand action in the coming book. That may be, but I would like to  point out one thing--if you take a good look at the customer reviews for  Book 6, you will see people saying EXACTLY THE SAME THING. And if you look  at the customer reviews for Book 7--again, the common wisdom ran,  &quot;It's a transitional novel, and Book 8 will be the BIG one!&quot;  <br />Now, as I look at the reviews for Book 8, I cannot help but laugh. THREE  transitional novels in a row??? Hmmmm. <br />And one other thing--people are  recommending George R.R. Martin, but they fail to mention his equal (if not  superior) in crafting a fantasy epic: Tad Williams. His &quot;Memory,  Sorrow, and Thorn&quot; trilogy never misses a step. And the best part?  It's finished!	2000-08-15
US	49899711	R2519JZQ1BUCQR	0395798671	352408002	Personality Types: Using the Enneagram for Self-Discovery	Books	4	199	206	N	N	Good, but use it wisely	The main purpose of this book is to type yourself in order that you should know how to become a fully integrated individual. Understanding of the self is one step to self-discovery, but the next step, as the book illustrates,  is to move toward one's 'point of integration', to attain one's full  potential. To that end 'Character Types' has been heaven-sent for me. It  becomes painfully clear that left to ourselves, we attempt to improve in  the way which is exactly the opposite of what we really need. As a Four, I  was constantly introspecting and obsessing, certain that if I did so long  enough I would understand everything. Not until I read this book did I  understand that the only way to improve would be to fight my natural  tendencies, to become more open to experiencing and to take things easier.  This insight, though it sounds small, leaves me indebted to Don Riso for  writing a book which was as effective as any 12-step program, and which  will be applicable for the rest of my life in setting goals to strive  towards.<br />On the other hand, this book should come with some disclaimers.  The first is that this book should not be used in rigidly 'typing' other  individuals besides yourself. The fact is, no one can ever presume to know  what goes on inside another human being, and that natural barrier should be  respected. Even if someone exhibits all the signs of a certain type, they  should still be respected as the complex people they are, instead of being  consigned to a filing cabinet. For people to start saying, &quot;Oh, he's  such a typical Five, always reading&quot; is ridiculous, even degrading.  For a basic understanding of the many facets of human nature, reading about  the other types is fascinating--but that's as far as these descriptions  should be taken to apply to real-life individuals and  relationships.<br />Also, people should take the type descriptions with a  grain of salt. The book is sometimes too specific--these types should be  used todescribe general tendencies, not specific details within the  personality. Just because I am a certain type, that does not mean I cannot  be radically different from others who share my type. The world is a  wonderfully complex place, and people are the most complex things in it.  Sharing some similarities *does not* make us the same.<br />The parental  orientations, while interesting to read and perhaps even relevant  sometimes, are the equivalent to psychobabble on some level and should also  be taken with a grain of salt. The typing of celebrities is completely  irrelevant, for reasons already expressed above.<br />Taken all in all,  'Character Types' is a valuable tool toward attaining self-discovery and  understanding the means to attain one's full potential. The levels of  development are charted at length, and the points of integration and  disintegration highlight the manner in which people deteriorate, or more  positively, the way they achieve health and integration. It also provides  insight into people other than yourself, making it possible to appreciate  the differences in each human being. For a book on the Enneagram, look no  further than this.	2000-06-21
US	49899711	R3VKM6ZEM3K0QL	0553288202	47311872	The Fall of Hyperion	Books	4	44	51	N	N	A multilayered epic	'Fall of Hyperion' follows the style of an epic which can be read on many levels. It is an analysis of John Keats's poetry, the relationship of God and Man, whether there is a God at all, and the purpose of human suffering  all at once--and this to name just a few. I do not think it should be  judged in comparison with the first book, as they are both extremely  different in structure. 'Hyperion' is a tight novel centering on the past  lives of the pilgrims, while 'Fall of Hyperion' is an intricately woven  tapestry much akin to epics such as 'Dune'. Both are ingenious in their  respective approaches to theme and character.   <br />The new character  viewpoints, Severn and Paul Dure, are well-developed, and Meina Gladstone  is a tragic gem of characterization. The other characters undergo trials  that stretch them to the limits, and lend a glimpse into the fragility of  humankind. My only complaint is Kassad, who never feels real, though the  author obviously admires him very much. His relationship with Moneta was a  disappointment to me, as it never developed beyond sex, yet is referred to  as 'love'. I didn't see it, and therefore didn't buy it.  <br />'Fall'  contains the same trauma and horror from 'Hyperion', on a deeper and larger  scale, making some scenes intensely painful to read. But with the pain  comes a massive wellspring of emotion which, though still painful, is  ultimately a pain which shapes and refines. Simmons is unafraid to go where  other authors dare not, and for that he is deserving of praise. The action  is such that there is never a slow moment, and the surprises are endless.  Without question, Simmons knows how to weave a story.<br />The multiple themes  running through this book are difficult to follow. Somehow Simmons meant to  tie the poetry of John Keats with questions relating to the nature of God  and humanity, but this is done with such complicated strokes that the book  probably needs to be re-read many times to be fully appreciated. I for one  developed an interest in Keats as a result of reading this book--not to  mention an affection for 'Mister John Keats, five feet high'.	2000-06-21
US	49899711	R374NTERMYN59L	0886775981	551793199	To Green Angel Tower, Part 1 (Memory, Sorrow, and Thorn, Book 3)	Books	5	35	39	N	N	The absolute best	One thing can definitely be said for Tad Williams: in comparison to other fantasy writers, who start big and then peter out, his writing improves in leaps and bounds with each passing work. All the threads he wove together  so cleverly, beginning with 'The Dragonbone Chair' and continuing in 'Stone  of Farewell', are revealed to their fullest extent in this majestic  conclusion. Typical fantasy this is not. Throw your predictions out the  window when you read this series--Tad knows cliches when he sees them, and  avoids them masterfully until the very end. <br />Toward the end, the story  begins to take on the quality of a lush piece of music: marching in  ever-twining threads which like strains of melody, spiral upward,  constantly adding new threads of power and beauty whenever the tune starts  to become familiar. There are moments so moving that they are transcendant,  and so imaginative that one is tempted to predict that this is an epic that  will last after many others have faded with the years.<br />The characters  only get better, Simon in particular, who literally goes to hell and back.  Tad Williams does not put his hero to minor tests and allow him to earn his  status as the hero with the swing of a sword; rather, like Winston  Churchill, he demands &quot;blood and toil, tears and sweat&quot; in  relentless profusion. Yet rather than being an orgy in pain and suffering,  the story is uplifting in its depiction of boy who begins as 'ordinary',  and in overcoming tremendous suffering and tests of courage, becomes a hero  worthy of the name.<br />There are some drawbacks to this otherwise perfect  book. For one thing, Tad Williams is lacking in his portrayal of women,  primarily Miriamele and Vorzheva. The latter is constantly whining and  irredeemably selfish--it's difficult to understand how a great guy like  Josua got stuck with her, let alone risked his life for her sake. The fact  that the author is obviously in love with her does not make liking her any  easier.<br />Miriamele is well-realized character, but toward the end she  becomes sulky, and the problems that exist in her relationship with Simon  are never resolved, let alone discussed, since any such discussion  deteriorates into cuddling. This makes the abrupt resolution of their  relationship at the end hard to swallow--so they slept together. Maybe  it'll put off their problems for a night--but what about the rest of their  lives?<br />I also thought that some very dramatic events at the end should  not have been narrated by Tiamak after the fact--it took away any sense of  immediacy, and belittled the importance of Cadrach's wrenching  sacrifice.<br />Other than that, though, what is there to say? This is an epic  that actually lives up to its length and delivers. The author obviously  knew where he was going from page one, and his intent drives the story home  by the end with stunning power. Not by any means a light read--but deep and  immensely satisfying.	2000-06-16
US	49899711	R2CX2R3QQ8JD9B	0553280414	586746552	A Separate Peace	Books	5	200	213	N	N	Enter the darkness	In this darkly beautiful novel, John Knowles takes the reader on a journey, and it is no ordinary journey. 'A Separate Peace' plumbs the remote depths of the human heart--and it will take courage to face what is  there.<br />This is, first and foremost, a character story. Gene and Finny are  central to the plot, and to this end the author develops the characters  with piercing clarity. Finny's genuineness sets him apart from his peers,  Gene included, who tend to act more in accordance with the way they think  would be acceptable to others, instead of what is acceptable to themselves.  Finny follows his heart in all his ways, and his achievements are a  reflection of his love for life. In contrast, Gene is repressed, his  achievements based on what others believe to be important. As a result,  they are of no importance to him, because he sees himself to be lacking  that unique, genuine quality.<br />The friendship which develops between Gene  and Finny is beautifully drawn, woven with skill into the mundanity of  everyday existence. The tragic turn it takes sends the rest of the plot,  though outwardly inocuous, hurtling toward disaster and a darkness beyond  imagining. 'A Separate Peace' explores the evil in the human heart, using  this tale of betrayal as a parallel to the war raging in the world at the  same time. While this may invite comparison with 'Lord of the Flies', they  are in fact extremely different. 'Lord of the Flies' contends that humans  are evil by nature. In 'A Separate Peace', humanity is shown to have a dark  side, the cause of tremendous horror and suffering. And yet, there is hope  offered in this book for humanity. Evil is not the be-all and end-all of  our existence. For even as Gene must confront the evil within himself, a  light shines through: the genuine love he has for his friend. Which is why  Finny wept at the end of the book--not for himself, but for the betrayal of  that loyalty and love which he had always known existed.<br />Thisonly  scratches the surface of the depth to be found in this masterpiece.  However, I don't recommend over-analyzing the metaphors and similies and  whatnot. I read this book without a class or a teacher, did not learn the  significance of the metaphors, and probably for this reason more than  anything else, loved the book. For the teachers who disparage the book as  'too boring'--perhaps if you would try to see the book as something more  than an exercise in metaphors, both you and your students would benefit.  The true power of this book lies in its clear rendering of the immensity  and the frailty of human nature, the many shadings of light and dark which  together create a human being. In the author's own words, this book  penetrates to &quot;that level of feeling, deeper than thought, which  contains the truth.&quot;	2000-06-13
US	49899711	R2ZCFYF34CJI4C	0553283685	47311872	Hyperion (Hyperion Cantos)	Books	4	495	545	N	N	Disturbing and deeply moving	Though 'Hyperion' is dependent upon its sequel and ends with a tooth-grinding cliff-hanger, it is in its way self-contained. 'Hyperion' is centered on the six pilgrims' tales, their pasts, the terrible needs which  drive them to confront what is almost certain death--or worse. Each of the  tales is written in a unique style, and each introduces a new element to  bind the story as a whole. All are wrenching, even disturbing in their  intensity, in their focus on the deepest possible of human suffering.<br />Do  not read this book if you're looking for a light, fun read. In fact, forget  it. This book defies all expectations, serves up horrors that were hitherto  unimaginable if you are even remotely sane. Dan Simmons is in this book  exploring a world that has lost its soul and is decaying by inches. To  underscore that decay, the tales focus on the underpinnings of  humanity--death, love, parenthood, art--and twist them into the most  horrific contortions possible. The tale of the cruciform, for example,  investigates with terrifying clarity the possibility of there being a fate  far, far worse than death.<br />As a result, the quest of each pilgrim has a  greater significance than being merely a quest; in the empty world which  Simmons creates, they are pioneers searching for a depth beyond the tested  parameters of their rotting civilization. The atmosphere of the book is  overshadowed by the horror of the Shrike, yet does not completely dim the  hope of what might be.<br />Steeped in the tangled sorrows that drive them,  the characters do not always engender sympathy. I found Kassad shallow and  difficult to relate to, and the explicit sex a turn-off. However, Martin  Silenus, Sol Weintaub and the Consul--to name a few--are fully realized,  complex characters, and even at their worst moments, still by their very  existence encourage the reader to keep reading simply to learn their fates.	2000-06-12
US	49899711	R4QIS6WD31QQ6	0064407055	505341703	Ella Enchanted (Trophy Newbery)	Books	4	64	76	N	N	It was true love for me	Rarely does one find a children's book that is as potentially appealing to adults as it is to children. 'Ella Enchanted' kept me up at night till the wee hours of the morning--I wanted to see what would happen! <br />The  first-person narrative is immediately endearing, capturing the personality  of the main character in just a few lines. All the major characters are  drawn and handled with care. My personal favorite was Ella's father--so  heartless, yet so likable at the same time. Such a complex character rarely  makes an appearance even in adult fiction. <br />The romance between Ella and  Char made me laugh and sigh by turns. While a deep romance featuring a  fifteen-year-old girl is not exactly believable, if one succeeds in  suspending disbelief there is a beautiful depiction of the relationship,  yet without ever becoming overdone or sappy.<br />I also liked the way Levine  draws on elements from the original fairy tale while giving them a new  twist--such as the obedience spell. <br />The only problem I had with this  book were the occasional logical gaps that detracted somewhat from the  plot's believability. Yet this is a minor detail, and one that I would  probably not have noticed at age nine--which is, after all, the ideal age  to read this book. But a teenager or an adult who is interested in fairy  tale re-tellings should enjoy this hilarious new spin on 'Cinderella'.	2000-06-11
US	49899711	R1QZ4EFH0F5QY	0451457765	446908784	Tigana: Anniversary Edition	Books	5	173	190	N	N	Was a blade in my soul	I was hesitant to review this book, because I'm not sure I can do it justice. This is one of those stories in which the very extremes of human emotion can tear the reader apart. And no one does it like Guy Gavriel Kay.   <br />The ideas are revolutionary in a genre whose readers normally subsist  on casual magic and Sword &amp; Sorcery. Themes of memory, identity,  destiny and freedom are seamlessly interwoven in a breathtaking tapestry;  identity can only be founded on the recovery of memory, and it is only with  a sense of identity that one can attain the freedom to fulfill one's  destiny. 'Tigana' features characters who have had their identities  brutally torn from them, and the result is that they are left empty and  searching for a way to fill the void in their souls. Their desperate  attempts sometimes lead them in the wrong directions, toward things which  are cruel or unnatural, but provide temporary solace from the emptiness.  The tragedy of their existence is especially wrenching in Kay's portrayal  of love, as he shows that it cannot exist as long as there is no sense of  identity, and hence, no freedom. Without these things, it is only a selfish  grasping for rescue from emptiness, turning the act of love into a  degradation.<br />Kay's portrayal of the characters is one of the high points  of this book's brilliance. Who is the enemy? This is a question difficult  to answer in a book which has characters on the 'good' side committing  terrible acts, while the designated 'enemy' is a wonderfully complex  character; and the fact that Brandin inspires such loyalty in his  followers--and such love in Dianora, who had sworn to kill him--is totally  justifiable, and may be shared by the reader. On the other hand, the  soul-deep pain for which he is responsible--and for which he has no  remorse--makes a strong case against him. There are no evil people or good  people in this book: there are only evil actions, bringing this book into a  realm of 'grayness' inits approach to good and evil which most fantasy  avoids.<br />In addition to his skill in characterization, Kay knows how to  plumb the very depths of human emotion, yet somehow without once lapsing  into melodrama. All the extremes of pain and suffering are there, as well  as the extremes of love and tenderness. And there is no better vehicle for  these powerful emotions than Kay's gorgeous writing.<br />The ending fit  perfectly with the rest of the story, tying together the themes of identity  and destiny which the riselka had come to symbolize all along. Like a  graceful end note to a piece of music, the last lines rounded it off and  trailed away, softly.<br />For anyone who enjoys an unconventional fantasy  with ambivalent characters, this is a must-read. Fans of George R.R. Martin  should have no trouble with this aspect of the work. It is also recommended  to anyone who wants some depth and power in their reading fare, regardless  of the genre.	2000-06-05
US	49899711	R2OT7TF7DD3HY	0886774802	931140449	Stone of Farewell (Memory, Sorrow, and Thorn, Book 2)	Books	4	7	8	N	N	....And better yet	The action really picks up here. What with siege of Naglimund, and the adventures that follow, Tad Williams proves his ability as a master of plot development. The writing becomes more evocative with every passing scene  and description, and as a result, more terrifying. The power of language is  utilized to the fullest extent to breathe life into nightmare. Few other  writers have the courage to plunge into blackest despair as Tad Williams  does here; and one cannot help but imagine that it is hopeless, that all is  lost. Evil is no longer a bed-time story, but a full-blooded, horrifying  reality. There is no respite, no sugar-coating of the consequences.  Although the author truly cares for his characters, he gives them no  quarter in escaping from suffering.<br />As to the characters themselves--now  they have started to truly develop and grow, in the readers' hearts as well  as on paper. Simon is growing up the hardest way imaginable, by being  forced to deal with the harshest realities possible. Josua is a wonderful  character, a leader whose last desire is to lead. One of my favorite scenes  in this book is his wonderfully choreographed sword-fight in the  Thrithings. Maegwin takes a strange turn, and Miriamele is tested to her  limits. The only drawback to this book are the segments with Tiamak, which  are rather dull and easily skipped or skimmed.<br />No hope is extended here  for how the conflict will end--the atmosphere of hopeless despair is  staggering. The reader's only assurance is that surely something good must  be coming, else why would there be another two books following? For those  who think this series has possibilities at this point, all I can is, you  ain't seen nothin' yet. Stay tuned.	2000-06-02
US	49899711	R19L1TTZ8Z0MV1	0399501487	502818647	Lord of the Flies	Books	2	21	31	N	N	One-dimensional	First of all, I will admit to a profound distaste for heavy-handed symbolism, and since this book is nothing but--well, profound distaste on my part was inevitable. Personally, by the time I've finished analyzing how  Piggy's glasses symbolize human reason, the pig's head represents human  evil, etc., the book has lost its impact for me and becomes  pretentious.<br />But that is not my main problem with this book. I find it  frightening that so many people consider this book 'revealing' and a  'classic'. This seems to indicate that the message of this book has  universal relevance for people. And this message is as follows: Humankind,  homo sapiens, people as we know them, are intrinsically evil. Meaning, that  deep down in our hearts we are nothing but wells of corrupt blackness, or  as Conrad so aptly put it, hearts 'of darkness'. Anything good we do is a  sham. We act a certain way only because civilization dictates it, but as  soon as the rules of civilization no longer get us what we want, or they  are no longer imposed on us, our natural tendency will be to fall into  evil, our true, innermost nature.<br />Garbage. I for one do not believe that  human beings are intrinsically evil. Are they intrinsically good, then? Of  course not. I am not advocating a world view based on naivete. Human beings  have a natural tendency for both good and for evil. How much these  tendencies influence a person's behavior is entirely up to him: he is not  wholly at the mercy of his baser instincts. Even in 'Heart of Darkness',  upon which Golding based this work, Marlowe faced the evil and did not  succumb to it. These boys are given no choice, as evil is the only true  reality. There is no way to fight it; one can either surrender to it, or  run from it by way of civilization. To take an active stand against it is  impossible.<br />Even in 'Les Miserables' during the horrendous poverty and  the barricades, where all of civilization is crumbling at its foundations  and people are rotting because of it, there are glimpses into the beauty of  humankind. Eponine, though sunk in squalor and darkness, finds redemption  by saving Marius; this in contrast to her father, whose evil increases all  the more. Jean Valjean sinks to the lowest level a human can sink to, yet  there is hope for him; and because one person had faith in the good that  was inside him, he, too found redemption. There is choice involved, and one  can either strive for light, or fall into darkness. Maybe people like  Golding because he unintentionally grants justification for the evil Man is  capable of--after all, we can't help it. It's our nature. Therefore people  need not bother to strive to become better than they are, to actualize the  beauty within themselves. Humans have no inner beauty; it is imposed from  outside to conceal the horror within.<br />But there is more. And by not  realizing that there is more, Golding sells everyone short.are rotting because of it, there are glimpses into the beauty of  humankind. Eponine, though sunk in squalor and darkness, finds redemption  by saving Marius; this in contrast to her father, whose evil increases all  the more. Jean Valjean sinks to the lowest level a human can sink to, yet  there is hope for him; and because one person had faith in the good that  was inside him, he, too found redemption. There is choice involved, and one  can either strive for light, or fall into darkness. Maybe people like  Golding because he unintentionally grants justification for the evil Man is  capable of--after all, we can't help it. It's our nature. Therefore people  need not bother to strive to become better than they are, to actualize the  beauty within themselves. Humans have no inner beauty; it is imposed from  outside to conceal the horror within.<br />But there is more. And by not  realizing that there is more, Golding sells everyone short.	2000-06-02
US	49899711	RBHMAR6WF2FZK	0809900033	483496444	The Dragonbone Chair (Memory, Sorrow, and Thorn Book 1)	Books	4	7	9	N	N	It gets better. Honest.	I've heard the common complaint that this book is hard to get into. I can sympathize, since when I first began this book I thought the friend who had given it to me was crazy. Simon seemed dull, Morgenes freaky, the writing  was dense and plodded somewhat. But my friend assured me that it would get  better, so I persevered.<br />Wow--to say it was worth it would be an  understatement. As soon as Simon gets to the caverns beneath the Hayholt,  Tad Williams's brilliant prose begins to show itself. The atmosphere is  intense, distinctly foreign--unlike most fantasy authors, whose worlds reek  of formula, Tad Williams has created a world all his own. Osten Ard is  replete with mystery, legends, and cultures that have no parallel in any  other work of fantasy. True: Tad Williams borrows from other cultures, but  they are cultures very seldom used in a fantasy; for example, the Sithi  culture borrows elements from the Japanese, creating a race as unlike the  immortal elves of Tolkien as you can possibly get. The Hayholt is the  central masterpiece, its subtle mysteries more enticing than any sword  &amp; sorcery magic. <br />The languages and cultures of Osten Ard are  developed in such fine detail that every race and nation has its own code,  which translates into the way they behave, feel and think. This kind of  differentiation among fictional characters is fiendishly hard to do, and is  masterfully pulled off here.<br />Simon, though a 'mooncalf', quickly becomes  an endearing character, and Binabik gives a whole new meaning to the word  'troll'. There is also a philosophical air to the work at times, as if Tad  Williams was truly 'writing to understand', yet never to the point that it  becomes preachy.<br />If you love fantasy, go for it! It really does get  better. And the best is yet to come.	2000-06-02
US	49899711	R37WQTVMWKONBX	0312853238	401439625	Ender's Game (The Ender Quintet)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	From beginning to end--brilliant!	I am not a fan of science fiction. I read the occasional sci-fi book, and it is usually one that is potentially meaningful to a reader outside the genre.<br />'Ender's Game' is one such a novel. On every level, intellectual  and emotional, it grabs you and doesn't let go. It combines brilliant  concepts, such as the battle-room and the 'Speaker for the Dead', with  emotional depth and intensity. Ender is one of the most memorable  characters in science fiction, right up there with Paul Atreides. The  struggles of this innocent child to remain human and at the same time  become a hardened killing-machine are heart-rending to watch, summoning  tears many a time. All the children who are heroes--Bean, Petra, Alai--are  admirable yet at the same time pitiable, sacrificing the innocence of their  childhood on the altar of civilization. One can cheer them on yet at the  same time grieve, that they had to lose so much in exchange for what they  gained. <br />The plot is fast-paced and always surprising; there's no putting  the book down until it's over. The ending was puzzling to me the first time  I read the book, but now I see it as a vindication of Ender as a human  being, as opposed to a cold killer. His role is reversed from killer to  life-giver, and he is able to reclaim the humanity he has desired for so  long.<br />Ender's own dual identity, the battle-room commander who still  misses his older sister Valentine, is portrayed flawlessly. His joy becomes  the reader's joy, and his suffering the reader's suffering. That is the  true greatness of this book.	2000-06-01
US	49899711	R259SBVO4CNUCO	0140386645	374123609	The Westing Game	Books	5	253	272	N	N	The years pass, and still a must-read	'The Westing Game' was my favorite book as a pre-teen, so when I returned to it years later, my expectations were low. Was I wrong! This book might be accessible to younger readers, but no one who loves a mystery with incredible characters should miss this for the world.<br />While the plot centers around a less than run-of-the-mill whodunit, the book mainly focuses on the characters: each unique, bizarre, and ultimately endearing.  The author manages to make them quirky without making them caricatures. The developing relationships between the 'heirs' as they attempt to unravel the mystery, is, I think, far more important than the mystery itself; they also develop in their sense of identity. These are all themes any adult can appreciate, woven into the story with humor and sly understatement, yet in effect deeply moving.<br />The plot is complex and suspenseful, layered so impenetrably that at least one surprise at the end is inevitable. Yet even when wrapped in the most logical of puzzles, the author never loses the human touch. There are many scenes portrayed with hilarious, touching absurdity; and Raskin is dead-on with her take on human nature, even when her depiction seems exaggerated.<br />Read it for a good chuckle--but in the end it may be more than that.	2000-05-30
US	49899711	RHT0QNY0UI7Z8	0688062334	458436371	Howl's Moving Castle	Books	4	2	7	N	N	I laugh just thinking about it	No matter your age, this book is a gem. Not only is it completely hilarious, but the characters are some of the most full-fleshed and wonderful to make an appearance in ANY genre of literature. Sophie is  strong and prematurely cantankerous, Howl is dizzyingly unpredictable, and  Calcifer has more personality than one would ever expect from a fire demon.  And to top it off, the book takes place in multiple worlds, from the realm  of fairy tales to our own, and handles each one with verve and subtle wit.  Jones's style of writing is appealing to both the younger and the older set  of readers alike, and both will take something different from the  experience.    <br />Admittedly, the plot is sometimes impossible to follow. A  common trait of Diana Wynne Jones's writing is her tendency to assume that  the reader understands what she is trying to say, when in fact the reader  hasn't a clue. <br />Nonetheless, this book is packed with magic, humor, and  loveable characters. What more can a reader of fantasy ask for?	2000-05-28
US	49899711	RVBBBKO28NDDE	0316770620	180502992	The Twelve Dancing Princesses	Books	5	12	12	N	N	A tale retold--and redrawn	Ruth Sanderson's 'Twelve Dancing Princesses' is a fresh, deftly written take on the original fairy tale. The characters come alive, and the writing captures the childlike innocence of a fairy-tale world without being  saccharine. However, what really makes this book stand out are the gorgeous  illustrations. Sanderson's sumptuous oil paintings enrich the tale, and are  works of art in their own right. Even without words, she knows how to  create an atmosphere of mystery and of magic.	2000-05-25
US	49899711	R3183WY6VSZ57J	0140089225	354380790	The Bone People: A Novel	Books	3	46	51	N	N	A lot of potential....	I gave this book three stars because I would give the first two-thirds five stars and the last third one star. Since I'm not sure how all this totals up (math being my worst subject), I'm just going to rate it at  three, which seems fair enough.  <br />The writing is fascinating, first of  all: pure stream-of-consciousness with some added leaps of imagination. At  first I wasn't sure about it, but following Hulme's advice in her  introduction I persisted, and it was indeed like kina roe--it grew on me.  Sometimes it is surreal, dreamlike; at other times earthy, even brutal.  This jarring contrast is one of the qualities that makes the rhythm and  flow of the writing so distinctive. <br />Then there are the characters:  Kerewin, Joe, and Simon a.k.a. Clare a.k.a. Haimona are some of the most  memorable I've ever read about. The ropes of twisted and tormented emotions  which eventually bind them are conveyed with an insight into love as a  thing which is multi-dimensional past reasoning. Their inner voices and  heart's desires are portrayed with poignant subtlety, running together with  the silent music of Hulme's prose.<br />The book is disturbing in its way, and  often cruel, while at other times gently lyrical. Yet the two do not  contradict: Hulme is portraying life's ugliest possibilities along with the  most beautiful and uplifting. Together with the style of writing, this odd  juxtaposition somehow works, and works well.<br />So what was my problem? To  me, at least, the last third of the book had no connection to the rest. At  a certain point events are suddenly rushed in a manner which is too  contrived to be believable; it then goes a step further by suddenly  introducing the reader to Maori mysticism and placing it as the central  element of the work. Now, I don't mind Maori mysticism as long as the  author doesn't introduce it all of a sudden at the end as a plot device.  That this was all somehow a plot of the divine powers-that-be did no  justice to thevery human characters and emotions which had hitherto been  the driving force of the story. The kamatua, his stories and his dreams  seemed like the author was taking a very unrealistic easy way out rather  than introducing more depth. The kamatua himself is no more than a plot  device, rather than a full-fleshed character; his death meant less than  nothing to me, and the discovery of the idol even less than that. It's as  if all the vital threads which held the story together were suddenly  snapped, to be replaced by a foreign element which had nothing to do with  matters at hand. The three characters I had come to care about so much were  left hanging--and ultimately, they petered out.<br /> I would recommend this  book to anyone who enjoys an original, thoughtful read--with the  stipulation that the ending is disappointing. The book should be read for  the experience, regardless of its destination.	2000-05-24
