US	49903185	R1TUTG6LDGT8M1	0740738100	62028195	Reality Check: A For Better or For Worse Collection	Books	3	7	34	N	N	Keeping it real--well, sort of, anyway	Despite a brief period of being considered a cutting-edge cartoonist (with the infamous \\"Laurence is gay\\" story line), at heart Lynn Johnston likes things neat, tidy and relatively conservative.  \\"Reality Check,\\" the latest \\"For Better Or For Worse\\" collection, continues that tradition.<br />The main focus of the book is the gestation and arrival of the first member of the next generation of Pattersons, Michael and Deanna's daughter Meredith.  Anyone with any semblance of intelligence will immediately roll their eyes when reading the initial strips where Deanna informs Michael that she's pregnant, claiming that \\"I wanted to change medications and wait for the first one to leave my system, and ... it just happened.\\"  It's bad enough that this kind of \\"oops\\" is seemingly acceptable, but considering that Johnston has Deanna's profession as a PHARMACIST who (one would think) knows how birth control pills should work makes it that much more unbelievable.  Johnston has often stated that her strips reflect either what is going on in her life or what she wants to happen--the arrival of April is a prime example of the latter--and apparently she has a screaming case of grandbaby rabies.  Of course, after a token protest or two Michael and Deanna fall in love with parenthood, and everyone is delighted despite the fact the couple is portrayed as having major financial problems.  But in Johnston's world, everything always works out for the best, because a baby always fixes everything, right?<br />As for the Patterson daughters, idealistic Elizabeth gets her heart stomped on by her latest boyfriend--Johnston has the pair living together but ostensibly sleeping in separate bedrooms--while bratty April becomes more obnoxious and spends all her strips whining (at least that's somewhat realistic of today's kids).  There is a neat little plot with Grandpa Jim's unexpected marriage, but Johnston still spends a few too many strips dealing with various Patterson animals, including the protracted death of April's rabbit, at the expense of John and Elly.  Johnston isn't always sugary, but sometimes she misses great opportunities to be real and goes for the schmaltz.  \\"Reality Check\\" is best suited for those who followed Deanna's pregnancy and Meredith's birth with baited breath (not to mention those who--yes, it's true--sent congratulatory e-mails to these fictional characters).	2003-10-26
US	49903185	R30YQNNUD88IRD	0060929898	864272469	Death Be Not Proud (Perennial Classics)	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Still resonates fifty years later	It's the rare person who wasn't assigned \\"Death Be Not Proud\\" in school, but it's a book that seems to turn up quite often in people's collections.  It's funny to read the rather scathing reviews from teenagers who mock it ...because they seem to forget that this book was originally published in the late 1940s when books like this were practically unknown.  John Gunther had originally written this for private circulation, but was prevailed upon to publish it so that others who had lost a child might gain strength.<br />It's obvious from the first page that Johnny Gunther was loved as only a cherished only son could be.  He was quite possibly a math and science prodigy and seemed to be destined for great things when the brain tumor first emerged, the tumor that would fluctuate, nearly disappear, and then come back to kill him in the space of fifteen months.  While reading the book, it struck me that Johnny seemed to be more concerned about how his illness affected his parents than how it affected him--not surprising, considering that John and Frances Gunther were divorced and had been since Johnny was small, quite unusual at that time among upper-middle-class families.  It was also refreshing that the mention of God and religion were practically avoided--Johnny describes himself a few times as an atheist; the prayer that he wrote that is so frequently cited is actually called \\"The Unbeliever's Prayer.\\"  One has to wonder if the near-canonization of Johnny by his father is an exorcism of the guilt Gunther had as a divorced father whose constant travels distanced him from his son.  It's apparent, particularly in Johnny's letters, that Johnny was much closer to his mother than his father.<br />I've always found Johnny's letters to be the most interesting section of \\"Death Be Not Proud.\\"  If he had lived today, he'd undoubtedly be a massive computer nerd!  He displayed a lot of the characteristics of the spoiled only child of divorced parents, but at the same time he acknowledged that he knew this and displayed a good sense of humor about it.  Even fifty-six years later, his good nature shines through, making the \\"what if\\" question even more poignant.  Death, indeed, should not be proud that it took Johnny Gunther at the age of seventeen, but we should all commend John Gunther for giving us a glimpse into a young, brilliant life.	2003-03-23
US	49903185	R2Z07J0JAUP4TD	0345435273	192644371	A Caress of Twilight (Meredith Gentry, Book 2)	Books	2	19	34	N	N	Maybe I'm too much of a realist ...	I'll be the first to admit that I'm not a big fantasy fan, but I appreciate a well-written novel no matter what its genre may be.  Laurell K. Hamilton is one of the few fantasy authors that non-fantasy enthusiasts can read without being too weirded out, but \\"A Caress Of Twilight\\" is definitely not her strongest work.<br />\\"Caress\\" continues the saga of Meredith Gentry, a/k/a NicEssus, a L.A. private detective who happens to be a faerie princess and heir to the Unseelie throne.  She is competing with her cousin Prince Cel to inherit this throne--whoever is the first to have a child wins.  To help her along with this quest, she essentially has five live-in lovers (actually, she starts out with three, and the other two are added along the way).  Meredith spends the vast majority of the book either having sex with other fey creatures, trying to get out of having sex with other fey creatures, or arguing with other monarchs in the fey world on various points of faerie protocol, continuously reminding them that despite her mixed blood (apparently she's part human and brownie in addition to faerie) she is an heir to a throne.  There's a minor murder mystery thrown in, not to mention some encounters with an exiled faerie goddess who exists in L.A. as--surprise!--a movie star.<br />As with her Anita Blake novels, Hamilton strives for a seamless blend of the real world and the supernatural here, but does not totally succeed.  \\"Caress\\" does not flow very well, which has also been a problem in Hamilton's later AB novels.  A lot of talking is done, but it doesn't move the plot along.  Meredith's lovers/bodyguards, at least looks-wise, are straight out of Zebra Medieval Romance 101.  In short, nothing really happens--until the end. Hamilton seems to have a fixation with biting and bloodletting, which of course is suitable for the Anita Blake series (Anita IS a vampire hunter after all) but is borderline disturbing here.  Then again, change the faeries and goblins to vampires and werewolves, and you have ... an Anita Blake novel.  And, on a personal-peevish note, why does every fictional supernatural creature that comes to walk amongst the humans ALWAYS seem to be a private detective?  What, they have no other job skills?<br />A newcomer to Hamilton would do well to avoid \\"A Caress Of Twilight,\\" particularly if he/she is not a regular fantasy reader--go with an early Anita Blake book such as \\"Bloody Bones.\\"  There is potential here, and if Hamilton would let up on the sex and biting and politics and concentrate on the story, it would be great potential.	2002-09-01
US	49903185	R204AXFUE9T5O8	0609609068	655288241	The Book of Eleanor	Books	2	31	32	N	N	An ambitious project badly executed	It is noted on the endpapers that it took Pamela Kaufman fifteen years to reasearch and complete &quot;The Book of Eleanor.&quot;  Judging by the book I read, the manuscript must have spent fourteen and a half of those years in a drawer someplace.<br />Eleanor of Aquitaine has always been an attractive subject for those interested in medieval history--in a time when women counted only as brood mares, she managed to gain enormous power not only as the wife to two kings and mother to two more, but as duchess of Aquitaine and countess of Poitou in her own right.  When her story is presented well (and, like other reviewers, I will also cite Sharon Kay Penman's novels as examples), she is trememdously fascinating.  In the hands of Pamela Kaufman, however, she is a shrill, imperious self-centered harpy.  If that wasn't bad enough, Kaufman throws in a completely--and admittedly--fictional love affair between Eleanor and her Aquitanian captain and asks the reader to believe that this man fathered three of Eleanor's children, including the future Richard Lionheart.  Also, Kaufman's Eleanor is dragged kicking and screaming into her second marriage to Henry of England, while history strongly indicates Eleanor wanted the marriage and probably had a hand in arranging it.  Add in other enormous historical liberties and just plain bad writing (Kaufman is inordinately fond of exclamation points and crudity for crudity's sake) and you have what could have been a very original novel become an exercise in tedium.  There are many excellent books, both fiction and non-fiction, about Eleanor of Aquitaine.  &quot;The Book of Eleanor&quot; is not one of them.	2002-08-25
US	49903185	R364RQ28PQSGML	0440235391	322161447	Darkest Fear: A Novel (Myron Bolitar Mysteries)	Books	2	9	14	N	N	A Robert Crais wanna-be	The problem with any series is that eventually the author's going to churn out a couple of duds.  Such is the case with Harlan Coben's Myron Bolitar series, of which &quot;Darkest Fear&quot; is the most recent volume.  Coben wisely decided to give Myron a rest after this one.  &quot;Darkest Fear&quot; can't quite decide whether it wants to be a manifesto on serial killers or the importance of a bank of bone marrow donors.  And let's not forget the whole father/son thing; Myron seems to have a genuine gift for suppressing memories, considering all the predicaments that keep cropping up as a result of his past actions about which he's obstensibly forgotten.  The result is a labyrinthine and ultimately uninteresting plot.  Coben seems to have taken a page out of Robert Crais' book and made Myron an incurable smartass, but, unlike Crais' creation Elvis Cole, Myron never seems to know when to turn it off.  When he's not spouting off one-liners, Myron can be sickeningly earnest, which is shown to wincing disadvantage here.  Coben's earlier Bolitar novels are written with a much lighter hand and thus make for better reading (try &quot;Backspin&quot;, which does have some great one-liners), but &quot;Darkest Fear&quot; shows a character in need of some major refreshment.	2002-06-24
US	49903185	R3MMYELP8GYD5Q	0064400409	676555907	The Little House (9 Volumes Set)	Books	5	16	17	N	N	Before there was Harry Potter ...	If memory serves me correctly, I discovered Laura Ingalls Wilder's \\"Little House\\" books around the age of seven.  I do remember being the envy of my third-grade classmates when I received the entire boxed set AND \\"On The Way Home\\" for Christmas.  Of course, newer generations only know Laura from the TV series, which, as an earlier reviewer remarked, was the epitome of schmalzy, rose-glassed views of pioneer life, but interestingly enough included some real incidents Laura never put in the books (the death of the baby brother and living in the hotel).  The books, however, still stand the test of time.  True, some of the harsher elements of frontier life are glossed over to an extent--these are books aimed at kids, after all--but overall the books are an fascinating study of life on the prairie in the post-Civil War years.  Much like Harry Potter, the Little House books can be read and enjoyed by adults.  My only quibble with the books is that I've always felt that there should have been another book between \\"On The Banks of Plum Creek\\" and \\"On The Shores of Silver Lake,\\" since there's a jump of about five years between the two.  According to some of Laura's biographers, however, Laura's family had some rough experiences during that time, so that might explain the lack.  <br />Still, there's a reason these books are classics--the descriptions are top-notch, they're moralistic without smacking you over the head, and they're just plain fun to read.  I still have the boxed set (not the same one I got for Christmas, alas), and on snowy days in my own little house I find myself curled up in front of the fire with \\"Farmer Boy\\" or \\"These Happy Golden Years.\\"  Enjoy!	2002-06-23
US	49903185	R3AMF8J6WZB2XS	0312265859	52382288	Hard Eight (Stephanie Plum)	Books	3	1	3	N	N	Janet Evanovich is back on track ... well, mostly, anyway	Stephanie Plum, Trenton, NJ's most incompetent bounty hunter, returns in \\"Hard Eight,\\" Janet Evanovich's latest volume chronicling her (mis)adventures.  Thankfully, it's much better than \\"Hot Six\\" and \\"Seven Up\\"--there's no annoying Joyce Barnhart, only one incident of Bob barfing, and Ranger and Stephanie finally do it after three books' worth of buildup.  As other reviewers have mentioned, there is a darker edge to the story--Stephanie searches for a mother and child fleeing on a custody bond, only to stumble up against a psychopath with a war games fetish who's intent on finding the pair himself.  Several scenes are downright chilling, not a usual thing in an Evanovich novel.  Most of the book, though, is typical breezy Stephanie, which makes the scary scenes that much more so.  Evanovich also seems to have recovered her knack for humor--this is the first time I've laughed aloud reading a Plum book in a while.<br />However, I do have a couple of bones to pick with Evanovich.  First, the exploding cars thing is getting VERY old.  It's interesting that Evanovich doesn't mention that New Jersey has the highest auto-insurance rates in the nation, because if Stephanie were real she'd have to pay about ten grand a year in car insurance (THREE of her cars are blown up in \\"Hard Eight\\").  Second, the shtick with the easy capture turning impossible is getting to be very annoying as well.  With her last two books, it seems like Evanovich is trying to take Stephanie into a little bit more serious territory, but still trying to make concessions to the fluff fans who just want to read about Stephanie and Morelli and Ranger and Grandma Mazur making dirty remarks.  \\"Hard Eight\\" put me very much in mind of Harlan Coben's early novels, which also have that weird mix of laugh-out-loud humor and incredibly dark scenes.  In the end, though, it's reawakened my interest in the Stephanie Plum series--but, Janet, let up on a poor Jersey girl and let her keep ONE car, okay?	2002-06-23
US	49903185	R2E7YLXWLA96EB	0399147853	952360082	Time and Chance	Books	4	16	20	N	N	A little off the pace, but still good	With &quot;Time and Chance&quot;, Sharon Kay Penman comes back to her roost as a entertaining historical novelist.  This book, the second in a planned trilogy concerning the lives and rule of Henry II of England and his consort Eleanor of Aquitaine, starts off pretty much where its predecessor, &quot;When Christ And His Saints Slept&quot; left off, with the twenty-one-year-old Henry firmly on the throne of England.  Penman, as usual, deftly steers the reader through fifteen years, the centerpiece being the conflict between Henry and his chancellor turned Archbishop of Canterbury Thomas Becket.  As other reviewers have noted, Penman has always had the gift of making the predictable suspenseful, and that's extremely hard to do in a context where an author knows the majority of her audience is familiar with the territory she's traversing.  I will, however, disagree with the assessment of her treatment of Becket.  Certainly any book dealing with Henry II has to cover Becket, but Penman has always made her royalty and relatives of royalty the main characters, and the point of view will always be from those characters.  Henry is shown as not knowing Becket very well, and Penman simply puts the reader in Henry's position.  <br />Not that &quot;Time and Chance&quot; is perfect, however.  Penman is developing the romance novelist habit of using dialogue as an historical lecture, which is annoying.  Also, the fictional characters of Ranulf Fitz Roy and his family (including the straight-outta-Harlequin-named wife Rhiannon) is another ploy used by lesser historical novelists for a &quot;ooh, just look where I happened to be!&quot; overview of history, although to be fair Penman doesn't have Ranulf showing up at every major event.  &quot;Time and Chance&quot; is not Penman's strongest work, but she's still one of the best when it comes to making medieval history fascinating, readable, and human.	2002-05-25
US	49903185	R37KAIIRKDT7F5	0609610597	723611342	The Shelters of Stone (Earth's Children, Book 5)	Books	2	3	3	N	N	We waited twelve years for THIS?	I'll be honest--I wasn't expecting great things from Jean Auel's long-anticipated fifth novel in the Earth's Children series, because ... well, it was long anticipated.  Anything hyped to this degree was bound to be a letdown.<br />But even I was surprised at how hard it hit bottom.<br />\\"The Shelters of Stone\\" reads almost like a mirror image of \\"The Mammoth Hunters,\\" down to an actual hunt.  Auel spends tens of pages describing prehistoric fauna that I would swear to Zelandoni she described the same way in her previous books.  Ayla is still Blond Cro-Magnon Supergirl, and Jondalar, pretty as he is, still tends to be whiny.  We have the by-now-requisite woman lusting after Jondalar, the man who doesn't like Ayla, the deep priestess, and of course much exclaiming over Whinney, Racer and Wolf, not to mention wonder at Ayla's \\"inventions.\\"  And don't forget the \\"flatheads are people too\\" sentiments.  Yeah, Ayla and Jondalar finally get \\"mated\\" in this book, and Ayla pops out the baby, who is given the annoyingly cutesy name of Jonayla.  That's it for new stuff.  Auel has never mastered the art of giving newcomers enough information to figure out what's gone before while not boring the tears out of fans.  Everything is explained at length repeatedly, making the reader feel like Auel thinks everyone is an idiot with no memory.  Even the sex scenes are the same, albeit adapted a little to accommodate Ayla's pregnancy.<br />There's supposedly one more book left in the series.  Let's hope Jean goes out with a bang with that one.	2002-05-10
US	49903185	R3BYNX4YNBBWOW	1401033148	448346249	Inexquisite Eye	Books	2	4	20	N	N	John Updike meets Ally McBeal	D.B. Smith's &quot;The Inexquisite Eye&quot; is one of those maddening novels in which characters who have no real problems seem to go out of their way to attract as much drama and angst as they can.  Such is the case with Smith's Elissa Laughlin, a young lawyer who basically decides that if the game doesn't go her way, she's not going to play anymore.  She then goes into one long stream of passive-aggressive behavior that ultimately ends up costing her her relationship and her job, and then wonders why her life is so miserable.  Family and friends try to intervene to no avail, in spite of the endless talking everyone does in the book.  <br />I understand the point Smith tries to make about living one's life without compromise, but in the process he makes Elissa so intensely unlikable that he ultimately sabotages that point.  Of course, that could have been his intention!  The pacing of this book is wildly uneven as well, with sixty pages being devoted to one evening and three years dispensed with in two pages.  This is also one of the most empty-talking books I've read in quite some time--everyone goes on and on at length about nothing in particular (with the exception of Elissa's friend Kathleen, who is brutal about speaking her mind and therefore is the most likable character in the novel).  The premise of &quot;The Inexquisite Eye&quot; is excellent, but poorly executed.  A little more plot and a LOT less dialogue, and Smith would have had a great novel.	2002-04-27
US	49903185	R2MXKJWK84XX21	0060987103	816790174	Wicked: The Life and Times of the Wicked Witch of the West	Books	3	4	4	N	N	An imaginative twist on a familiar classic	Another entry to the growing number of novels telling the background stories of characters in well-known literary works, Gregory Maguire's \\"Wicked\\" showcases the Wicked Witch of the West in \\"The Wizard of Oz.\\"  But all is not Technicolor and happy songs in Maguire's Oz--the Yellow Brick Road is a failed government project, talking animals are ruthlessly oppressed, and the Witch herself is a fascinating character study.<br />There are numerous themes running through \\"Wicked,\\" but the most prominent seems to be whether evil is learned or an innate behavior.  Elphaba, the Witch (named for the initials of L. Frank Baum in Maguire's sly wink to the \\"Oz\\" creator), is made an extraordinarily compelling character, a woman who knew from childhood that she was different.  She is anti-social and blunt, but is passionate about what she believes in.  Becoming a witch is merely a smokescreen that she hides behind to reconcile what she believes herself to be.<br />What that is, however, tends to get lost in the the myriad (and often left dangling) threads of the story.  There's a lot of political spouting in \\"Wicked,\\" and a lot of college-student-style philosophy as well, which, considering that a good part of the book takes place during Elphaba's college years, is fairly apt.  Maguire's dialogue is schizophrenic, going from the courtly speech of Baum's Oz to jarring modernity often in the same sentence.  Take out the familiar Oz place names, and \\"Wicked\\" could take place in a beaten-down Eastern European country in the Cold War years, with the prerequisite angsty speeches.  <br />Maguire adds some interesting touches--Galinda, who is better known to \\"Oz\\" fans as Glinda The Good Witch, is Elphaba's snooty college roommate; the Cowardly Lion makes an appearance as a frightened cub during a lecture given by a goat; the reasoning behind Elphaba's desire for the silver slippers is revealed.  The familiar elements of \\"Oz,\\" most notably Dorothy, don't start until the end of the book, and, as is par for his course, Maguire makes the whole thing about politics.  This is not a book for the starry-eyed \\"Oz\\" fan, and it is most definitely not for children.  It's a highly imaginative novel, and if the reader hangs in there, they will be rewarded with a whole new set of thoughts concerning arguably the greatest American fantasy novel.	2002-04-22
US	49903185	R241GT8Y7CZTA4	0767905180	310021894	Jemima J: A Novel About Ugly Ducklings and Swans	Books	2	7	9	N	N	Breezy, cliched, predictable	Jane Green's &quot;Jemima J&quot; is yet another in the English-single-girl romances that have sprung up like mushrooms on manure in the wake of &quot;Bridget Jones' Diary.&quot;  Thankfully, Jemima Jones is not nearly as annoying as Bridget, although she is not well-dimensioned.  A overweight twenty-something who writes a household-tips column for a suburban British newspaper, she envies the thin models in magazines while sighing over the handsome Ben, a junior editor.  Discovering the Internet during a training class at her job, she meets L.A. resident Brad in a chat room and reinvents herself as JJ, a sleek blond beauty (the illusion is helped along by a computer geek and Photoshop).  When Brad wants to meet her, she panics, then resolves to lose weight to be what she thinks Brad wants.  She succeeds dramatically (if remarkably quickly--90 pounds in four months if my math is right) and turns into ... a beauty.  There's a shocker, eh?  Alas--of course--nothing is as it seems as she heads for California.<br />My main problem with the book is that Jane Green tries way too hard to cover a bunch of topical themes.  There's the fat vs. thin thing, the Internet dating scene, image vs. personality, desperate British singleton behavior, etc., and every theme goes as one would expect.  Her penchant for constantly changing points of view don't help either.  There is a small twist towards the end, but other than that the book is completely predictable.  It's not awful, but it's literary cotton candy, right down to its pink cover.	2002-04-19
US	49903185	R15CBA1M31RZQP	0446602612	243715630	The Poet	Books	3	7	11	N	N	Ehhh ...	Out of the three Michael Connolly novels I've read (the other two being \\"Angels Flight\\" and \\"Trunk Music\\"), \\"The Poet\\" was, at least in my mind, the most readable.  Connelly sets up an excellent premise--after his twin brother, a Denver PD detective, is found dead in what looks to be a suicide over an unsolvable case, a journalist begins his own investigation, only to find that his brother may be the latest in a line of cop homicides set up to look like suicides.  The band that ties them together are quotes from Edgar Allan Poe poems supposedly left as suicide notes.<br />The book opens with a bang, with Connelly providing expert plotting and pace, but ... as with a great deal of commercial thrillers, the cliches start showing up.  First, we have the cop's widow discovering she's pregnant (\\"and we weren't even trying!\\").  Then we have the sexy troubled female FBI agent showing up and getting involved with the journalist, then her ex-husband and fellow agent shows up to be a bad..., then the stereotypical superior preening of the supposed murderer ... on and on until the out-of-nowhere and pretty unbelievable ending.  Connelly writes well--his particular strength is dialogue--and if push came to shove I would definitely read his work over that of James Patterson or Ridley Pearson.  \\"The Poet\\" in the end, however, is a fairly typical commercial thriller, albeit with a little more poetry.	2002-02-26
US	49903185	RD3YPP547RGVB	0671695304	406487710	Forever	Books	4	10	10	N	N	A provocative, thoughtful teen novel	In a recent phone conversation, my sister mentioned that her 13-year-old daughter had just read Judy Blume's \\"Forever ...\\", which had provoked, in her words, \\"a pretty decent conversation on sex and relationships.\\"  I managed to find my dog-eared copy in a box of books destined for Goodwill, and despite the fact it was written over a quarter century ago, I was amazed at how true much of it still rang.  Yeah, when I was in the sixth grade we giggled at the \\"dirty\\" parts (which, upon re-reading, Blume handled fairly tastefully), but overall it's a very realistic picture of a \\"first love\\" relationship.  Modern readers may decry the lack of condom usage after Katherine goes on the Pill, but in 1975, the year the book was published, AIDS wasn't an issue.  There's also two nice little subplots about teenage pregnancy and wanting to lose one's virginity that are also handled very well without \\"Hollywood\\" endings.  The 1970s had a lot of excellent young adult authors, but Judy Blume reigned supreme, and \\"Forever ...\\" is one of the many reasons why she did.  If your kid wants to read this, let them.  Chances are a good conversation will come out of it.	2002-02-19
US	49903185	R3B5Q0J4GT72F7	0316693235	147933002	Violets Are Blue ~ Detective Alex Cross Series	Books	1	1	1	N	N	Trees died for this?	I will take people's word for it that James Patterson, once upon a time, wrote good books.  I just might not have found them, because &quot;Violets Are Blue&quot; is the fourth lousy Patterson novel I've read, the others being &quot;See How They Run,&quot; &quot;When The Wind Blows&quot; and &quot;Roses Are Red.&quot;  The premise is simple--people are being killed in slasher-flick fashion (described by Patterson with obvious enjoyment in the bloody details), and DC detective/psychologist Alex Cross is being tormented by the &quot;Mastermind&quot;, who's behind the crimes.  In the meantime, he's attracted to the perky female San Francisco cop who's on the case and pining for the FBI agent who got killed in this book's prequel, &quot;Roses Are Red.&quot;  Sure, the chapters are short, but except when it comes to people booting off Patterson goes into zero character detail, his plotting is highly predictible, and his dialogue is atrocious.  Occasionally, he'll descend into hilarious namedropping to prove how &quot;hip&quot; he is (yeah, I can really envision a man in his late forties jamming to Nine Inch Nails, as Alex supposedly does).  Judging by the inexplicable success of his books, one can only assume that James Patterson made the same deal with Lucifer that was also made by Danielle Steel and David Balducci.  For absolute diehards only.	2002-02-19
US	49903185	R9SE6R9P346KW	0767903129	505579595	Old Gods Almost Dead: The 40-Year Odyssey of the Rolling Stones	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Sex, drugs, rock 'n' roll, more drugs ...	I picked up \\"Old Gods Almost Dead\\" not because I'm a huge Stones fan (although I was present at the \\"Steel Wheels\\" kickoff show in Philadelphia in 1989), but because I'd read and enjoyed Stephen Davis' excellent biography of Led Zeppelin, \\"Hammer Of The Gods.\\"  \\"Old Gods ...\\" is very readable, despite Davis' occasional rock-journalist-pretentious prose and dubious sources (I'm sorry, anyone who uses Pamela Des Barres' gushfest \\"I'm With The Band\\" as a credited source is suspect).  Davis covers the Brian Jones years extensively and colorfully, then glosses over everything else except the copious amounts and types of drugs consumed by the band.  Non-fans will find the book interesting reading; diehards will dislike the tabloid tones.  And just a nitpick, Mr. Davis--Keith Richards' wife's name is Patti Hansen, not Hanson ...	2002-02-10
US	49903185	R2GWH0JWX9NEL4	0618025200	63314428	Columbus Slaughters Braves	Books	3	0	1	N	N	A well-written, albeit predictable, debut	In his debut novel, \\"Columbus Slaughters Braves,\\" Mark Friedman presents a fairly straightforward tale of sibling jealousy.  The protagonist, Joe Columbus, is the older brother of Chicago Cubs third baseman CJ Columbus, who ascends to the pantheon of superstardom (complete with lucrative Nike endorsement) while Joe teaches high school science.  Joe's jealousy of his golden-boy brother spills over into his marriage, his non-existent relationship with his parents, who fawn over CJ, and even his job (during a parent-teacher conference, the parent asks about CJ).  Friedman writes well, almost lyrically; Joe's bitterness is palpable throughout the book.  However, the story takes a maudlin \\"Brian's Song\\" turn, and while it doesn't end in tearful avowals of love, it's predictable enough to make your eyes roll.  Friedman shows immense amounts of promise, but outside of Joe the characters are very stereotypical and one-dimensional.  I'm not surprised the book has already been purchased for the movies; it's the type of story Hollywood loves.  Still, \\"Columbus Slaughters Braves\\" is a nice evening's read, and Mark Friedman is a talent to watch.	2002-02-10
US	49903185	R1QD66H18775HP	0385495854	323396054	Hostage: A Novel	Books	2	9	11	N	N	Another cookie cutter	Robert Crais' latest novel, &quot;Hostage,&quot; continues in the same disappointing vein as its predecessor, &quot;Demolition Angel.&quot;  Once a master of the smart-aleck remark and cool plot twist, Crais now just seems to be going through the motions with this clichefest about a burned-out hostage negotiator turned small town police chief who finds himself embroiled in--surprise!--a hostage situation.  This is a &quot;90/10&quot; book--you'll know 90 percent of what's going to happen within the first hundred pages and will be able to guess the other ten percent.  The whole book screams &quot;future Jerry Bruckheimer big-budget special effects blockbuster,&quot; which isn't necessarily a good thing.  There's nothing in &quot;Hostage&quot; that hasn't been done before; it's almost as if Crais was lifting scenes from other novels, changing the names, and doing a little verbal stitchery to tie it all together.  It's not necessarily the fact that &quot;Hostage&quot; isn't an Elvis Cole book that makes it bad--to be honest, I was disappointed in the last Elvis outing &quot;L.A. Requiem&quot; for much the same reasons--but the fact that Crais doesn't seem to be putting in the same effort now that he's a &quot;bestseller.&quot;  Take a rest, Bob, then come back and show us what you've got!	2002-01-29
US	49903185	R1JC2EKRT4SVR2	0060394455	325593509	The Family: A Novel	Books	2	6	8	N	N	Reads like a draft rather than a completed novel	The cover of Mario Puzo's last novel &quot;The Family&quot; may read &quot;Completed By Carol Gino,&quot; but the actual reading indicates otherwise.  In the afterword, Ms. Gino, who was Puzo's companion of twenty years, even expresses her anxiety at the task of completing a novel which was obviously a labor of love for Puzo.  As a result, I think she handled the manuscript pretty gingerly, and as I read, I began to believe that &quot;The Family,&quot; while undeniably Puzo, was far from a completed project at the time of his death.  Then again, Puzo himself supposedly lamented that the writing of a novel about the powerful and infamous Borgia family was a Herculean task, which was why he went back and forth to the manuscript for the better part of fifteen years.<br />Anyone who is familiar with Puzo's writing know his love of detail--which is sadly lacking in &quot;The Family.&quot;  The writing is rushed in places, nearly purple in others, and the uneveness detracts from the story.  The characters are surprisingly one-dimensional, and at the end I felt like I had read a Harlequin Temptation with a little more bloodshed.  The whole enterprise smacks of publisher greed, one last chance to make money off the man who wrote arguably one of the greatest pop novels of all time, and one only has to compare &quot;The Family&quot; to any of Puzo's other novels to realize this.	2002-01-18
US	49903185	RKIS40TSMESIC	0764564218	908854107	The Unofficial Guide? to Walt Disney World? 2002 (Unofficial Guides)	Books	3	9	12	N	N	The Disney Commando's Bible	Those of us who are Disney veterans occasionally have discussions about which is the most helpful guidebook, this book or the Birnbaum Guide (which is semi-endorsed by WDW and thus, say its detractors, doesn't present an accurate picture).  While the Unofficial Guide is literally twice the length of the Birnbaum Guide and does present good feedback from Disney vacationers, I've always felt that it takes the fun out of the WDW experience by its concentration on getting on the rides.<br />Anyone who has been to any of the WDW parks has seen what have been nicknamed &quot;Disney Commandos.&quot;  These are the people (usually harried parents with small whiny children) who charge through a park like they're on a mission from God to get on every single attraction in the course of a day.  The Unofficial Guide does lay out some good game plans for the Commandos, so if your goal is to get on Tower of Terror three times in a day, this is a good book.  It also reviews every full service restaurant in WDW, but the reviews smack a little bit of the author's personal tastes.  There's also a decent section about visiting the Orlando area, including Universal Studios and Sea World.<br />The Unofficial Guide does go into a lot of depth, and if you're tackling WDW for the first time you won't go wrong in buying either this book or the Birnbaum book--heck, buy both of them.  WDW is not a place like Six Flags where you can just show up.  It covers an area the size of San Francisco, so any and all planning you do will help you immensely, particularly if you have kids.	2002-01-16
US	49903185	R2BKTF9IHOHU88	0385315279	983256815	The Fiery Cross	Books	3	28	32	N	Y	Enjoyable, but not memorable	Like many others, I waited very expectantly to receive &quot;The Fiery Cross.&quot;  Unlike many others, I did not expect it to be the whiz-bang read that was &quot;Outlander&quot; or &quot;Voyager.&quot;  I just hoped it would be better than &quot;Drums of Autumn.&quot;  It is--but not by much.<br />Sure, there's some pre-Revolutionary stirrings as the dashing Jamie Fraser is called upon to form a local militia against potential uprisings in the colony of North Carolina, and the evil Stephen Bonnet, who raped Jamie and Claire's daughter Brianna in &quot;Drums of Autumn&quot; and may be the father of Brianna's son Jemmy, makes a dastardly appearance.  That about does it for the excitement in the book.  The Gathering which ended &quot;Drums&quot; literally takes up the first 300 pages of &quot;Cross.&quot;  Gabaldon loves minutiae, particularly that dealing with anything medical, and a less devoted fan may find their eyes crossing with boredom when she has Claire giving medical treatment to seemingly everyone in the colony!  The one character that really comes to life in &quot;Cross&quot; is Roger (Wakefield) McKenzie, who loses a lot of the boorish bluster he displayed in &quot;Drums&quot; and becomes ... well, a good man.  Brianna, surprisingly, is nearly shoved to the background, and much too much attention is showered on Jemmy, who aside from his cute sayings and noises does nothing to move the story along.  Jamie and Claire are still good characters, although I must agree with some of my fellow reviewers that the constant reminders of Jamie's hair color and the size of Claire's breasts and bottom aren't really necessary.  <br />Gabaldon writes well enough so that the minutiae is readable, but I found myself skipping ahead quite a bit--she could have easily cut 400 pages of the book without losing any of the story, in my opinion.  &quot;The Fiery Cross&quot; is without a doubt a &quot;set-up&quot; book--not much happens, but hints are given that the next book will have much more action.  Hope will once again spring eternal ...	2001-11-16
US	49903185	R1RCNOPYGYGPSM	044022425X	173145556	The Drums of Autumn	Books	3	8	11	N	N	Still good--just not AS good	&quot;Drums of Autumn,&quot; the fourth novel in Diana Gabaldon's Outlander series, continues the adventures of eighteenth-century Highlander Jamie Fraser and his time-travelling twentieth-century wife Claire.  Recently arrived in the American colonies after the shipwreck that ended &quot;Voyager,&quot; Jamie and Claire, along with Jamie's nephew Ian, make their way to the mountains of western North Carolina to establish their new home (after the requisite meetings with relatives, bandits, and other assorted colorful characters).  Meanwhile back in 1969 Boston, their daughter Brianna makes a horrible discovery about her parents' demise and decides to journey back in time herself to prevent that.  She is followed by Roger Wakefield, the dashing Scottish historian, who always shows up a little too late to prevent the headstrong Brianna from getting into major trouble.<br />Brianna and Roger are the two major reasons I did not enjoy &quot;Drums of Autumn&quot; nearly as much as the other books.  They are in many ways the typical couple to be found in historical romances--Brianna is at once whiny and stubborn, while Roger is overbearing.  Gabaldon uses the classic (and annoying) romance devices of miscommunication and &quot;whose child is this?&quot; to further their story along.  Jamie and Claire are, as always, great characters, but Gabaldon's tendency of making sure every bad event has closure (and good ones as well, since she drags in John Gray and Jamie's son Willie) stretches thin the already thin suspension of disbelief necessary to make the time-travel idea work.  Overall, Gabaldon's work is miles above other romance writers (and, at heart, these books are romances), but &quot;Drums of Autumn&quot; is definitely the weakest in the series.	2001-10-20
US	49903185	R1NC988L3QK1VO	0399148019	723229047	The Absence of Nectar	Books	2	7	10	N	N	Nothing that hasn't been done before	Anyone who has ever seen the movie &quot;The Stepfather&quot; will find zero surprises or moments of suspense in Kathy Hepinstall's second novel, &quot;The Absence of Nectar.&quot;  An eleven-year-old in 1970's Texas suspects that her weak-willed mother's abusive new husband is trying to murder them, while her dreamy brother becomes increasingly obsessed with a teenage poisoner with a penchant for jailbreaks.  Overall, Hepinstall's writing is fine--think a less quirky John Irving--but the story is totally predictible, albeit with a &quot;gee, isn't THAT convenient&quot; twist involving the poisoner and the evil stepfather.  As has been mentioned before, the adults in the novel are one-dimensional to the point of hilarity, and the kids are just a little too complex to be believable.  Oprah Winfrey will undoubtedly snap this up for her book club if she ever comes across it, but Hepinstall needs to make up her mind if she wants to be either a literary novelist or a commericial novelist, because at this point she's trying a little too hard to be both.	2001-10-17
US	49903185	R34J44PQZ2S1YK	0553574752	243454269	Protein Power: The High-Protein/Low Carbohydrate Way to Lose Weight, Feel Fit, and Boost Your Health-in Just Weeks!	Books	3	9	16	N	Y	It works, but not for the reasons you think	Low-carb diets are still reigning supreme as the weight-loss fad du jour, but &quot;Protein Power&quot;, a more sensible version of the plan, is often lost in the glare of the better-known Atkins diet.  Doctors Michael (a cardiologist) and Mary Dan (who specializes in eating disorders) Eades present a fairly easy-to-follow plan that emphasizes protein and produce rather than pasta, and if one follows the plan to the letter they will find themselves losing weight.  However, their insistence that weight loss is due to the &quot;rebalancing&quot; of insulin and not because ... well, you're eating less and working out renders the idea a bit far-fetched (and sorry, doctors, those cheesy infomercials don't help your cause, either).  Still, this is a good book to get a jump on healthy living, and hey, if it makes you put down that donut it's all good!	2001-10-15
US	49903185	RA1J349BIXJ2Y	0743216342	360837245	Hollywood Wives : The New Generation	Books	1	2	3	N	N	Beating a dead Arabian with a Gucci whip	Back in the eighties, I adored Jackie Collins' novels.  Sure, they were short on plot and long on name-dropping, but they were always fun to read.  Not anymore, though.  Judging by her last few novels, including &quot;Hollywood Wives: The New Generation,&quot; it seems as though Collins is merely recycling the same tired plot, albeit with new trends and recently fashionable caterers.  Take one mega-famous woman, one mega-famous guy, throw in a smart adolescent and a power couple with a thirty-year age difference, add a psychopath, mix with a little sex and shopping, change the names and voila!  She can't even come up with original titles any more.  We had the first &quot;Hollywood Wives,&quot; then &quot;Hollywood Husbands,&quot; then &quot;Hollywood Kids,&quot; now this one.  What's next, &quot;Hollywood Pets?&quot;  (We will not talk about the Lucky Santangelo books, Collins' other abused equine.)  Collins' dialogue is horrendous, and she must absolutely worship Madonna, considering that most of her recent novels contain a Madonna clone (here it's Lissa Roman).  You're better off re-reading &quot;Lucky,&quot; &quot;Chances,&quot; or the original &quot;Hollywood Wives&quot; then spending any time or money on this novel, because those were the last books she wrote that were actually readable.	2001-08-24
US	49903185	R34V1PQFA423L5	0312265840	198558647	Seven Up (Stephanie Plum, No. 7) (Stephanie Plum Novels)	Books	2	11	14	N	N	Stephanie Plum is getting pruny	Like many others, I've been an avid reader of Janet Evanovich's Stephanie Plum series since the outrageously funny &quot;One For The Money.&quot;  However, the latest Plum caper, &quot;Seven Up,&quot; continues the downward spiral of the series that started with &quot;High Five.&quot;  Stephanie's been doing the bounty-hunter thing for a while; you'd think by now she'd be, if not an expert, at least a little more competent.  But no, she still bumbles and stumbles her way along.  She's still destroying cars and chasing old people around too, devices that are REALLY getting old.  And if I ever read one more description of Bob the golden retriever's bowel movements or one more insult-fest between Stephanie and Joyce Barnhart (finished with Lula zapping Joyce with her stun gun), it'll be too soon.  And of course, we have the whole Stephanie/Morelli/Ranger thing going, which is also getting boring, because I predict that in the next book Stephanie will have her little fling with Ranger and then go trotting right back to Morelli in classic romance-novel form (Evanovich wrote for Silhouette for years before beginning Stephanie's adventures).  I'll admit right now I will read number eight, because I'm an optimist at heart, but Evanovich needs to shake this series up in a major way--and soon.	2001-07-11
US	49903185	R2TR0EEX2BE06V	038550120X	299088859	A Painted House	Books	3	11	12	N	N	Not hugely impressed	I've always considered John Grisham a very hit-or-miss author (I loved &quot;The Rainmaker&quot;, loathed &quot;The Testament&quot;, didn't get why people loved &quot;The Firm&quot; so much, etc.), so I picked up &quot;A Painted House&quot; with some interest.  Grisham steps out of his legal-thriller oervre with this short tale of a seven-year-old boy in 1952 Arkansas during cotton-picking season.  Grisham's descriptions are remarkably vivid, more so here than in any of his other novels.  The story, however, reminded me of &quot;To Kill A Mockingbird&quot; mixed with &quot;The Grapes of Wrath&quot;, and was at times utterly predictable as a result.  As this was originally published in serial form, the book is episodic more than flowing, and despite his lush descriptions Grisham's characters are complete Southern cliches.  It's not the worst book Grisham's ever written (my vote goes to &quot;The Testament&quot;, which I found utterly wretched), but it's not a masterpiece.  An okay weekend read, nothing more.	2001-06-28
US	49903185	R2XFI12PTQMGOM	0399147101	540217053	Potshot	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Spenser's Wild West adventure	&quot;Potshot&quot;, Robert Parker's latest Spenser novel, gets back on familiar ground, if not a familiar location.  After the tersely unmysterious &quot;Hugger Mugger&quot;, Parker has Spenser cracking wise and being tough in Potshot, Arizona, where he's investigating the death of a high school football coach turned outfitter at the request of the deceased's pretty blond wife.  All fingers are pointing towards the Preacher, who heads a gang of thugs who have been terrorizing Potshot (and driving down property values in the bargain), but Spenser has his doubts.  Hired by Potshot's city council to clear out the thugs, Spenser heads back to Boston to recruit the ever-ready Hawk, then travels around to complete his posse with bad guys from previous books (including gay club-owner/tough guy Tedy Sapp from &quot;Hugger Mugger&quot;, who's a dead ringer for Spike in Parker's Sunny Randall novels).  Twists and turns abound, but Spenser, in his usual Renaissance Thug style, comes out the winner as always.<br />&quot;Potshot&quot; is a much better book than &quot;Hugger Mugger,&quot; mainly because it has Spenser doing what he does best--busting heads, enjoying good food, and romancing Susan Silverman.  He hasn't slowed down a whit, considering that if Parker's timeline is correct, Spenser is approaching seventy (Parker briefly mentions Spenser's time in Korea--do the math).  Parker's prose is at once spare and elegant, with the usual great dialogue.  Parker fans should enjoy it; newcomers, however, may want to start with an earlier novel.	2001-06-17
US	49903185	RX2OH4TN6GLUQ	0439139597	667539744	Harry Potter And The Goblet Of Fire (Book 4)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Harry's growing up, and so are his adventures	&quot;Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire&quot; is by far the best--and most thought-provoking--in the series.  While it starts off in typical zany fashion as the Weasleys fetch Harry to attend the Quidditch World Cup finals, complete with strange traveling arrangements and spells galore, the book quickly veers into more turbulent waters, as the World Cup gathering is terrified by the sighting of the Dark Mark, not seen since the dreaded Lord Voldemort stalked the wizarding world.  To further complicate matters, Harry is inexplicably chosen to compete in the Triwizard Tournament, held between Hogwarts and two other wizarding schools, and finds himself contending with much more than he expected.<br />Older kids and Harry's many adult fans will find &quot;Goblet of Fire&quot; to be compelling reading.  This is by far the darkest book in the series, with some extraordinarily chilling scenes (yes, there's even some bloodshed).  Parents of younger Harry Potter fans may want to take a look through the book before passing it on--there is some mild profanity (the d-word and the h-word) and situations that may confuse or frighten little ones, particularly towards the end.  The length (734 pages) may also be intimidating for some kids.  J.K. Rowling, however, is developing into an amazing fantasy writer.  She is obviously aware of Harry's maturing audience, and each book is a little more complex, a little deeper--and ultimately better than the last.	2001-04-22
US	49903185	RB29Y88XVO17H	0451180429	333139516	The Quiet Game (Penn Cage)	Books	1	19	29	N	N	Um ... are we all reading the same book?	&quot;The Quiet Game&quot; is one of those books where after the first 90 or so pages the reader knows about 90% of what is going to happen and can guess the other ten percent.  I find it hard to believe that many of my fellow reviewers and I were reading the same novel, because I do not see where the raves come in.  Ooh, a racial murder in Mississippi that no one wants solved--what an original plot!  Then you have Penn Cage, the hot-shot prosecutor turned bestselling novelist, whose beautiful young wife recently died of cancer leaving behind the obligatory adorable four-year-old daughter (insert &quot;aww&quot; here).  Mr. Iles then drags out every conceivable Southern stereotype, including black, white, rich, poor, carpetbagger, you name it.  Then to top it all off, we have Caitlin Masters, the beautiful Northern-raised daughter of a newspaper magnate slumming as the publisher of the Natchez, MS newspaper, desperately trying to prove herself to Daddy and tempting the saintly widower Penn at the same time (plus his little girl loves her!).  This book has the excitement of a snail race and the depth of a melted snowflake.  John Grisham did it (a little) better in &quot;A Time To Kill,&quot; so save your money on this one.	2001-04-13
US	49903185	R1D35JFWMN9KOU	0399146253	109258524	The Last Precinct (A Scarpetta Novel)	Books	2	5	5	N	N	Beating a dead horse (or a live werewolf?)	I agree with some of my fellow reviewers that in &quot;The Last Precinct,&quot; Patricia Cornwell drags in way too much of her previous novel, &quot;Black Notice&quot;--the first hundred pages literally paraphrase what went on in BN.  Unlike others, I've never found Dr. Kay Scarpetta to be a particularly sympathetic or even likable character.  Cornwell tends to paint Scarpetta as the all-knowing and all-seeing wisewoman, with an insufferable attitude towards those she finds &quot;inferior&quot;, most notably Pete Marino.  The situation with her niece Lucy (oh, did you know that she's a lesbian?  It's hard to ignore when Cornwell mentions that fact seemingly every time Lucy's name comes up) is getting to be a joke as well.  Cornwell, as usual, is technically flawless in the forensic details, but inside Scarpetta's chilly, self-absorbed psyche is not a place where'd I'd want to hang out for very long.	2001-03-04
US	49903185	R19XZZX89ESWXG	0151446474	444581246	The Name of the Rose	Books	3	7	7	N	N	Definitely not a light weekend read	Historical mystery fans who might be drawn to Umberto Eco's &quot;The Name Of The Rose&quot; by its reputation as being one of the best historical mysteries written might find themselves stumbling into a unexpected morass of Latin and theology instead.  This book can be very intimidating at first, but if you can hang on through the slow beginning, you will be rewarded with a good, thought-provoking story.  Some paperback editions provide a &quot;companion,&quot; which makes the story much easier to understand (I plowed through the book three times before all the pieces began to fit!), but nonetheless readers whose normal oeurvre are the likes of Grisham and Patterson may find &quot;The Name of The Rose&quot; extremely tough going.	2001-02-20
US	49903185	R8SQ5DS1BBY82	0425167720	89472327	An Instance of the Fingerpost	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Good, not great	&quot;An Instance of The Fingerpost&quot; is one of those books that starts out wonderfully, then gets caught up in its own cleverness and thus becomes only sporadically interesting.  Pears spends the most time and effort on the first narrator, the Venetian doctor Cola, but the other three narrators do not seem nearly as well-rounded as Cola, and that is to the book's detriment.  Still, not a bad weekend read and a nice change of pace for the historical mystery enthusiast.	2001-02-20
US	49903185	R3FF14OX3GLPTG	0385495846	437097764	Demolition Angel	Books	2	2	4	N	N	Crais takes a trip to Clicheville	I will not whine that Elvis Cole and Joe Pike aren't in Robert Crais' latest novel, &quot;Demolition Angel,&quot; because I'm sure every writer needs a break from old characters.  Plus, it's always interesting when a male writer's main character is female.  However, why is it when the protagonist is female she must ALWAYS be attracted to someone who comes into the picture, not to mention grieving over the lover that she worked with who got killed?  Crais descends into &quot;romantic suspense&quot; territory about a third of the way through &quot;Demolition Angel&quot;, and the book never recovers.  Also, I found it funny that all of the Internet postings and chat described in the book were perfectly spelled and punctuated.  Crais obviously has not spent much time on the Internet recently . . .  &quot;Demolition Angel&quot; is a middling effort by a very good writer.  Hey, everyone's entitled to a speed bump, right?	2001-02-06
US	49903185	R2G0Y0GOS2CB4J	0679463321	565707898	Killing Time	Books	2	9	10	N	N	Huh?	Having loved Caleb Carr's previous novels, &quot;The Alienist&quot; and &quot;The Angel of Darkness,&quot; I picked up &quot;Killing Time&quot; with a sense of delighted anticipation.  That anticipation, however, quickly disappeared as I plowed my way through this book.  What I hoped would be an interesting look into the near future turned into a science-fiction doomsday hodgepodge, complete with references to the obligatory economic depression and the epidemics and the natural disasters that always seem to pop up in these sorts of books.  Even more disconcertingly, much of the characters' dialogue could have been lifted from either of Carr's other novels, lending it a anachronistic air that jars violently with the storyline (and leads the reader to question how much Verne or Wells Carr read in his youth).  While Carr does raise some interesting points about the pervasiveness of Internet technology, he does so in a pompous, &quot;I am so far above the masses&quot; manner that's exremely annoying.  Science fiction fans not familiar with Carr's earlier work may enjoy &quot;Killing Time&quot;, but Carr's fans just hope this is just a blip in the career of an otherwise talented novelist.	2001-02-04
US	49903185	RQZLYODONLG4P	0688163165	733601761	Mystic River	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	No Patrick?  No Angie?  NO PROBLEM!	Fans of Dennis Lehane might have been a bit apprehensive upon hearing that his latest book, &quot;Mystic River,&quot; would have no traces of detectives Patrick Kenzie and Angie Gennaro.  Well, fear not, because Lehane, in his usual phenomenal style, draws us into the world of three childhood friends forever splintered by the events of a summer's day in 1975, when one is abducted by child molesters posing as police officers.<br />They are brought together again 25 years later--Sean, now a homicide detective; Jimmy, an ex-con who operates a neighborhood market, and David, who struggles with his life amongst memories of his abduction.  When Jimmy's 19-year-old daughter is found murdered, the voyage of discovery and memories begins, and the twists the story takes will have the reader flipping pages in a frenzy.  As has become a hallmark of his style, Lehane leads the reader down some very dark paths, but does so with grace, dignity, and incredibly elegant prose.  Let everyone else run to the bookstores for cookie-cutter novelists like Grisham, Patterson, and Clark--discerning mystery enthusiasts will stick with Dennis Lehane, hands down the best mystery novelist writing today.	2001-02-04
US	49903185	R2D66IGS8MWDD9	0553289411	282856370	The Plains of Passage	Books	2	24	37	N	N	Hope the next one's better . . .	First off, for all of you anxiously awaiting the next segment of the Earth's Children series, it was reported in the 1/14/01 issue of &quot;Parade&quot; that Jean Auel is: A) not dead and B) extremely close to finishing the long-awaited fifth book.  Supposedly, she's done so much research that she reassures readers that the fifth and sixth books will come out extremely close to each other.  No release date yet, but I have a feeling the new book may be out in time for Christmas.<br />With that said, one can certainly hope the next book is better than &quot;The Plains Of Passage.&quot;  I, too, have been an avid reader of the series since &quot;Clan Of The Cave Bear,&quot; but I wasn't thrilled with this book.  Yes, the nature scenes are repetitive; yes, Ayla and Jondalar are like prehistoric Super Friends; yes, even the sex palls after a while.  Auel's biggest sin in my mind, however, is that she makes the characters' words WAY too modern.  I sincerely doubt that Cro-Magnons used words like &quot;bifacially&quot; and &quot;extraordinary,&quot; and those anachronisms throw all of her meticulous research to the winds.  These books were once described as &quot;prehistorical romance,&quot; and that description's not too far off the mark.  But I have no doubt I'll be buying the fifth book when it comes out . . .	2001-01-18
US	49903185	R34U6QK9VUUPQ8	068487315X	753986140	Fear And Loathing In America: The Brutal Odyssey of an Outlaw Journalist (Gonzo Letters)	Books	4	14	16	N	N	An incisive glimpse into the Great Gonzo One	The main reason I've always enjoyed Hunter S. Thompson is his utter refusal to be nice.  He tells it like it is, and to hell with the consequences.  &quot;Fear And Loathing In America,&quot; a collection of Dr. Thompson's correspondence between 1968 and 1976, will have the reader running back to their bookcase for another look at &quot;Fear And Loathing in Las Vegas&quot; and, possibly his best work, &quot;Fear and Loathing On The Campaign Trail,&quot; which despite having been written nearly thirty years ago resonates as loudly and as truthfully today as it did in 1972.  Fans of the Doctor will welcome yet another glimpse into the heated mind of arguably the greatest counterculture journalist ever.  My only complaint--editor Douglas Brinkley must think Thompson's audience isn't too bright, because when anyone's name is brought up he has to stick in a footnote explaining who they are.  Some of them are helpful, but . . . um, Mr. Brinkley, I think most people know who Hitler and J. Edgar Hoover are . . .	2001-01-02
US	49903185	RDZ51NZ0WTMIW	1559725265	989961389	Rumours Exposed: The Unauthorized Biography of Fleetwood Mac	Books	2	9	11	N	N	Nothing new	Even a casual fan of Fleetwood Mac's will not find any surprises in Leah Furman's biography, &quot;Rumours Exposed&quot;.  It's obvious Furman did not talk to anyone even remotely associated with FM, and she used readily accessable print/Web sources for the majority of her information.  The writing is stop and go as well, as if this was a magazine article padded to book length, and Ms. Furman's style veers between rock-journalist pretension and gushy fan.  Diehards may just want the book to add to their collection, but if you're less than that, just borrow it from your local public library.	2000-12-04
US	49903185	R2U0R5EB7753P0	0060197978	535309358	Celine Dion : My Story, My Dream	Books	2	9	14	N	N	A modern-day Trilby	The power of Celine Dion's voice is not to be denied, but to read her &quot;autobiography&quot; is a disturbing experience to those of us who are not devoted fans.  &quot;My Story, My Dream&quot; is one of those &quot;everything I've done and everyone I've met is so wonderful&quot; books, and while Ms. Dion's name is on the cover, it is the hand of her husband/manager Rene Angelil that appears on every page.  Far from presenting him as the near-god she (and the rest of her family) obviously believes him to be, Ms. Dion's gushing worship instead reveals Angelil for what he truly is--a master marketer and charming manipulator.  He dangled the carrot of stardom in front of Ms. Dion's family, who then had no compunctions about handing their twelve-year-old daughter to a middle-aged man who essentially separated his young charge from everything she had ever known in order to &quot;make her a star.&quot;  In the process, he thoroughly convinced a young, impressionable girl that HE was the only one who knew what was best for her.  Is it any wonder that Ms. Dion fastened her affections on him, the only man outside her family he ever allowed to get near her?  That Angelil made Ms. Dion the success she is today is undeniable, but he also has made her a emotionally fragile puppet who will probably self-destruct if something ever happens to her master--and &quot;My Story, My Dream&quot; is by no means reassuring otherwise.	2000-12-04
US	49903185	R2QM5DFEBYVWLO	0684855631	430524886	The Empty Chair	Books	3	2	5	N	N	Not impressed	I have to admit that my first contact with Jeffrey Deaver's work was the film version of his novel &quot;The Bone Collector.&quot;  It was not a film I was deeply impressed with, but since so many good books translate into lousy movies, when I came across &quot;The Empty Chair,&quot; I decided to give it a chance.  Well . . . I wasn't that impressed with this, either.  Technically, Deavers writes well, but I really didn't find myself drawn into the story or to the characters, although the plot was certainly one of the more interesting ones I've come across.  I also attempted this book's predecessor, &quot;The Coffin Dancer,&quot; with much the same result.  To me, Deaver brings the secondary and minor characters to life far better than he does his main characters, Lincoln Rhyme and Amelia Sachs.  I may try to go back and read some of Deaver's earlier Rhyme novels and see if my opinion changes, but as of right now, I definitely would not recommend &quot;The Empty Chair&quot; to those unfamiliar with Deaver's work.	2000-10-30
US	49903185	R3MF2A4NPCTJFT	1556524048	461509028	Forever Amber (Rediscovered Classics)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Still one of the best!	When I was a kid, my mother told me about sneaking &quot;Forever Amber&quot; out of her older sister's room and being grounded for two months when the book was found in her possession!  Naturally, when I came across it in a used bookstore, I immediately snapped it up.  Although by today's standards it's pretty tame, &quot;Forever Amber&quot; must have been quite shocking back in the forties when it was first published.  But it's not the racy tidbits that will keep you reading--it's the astounding historical details and just plain old good storytelling.  It's got its flaws--Amber's complete wishy-washiness when it came to Bruce being the major one--but this is still an escapist classic.  Enjoy!	2000-10-09
US	49903185	RCZTSFPBCFKBM	0899668143	829916644	Katherine	Books	5	7	7	N	N	One of the all-time great historical novels	When I was 13, I found &quot;Katherine&quot; in a box of books taken from my late grandmother's house.  The back blurb looked sort of interesting, so I sat down, opened it up, and (according to my father) was not seen again for two days!  I remember that the paperback had sort of a romance-novel type cover (red-haired heroine with maximum cleavage).  It is anything but romance, although the love affair between Katherine Swynford and John of Gaunt is a major part of the plot.  Fourteenth-century England comes alive in the deft hands of Ms. Seton, complete with stenches and various religious superstitions, once again proving that history usually provides the best plots for novels!  I've read about five copies to tatters and am working on number six.  Not enough superlatives available to describe how good &quot;Katherine&quot; is--I envy those about to make the discovery . . .	2000-10-09
US	49903185	R24VK9L3R534BJ	0399146687	239822085	Perish Twice	Books	3	28	31	N	N	Sunny's second outing has a lot of echoes	Robert Parker's newest character, Boston P.I. Sunny Randall, returns in &quot;Perish Twice,&quot; but this time she's juggling the role of relationship counselor along with her usual sleuthing duties.  Her snooty sister learns of her husband's mistress and plunges into bouts of self-pity mixed with revenge; her best friend, bored with her marriage, has an affair, and a lesbian feminist becomes increasingly unhelpful when it's revealed that her stalker might know her more intimately than she's willing to admit.  Through it all, Sunny struggles with her own relationship with her ex-husband Richie and comes closer to danger with each new twist of her case.<br />It's still too early to tell where Parker will take the character of Sunny.  At this point, she still seems like the female equivalent of Parker's most famous character, Spenser, albeit a bit more ladylike.  The book itself is fairly typical, uninspired Parker--the plot is reminiscent of an early Spenser novel, &quot;Looking For Rachel Wallace.&quot;  Sunny's relationship with Richie echoes a similar situation with Parker's other character Jesse Stone.  Parker fans will experience a lot of deja vu with &quot;Perish Twice,&quot; but it's still a fairly enjoyable read.	2000-10-05
US	49903185	R22MKPDBAUUCHW	0399146687	239822085	Perish Twice	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Sunny's second outing has a lot of echoes	Robert Parker's newest character, Boston P.I. Sunny Randall, returns in &quot;Perish Twice,&quot; but this time she's juggling the role of relationship counselor along with her usual sleuthing duties.  Her snooty sister learns of her husband's mistress and plunges into bouts of self-pity mixed with revenge; her best friend, bored with her marriage, has an affair, and a lesbian feminist becomes increasingly unhelpful when it's revealed that her stalker might know her more intimately than she's willing to admit.  Through it all, Sunny struggles with her own relationship with her ex-husband Richie and comes closer to danger with each new twist of her case.<br />It's still too early to tell where Parker will take the character of Sunny.  At this point, she still seems like the female equivalent of Parker's most famous character, Spenser, albeit a bit more ladylike.  The book itself is fairly typical, uninspired Parker--the plot is reminiscent of an early Spenser novel, &quot;Looking For Rachel Wallace.&quot;  Sunny's relationship with Richie echoes a similar situation with Parker's other character Jesse Stone.  Parker fans will experience a lot of deja vu with &quot;Perish Twice,&quot; but it's still a fairly enjoyable read.	2000-10-05
US	49903185	R1W8YZDREF91I3	0440222842	151373951	Five Days in Paris	Books	2	0	0	N	N	&quot;Bridges of Madison County&quot; Danielle Steel style	You have to hand it to Danielle Steel--if bandwagon jumping was an Olympic event, she'd be Marion Jones.  This novel was so obviously influenced by &quot;The Bridges Of Madison County&quot; I'm surprised she didn't dedicate it to Robert James Waller.  Of course, since Ms. Steel cannot abide poverty (or even middle class), the book takes place in the swanky Paris Ritz instead of an Iowa farmhouse.  I gave it two stars because it's been a very long time since I laughed this hard reading a book.  Totally ludicrous and predictable--but, then again, what Danielle Steel book isn't?	2000-10-02
US	49903185	RFI94MUWL8YF2	0440223822	842292252	Outrage: The Five Reasons Why O.J. Simpson Got Away With Murder	Books	5	138	149	N	N	The definitive work on the Simpson trial/travesty	It stands to reason that Vincent Bugliosi, who wrote arguably the all-time best true crime work, &quot;Helter Skelter,&quot; would come out with by far the most comprehensive and thought-provoking book about the O.J. Simpson trial.  &quot;Outrage&quot; is aptly titled, for Bugliosi's prose fairly crackles with it as he outlines the numerous foul-ups, bungles, and media-playing episodes that allowed a man guilty of two heinous murders to walk free.  His hypothetical closing argument would have convinced even the most ardent Simpson supporter to convict.  Unfortunately, hypothetical is the operative word here.  Bugliosi is a brilliant attorney, an astute observer, and a sharp writer, all qualities admirably displayed in this book.  Even those with only the faintest interest in the Simpson circus will find this compelling reading--and grieve anew for the extreme injustice that was rendered unto Nicole Brown Simpson and Ronald Goldman.	2000-09-22
US	49903185	R186CZ0AER5D8T	0380726289	380093282	Darkness, Take My Hand: A Novel (Patrick Kenzie/Angela Gennaro Novels)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	What a mystery should be	If there were any justice in the world, Dennis Lehane's books would be  monster sellers.  Beautifully written sentences, a dead-on ear for  dialogue, the shadings of emotions so wrenching a dead man could feel them  . . . &quot;Darkness, Take My Hand&quot; is no exception.  Patrick and  Angie have already become beloved friends to me, and Lehane's eye for  detail can genuinely creep me out.  Lehane is also one of the very few  mystery writers who doesn't telegraph who the ultimate culprit is.   Definitely not for the light mystery reader, but Lehane ranks up there with  Parker and Paretsky.  Great, great stuff!	2000-08-30
US	49903185	RHOC7F22EPQSI	0440217067	848489009	Enslaved	Books	3	23	27	N	N	If you must read Virginia Henley, this is the best one	Virginia Henley's novels are, like most in the romance genre, highly  predictable--outspoken, beautiful heroines a little too modern for their  surroundings, handsome, dark-haired alpha males who are unbelievably  stubborn and narrow minded, and miscommunication as plot advancement--and  let's not forget the sex scenes!  However, &quot;Enslaved&quot; is just a  cut above Ms. Henley's usual historical erotica, because she tones down  everything just a bit.  The scenes in Roman-controlled Britain are  surprisingly well-written, and her hero, Marcus, is acually--gasp!--a  sympathetic character.  Diana is a typical Henley heroine (we know she has  violet eyes, Virginia, you don't have to keep telling us), but again, a  little toned down so as to be sympathetic as well.  In short, a good story,  a decent plot, an inventive setting.  If you're an occasional romance  reader, this is a good one with which to while away a rainy weekend.	2000-08-11
US	49903185	R3GVCUT4D85VFY	0440212561	983256815	Outlander	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Escapist fiction at its best	After hearing several friends and relatives rave about &quot;Outlander,&quot; I picked it up.  Two pages into the book, I could understand the raves.  The time travel storyline has been done before, but  for the first time, at least to me, Diana Gabaldon presents it  intelligently, and with a realistic, worth-rooting-for heroine like Claire  Randall.  Gabaldon obviously did her research, and it shows admirably  without beating the reader over the head with obscure facts.  The writing  meanders a tiny bit, but overall &quot;Outlander&quot; will rivet your  interest from beginning to end.  A great start to an intriguing series!	2000-07-26
US	49903185	R2KSWYAA5ZMM23	0316107417	196024331	Happy Trails	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A fitting end to one of the greatest strips	It is a testament to the talents of Berke Breathed that well over ten years after he suspended &quot;Bloom County,&quot; it is still sorely missed by its legions of fans, myself included.  Once described as  &quot;Doonesbury with animals,&quot; &quot;Bloom County&quot; took on a  life of its own, and what a life it was.  &quot;Happy Trails&quot; consists  of strips from the County's last year, and all the familiar characters are  here--Opus, Bill, Steve Dallas, Cutter John, Milo, and Hodgepodge--as well  as a couple of new characters who would star in Breathed's follow-up strip  &quot;Outland.&quot;  Breathed's observations are dead on, and the strips  will often have you thinking--once you get enough oxygen back to your brain  after laughing so hard.  With the possible exception of  &quot;Dilbert,&quot; no comic today has the fan loyalty that &quot;Bloom  County&quot; did--and now that Charles Schultz is no longer with us, I  doubt any will again.	2000-07-22
US	49903185	R3MC5TST1IAKL9	0060191821	796925803	Worst Fears Realized	Books	1	2	5	N	N	There's an apt title for you	Having read another Stone Barrington book, &quot;Dead In The Water&quot;, and not being that impressed by it, I hesitated when a friend offered me this and raved about it.  However, my print addiction won out, and I opened  it up.  Stone Barrington is one of those characters that seem too perfect  to be true--rich, handsome, a babe magnet, and an astute detective to boot.   The more I read, the less I liked him.  It is the rare book that I don't  finish, but &quot;Worst Fears Realized&quot; is one of them.  Granted,  Woods writes with a lightning pace, but he sacrifices character and plot  development to achieve that speed.  The result is a cardboard cutout with  occasional bouts of repugnant violence and pedestrian sex.	2000-07-21
US	49903185	R3E81W5Y35UF47	0553107232	49203696	Tough Cookie	Books	2	1	3	N	N	Nice, sweet little mystery with some interesting recipes	I've read several of Diane Mott Davidson's Goldy Schultz mysteries, and find that they run along the same trail--someone gets murdered, and Goldy divides her time between investigating the murder and whipping up delicious  food.  &quot;Tough Cookie&quot; is no great departure from the formula.   Everyone has their roles to play, and play them they do--from Goldy's  brassy friend Marla to Goldy's abusive ex-husband (whose menacing  appearances often jarringly distract from the rest of the story, which  despite the murders and other goings-on tend to be quite fluffy).  Why  anyone would want to live in Aspen Meadows, which must have the highest  per-capita murder rate in America judging by the books, is beyond me!   Still, a pleasant read for those who like their murder mysteries on the  lighter side.  Good recipes, too.	2000-07-20
US	49903185	RR9J6A3F7UBZR	0688172032	616949727	The Day John Died	Books	1	6	13	N	N	A shameless exercise in exploitation	Christopher Andersen seems to have found his niche writing wildly speculative and ultimately laughable books about people famous for either marrying or being related to other famous people who die in accidents and  have entire issues of PEOPLE magazine devoted to them afterwards.  Let's be  honest here--John Kennedy Jr.'s position in this world was strictly an  accident of birth and genetics.  Nothing against him personally, and it's  always a tragedy when a person dies before their time no matter what the  circumstance, but enough already!	2000-07-20
US	49903185	R2AIVBR9FQY3Y9	0439139597	517423309	Harry Potter And The Goblet Of Fire (Book 4)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Harry's growing up	&quot;Goblet of Fire&quot; is by far the longest and mostcomplex of the Harry Potter series, not to mention the darkest--whichis why it's also the best.  J.K. Rowling is clearly seeking an older audience (or, more likely, is mindful that adults as well as children devour Harry's adventures), and the result is a novel that has some genuinely horrific scenes...  At times, it's almost as if Rowling handed the manuscript over to Clive Barker and said, &quot;Here, why don't you have a go at it?&quot; Parents of littler Muggles may want to take a look at the book before passing it on--although it's not graphic, there is more violence in this than the other books, and there is some mild profanity, mostly the d-word.  For older fans, this will be but a whetting of the appetite for Book 5.  Rowling is on top of her game (some of the descriptions of the Quidditch World Cup game are hysterically funny, while the darker moments, namely the trials of those involved with He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named, are exquisitely poignant) and only promises to get better.  For once, the product justifies the hype!	2000-07-16
US	49903185	RW43DPE8YPFV6	0446357170	741781121	Chances (Lucky Santangelo Saga)	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Collins' most ambitious work	Undoubtedly influenced by the success of Judith Krantz, Jackie Collins turned her hand to the family saga with &quot;Chances,&quot; which, unlike her previous novels, actually attempted to go a little deeper than  strung-together intervals of sex in exotic places and inventive use of  profanity.  The result is a really good Jackie Collins novel, which  translates into &quot;slightly better than mediocre.&quot;  Collins has  never been much for character development, but compared to some of her  other novels &quot;Chances&quot; is &quot;War and Peace.&quot;  A great  beach read still, as is its sequel, &quot;Lucky,&quot; despite the dated  outlook.	2000-07-05
US	49903185	REXZX3AUJZUHN	0812930304	491306095	Diana in Search of Herself: Portrait of a Troubled Princess	Books	5	36	42	N	N	A sad, compelling portrait of a media superstar	The world loves a princess, particularly if that princess is tall, blond, and beautiful, with a shy smile and sweet public manners.  Nearly three years after her untimely death, opinions are still sharply divided on  Princess Diana, and &quot;Diana In Search Of Herself&quot; will undoubtedly  divide them even more.  Sally Bedell Smith provides arguably the most  balanced view of a woman who seems to have been very unbalanced.  Mercurial  at best, borderline psychotic at worst, Diana whirled through her  superstardom like a child unable to choose which toy to play with next.   Smith admirably documents Diana's love/hate affair with the media, the  manipulations of her children, particularly Prince William, and her  desperate search for the peace she herself seems to have pushed away with  both hands.  If there was ever a human being who personified the old  cliche, &quot;Be careful what you wish for,&quot; it was Diana.  Diana  worshippers loathe this book--their goddess could never have feet of  clay--but for the rest of us, it is ultimately a sobering portrait of a  woman whose beauty and wealth could not save her from herself.	2000-07-05
US	49903185	R326U5TY5ZG88L	0671023489	953350768	Lucky (Lucky Santangelo)	Books	3	1	4	N	N	One of Collins' two best	&quot;Lucky,&quot; along with its prequel, &quot;Chances,&quot; are the two best novels that Jackie Collins ever wrote.  Collins will never be mistaken for Toni Morrison any time in the near future, but in her day she  excelled in the fast-paced glitzy beach read.  Of course, as in all of her  novels, Collins wastes minimal time with character development and plot  lucidity, but when she is on the ball, as she is with &quot;Lucky&quot; and  &quot;Chances,&quot; you're being pulled along so fast you don't really  care.  Unfortunately, the pop novel has changed, and Collins hasn't.  But  in her heyday in the mid '80's, no one could touch her.	2000-07-05
US	49903185	RJZ4YT5UZ6AD8	0812930304	491306095	Diana in Search of Herself: Portrait of a Troubled Princess	Books	5	4	6	N	N	A sad, compelling portrait of a media superstar	The world loves a princess, particularly if that princess is tall, blond, and beautiful, with a shy smile and sweet public manners.  Nearly three years after her untimely death, opinions are still sharply divided on  Princess Diana, and &quot;Diana In Search Of Herself&quot; will undoubtedly  divide them even more.  Sally Bedell Smith provides arguably the most  balanced view of a woman who seems to have been very unbalanced.  Mercurial  at best, borderline psychotic at worst, Diana whirled through her  superstardom like a child unable to choose which toy to play with next.  Smith admirably documents Diana's love/hate affair with the media, the  manipulations of her children, particularly Prince William, and her  desperate search for the peace she herself seems to have pushed away with  both hands.  If there was ever a human being who personified the old  cliche, &quot;Be careful what you wish for,&quot; it was Diana.  Diana  worshippers loathe this book--their goddess could never have feet of  clay--but for the rest of us, it is ultimately a sobering portrait of a  woman whose beauty and wealth could not save her from herself.	2000-07-05
US	49903185	R15GTI6HFD75N8	0375700757	11590154	Cold Mountain: A Novel	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Beautiful writing, marred slightly by the ending	For the sheer pleasure of gorgeous writing, nothing I've read recently can top &quot;Cold Mountain.&quot;  With exquisite care and careful choosing of his words, Charles Frazier recreates the Civil War-era Smoky Mountains and  its people so vividly you are transported in time to walk beside Inman on  his journey home, or to help Ada and Ruby make a go of the farm.  It is not  a cheerful book, but the Civil War was not a cheerful time.  My only  quibble was with the pat made-for-the-movies ending.  If the reader can  overlook that, he/she will be rewarded.  This is one of the rare books to  be savored over a long rainy weekend.  And sorry, naysayers, it does  deserve all of its awards.	2000-07-05
US	49903185	R2QSMUD8WBQN1R	0385324138	425535400	The Outlandish Companion	Books	2	53	73	N	N	Love the series, but was this necessary?	Call me cynical, but &quot;The Outlandish Companion&quot; strikes an odd chord in me.  Yes, the books are great, but do you really need to know Jamie and Claire's horoscopes, not to mention the minutiae of very minor  characters' lives?  The books, although lengthy, are not that hard to  follow.  I'm sure Ms. Gabaldon had fun putting this together, but it smacks  of time buying and audience baiting.  It's been three years since  &quot;Drums of Autumn,&quot; and despite predictions &quot;Fiery  Cross&quot; is nowhere in sight.  If you're an absolute diehard Jamie and  Claire fan, this is a must have (and you probably already do).  We more  patient sorts will wait for &quot;Fiery Cross.&quot;	2000-07-04
US	49903185	R25RSXEUQGW7QP	0375409084	71254966	Gertrude and Claudius	Books	2	5	11	N	N	Interesting premise, badly executed	So how did Hamlet get to be the Melancholy Prince?  John Updike explores the events leading to the start of Shakespeare's best-known play, starting with Gertrude's arranged marriage to Hamlet's father and following into her  affair with the man who becomes Claudius.  Hamlet (alternately known as  Ambleth or Hamblet--depending on what part of the book you're in, Updike  changes the spelling of the characters names, a device obviously intended  to be clever that just becomes annoying after a while) is rarely seen, but  discussed quite frequently.  Updike, unfortunately for the casual reader,  is the type of literary writer that believes where one sentence could be  sufficient, three pages would be even better, and  Gertrude/Gerutha/Geruthe's story gets lost in all the convoluted, lofty  language.  Shakespeare fans will either love it or loathe it, but unless  you want to be lulled to sleep on your blanket, it's not a beach read.	2000-06-03
US	49903185	R35S791UWXAW5B	0345430689	910499104	The Goose Is Loose	Books	3	1	1	N	N	GOOOOOOSE!	Reading Goose Gossage's autobiography brought back happy memories of my teenaged Yankee-worshipping self, who knew that when #54 stepped onto the mound, good things were about to happen.  Gossage's tales about his 22  years in baseball are sometimes ribald and often laugh-out-loud funny.   However, longtime Yankee fans will be heavily reminded of Gossage's  predecessor Sparky Lyle's brilliant and hysterically funny autobiography  &quot;The Bronx Zoo&quot;--the writing style is extremely similar.  But  what the heck--Gossage doesn't have to be John Updike.  He just rears back  and throws, and the result is a very pleasant read.  See you in  Cooperstown, Goose!	2000-06-03
US	49903185	R9GX0XCGMQWNM	0312244207	952114862	The Secret Wife of King George IV	Books	1	7	11	N	N	Warning--this book is not what you think!	I picked this up because I enjoy historical novels and love to discover new authors.  The story of Maria Fitzherbert, documented as being married to George IV of England but kept secret due to her Catholicism, is a  fascinating one, and one that, in the right hands, would make for splendid  reading.  However, this is not an historical novel--it is an historical  romance, with all the heavy breathing, stilted dialogue, and  overdescription typical of the genre.  My mistake was not looking at the  back cover and seeing the glowing reviews from romance publications.  If  you like historical romances, you'll probably enjoy this one.  All others,  steer clear!	2000-06-03
US	49903185	R22IZHN9XDR3OK	0312203039	442694342	High Five (Stephanie Plum, No. 5) (Stephanie Plum Novels)	Books	3	3	6	N	N	Great series, so-so entry	Hailing from the Garden State myself, I've known many women like the resourceful Stephanie Plum (and admit to sporting the big hair and eyeliner look myself on occasion . . .).  I've been hooked on this series since &quot;One For The Money&quot;--Janet Evanovich has a deft touch with  dialogue, and many of the scenes are laugh-out-loud funny.  However,  &quot;High Five&quot; shows the first signs that the series might be  running out of steam--many of the scenes are retreads from the earlier  books, albeit with different names.  And suddenly Ranger is in the picture  as a romantic interest for Stephanie?  Here's hoping &quot;High Five&quot;  is just a speed bump, rather than the start of something bad.	2000-04-30
US	49903185	R2PYQ6F0D6BMES	0553572997	501395694	The Alienist	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Loved it!	I bought this on my brother's recommendation, read two pages, and knew I was going to be up all night with it!  Caleb Carr's period details are stunning, the characters well-rounded, and the storyline top-notch.  Don't  listen to the naysayers who say this novel is a Victorian &quot;Silence of  The Lambs&quot;--it's not really all that bloody, and the juxtaposition of  psychology and Victorian mores and ideas is fascinating.  An absolute must  for any historical fan--or mystery fan, for that matter.  How good is this  book?  My husband, who normally doesn't read for pleasure, absolutely  devoured this book and demanded I buy him his own copy--he's re-read it  three times!  That, my friends, should be proof enough for you.	2000-04-01
US	49903185	R2ZNWKZ1QH9G7D	055356451X	636592968	Night Sins (Deer Lake)	Books	3	0	2	N	N	A little light reading, despite the subject matter	Tami Hoag made her living writing romance novels before she switched her focus, and it shows in &quot;Night Sins&quot;.  Raise your hand if you knew Megan and Mitch would end up sleeping together!  Her descriptions are  romance novel stock-in-trade, and the plot was predictable.  Hoag's  strength, however, is in her dialogue--she knows what she's doing there,  and that's what kept me reading.  Romance readers looking for a step up can  start with Tami Hoag--a nice beach or plane read.	2000-04-01
US	49903185	R1GFZP8VMF6BLC	0425148297	587976494	Naked in Death (In Death, Book 1)	Books	2	21	30	N	N	Good premise, but that's it	A cop in 2058 New York?  Bring on the gadgets!  Eve Dallas is a good character, and if Ms. Roberts wasn't a romance novelist this could have been a heck of a series.  But since she is, she brings in Roarke, the  mysterious Daniel Day-Lewis clone Irish billionaire (yeah, I bet New York  street cops run into them EVERY day), who proceeds to promptly destroy any  credibility Ms. Roberts had going with the story.  As much as I hate to  admit it, I've read every book in the series (before I gave up reading  romance and &quot;romantic suspense&quot; in disgust).  All you'll get is  futuristic gadgetry combined with mundane murders and pedestrian sex  scenes.  Hey, Nora, just a bit of advice--even the most in-love couples  don't have mind-blowing sex every time.  Bottom line--Nora Roberts fans  will and do adore this series, others beware!	2000-04-01
US	49903185	RW1KYHZYZPLZW	0345416619	426738597	How Few Remain	Books	3	0	1	N	N	Interesting, but too long	This was my first exposure to Harry Turtledove, and overall it wasn't a bad one.  Some of the characters are cliches, but I did enjoy his conjecture of Lincoln.  However, this book, as all others of Mr.  Turtledove's novels I have read, suffers from overkill--he could have left  out at least a third of it without harming the story at all.  Still, I'd  recommend it, particularly to readers who enjoy lighter historical novels.	2000-04-01
US	49903185	R2X1GKQR60SZ5T	0345427637	327814320	The Angel of Darkness	Books	4	25	26	N	N	A worthy sequel	&quot;A sequel to 'The Alienist'?  YES! &quot;  I actually shouted that out loud in a library when I was told about &quot;The Angel of Darkness.&quot;  Again, Caleb Carr paints an intricate portrait of Golden  Age New York, and brings back all the great characters from &quot;The  Alienist,&quot; utilizing a unique twist in changing his narrator from  society reporter John Moore to the street-smart Stevie Taggert, whose  less-than-perfect grammar doesn't obscure his keen observations.  Again,  Carr utilizes real-life historical figures, most notably a young Clarence  Darrow, to bring authenticity to the story of a female child-murderer and  the investigation that brings her heinous crimes to light.  So why only  four stars?  Those of you who have read Ann Rule's &quot;Small  Sacrifices&quot; will see a lot of Diane Downs in murderer Libby Hatch--in  fact, Carr cites Rule's book as an influence.  Overall, though, a great  sequel--can't wait for the next one!	2000-04-01
US	49903185	R30ZJSFO4SGB94	0345427637	327814320	The Angel of Darkness	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A worthy sequel	&quot;A sequel to 'The Alienist'?  YES! &quot;  I actually shouted that out loud in a library when I was told about &quot;The Angel of Darkness.&quot;  Again, Caleb Carr paints an intricate portrait of Golden  Age New York, and brings back all the great characters from &quot;The  Alienist,&quot; utilizing a unique twist in changing his narrator from  society reporter John Moore to the street-smart Stevie Taggert, whose  less-than-perfect grammar doesn't obscure his keen observations.  Again,  Carr utilizes real-life historical figures, most notably a young Clarence  Darrow, to bring authenticity to the story of a female child-murderer and  the investigation that brings her heinous crimes to light.  So why only  four stars?  Those of you who have read Ann Rule's &quot;Small  Sacrifices&quot; will see a lot of Diane Downs in murderer Libby Hatch--in  fact, Carr cites Rule's book as an influence.  Overall, though, a great  sequel--can't wait for the next one!	2000-04-01
US	49903185	RH00DSL2EJZ38	0446607878	166601071	Coq Au Vin (Nanette Hayes Mysteries)	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Yes, yes, Nanette!	Move over Kinsey and V.I--here comes Nanette Hayes, the most interesting female protagonist in a mystery I've come across in a long time!  Charlotte Carter has a razor-sharp ear for dialogue, and many lines had me laughing  out loud.  Nanette is sharp, witty, and, like the rest of us, screwed  up--and a heck of a sax player to boot!  Mark my words--Charlotte Carter is  definitely a talent to watch.	2000-04-01
US	49903185	R1VT3ZO8OB4AFP	0380775735	294488754	The Game (The de Warenne Dynasty)	Books	3	1	4	N	N	Not bad	I heard about Brenda Joyce for years, but &quot;The Game&quot; was the first novel of hers I read.  Unlike most romance novelists, Ms. Joyce actually knows how to put a sentence together, which makes this tired old storyline work.  Katherine was kind of sappy, but other than that the book  wasn't bad.	2000-03-19
US	49903185	R7UV659YBL9TB	0590353403	667539744	Harry Potter And The Sorcerer's Stone	Books	5	0	0	N	N	You don't have to be a kid to love Harry Potter	I haven't been a child for quite some time (I'm 33), but I know I'm not the only adult who's read and loved this book.  J.K. Rowling is the heir apparent to Roald Dahl, who had the same gift for imaginative stories and  vivid characters that Rowling has.  Also like Dahl, Rowling does not write  down to her young audience, which is why I and so many other grownups can  read it without cringing.  I literally laughed out loud many times while  reading this.  Friends have teased me about my love for Harry Potter (yes,  I own all three books and am anxiously awaiting the fourth), but I have  converted each and every one of them.  J.K. Rowling deserves every bit of  success she's received--she's created a character right up there with  Dorothy and Charlie!	2000-03-19
US	49903185	ROPT8P4IEZ3EQ	0061093491	802931571	Dead in the Water	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Not bad	A friend of mine gave this to me, and being the print addict that I am, I read it.  Interesting storyline, but Woods doesn't go very deeply into character development, except for when it's time to cook something.  A pleasant beach read, but that's about it.	2000-03-19
US	49903185	RHM4BYSXOW7CO	0446607568	928648620	The Red Zone	Books	3	0	1	N	N	Typical of the genre	My brother's been raving about Tim Green for ages, so I picked this up.  Green obviously has good insights on the NFL scene, but I found his characters too perfect and predictable (really, Tim, do you have to mention that Madison is beautiful in every other paragraph?), although the ending  was decent.  I've been told his earlier books are better, so I may read  those.  This one is okay, nothing more.	2000-03-19
US	49903185	RJDOQZPY67K1P	0440224225	185285708	Dream Lover	Books	1	10	17	N	N	Why do I keep reading Virginia Henley!	To be honest, I don't expect much from Virginia Henley.  Erotica with some historical references thrown in is her forte.  &quot;Dream Lover&quot; was absolute drek from start to finish.  It's obvious that she writes for herself, and apparently she likes abusive men.  Every time I pick up one of  her books, I feel like the kid in that joke about the optimist locked in  the room with a pile of horse manure.  Unfortunately for Ms. Henley, I have  yet to find the pony.  P.S.  Was I the only one who noticed that Emerald's  repeated dream about Sean was couched in the exact same phrases every time?   &quot;'Sean, Sean,', she whispered with heart-scalding hunger.&quot;   AARRGGHHH!	2000-03-19
US	49903185	R2E7U23MIPRU1Z	0843943289	280456997	Sheik	Books	1	4	25	N	N	Oh, please!	The only reason I read this was because I was deathly bored and there was nothing else available.  One of the many reasons I no longer read romance--how many times can the harem storyline be used!   I don't expect much from romance, but women who read and like this should wonder why they  get little to no respect.  This book is housewife porn, plain and simple.	2000-03-19
US	49903185	R39H9OM3L1CZSU	0345360338	74059498	Falls the Shadow	Books	5	37	40	N	N	Great, as always	Again, Sharon Kay Penman proves she owns the historical novel.  The great thing about this trilogy (&quot;Shadow&quot; is the second, preceded by &quot;Here Be Dragons&quot; and followed by &quot;The Reckoning&quot;) is  that each book can be read alone without having to refer to the others.  I  particularly enjoy her handling of sensitive issues, such as the rampant  anti-Semitism that existed during that time--the scene between Simon de  Montfort and a rabbi who begs mercy after the Jewish ghetto in London is  destroyed on the basis of rumor that gold is hidden there is an absolute  triumph.  A lesser writer would have had de Montfort and the rabbi become  best friends, but Penman sets up a conflict in the mind of de Montfort that  allows him to appreciate the rabbi's intelligence while damning him for not  being a Christian and trying to convert the rabbi on the spot.  Readers who  like their historical novels fluffy think Penman's work is too violent, but  she is simply the best at what she does.	2000-03-18
US	49903185	R1K69H5JPZS57R	0684856921	325476823	The Food Bible	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Jolly good book!	Extremely informative and attractively laid out.  Excellent for those who don't have the slightest clue how to put together a healthy diet (like me, once upon a time).  Lots of interesting recipes as well.  The only drawback  is that the author is British and originally aimed this book at the UK  market, so you'd better brush up on your metric skills for the recipes!   Also, I've never understood the English love for beans on toast, although  I've tried it and it's not half bad.  If you're just starting to read about  nutrition, this book is an excellent place to start.	2000-03-18
US	49903185	R15GFV7RU2FVZT	0345335066	268223193	Adora	Books	4	1	2	N	N	One of her two best	Originally published in the early 80's, &quot;Adora&quot; is much more readable and much less sex-driven than many of Ms. Small's later works.  Theodora is as well-rounded a character as you'll find in these types of  books, although as usual Ms. Small finds a way for her heroine to sleep  with &quot;forbidden fruit&quot; so that Theodora can hook up with the  handsome pirate Alexander.  Glad to see this is out in paperback again.	2000-03-18
US	49903185	R26KS4B0HAKSWL	0312155859	309178067	Mary Queen of Scotland and The Isles: A Novel	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Enjoyable, if a bit long	After having tackled Henry VIII, Margaret George turns her considerable talents to the story of Mary Queen of Scots, with mixed results.  George herself admits in the author's note that she had to make a lot of educated  guesses about events, so those of you looking for historical accuracy will  probably be disappointed.  The story zooms through Mary's life up until her  incarceration by Elizabeth I, then it gets a bit tedious.  Overall though,  a good introduction to this often maligned queen.	2000-03-18
US	49903185	R11I6FVBRIU415	0345378881	968450843	The Reckoning (Welsh Princes)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A great ending to a great trilogy	Sharon Kay Penman is simply the best historical novelist out there.  &quot;The Reckoning,&quot; like its predecessors &quot;Here Be Dragons&quot; and &quot;Falls The Shadow,&quot; is a triumph of incredible  writing, a tight (and historically accurate) plot, and a sense of being  there that is so strong you forget it's been 600 years since these events.   I have recommended Penman to so many people I've lost count.  A must for  any historical fan (although romance fans will NOT like the less-than-happy  ending--but that's life).	2000-03-18
US	49903185	R3OR35ZV0N3US5	0440206243	476962552	The Dragon and the Jewel (Medieval Plantagenet Trilogy)	Books	1	16	20	N	N	If you're desperate . . .	When you read historical romance, you know what you're going to get.  It's obvious Virginia Henley has a great time writing her books, but she can and does take enormous liberties with history, namely compression.  The events  described in this book took place over a thirty-year period--she compresses  it into maybe three (God forbid her heroine should approach thirty!).  If  you want to read a much better novel about Simon de Montfort and Eleanor  Plantagenet, I strongly recommend Sharon Kay Penman's &quot;Falls The  Shadow.&quot;  Okay, maybe the sex isn't as interesting, but Penman isn't  afraid to let her characters grow old.	2000-03-18
US	49903185	R2L2AMREDRROLJ	0345382846	905379525	Here Be Dragons	Books	5	3	3	N	N	The start of a great trilogy	Most historical novelists tend to forget that Wales existed in the 12th century, other than for convenient raids.  Sharon Kay Penman evokes Wales so well you are there.  As always, she employs stunning research and a  sense of fairness, so even the much-maligned King John comes across as,  well, better than usual.  And her Llewelyn is a man to die for, flaws and  all.  History made entertaining without being shallow--that is Sharon Kay  Penman's niche.	2000-03-18
US	49903185	R1KK4IIUE1UINR	0312187459	237942375	The Memoirs of Cleopatra: A Novel	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Cleopatra's favorite biographer	Having managed to avoid reading much about Cleopatra before, I picked this up only because I enjoyed Margaret George's previous novels.  As with her debut &quot;The Autobiography of Henry VIII&quot;, Cleopatra tells her own  story through George's pen, proving that George is a master of the  first-person narrative (which made me wonder why &quot;Mary Queen Of  Scotland and The Isles&quot; was not in Mary's voice--would have made for a  better story, in my opinion).  Cleopatra is made of stronger stuff than  Mary, though, which makes this novel even more enjoyable to read.  Another  winner from Margaret George!	2000-03-18
US	49903185	R3AOS1LKB9DJIM	0380717077	9326692	The Fatal Crown	Books	1	50	66	N	N	Save your money	A badly written historical romance trying to disguise itself as an historical novel.  Ellen James takes a defining moment in English history--the struggle between Maude of Germany and Stephen of Blois for the  English throne--and turns it into a love story, even implying that Maude's  son Henry was fathered by Stephen and not her husband Geoffrey of Anjou!   Readers who know nothing of history may enjoy this, but for a much better  overview of these events read Sharon Kay Penman's &quot;When Christ and His  Saints Slept.&quot;	2000-03-18
US	49903185	R1FU5R0LTXY14Z	0345363132	74059498	The Sunne in Splendour	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Absolutely terrific!	Read this for the first time while recovering from a nasty bout of the flu, and instead of getting much needed rest sat up all night reading!  Sharon Kay Penman is probably the only novelist who presents Richard III in  a fair light.  Also, she is one of the few female writers I've read who can  write male characters extremely well.  Don't let the length of it (the  paperback is over nine hundred pages) keep you away--this is a truly great  book.	2000-03-18
US	49903185	R1EMVW1FSVH2AX	0345327853	186614616	Beloved	Books	4	1	1	N	N	If you must read Bertrice Small, read this book	&quot;Beloved&quot; is by far the best book Bertrice Small ever wrote.  Its history may be suspect (but hey, it's romance), but the story is highly entertaining and not as sex-driven as a lot of her other works.  Better  than any of the Skye O' Malley books, I'd recommend &quot;Beloved&quot; and  &quot;Adora&quot; to anyone.	2000-03-18
US	49903185	R24H1DUXY1GBZI	038529929X	313045692	Hannibal: A Novel	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Haunting, if sketchy	Unlike &quot;Red Dragon&quot; and &quot;The Silence of The Lambs&quot;, in &quot;Hannibal&quot; Thomas Harris tries to give some rationalization to Hannibal Lecter's behavior and illuminates some of the doctor's background.   Hannibal Lecter has to be one of the more fascinating characters in modern  literature, and this novel cements it.  Lecter is definitely a psychopath,  but he is not necessarily a monster--his favorite victims seem to be men  with their own sadistic/sociopathic tendencies, like Mason Verger, a victim  of Lecter's whose hunt for the doctor is an integral part of the plot.   Mason Verger is thoroughly despicable--we learn early on that he was a  child rapist, one of his victims being his own sister.  Harris obviously  wants the reader to think that Lecter did the world a favor by paralyzing  Verger (I won't mention what else the good doctor did).  Inspector Pazzi,  who discovers Lecter living in Florence and decides to turn him in for  Mason Verger's massive reward, is also presented as a glory-hungry  egomaniac who tries to regain his stature at all costs.  FBI Deputy  Director Paul Krenzler, with his harassment of Clarice Starling, cements a  place on Lecter's list as well.  This is Lecter's show, make no  mistake--Clarice Starling, the focus of &quot;The Silence of The  Lambs,&quot; is illuminated only by Lecter's interest in her.  I would have  liked to have read more about Lecter's background--the hints Harris drops  are fascinating, and I wouldn't be surprised if his next book really goes  into detail--but in the end even Harris' haunting, highly visual writing  can't save a very predictable ending.  This is definitely not a book for  the squeamish (I made the mistake of reading the part about Hannibal's last  victim while eating breakfast) but a lot of the language will stay with  you, and you'll never look at pigs quite the same way again.	2000-03-18
US	49903185	RSX0IY6MV48CV	0345396685	12198688	When Christ and His Saints Slept: A Novel	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Another great one	Sharon Kay Penman does it again with &quot;When Christ and His Saints Slept,&quot; proving that actual history is far more interesting than any plot!  Her characters are always three-dimensional, and she never relies on  cliches to speed her plot along.  She does tend to give more sympathy to  Maude than Stephen, but at least she doesn't have them sleeping together  like in other novels.  Again, another great SKP novel.	2000-03-18
US	49903185	R1CZVUPDRCXA51	0345323645	237942112	Skye O'Malley	Books	1	15	27	N	N	Yeah, right	How this (or any of the other books in this series) ever got to be considered a classic is beyond me.  I got the title for my review for the number of times I uttered that phrase while I was reading the book.  Like a  lot of Ms. Small's novels, the plot seems to be &quot;in how many weird  sexual situations can I embroil my heroine?&quot;  To paraphrase a great  saying, this book is sexually interesting, otherwise useless.	2000-03-18
US	49903185	R14DS8SU2ZQFD3	0399145664	105065636	Family Honor	Books	4	4	6	N	N	Welcome, Spike!	Why did Robert Parker give Sunny Randall (a daintier version of Spenser) her own book, other than to give Helen Hunt a job?  The best character in this book by far is Spike, the gay restaurateur/tough guy.  You have to  love a man so comfortable with himself that when he's asked how he can  bench-press 225 pounds, he nonchalantly replies, &quot;Fag power.&quot;   Parker could do amazing things with this character, but instead he  relegates Spike to Hawk status.  Don't get me wrong--Sunny's okay, but  Spike's the reason I'll continue reading this series.	2000-03-12
US	49903185	R35NJAGP4NPUT3	0380730359	165181769	Gone, Baby, Gone: A Novel	Books	5	2	2	N	N	WOW!	Any voracious reader will occasionally find themselves playing what I refer to as &quot;the library lottery&quot;--stand in the middle of the library's fiction section, let their gaze drift over the amassed titles, and just grab a book at random, hoping that their choice will be, at the very least, a few hours' diversion.  So it was one spring afternoon for me when my eyes fell upon &quot;Gone, Baby, Gone.&quot;  Dennis Lehane?  Hmm, never heard of him.  The cover blurb looked relatively interesting, and I do try to break out of my rut from time to time, so I brought it home.<br />Three pages into the book, I knew I had hit the literary equivalent of the jackpot.  <br />&quot;Gone ...&quot; is the third Lehane novel to feature private investigators Patrick Kenzie and Angie Gennaro, who are struggling with both their personal and professional lives together while they work to find a missing child.  As with Lehane's other Kenzie/Gennaro books, it's not necessary to have read others in the series to follow Patrick and Angie's past, although enough references are made to make the reader want to seek out what came before.  Lehane has one of the best feels for dialogue in modern fiction, and his plots are tight without being predictable.  To the best of my knowledge, I'm one of the few who discovered Dennis Lehane with this particular book (the book I most often hear cited is &quot;Darkness, Take My Hand,&quot; his second novel, which is also great).  If you've never read Dennis Lehane, you will not go wrong with this or any of his novels.  He's one of the best out there right now, and he's on the verge of becoming huge.	2000-03-12
US	49903185	R163XEA6MBLS6E	067088300X	221101137	The Girls' Guide to Hunting and Fishing	Books	1	4	10	N	N	Sorry--I'm not getting it	Just read this after several friends raved.  Oh boy--yet another whiny thirtysomething looking for love.  What an ORIGINAL concept . . .	2000-03-12
