US	49905029	R1VA4JAMUP346O	0060523875	870846652	The System of the World (The Baroque Cycle, Vol. 3)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Humour... Knowledge... Adventure... What else do you need?	And finally, sadly the Baroque Cycle draws to a conclusion. It's been a long journey starting with the wit and wry observations of life in the 17th century. We laughed as Daniel Waterhouse bumbled his way through life, servant to the savants. We gasped as Jack and Eliza fell in love and went their separate ways. We yawned as we followed Eliza's climb to fame, we ploughed through Jack's adventures on the high seas - all so we could read the last book! <br /> <br />For me, the highlight of this series has been Stephenson's humour as he tackled life unfolding around Waterhouse. Jack and Eliza were but padding. I was greatly relieved in this last book to find it just about all revolves around Waterhouse. But that doesn't mean the book isn't without flaws... <br /> <br />The story suddenly leap frogs into the 18th Century from where it ended in The Confusion, 25 years lost. Suddenly we are once again where Quicksilver started before mysteriously and inexplicably (at the time of reading) slipping back to the 17th Century. Suffice to say, it was just as disjointed suddenly leap frogging forward again at the start of the 3rd book! <br /> <br />In fact, I question why on earth we even bother to start off with Enoch Root knocking on Daniel Waterhouse's door in North America in Quicksilver, other than to establish Waterhouse as a character. But to then not refer to this incidence until 6-700 pages later - why I had completely forgotten Waterhouse came to the UK on the Minerva and several other minor details which although never important, were details anyway.  <br /> <br />It also felt like Stephenson, having written so much already, was now starting to run slightly out of steam. The marvelous oil painting of the absurd that he painted in Quicksilver has now been reduced to a warm watercolour of rich pastels in System of the World.  <br /> <br />Contrastingly, his characters have now become the opposite of what they were 25 years ago. Waterhouse, a mere observer and buffoon for the first 2 books is suddenly a very VERY spry and wise (or 'erudite' as he is called in this book) meddling old man! Eliza is just a bit player reduced to being little more than a rich damsel running around in  various modes of distress and Jack has become mysterious and secretive. Why on EARTH Jack and Eliza had not patched up their differences in 25 years and still making mad schemes to avoid and see eachother, I don't know. Logic breakdown. <br /> <br />But in the end, I loved this book. Like a space opera you don't want to end, I didn't want to finish this science historical opera. The humour may have been dimmed, but it was still there. Stephenson still delivers some priceless comments, observations and mental imagery. It took me about 6 weeks to read the first book, 4 months to read the next (I read stuff inbetween...) but it only took a week to finish it off. Stephenson delivers enough page turning action and humour to keep the reader enthralled for the entire length of the book. <br /> <br />If you read the first two books, then you're definetely going to love the pace and life in this book! Enjoy the end to this great trilogy!	2005-06-09
US	49905029	R1DVKUDEXO1ZNB	0060523867	783016934	The Confusion (The Baroque Cycle, Vol. 2)	Books	3	3	4	N	N	A long plod	I really liked the first book in this series, but to give you an idea on this book, it took me about 3 months to read (as I kept on picking up other things to read...). It also took about 300 pages to get into this one and finally retain a level of interest worthy of not taking a break to read something else. <br /> <br />Why the change of pace as I read the first book quite speedily? Probably because of the change of focus. The first book dealt a lot with the slightly naive and stubborn Daniel Waterhouse. Stephenson's depictions of the absurd life of scientist experimenting with their craft in an era of absurd fashions and fear of the church were priceless. He was dry, witty and utterly, utterly readable. <br /> <br />In this book, he changes emphasis to focus on the Jack/Eliza angle. Except Jack and Eliza have more or less gone their seperate ways. So, the first half of the book is largely devoted to Eliza with some minor tributes to Jack. Now, I'm all for championing women in this era when they were supposed to be delicate and suffering attacks of the vapours, but it got awfully tedious reading about Eliza's clever machinations of the male species and financial institutions around her, divulged largely through letters to certain informers and fawners. Somehow, the dry wit that surround Waterhouse doesn't surround Eliza. So, that tale was merely interesting. And long. <br /> <br />The later part of the book picked up as the emphasis drifted to focusing on Jack and his scheming plans which take him around the world. Literally. The dry wit returns now, but considerably dimmed. However, the wild streak in Jack does make the story marginally more interesting. <br /> <br />I lament the near absenbce of Daniel Waterhouse in this book - scarcely a mention at all and his part in this grand tale is surely the most reminscent of the dry wit of Cryptonomicon.  <br /> <br />Because so much detail is given in this book, it is essential reading for the last book. But be prepared - it maybe a herculean task! Just remember, its worth it for those precious gems with Waterhouse or whenever Stephenson remembers to put in some of that dry wit!	2005-05-16
US	49905029	R287QXLVA89VU1	0297843710	690696114	Himalaya	Books	4	22	23	N	N	More polished, less interesting	In the beginning when Palin first stumbled into the travel documentary genre with \\"Around the world in 80 days,\\" I don't think anyone at the BBC realised what a money spinner this was going to become! So Palin's first couple of books where a real companion guide to the program - those books were HIS personal impressions including little gems of insight into the making of the show.    With Himalaya, it's like he handed over his diaries and someone else wrote them up, culling his personal observations and somehow the end result is Palin seems distant from his own diaries! Given how much he seemed to have enjoyed his romp through the Himalaya's in the DVD, you'd think the same enthusiasm would have been captured in his journal of the trip, but alas... Somehow its been blandified. A lot to references to the journey itself with a BBC crew in tow heading into politically trying areas would have made fascinating reading, but there is very little reference to it. Furthermore, there seems to be whole chunks of history dropped in as if someone thought they ought to pad out the entries with bits of historical triva. In places, this renders the book little more than just another travel novel.    Its still an interesting book, but somehow, the personal feel that existed in his first couple of travel books is missing. And having seen the show, there seems to have been more personal observations mentioned in the show than in the book! The daily entries absolutely fly by at supersonic speeds with hardly any mention of the people he is meeting - the same people which seemed to have made such an impact on him in the actual Himalaya program! In fact, the only place where the show and journals conincided was over his meeting with the Dali Lama - here at least, we learn of Palin's nervousness as the clock counts down to meeting this great man!    I still enjoyed this book, but not as much as the show or his original books and really felt it was more like reading anyone else's travel novel on the bookshelf. What made Palin different in the beginning was the insight it provided into making a program like this and he didn't dwell on historical snippets. Anyone with a bit of time, money and connections can make the journey Palin did and write about it, but few do it with a BBC crew in tow and with a Pythonesque viewpoint! That adds a whole layer of interest, humour and logistical complexity greatly downplayed in this book.	2005-04-27
US	49905029	R1UYWBVQO9XCTT	076531049X	632077509	The Boy Who Would Live Forever: A Novel of Gateway	Books	2	10	14	N	N	Pleasant read but where does it go????	Like many others, I too was thrilled to see Frederik Pohl was even still writing, let alone writing books about the Heechee saga, which I loved. So, I grabbed this book off the shelf - hard cover or not, this was a Heechee book! <br /> <br />But... Now I've read the book, I wonder just where exactly did Pohl intend to go with the book? It starts somewhere towards the end of the original Heechee sage books, but spends copious amounts of time summarising and rehashing the stuff from the previous novels - in case we have forgotten, I guess. Then finally we move on from refamiliarising ourselves with many of the old cast of characters and go... <br /> <br />Nowhere. I mean, the characters of yesteryear seem to be bland colourless carbon copies of themselves, the new characters seem to have barely been sketched out before being relegated to Bland Land. And despite a promising title, at the end of the day, I'm not even sure who the \\"boy\\" is, and if living for ever means having a baby, well... Hardly a revolutinary plot line! I believe that would imply we are all currently living forever right now as long as we procreate?! <br /> <br />Anyway, the book was a fun read, it was light, somewhat witty and not unbearable. But it was shallow, directionless, meaningless and with little plot. I can only hope that like the first Red Dwarf book that came out, this one is going to go somewhere in another book????	2005-04-26
US	49905029	R239KRVAVN52UT	0805075127	648916257	The Life and Death of Planet Earth: How the New Science of Astrobiology Charts the Ultimate Fate of Our World	Books	4	3	4	N	N	An entertaining and informative read	At the best of times, geology is probably a dry subject but the rewards for a story are great. Geology is a subject which has the capacity to incorporate just about any other branch of science - in an historical sense, and this is what Ward and Brownlee have set out to do! And the result is a fascinating example living up to Hutton's assessment, \\"The past is the key to the present\\" - and the future! <br /> <br />Combining their astrobiological and geological backgrounds enables Ward and Brownlee to examine recent research in both their disciplines to present a rather complete picture of how our planet evolved, and how it may end. For any geologist with an interest in SF, there may be very little new here. The only thing I was vaguely disappointed about was they didn't mention the role Antarctica plays in our current climate, preferring to attribute it all to the formation of the Himalayas. If there is anything that can be guaranteed in geology, it is that there is not one process acting at any one time causing things! <br /> <br />But that aside, I think the authors shone brilliantly at describing everything in a way which easily conjures up the imagery in your mind without being too verbose. Sometimes they use anologies, but most of the time, they used facts - and current facts as well! Kudos as well for looking into space for some speculation on what will happen to our planet - and galaxy - and how it impacts on life.(Would have liked to have had mention of our solar system bobbing up and down through the galactic plane and ice age/asteroid impact through time, but alas...) <br /> <br />I think the book only fell down towards the end there where they got a little bit waffly and little bit negative. Sure, they say, we are scientists and it is us who are reasonable and logical while Science Fiction is for the unrealistic, but... I still think humans have a long way to go with science and who knows what new twists in physics we'll unearth. Afterall, at one time, black holes didn't exits, then when they were proven to exist, nothing escaped their gravity well, and then even that got recently recanted. Just like in geology there are many process which result in an outcome, there are undoubtedly many more refinements to the laws of physics waiting to be discovered. At least the authors put forward some good ideas, even if they tended to rubbish them... <br /> <br />Overall though, a very interesting book; it paints a decent 'unifying' picture for those with an earth science interest, and it is simply fascinating and very understandable for those who are simply interested in science!	2005-04-25
US	49905029	R2GCM6G50V8ZFM	0380977427	727370009	Quicksilver (The Baroque Cycle, Vol. 1)	Books	4	13	13	N	N	Delightful in its absurdity	I am no stranger to the meganovels so size doesn't daunt me. I also enjoyed Neal Stephenson's previous novels and have recently become faintly interested in the history of science - and maybe that's where people are approaching these books slightly wrong... They shouldn't be viewed as historical novels giving you a snapshot into the world ca. 1600-1750, we are being given a warm and witty snapshot into one of the most exciting times in history - when science began to break away from religion and the throne! <br /> <br />And despite a slow start to this novel, Stephenson has done a brilliant job of capturing the absurdity of scientific research of this era! Maybe for the first 50-60 pages, I to struggled to work out where this was going, but once it breaks away from the enigmatic Enoch Root (presumably the same time-travelling Enoch of Cryptonomicon) this books takes off! I really found myself laughing out loud at some of the descriptions of fashion and experiments - but all probably very legit at the time.  <br /> <br />It is so hard to believe in this day and age that we didn't know we could only transfuse blood between two people with the same RH factors etc. And Stephenson does a brilliant job of conveying this with a dry humour which we can only afford because we are living 300 years on and these facts are ingrained in us! But back then, you were an outcast to be questioning the church, frequently killed for it, but these ernest men continued their research and experiments no matter what! <br /> <br />The language in the book is different from that of Cryptonomicon, but the dry humour and observations made by the lead characters are similar. I'm glad that Stephenson transported his wonderful dry characters back through time by using the same lineage! <br /> <br />I admit I struggle to think who I would personally recommend this book to - but the obvious contenders are those who enjoyed Cryptonomicon and people who are just generally into science. Like all mega novels of this scale, it is a little slow to get into, but also like all mega novels of this scale - persever past the first 100 pages and you'll find yourself being sucked into one of the most delightful romps through science and history!	2004-10-03
US	49905029	R1ONY3KOPRMUR0	0441011268	339809933	Heirs Of Earth	Books	5	3	7	N	N	Fabulous finale	What a fitting end! Although I felt the trilogy got off to bit of a rocky start with the first book, I loved the second book because it was filled with characters who you could relate to instead of the usual angst filled ones that you just want to knock some sense into. To this end, Dix and Williams were faithful to not falling into that trap.<br />This last book dealt with some pretty mind boggling issues fairly satisfactorily as far as I was concerned - although all humans but one wiped out and just engrams surviving of a few select humans seems a bit weird. But, as was pointed out - it was starting to come down to those who like their organic form and those that like the inorganic, so its entirely possible in this scenario that the human race was going to diverge down these avenues anyway! Loved the way that was put in the book. I also felt the bizarreness of the aliens they were dealing with was dealth with very very very well. This isn't a book that leaves you feeling cheated!<br />For really good hard core science fiction with a genuine plot and believable (but not necessarily loveable) characters, this is one of the best SF trilogies to come out in years. The only other author who is even remotely on par with this right now is Peter F Hamilton's Nights Dawn trilogy. Space opera at its best!	2004-05-19
US	49905029	RKU0BVS75XOJW	0226743446	412804227	A Division of Spoils (Repr of 1975 Ed) (Raj Quartet/Paul Scott, 4) (Phoenix Fiction)	Books	5	15	17	N	N	Last book in series the best	Anyone reading the reviews for the previous 3 books, knows I have struggled to read these series. However, Scott absolutely redeemed himself with this final book.<br />The first book focused on the British occupation of India during WWII and introduced us to the &quot;Manners&quot; case - the only interesting bit in a book that had long waffly passages describing India. Who needs to read a history book? This book would have done it... The 2nd book focused more on the &quot;Layton's&quot; and was much more readable as it was the changing India as seen through the eyes of a few key characters. The 3rd book was a boring repetition of the 2nd book and this last book, about the end of the British occupation and WWII was just brilliant!<br />Like his much more enjoyable 2nd book, this one is told almost exclusively through the eyes of key characters we met in previous books - and it introduces us to the rakish charm of Guy Perron. I always remember Charles Dance's interpretation of Guy Perron in the BBC series making a strong impression on me, but I found the character in the book even more engaging. <br />This last book in the series was absolutely stunning and made persevering through the whole series somewhat worth it. I say somewhat, because it has been a real trial getting through the denser parts of Books I and III and I wouldn't push this series on anyone, even though the last book is a literary accomplishment. <br />I try to think if this book is readable without having read the previous books, and although I suspect it is (Scott continues to go back over vast chunks of history from someone else's point of view), it would be a shallow interpretation without the reader gaining all the knowledge from the first 3 books.	2003-10-01
US	49905029	R2AZH7TU52OKEJ	0226743403	605161724	The Jewel in the Crown (The Raj Quartet, Book 1)	Books	2	18	41	N	N	Endless verbage and too little plot	I adored the BBC film that was made out of the Raj Quartet books and felt it might be time to read the books. I bought them two years ago and only through sheer perseverance have I managed to get through the 3rd book.<br />I have to step back and admimt this book was written in a 'different era' - I'm not sure if it would have ever made it through the editors today... Or maybe its my Generation-X tolerances... However, Scott spends endless long long looooonnngggg paragraphs (of the half page to two page paragraph variety) painting microscopically detailed pictures of India around WWII, the time British imperialism began to crumble.<br />I can't fault Scott with his descriptions, but it is very hard to read such large paragraphs. It also got tiring - there is only so many times you can describe a road or a house before one's eyes begin to glaze. The book also seems unable to focus on a way to tell the story. So one minute we may be seeing the collapse of India through a first person account, and then inexplicably, with nothing more than an asterix or a double break between paragraphs (even THAT couldn't be consistant!), the same story is being told in third person.<br />This book really begins the Raj Quartet by spending 3/4s painting the picture of what India was like just before WWII. However, the readable story that emerges is on the tale of Daphne Manners and her English-raised Indian lover. This book didn't really pick up until we got to this love affair - well over half way through. It is not hard to see why it became the focus of the BBC series...<br />This is not the easiest of books to read and will take a lot of perseverance for most I imagine. I am a voracious reader and have read other fictional and non-fictional accounts of history which are just as detailed - but a whole lot easier to read. If I hadn't read this genre before, I'd probably blow off this genre afte this book. I have only persevered ever onwards through this series because of memories of the BBC series.he BBC series.	2003-09-26
US	49905029	R26PLQ7ZCTPHBJ	0226743411	229826670	The Day of the Scorpion	Books	3	9	14	N	N	Improvement on first book	In this second book of the Raj Quartet, Paul Scott begins to develop his characters more as opposed to the Indian landscape, and that makes this book a lot more readable than the first one. <br />Scott continues to have 'lapses' into long-winded paragraphs with descriptive detail, but this time, a much larger human element creeps in. Instead of the Indian countryside and endless narrations about the changing Indian political landscape, Scott focuses on how these changes are impacting the British - in particular, the Layton family. <br />Somehow, this brings alive the demise of the British Imperialism in India. No longer is it facts and stats, its not only the British rule collapsing, its the disintegration of British society and class structures. Everyone is fighting valiantly to preserve a dream which no longer exists.<br />This book overlaps slightly with the first book but goes a lot further to explain what happened to Daphne Manners in the first book. It also opens our eyes to the aforementioned collapse of British society in India as experienced by the Layton sisters.<br />All in all, this book was quite enjoyable. It's just a shame you have to read the first book to know where this book is heading...	2003-09-26
US	49905029	R1UHDQA97OBDA1	0099436167	299797619	Towers of Silence	Books	2	3	9	N	N	What?? Rewrote the 2nd book?	Thats how I felt reading this book! It was like Scott wasn't happy with his second book, so he rewrote it again! At least, the first 80% of the book was rehashing history already covered in the second book. <br />To give him credit, he didn't go into expansive detail in areas where he did in the second book, but it was so frustrating reading of exactly the same events as the second book, except from someone else's point of view. Very exasperating in fact. And unlike the second book, he somehow lost that fantastic ability to tell the story through the characters.<br />This book focuses on Barbie Batchelor, a retired missionary lady who lived with the Layton's Grandmother until her death. There is nothing wrong with telling the story through Barbie, except we already know most of it from the second book and somehow, Barbie's account doesn't add much to it - although we learn more about her!<br />When finally the book moves on into the future, it is well and truly 80% over and just glosses over the future, almost like its stampeding through Barbie's breakdown. There are hints of what to expect in the forth book, and given the precedence set in these three books, I suspect the beginning of the 4th book is going to be rehashing in expansive detail the material glossed over at the end of the 3rd book. <br />Quite honestly, I think this book could have been just about completely dumped from the quartet (maybe some of the better description replacing some of the duller descriptions in the 2nd book...), and we'd have been none the wiser!	2003-09-26
US	49905029	R21M7D4XMVPP9O	0295976780	773269912	The Ice: A Journey to Antarctica (Weyerhaeuser Environmental Books)	Books	3	11	11	N	N	As dense as the ice shield...	Like the previous reviewer, I too quailed at the start of this book. Immediately I was plunged to half page paragraphs and dense terms, swimming between excessive description and dense science. But, I'm a geologist. I've been to Antarctica. I knew I could do it...<br />I suspect that this book will remain unsurpassed for being an all encompassing tome on Antarctica for decades, possibly even centuries ... maybe even until we emerege from this interglacial period and the Western Ice sheet melts, thus giving up the secrets to climate control and Antarctica. I can't imagine much has been left out at all - Pyne is unbelievably, incredibly thorough. Every facet of the ice, and every facet he could think to associate with ice has been methodically slotted into this book. And if he ran out of talking about anything to do with the ice, he'd talk about Antarctica. <br />But this book is very, very, very, VERY heavy going. I set myself a goal of 25 pages/night - but it still took 2 months to read... Sometimes, I just had to take a break. And as I ploughed ever onwards, I constantly wondered, 'how would someone be able to read this if they hadn't actually been to Antactica???' And other times, I even qualified that with a &quot;would anyone really understand this if they weren't a geologist or in a similar field?' I mean, Pyne can be descriptive, but at other times, adjectives seem to be insufficient, so he swoops into heavy scientific jargon.<br />I also missed having some diagrams. A few 'colour' photos even... (Ok, colour is a bit misleading - its all white, blue and grey down there...). Antarctica is so stark and sparse, that sometimes, it is just better to look at a photograph of the deep glacier blue of ice (well, actually, WHY ice is blue was something Pyne overlooked in this book, now I think of it! Rainbows and bubbles people...), or a vast plain of continental ice, or the weird solar and weather patterns that can pervade above the ice...<br />If you can't make it down to Antarctica, but want to become an authority on it, then you can go no further than this book. If wading through the heaviest and densest book written in a long time is something you will need to build up to, the maybe start with something like, Antarctica: The Blue Continent, and see if you want to progress from there - at least then you will have some pictures in mind of what to expect when Pyne melts into deep prose...	2003-08-25
US	49905029	R3HQZYYTV9MNP6	0345448359	532522277	Darwin's Children	Books	3	5	6	N	N	Pleasant but goes where...?	Following on from Darwin's Radio, where a virus creates possibly the next step in evolution of the human race, Darwin's Children takes off with the children beginning to grow and America's biggoted reaction to them. From the point of view that this book seems to be mirroring America's increasingly inward focus on life, I wonder how much of it was actually a comment on society by Greg Bear?! Especially as he keeps this book so America-centric, its only in the faintest hints that we learn the rest of the world doesn't have these problems with the new children - so why all this desperate work in America to find a cure for the virus? America could have just sat back and watched the rest of the world assimilate the virus and seen what happened to total integration of the children anyway???<br />Unlike many of the previous reviews given, I wasn't so satisfied with this book. Darwin's Radio was a strong book with Bear putting forward the concept that mankind evolves in leaps and bounds rather than gradually, a not impossibly theory. However, after one incredibly suspenseful book, Bear gave his new evolved humans what I would deem to be regressive evolutionary characteristics - or at least, ones which I wouldn't think we needed to survive in today's world! <br />So, given his new humans have some strange new talents which aren't necessarily essential to survival on this planet, Bear is left to pick up the pieces and focus instead on how homo sapien Americanus accepts (or not) the new race. This book is more character driven which in part I would say would have to be because there was no where else to go. However, there were a lot of characters, with parts which drifted into loose threads which weren't tied up, but their meaning was so vague its more an itching annoyance than leaving crumbs for a third book. Bit like a movie sequel with strong charaters from the first movie appearing as cameo's in the followup.<br />And finally, I understand what Bear was getting at with hislittle plot line with Mitch going back to archeology, but it would be VERY hard for archeologists to piece together Bear's new humans from bones because apart from being taller (and gawd knows, with improved nutrition, even the smaller Asian races of today are producing basketball players over 7ft tall, and thats not deemed evolution...), they essentially have soft tissue adaptations instead. Now THAT would have been a nice area for Bear to explore as I suspect that is seriously under thought about in the realm of archeology!<br />In summary, the book is a good read, at least initially, as you don't know where Bear is going. But in the end, its so cliched and so predictable, you wonder where the energy went.	2003-07-21
US	49905029	R3T875OTZR7XC9	0767908449	861563653	Measuring Eternity: The Search for the Beginning of Time	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Stunning!	What a shame this little gem of a book hasn't received the large promotion it does to get it out into the mainstream! Expecting a dry little book about mans obsession with time, I was extremely surprised to find a compelling and overwhelmingly fascinating book which tells a tale of mankind's efforts to find out how old the Earth is. The story is very character driven, dipping into the fascinating (if opressed) lives of men of science and religion, driven over the last 400 years to work out exactly how old is the Earth. Of course, initially, the results are hopelessly tangled in religious boundaries but gradually, the questing minds of scientists eventually begin to push back the religious boundaries. <br />Gorst has written an absolutely magical book here - worth reading whether even if only looking to kill a few hours - because it is so well written, so easy to read and so interesting! Its been a long time since I read such a great work of non-fiction and would recommend this book to anyone with the slightest hint of curiosity or interest in history!	2003-07-16
US	49905029	R35BC1MRB2TTYW	0553573926	681381779	Vertical Run	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Fast paced action	In a manner not unlike the young Australian author, Matthew Reilly, Garber has set out to write an action novel which doesn't let up. Well, Ok, it would let up for a paragraph here or there... The story is largely set in a high rise building in New York but what initially keeps you turning pages is how absolutely everyone seems to have turned against the our hero - The enormous \\"Why?\\" combined with non stop action means its about half way through the book before you can even pause (to go to sleep?) before resuming and galloping to the finale. <br />Although I felt the story unfolded in a standard non-stop 'action' way, comparable to the moronic bits of fluff Hollywood calles 'blockbuster movies' nowadays, I was impressed with plot - it was quite rich without stepping into the unbelievable until the final page (yes folks, don't read the epilogue...). Its a cracking read so if you are feeling like some 'blockbuster' reading, you can't go far wrong with this book!	2003-06-27
US	49905029	R2H65HKWR4N7JJ	0060509058	486440079	Travels	Books	3	5	6	N	N	Well! This is a new side to Michael Crichton!	Cleverly named book... It doesn't just cover Crichton's geographical journeys, it covers his internal journeys as well... The book starts off with Crichton in university and describes not only his experience as a medical student, but also how he blossumed into the successful author that he is! It was fate (and a bit of heritage...). <br />But apart from his travels all over the world, it is fascinating to start reading about his experimentation with the pychic world and all. True, there is a bit of a &quot;I tried and tried and nothing seemed to happen, then suddenly it did&quot; air about his experiences, a vague cynical suspicion (on my behalf) that is sounded terribly like a 'growing up in California' experience, and one had to wonder, would Crichton have done what he did if he hadn't been so successful so young in life... But, the fact is he did, and as long as you are an open minded individual this book will be a very interesting read! <br />If on the other hand, you are looking for a straightforward autobiographical account of rags to riches and writers angst of an amazingly successful and thoroughly readable author, you will be disappointed. This book REALLY gives an insight into the Michael Crichton one wouldn't suspect from his fantastic and diverse novels and its actually, quite interesting...	2003-06-27
US	49905029	RAY8LK1A0HVL4	0740726730	52855596	The Legal Lampoon:  A Biased, Unfair, and completely accurate law review from Non Sequitur	Books	5	0	0	N	N	How can you not laugh?!	First there was Larson, and then, there was Wiley... When Larson stopped making cartoons, the world groaned - and I found Non Sequitur! If you love dry humour in cartoons and an 'outside in looking out' type of outlook on life, then you'll love just about anything concerning Non Sequitur. Unlike Larson, Wiley is more diverse in what he pokes fun at, and this book is a special collection of the fun he pokes at the humourless legal profession. It plays on stereotypes, it probably preys on reality, but the end result is a hilarious collection of books aimed at gently lampooning the legal profession.	2003-06-27
US	49905029	R1XGYR687U4IGJ	043935806X	667539744	Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix (Book 5)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Tired of angry Harry but it reads well	The trend began in Book 4 - long winded introductions. Its fortunate that JK Rowling keeps the pace bubbling along nicely for these long introductions, but in this book I was getting very, very, very, VERY tired of Harry being angry all the time! 200 odd pages of angry angry Harry. Come on! I don't know many teenagers who were or are as angry as Harry! The stuff at the end of the book describing Harry being moody was more an accurate reflection on teenagers than the angry Harry of the long introduction! So, be warned, Harry is tiresomely angry for the first 200 odd pages...<br />But after that, the book really picks up! Some of the new characters in this book are sensational - and the new Defence of the Dark arts teacher - she's special! She deserves to be elevated to being the worst villain ever - I don't care about 'you now who' - this new teacher will have you squirming as you read the book, gasping in horror and desperately trying not to speed read to see what she does next! Umbridge alone adds a marvelous new layer to this book!<br />Plot twists abound, classes, fantastic battles are described vividly by Rowling to replay in full technicolour in your mind. In fact, one of the most disconcerting things about reading this book is I hadn't seen any of the films before reading the other books and kept catching myself thinking as I read this book, \\"that will be interesting to see translated onto the big screen\\" because the most beautiful thing about this book is Rowling wrote it for the READER and their imagination, not the big screen! So she has not let herself become limited by future film scripts. Full marks to her for that alone.	2003-06-27
US	49905029	R2GXF512T04JQS	0962531138	790782097	Opal Adventures	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Chatty but very enjoyable	After reading lots of book written by journalists, I was almost floored by the impersonal way this book was written. At first, I was a little reserved, thinking it read more like a letter than a book, but in the end, Downings love for opals - and the enormous amount of information and entertaining stories in this book just suck you in and win you over!<br />There is no doubt Downing knows his stuff when it comes to opals. In this book, Downing starts by giving a bit of history about opals (prompted wisely by his wife, Bobbi), before delving into his adventures in the Australian outback. In fact, that would probably be the only complaint about this book - it focuses (apart from the history) exclusively on Australia and there is a smidgin of opal mining done in other parts of the world (Mexico, Nevada, Central Europe...).<br />However, that aside, Downing coveres the journey from beginning to end with opal - from getting down with miners, cutting, valuing and selling opals. And all of this 'insider' information is wrapped up in entertaining stories written by someone who has clearly fallen head over heels for opals and made a life-long commitment to this beautiful gem. What makes the book even more interesting is its a snap shot of Australia, before sealed roads connected the major tourist destinations of Australia<br />Well worth the read if you are even remotely interested in opals or thinking of visiting Australia for opals. You will learn more reading this book than anyone out there is probably going to be able to tell you.	2003-06-19
US	49905029	R26FUYNRTYNEHC	1887651047	228139556	Opals (Fred Ward Gem Book)	Books	4	8	8	N	N	All the facts and more...	This slim little book taught me more about opals than rummaging around in the opal stores and book stores of Sydney ever did... Fred and Charlotte have managed to add lots of juicy information about opals - how they are made, history, cutting, what makes them special etc and present it in a very easy to read manner.  A great book to give anyone an indepth knowledge of opals!	2003-06-19
US	49905029	R3PPF079TQKPLF	0380727331	939633503	Memoir from Antproof Case	Books	3	12	12	N	N	Thoroughly engaging read	This book was recommended to me as a must read for non-coffee drinkers around the world. Although not a coffee-drinker, I was relieved to find that the book doesn't hang on this! Not even remotely... Instead, Memoir from Antproof case is an amazing story from cover to cover!<br />I must confess, despite being a good read from cover to cover, I found it a little slow to get into the first couple of chapters or so of the book. The only thing that kept me going was the extraordinary fluid way the words flow across the page, seamlessly blending to create melt in your mouth sentences... Its hard to describe, but Helprin has a beautiful command of the english language and if all his work is like this, he can probably make the dryest legal document readable...<br />However, after the first couple of chapters, the plot explodes to completely engage the reader - and a couple of VERY late nights ensued while I powered through the rest of the book... And Helprin's beautiful sentences underly the unfolding story, adding an extra dimension. The plot twists are amazing and you HAVE to keep turning pages as the book builds up to a climax. My only grumble in that area was the climax probably came just marginally too soon, leaving the book with a 2 chapter wide down.<br />This novel is written as what I call &quot;Big novels&quot; i.e. a riveting work of fiction describing someone's life, with all its highs and lows. I loved the fascinating life described by the narrator in this book, and recommend this book to anyone - whether they like coffee or not! In fact, the coffee is just an interesting trait in the book (adds humour...) so don't EVER let that put you off reading this book if you are  coffee drinker!	2003-06-19
US	49905029	REVHPA3PEG2ZI	0609609734	567328910	Snowball Earth: The Story of the Great Global Catastrophe That Spawned Life as We Know It	Books	3	8	12	N	N	"Dumbing down" gone to far	Ok, maybe my title is a bit harsh - the book is still a good read, but it gives the reader absolutely no credit for having any intelligence! \\"Tabloid reading\\" would also have been suitable.<br />If you are not particularly looking to expand your technical knowledge of geology, then this book is an enjoyable read, quite swashbuckling in fact. Its an interesting theory and quite probably true. It was eye-opening to me to such dissent within the geological community over this idea, but then, no theory is good if it doesn't stand up to attack and there is enough false information being generated in science in related and unrelated areas. Even the theory of the dinosaurs being wiped out by a meteorite is still under attack and being modified. And to that extent, Walker documents extremely well how this theory (like any scientific theory) has evolved over time, taking into account new facts and theories, and thus gives the reader an powerful and positive insight into the true scientific process.<br />Walker is verbally very descriptive, using very simple, \\"laymans english.\\" She focuses extensively on long winded descriptions of the geologists and their work conditions (didn't realise I was in such a glamourous profession!), with key concepts being reduced to a paragraph or two per chapter. Like the previous review, I agree the book could have done with a few diagrams. Geology is a very visual subject, and concepts which Walker would ramble about over several pages could be neatly summed up in one diagram. <br />However, I did deplore the authors desire to not give the rocks names. This is a book based on geology and geology by definition is about understanding rocks and the stories they tell. Walker provides excellent descriptions of the rocks, such that I can make a fairly confident guess as to what they are, but she never ever, EVER calls them by their name! Would it have been so hard to add 'commonly known as dolomite' to the first time she described her ubiquitous \\"pink carbonates\\" (which in itself is inaccurate). Instead, the poor reader has to endure endlessly repetitions of \\"squashy bags of water\\" \\"beautiful rose pink carbonates with yellow and white boulders\\" \\"slimeworld\\" and other simplified horrors. I am sure even the non-geologist out there would in the end get a little tired of the authors over-emphasis on avoiding any word which might be construed as 'scientific.' <br />For probably a very colourful treatment of a generally dry and little understood subject, I'd recommend this book. But most scientists (and anyone with half a brain) will probably get a little annoyed with the 'warm and fuzzy' way in which it is written. At least there is always the list of references at the back to get the true scientific picture!	2003-04-16
US	49905029	R2QJ88XJ8TGZI0	0441010067	754948148	Orphans of Earth	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Peak of the SG genre	Having felt a little nonplussed with the way the ending of the first book of the Orphan Trilogy, \\"Echoes of Earth\\" I was bowled over by this sequel- absolutely brilliant from start to finish! Just when I think it is getting harder for SF writers to come up with something gripping and original, Williams and Dix have done it in this book. There are numerous plot twists throughout, and many, many, MANY great ideas and 'didn't think that would happen' twists. <br />Probably the thing I liked best about this book though were the characters - they were real. Too many authors nowadays seem to have 'flawed' characters who obsess endlessly about their neuroses and you just want to smack some common sense into them. Instead, Williams and Dix have characters with some doozy of problems, and they way they deal with them are probably no different to the way the average person would deal with them. It makes it so much easier to relate to the characters!<br />Having stuck with Williams and Dix through the Evergence series (felt a little rough around the edges, although still an extremely good and novel series) I am so glad to see this partnership seriously hitting its stride now. These guys are great and I look forward to reading the final book and any new stuff, especially as so many of my other favourite authors are not producing so much anymore... Thank goodness there are still some excellent SF writers popping up!	2003-04-16
US	49905029	R1XN4CJF7B2ZIW	0553801481	130881552	Fool's Errand (The Tawny Man, Book 1)	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Warm, familiar and very very readable...	I loved Hobb's Assassin series and persevered through the Liveship Traders series and was most relieved to be back with Fitz and the fool in this series. Although the story intially started with all the substance of the 2nd Liveship Trader book (I wasn't very nonplussed by that book - even if Hobb's won back my favour with the 3rd Liveship Trader book!), it picked up very quickly with the appearance of the Fool - now Lord Golden - and Fitz's return to Buckkeep. I found new respect for Hobb's at the end there - she had me absolutely balling my eyes without with her turn of phrase (I shall not mention anymore than that!)<BR>But where this takes off, is the next book - already released in Australia... All I can tell you is if you haven't read the Liveship Traders - you HAVE TO, because the sequel to this contains a jaw-dropping chapter which rocks the entire foundation of the series (for me anyway) and if you haven't read the Liveship Traders, it will mean nothing. So, persevere folks because by golly, its worth it for the ending to this book and the developments in the next book!	2002-12-14
US	49905029	R2MIFBVO03GCF1	0618015833	458706580	Love, War, and Circuses: The Age-Old Relationship Between Elephants and Humans	Books	3	2	9	N	N	Strip away the journalistic fluff and its a good book	Scigliano makes no bones about the fact this book is more about Asian elephants than their popular big-eared African counterparts. Tragically, this must have meant with the dearth of literature on Asian elephants, the first half was his own compilation - and it was written in that exasperating journalistic style of starting in the middle, dribbling to the end and then abruptly bouncing to the beginning and drifting back to the starting point. This meant reading about 20 pages before realising that actually, some interesting stuff had been said.<br />Fortunately, the 2nd half of the book picked up as it focused more on the modern day treatment of elephants, which I suspect there is a lot more information already compiled. So, around the time we begin to learn about the history of elephants in circuses in America, the book suddenly takes a quantum leap in readibility and was thoroughly enjoyable until the end. In all due fairness, Scigliano really tries to present a fair view, but in the end, you just can't. The fact of the matter is, humans are mistreating elephants (and any giant wild mammal for that matter!) and many people appear to blind to it - delibrately. I felt in the end, Scigliano had made up for the awful rambling start and successfully turned me into a raging environmentalist - albeit, I am now more concerned for the plight of ALL wild mammals as ALL are threatened from habitat destruction by mankind!	2002-12-10
US	49905029	R2X4A88KLFDS6Y	1882577922	698973497	The Satanic Gases: Clearing the Air about Global Warming	Books	4	28	32	N	N	Focuses on minutiae not the big picture	Firstly, let me say I did enjoy this book. I am a huge skeptic of the Kyoto Protocol but not only because of the reasons outlined in this book! Geologic history indicates that the world has been warming up more or less since the glaciers retreated 10,000 years ago. The geologic record over the last 500 million years would also suggest that we are in a 'cold period' and there is no time where the earth has a static temperature - it gets hotter and colder over the centuries and eons and in the past, it has generally been hotter. Stating that the temperature in 1900 was 'average' and then getting angry with ourselves when the world rises above or below this 'average' is very short-sighted...<br />This book dissects a lot of the myths and contadictions that have sprung up over the last decade concerning global warming and its impact - higher deaths, more extreme weather conditions, decreased crop yields, excessively rising sea levels etc. It also briefly discusses the impact of government intervention to try and slow down global warming (e.g. the disintegrating Kyoto Protocol). <br />However, I was a bit disappointed that the authors didn't step back from the microscopic analysis of papers to paint in the 'big picture' and allow the reader to gain a more coherant overview of why there are many skeptical scientists out there! In fact, from the evidence presented in this book, I am greatly reassured that global warming, despite its name, is clearly not a global phenomenon which is going to have much impact on any country except the US... <br />The authors focus on small and large descrepencies in papers that have been released over the last 2-3 decades - largely by the US - and comments made by ignorant but influential people - also from the US. Well, thats fine - thats what has created the hysteria over global warming in the first place. But, surely the name 'global warming' implies it should have a global impact?! By the final chapters of the book, this over-emphasis ondissecting the smaller details make one feel too much emphasis has been placed on discreding models and little on the reasons why any scientists felt they ought to question the models to begin with. But, there is a lot of evidence beyond the dissection of small scale climate modelling which could be reassuring - and more interesting - to explain why anyone would want to put global warming in perspective in the first place!<br />I also felt the book could have been better fleshed out by touching on why we are in this predicament of depending on fossil fuel in the first place. However, as the authors correctly note, where we will be in terms of technology and use of power in 100 years time is at this time, completly unknown. We could all be tapping into quantum energy for all I know! In the end, one can only be reassured (and not by the authors) we are burning through 440 million years of the Earth generating fossil fuels for us in a few short centuries - we will be forced to examine alternative and comparative sources of energy sometime in the next 100 years if not sooner.<br />In the end, this book is a dry but interesting critique of all the climate modelling and posturing made by the US government in an attempt to rally the world behind a cause. It is very scientific, but arguments are developed logically and explained in a clear fashion that anyone wanting to gain a more balanced point of view about the hysteria surrounding global warming, will be satisfied with this book.	2002-10-04
US	49905029	R299UDFWQZYU1N	0670030643	89209679	The Eyre Affair	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Intially weird, then gripping	I got this book because it was being compared to Douglas Adams' and his famous books. If you have also read something similar, you'll find that this book is nothing like Douglas Adams... However, it is still a VERY good read!<br />The initial few chapters are terribly confusing as not only do you have to adjust to the whole book being set in a parallel time zone, you have to take into account some historical facts are different as well - except I had never heard of some of those historical events in the first place, so to make them central to the plot left me feeling I needed to race out and grab a history book and what happened in our timeline! Ditto, I had never read the two novels that were central to the book, so I spent a few minutes in my local bookstore checking out what happened again... Maybe I shouldn't have, but I was even more lost not knowing about the plots of the other books as well!<br />It should be pointed out that not knowing the plots and history don't make this book a difficult read - Fford does give you plenty of detail to piece together what has happened on that timeline - it just that the alternate threads gnaw at you, making you wonder what on earth did happen in our timeline! So for better or worse, I learnt a bit more history and literature as a result of this book. If you can suspend reality completely, even when its vaguely parallel, then you have nothing to fear.<br />So my only clue to you if you are a fledgling reader of Fford, is do take it upon yourself to read the back cover (I didn't) as it does actually give you enough information to make the book enjoyable from the start rather than confusing - one of the few times that the cover is a useful supplement to the book... Now, I can't wait for the next book - the tantalising peak at it at the end of this book - it looks to be even better and weirder!	2002-07-31
US	49905029	R2GQL0SKYVT5MA	0441008925	517711274	Echoes of Earth	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Evolution	I read the first trilogy by Sean Williams and Shane Dix and was quite impressed with it, although it felt a little raw - had a 'new writers' feel about it (although I know Sean Williams is quite an accomplished author - so maybe I should say a 'new writing partners' feel about it). Echoes of Earth though, is a solid bit of work in its own right! Unlike the Evergence trilogy, this book is thought provoking, and uses science to introduce mind-boggling ways fight. There is plenty of action in these books, but its more at the level of incredible cyberwars that we can only imagine in these books, but could (but hopefully not) happen in the future. Its an unbelievable vision.<br />The climax is quite shocking and sends your mind reeling as you work out the repercussions. Tragically, Williams and Dix go on to write another chapter/epilogue that it has all the atmosphere of a damn squib fizzling out. They should have just wound everything up at the climax and reworked that final chapter as the opening to the next novel in the series (I am reassured that having &quot;Book 1&quot; plastered over it means there is more to come in this series!). In my youth, I would get angry and finish the series there, but such wonders as &quot;Red Dwarf&quot; have taught me not to diss a series based on the ending of the first book. So I shall hang in there and support the boys from Oz. But, you'd like to think Williams and Dix had enough experience and exposure between them to have not had such a rubbishy weak link leading into the next book...	2002-07-26
US	49905029	R1CK7UTR0ZKISL	0306809303	222579196	Rasputin: The Saint Who Sinned	Books	1	27	35	N	N	Biased, foul-mouthed trashy biography	There used to be (or still is if you are a conspiracist) a lot of mystery surrounding Rasputin and the collapse of the Russian Empire during WWI. I became intrigied after seeing the HBO version of Rasputin and swept away by the magic of Rasputin in Edvard Radzinsky's account (be it true or false...). I felt compelled to find out more and this book came highly recmmended at Amazon so...<br />Moynahan starts off with the clear, descriptive and simple writing style of the brilliant book on the last Romanov's by Robert K. Massie. Then somewhere in the middle of the book, he descends abruptly into a vitrilic foul-mouthed tirade at Rasputin - which is in shocking contrast to the start of the book. As the chapters kept on unfurling with this pure vitriol, my respect for the biographer and patience with the book deteriorated. Then suddenly, towards the end, Moynahan suddenly finds compassion for Rasputin in his (sensationalised) theory for Rasputin's death. However, Moynahan had lost my respect by then and the book was thrown into the bin - I couldn't bring myself to even subject it to the people at my local library where I usually donate books.<br />... If you want to read a masterpiece on a good biographer turned bad - this is the book for you. If you want to learn about Rasputin, there are other books on the market which are infinetely more informative!	2002-07-02
US	49905029	R73GNJ4D9LOM5	0345406400	255997198	The Romanovs: the Final Chapter	Books	5	2	3	N	N	The truth revealed	This book appealed to the forensic scientist in me. Rober K Massie had already written one marvelous book on the Romanov's and this book is the epilogue. After 7 decades, the truth is revealed. There is maybe still a little tiny bit of room for conspiracy theories to run amok in, but...<br />The first half of the book details the mystery surrounding the disappearance of the Romanov's and then the startling truth revealed in the dying years of someone who KNEW what really happened that fateful night in Ekaterinburg. Interesting also, is the current Russian governments reluctance to put this issue to rest, preferring to the last to believe that the Romanov's did not perish at Ekaterinburg rather than admit to destroying the Russian empire. The second half of the book is about the many people who claimed to be surviving Romanov's of the Ekaterinburg disaster. It takes skill to deceive people for 7 decades! Probably not as exhilerating as the first half of the book, but interesting nontheless.<br />I loved this book for wrapping up a tragic tale spanning nearly 1 century. Maybe some people won't like that, but I for one am glad that this great tragedy has been revealed for all that it is and documented as best and sympathetically as one can. Thank you Mr. Massie!	2002-07-02
US	49905029	R23D231XW90G9E	0449001504	476446589	The Wonder Worker (Ballantine Reader's Circle)	Books	5	18	19	N	N	Quite possibly the best book I have ever read	I can't believe anyone below gave this book a negative review! It is quite simply the best thing Howatch has ever written and quite likely the best thing I have EVER read. Although some people may be erroneously put off by the Church of England theme that runs though her Starbridge books, they are quite simply the best psychological thrillers on the market.<br />The book is broken into several parts and told from several people's point of view. It describes the escalating chrisis surrounding Nicholas Darrow as his life spirals out of control on a collision course for disaster of nuclear proportions.  Although the first few pages (lets say, 10, maximum) are a wee bit slow and one doesn't quite identify with Alice right away, by the 11th page, the pace begins to pick up (well, early in the book anyway!). From there, it was one headlong race until the unbelievable climax where I audibly gasped and realised that I had been holding my breath for the last 3 pages. It was that gripping and suspenseful! It's a fact, NO book has EVER gripped me that much to the point where the surrounding world completely ceased to exist for me.<br />As far as I am concerned, everyone who fails to read this book has missed out on one of the finest examples of literature ever written. If you never read another book again, do read this one!	2000-10-06
US	49905029	R2JFFUZ2SY8BI0	0375410570	746580901	The High Flyer	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Excellent follow up to The Wonder Worker	After the sheer and absolute brilliance of 'The Wonder Worker', Howatch had her work cut out for her, and The High Flyer is a respectable novel follow on. With any other author, this probably would have garnered a 5-star rating from me...<br />In The High Flyer, Howatch tells the story all from one view-point - that of Carter, a high-flying lawyer in London who has just met Kim Betz in time to keep her 'Life-Plan' on track. The only fly in the ointment seems to be Betz's ex-wife who is quite 'nutterguff.' However, despite some brittle moments where Carter saves herself from some nasty shocks in the early stages of their marriage, nothing prepares her for Kim's reaction when she announces she will eventually desire a child or 2 in accordance with her life plan.<br />From here on, it is vintage Susan Howatch with some deep pshycological probing and assistance for this provided by Nicholas and Lewis from the small St-Benet Church. I don't know how to tell people that you just shouldn't be put off by the underlying Church of England theme in Howatch's Church of England series - these are by far amongst the best books on the market and The High Flyer is no exception!	2000-10-06
US	49905029	R2MV30IJFF7CY5	0306809303	222579196	Rasputin: The Saint Who Sinned	Books	3	24	25	N	N	A sensationalised read	The book started out mimicking the marvelous book by Massie, Nicholas and  Alexandra, with Moynahan creating the atmosphere that Rasputin walked into.  Right off the bat, it became clear that this book was based on the sources  that include a more sensationalised account of Rasputin's life, and having  read Edvard Radzinsky's book first, that made some things in this book a  bit contradictory for me. <br />I think what threw me was in the middle of  this book, Moynahan suddenly turned absolutely vitriolic and was shockingly  scathing about Rasputin - and I really felt the obsenities were a bit over  the top. There is no doubt Rasputin was just a wee bit manipulating and  destructive in the actions he took to preserve his position as the  Tsarina's right hand man, but I felt Moynahan drifted a bit there! A  beautiful narration is one thing, obsenities are another and all rather  lacked the nice professional tone that the book opened with.<br />However,  towards the end of the book, Moynahan settled down again and got somewhere  more polite about the whole tragic death. For all Rasputin did, he was just  a focus of the frustration the people felt at the hardships being imposed  upon them by a Tsar who seemed to be disconnected from his people. Moynahan  did convey ratehr well that the prevailing atmosphere in which Rasputin was  assisinated was one where you could tell it wasn't going to make any  difference to the Russian Empire.<br />Its up to you whether you read this  book - if you believe Radzinsky's sources for his book, then possibly his  book is more accurate, however for a largely well-written book about  Rasputin based on what the world knew for 70-odd years, this is a pretty  good book (apart from the bit in the middle!)	2000-09-19
US	49905029	R1BX1ZJ3VEXIB4	0684859718	666165371	Deadly Decisions	Books	3	0	3	N	N	A good read	Ahhhh.. Still not as good as her first one, but still a decent crime  thriller. Reichs introduces some new twists for her heroine to deal with,  and I like the way she handles the very contraversial subject of the book.  I learnt a lot reading this book - as much as I was entertained by it!	2000-09-19
US	49905029	R3NACIKCU5X2YT	0590353403	667539744	Harry Potter And The Sorcerer's Stone	Books	3	4	5	N	N	A good start, and the best since Roald Dahl exited the scene	I never actively set out to read the Harry Potter books - always felt that they sounded like Roald Dahl's children's books (which I really enjoyed!). That changed when someone gave me the first 3 books. So, I figured I had nothing to loose. As things go, my first impression that Harry Potter was  written in the same vein as Roald Dahl was true. That is good because that  makes the book quite enjoyable to read! However, I did feel at times that  J.K. Dowling took the 'simple' route out and didn't really show any signs  of wonderful little eccentric plot twists until the end of the book. Maybe  this is because I am an adult. I am sure for kids and young teenager and  the young at heart, this book is magic in itself. I will let slip that  having progressed beyond this book in the series, it is defintely worth  hanging in there - and you have to read this book to get going... You will  enjoy it!	2000-07-28
US	49905029	RFI0SYH5JQGH6	0439064864	667539744	Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets	Books	4	1	3	N	N	Getting better	Being somewhat vaguely disappointed with the first book as I felt Rowling took 'simple' routes out of complex problems, I was quite impressed with the 2nd book! Suddenly, the little complexities I expected to be there WERE there! I found this book a lot harder to put down and read it from cover to  cover in 2 nights flat - TV doesn't quite make the standard compared to the  wonderful world of Harry Potter and his friends at Hogwarts School that was  generated in my mind!<br />I don't think ANY young fertile and creative mind  should be deprived of the wonderful fanasty world of Harry Potter!  Personally though, I will admit to having a desire to go to Kingscross  Station and seeing how many children try to get to Platform 9 3/4's... And  what harm is there in glancing up at the sky periodically to see if a car  is flying overhead or waiting at the mailbox when you turn 11 to see if you  will get a letter from Hogwart's...?	2000-07-28
US	49905029	R32NO2808P02EO	0345438310	169523236	Nicholas and Alexandra: The Classic Account of the Fall of the Romanov Dynasty	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Written like a beautiful painting	Robert K. Massie's book is one of the most beautifully written books I have ever read. The beginning of the book quite honestly reminded me of a Monet or some other french impressionist painting in brilliant spring  shades of pastel - the childhood of Nicholas II was so elegantly described.  The romance between Nicholas and Alexander was rendered something we all  wish for. Then, shades of grey and brown began to creep into the picture as  Nicholas was thrust onto the throne 'ahead of schedule' and subjected to  the manipulations of others when trying to sort out the distant eastern  border.<br />So riveting was Massie's style that I was catapulted into horror  as for the first time, I read a gripping account of how WWI broke out - and  appalled at the absolute STUPIDITY behind that. Yet through it all, Massie  continues to paint a picture of a leader whose only flaw was he was a kind  and gentle man with a deep love for his wife. Yeah, I am sure you could say  plenty about the mistakes Nicholas II made - and I am sure you can say  plenty about the mistakes all other leaders have made during times of  trouble, but Nicholas would have been a fine leader if he hadn't been  destined to be Tsar in troubled times. Massie's depiction of the other  events which led to the demise of the Romanov's is eqully gripping, giving  one an overall appreciation of all the factors which contributed to the  collapse of the Russian Empire -something which they don't appear to have  totally recovered from in nearly 100 years...<br />My only complaint (and  hence the 4 stars not 5) was Massie really just described the historically  accepted points of view and didn't mention some of the contradictions and  facts which go against the sensationalised story. I found this occurred  particularly with Rasputin, and because I questioned the facts surrounding  Rasputin, you can't help but wonder what other little details he left in  the life of Nicholas and Alexandra. However, that aside, this is such a  beautifully written historical biography, that missing facts or not, most  of it is true and this book should be read by everyone just to gain a  clearer picture of one of the truly more dynamic and mysterious bits of  history in the timeline of humanity!such a  beautifully written historical biography, that missing facts or not, most  of it is true and this book should be read by everyone just to gain a  clearer picture of one of the truly more dynamic and mysterious bits of  history in the timeline of humanity!	2000-07-28
US	49905029	R1AW75VP5AT6NT	031286860X	106877023	Ender's Shadow (The Shadow Series)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Not a just a companion book - excellent by itself!	It has been about 8 years since I read Ender's Game and I think that is just about right to read this novel! Its just enough time to remember the outline of Ender's Game and not the finer details, and that allowed me to  appreciate Ender's Shadow all the more.<br />Card's attention to strategy in  this novel is brilliant and makes it every bit as compelling as Ender's  Game. I loved the way he incorporated Bean's psychoanalysis of people and  all the other variables with the power of deduction to come up with truth -  just mesmerising reading! Absolutely compulsive page turning stuff. <br />I  agree with reviewer's that this book probably shouldn't have been called  Ender's Shadow because Bean was such a fascinating and powerful character  within himself, that he didn't live in Ender's Shadow - he complimented  Ender.	2000-06-26
US	49905029	RJ7FFU9KUGIQB	1572700904	134276149	The Return of the Native (Cover to Cover Classics)	Books	4	10	13	N	N	Don't bother with the book - cassettes are the way to go!	I admit, I bought this so I could listen to Alan Rickman for hours on end. However, when listening to that first chapter, I was wondering if I was going to be able to endure the following cassettes... To my suprise, after  that dreadful, long-winded, over-descriptive first chapter, the story line  really picked up and I actually quite enjoyed the entire story!<br />Not being  a literature-buff, this book becomes  a fascinating history lesson as well,  with words and situations appearing that I thought were only pertinent to  the 20th century, not 19th. There were also, the obligatory words that we  no longer use (but only  a bare handful...). This (for me) all added an  extra richness to the story that Hardy tells.<br />Alan Rickman's reading was  delightful, with him displaying consistency throughout in portraying all  the characters. Like other reviewers before me, to listen to Mr Rickman  singing the fench song Tape 8 is worth a listen in itself!<br />All in all,  listening to this story unfold by cassette probably makes it more enjoyable  than trying to read the book, where I am sure most would give up before  finishing the first chapter...	2000-05-15
US	49905029	R370L1CSUWE4CC	0385489099	424706370	The Rasputin File	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Peculiar writing style - but brilliant read	This book is riveting from reading the cover to the grand analysis of Rasputin's death. <br />Initially, the eccentric way of writing can be most distracting. Radzinsky wil (for example) leave you hanging between sections - sometimes for up to 2 chapters, or will adopt Rasputin's reputed habit of using nicknames (which has you scrambling backwards to find the definition of someone's nickname) or just calls people 'him' 'her' etc - despite starting to refer to that person several paragraphs or a section beforehand... <br />However, Rasputin's life is fascinating, even though Radzinsky does his best to make Rasputin more of a real man with human failings. The only thing I wish he had expanded on more was Rasputin's relationship with Alexei, the heir, as that seems to have been the crux of the Tsarina's belief in Rasputin - and it is hardly touched in this book. Apart from that though, the book is a brilliant read and I would recommend it to anyone wanting a more realistic interpreation of Rasputin (although it does dent the fairy tale...)	2000-05-06
US	49905029	R23ON7DPJPLP7U	1852276304	937279917	Alan Rickman: The Unauthorized Biography	Books	4	16	33	N	N	IF your a Rickman fan, its a must read	Somehow, I managed to exist for the 12 years of Alan Rickman's movie career without seeing a single one of his films. That all changed with Dogma and I became a HUGE fan. And with that came the desire to find out more about this incredible actor. Maureen Paton has set out to do her best,  given that Mr. Rickman, at the time, declined to make this an offical  biography. She has gone to incredible lengths to collate information from  close friends, interviews, newspaper articles, tracking down as much of his  work as possible. It makes for fascinating reading and through her  astounding research, my admiration for the man has only grown.<br />My only  criticism is that with no input from the man himself, Paton seems to  occasionally ramble  on about unconnected topics at some points. Further  more, having set up a chronological structure for disseminating the  information, she then proceeds to bounce all over time within each chapter,  with little regard for the dates at the start of the chapter. That can be a  bit confusing!<br />Rickman fans need this book for its dazzling insights to  this great actor. Others may be put off by the disorganized in manner in  which the material is presented.	2000-04-03
US	49905029	R1OFKUR3OTLTJ5	0345430751	138364901	Manifold: Time	Books	1	9	12	N	N	Bad rehash of his earlier novels	Up front, let me confess I am a complete and utter fan of Sephen Baxter and his brilliant manipulation of the constants in our Universe. But. This would have to be THE most disappointing book I have ever read by Stephen Baxter (and I thought Titan was pretty bad with no loveable characters and  a gruesome plot...). In Time, Baxter starts off Ok - bit of a mixture of  Voyage and some of Xeelee stuff and then suddenly, half way through the  book - BAM! Total Deja Vu as it degenerates into a basic rehash of some of  his previous books from the Xeelee series (although he does take into  account advances in our knowledge of the universe).<br />If you are a first  time reader of Stephen Baxter, read some of his earlier stuff like  Moonseed, Flux, Ring, Raft, Voyage etc!	2000-03-12
