US	49918446	R3NXIO3RBUZEDA	0375406972	667466602	Snow	Books	3	6	8	N	N	Parts greater than the sum...	Snow , the latest from celebrated Turkish novelist Orhan Pamuk, is a good read which held me captive until the last page but then, rather oddly, I felt a bit let down by the whole book; it was not the masterpiece which it had shown signs of becoming along the way. The premise was great: a former exiled Turkish poet returns to Turkey to investigate a series of suicides amongst Muslim girls who have decided to don the headscarf (a bold move in Turkey) in a little snowy town of Kars -where a girl whom he loved at University also happens to live; he gets involved in the local politics too where the Islamic party is poised to win the local elections much to the dismay of the violently secular military... <br /> <br />This could have been a brilliant, great, novel but despite many lovely sections and some great writing, it is only a good one--the parts are greater than the sum.	2005-04-17
US	49918446	R1SJP4XMJ5POZK	0195648625	284173544	Devotional Islam and Politics in British India: Ahmad Riza Khan Barelwi and His Movement, 1870-1920	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Excellent and welcome introduction to a major Muslim figure	It is the best available study to date in the English language on thelife and times of this great Sunni scholar, mujaddid, Sufi and saint.<BR>The book is extremely-well researched and although in a very few<BR>places which deal with theological nuances she falls into the trap of<BR>the Orientalist--after all she is a non-Muslim writing about Islam--of<BR>misunderstanding the Urdu poetry--overall the book is fair and<BR>extremely well balanced. <BR>The book begins with a look at the ancestors of Ala Hazrat and how<BR>they came to settle in Bareilly and their family history. It also<BR>develops the political history of the situation in British India at<BR>the time and the different responses to the British Raj by the Muslim<BR>ulama and intelligentsia. It thus situates Ala Hazrat in his<BR>historical and cultural context which is very important for a full<BR>understanding. The book then gives a fairly detailed biography of Imam<BR>Ahmad Riza Khan, his education, teachers, initiation into Sufi<BR>tariqas, his own development as a scholar, his beginning as a mufti an<BR>d so forth. Then the book looks at different aspects of his teachings<BR>and especially at his fatawa vis-a-vis the Deobandis and Wahabis and<BR>also his attitude to the British and his role in the major political<BR>movements of the time (eg the Khilafat Movement). Another section<BR>looks at his poetry and some of the major themes therein. Then there<BR>is a section on his role as a spiritual and religious guide to Sunni<BR>Muslims, his interactions with other Muslim groups, his efforts at<BR>Islamic revivalism and also a look at his major students and khalifas<BR>and their role in the Independence movement after his death.<br />It gives a neutral's view on the Deobandi-Barelwi conflict too and<BR>also absolves Ala Hazrat Imam Ahmad Riza Khan rahmatullah alayhi of<BR>charges against him made by, for example, some &quot;Salafis&quot; of today and<BR>some Deobandis, that he was a Shia or pro-British. Itdetails his deep<BR>learning, piety, fairness, moderation and his general attitudes to the<BR>politics of his time . It also has a good section on how his followers<BR>developed after he passed onto Allah Ta'ala. The style is somewhat dry<BR>and academic but that is to be expected in an academic study which is<BR>what this is after all. Despite this stylistic aspect one thing that<BR>still comes through is the intense and devotional love which Ala<BR>Hazrat had for the Beloved Prophet (sal Allahu alayhi wa alihi wa <BR>sallam).<br /> It is a very good first book indeed and highly recommended to all<BR>those who would like to know the major facts of the life of Ala Hazrat<BR>Imam Ahmad Rida Khan radhi Allahu anhu, free from both the demonising<BR>of his opponents and the exaggeration of some of his more ardent<BR>followers.	2004-04-23
US	49918446	RRZRE50GFL1LI	043935806X	667539744	Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix (Book 5)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Not quite as good as the other books but still a great read!	Like all the other countless HP fans I too awaited the arrival of the fifth installment with great anticipation. Having received my copy I began reading it right away and was instantly transported back to the magical world of Harry and his friends.<BR>The first half of the book was brilliant and lived up to the standard of the previous books--indeed surpassed it at times! When Harry finally gets to Hogwarts again the standard is maintained and the book thrills, building up the tension and excitement but unfortunately the final third of the book at times drags and does not live up to the excitement developed earlier; indeed, the denouement--after all the brilliant build-up--is a bit of a let down and that is the biggest downfall of this fifth book. After the great hype surrounding the identity of the person who we knew beforehand was to be killed, the actual character who dies is not that major and this too was disappointing (although a relief too!) And the 'great' revelation which Prof. Dumbledore makes to Harry is not very groundbreaking either! Harry also is not as likable in this installment being all moody and stroppy for large tracts of the book( intentionally but still)! There are of course many new characters and the most horrid Defence Against The Dark Arts teacher yet! She is absolutely horrid! Still the good in this book far outweighs the not-so-good and overall it is still an excellent addition to the HP series. The next book is as eagerly anticipated as ever!	2003-08-10
US	49918446	R11J2ZMPNUZUT2	188999913X	655097694	Wahhabism: A Critical Essay	Books	5	32	35	N	N	Necessary expose of Wahhabism--the ideology of terrorism.	This book is a timely effort. Traditional Muslim scholars fought against this heresy disguising itself in the garb of Islam from the time of its inception by the infamous Ibn Abd al Wahhab al-Najdi who is detailed in this book. Indeed, his own brother, Shaykh Sulayman ibn Abdul Wahhab refuted him as did the great Muslim scholars all over the world; and they are still doing.<br />This movement is extremely crude and cultish and rejects almost all of the traditional teachings of Islam which do not fit into its narrow black and white views: any Muslim who disagrees with them is considered a non-believer! They are only about 2% of the world's Muslims but because of Saudi petro-dollars their beliefs have spread far and wide amongst the disenchanted youth. They have an especial hatred for Sufism--the heart of Islam and because they can offer nothing spiritual to their followers, Wahhabism is the first step to becoming angry with the rest of the world and leads to terrorism. All the Muslim terrorist organisations are Wahhabi in creed or sympathetic to Wahhabism. This book therefore is excellent for allowing misinformed Western Muslims and non Muslims to differentiate between the religion of Islam (respresented by the Sufis in its highest form and scholars like Imam Ghazzali (12th century), Imam Abu Hanifa (8th) and Imam Ahmad Rida Khan (20th) to name just three from different centuries of Islamic history) and Wahhabism.	2003-04-29
US	49918446	R15NL6IVVP109M	0831131527	860723934	Engineering Mathematics	Books	5	10	10	N	N	The most useful textbook for university  maths students!	This book by Straud et al. is absolutely brilliant and takes the reader by the hand and guides him or her step by step through each topic without assuming any background knowledge. It also has numerous worked examples and is the best arranged maths textbook I have come across (and I am doing a PhD so I should know!!) The second volume covers more advanced topics which are useful in the second and third year! Totally indispensable, this is a textbook I still refer to till this day and the one I would recommend to any maths students.	2003-04-08
US	49918446	R3NCE2FTC4X6UC	0471154962	527866008	Advanced Engineering Mathematics, 8th Edition	Books	4	10	10	N	N	The Bible of Engineering Mathematics!	This is the book I used as a student and a graduate student and it is still the book I use as a reference book as a doctoral student! It is the complete reference textbook for any engineering mathematics student (and any student of applied mathematics). Though it is more difficult to use than Stroud (hence only 4 stars) it covers each topic in much more depth and also covers topics which Stroud does not even in his Advanced volume. I would recommend using Stroud first to learn the topic and then this book to master it. For the more advanced topics such as partial differential equations and advanced vector calculus this book is matchless. A must have reference book for any engineering/physical sciences student/researcher.	2003-04-08
US	49918446	RFRY6700AKQ8W	0679723161	636015448	Lolita	Books	5	3	4	N	N	A mesmerising masterpiece	Let me say at the outset that I have never read a book like this ever before! The marvellous prose is magical: alliteration, puns, word-play, allusions, metaphor, simile, poetry, lyricism, humour, wit, sarcasm...this and much much more make Lolita a delight to read just for Nabokov's astonishing use of the English language with its veritable palimpset of verbal textures. He is THE master of language--bar none! In this respect the work becomes precisely that rare thing: a piece of literature which is also a work of Art.<BR>To some extent then the plot of this masterpiece is not as important (in my view) as the style is so astonishing, so beautiful, so clever (so clever in fact that there exists an Annotated version to explain all of Nabokov's hints, references and allusions in his text) that the poetically inclined reader will enjoy its many hidden pleasures regardless; however the plot is also tightly controlled and the characterisation is also brilliantly done--especially of Humbert Humbert and Lolita although the secondary myriad of people who crop up in this tale are also well-defined--such that although the subject matter is paedophilia (hence the notoriety the book has achieved) --and incest --this does not prevent one from simultaneously understanding and feeling pity as well as poignancy and revulsion for the male protagonist whereas in a less well written work dealing with this taboo subject it would be very easy to decline into stereotypes and portray the paedophile as a unidimensional evil villain. Likewise the nymphet is portrayed with a variety of personae-reflecting real people rather than just a stereotype!--and not just that of a helpless victim or a seductress. This is a remarkable achievement and, for once, --from all the novels I have read which are considered 'classics'--this one really deserves the accolade. It is without doubt the most engaging, brilliantly clever and disturbingly brilliant work of fiction I have yet had the pleasure to read. Amust-read. A work of rare genius.	2003-03-27
US	49918446	R2U4EIJ1SM5UL	0679722432	711632233	The Decay of the Angel (Sea of Fertility, Book 4)	Books	5	15	19	N	N	Stunning ending to a brilliant, important, tetralogy.	This book is the concluding part to the Sea of Fertility quartet by Mishima--generally considered his magnum opus. As an individual book it is inferior in characterisation, plot strength and beauty of expression than Spring Snow and the third book but better than Runaway Horses (book 2). However the ending is so stunning and original that it leaves one mentally exhausted and yet thrilled. The ending turns the whole story so far (from Book 1) on its head and for that reason I will not disclose it. Suffice it to say that of all the books I have read this has the most unexpected and mind-bending ending. I was left in awe!  In conclusion it is a fitting ending to a most brilliant quartet of novels for those readers who want more from their novels than just a story. This quartet deals with the most important ideas of human existence and is very challenging yet what makes it unique is Mishima's magical, poetic, and mesmerising control of language and diction. Engaging, thrilling, difficult, philosophical, beautiful, brilliant.<BR>(The quartet as a whole is 5 stars, this book on its own I would give 4 stars.)	2002-11-04
US	49918446	R2ZSIPRDR5EVRA	0060195576	385195167	Ghosts of Manila: The Fateful Blood Feud Between Muhammad Ali and Joe Frazier	Books	4	1	3	N	N	An interesting corrective but too prejudiced.	This book is excellent in that it acts as a necessary corrective to the mythologising and often deification of Ali which occurs so frequently. Now, I am a great fan of Muhammad Ali and I believe that he is one of the few men of the 20th century to whom the epithet, \\"great\\" can actually be applied without exaggeration. This book shows some of his flaws as a human being (and which of us normal humans does not have a flaw?): he is a human being not an angel and not even a saint (though some would have us believe otherwise). Up to this point what the book does is good, welcome even, but where Mr. Kram errs is that in trying to show that Ali is not a saint he often accuses him (often indirectly and subtly) of being a devil instead and seems to delight in spending a lot of detail on describing events and accounts of events which would support such a view. Indeed, the only really positive thing he says about Ali is that he is a great boxer. Other than that, he seems to be dismissive of Ali the Thinker, Ali the Representative Of Black Americans, Ali the Philanthropist, Ali The Icon, Ali The Hero, and especially of Ali The Pious Muslim. He is very cynical about the sincerity of Ali's conversion to Islam which, given its documentation by a lot of people, is curious; perhaps, even intentional?<br />Anyway the book is very interesting and well written and it is definitely worth reading even though the author does allow his own prejudices to get in the way of his writing.<br />For a much more balanced look at Ali  though I would recommend Thomas Hauser's book.	2002-01-21
US	49918446	RZJUQGEJGNKXR	0439139597	667539744	Harry Potter And The Goblet Of Fire (Book 4)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	The most accomplished  (and darkest) book in the series....	This is (possibly) my favourite novel in the series and definitely the most accomplished as a piece of literature: it is closer to being an adult novel than any of its predecessors and has quite a complex plot for a &quot;children's&quot; book.<br />It is by far the longest of the books to date which is excellent as it allows the plot to be developed in far greater detail and also allows for deeper characterisation. This gives Rowling the opportunity to describe her world in even greater detail and makes for fascinating reading. However, the book is a lot darker than the others and, at times, is quite creepy and verges on the horrific (notably the chapter in which Harry confronts You-Know-Who (oh okay, Valdemort!)) and I feel younger readers might well be scared by this. Such writing and the length suggest that this book is marketed as much at adults as it is at children.<br />I will not repeat the plot here (as so many others have done that already) but I thoroughly enjoyed this book even though it is darker than the rest. We also see the beginnings of what could be (will be?) a blossoming love interest between Ron and Hermione--or will she choose Harry instead? Or perhaps Cho Chang instead will capture the heart of Harry! Yes, the wizard boys have discovered the opposite sex!We wait with great anticipation and excitement for the next book in order to see the answers to this (and other) mysteries...	2002-01-10
US	49918446	R1I9VWY2QFTLI3	059035342X	667539744	Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Wonderful story-telling for children!	Unlike most people I (who am old enough to have children of my own!)was at first rather sceptical about the whole Harry Potter craze. Then, I went to the cinema with my friend and she wanted to watch the Harry Potter movie; I reluctantly agreed, expecting a typical children's movie full of wooden and empty characters. Thus I was surprised and delighted to be confronted with one of the most sheerly entertaining cinematic experiences I have had for a long time! This convinced me to go and read the book and I went and bought it the next day. The book was even better! This is not great literature but for great storytelling, wonderful characters (I especially am fond of Hermione--she reminds me of myself when I was at her age!!), wit, comedy, vivid imagination and a fantastic plot twist--all ingredients sure to keep children (and adults) hooked--this book is a treat and one of the best children's novels I have read--well, since I was a child myself about the same age as Harry Potter! I read Book 1 in a single day and have now swiftly moved on to Book 2. These books are almost as good as the Chronicles of Narnia series by CS Lewis or the Malory Towers &amp; Famous Five series' of Enid Blyton. In short, magical.	2002-01-02
US	49918446	RH3QZPAGJ0P58	0394736273	406429357	Layla and Majnun	Books	5	36	42	N	N	Beautiful retelling of the  true-life  Muslim 'Romeo+Juliet'	The tale of Majnun (whose real name was Qays ibn al Mulawwah and who lived in the latter half of the 7th century) and Layla, his beloved, of the Banu Amir tribe is based on true events which have become legendary in the whole of the Islamic world to the extent that their names have become parts of common and everyday sayings and proverbs to do with love. <br />The most famous retelling of their love story is this one by Nizami Ganjavi, a Persian Sufi, of the 12th (?) century. He correctly understood that Majnun's love for Layla was a metaphor for his of God--in other words by loving Layla he was actually loving God as he totally consumed his ego into nothingness through his love for Layla so that he didn't percieve himself and her as separate entities but as One; in other words this story is an allegory for the Sufi's journey towards, and eventual annihilation, in the Divine.<br />He has described it in wonderful poetical rhyme and rhythm and although this translation changes his poetic form into prose, the rich metaphors and exquisite descriptions are kept and so the prose also reads like poetry. The central plot, in addition to being based on real-life incidents, is also very interesting and there are a host of wonderful characters too who play a part in this tale. <br />A must read: not only a classic love story but also a classic text of Sufism and one of the world's great literary masterpieces of poetry.	2001-12-12
US	49918446	R1NQ285004CKLG	0722951345	841215350	Tarjuman Al-Ashwaq	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Beautiful and difficult poetry of The Master for Masters!	This book is a wonderful book of poetry--even in translation the imagery created by the words is beautiful but the real meaning of the poems is extremely difficult. Indeed, in these poems Shaykh al Akbar Ibn e Arabi (may his secret be sanctified) was revealing Truths which he experienced in his journey towards and in Allah (The Divine) and therefore unless one has similar experiences it is impossible to ascertain the real meanings behind the words. His explanations help a little but even they are really aimed at other Sufi Masters who are traversing the Path. The layman or ordinary Muslim (or non Muslim) can still though indulge him or herself into these masterpieces as literary outpourings of a soul singed with Divine Love and thus experience at least a little of Ibn Arabi's profound station and insights. A must-have.	2001-11-24
US	49918446	R2JH68O0IQUZP5	0671742493	695039962	Delta Of Venus	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Effortlessly erotic!	Brilliant, beautiful prose and an effortless ability to seemingly turn every action into an erotic act by the magic of her pen makes this collection of short stories not only great erotica but also great literature. Beautiful.	2001-11-02
US	49918446	R1SA9NZUPJJIUS	0195790677	213692184	The Life and Work of Jalaluddin Rumi	Books	5	49	50	N	N	Compulsory reading for those seriously interested in Rumi.	There has been a glut of books on Rumi in the past few years, many of them of dubious authenticity or quality; this assessment applies especially to the &quot;free&quot; translations of his poetry which have been such a big hit in the West! I think those poetical translations are not doing justice to the message of Rumi since they are so far removed from many of the original Persian poems.<br />This book then is a welcome change. It is quite an old book but its republishing is an important event in the world of Rumi studies, in my opinion.<br />For a start this book, though perfectly accessible to the lay person, is primarily a scholarly endeavour and as such much more concerned about relaying the events of Rumi's life and his message as accurately as possible than in selling copies!<br />It is unique of all the books I have read on Rumi to date in that it tries to look, in depth, at his early life and how that affected him later when he met Shams Tabrizi and was moved by Divine Love to compose ecstatic poetry.<br />Thus we have a detailed chapter on the political conditions of the area  (Afghanistan) in which he lived; then we have an exposition about his father (who himself was a very famous Muslim scholar and jurisprudent as well as a Sufi) who, as this book shows, had a major influence on Rumi's development and later ideas. We also then are introduced to the other people who influenced Rumi in one way or another, his teachers and his family and friends.<br />The sections on Rumi's life are detailed too: his life is divided into three sections: his birth, childhood, migration to Konya and early training as an Islamic scholar under his father and other famous teachers; his period following his father's demise as a prominent scholar, and Sufi teacher himself (he was an heir to his father's position); and then the period of his meeting with Shams and afterwards for the remainder of his life. This latter period is also further sub-divided based on his various works and mystical states as evidenced by his poetical output. Most other works on Rumi tend just to concentrate on this last period of his life.<br />After this the major poetical works of Rumi are discussed in, more or less, chronological order of writing. Thus the Divan-e-Shams-e-Tabrizi, his great collection of ecstatic lyrical poems in praise of Shams is dealt with first followed then by an explanation of his magnus opus, the Masnavi. Then the author discusses Rumi's overall message. The final section looks at sections of the Masnavi which RE Nicholson, in his great translation of the Masnavi, decided to translate into Latin as he believed them (erronously) to be of a pornographic nature. In fact, when one reads the English translations here, one sees that Rumi simply uses examples of human sexual behaviour to underline an important teaching point of Sufism.<br />For those who are interested in Rumi's message and life in earnest, and not in the suspicious &quot;New-Age&quot; fad which the spurious translations of his works seem to have started (and which he, being a pious Muslim, would no doubt be horrified by!), this book is a must.<br />Dr. Iqbal needs to be congratulated for trying to bring Rumi's message across as it is!	2001-10-29
US	49918446	R1OURWSWWW4ZPM	1567445012	913620109	Muhammad: Man of God	Books	4	10	14	N	N	Beautiful little introduction to Allah's  Beloved Messenger.	This little work by Dr. Nasr is an excellent little introduction to the life of the Beloved Prophet (peace and blessings be upon him and his family) which concentrates on the spiritual nature of his perfect life. In this manner it is different from most other biographies which concentrate on the political events. This book is important also in that it relays a little of the awe and total respect in which Muslims have traditionally held their Prophet (peace and blessings be upon him). Also, though Dr. Nasr, is a Shia he does not allow that to cloud his objectivity. <br />Commenting on one of the earlier reviewers I will say that orthodox Sunnis too believe the Prophet of Islam to be perfect, and infallible and sinless both before the proclamation of Prophethood and after it.<br />This book is a good introduction, especially for younger readers or those who do not have the time to read a longer book.	2001-10-29
US	49918446	R5FTVWA0JV674	0553344749	316955058	Last Emperor,the	Books	5	16	17	N	N	Moving tale of an extraodinary life (&amp; its transitoriness)	I read this book, the biography of the last Chinese Emperor Pu Yi, before actually watching the famous movie version by Bertolucci, and I am glad that I did.<br />Reading this extraodinary book gives a more detailed and, therefore, in depth understanding and emotional response to the life of Pu Yi than the film. This is perhaps due to the nature of the written word in that the words allow one to use the imagination to conjure up the beautiful descriptions of the Forbidden Palace and the Imperial City and China. It is then fascinating to compare the imaginatory images with Bertolucci's magnificent cinematography of the actual sites and places.<br />Though Pu Yi's life was amazing in its variety, ultimately this book was about the transitoriness of life itself.<br />It has to be read!	2001-10-28
US	49918446	R13JXI14P808FG	1566562937	130048720	Samarkand (Interlink World Fiction)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Magnificently crafted novel of Umar Khayyam's life &amp; times.	Umar Khayyam, or Omar Khayyam as he is better known in the West--primarily through the rather inaccurate but poetically brilliant &quot;translation&quot; of his Quatrains by Fitzgerald, was one of the best poets of Medieval Persia as well as being an outstanding mathematician and astronomer. <br />This fictionalised account of his life is a masterful achievement by Maalouf. The central plot is simple but very absorbing and the description and depiction of the Islamic world in the time of its civilisational apex is marvellous. The sub-plots are also intriguing and a host of (mostly) historical personages provide excellent characters too from the great administrator, the  Grand Vizir, Nizam ul Mulk of the Seljuk Sultanate, Hassan al Sabbah the twisted mastermind of the Ismaili Assassins, the intrepid American adventurer looking for the manuscript of the Rubaiyaat and, above all, the wonderful Umar Khayyam, all of which are beautifully developed to make a novel of rare achievement. A masterpiece.	2001-10-25
US	49918446	R3FL0X99V3ZM1N	1561310220	868921080	Leo Africanus	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Brilliantly captures Muslim civilisation as it once was.	This book captures the sounds and smells, and more importantly, the ethos and underlying culture and &quot;philosophie de vie&quot; of the Islamic world during the 15th century in its telling of the story of the real life traveller and scholar Hassan al Wazzan from his birth and childhood in Spain to his life in northern Africa, Egypt, and Byzantium and Rome. Brilliant.	2001-10-25
US	49918446	R2RRVUKC19LCV4	081121267X	401370752	Twilight in Delhi (New Directions Paperbook)	Books	5	32	33	N	N	Classic set in late 19th century Delhi. A rare masterpiece.	I have just finished reading a great novel ( Twilight in Delhi by Ahmed Ali ) (not for its plot but in its descriptions and language) set in Delhi, just after the War of Independence (1857) about the life and times of an upper middle class Muslim family...this novel is now deemed a classic and was written in 1940 by Ahmed Ali and initially banned by the British...for obvious reasons if you read it!<br />But it is highly recommended, and describes a lifestyle which is now, sadly, vanished for ever...<br />If you are a Muslim you will find this book especially poignant and moving but for all Subcontinentals it tells of how much the British Occupation actually did to destroy  Indo-Muslim heritage and culture; will be of interest to all those who want to know what a real Islamic culture was like and the effect of imperialism on it. Especially relevant in light of recent events in NYC. Stunning.	2001-10-25
US	49918446	R1YLBHBCLX4DBM	0786707593	97041690	A Scandalous History of the Roman Emperors	Books	5	1	3	N	N	Hilarious but informative  history--and fun!	This is a rare little work of history. All the facts of the lifes of the Roman Emperors are presented but in a witty and irreverent style unlike any other history book I have ever read. A great joy to read, hilariously funny and yet very informative. A great source of trivia as well! A great little book!	2001-07-21
US	49918446	R3RROANEV6RE70	037570924X	236185551	An Equal Music: A Novel	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Wonderful, tender,  tale of love. Exquisite.	The basic plot of this novel by Vikram Seth is simple: boy meets girl, boy loses girl, boy finds girl again but with this simple story the author has constructed (perhaps composed would be a more apt word in this case!;-)) a most exquisite and beautiful novel. Mr. Seth obviously loves language and here he uses it to express himself and the emotions of his characters in a poetic and intelligent, meaningful and alluring manner. The images he builds are very powerful and moving and I found myself quickly drawn into this book so much so that I suspended  my daily routine just to be able to finish this book! I found myself reading through the night to finish it. The characters Mr. Seth has created are very realistic, vivid and interesting people and ones which you empathise with. The main lead character Michael is beautifully developed as the novel progresses so that one feels his excitement when he meets Julia and his pain when things dont go his way. Julia too is an interesting character, beautiful, talented yet devastatingly handicapped and unsure as well. The secondary characters in this book also add considerably to the novel's depth. <br />As in his work, A Suitable Boy, Vikram Seth is at his best when describing scenes and here again his vivid and colourful images of Vienna, London, and Venice are superbly crafted masterpieces of descriptive writing. Of course music plays a major role in this book both in its plot and its aestethic appeal and the book is full choc-a-bloc of descriptions of various pieces of classical music especially the Trout Quintent and also The Art of Fugue and of the perils and joys of playing the violin and the viola. I am immusical (though I do enjoy listening to music) and therefore will failed to have appreciated this aspect of the book properly but it is a measure of how well Mr. Seth writes and his mastery of language that not once was I bored by the technical musical passages. Indeed the book made me interested in learning more about this aspect of music. <br />A joy to read. Tender and exquisite.	2001-07-16
US	49918446	R5X3KWSO29G1O	037570924X	236185551	An Equal Music: A Novel	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Wonderful, tender,  tale of love. Exquisite.	The basic plot of this novel by Vikram Seth is simple: boy meets girl, boy loses girl, boy finds girl again but with this simple story the author has constructed (perhaps composed would be a more apt word in this case!;-)) a most exquisite and beautiful novel. Mr. Seth obviously loves language and here he uses it to express himself and the emotions of his characters in a poetic and intelligent, meaningful and alluring manner. The images he builds are very powerful and moving and I found myself quickly drawn into this book so much so that I suspended  my daily routine just to be able to finish this book! I found myself reading through the night to finish it. The characters Mr. Seth has created are very realistic, vivid and interesting people and ones which you empathise with. The main lead character Michael is beautifully developed as the novel progresses so that one feels his excitement when he meets Julia and his pain when things dont go his way. Julia too is an interesting character, beautiful, talented yet devastatingly handicapped and unsure as well. The secondary characters in this book also add considerably to the novel's depth. <br />As in his work, A Suitable Boy, Vikram Seth is at his best when describing scenes and here again his vivid and colourful images of Vienna, London, and Venice are superbly crafted masterpieces of descriptive writing. Of course music plays a major role in this book both in its plot and its aestethic appeal and the book is full choc-a-bloc of descriptions of various pieces of classical music especially the Trout Quintent of Bach and also The Art of Fugue and of the perils and joys of playing the violin and the viola. I am immusical (though I do enjoy listening to music) and therefore will failed to have appreciated this aspect of the book properly but it is a measure of how well Mr. Seth writes and his mastery of language that not once was I bored by the technical musical passages. Indeed the book made me interested in learning moreabout this aspect of music. <br />A joy to read. Tender and exquisite.	2001-07-16
US	49918446	R2LKYHLBY7PWXJ	0946621292	600085830	The Secret of Secrets (Golden Palm Series)	Books	5	30	32	N	N	Awe-inspiring. Enlightening &amp; wonderful book full of Truths.	This is one of those rare books which, no matter how many superlatives one uses, one cannot fathom its reality. The language is wonderfully lucid, clear and yet still poetic and enchanting. Indeed, Shaykh Abd al Qadir al Jilani, who by concensus is regarded as THE greatest Saint in Islam amongst the latter generations (i.e. exluding the Prophet's generation and the two generations after him), and whose honorific title is &quot;Al-Ghawth al 'Azam&quot; (The Greatest Helper) to reflect his unparalleled rank in the spiritual heirarchy of Saints, is THE Perfect Guide to all those on the Sufi path or those interested in the mystical way. This book is unique in that anyone at any level can read it and he or she will no doubt benefit but in reality it is a book which contains in it the secrets of Existence itself except that one has to be on a high spiritual station oneself to truly understand the great wisdoms and oceans of spiritual knowledge contained herein. Each chapter is short and succint yet contains an ocean of hidden meanings. Each person takes from it according to his level. Though I cannot say how accurate this intepretation is to the original as I dont know Arabic, I can voachsafe that for all English speaking Muslims (and non-Muslims interested in Islamic mysticism or in the Way to God) this book is a must-have and truly unique and the English language employed is wonderful to read. (It will be interesting to compare it to Muhtar Holland's translation of the same work by Al-Baz Publications). This is poetic prose if you will containing hidden secrets!<br />The lengthy and beautiful introduction by Shaykh Tosun is a brilliant synopsis of the life and works of His Excelleny Shaykh of Shaykhs, Shaykh Abd al Qadir al Jilani (may Allah be pleased with him and with us for his sake!) and a great introduction to this greatest of Muslim Saints. It gives a glimpse of the exalted status and spirituality of this amazing human being.<br />A must read!	2001-06-26
US	49918446	RU76OJ5JWS054	0900860715	341107749	The Alchemy of Happiness	Books	2	92	97	N	N	This book is a great disservice to the Imam's original!	Without doubt the original work by Imam al Ghazzali, entitled \\"Keemiya-i-Sa'adaat\\" (Alchemy of Happiness) is one of the great works of world religious literature, especially mystical. However, although it is an abridgement of Imam Ghazzali's magnus opus, \\"Ihya al Ulum ud-Din\\" (The Revival of the Religious Sciences) made by the master himself, this translation presents but a TINY portion of the abridged work. To give you an indication of just how much has been left out of this book, I have seen a full Urdu translation of the Keemiya and it runs to approx. 1000 pages. This work is 122 small sized pages!! (The Ihya of course is about 4000 large pages).Obviously therefore most of the book is missing. Secondly, this is an English translation of a French translation of the Urdu version of the Persian from the original! The number of errors in that sequence will be large. Also the translator has made some glaring errors in the translation of some technical Sufi terms used by the Imam. e.g. the word \\"sama'\\" has been translated, incorrectly, as it almost invariably is by Orientalists as \\"music\\". Now, \\"sama'\\" as understood by the Sufis themselves does NOT mean music. Its actual meaning is to listen to melodious voices or singing without musical accompaniment.That is what sama' gatherings were: gatherings of Sufis and disciples to listen to mystical poems sung in melodious voices with the rules of musical rhythms etc. with NO accompanying instruments NOT musical concerts as is often implied.<br />Therefore as a general taster of the great work by Imam Ghazzali this is ok but it is a poor substitute. Alas, the English speaking world must still wait for the first complete and accurate translation of the Alchemy of Happiness.	2001-06-26
US	49918446	R240RMGHHXAZU3	0415039304	938099528	Discovering Islam: Making Sense of Muslim History and Society	Books	2	17	34	N	N	Disappointing effort reveals lack of Islamic learning.	Having met Prof. Ahmad I can say that he is a very nice person and a good host and his commitment to Islam is not questionable but on the evidence of this book his lack of Islamic knowledge is evident. This is not meant to be a harsh criticism but the Prof. is an anthropologist and not an Islamic scholar and therefore his lack of in-depth knowledge of Islam is not surprising. <br />Though the book is well written it does suffer from factual errors and also many of the interpretations of history are not the traditional Islamic viewpoint as understood by the majority of scholars of the Ahle Sunnah w'al Jama'ah: in his evaluation of certain Muslim historical personages of great repute he has surprisingly-and regretably-followed the standard Orientalist opinion of them (or his own opinions are closer to that of the Orientalists than of the traditional ulama). For example, his contention about Aurangzeb, the last of the great Mughals (and the sixth Mughal Emperor), that he may be reasonably compared with General Zia ul Haq of Pakistan is preposterous and false on two accounts: 1) Aurangzeb followed the traditional Maturidi/Asha'ri school of Islamic orthodoxy which is also known as Sunni Islam  whereas Gen. Zia was a well-known admirer of the heterodox Wahabi movement which only sprang up in Arabia in the 18th century. Indeed, under Aurangzeb's orders the greatest compendium of Sunni fiqh [jurisprudence] was compiled, the Fatawa Alamgiri (or Fatawa al Hindiyya as it is also known.) (2) Prof. Ahmed contends that Aurangzeb was inimical to Sufism whereas in fact he was not only a murid [disciple] of the grandson of Imam al Rabbani, Shaykh Ahmad Sirhindi (may Allah sanctify his secret), who was a Shaykh in the Naqshbandi Order but according to the ijma [consensus] of the scholars of Ahle Sunnah [Sunni Islam] he himself was a wali Allah-a Sufi who has reached the end of the Journey to Allah as Rumi would put it! In other words he himself was an accomplished Sufi and even his detractors admire his personal piety and adherence to the Shar'iah--which is the essence of Sufism as understood by the Sufis themselves. I think that this error by the respected Prof. may be due to his definition of Sufism. Perhaps he has the same definition of Sufism as that of most Orientalists of the past that anynone who claims to be a Sufi is one! Certainly this profound lack of understanding of Sufism (tassawuf to give it its Islamic name) is evident in this book! <br />Another glaring error was in the section which compared the differences between Deobandis and Barelvis (the two major groups of Muslims in the Subcontinent apart from the Shia). It was claimed that Barelvis believe that the Prophet is not human (!) (peace and blessings be upon him) and not flesh and blood but light and that he is semi-divine and that he is present everywhere around us all the time. As a Barelvi (the traditionalist Sunni, sufi, Muslims of the Subcontinent) myself I found this error not only surprising but offensive. These are the beliefs falsely ATTRIBUTED to Barelvis by the Deobandi school and the Wahabis. It is a pity that such an experienced writer like Prof. Ahmed should just accept this accusation as fact without checking the books of the Barelvi ulama for himself. Here is what Barelvis ACTUALLY believe regarding the Prophet of Islam (may Allah bless him and give him peace). <br />1.We believe He IS a human being made from flesh and blood [bashar] AND a noor [light] at the same time. This is like the example of when Gabriel, who is also noor [light], used to appear to the Prophet in the form of a man, flesh and blood. 2. He is infallible and perfect and free from all imperfections and sinless (as are all Prophets).He is human but not like other humans like a ruby is a stone but not like other stones! 3. Allah has GIVEN him the ability to see the whole of Creation in detail while he is in his blessed grave as if he was looking at it in the palm of his hand. This is called being &quot;nazir&quot; (&quot;witnessing&quot;). 4. Allah has GIVEN him the ability to go physically and spiritually to anywhere in the Created Universes he pleases whenever he pleases (peace be upon him) AND to be in more than one place at the same time. This is what is meant by &quot;hazir&quot; (present). This is not the same as believing that he (peace be upon him) is present everywhere all the time! The above definitions of the CORRECT meaning of what is meant by &quot;hazir and nazir&quot; can be found in any Sunni book on beliefs [aqa'id] in the Subcontinent by Barelvi ulama. e.g. Jaa al Haqq wa Zaahiqal Batil by Mufti Ahmad Yaar Khan Na'eemi (Allah have mercy on him).<br />The readers will notice how these beliefs differ from what is ASCRIBED to us falsely and which Prof. Ahmed unfortunately repeats in his book.  And ALL of the above beliefs from 1 to 4 are found in all the classical works of the Sunni scholars throughout the world as they are firmly based on a classical and orthodox understanding of the Qur'an and hadith.  <br />To end on a more positive note the general chronological events of Islamic history are more-or-less correct and Prof. Ahmed is undoubtedly a good writer but I sincerely believe that only qualified experts [Islamic historians, ulama, scholars] should write on Islam and Islamic history as the scope for unintentional errors is vast, especially in doctrinal matters.<br />His books which deal with contemporary Islam and South Asian anthropology and history (Postmodernism and Islam, Jinnah, etc.) are brilliant but this book alas does not do him justice.<br />A disappointing effort.	2001-06-22
US	49918446	R3FW6GZP9ME7XF	1567444768	24789772	A Young Muslim's Guide to the Modern World	Books	4	14	16	N	N	Every English speaking Muslim should have this book!	This book by Dr. Nasr is a book which was waiting to be written and it could not have been written by a more qualified person. I learnt a lot about the intellectual history of Islamic thought from this book (philosophy, mystical ideas, speculative theology) and how it has developed throughout the ages to the present. I also was very very impressed by the scholarly yet succint way in which the major philosophical and intellectual movements which shaped the history of the West were presented. This again greatly increased my knowledge. These first two sections were excellent. The third section was not as strong as the other two--how Muslims should respond to the Western dominance at present and a comparative overview--as it was too brief. This though is an excellent book. I hope that Dr. Nasr writes another version of this book--for adults this time following the same format but including a lot more detail and references and bibliography.	2001-06-16
US	49918446	R1VFRZBAUCX3IG	0312273231	594654916	Moth Smoke: A Novel	Books	3	5	8	N	N	Hip story of  Pakistan's Westernised ruling class	I bought this book primarily because of the writer being Pakistani and of the relative rarity of a novel in English by a Pakistani being published in the West where I live (England)--as compared with the Indian English novel which seems omnipresent these days! <br />I managed to read the book in one sitting more-or-less and it was definitely a racy and interesting read and some of the characters were interesting too, especially the femme-fatale if you will, Mumtaz and her husband. But despite containing an interesting central plot which evolved around the lifestyles of the elite in Pakistan and some good descriptive passages, I could not help but notice the latent arrogance towards the so-called &quot;Islamists&quot; of Pakistani society--those mainly poor and middle class people who have a deep and certain belief in Allah and who try to lead their lives according to Islam and are thus, in many ways, diametrically opposed to the class of people with which this novel mainly deals. This disdain is evident a) from the negative comments made about them in the text and b) the lack of any major character from this group from society (which forms most of Pakistan's population).<br />In this respect this book does not reflect accurately the lifestyles or the Pakistan of the common man but rather of the priveleged few and it does so from the point of view of the priveleged few! As a fair portrayal of Pakistan  in toto therefore it is a failure but on the level of a story about the fall of a member of the ruling class it works well and is an interesting read.<br />Even then, it portrays all of the protaganists of the leading class in a mainly negative light too (they are all either drinking, raving, taking drugs and sleeping with each other with apparently no moral or ethical dilemmas!) and I do not think that this is a totally accurate portrayal of the ruling class either. Having met many people from this &quot;elite&quot; Westernised class whilst at London University I cansay that though I recognised shades of the leading characters in some of them others were a lot closer to their Eastern routes than Mohsin Hamid's novel would have you believe.<br />To summarise then I would say that as a novel about the glamorous and decadent lifestyle of Pakistan's &quot;hip&quot; ruling class of ultra-rich inhabitants it is fairly accurate and is a good, exciting, read but as an overall portrayal of Pakistani society it is a bit of a failure.	2001-06-16
US	49918446	R1MBMD1J0H9JHZ	0345422384	140729396	Pandora (New Tales of the Vampires)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Entertaining story-telling!	This is the second Anne Rice Vampire book I have read (I started reading Memnoch The Devil but was deeply disappointed and so didn't finish it!) and it was very entertaining; she creates a vivid character in Pandora and embues her latest creation with a witty, interesting, forceful personality. The Roman settings add another interesting layer to this tale so that this book works both as a tale of the supernatural and also as a historical novel. It has restored my faith in her writing and I shall now try to read all of the books in her Vampire series...	2001-03-10
US	49918446	R1SLAOB2AMGTF	1559701811	934454170	Show Business: A Novel	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Enjoyable and fun.	Whilst reading this book it became obvious to me, at least, that parts of this book were based on the life of India's biggest filmstar Amitabh Bachchan. In this book the hero, a famous movie star in the mad world of Bollywood narrates his experiences.The novel is essence a satirical look at the Indian film industry and also a look at India itself through the lens of a movie star. Enjoyable and fun, especially if one is a fan of Bollywood films.	2001-02-24
US	49918446	RKI3C1E1RCKVY	1852427078	684007360	Bombay Talkie (A Five Star Title)	Books	3	1	3	N	N	Entertaining, yet superficial, first novel	Though this is the umpteenth novel about the problems of identity for Indians and Pakistanis who have grown up in the UK or the USA, it is still, nevertheless, entertaining and parts of it were easy to identify with (being a British Pakistani myself). The central plot was quite an interesting, though hardly novel, idea about the expatriate returning to the Homeland (in this case India) to find herself but I feel such an important topic needed to have been dealt with in a more thorough manner and the characters could have been developed further and in much more detail. Ameena writes well and this could have been a great book but it was too superficial a treatment of an important subject.	2001-02-24
US	49918446	RZ0RMQHCD8ZAO	0140123504	494983051	Sunlight on a Broken Column	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Aristocratic Muslim girl comes of age during the Raj..superb	This is a semi-autobiographical story set in the last days of British rule in India and centres around the life of a young aristocratic Muslim girl just entering into womanhood. The author portrays the lifestyle of the rich Nawabs of India at that time in a delicious manner, which raised in me a wish that I had been born at that time! However, the story is in no way an idealistic approach rather it is very realistic indeed and the hopes, fears and doubts of this former ruling class are eloquently described as the British rule nears its end and Independence beckons. Who will go to Pakistan and who will remain in India? The changing fortunes of this powerful Nawab family makes absorbing, and for me, wistful and poignant, reading. The beauty is that all these events are related from the viewpoint of the leading character, interspersed with her burgeoning love-life as well and her confrontation with the traditional lifestyle of girls in her position.<br />A female friend of mine recommended this to me and now I heartily recommend it to you all! Very good indeed!	2001-02-24
US	49918446	R121NPR8WCVHCQ	0375704000	163823661	Freedom Song: Three Novels	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A writer of wonderful prose.	I have read one of the three novels in this collection separately and I will jot down my thoughts of it here. I will definitely try to read the other two as well since I was very impressed with Mr. Chaudhuri's novel Afternoon Raag which I will give my thoughts on here: This book is not very large but it packs a big punch! It is esentially the reminescences of an Indian student in Oxford. The power and beauty of the book lies in the wonderful descriptions contained herein. I grew up in Oxford (and it is where I enjoy being the most even now) and Chaudhuri captures the essence of the town beautifully. His free-flowing, beautiful writing is what makes this book such a delightful read and it is an wonderful way of losing oneself in memories of one of the prettiest places in the world to live in. In addition the author intermixes his experiences of Oxford with his memories of India and especially of his time with his music teacher. A delight.	2001-02-24
US	49918446	RPO2NTGOSN0JM	0749399708	430842345	Afternoon Raag	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Beautiful and lyrical little gem of a book.	This book is not very large but it packs a big punch! It is esentially the reminescences of an Indian student in Oxford. The power and beauty of the book lies in the wonderful descriptions contained herein. I grew up in Oxford (and it is where I enjoy being the most even now) and Chaudhuri captures the essence of the town beautifully. His free-flowing, beautiful writing is what makes this book such a delightful read and it is an wonderful way of losing oneself in memories of one of the prettiest places in the world to live in. In addition the author intermixes his experiences of Oxford with his memories of India and especially of his time with his music teacher. A delight.	2001-02-24
US	49918446	R2P6MCM1KHL6E8	0060925000	832364601	A Suitable Boy	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Wonderful depiction of India and a great epic story!	This is certainly one of the best books I have ever read and is an astonishing achievement! Being of Pakistani origin, I found I could empathise more with the Muslim characters in the book than with some of the others but Vikram Seth's superbly detailed accounts ensured that none of the characters were un-interesting. I was particularly enthralled by the characters of Saeeda Bai, the courtesan, and Firoz and Maan as well as the Ustad of classical music. This was what was so great about the book. It seemed as if all of India was here, in front of me as I read this book. Princes, businessmen, academics, paupers, villagers, tanners, untouchables, priests, mullahs, imams, Urdu, Hindi, English...the wonderful scents and colours painted a great and detailed canvas of Indian life. Seth's erudition too becomes clear from his excellent rendition of the ghazals of Ghalib and Mir into English during, perhaps, my favourite section of the book which was the musical performance given by Saeeda Bai in Mahesh Kapoor's house. Simply wonderful!	2001-01-25
US	49918446	R26HBJU4NW7FZ4	0934905347	460038595	The Naqshbandi Sufi Way: History and Guidebook of the Saints of the Golden Chain	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Wonderful guide to the great Naqshbandi Sufi Order	This book by Shaykh Hisham is a wonderfully produced and poetic work, beautifully presented, about the Most High Naqshbandiyya Order of Sufis. It gives detailed biographies--not available elsewhere in English--of some of the greatest Muslim saints who were part of this chain. Also, as the Naqshbandiyya Order is uniform up to Hazrat Muhammad Mas'um (May Allah sanctify his secret!) in the names of its Masters, only then splitting up into different sub-orders, this is a good history book also of the Naqshbandiyya in general and of the Naqshbandiyya-Khalidiyya in particular. Beautiful!!	2001-01-21
US	49918446	R15KC3VI5N8MH4	0385333420	322854472	Men in Love	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Explicit but fascinating look into male fantasy.	This book was very interesting and it was also very erotic. The whole gamut of male sexual fantasies was covered in explicit detail. Although some of the &quot;psychobabble&quot; by Friday was not always agreed upon by me, this is an important book and worth reading.	2001-01-21
US	49918446	R3OHH9QOUHUOKX	0679752471	129772212	A River Sutra	Books	5	0	0	N	N	An enchanting little book. Beautifully written.	This book is really a collection of enchanting stories all with an underlying mystical message--which is not always clear--which joins them together. It is therefore a mystical book and one which has some of the most beautiful prose writing I have read in the English language. Ms. Mehta obviously loves writing and her prose is so enchanting and graceful that it reads almost like poetry at times. A sheer joy.	2001-01-21
US	49918446	R3CGWKMO3VQQEE	0395595118	669379389	The Lord of the Rings	Books	5	1	3	N	N	Quite simply the greatest fantasy book I've ever read!	I first read Tolkien's masterpiece when I was 11 years old in secondary school from the library; I was instantly hooked and have re-read it a few more times, the latest being about 5 years ago (I'm 26) and each time I read it, it appears fresh and there is always something new to be savoured and discovered. The language Tolkien uses is superb and very noble and elegant, biblical almost, and it is language unfortunately not seen very often in more modern books.<br />The central plot of the book is a wonderful battle of Good versus Evil but the real delight is in the myriad characters and landscapes inhabited by all sorts of mythical creatures that Tolkien so evocatively describes in his amazing world. Parts of the book are deeply comic, moving, tragic, exciting, joyous...<br />The cast of main characters is also epic: Frodo, Sam, Merry, Pippin, Gandalf, Boromir, Aragorn, Gimli, Legolas....etc. etc.! Each of these is different...<br />Anyway, I have read quite a few other fantasy works since then as I am an avid reader and I can honestly say that, at least in my experience, no fantasy book comes near Tolkien's magnus opus in terms of scope, greatness, characterisation, grandeur; in fact, most are plane rip-offs of Tolkien! The only other fictional work I have read which is comparable is Dune by Frank Herbert but even that is not quite as good!	2001-01-21
US	49918446	R38S72XX61V5AC	0140281819	337614818	In the city by the sea	Books	3	11	14	N	N	Interesting first novel. Some beautiful passages.	Compared to the glut of writers from India writing in English and being lauded at present, it is comparatively rarely that we get a writer from Pakistan and especially a female. Therefore, being a Pakistani, I was very interested in reading this book. I found that the writing in the book was very accomplished, with a nice knack for using interesting words. I found the book to have a slightly slow start but once I got into the book I was eager to find out what happens next. The descriptive passages in the book were probably the best and there was also a slightly acerbic humour underlying the whole story too. The political undertones were apparent. Overall it was a good read with some delightful passages but could have been made more readable if the characters had been developed further. Good. Recommended.:-)	2001-01-21
US	49918446	R298LZXFIMA8S6	0345421825	934137363	The First Immortal: A Novel Of The Future	Books	3	2	4	N	N	Interesting ideas--plausible if some assumptions are made.	I am a PhD bio-engineering student working working at the nanoscale on biomaterials and so I had more than just a cursory interest in this book.<br />The ideas in this book were plausible scientifically--IF the assumption is made that human beings are nothing more than extremely complicated carbon-based biological machines. The book has very interesting ideas about the likely technologies which are going to emerge in the 21st century and describes them well and the basic plot is okay but what I found disappointing was the style and standard of the writing. If the science and technology presented herein is put aside then what remains is just mediocre writing. I feel the same excellent premise could have been developed much better if the author had made an effort with his english and writing skills. Also, although there is an attempt in the book to discuss the implications of cryonics on the soul it is quite superficially done and is also Christianity-centred. Now, given that most of the world's people are not Christians this is a big failure. For example, I am a Muslim and in Islam death is believed to occur when the soul leaves the body. Now, once the soul has left the body [it is removed by the Angel of Death--Azrael] it is immaterial what you do to the body--life will not be returned to it unless the soul was to return to the body. In this respect therefore the whole theory of cryonics falls flat when viewed from the Islamic perspective because death is defined as the moment when the soul departs: the body without the soul is just a lifeless shell. Has the author considered this? I dont think so.	2001-01-21
US	49918446	R2QOSCFP3GIFVK	1882216148	456257810	The Proper Conduct of Marriage in Islam (Adab an-Nikah): Book 12 of Ihya 'Ulum ad-Din	Books	5	3	4	N	N	The definitive guide to marriage based on classical Islam	This book written by the venerable &quot;Proof of Islam&quot; and great scholar, theologian and Sufi Imam Abu Haamid al Ghazzali is a superb work full of Qura'nic ayats, hadiths of the Beloved Messenger and sayings of the great awliya and ulama vis-a-vis the important subject of marriage. The Imam details with, in his unmatched style, all the important aspects of marriage including the spiritual aspects.<br />A must read and a book all Muslims should have! Beautifully presented by Al Baz publications.<br />May Allah bless the soul of Imam Ghazzali! <br />(I reviewed this above anonymously--then felt that why should i be anonymous?!!)	2001-01-21
US	49918446	R3SJYZOXD70ZQ1	0553289675	513979779	The War in Heaven	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Excellent finale to series marred by poor ending.	I read this book with great anticipation and was not disappointed. The writing and the imaginary worlds continue to enthrall and the plot is again excellent and plausible with many twists but as always it is Zindell's descriptive powers which continue to entertain and enthrall all the way through this book until the ending--where, after such a great story which was written to be totally believable in the context of the universe in which it was set and with the main characters having human flaws as well (adding to the empathy for them)--Danlo was suddenly described to become a superman like character. This totally disappointed me and was out-of-touch with the rest of the book. Still the rest of the novel was so good that it still gets 4 stars.	2001-01-21
US	49918446	R22ORJEG11MRTK	0006497128	215136979	The Wild (Requiem for Homo Sapiens)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Another beautiful book in this epic series.	Zindell carries on from where he left off with The Broken God with his usual and ummatched blend of great plot, interesting characters (my favourite being the Warrior-Poet), stunning imagination and more beautiful prose all intermingled with mathematics and philosophy. Simply awesome.	2001-01-21
US	49918446	RNUU07SMLBO1U	0586211896	641187812	The Broken God: Requiem for Homo Sapiens Bk. 1	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Stunning. A tour de force! Beautiful prose.	This is certainly the most memorable sci-fi novel I have read in the past few years (and one of the best novels in all categories). The plot-as described in the critics' reviews above follows the adventures of one Danlo on his journey to become a Pilot in the city of Neverness and his subsequent quest to find the truth about his father but it is the other detail in this book which rises it far above almost all other science fiction books I have read. (The only one I can think of which comes close is Dune). A fantastic cast of alien and human characters all wonderfully developed and different, whole new worlds described in great detail and an astonishing imagination as well as a wonderful intermingling of mathematical ideas into the story. Awesome. However for me the single most wonderful thing about this book (and its two sequels) is the quality of prose with which David Zindell writes. It is simply mesmerising and a sheer joy to read, something science-fiction is not noted for. Such beautiful language and a classical Homeric oddysey combined in one book. A must read!	2001-01-21
US	49918446	R39LLL7NYKY6IP	079142250X	173458734	Imaginal Worlds: Ibn al-'Arabi and the Problem of Religious Diversity (Suny Series in Islam)	Books	3	20	51	N	N	Shaykh al Akbar Ibn Arabi was NOT a perrenialist!	I have read bits of this book (and not all of it) and all I want to say is the following:<br />Undoubtedly, Mr. Chittick knows a lot about Ibn Arabi and is very interested in him; however for an academic--who are supposed to look at all the evidence before coming to any conclusions--I find it very disappointing that this book, though no doubt a labour of love and beautifully written, attributes positions and beliefs to Ibn Arabi (may his secret be sanctified!) which are totally opposed to what Ibn Arabi himself believed. What is even sadder--as the link below clearly shows--is that this position is arrived at by selective quoting of Ibn Arabi's works.<br />This book--and others like it, for some reason like to depict the great Sufi Shaykh Ibn Arabi as a perrenialist in his beliefs. This is totally wrong as Ibn Arabi category states in his magnus opus his belief in the traditional doctrine of the Ahle SunnaH w'al JamaaH (Sunni Islamic orthodoxy) which is totally opposed to the idea of the validity of all religions.<br />Because of this vital flaw in this work, I advise people to keep away from it despite its good points as one will be left with an incorrect view of Hazrat Shaykh al Akbar's ideas. The traditional sufis do not even let their discipless tudy Ibn Arabi until they have reached a certain high stage in their own spiritual journey as to do so is to invite confusion which is clearly what has happened to the self-declared Orientalist &quot;interpreters&quot; of Ibn Arabi (quds sirruhu)...	2000-10-17
US	49918446	R15OKHJD4PHPFY	1570626456	680229023	I Am Wind You Are Fire: The Life and Work of Rumi	Books	5	35	39	N	N	Wonderful, poetic, biography of the great Mawlana Rumi.	This book is the best biography of Mawlana Jalal uddin Rumi (may his secret be sanctified!) that I have read in the English language to date. The prose itself is absolutely wonderful and is almost poetry in itself!  Added to this is Prof. Schimmel's intimate knowledge of the works and life  of Mawlana Rumi which she does a wonderful job of presenting. Also, unlike  other Orientalist interpreters of Sufism, she firmly places Rumi within the  orthodox Islamic framework and ideology/world-view where he belongs. Her  translations of his poems are also delightful. This book is highly  recommended for all those Muslim and non-Muslim who are interested in the  life and works of one of the greatest Saints to ever walk this earth.	2000-07-26
US	49918446	R14B027K4VR62I	1882216148	456257810	The Proper Conduct of Marriage in Islam (Adab an-Nikah): Book 12 of Ihya 'Ulum ad-Din	Books	5	6	6	N	N	The definitive guide to marriage based on classical Islam.	This book written by the venerable &quot;Proof of Islam&quot; and great scholar, theologian and Sufi Imam Abu Haamid al Ghazzali is a superb work full of Qura'nic ayats, hadiths of the Beloved Messenger and sayings of the  great awliya and ulama vis-a-vis the important subject of marriage. The  Imam details with, in his unmatched style, all the important aspects of  marriage including the spiritual aspects.<br />A must read and a book all  Muslims should have! Beautifully presented by Al Baz publications.<br />May  Allah bless the soul of Imam Ghazzali!	2000-07-06
US	49918446	RXM3M6B3GJ84U	1883991293	19255684	The Unlimited Mercifier: The Spiritual Life and Thought of Ibn 'Arabi	Books	4	11	20	N	N	Well-written,but flawed, biography of Shaykh-e-Akbar.	786<br />I came across this book in a bookshop in Oxford a while ago and was immediately struck by the striking cover which depicts a statue of Ibn Arabi from a Spanish museum. Certainly the Shaykh al Akbar was a most  beautiful and strikingly handsome man if this sculpture is his true  likeness. Of course the great Sufis true greatness lay in his spirituality  as he was one of those rare human beings: a perfectly realised human, a  insaan al kaamil, a Perfect Human, and thus a mirror to the Divine.<br />This  book has two parts, each told in alternate chapters. The first is a  chronological depiction of the main events in Ibn Arabi's amazing life (may  Allah bless him). The writing is lucid and clear and the facts of course  are fascinating as we read about his early years, his life in Seville, his  first steps on the sufi path and then of his journey eastwards to the  Maghrib and the Middle East. <br />The other half of the book (the alternate  chapters) deal with the major principles of Ibn Arabi's sufism and ideas  including wahdat ul wajood. Unfortunately, here the author, like most  Orientalist commentators of Ibn Arabi, being from outside the Islamic Sufi  tradition, make some unintentional generalisations/deductions about the  exact nature of the beliefs of the Shaykh al Akbar which are a bit  confusing, a certainly full of danger for the uninitiated Muslim. Most of  it is good but a few sections are problematic. <br />Overall, a good source  about the life of this perfect human--but for those who want to try anmd  decipher the mysteries he writes about in his works--i'm afraid such  knowledge cannot be explained by anyone except those who have made similar  spiritual journeys themselves without leading to a bit of confusion. <br />In  short, you must find a true Shaykh!	2000-07-06
US	49918446	R1Z8WX1ITEOBM3	0934905347	460038595	The Naqshbandi Sufi Way: History and Guidebook of the Saints of the Golden Chain	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Superb history of the Naqshbandiyya-Khalidiya Chain...	This book by Shaykh Hisham is a wonderfully produced and poetic work, beautifully presented, about the Most High Naqshbandiyya Order of Sufis. It gives detailed biographies--not available elsewhere in English--of some of  the greatest Muslim saints who were part of this chain. Also, as the  Naqshbandiyya Order is uniform up to Hazrat Muhammad Mas'um (May Allah  sanctify his secret!) in the names of its Masters, only then splitting up  into different sub-orders, this is a good history book also of the  Naqshbandiyya in general and of the Naqshbandiyya-Khalidiyya in particular.  Great!	2000-03-27
US	49918446	R1XPPF418KO7P6	1570032017	538702835	Sufi Heirs of the Prophet: The Indian Naqshbandiyya and the Rise of the Mediating Sufi Shaykh (Studies in Comparative Religion)	Books	4	13	13	N	N	Scholarly study of Hazrat Jamaat Ali Shah &amp; the Naqshbandis	This book fulfills two roles: it provides a very good history of the Naqshbandi Sufi Order in general and it also looks in detail at the life of one of the greatest Sufi saints of the 19th/20th century Sayyedina Ameer al  Millat Grandshaykh Pir Sayyid Jama'at Ali Shah Naqshbandi (may Allah be  pleased with him) of Alipur Sharif, Pakistan, as a case study. It is  a  welcome first look at this great saint and also it gives detailed  information on Naqshbandi Sufi practices and beliefs. It should appeal to  all those interested in tassawuf and also of religion in the Subcontinent  as well as to the millions of admirers and disciples of Grandshaykh, Hazrat  Amir al Millat who was the Ghawth [spiritual helper] of his age. I gave it  only 4 stars just because in style it is very academic and meant for the  specialist student of Sufism and not for the lay-person; yet with a bit of  application all can benefir from this book and discover real Islam from a  Master.	2000-03-27
