US	49910086	R146C2KCY3JA6K	0595221289	306723131	The Shape of a Man: A Novella and Five Stories	Books	5	1	1	N	N	THE SHAPE OF THINGS TO COME	One of lifes civilized pleasures is reading a well-crafted short story, so its gratifying to witness the apparent revival of literary short fiction as general entertainment.  Maybe the Internet with its myriad e-zines is partly responsible: a market now exists for this once dying art.  If thats the case, its good news for writers like Randall Ivey, who turn out stories as polished and professional as Sherwood Anderson or D.H. Lawrence.<br />Most of the work in THE SHAPE OF A MAN: A NOVELLA AND FIVE STORIES has been previously published in a variety of anthologies and literary magazines.  This collection showcases Iveys versatility and originality.  In the poignant novella, The Shape of a Man, a youth struggles to live up to the Southern ideal of manhood as he and his father unravel the secret behind the brutalization of a simpleton farmhand.<br />I wanted to stall but didnt.  Here stood another test of manliness, another chance to limn the courage of my father.  I couldnt let myself be repulsed by the mans gory face and shirtfront nor by the stains of blood hed left on our porch.  There was a job to be done. <br />In Midnight a God-fearing woman is tempted to lust by a mysterious stranger. ...<br />The mood of these tales varies from ironic to slightly gothic; these are morsels to tempt a sophisticated palate.<br />Ivey writes smoothly, almost effortlessly; his greatest talent seems to lie in capturing the unique voice of each of his charactersno small gift when you figure many of those characters are women, and all of them are individual.<br />The next obvious step here is a novel, and, by the look of things, it ought to be worth the wait	2002-11-08
US	49910086	R39DGRNM03R4VP	1583485511	108782010	Holding Me Together: Essays and Poems, 1983-1999	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Nicely done!	Typically collections of \\"Gay\\" essays are by well-known columnists like Bruce Bawer or Michael Thomas Ford, so it's rather refreshing to read a collection by an ordinary citizen with nothing more to recommend him than insight, intelligence and sensitivity.  Through poetry and a series of mini-essays within a larger essay, Holding Me Together offers a commonsense perspective on what it means to be homosexual in the 21st Century. <br />The poetry is quite lovely; in particular \\"Chasing Seagulls,\\" \\"Detour,\\" \\"Sock Poem,\\" \\"Pharisee\\" and \\"Home,\\" but most of the collection is devoted to the essays.<br />Simolke writes well (as one would expect from the author of THE ACORN STORIES), with a mild-mannered logic that nonetheless neatly skewers some of the most beloved clichés about GLBT persons: \\"they just haven't met the right person;\\" \\"they recruit;\\" \\"they live that gay lifestyle;\\" \\"it's against nature;\\" \\"God didn't create Adam and Steve.\\"  <br />In \\"If there's nothing wrong with it why is it illegal,\\" which is part of the longer essay \\"Reactions to Homophobia,\\" Simolke writes: \\"As if it weren't bad enough that fundamentalists try to boss all their fellow mortals around, they also try to boss God around.  They keep telling Him which groups of people He can love, which religious systems He can support, which marriages He can bless, which gender He can see as superior, which candidate He can endorse, which styles of music He can allow for religious lyrics, which musical instruments He can allow in places of worship, which styles of clothing He can condone, etc.  That list could go on forever.  If you want to boss God around, that's your folly.  But I won't let you control my life or my mind.\\"<br />In his exploration of what it is to be gay, Simolke manages to touch on a more fundamental truth: what it is to be human.	2001-09-08
US	49910086	R1DUOGE5REYM3Z	1583481052	122287279	The Acorn Stories	Books	5	5	5	N	N	From tiny acorns...	\\"Welcome to Acorn, population 21,001, the Texas town with a little name and a big heart.\\"<br />In this slim collection of 16 stories Duane Simolke introduces us to Acorn, Texas: \\"the historical West Texas town of Acorn! Enjoy the German festival, a high school football game, homemade apple pie from the Turner Street Cafe, and the cool shade of a hundred-year-old oak tree. Just be careful, because in Acorn the sky is always falling.\\"  I don't know if there really is an Acorn, Texas; I don't suppose it matters.  There's a little Acorn in every small town.<br />These wry little tales of intertwining lives remind one a little of Sherwood Anderson's WINESBURG, OHIO, but the citizens of Acorn are less freakish, more down to earth.  Here live Regina and Dirk, looking for love in all the wrong places; gay teacher Chandler Davis, who though deaf, understands more than most; and Morgana Le Fay, the matchmaking cat.<br />My only quibble with this charming collection of gentle and ironic tales is that Simolke seemed to cut away at pivotal moments in his characters' lives only to return once the shootin' was over.  I wanted a little more!<br />Still, it's a small quibble.  If you liked WINESBURG, OHIO or the SPOON RIVER ANTHOLOGY, rejoice.  There's a new spinner of small town tales, of the little trials and triumphs that make a town a legend.  From tiny acorns...	2001-09-08
US	49910086	R2TNVIK4F77SCT	1583483381	514955979	Stein, Gender, Isolation, and Industrialism : New Readings of Winesburg, Ohio	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Refreshing and original	What a pleasure to read a dissertation embracing the poetry and passion of simple language as well as the art of old-fashioned story-telling exemplified by the often underrated Sherwood Anderson.<br />In seven chapters Dr. Simolke (whose lyrical collection THE ACORN STORIES was clearly influenced by Stein and Anderson) examines themes of alienation, sexuality and gender in Anderson's masterpiece WINESBURG, OHIO.<br />Bringing fresh perspective to Anderson's best known work (considered by critics to be a forerunner of modern fiction with its focus on &quot;real folks&quot; and small town America of the early 20th Century), Simolke candidly explores sexual subtext.  <br />In &quot;More Than Man or Woman&quot; he writes, &quot;I call attention to all this terminology because Anderson transcends those societal perceptions of gayness; his use of gay themes has little to do with sex and everything to do with human contact.&quot;<br />Do we need still one more analysis of the work of another dead white guy?  Yes, most certainly, when it is as refreshingly and unabashedly enthusiastic as Simolke's.  Criticized as being sentimental and outdated, WINESBURG becomes relevant again in this unapologetic and insightful re-reading.	2000-12-13
US	49910086	R3HH9164C1GNUI	0312206348	907804655	Are You Nuts? (A Tom & Scott Mystery)	Books	3	7	8	N	N	NUTCASE #7	One morning in 1989 gay school teacher Tom Mason unlocked his Chicago classroom and opened the door to one of the most successful mystery franchises in gay fiction--the real mystery being the apparent popularity  of this implacably mediocre series.<br />And yet there is much to be said for  Zubro's work.  His plotting, though predictable, is crisp and clean, a  balance of action and analysis, with all loose ends tidily knotted.   Through the (currently) eight books of the series--not even counting the  Paul Turner series--Zubro worked out a formula which has served him well,  although his characters, ex-Viet Nam vet and high school teacher Tom Mason,  and southern baseball star Scott Carpenter, never evolve.  When we first  meet them they have already been a couple for eight years.  Scott, we are  given to understand, is initially closeted, but it never puts much strain  on their relationship.  The differences in their personalities are never  explored--possibly because there aren't any.  The books are written in a  passionless, simplistic style ideal for teaching English in ESL  courses.<br />In ARE YOU NUTS?, the seventh book of the series, Tom echoes his  1989 entrance by finding a body in the school library.  (No wonder the PTA  is in an uproar; it probably has less to do with Tom's orientation than the  fact the man is a walking health hazard, an academic Jessica Fletcher  trailing death and disgrace in his wake).  As usual one of Tom's closest  friends and allies (there's still some alive?) is arrested for the murder,  and Tom and Scott (Scott, suffering mild depression--and who could blame  the guy) set off in flat-footed pursuit, following the blueprint so  successfully laid down eleven years earlier.<br />That, eleven years after Tom  Mason stumbles on his first body, there are still very few gay mystery  series' probably explains the relative popularity of Zubro's books.  It's  interesting that this series is published by the Stonewall Inn imprint and  Keith Kahla, who recently asked in &quot;Having Our Say&quot; why so many  gays seem to have abandoned the written word?  Just a clue, Keith, but  possibly if publishers offered something a little more substantial in the  way of genre fiction, readers might be more interested.	2000-07-24
US	49910086	R2WCBR6863MHYX	0854490574	458962337	Gaywyck	Books	3	26	28	N	N	A Cult Classic	&quot;HE WAS SO INNOCENT...UNTIL HE FELL CAPTIVE TO THE BROODING MASTER AND SINISTER SECRETS OF GAYWYCK.&quot;<br /> Uh huh.<br />I gots to get me some of that, thinks I, and I begin to read.  And read.  376 pages later I close  the book on the emerald-eyed Robert Whyte (&quot;Almost too beautiful to be  alive&quot;) flung into a terrifying web of danger and lust with Donough  Gaylord (&quot;the epitome of elegance and sophistication&quot;), the  brooding master of Gaywyck.<br />In classic gothic story dynamic, neurotic and  sickly seventeen-year old Robert is hired to catalogue the enormous library  at the great secluded mansion of Gaywyck in turn of the century (last  century) Long Island.  It's a given that Robert falls under the spell of  the master of Gaywyck, &quot;New York's most elegible bachelor,&quot; a man  possessed of &quot;perfect dark Irish beauty&quot; and a split personality.   What follows is standard gothic procedure: sinister servants, secret  passages, threatening missives, nervous collapses, apparitions, family  secrets, gay sex...<br />Itself like a gothic heroine urgently crying out for  rescue, never has a book so begged for rewrite.  GAYWYCK is a goldmine of  historical detail, chock full of literary and philosophical allusions, as  well as references to art, music and architecture.  Unfortunately, unlike  Argiri's THE GOD IN FLIGHT (which was clearly influenced HUGELY by this  novel), here the impressive research overwhelms the convoluted plot.  This  is so often the problem with historical fiction.  Instead of subtly weaving  in period details (as one would find with novels actually written in the  era), the book turns into a tutorial.<br />Another problem is that, with the  possible exception of the cat, everyone in the book is a freak.  Not very  likable freaks at that.  GAYWYCK is peopled by mannerisms and nervous tics  as opposed to fleshed-out characters.  It's hard to tell if our  protagonists act in or out of character because their characters are so  sketchy, but certainly they enjoy the most unsatisfying and unwholesome  interaction--even for the gothic genre.<br />Still, the book is a classic  (mostly from its position is a milestone in gay literature) and worth  reading.  I suspect its true long-run value lies in its serving as  inspiration for writers who followed.	2000-07-23
US	49910086	R3LSMG4XL3Z7S0	0750909471	793261777	The Jewel of Seven Stars (Pocket Classics)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Mummy Dearest	&quot;Hither the Gods come not at any summons.  The Nameless One has insulted them and is forever alone.  Go not nigh, lest their vengeance wither you away!&quot;<br />There are certain story elements I can't resist:  Egyptology is one of them.  Throw in a mummy's curse and I can be convinced  to do all sorts of reckless things--like buying SPHINX, that appalling  movie with Lesley-Anne Down.  Thus I came to read THE JEWEL OF SEVEN STARS  even though it was written by Bram Stoker, the author of DRACULA (vampires  being one of my least favorite story elements).<br />Originally published in  1903, JEWEL tells the story of barrister Malcolm Ross who is summoned in  the dead of night by a mysterious letter from lovely Margaret Trelawny, the  daughter of a famed Egyptologist.  Mr. Trelawny has sunk into a trance-like  state following an attack by an unknown assailant--the only clue, the  lingering odor of &quot;Nard and Circassia's balmy smells.&quot;  Trelawny  has left strict instructions that in the event of such an attack he is  never to be left alone, and no one must remove the peculiar Egyptian bangle  around his wrist.<br />Slowly, with dragging mummy footsteps, this horror  classic journeys its restrained way to its inevitable climax.  Though  possibly a bit slow and bloodless for modern audiences, I think Stoker gets  full marks.  True, the characters are recognizable Edwardian stereotypes:  the blushing, virginal heroine, the stalwart hero, the obsessed patriarch,  etc.  Nor is there much mystery as to where this is all leading.  All the  same, JEWEL is an entertaining read; the ideal choice for a muggy summer  night.  A number of scenes, like the discovery of the tomb in the cliffs  and the story's final tragic zenith, remain in one's memory like the  persistent scent of bitumen drifting in an open window...	2000-07-23
US	49910086	R2PR432ZHT45DQ	0140254137	499567339	The God in Flight	Books	5	17	20	N	N	FLIGHT OF FANCY	Eighteen years is a long time to labor on a novel.  Possibly too long; by its completion, two different people will have worked on it.  Which might explain some of the odd lapses in narrative, and emotional disconnects in  Argiri's magnum opus.<br /> Yet what a beautiful, beautiful book!  Written in  sumptuous Victorian style, reminiscent of Wharton or James, Argiri tells  the tale of a 19th Century illicit love affair between Klionarios, an  ascetic Yale art professor, and Simion Satterwhite, a precocious  scholarship student who embodies Klionarios's artistic vision.<br />THE GOD IN  FLIGHT is filled with lovely, long sensuous passages, such as when the  traumatized Simion wakens in the professor's house: &quot;The table by his  bed held a tray, upon which there were an ice bucket filled with melting  snow around a pitcher of what proved to be orange juice, a glass, a bell,  and a silver plate of grapes.  He took two grapes and savored their  sweet-tart astringency.  This room was like some chamber of temptation in a  fairy tale, so apt it was, so suited; it was as if someone who knew  everything about colors and fabrics and furniture had climbed inside his  head and found out what he would like best, even before he knew  himself.&quot;<br />No matter that the effects of Reconstruction and  Emancipation are not addressed here.  This is romance with a capital  &quot;R.&quot;  A passionate and lyrical novel (though a bit silly), every  winter I turn to its comforting literary conventions, just as surely as I  return to flannel sheets and schnapps in my cocoa.  But it is a strange  novel, brushing over what should surely have been pivotal moments in the  developing relationship of its protagonists, yet lingering lovingly on the  thoughts of side characters.  For me, there is really not enough plot, and  the novel fails to adequately explore the central characters--and Argiri's  characters are most definitely book people and not real people--but they  are appealing and memorable nevertheless.<br />The most dismaying aspect of  THE GOD IN FLIGHT is the realization that if it took Argiri nearly twenty  years to write this, how long will it take for her next novel?	2000-07-22
US	49910086	R2QT7VM0HEW08K	0670838268	609619267	A Country of Old Men: The Last Dave Brandstetter Mystery	Books	3	4	5	N	N	When Bad Things Happen to Good Characters	Nearly all his friends dead or put to pasture, lured out of retirement for one last case, gay PI Dave Brandstetter decides to investigate the unlikely tale of a little boy who claims he witnessed a murder and was then  kidnapped and beaten by a mysterious woman named 'Rachel.'  Sure enough,  there does turn out to be a dead man: Cricket Shales, a first-rate  guitarist but less than efficient drug dealer.  Pursuing this case against  the wishes of his lover Cecil, an ailing Dave is dragged into the  underbelly of the music industry, and the grim world of street drugs.  As  one would expect from Hansen, this is a sharply written, effective and  clever detective story. I do think good old Dave deserves a more  imaginative fate--in fact, I'd have liked to see Hansen start the book with  the last few pages of story, and flash us back to Dave's first ever case in  post-Chandler Los Angeles.  Then we could start the adventures of Dave all  over again!  Okay, I admit this is the long goodbye I'd have been happy to  postpone permanently.	2000-04-22
US	49910086	R228GTGBQEA7K4	0805010556	835625164	Nightwork	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Till Dangers Troubled Night Depart	Book seven in the Brandstetter series finds David comfortably settled with a still-fragile Cecil, and looking into the death of a trucker; a trucker who was on the wrong road at the wrong time of night--with a bomb taped to  his rig.  Hansen writes classic hard-boiled PI novels which start out in  prosaic fashion, but weave and wind to brutal and surprising conclusions.   The writing is always spare and vivid, with shrewd characterization, snappy  dialog, and 'atmosphere' you can smell, touch, and taste.  One of the few  writers who actually merits comparisons to Chandler and MacDonald, Hansen  also set the gold standard for the sub-genre of 'gay mystery.'  NIGHTWORK  is one of my favorites for the interaction between Dave and Cecil, and the  chiaroscuro of Dave's private life and the grim world he works in.	2000-04-22
US	49910086	R167F5I75XAVB5	0805007237	306898143	The Man Everybody Was Afraid of	Books	4	1	1	N	N	I Shot The Sheriff	Once described by the Los Angeles Times as &quot;the most exciting and effective writer of the classic California private-eye novel working today,&quot; Joseph Hansen writes smart, smooth PI novels in the  hard-boiled tradition--with one difference.  Insurance investigator David  Brandstetter is homosexual.  Not so amazing these days, but something of a  shocker in the 1970's when the first Brandstetter novel appeared.  In book  four of the critically aclaimed series, Brandstetter is investigating the  murder of Police Chief Ben Orton, a man who seemed to hate everybody, and  whom everybody seemed to hate.  Gay activist Cliff Kerlee has been  arrested, but Brandstetter isn't so sure, and if he can't be convinced, he  may have to be killed...	2000-04-22
US	49910086	R1BZFT8LOVJSYT	0060117516	396708596	Death claims	Books	5	2	2	N	N	None had ever died there, a natural death...	Dave Brandstetter, a claims investigator for Medallion Life Insurance Company, is checking into bookseller John Oat's 'death by misadventure.'  The misadventure was a drowning that took place in the ocean.  At night.   During a rainstorm.  After Oats decided to change his insurance policy so  that his son wouldn't inherit.  Yeah, it's a little suspicious, and it  doesn't help that the son is now missing.  Maybe this doesn't sound that  thrilling (insurance claims? ), but Hansen, frequently compared to Hammett,  Chandler and MacDonald, catches your attention from the first line:  &quot;Arena Blancas was right.  The sand that bracketed the little bay was  so white it hurt the eyes.&quot;  And he never lets go, never wanders off  track through an unexpectedly twisty tale of betrayal and murder.  Hansen  is that rarity, a brilliant stylist who actually has something to say.   Sure, the message is unrelentingly liberal, but it is also tempered with  commonsense and compassion.  Most impressively, the man knows how to tell a  good story.  DEATH CLAIMS, book two in the Brandstetter series, is one of  the best.	2000-04-22
US	49910086	R2RQRM3PGOWLZZ	0914378961	432334478	Backtrack	Books	5	13	14	N	N	A Night of Memories and Sighs	Seventeen-year old Alan Tarr lies in an abandoned beach house,his legs in casts, waiting for the man who tried to kill him....BACKTRACK is beautifully written with fully-realized (memorable) characters, exquisitely evoked mood, and biting humor.  Written in the days when authors didn't have to pad with extraneous subplots and other filler, every word counts in this little gem of a book; if I had to pick my favorite Hansen mystery it would be BACKTRACK, and the story of Alan Tarr who comes to Hollywood to discover what became of his father....Effectively alternating between 'Now' and 'Then' chapters, we follow Alan's journey of discovery...to the inevitable showdown.	2000-04-21
US	49910086	R2BP1NWZL8GXRA	1873741308	643709068	The Cruelty of Silence	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Oh, the pain, the pain!	A year ago, Lol's lover Alex disappeared a la THE VANISHING. Lol spends all his time searching for Alex (which seems mostly to entail running classifieds and tacking up flyers).  Meanwhile the cops suspect Lol himself  of murdering Alex, and Alex's family is trying to evict Lol from the home  he shared with Alex for years.  Lol has lost his job, and spent every dime  (farthing?) he had on trying to find Alex.  He has alienated most of his  friends and acquaintances with his unending agonizing, however as our story  begins he is finally coming to terms with the knowledge that Alex is dead.  Or is he?  The discovery of a secret computer file left by Alex, sets Lol  off again (Oh, God!).  A plot is certainly buried here, buried in 285 pages  of introspection and artificial dialog, but we never get to touch it, feel  it, taste it.  A curious emotional detachment colors THE CRUELTY OF  SILENCE, a detachment acerbated by the really annoying device of randomly  interrupting the narrative with screenplay format.  Not only does this  jarring switch disturb the story flow, it's so...so pretentious. Although  the painful theme of loss, fear and abandonment manages to propel the  reader along--very nearly touching the heart--ultimately this is the epic  saga of one man's internal (and interminable) whining.	2000-03-30
US	49910086	R3ILZ7CXQVIK5L	0352333022	90739707	Shame	Books	3	6	7	N	N	Let Shame Say What it Will	&quot;They were on the bridge by now.  Behind them was the magnificent view of the San Fernando Valley, reaching from Burbank right around to Northridge.  THE GOOD WEATHER WAS AGAIN ALLOWING EXCELLENT  VISIBILITY.&quot;  I love this.  Clearly Pelham has never spent five  minutes in LA, but hey, you gotta love the guy for trying.  And not just  with the smog, with PLOT.  Rebel that he clearly is, Pelham defied the Idol  Book submission guidelines and dared to write a plot!  Here it is: British  citizen Martyn Townsend (a little nod there to Master Larry?) is  vacationing in LA when he meets and falls in love with Scott (they just  have enough time to work it in between six or seven other dangerous  liasions).  But then Scott is killed (bummer!) and Martyn believes Scott's  mysterious ex-boyfriend Peter could be involved.  Martyn heads for London  to find Peter--while someone else hunts Martyn.  Pelham has an easy, breezy  style--and a tendancy to veer off into dialog (internal and external) that  has nothing to do with sex.  Ain't nothing to be shamed about here!	2000-03-11
US	49910086	R1U8UR1LHM64DH	0854492917	110956472	Ice, Wind and Fire	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Shake, Rattle and Roll	Investigative journalists (although they seem more like cops or special agents) and long-time lovers, Alex Connor and Greg Farris are taking a much needed holiday in sunny Jamaica when they discover the submerged wreckage of an airplane--containing the pilot's skeleton.  On the way to report  their find to the local police they are nearly run off the road by  gun-toting thugs.  The pace never lets up from there.  In many ways, ICE,  WIND AND FIRE is Keegan's strongest book.  He evokes a strong sense of  place and time (Disco, anyone?), and the characters of Alex and Greg are  sharply-drawn and very real (as another reviewer noted, they bear marked  resemblance to the Stone and Jarrat characters in EQUINOX and DEATH'S  HEAD--which is not a criticism; whatever works is good).  These lads are  people Keegan knows inside and out, and their relationship rings true  because of it.  In the vein of STORM TIDE, this is another  breathlessly-paced, action/adventure romance (Romance with a capital 'R')  from the writer who is making the genre his own.	2000-03-11
US	49910086	R1U69XK2ZI5FDB	0854492860	855805826	An East Wind Blowing	Books	2	7	7	N	N	And They Call The Wind Maria...	This is probably the best historical romance Keegan has done, and yet it is the least interesting to me.  Despite being well-written and meticulously researched, AN EAST WIND BLOWING (and I even like the title)  left me cold.  The problem is the characters, and I don't think it has  anything to do with their ages (check out Knowles' A SEPARATE PEACE or  Grimsley's DREAM BOY if you think adolescents can't be turned into complex  and appealing characters).  What we seem to have here are two  character-less characters.  Keegan gives us Bryn, &quot;the son of an  overweening lord.&quot;  My take, given the info Keegan has shared: Bryn is  (should be?) arrogant, spoilt, rigid in code and ethics.  And then we have  Ronan, a &quot;common freeman,&quot; who appears (from the description we  have) to be rebellious, adaptable and a little insecure.  And this feels  like a workable character dynamic: room for both of them to learn and grow  and fall in love.  But it doesn't happen.  There is no conflict, no  resolution and therefore no character development (which is not to say that  there isn't plenty of outside conflict: i.e., battles against the barbarian  Angles--this novel is as dependably action-packed as all Keegan's work).   These protags do not actually act OUT of character, the problem seems to be  no personalities at all.  And after all, this is a romance; character is  paramount.  The characters of the crippled Dafydd and Selgi are more  textured and memorable in the fleeting glimpse we have of them than our  central characters are in the space of an entire book.  I'm thinking that a  successful romance (het or gay) needs a plot line (and possibly a theme)  with a beginning, climax and resolution, and to me that means some kind of  growth.  I'm a huge fan of Keegan's work, and I think this would be an easy  fix for such a talented writer.  With a few brush strokes we could have two  fully realized characters fighting the Angles, fighting each other and  fighting their own hearts.  Same story, same resolution, but a more  interesting journey.	2000-03-11
US	49910086	R3CAD0WTE4DPKS	0352332735	29861150	Slaves of Tarne (Idol Series)	Books	1	22	25	N	N	The Truth Shall Set You Free	Lemme share a little something I learned writing romance for women (that's right--want to make something of it?) Sometimes less is more.  Sometimes what the writer leaves out is more interesting than what the writer puts  in.  Granted, that SOMETIMES is a big sometimes (as big as some of the  appendages in Neale's SLAVES OF TARNE), a big, fat, qualified SOMETIMES.   But in this case--and in the case of 99% of m/m erotica--less is more.  In  Slaves of Tarne we have (besides the jarring constant switch from third to  first person narrative) an undefined place and time.  The narrator mentions  'electricity in the air,' and glass doors, and yet people are drinking ale  out of tankards and wearing cloaks.  But okay, I'll go with it.  I'm caught  by the skillfully handled eroticism in the first scene between Pascal and  the beautiful, hypnotic and crazed Caspar.  But then the story switches to  Denton and then Pascal and then Troy and then Pascal and then...you get it.   Heck, everybody gets it.  Because that's all this book is.  Caspar takes  beautiful boys to his S/M version of Fantasy Island, and misuses them (in  graphically depicted loving detail), getting ever closer to killing  someone, and the big question is, will Pascal manage to tear himself away  in time?  Every scene, every thought, every conversation is about sex.  And  yet I complain.  See, I have a fantasy too, and that is that porn can be  blended with plot and even dialog to create something called a story (aka  'erotic fiction') which would be satisfying for both the mind AND body.	2000-03-11
US	49910086	R2UJTW4NVAUMCP	0917342488	370895358	Pretty Boy Dead: A Novel	Books	5	19	19	N	N	HANSEN IS, AS HANSEN DOES.	I love this book.  Originally published as KNOWN HOMOSEXUAL, then STRANGER TO HIMSELF, PRETTY BOY DEAD was Hansen's first mystery novel, written under the pseudonym of James Colton.  This is everything a mystery novel should be.<br />Briefly, this is the story of Steve who is young, bright and black.  Steve's family has all but disowned him, in part due to his marriage (now cracking apart), and partly due to a play Steve wrote.  With Steve's future as a playwright indefinitely on hold, Steve has only his love -- Coy Randol -- to keep him warm (which is the equivilent of saying the only good thing is one's life is one's addiction to heroin).  Then Coy gets his cute little self murdered, and Steve is the main suspect.<br />This might sound a little dreary, but it's not.  For one thing the plot is a classic, and the characters are believable and fresh, not those painfully familiar stereotypes that people most mystery novels (Hansen is like the zen master of characterization: a sentence or two and you swear you know this person).  For another thing, PRETTY BOY DEAD is hypnotic, baked in that old Angeleno atmosphere, that Chandleresque ambiance.  Every detail--well, I just wish everybody in this genre wrote this marvellously.	1998-01-26
US	49910086	R3V4PGN7SHR5X2	0385482353	42259480	Revision of Justice	Books	5	0	0	N	N	THERE'S NO BUSINESS LIKE SHOW BUSINESS	This just goes to show how subjective Reader Reviews are.  I preferred REVISION OF JUSTICE to SIMPLE JUSTICE.  While I could admire SIMPLE JUSTICE with a clinical detachment, REVISION OF JUSTICE touched my emotions.<br />Possibly this one is a little too in-your-face for mainstream readers?  But as far as the Justice character being a pathetic loser--well, that's kind of the point.  Justice is a lost soul in search of salvation.  He gets his chance at it in this sequel, when he takes on the task of clearing AIDS-stricken Danny Romero of the murder of his Hollywood-wannabe roommate.  And regardless of Justice's character flaws, Danny is certainly sympathetic.  It's a little bit his story too.<br />Wilson has a bad habit of telegraphing his punches, but the strength of these books doesn't lie in the plot.  Wilson's strength is in capturing the moment: the vivid scene that remains imprinted on the mental retina, the memorable phrase that echos in the mind after the last page is turned.	1998-01-16
US	49910086	R2NBYSVNU725P5	0312093535	408916102	The Night G.A.A. Died	Books	5	4	4	N	N	toujours gai archy	This is one of my all time favorite &quot;gay mysteries.&quot;  I'm not even exactly sure why, because by the end, what with the F.B.I. and the C.I.A. and the K.G.B., the plot does seem to have taken a sharp detour and sped right off the edge of the map.  Still there is something classic about THE NIGHT G.A.A. DIED.<br />Ricardo writes clean, effective prose in a wry tone that gives this novel, set in the militant 1970s, a nostalgic, almost poignant feel.  It feels real, from the waterfront trucks to the Y.M.C.A., in the way that black and white movies seem more real than color.<br />Another plus for me: vivid characterizations.  I'll follow a plot just about anywhere if I like the characters enough.  Smart and sardonic, ex-cop Archie Cain would have made a great series protagonist.  And the totally closeted, boyish Johnny is Archie's perfect foil.  How disappointing we never get to see their relationship evolve, or follow their further adventures, but seven years later it is probably too much to hope for a sequel.	1998-01-12
US	49910086	R12AWRXB6IHAYZ	0854492569	96303346	White Rose of Night	Books	4	8	8	N	N	That's SIR Wandering Willie to you.	Think THE PERSIAN BOY meets THE PRINCE AND THE PAGE.  A couple of things keep WHITE ROSE OF NIGHT from being one of Mel Keegan's better books, and it grieves me to point them out, but then it grieved me to read them too.<br />Fifteen year-old Paul Delgado, our narrator, signs on as squire to Sir Edward of Aethelstan, a Saxon knight &quot;who likes a comely youth,&quot; bound for the Holy Land and the Crusades.  So far so good.<br />Now ask yourself why anyone would want to read a novel set in the time of the Crusades?  Could it be the adventure, romance and pageantry with which knights in shining armor and their mortal combats are traditionally (and--alas--mistakenly, we now know with the perspicacity of modern sensibility) viewed?  Well of course!  We want IVANHOE from a gay perspective.  Idylls of the Queen.  We want action heroes chock full of chivalry and honor and sacrifice and all that pomp and glory stuff so sadly out of fashion.  But WHITE ROSE OF NIGHT isn't that book, and the politically correct (or at least indulged) viewpoints of its central characters grate like fingernails on a buckler.<br />Zounds!  Central characters.  We've got the single-minded (one might say fixated) Paul, the boy who cain't say no, a lad with a penchant for getting lost in sandstorms.  Paul becomes annoying early on--to the point where one wishes the same fate might befall him that befell young Richard, the saintly hero of THE PRINCE AND THE PAGE.  Then we've got Sir Edward, who at best is vacillating and weak.  Sir Edward spends a lot of time brooding over his second-class citizen status (Boo hoo, Sir Saxon Wolf.  Now you know how the Britons felt) and pouring over maps.  He is a noble knight who hates bloodshed, hates the Crown and hates the Church.  Sir Edward doesn't believe in the Crusade; he's only there to impress his dying father-in-law-to-be (Don't ask).  The big tension between Paul and Edward (since they share the same 20th Century worldview) is that Edward refuses tosleep with Paul through a quarter of the book for fear of being caught and castrated, etc.<br />Not that this wouldn't give pause for thought, but it is apparently the ONLY thought these gentle knights have.  Sex.  That's it.  That's the book.  Everything else is so much ermine trim.  I could go on and on picking at the seams, but that would not be constructive.  I respect the research and enthusiasm that went into this novel.  One of the promotional blurbs reads something like, &quot;the book Mel Keegan fans have been waiting for.&quot;  Suffice it to say, it's not.	1997-12-15
US	49910086	RDM7C0MC2Z320	1561840815	787651285	Pretense ... of Innocence	Books	3	2	3	N	N	That's what they ALL say.	I'm curious when a writer drops off the page after one novel.  What gives?  Do they hide out in another genre using a different pen name?  So they just have the one story to tell?  There is so little gay escapist fiction (mystery/adventure/romance) that I'm always sorry when it's a case of 'that's all he wrote.'<br />Not that PRETENSE OF INNOCENCE is a good mystery novel .  A kind of Who-is-Killing-the-Gay-Men-of-Shreveport, PRETENSE OF INNOCENCE breaks one of the supreme &quot;play fair with the reader&quot; rules (no, not that one--the other one).  But it's not a totally bad mystery novel either.  Shreveport, Louisiana makes a nice change from overused Los Angeles, the characters are distinct (from each other anyway), and there are a number of attention-getting subplots (in particular the romance of bookseller Charles and the fresh out of the closet book thief Brett).  King intelligently handles issues of prejudice, infidelity, and self-acceptance, but the pacing is disjointed, clumsy: an example is the inexplicable declarations of love from both Brett and Charles (Did I miss something?  One minute they're betraying each other to the cops, the next it's l'amour, l'amour).<br />There are lots of rough patches.  The peculiar thing is I did enjoy PRETENSE OF INNOCENCE.  Story and characters stayed in my mind--along with all those unanswered questions.  Chief among them is when is Atticus King going to take another stab at mystery writing?	1997-11-26
US	49910086	R32BZDK5S8BMUK	0440218691	752451863	Closet	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Is it dark in here or is it just me?	Emmy-winning reporter Todd Mills has the best of all worlds.  He's handsome, bright (enough), successful, and he's got a gay lover who understands why Todd's sexual orientation must be kept secret.<br />Alas, alack.  Michael is murdered and Todd's closet comes crashing down on his handsome Polish head.  Now Todd is the number one suspect and the police--especially hunky detective Steve Rawlins--seem content to look no further for Michael's killer.<br />This is a decent Who Dunnit but it could have been a lot better.  Dead lovers make regular appearances in gay mystery series'.  Few of them ever come alive (best exception to the rule: Joseph Hansen's Rod Fleming).  Michael is a ghost before he's ever dead but even so Todd does seem to get over it rather swiftly.  Furthermore, the relationship between traumatized Todd and Steve Rawlins (with his own secret agenda) seems highly unlikely.  Attraction, sex, sure.  Maybe.  But genuine caring at this stage?  I think not.  Better to have tantalyzed the reader by driving home one of those many wedges littering the plot, and taken time to develop this relationship in the course of the series.<br />Final problems (big problems: too much talk, too much reflecting, too little action, too little amateur detecting.  And only one possible villain.  Other than these, this is an entertaining read for a dark and stormy night.	1997-11-26
US	49910086	R3778AXCAQYACC	0854492119	282895537	Fortunes of War	Books	4	9	9	N	N	The things I do for Mel...	I'm a fan of Mel Keegan, one of the world's most irritatingly non-prolific writers, so I get lured into reading things I ordinarily would not.  Like--er--pirate stories.<br />In FORTUNE'S OF WAR Keegan abandons contemporary thrillers (please don't do this, Mel!) and sci fi thrillers to turn his attention to historical adventure.  This is the tale of half-Spanish mercenary Dermot Channon and his love for young Robert Armagh, the son of an English earl.  As the blurb on the back of the book puts it, &quot;The couple's adventures together on the Spanish Main make a swashbuckling romance in the best gay pirate tradition.&quot;  That reads for sex, dueling, sex, sea battles, sex, revenge, deadly fevers...did I mention sex?  In short, plenty of action of all descriptions.<br />Keegan has a keen eye for sensuous detail, and a gift for creating warriors with a tender side.  His stories are wildly imaginative, romantic and fun.<br />So am I now a fan of pirate stories?  No.  But I'm still a fan of Mel Keegan.	1997-11-25
US	49910086	R3K01O8OS0TTAV	0312155190	741422026	The Edith Wharton Murders: A Nick Hoffman Mystery	Books	5	6	7	N	N	IT'S DA-LICIOUS, IT'S DA-LIGHTFUL, IT'S DA-LOVELY...	What an utterly charming book!  In THE EDITH WHARTON MURDERS, the second Nick Hoffman mystery, author Lev Raphael hits his stride--and it is something to behold.  Witty, elegant and fun, this gay cosy (sub sub-genre?) details the murder and mayhem at an Edith Wharton conference hosted by SUM Lit professor, Nick Hoffman.<br />Elements that irked me in the self-conscious LET'S GET CRIMINAL, the first of this original series, are noticeably missing here.  For example, main characters Nick and (particularly) Stefan are fleshed out and much more likeable (scatty, enthusiastic, emotional Nick is fast developing into a classic).  Their relationship is explored, and I was relieved to see some fallout over the Perry Cross affair (no healthy person takes betrayal as meekly as Nick appeared to in LET'S GET CRIMINAL).<br />Raphael is refreshingly ruthless in targeting his murder victims from both old and new characters.  He sets a lively pace and keeps his amusing cast dancing, while tantalyzing the reader with mouthwatering descriptions of good music, good food, good wine and clever conversation.  And I think he makes a smart decision in keeping his mysteries non-gay specific.  Nick and the reluctant Stefan are normal, attractive guys (who happen to be gay) caught up in the extraordinary occurrence of murder.  It could happen to anyone--though probably not so entertainingly.<br />I can't wait to see what mischief Nick next gets himself--and the handsome and frequently disapproving Stefan--into.	1997-11-18
US	49910086	RQ7H3SQ681ABJ	1575661748	902187520	Flight Dreams: A Mark Manning Mystery (Mark Manning Mysteries)	Books	4	2	5	N	N	IS THAT ALL YOU BLIGHTERS CAN DO?	My goodness these chaps talk alot!  And it's all in that highflown tone reminiscent of novels from the '30s, like BETTER ANGEL (or am I thinking of GIRL OF THE LIMBERLOST?).  Mark and Neil chat about Art and Architecture and Sex and missing heiress Helena Carter (because this is, after all, a mystery).  But for all their jawing I never could gain a real fix on Neil and Mark's personalities, and that's a problem because this novel is also a romance, as well as the story of Mark Manning's coming to terms with his homosexuality.<br />Romance has become a staple of the gay mystery sub-genre.  Cool.  But if romance is going to be the subplot of choice, then shouldn't it have to meet the same criterion as, say, a Harlequin Intrigue?  Who are these guys and WHY are they in love?  Young architect Neil Waite is 39 year old journalist Mark Manning's first homosexual affair.  It is through meeting Neil that Mark accepts his own sexual orientation.  So what is it about Neil?  FLIGHT DREAMS is the first of the Mark Manning series, so perhaps Michael Croft will develop these promising characters and their relationship on a later leg of the journey.<br />As for the riddle of what did happen to the vanished airline heiress and her two prize Abyssinian cats, Craft offers a smart and satisfactory, if unsurprising answer.	1997-11-18
