US	49921140	RG8WT5C0PDFZ5	0918321859	969194333	Blues Rock Harmonica Made Easy: Everything You Need to Know	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Informative, Instructional, and Inspiring!	... Man, if you want to learn how to play harmonica in no time, just get this book. Play along with it on every page as you read through it. Just do what David Harp says, and you will be playing blues and rock on your harp quickly - and you will feel good about what you're doing. This is a REAL EASY book to understand and follow. It's like David is right there talking to you!<br />... As he says on page 10: &quot;Don't get discouraged, ever. If you're a total beginner and feel a bit clumsy and boggled, just relax, and keep the harmonica in your mouth as you read. You'll get it! If you're a more experienced non-blues or rock player who feels &quot;stuck,&quot; just remember that all players get into ruts, and a little instruction is a fine way to climb back out.&quot;<br />... Trust me, you don't need to know ANYTHING about music or harmonicas to be able to benefit from reading this book. It is EXCELLENT! It is so easy and simple! It's a shame more people do not teach what they know the way David does. I wish I had a person like David teaching me MATH in this same way when I was a kid. I would have been an astrophysicist by now! ... YOWZA! - The Aeolian Kid	2003-10-06
US	49921140	R3R09DE58HGB86	0743467078	286367179	When GOD Winks: How the Power of Coincidence Guides Your Life (The Godwink Series)	Books	4	12	18	N	N	God WINKS in Mysterious Ways!	... Some people claim that God talks to them. This is true of spiritual believers from various faiths. Many Christians often speak of the fact that the Lord spoke to them in one way or another. In &quot;the olden days,&quot; it seemed that God spoke in very dramatic and profound ways - like through a burning bush! Nowadays, it seems like we have to be ready and open to pick up on these little &quot;winks.&quot; Whatever.<br />... Anyone who has read the book of SYNCHRONICITY by Carl Jung is aware of the profound impact that &quot;coincidences&quot; and &quot;non-causal, time-related-activities&quot; have on the human psyche. They are like emotional billboards screaming: &quot;LOOK AT THIS!!!&quot; ... These winks are no ordinary bats of the eyelids. They are often deep and life-changing experiences. The author expounds on them very eloquently. His life was changed by &quot;god winks.&quot;<br />... If you, too, have ever had the unsettling experience that you were being given a message from God through some sort of &quot;funny coincidence&quot; of some kind or another and you would like to learn more about these kind of occurrences, then read this book. Squire Rushnell does a fine job at explaining it all in simple language without a lot of the new age mumbo jumbo that seems to haunt books about topics such as this one. It's an easy and inspiring read - and it just might make you feel better about that last deja-vu you had while you were going about your daily routine! ... YOWZA! - The Aeolian Kid	2003-09-11
US	49921140	R1JQ1T6QFHCP0N	0670031410	978709002	Thieves in High Places: They've Stolen Our Country--And It's Time to Take It Back	Books	5	44	49	N	N	He's Back - and with all The Facts that Shame the Elite!	... God bless Jim Hightower's courageous heart! He encourages the rest of us to pick up our crosses and start walking down the righteous path of confronting the enemy in the face. &quot;BEGONE, YE DOUR-FACED DEMONS!&quot; as Art Kleps once wrote. Now, Hightower is no fool. He walks his talk with the best of them. If anyone knows just how much we working folks are getting the shaft, it is good old Jim. His list of ENVIRONMENTAL sins, alone, that have been commited by  this administration is absolutely startling!!<br />... Just check this out from pages 94 and 95: ... &quot;HSD to the rescue! As the Homeland law was being written, corporate lobbyists suddenly got patriotic, warning that terrorists could benefit by knowing such &quot;critical infrastructure&quot; information as what chemicals a plant is using or producing. Therefore, a provision was slipped into the law prohibiting all agencies of government from releasing any such information that a corporation gives to HSD. Cute. Now any corporate lawyer who can spell L-O-O-P-H-O-L-E has an out from public disclosure - anything the corporation wants to hide can be sent to HSD and safely tucked out of sight. ... Bonus Gift: This HSD tuck-away also means that &quot;critical infrastructure&quot; information about a corporation's pollution, explosions, and other unpleasantness can't be dislodged for use in civil lawsuits that workers, neighbors, environmentalists, governments, or anyone else brings against the corporation. So why go to the expense of preventing pollution and safety problems when you can just hide them in HSD?&quot; <br />... You know, in the Greek Orthodox Church, when people recite the OUR FATHER Christian prayer, they end it with: &quot;and deliver us from the PONIROO,&quot; which does not mean &quot;evil&quot; - but SLYNESS, a kind of WICKED, sneaky intelligence that is selfish and evil, not noble and selfless. Indeed! All of the information Jim includes in this book will help to keep us from having the wool pulled over our eyes by the wicked, selfish, sly sharks who only care about their own crooked ways in order to satisfy their greedy desires through continuing to stay in power and glorifying themselves, not God or the common good. This current Rulership of Thieves ( &quot;Kleptocracia&quot; in Greek) does not exemplify how &quot;the other half lives.&quot; It's nowhere near as large as HALF! It's as small as a fraction of ONE percent, and maybe FIVE percent of our population at the most. Anyone who does not belong to this elite club of 5 percent and votes to keep them in power is committing economic suicide! ... Right-On, Jim! - The Aeolian Kid	2003-09-09
US	49921140	R1PEZHB4L1HY8B	0380807319	38857560	Walking the Bible: A Journey by Land Through the Five Books of Moses	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Practicing Peripatetic Theosis Ecstatically!	... I wish there were a book like this for EVERY religion! What a wonderful way to learn about religion in general, and the Bible in particular. Someone from every faith should write a similar book about their particular spiritual path. It would be great to have a &quot;Walking the Vedas,&quot; or &quot;Walking the Sutras,&quot; or &quot;Walking the Koran,&quot; or &quot;Walking the Tao,&quot; or even &quot;Walking with The Great Spirit.&quot; How about &quot;Walking with Aristotle, Heraclitus, Pythagoras, Socrates, and Zeno of Elea?&quot; Now, that would be something! Bruce Feiler may have started a great trend here!<br />... I found this book to be fascinating. It brings the first five books of the Bible - what Hebrew people refer to as The Torah - alive and relevant to the reader. It's like a chronological trek through biblical time; like the ultimate geography lesson in relation to the Hebrew, Christian, and Muslim God. Indeed, it brings back to life the very act of practicing peripatetic theosis ecstatically! Socrates and Aristotle would be proud. Bruce (the author) and his buddy Avner (his archaeological guide) go on a journey together that takes us all along for the ride, and we all learn more about the people and places of the Bible along the way. I simply could NOT put this book down. Once you pick it up, it grabs you like a magnet and it's hard to let go of it.<br />... Here's an example of an echange, from page 240, between the author and a young monk named Anastasis at Saint Catherine's monastery at Mount Sinai in the Middle East: &quot;And what about praying here?&quot; I said. &quot;Do you feel closer to Moses because you live here.&quot; &quot;It feels a little bit strange, &quot; he said. &quot;Because when Moses met God, he did it on this spot. 'This is holy ground,' God said. The ground is much more important than the bush.&quot; &quot;So, do you feel closer to God, too?&quot; &quot;No,&quot; he said. &quot;Wherever you are, if you are close to God, you are close. If you are far away, you are far away. It doesn't matter where you live. It matters what you feel.&quot;<br />... Page after page after page, this book is filled with inspiring and insightful reflections on the stories in the Bible and how they are brought to life in our own lives. It is a wonderful ecumenical odyssey, and a real joy to read. ... Now, who will be inspired to write: &quot;Walking with Shamen?&quot; ... YOWZA! - The Aeolian Kid	2003-08-24
US	49921140	R3GN7Y89IP4OHH	0743235495	330011595	Work It!: How to Get Ahead, Save Your Ass, and Land a Job in Any Economy	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Good Advice for Finding Work and Getting Jobs	... Allison Hemming has written a very good book packed with practical advice for finding work and getting jobs. She's an expert at dealing with the grown-up world of work. One problem I have with this book is that it appears to be very heavily slanted to getting a certain kind of work - &quot;corporate identity&quot; types of jobs in particular - without really dealing with the great, big, whole world of work available out there. &quot;Office Job&quot; hunters will love this book. The problem is that not everyone is cut-out for an office job. The other problem I have with this book is that the print is very small - and even smaller in the highlighted boxes with the gray background. It is very difficult to read at times. Nevertheless, reading this book will help anyone in their job search, if only because of all of the helpful web sites mentioned.<br />... For those cautious souls uncertain about making a change or taking a leap, the advice given on pages 275 to 279 is encouraging: &quot;The only thing scarier than living with your parents is relocating to a city where you don't know a soul. But if your heart is set on an industry that tends to be centered in one or two specific cities (like Washington, D.C. for the federal government, New York or Los Angeles for entertainment, or the San Francisco Bay Area for technology), you could be looking at pulling up stakes. So how exactly do you conduct a long-distance job search while you're still at college or stuck in your hometown living with your parents? Do you move to the city right off the bat, or do you wait until you land a job and then go? Quite simply, it depends. The biggest consideration is that four-letter word: c-a-s-h. ... To Move or Not to Move. That's the million-dollar question. If you can swing it financially and you're sure of where you want to go, it probably makes sense to just do it, even if there's no job waiting for you in your new city. Interviewers will feel more confident that you're for real if you have a local address than if you're just in town to check things out. Besides, having no money and no job will motivate you in ways you can't imagine.&quot;<br />... As the NIKE ad says: &quot;Just Do It!&quot; ... From internet searches, to networking, to resume writing, to correspondence, to interviewing, to unemployment benefits, to career counseling, to budgeting one's money - it's all here in this helpful book. Read it, and then WORK IT! ... YOWZA! - The Aeolian Kid	2003-07-21
US	49921140	R2R36UM7QF5XIT	0743233212	510295481	Them: Adventures with Extremists	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Should be made into a Hollywood Movie!!!	... If this book is never made into a Hollywood movie, it will be a very sad thing! ... Why? ... It's because this book is VERY funny - and we all NEED a good dose of what's funny right now. I'm not kidding. I'm very serious. Neither am I making fun of this EXCELLENT book or downplaying the serious intent of its basic thrust: exposing the common, bumbling, humorous humanity of all of these \\"bad guys\\" and \\"boogymen\\" out there that run rampant in the world of conspiracy theorists. Jon Ronson should be given both the Johnny Carson medal for Humor (if there is one!) as well as the Sherlock Holmes medal for Private Investigation (if there is one) - because he scores a perfect 4.0 on both counts! This book is GREAT!<br />... WHY is this book GREAT? It's great because Jon Ronson actually DID what 99 percent of us out here have only been talking about. He actually penetrated into the CORE of many of these conspiracy and anti-conspiracy (depending on your point of view) groups, met with many of their leaders, and lived to write about what he learned in order to uncover many of the hidden, inner details and/or unknown attitudes and mindsets of many of the members of these various groups. You simply cannot help falling in love with this colorful cast of characters. I mean, they're all REAL PEOPLE!!! Some of these people are very powerful worldly figures, both in and out of politics, and it is no laughing matter to say that in some cases even MILLIONS of people are influenced by what some of these powerful individuals do and say. ... Jon Ronson is a VERY funny man. He's also a very brave man - and a tenacious researcher!<br />... Well, as Don Juan says: \\"Power has a way of finding power,\\" and as my friend David says: \\"Money goes to money.\\" ... Personally, I believe that power likes to control things in order to STAY in power - and that all of this has nothing to do with DEMOCRACY at all. It has to do with CONSUMERISM - and any threats to consumerism, from the left, the right, or the middle. If there is ANY group out there that does not want to PLAY BALL and go along with CONSUMERISM, then that group is a threat to global, capitalistic consumerism. This is exactly why the psychedelics are outlawed everywhere - because they are the greatest threat to consumerism in this world, as professor David Lenson of the University of Massachusetts at Amherst rightly states in his scholarly, sociological book, ON DRUGS. There is NOTHING about Islam that prevents it from being democratic if it wanted to. There is also nothing un-American about Christian separatists. What both these groups - and more - have in common is NOT a hatred for freedom or democracy. What they all have in common is a fear of LOSING our freedoms and democracy, and strong resistance to playing ball with global elite (whoever they are as the flavor of the decade!) who want nothing more than to spread the gospel of CONSUMERISM across the globe, because it makes them all richer by minimizing responsibilities and maximizing profits - at the expense of human rights, national sovereignty, and the health of the biosphere. ... THIS is the serious undertone of this book. In the interest of balance and humorous saving grace, Jon Ronson has exposed this whole mess in a way that is a real FUN read. ... BRAVO! ... YOWZA! - The Aeolian Kid	2003-07-06
US	49921140	RIAGOL4O84VTI	0060392452	194848581	Stupid White Men ...And Other Sorry Excuses for the State of the Nation!	Books	5	6	12	N	N	Stop Feeling Guilty About Voting For Ralph Nader!	... I finally read this very funny book by Michael Moore, and I'm glad I did; because for the first time in over a couple of years I can say I have stopped feeling guilty for having voted for Ralph Nader for President in the 2000 election. ... Why?<br />... It's because of an extremely valid point - among many throughout this politically inspiring book - that Michael Moore makes on page 239. He says: \\"I could tell him that because Ralph Nader was on the ballot in the state of Washington, the majority of those 101,906 citizens who voted for Nader also voted for the Democrat for U.S. Senate. Thanks to these Nader voters, Maria Cantwell became Washington's new senator by only 2,229 votes. If you're going to blame Nader for taking votes from Gore in Florida, then you must also give credit to Nader for bringing thousands of new voters to the polls who made the difference for Cantwell - thus allowing the Democrats to force a 50-50 tie in the Senate. Then, once there was a tie, one senator from Vermont realized he suddenly had a lot of power - and used it to turn the Senate over to the Democrats by leaving the Republican Party. None of that could have happened without Nader.\\" ... An excellent point!<br />... If, like a lot of us, you're still very angry about what happened during the presidential election of 2000, and you'd like to get a better handle on how it all went down, reading this book will clear your head of a lot of the dust that still may not have settled there. Also, it will definitely inspire you to keep on fighting the good fight so that the next election does not turn into the disaster that the last one did. Michael Moore's political inspiration is contagious! ... YOWZA! - The Aeolian Kid	2003-07-06
US	49921140	R3TYGI60KP7Z6U	0452283914	569076996	The Best Democracy Money Can Buy	Books	5	8	8	N	N	... "Freedom from Want and Fear" ... INDEED !!!	... Greg Palast ends this excellent book with a little story about the medals won by his war-hero dad in World War Two. One of those medals had the following motto written on the back of it: \\"Freedom from Want and Fear.\\" This same motto could suitably serve as a stand-in for one of the guiding, founding principles of our nation, as Thomas Jefferson proclaimed in The Declaration of Independence: the right to \\"Life, Liberty, and the Pursuit of Happiness.\\" Thomas Jefferson's famous words would, indeed, seem to encapsulate the motto on the back of Greg's dad's heroically won medal. But, what do these words mean - \\"Life, Liberty and the Pursuit of Happiness,\\" and \\"Freedom from Want and Fear\\" - really? Different people read different meanings into them. <br />... Here's what I think Greg Palast thinks they mean: I think they mean that the freedom FROM want is just as important as the freedom to DO; that the freedom to live without FEAR is just as important as the freedom to live in LIBERTY; and that a life that is free from WANT and FEAR is a life that can more fully achieve the PURSUIT of HAPPINESS. I think they mean that \\"Life, Liberty, and the Pursuit of Happiness\\" cannot be truly achieved at the EXPENSE of others, only through the free will and free cooperation of others. THIS is the difference between the truly PATRIOTIC and CONSERVATIVE interpretation of these wise words and the modern, neo-liberal, \\"compassionate conservative\\" twist and spin on these sacred words. I, myself, prefer to stick with Thomas Jefferson's meaning, thank you.<br />... Greg gets deep into a lot of information that never saw the light of day in the major news media of this country - and he explains why. ... Show me where the grave of Che Guevara is dug, so I can lay a flower there! Who do these multinational millionaires think they're kidding? Do they think we're all stupid? All afraid? All so apathetic and self-concerned - or totally tired and wasted from trying to make ends meet in this KLEPTOCRACY they have developed - that we have no time left to care at all about our common fate? The class war that continues in this country from before the founding of the republic and before the Demopublicans and Republicrats gained so much power over our lives during the last four Trilateral Presidencies ( Ford, Carter, Reagan-Bush, and Clinton) is a war over WHO will have the right to live a life of \\"Life, Liberty, and the Pursuit of Happiness\\" - only the elite, or ALL of us. I was born in the COMMONWEALTH of Massachusetts. As far as I am concerned, that word implies that the wealth is held in COMMON, for the good of us all. After reading this book, it is quite clear that Greg Palast is a true, American Patriot who feels exactly the same way. ... YOWZA! - The Aeolian Kid	2003-07-06
US	49921140	R19QU5E3OOPV89	0440501601	540547382	Do What You Love, The Money Will Follow: Discovering Your Right Livelihood	Books	5	10	13	N	N	Inspirational and Vocational Advice and Stories	... I used to run my own natural food store at one time. I did it for over seven years. Before that, I ran someone else's for over three years. That's over ten years of doing work that one loves. There was only one problem: the money did NOT follow! If it had, I would still be running my store. ... Now, don't get me wrong. Money DID follow; just not ENOUGH money to support a family. ... So, I KNOW that what this book says is true. The question is: HOW TRUE? Also, I am aware of the fact that if my heart had been totally, 100% involved in my natural food store business alone - and NOT also involved in MUSIC - I may very well have made MORE money running my natural food store. Or, it could have simply been a chapter in my life that had run its course and it became time to move on - or, at least, time to do something else for a while in order to get a break from it before going back into it with renewed vigor. You know? Who can say for sure?<br />... Nevertheless, I strongly feel that the inspirational and vocational advice and stories given in this book are extremely valuable to read if one is looking for guidance and encouragement before making a career change or taking a bold step into the unknown. My recommendation: GO FOR IT!<br />... I really love what the author writes on page 134: \\"I do not remember where I heard this statement, but I have thought about it for a long time. From watching myself overcome certain unproductive attitudes and habits, and from working with many people who have either overcome similar patterns or who have such excellent work habits that they are almost assured material success, my sense is that we have a lot of control over our incomes, expenditures and livelihoods - much more control than we give ourselves credit for - and that there may indeed be a connection between our mental control and focus and our ability to make money. As long as we have a clear idea of our goals and properly use the inclinations and in-born talents that we already have, I believe that the money will follow. However, while we wait it is essential that we protect ourselves from the cultural consciousness that says we are what we earn. We certainly are not. Only the individual with a healthy, wholesome self-view will feel inwardly rich when he or she is outwardly broke. This point came home to me strongly when I was interviewing people for my first book. One of the young men that I interviewed, an environmentalist who lived on less than $$$$ per year, had so much adoration and such an ecstatic response for life that I was stirred to try to see what he had that wealthier persons lacked. Essentially, what he possessed was a peaceful, full heart, a spiritually complete nature, and an ability to see beauty all around him instead of lack.\\"<br />... Enlightenment may not pay ALL the bills, but it DOES have its benefits - one being PEACE OF MIND, which is priceless. The trick is to be enlightened, to strive toward spiritual liberation, and to be at peace as well with your ability to support all of your material needs while you also pursue the work that you love to do. That work may be more than one thing, and it may also change over time - but as long as you are on a path \\"with heart\\" (as Carlos Castaneda says), I truly believe that you will be happy doing what you do. Basically, that is the essence of this book. The author, herself, walks her talk and is a living testimony to the validity of her writings and work. ... YOWZA! - The Aeolian Kid	2003-05-20
US	49921140	R3TGF6ZHBVJ9EV	1583225498	619106332	Our Media, Not Theirs: The Democratic Struggle against Corporate Media (Open Media Series)	Books	5	10	15	N	N	Hey, we all know what Jerry Mander said - right?!	... George Harrison has warned us all about the media with his very last album - BRAINWASHED. Jerry Mander warned us years ago when he wrote: FOUR ARGUMENTS FOR THE ELIMINATION OF TELEVISION. Now, Robert W. McChesney and John Nichols are warning us yet again with OUR MEDIA, NOT THEIRS. ... Read this book if you're angry enough about the media in general to begin to DO something about it, because this book does not stop at complaining about what is bad about the media; it offers us all multiple solutions to how we can actually confront the situation and create viable alternatives to this BEAST that is devouring everything in its path like a rabid Godzilla on steroids!<br />... This is SERIOUS business! Look what they write on pages 91 and 92: \\"As in the United States, a striking and important consequence of the global commercial media market has been the attack on journalism, and the reduction in its capacity to serve as the basis for an informed, participating citizenry. Let us be clear here: We are not blaming the global media system for all the flaws in journalism. Establishing a media system that fosters a freewheeling, independent, wide-ranging, and vibrant journalism and political culture is no easy matter, though it is something that all democratic societies should aspire to develop. National press systems prior to - and in conjunction with - the global commercial system were and are sometimes adequate at this job, but many were failures.  Frequently, the media have been owned by wealthy individuals or firms that have clearly censored journalism to support their usually reactionary politics, as is the case in Turkey today. Both public and commercial broadcasters in many nations have often been handmaidens of the dominant political parties and interests. In places like Mexico, Peru, and Brazil the dominant commercial broadcasters have tended to be in bed with the dominant pro-business political parties, and to use their media power aggressively and shamelesslyto maintain the favored parties in power. Editors and reporters from dissident media who courageously bucked the system and reported on those in power have often found themselves arrested or on the receiving end of a beating or a gunshot. These practices continue today across the world.\\" ... Not very NICE!<br />... But there is hope! Read on, from pages 123 and 124: \\"Yet as important as this work is, there are inherent limits to what can be done with independent media, even with access to the Internet. Too often, the alternative media remain on the margins, seemingly confirming that commercial media conglomerates have become so massive because they \\"give the people what they want.\\" The problem with this disconnect is that it suggests that corporate media have mastered the marketplace on the basis of their wit and wisdom. In fact, as we noted earlier, our media system is not the legitimate result of free market competition. It is the result of relentless lobbying from big-business interests that have won explicit government policies and subsidies permitting them to scrap public-interest obligations and increase commercialization and conglomeration. It is untenable to accept such massive subsidies for the wealthy, and to content ourselves with the \\"freedom\\" to forge alternatives that only occupy the margins. How , then, can we force a change in the media systems that dominate the discourse and misinform the debate? By organizing the media democracy movement to make a great leap forward.\\"<br />... As Jesus said, resisting evil is not the way. Focusing on fighting fire with fire merely draws you into entangled engagement with illusory duality and conflict. We must IGNORE THEM TO DEATH! We must create a critical mass as a viable alternative that totally ECLIPSES the beast that has dominated our path to the pursuit of happiness, a fulfilling life, and true liberty. Only this way, can we find our way out of this mess - by all joining together, in spite of the powers that be, in order to build a new media that does not merely entertain or misinform but one which truly educates and enlightens our whole society and culture. ... YOWZA! - The Aeolian Kid	2003-04-29
US	49921140	R1W5PSFAY2EUSI	0805209700	745465161	The Good Life: Helen and Scott Nearing's Sixty Years of Self-Sufficient Living	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A No-Nonsense Guide to a REAL Alternative Lifestyle!	... I believe I was first made aware of this excellent book in the pages of THE WHOLE EARTH CATALOG over twenty five years ago. I did not read it until now, in 2003. ... I wish I had read it back then, for it may have influenced my life to take a different direction than it had. Nevertheless, I have no regrets, and I am happy that I finally made the effort to read this wonderful volume of wisdom from Helen and Scott Nearing. I know a couple who have met with Helen and Scott a number of times in their lives, and when I recently told them the other day that I was reading their book, The Good Life, they were overjoyed! This is the kind of book that leaves a lasting impression on anyone who reads it.<br />... Here are just a few of the pieces of wisdom you will find in this book... from pages 33 and 34: \\"3. All  of our operations will be kept on a cash and carry basis. No bank loans. No slavery to interest on mortgages, notes and I.O.U's. Under any economy, people who rent out money live on easy street. Whether as individuals or banking establishments, they lend money, take security and live on a rich harvest of interest and the proceeds of forced sales. The money lenders are able to enjoy comfort and luxury, without doing any productive labor. It is the borrowing producers who pay the interest or lose their property. Farmers and home owners by the thousands lost everything they had during the Great Depression because they could not meet interest payments. We decided to buy for cash or not at all.\\" ... But, don't be fooled into thinking by reading the sage advice that runs through this book like pure streams of mountain water that this is a book of philosophy! FAR FROM! This book is chock full of PRACTICAL ADVICE and pages and pages of HOW-TO'S that will increase your confidence to actually try implementing some of these keen techniques yourself!<br />... An example of the same can be found here, on page 282: \\"The Chinese drain their ponds and ditches, making special provision for the survival of their fish. They clear ditches and ponds of all accumulated refuse. When the ponds are emptied of silt, the gates are put back in the dams and the ponds are refilled. The accumulated silt and usable trash from the bottom are spread on the land or on compost piles. The product, as with us, will be a pile of first-class rotted sod which can be used in greenhouse, in mulching fruit bushes and trees, in compost making or transplanting. What we are doing on a few square yards of a North American farm, the Chinese are doing on a nationwide scale. They are planning their agriculture, dovetailing it with the changing seasons and the weather and building their farming base.\\"<br />... I could go on and on further, quoting page after page of practical gardening tips, wall-building instructions, compost-pile producing advice, maple sugar-making lore, and more philosophical, sociological, and political wisdom as well. Unlike this book, it would be fruitless! You simply must read this book for yourself if you want to get any  clear idea at all of what it would be like to be truly independent and living in the country - as well as what it would take to do so. The Nearings have proven to us all that it CAN be done. \\"The proof is in the pudding,\\" as they say - and the pudding is The Good Life they have lived. It's all here in this book. GO FOR IT! ... YOWZA! - The Aeolian Kid	2003-04-14
US	49921140	R1IALKB7A9PAX5	0471228958	815870164	Fatherless Women: How We Change After We Lose Our Dads	Books	5	8	11	N	N	Engaging, Personal, Reflective, Sensitive... Wonderful!	... Clea Simon, truly, is a very gifted writer. I found this book to be engaging, personal, reflective, sensitive, and wonderful. I could almost put myself in her shoes as I read about her thoughts and feelings, her stories about the lives of other women in similar circumstances, and her commentaries on our sociological condition as a generation of people who are struggling to make our own, new ways out of the old paradigm of the patriarchal past, a paradigm which has certainly paid its toll on all of us.<br />... Nevertheless, this is not a book about politics; far from! It is a book about one woman's journey through life, specifically relating to the issues surrounding the loss of her beloved father, and how she reconciled all of her feelings concerning this loss. Along the way, she weaves a tapestry of the tales of other women who also dealt with issues surrounding their fathers, and how the loss of their fathers may have affected them in positive and / or negative ways. The inclusion of all of these other stories makes this a far richer and more interesting book than if it were only about the life of the author. In fact, I can see this book being used as a textbook in college sociology courses on family values. It is that good!<br />... Here is an example of one insight she shares with us, from pages 64 and 65: \\"Indeed, the best indication of how we will grieve and recover from our loss may not lie in how our fathers die, but in how we dealt with them living. And for those of us who were unable to make peace with our fathers during their lifetimes, our way to peace and to healing may lie in accepting this lack of resolution, accepting our own and our fathers' flaws. Even if our fathers cannot at this final crisis abandon their illusions about their role, and our relationship, we must. For only by letting go of the fantasy of the perfect daddy, and of the perfect deathbed reconciliation, can we achieve anything resembling closure.\\" ... How intuitively profound!<br />... You know, I picked up this book in order to help me better understand people who are close to me who have lost their fathers at an early age, in order to be more sympathetic toward them and more considerate of their feelings and experiences. I was well rewarded, for, not only did I gain a greater understanding of the feelings of the loss of one's father from the perspective of a daughter, I also learned that many of these emotions are shared by ALL of us. Ultimately, we ALL have to one day face the inevitable loss of BOTH our parents - our fathers AND our mothers. Reading this book, somehow, makes that inevitable, one-day reality just a bit easier to accept and understand. It's a great comfort to the soul. ... BRAVO, Clea Simon! ... YOWZA! - The Aeolian Kid	2003-03-24
US	49921140	RR3NHZPMA8IF	0684868784	668828646	How Can I Get Through to You? Closing the Intimacy Gap Between Men and Women	Books	5	11	14	N	N	A Psychotherapeutic Work of Mastery!	... Terrence Real has written a psychotherapeutic work of mastery with HOW CAN I GET THROUGH TO YOU. The book is steeped in psychological wisdom and hard-earned knowledge gained through years of real-life experience working with couples as a counseling psychotherapist, helping people who need help with their relationships. ... This is no simple self-help book, self-actualization preppie, or book of sad-sob stories for the sentimental-hearted. ... NO! ... This book REEKS of REALISTIC examples of REAL-LIFE STORIES of people who have suffered great pain - in and out of relationships - and who have been helped by Terry Real's no-nonsense approach to relationship recovery and repair. ... His last name is not Real for nothing!<br />... Terry gives us some very helpful, psychological working-tools to use in our relationships in order to help us focus on REPAIR . The book is ripe with them on almost every page. Here is a perfect example from page 242: &quot;If someone voices discomfort about something, particularly if it's about you, her primary interest rarely lies in learning about your side of things. This is a point that is just as relevant to businesspeople as to marital partners. When someone is addressing difficult issues, more often than not her primary interest will be her concerns, not yours. When we listen relationally, we place ourselves at the service of the speaker. While it's seldom voiced, the truth is that the person you're listening to really doesn't care all that much at the moment about you one way or the other. She wants to know if you care about her. Do you get to come back with an explanation, how things &quot;really were&quot;? Well, perhaps sometime later. After you've addressed her concerns, you can provide your ideas about what happened. But ask yourself if that is really necessary, and even if it is, begin with solicitation - scan for a response that furthers repair.&quot;<br />... I could go on quoting from EVERY PAGE of this great book, but itwould be unecessary. Suffice it to say, this is one of the greatest books I have read in my life - and I have read far over a 1000. It is not just informative; it is intrinsically HELPFUL and INSTRUCTIVE in very positive ways. It teaches you ways to act and react - and even more importantly, how NOT to react - when you find yourself in the middle of a serious conversation with the one you love. I learned so much from this book, I now want to buy Terry's first book and read that one, too! ... Also, the stories he includes in each chapter - as he weaves his wisdom between passages pertaining to people he has helped - are not just interesting. They draw you in and captivate you! You will be moved to tears - and laughter - while reading this book. ... YOWZA! - The Aeolian KId	2003-03-23
US	49921140	RXA19CT5GJJKY	1583670815	186070435	Clash of Barbarisms: September 11 and the Making of the New World Disorder	Books	5	16	19	N	N	Are these Individuals HUMAN BEINGS, or What?!	... I swear to almighty God, if I ever find myself standing face-to-face with ANY of the members of the current administration \\"serving\\" our nation in Washington, D.C., I will feel absolutely compelled to ask them the following question: \\"Are you a HUMAN BEING?!\\" ... I mean, are these people HUMAN BEINGS, or what?! ... Does ANYBODY out there feel like I do, and EVER question the basic HUMANITY of these characters? I find it UNBELIEVABLE - what these individuals are doing in the name of \\"serving\\" their country. If this is SERVING your country, I can HELP MYSELF. Thank you very much! <br />... Gilbert Achcar has written a masterpiece which serves as a mirror to our nation, staring us in the face. Interesting, how foreigners see us more realistically than we see ourselves. In reading this book, I have come to realize - without a doubt - that what this administration is doing in the name fighting a war on terrorism is exhibiting nothing more than the old saying of: \\"might is right in the world of greed and lust.\\" ... To all those reading this who disagree, I say: READ THE FOLLOWING THREE PASSAGES FROM THIS BOOK, AND CONVINCE ME OTHERWISE! ...<br />... From page 37: \\"The United States is thus directly responsible for the resurgence of anti-Western Islamic fundamentalism. Over the past thirty years this resurgence has flourished in two successive waves. The Iranian revolution marked the climax of the first wave, in the 1970s; September 11 and the shock wave it sent out were the peak of the second wave, dating back to the 1990s. The United States is in fact doubly responsible for them. Not only did it contribute directly to propagating Islamic fundamentalism, but by helping to defeat and crush the Left and progressive nationalism throughout the Islamic world, it freed up the space for political Islam as the only ideological and organizational expression of popular resentment. Popular resentment, like nature, abhors a vacuum. The resurgence of Islamic fundamentalism is notthe culturally inevitable form of radicalization in Muslim countries; until recently most people in Muslim countries spurned the ideology. It won only by default, after its competition was eliminated by their common adversary.\\" <br />... From page 58: \\"This method of action serves entirely rational ends, contrary to what many would like to believe. Bin Laden hoped to create a situation in which the U.S. population, weary of bearing the brunt of its government's involvement in a part of the world that it has no more interest in than it did in Vietnam thirty years ago, would put pressure on its government to disengage and get out. This is why he directed his warnings, as in his October 7 message, not only to the U.S. government and its Western allies but also to their peoples. He did so even more clearly in his 1998 statements, which called people to attention: \\"The Western regimes and the government of the United States of America bear the blame for what might happen. If their people do not wish to be harmed inside their very own countries, they should seek to elect governments that are truly representative of them and that can protect their interests.\\" 8 \\"<br />... From pages 72 & 73: \\"Given the scale of the catastrophe that the Bush administration did nothing to prevent, its culpable negligence would have been more than enough to provoke the immediate resignation of any honest, responsible leader. But the very way the 43rd president made his way to the White House, not to speak of the Enron scandal and other events since the elections, showed that Bush is neither honest nor responsible. It is enough to make one marvel at the fact that Bill Clinton's lies in the Lewinsky affair almost drove him to resign or led to his impeachment. The surge in George W. Bush's popularity after September 11 shows that the events' true lessons are still far from having been learned. Indeed, it shows that people in the U.S. have drawn conclusions that are the exact opposite of the right ones. ... So far we have mentioned three factors to explain the origins of the political-religious terrorism targeting the United States: the presence of U.S. troops in the Saudi Kingdom, the Iraq embargo, and the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. We will not dwell further on the way in which the Bush administration deals with these Middle East issues. It is clear enough that it has done nothing until now but throw more oil on the fire, forgetting once more that the United States itself falls within the perimeter of this conflagration.\\"<br />... Wise words, indeed, that need to be HEEDED before we see even MORE \\"Blowback\\" ( as the CIA calls it ) of bad karma generating suffering and destruction onto American civilians right here in our own country! We are NOT immune! We are NOT safe, as Senator Robert Byrd of West Virginia so rightly states. ... As the new book, BUSH'S BRAIN, so eloquently attests to, this whole Iraq War comes down to two things: Oil & Israel. ... We need to GO SOLAR as soon as possible! ... YOWZA! - The Aeolian Kid	2003-03-08
US	49921140	R3TZN53MH9Q5CW	0743246470	505916468	It's Still the Economy, Stupid: George W. Bush, The GOP's CEO	Books	5	31	43	N	N	If you don't get angry after reading this, you don't care!	... Man, reading this book is more than an eye-opener; it's a MIND-BLOWER!!! ... I cannot BELIEVE the amount of damage the Bush administration has done to our nation in just TWO YEARS! ... Well, read this book, and YOU will believe it, too - because it is not an expose of one man's OPINIONS. It is a book full of DOCUMENTED and DATED FACTS - fully notated and referenced in the back of the book - all backed-up by primary sources and real people.<br />... If you do not get angry after reading this book, you either don't care about our current state of affairs, or you are benefitting from it - one or the other. No matter who you are, or what you think - whatever your personal agenda is - you cannot deny that the facts documented in this book are true!<BR>YOU CANNOT! This book sets the record straight - and I say that with deep sadness. The KLEPTOCRATS are having a field day!<br />... Begala hits the nail on the head, especially, on pages 59 and 60: \\"I am astonished when otherwise thoughtful conservatives accuse those of us who simply point to the impact of Republican economic policies on low- and middle-income Americans of waging class warfare. What on earth would you call cutting important programs that teach our children, train working people, protect employees on the job, so that we can send billions of dollars in tax cuts to the most fortunate among us? Why is it that the commentators and pundits - well-paid all, to be sure (I know; I'm one of 'em) - call criticizing Bush's war on working people a form of class warfare? Don't let them back you down. Nobody wants to punish success. No one wants to divide Americans. However, when our president proposes policies that yank the ladder of opportunity out from under those who are working to make it in order to give wads of cash to people who've already got it made, we have a duty to call it what it is: class warfare on behalf of the favored few and against most Americans.\\" ... Right-on, Paul Begala!<br />... I think Begalawas being overly respectful and / or keeping his tongue in his cheek when he wrote that, \\"No one wants to divide Americans.\\" It seems to me that these are, in actuality, INTENDED consequences of this adminisration - but we'll save this train of thought for another time. ... Indeed, we DO have a duty! Don't let these robber-barons pull the wool over your eyes! Read this book, and learn the facts! This book will serve us all well as hefty, intellectual-ammunition and political-fodder for the next presidential election. I could go on and on quoting page after page of this book. Begala has done his homework - the hardest part: the WRITING of the book. Now, you do yours: READ IT! ... YOWZA! - The Aeolian Kid	2003-03-04
US	49921140	R2HTDJ42YWJBKT	1583224904	788245572	Terrorism: Theirs and Ours	Books	5	19	20	N	N	...Worth Every Penny!	... Man, this little book of 59 pages packs a powerful punch...! It is worth every penny. You can read it in a few hours, and you will be glad you did; for, it opens your eyes to seeing our country as much of the rest of the world sees us - with total clarity!<br />... Ahmad states on page 24: \\"What is my recommendation to America? First, avoid extremes of double standards. If you're going to practice double standards, you will be paid with double standards. Don' use it. Don't condone Israeli terror, Pakistani terror, Nicaraguan terror, El Salvadoran terror, on the one hand, and then complain about Afghan terror or Palesinian terror. It doesn' work. Try to be even-handed. A superpower cannot promote terror in one place and reasonably expect to discourage terrorism in another place. It doesn't work in this shrunken world.\\" Also, on page 20, he states: \\"Sometimes it's the fact that you have experienced violence at other people's hands. Victims of violent abuse often become violent people. The only time when Jews produced terrorists in organized fashion was during and after the Holocaust. It is rather remarkable that Jewish terrorists hit largely innocent people or U.N. peacemakers like Count Bernadotte of Sweden, whose country had a better record on the Holocaust. The men of Irgun, the Stern Gang, and the Hagannah terrorist groups came in the wake of the Holocaust. The experience of victimhood itself produces a violent reaction.\\"<br />... This book comes in two sections: the first section is an edited transcript of a public talk the auther gave at the University of Colorado, in Boulder, on October 12, 1998; the second section is composed of excerpts edited from: Eqbal Ahmad: Confronting Empire, Interviews with David Barsamian ( Souh End Press, 2000 ). ... This is a great litle book with a great wrap-around cover photo of former U.S. President, Ronald Reagan ( beardless! ), sitting in a room in the White House on June 16, 1986 while meeting with a group of heavily bearded mujahideen leaders from Afghanistan. Somehow, Reagan looks out of place in his own house! ... Read this book! You won't regret it. ... YOWZA! - The Aeolian Kid	2003-02-26
US	49921140	R3RWVXQHML8HH0	1878901621	934168665	Phoenix Rising: No-Eyes' Vision of the Changes to Come	Books	5	17	20	N	N	Be Prepared To Be Shocked... and Inspired!	... WOW! ... If, after having read this book, you do NOT seriously reconsider WHERE you are living in relation to the surrounding circumstances of your immediate environment, if you do NOT reconsider the WAY you have been relating to that environment as well as to your fellow human beings and all of the other creatures who share that environment with you, and if you do NOT reconsider your goals and means to those goals as far as whether they are in HARMONY with both Nature as well as Spiritual Laws, then - if what this book prophesizes is true - you may be in BIG TROUBLE in the coming years ahead. ... This is no joke!<br />... This book picks up where SPIRIT SONG left off. It fills in more detail into the teleological understanding of End-Times prophecies from the Native American perspective of No-Eyes - the wise, old, blind teacher of Mary Summer Rain. If you liked SPIRIT SONG, you are going to LOVE this second book in the series, Phoenix Rising. It leaves no stone uncovered.<br />... Mary Summer Rain writes, on page 48: \\"As we listened to the nonstop chatter of the scampering squirrels, each of us was lost in our private musings. I wondered at the great number of unaware people I saw around me every day. Didn't they realize that there were great things in the offing? I saw no physical evidence of preparation, physical or spiritual. Oh, I knew of separate groups of mountain folks who believed and were taking every opportunity to physically prepare for the bleak future, but, on the whole, everyone appeared to be obsessed with worry over the most trivial matters. I found this incredibly difficult to accept. The general unawareness of the masses made them look like mindless robots living out their individual lives with blinders on. I thought about the times when I'd overheard people idly comment on the strange occurrences of this or that, yet nobody was ever aware enough to connect the strange occurrences together. Nobody bothered to fit the puzzle pieces of the signstogether. Nobody was aware enough to see the entire picture for what it represented.\\"<br />... Funny, how blind prophets - Native American or otherwise - seem to have more insightful vision than people with normal sight do! We can thank No-Eyes for sharing her visions and wisdom with Mary Summer Rain, and we can thank Mary Summer Rain for sharing them all with us. She has presented us with all of the connected pieces of the entire picture of the prophetic puzzle! Whether your eschatological beliefs are pre-Millennial or post-Millennial, embrace the faith in a Rapture, or even simply cling to the stand that you will one day die, be judged, and hopefully go to a place called Heaven, it doesn't matter - ALL of these prophecies may take place and come true BEFORE any of those final, Biblical, tribulation time events of the Apocalypse ever take place. If this is, indeed, the truth, then Mary Summer Rain has done us all a great service - and we are very grateful to her, and thank her with all our hearts. ... YOWZA! - The Aeolian Kid	2003-02-25
US	49921140	RUPRN7G54DMEM	1878901613	211609749	Spirit Song: The Introduction of No-Eyes	Books	5	13	13	N	N	A Truly Beatific and Beautiful Book!	... My girlfriend recommended I read this book, and I'm glad I listened to her. If you have ever read, and enjoyed, any of the many books of Carlos Castaneda ( now passed away - ? ) about his continuing adventures with ( and without ) the Native American Indian shaman-teacher, Don Juan, then you most certainly will also enjoy reading this series of  &quot;NO-EYES BOOKS&quot; ( as some call them ) by the gifted author, Mary Summer Rain. ... What a beautiful writer! What a wonderful story! What an amazing set of visions!<br />... Yeah, she touches upon many of the standard &quot;New Age&quot; bases  as she weaves her tale: aliens, alternative medicine, angelic beings, astral projection, astrology, back-to-nature living, dream symbololy, earth changes, ecology, herbology, meditation, mind-reading, Native American spirituality, parapsychology, prophecy, psychic powers, psycho-kinesis, reincarnation, shamanism, spirit-guides, UFO's, vision-quests, et al ... but she does it in a way that has a natural flow and with a a lightness of spirit that is not overbearing or overly serious. She draws you in, instead of hitting you over the head with her insights.<br />... Is No-Eyes a real person? ... Is Don Juan, or Jesus, or even Socrates? ... Ultimately, who cares? So what?! Or, &quot;What so!,&quot; as No-Eyes would say. All that really matters are the archetypal truths conveyed by the narrative. These truths, and &quot;lessons&quot; of No-Eyes, are deep, profound, and life-affirming - and they are there to be appreciated by one and all, thanks to the wise writings of Mary Summer Rain.<br />... As she quotes No-Eyes on page 61: &quot;Now, in old days Peoples love all stuff. They love trees, mountains, grass, animals, all stuff. Sacred powers were nature forces: wind, water, fire, lightning. Peoples know Father Sky and Earth Mother parents of all life. Every creature have spirit. All nature be People's church. It be bad stuff to force Great Spirit to crouch down into one building. Great Spirit everywhere! It forever duty of Peoples to every day give prayers to Great Mystery, to be thankful. These prayers more important to Peoples than food even. All Peoples see Great Spirit  in black rain clouds, hear Him in thundering waterfalls. Peoples  make all acts in life a sacred act. Peoples know sacred silence is voice of Great Spirit. This silence be ultimate balance of mind, body, and spirit. Peoples give away all one's stuff! They know stuff not where Great Spirit be. Stuff not important! Summer, that true love. That pure love!&quot; <br />... How anyone cannot be charmed and moved by this wonderful little treasure of a book is beyond me! If you enjoyed reading Black Elk Speaks, you will enjoy this book. Also, we have all seen those maps of what the future of the planet is supposed to look like by, supposedly, the year 2012. Right? You've seen those maps! Well, remember, that  this book was first published in 1985 - way before COMING EARTH CHANGES in 1996 by William Hutton, NOTES FROM THE COSMOS in 1997 by Gordon-Michael Scallion, and many of the other &quot;future prophecy&quot; books out there on the market were published. Remember that the next time you see one of those maps on someone's living room wall! ... One could also say that certain Native American people might take offense to their traditional spirituality being combined with and / or co-opted by &quot;New Age-ism.&quot; As we all know, Native Americans very much resent their genuine religious beliefs being exploited by New Agers seeking glory and profit from their ancient wisdom. Nevertheless, Mary Summer Rain writes of these ancient and perenial truths with such respect and loving admiration that one would be hard-pressed to find fault with her. She really is sowing seeds of higher consciousness with these books, and she should be commended for that. ... YOWZA! - The Aeolian Kid	2003-02-18
US	49921140	R2PJQFMWA7N32	0743214781	636848454	Is Our Children Learning?: The Case Against George W. Bush	Books	5	47	58	N	N	Perfect Example of: "I TOLD YOU SO!"	... If more people had read this book and known all this stuff BEFORE the presidential election in November of 2000, Resident-Select Shrub would not be living in the White House today. I'm sure it is no warm consolation to Paul Begala to be able to say, \\"I told you so.\\" Nevertheless, all is not in vain. What is in this book will come in real handy for the UPCOMING presidential election of 2004.<br />... About then presidential candidate, George W. Bush, Paul Begala writes, on page 40: \\"George W. Bush's economic plan is a return to the trickle-down days of the 1980s. He wants to cut taxes for the rich, gut the social safety net, turn more and more power over to giant corporations, and limit the rights of working people. ... You're reading this, and you're thinking: Didn't we try this before? And didn't all that trickle down result in a few rich folks and corporations getting the gold mine while the rest of us got the shaft? Didn't those Reagan-Bush economic policies run up the debt, cripple our competitiveness, and drive us into a recession?\\"<br />... About then vice-presidential candidate, Dick Cheney, he writes, on page 133: \\"And in case you ladies thought Dick was on your side, he also voted against the Equal Rights Amendment. Apparently full equality for women was an idea whose time had no yet come for Mr. Cheney. In his defense, Cheney says he opposed the ERA because he feared it would require that women be drafted. Hey, Dick: we haven't even drafted any men for twenty-five years. But at least he's consistent: Cheney was so opposed to the draft during the Vietnam War that he got several deferments. He never spent a day in uniform himself, but he was eager to ship my cousin Dennis (a Marine sniper) off to Kuwait to do Cheney's fighting for him.\\"<br />... Ah, you've got to hand it to Paul Begala, he knows how to maintain his sense of humor in the heat of battle. Indeed, for battle it is - political battle - over the future direction of our country. Read this book( as well as his newer IT'S STILL THE ECONOMY, STUPID ), and you will be very well informed about \\"the enemy\\" before going into battle. I will never forget what my friend, Danny ( a US Marine who fought at Kae San in Vietnam ), once said to me about his political enemies in union politics. He said: \\"I love my enemies. I really do. It's EASY to love your enemies and be a Christian. WHY? ... Because they're SO STUPID, they make you look good!\\" ... Danny was right - and Paul Begala is right. Read this book, love your enemies, and think victoriously about the future presidential election! ... YOWZA! - The Aeolian Kid	2003-02-14
US	49921140	R14891HD5EP2G2	0743246470	505916468	It's Still the Economy, Stupid: George W. Bush, The GOP's CEO	Books	5	10	12	N	N	If you don't get angry after reading this, you don't care!	... Man, reading this book is more than an eye-opener; it's a MIND-BLOWER!!! ... I cannot BELIEVE the amount of damage the Bush administration has done to our nation in just TWO YEARS! ... Well, read this book, and YOU will believe it, too - because it is not an expose of one man's OPINIONS. It is a book full of DOCUMENTED and DATED FACTS - fully notated and referenced in the back of the book - all backed-up by primary sources and real people.<br />... If you do not get angry after reading this book, you either don't care about our current state of affairs, or you are benefitting from it - one or the other. No matter who you are, or what you think - whatever your personal agenda is - you cannot deny that the facts documented in this book are true!<BR>YOU CANNOT! This book sets the record straight - and I say that with deep sadness. The KLEPTOCRATS are having a field day!<br />... Begala hits the nail on the head, especially, on pages 59 and 60: \\"I am astonished when otherwise thoughtful conservatives accuse those of us who simply point to the impact of Republican economic policies on low- and middle-income Americans of waging class warfare. What on earth would you call cutting important programs that teach our children, train working people, protect employees on the job, so that we can send billions of dollars in tax cuts to the most fortunate among us? Why is it that the commentators and pundits - well-paid all, to be sure (I know; I'm one of 'em) - call criticizing Bush's war on working people a form of class warfare? Don't let them back you down. Nobody wants to punish success. No one wants to divide Americans. However, when our president proposes policies that yank the ladder of opportunity out from under those who are working to make it in order to give wads of cash to people who've already got it made, we have a duty to call it what it is: class warfare on behalf of the favored few and against most Americans.\\" ... Right-on, Paul Begala!<br />... I think Begalawas being overly respectful and / or keeping his tongue in his cheek when he wrote that, \\"No one wants to divide Americans.\\" It seems to me that these are, in actuality, INTENDED consequences of this adminisration - but we'll save this train of thought for another time. ... Indeed, we DO have a duty! Don't let these robber-barons pull the wool over your eyes! Read this book, and learn the facts! This book will serve us all well as hefty, intellectual-ammunition and political-fodder for the next presidential election. I could go on and on quoting page after page of this book. Begala has done his homework - the hardest part: the WRITING of the book. Now, you do yours: READ IT! ... YOWZA! - The Aeolian Kid	2003-02-09
US	49921140	R24ZN2DJA2ALA4	0743246470	505916468	It's Still the Economy, Stupid: George W. Bush, The GOP's CEO	Books	5	1	2	N	N	If you don't get angry after reading this, you don't care!	... Man, reading this book is more than an eye-opener; it's a MIND-BLOWER!!! ... I cannot BELIEVE the amount of damage the Bush administration has done to our nation in just TWO YEARS! ... Well, read this book, and YOU will believe it, too - because it is not an expose of one man's OPINIONS. It is a book full of DOCUMENTED and DATED FACTS - fully notated and referenced in the back of the book - all backed-up by primary sources and real people.<br />... If you do not get angry after reading this book, you either don't care about our current state of affairs, or you are benefitting from it - one or the other. No matter who you are, or what you think - whatever your personal agenda is - you cannot deny that the facts documented in this book are true!<BR>YOU CANNOT! This book sets the record straight - and I say that with deep sadness. The KLEPTOCRATS are having a field day!<br />... Begala hits the nail on the head, especially, on pages 59 and 60: \\"I am astonished when otherwise thoughtful conservatives accuse those of us who simply point to the impact of Republican economic policies on low- and middle-income Americans of waging class warfare. What on earth would you call cutting important programs that teach our children, train working people, protect employees on the job, so that we can send billions of dollars in tax cuts to the most fortunate among us? Why is it that the commentators and pundits - well-paid all, to be sure (I know; I'm one of 'em) - call criticizing Bush's war on working people a form of class warfare? Don't let them back you down. Nobody wants to punish success. No one wants to divide Americans. However, when our president proposes policies that yank the ladder of opportunity out from under those who are working to make it in order to give wads of cash to people who've already got it made, we have a duty to call it what it is: class warfare on behalf of the favored few and against most Americans.\\" ... Right-on, Paul Begala!<br />... I think Begalawas being overly respectful and / or keeping his tongue in his cheek when he wrote that, \\"No one wants to divide Americans.\\" It seems to me that these are, in actuality, INTENDED consequences of this administration - but we'll save this train of thought for another time. ... Indeed, we DO have a duty! Don't let these robber-barrons pull the wool over your eyes! Read this book, and learn the facts! This book will serve us all well as hefty, intellectual-ammunition and political-fodder for the next presidential election. I could go on and on quoting page after page of this book. Begala has done his homework - the hardest part: the WRITING of the book. Now, you do yours: READ IT! ... YOWZA! - The Aeolian Kid	2003-02-09
US	49921140	R1PJCECIB76F5F	1560255021	528901183	Dreaming War: Blood for Oil and the Cheney-Bush Junta (Nation Books)	Books	5	24	34	N	N	The Master has done it again!	... All I can say is: Thank goodness for Gore Vidal! He is a literary and historical master, and he has done it again. The man pulls no political punches whatsoever and smacks the scoundrels with social shame for the damage they have done - and continue to do - to our once great constitutional republic. In the name of patriotism, and \\"homeland security,\\" our national politicians have hijacked our liberty, our civil rights, and our dignity as citizens of a sovereign nation in order to have us all REALLY serving the business interests of the National Securiy State and the Big Business Multi-National Corporations who are REALLY running the show. ... So, what else is new? ... C. Wright Mills ( THE POWER ELITE ) and G. William Domhoff ( WHO RULES AMERICA NOW? ) have also been writing about this same subject for years. Anyone who KNOWS that the political Ruling Class of this country - which makes up the governing individuals of the modern American Empire ( The National Security State ) - exists solely in order to do the governmental bidding of the corporate Upper Class of very weatlhy plutocrats and very greedy kleptocrats KNOWS that even THEY know that we KNOW what the real situation is here ( ie: We do NOT live in a Democracy - or even a Republic any more!). Their attittude is: \\"SO WHAT?! What are you going to do about it?!\\"<br />... Indeed! This is the crux of the problem: what to DO about our ever-dwindling freedoms as once TRULY brave & free American citizens! In the meantime, it is good to see that people like the great writer, Gore Vidal, are still going out of their way to stick their necks out in order to educate anyone with ears to hear about what is REALLY going on in the world - right under our very noses!<br />... As he writes on pages 31 and 32: \\"But Pearl Harbor has been much studied over the years. 9/11, it is plain, is never going to be investigated if our secretive junta has anything to say about it. At the end of January '02, CNN reported: President Bush personally asked Senate Majority Leader Tom Daschle Tuesday to limit the Congressional investigation into the events of September 11, Congressional and White House sources told CNN. ... The request was made at a private meeting with Congressional leaders. ... Sources said Bush initiated the conversation. ... He asked that only the House and Senate intelligence committees look into the potential breakdowns among federal agencies that could have allowed the terrorist attacks to occur, rather than a broader inquiry that some lawmakers have proposed. ... Tuesday's discussion followed a rare call from Vice President Dick Cheney last Friday to make the same request ... \\" The excuse given, according to Daschle, was that an investigation \\"would take resources and personnel away\\" from the war on terrorism in the event of a wider inquiry that is not limited to the assumption that the administration's inaction was solely a consequence of \\"breakdowns among federal agencies.\\" So for reasons that we must never know, those \\"breakdowns\\" are to be the goat. That they were more likely to be not break but \\"stand-downs\\" is not for us to pry. Certainly, the hour-twenty-minute failure to put fighter planes in the air could not have been due to a breakdown throughout the entire Air Force along the East Coast. Mandatory standard operating procedure had been told to cease and desist.\\" ... Heavy stuff, indeed! - The Aeolian Kid	2003-02-07
US	49921140	R35GS9938VYAUL	0684862352	819251496	Now, Let Me Tell You What I Really Think	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Ah - the REAL Chris Matthews is finally revealed!	... If, like me, you genuinely LIKE Chris Matthews, you will LIKE this book. The man reveals that he has a HEART as big as his MOUTH!  ( No small potatoes in this case! ) He has a sincere affection and respect for his heroes - no mater what their political persuasion - and he never hesitates, or feels ashamed, to tell you so. Bottom line: Chris Matthews is a good guy. Period. He's just a decent kind of guy - tough, but fair. He's the kind of guy you always wished you had as your best friend when you were growing up as a kid who may have been surrounded by mindless jocks, wimpy nerds, or violent punks in a neighborhood short on both brains and heart. Chris Matthews is short on neither.<br />... If you watch his program - HARDBALL - on TV every night ( as I do most nights ), you may have wondered why he interrups his guests so often. You find out why in this book on page 23: \\"The truth is, I can come up with some explanations for this oft-cited \\"bad\\" habit of mine. There's the TV excuse: I refuse to let plodding guests kill my Hardball pace. I like it fast. So does the audience - and probably even, secretly, some of those who complain do too. Or there's the professional rationale: I'm not in the PR business. I'm a journalist. Therefore, I refuse to let politicians use my show to recite their staff-scripted talking points. I could also offer the \\"I-grew-up-in-a-big-family\\" dodge. With five brothers around the table, we had to eat fast to get second helpings - and talk fast in order to get anyone to listen. But are you ready for the real reason I interrupt so much? I can't help myself. It's like that Phil Ochs song from the sixties, when he declared, \\"I've got something to say and I'm gonna say it now.\\" That's me. A guest will say something, and suddenly I'll be reminded of something I'm dying to say. This book is a chance to finally get it out, to tell you what I really think.\\"<br />... He does just that in this very revealing book. ... Man, can this guy talk fast! Either he's drinking some really strong java before each show, or his youthful enthusiasm is still flowing strong from an endless supply of adenosine triphosphate! His synapses are literally BURNING on camera! It's inspiring just watching him THINK - because you KNOW his brain is working way faster than his motor-mouth can get the words out. He's also got a great sense of humor! ... Can I make one suggestion, Chris? DROP the incomplete sentenses - like the one here on page 157: \\"Except for one hulking white-haired guy who refused to quit.\\" Learn to incorporate the semi-colon, or at least the dash. Okay, buddy?<br />... Hey, if you're one of those people who believes the myth that the \\"media is liberal\\" in this country, then you may not like watching HARDBALL ( because Chris is definitely more progressive than reactionary ) or even Donahue ( also on MSNBC ) for that matter. But if you're one of those people who realizes that there is more to a person than meets the eye, then you will find when you read this book that Chris Matthews, indeed, \\"doesn't give a damn which party is in power,\\" as long as our country's best interests are being served. That is the mark of a true American patriot! ... YOWZA! - The Aeolian Kid	2003-02-05
US	49921140	R2I7A11OYIZCVP	0446530867	906459664	Rich Dad's Prophecy: Why the Biggest Stock Market Crash in History Is Still Coming...and How You Can Prepare Yourself and Profit from It!	Books	5	4	8	N	N	&quot;Action Talks and B.S. Walks!&quot;	... Robert Kiyosaki is a man of action. In this - his latest installment of a &quot;RICH DAD&quot; book - he, once again, plays Carlos Castaneda ( student ) alongside Don Juan ( master ). Who is the master? ... You guessed it: Rich Dad! ... This book is great if for no other reason that it wakes the reader up out of the conventional wisdom of the common, consensus-reality trance that diversified mutual funds and 401k's are the way to go. ... Kiyosaki says he knows a better way - and he sets out to prove it in this book.<br />... Kiyosaki encourages anyone who cares to take the time to really listen to do what he does: choose knowledge and freedom over ignorance and security. He points the way, and you have to honor him for that. He does not simply talk a good talk. He has proven that he can MANIFEST what he is talking about. His ACTIONS speak volumes, while the WORDS of many others walk off into the sunset of another wasted day of listening to foolish advice given by people who are still living &quot;inside the box.&quot;<br />... The bottom line: educate yourself about business ownership, residential real-estate, and commercial real-estate investments - and begin to transfer your savings into properties that will support you NOW as well as far into the future. Transform liabilities into assets. Invest in what WORKS to give you a better RETURN on your investment. Most of all: choose freedom over security - and help others to do the same once you have mastered the ways of freedom.<br />... Kiyosaki says some very interesting things. I am not so sure about Rich Dad's praise of our American capitalist system's nobility as stated here on page 114: &quot;Rich dad was very optimistic about America. He said, &quot;Although America is a military power, it does not use its military power to take. America uses its military to protect its lines of commerce as well as keep order in the world. America is also a business power and a business power has the ability to create ratherthan take.&quot; He would say, &quot;It's time to use our business power to create solutions to this very big problem of how a person survives once their working days are over. If we as a nation solve this problem, America can evolve into an even greater world power.&quot; ... Fine sentiments - but tell that to the MILLIONS of Native American Indians still living in poverty on RESERVATIONS in this country, land we TOOK from them! Tell that to the Chileans, the Guatemalans, the Panamanians, the Philippinos, and the Mexicans. I could go on.<br />... Nevertheless, Kiyosaki goes on to say this on page 136: &quot;Years ago, rich dad said to me, &quot;If you want to find true financial security, or even become financially rich, you must play your own game. Don't play someone else's game.&quot; After ERISA passed into law, rich dad felt that millions of people would be forced to play Wall Street's game. Rich dad said, &quot;The problem with playing Wall Street's game is that Wall Street is in control and you aren't. Find your own game, become good at it, and then take control of your life.&quot; &quot; ... And on page 149, he rebukes greed, irresponsibility, and the lack of accountability in business with these words: &quot;Too many of these very bright students become captains but lose touch with the workers, the real engine of business. When people lose touch with their workers, then disasters like Enron happen. Did those so-called well-educated leaders recommend that their employees buy shares of the company while they were selling? It may not be technically illegal, but to me, it is definitely unethical. The problem is, this practice of recommending a buy while in fact you are selling is a very common practice not only at Enron, but it is a common practice in business, especially the business of the stock market.&quot; ... Wise words from a wise man! ... - The Aeolian Kid	2003-02-04
US	49921140	R1SIQYWU2QSU8X	1560255021	528901183	Dreaming War: Blood for Oil and the Cheney-Bush Junta (Nation Books)	Books	5	4	8	N	N	The Master has done it again!	... All I can say is: Thank goodness for Gore Vidal! He is a literary and historical master, and he has done it again. The man pulls no political punches whatsoever and smacks the scoundrels with social shame for the damage they have done - and continue to do - to our once great constitutional republic. In the name of patriotism, and \\"homeland security,\\" our national politicians have hijacked our liberty, our civil rights, and our dignity as citizens of a sovereign nation in order to have us all REALLY serving the business interests of the National Securiy State and the Big Business Multi-National Corporations who are REALLY running the show. ... So, what else is new? ... C. Wright Mills ( THE POWER ELITE ) and G. William Domhoff ( WHO RULES AMERICA NOW? ) have also been writing about this same subject for years. Anyone who KNOWS that the political Ruling Class of this country - which makes up the governing individuals of the modern American Empire ( The National Security State ) - exists solely in order to do the governmental bidding of the corporate Upper Class of very wealthy plutocrats and very greedy kleptocrats KNOWS that even THEY know that we KNOW what the real situation is here ( ie: We do NOT live in a Democracy - or even a Republic any more!). Their attittude is: \\"SO WHAT?! What are you going to do about it?!\\"<br />... Indeed! This is the crux of the problem: what to DO about our ever-dwindling freedoms as once TRULY brave & free American citizens! In the meantime, it is good to see that people like the great writer, Gore Vidal, are still going out of their way to stick their necks out in order to educate anyone with ears to hear about what is REALLY going on in the world - right under our very noses!<br />... As he writes on pages 31 and 32: \\"But Pearl Harbor has been much studied over the years. 9/11, it is plain, is never going to be investigated if our secretive junta has anything to say about it. At the end of January '02, CNN reported: President Bush personally asked Senate Majority Leader Tom Daschle Tuesday to limit the Congressional investigation into the events of September 11, Congressional and White House sources told CNN. ... The request was made at a private meeting with Congressional leaders. ... Sources said Bush initiated the conversation. ... He asked that only the House and Senate intelligence committees look into the potential breakdowns among federal agencies that could have allowed the terrorist attacks to occur, rather than a broader inquiry that some lawmakers have proposed. ... Tuesday's discussion followed a rare call from Vice President Dick Cheney last Friday to make the same request ... \\" The excuse given, according to Daschle, was that an investigation \\"would take resources and personnel away\\" from the war on terrorism in the event of a wider inquiry that is not limited to the assumption that the administration's inaction was solely a consequence of \\"breakdowns among federal agencies.\\" So for reasons that we must never know, those \\"breakdowns\\" are to be the goat. That they were more likely to be not break but \\"stand-downs\\" is not for us to pry. Certainly, the hour-twenty-minute failure to put fighter planes in the air could not have been due to a breakdown throughout the entire Air Force along the East Coast. Mandatory standard operating procedure had been told to cease and desist.\\" ... Heavy stuff, indeed! - The Aeolian Kid	2003-02-01
US	49921140	R2U21ONXUR9N7L	1573221813	834334792	The Road to Wealth: A Comprehensive Guide to Your Money--Everything You Need to Know in Good and Bad Times	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Well-Organized and Presented Advice for Financial Novices	... Suze Orman is very smart. She knows how to teach what she knows to other people, and do it in a way that is easy to understand and enjoyable to read. She presents her case like a counter-puncher, in the sense that the whole book is laid-out like a Question & Answer session - with all of the questions in dark, bold type, and all of the answers in regular type. This format makes the reading of the book very easy to take and the information easy to comprehend. It flows like a conversation in a way.<br />... Now, whether or not you AGREE with her advice is another thing altogether. You may prefer to not follow her financial advice at all, swim in the deep end of the pool on Wall Street, or to even fly the coop ( as Kiyosaki recommends in his Rich Dad books! ) and swim out into the deep ocean like a \\"REAL INVESTOR\\" in the \\"REAL WORLD\\" with the sharks and the killer whales who REALLY know how to play the game of Capitalism to its financial fullness.<br />... Whatever you decide to do, you can still learn a LOT about finances from this hefty book. Its 11 chapters cover: Managing Debt, Financial Intimacy, Home Ownership, Insurance, Paying For College, Retirement Planning, Stocks, Mutual Funds, Bonds and Bond Funds, Annuities, and Wills and Trusts. At 561 big pages, there is a lot of information here to digest - but it is well worth reading every page of it. Take the time to do so, and you will be better off for having done so. I wish I had read this book when I was in my twenties, but, of course, this book was not around then. Neither was Suze's interesting and lively television show on Cable TV - which you can also learn a lot from if you wach it on a regualar basis.<br />... Here is a helpful tip from page 67: \\"I have said it before and I'll say it again: Place people first, money second. Whether you are falling in love, living with someone, getting married, getting divorced, or starting your life over again following the death of someone you love, the people in yourlife come first.\\" ... Sounds like good advice to me! - The Aeolian Kid	2003-01-26
US	49921140	R3NW4KVAJ72YEZ	0786888121	641110131	The Don't Sweat Guide to Taxes: Avoiding Stress over April 15th	Books	5	1	2	N	N	A Cool Little Book to Get You Ready for the Big Day!	... This is the kind of book you can read CHAPTERS at a time. At 208 pages, you can still read the whole thing in less than one day. ... Is it absolutely NECESSARY to read this book? NO. ... But it WILL give you a sense of closure when it comes to paying your taxes, as well as a little bit of interesting, historical background in order to help you understand taxes in a general sense. ... It will NOT help you to actually &quot;DO&quot; your taxes, but it WILL help you to do EVERYTHING in PREPARATION to getting your taxes done, either by yourself or by a professional. That, alone, can be very conducive to maintaining peace of mind during Tax Season in the Spring of every year.<br />... Here's an interesting quote from page 78: &quot;The Income tax was implemented in 1861 to help raise revenue for the Civil War, but even this didn't mark its permanent inclusion in the landscape. It was repealed in 1872, revived in 1894, and declared unconstitutional by the U.S. Supreme Court in 1895. It was only in 1913, with the adoption of the Sixteenth Amendment to the Constitution, that the federal income tax was institutionalized.&quot; ... And, from page 202: &quot;During the political season, it's common to hear elected officials and their challengers try to outdo each other in the pledges for tax relief. There's a tendency to respond to these initiatives with your own pocketbook - that is, to support the tax measures that appear to bring the greatest benefits to you. As appealing as this may sound, it may be a shortsighted approach that can hurt you - and all of us - in the long run.&quot;<br />... I, personally, believe that the tax system and the tax code is unfair. I think it would be far better if all non-commercial property taxes and all income taxes were abolished on both the state and federal levels. Instead, Congress could initiate a FLAT NATIONAL LUXURY SALES TAX of 10 or 20 PERCENT on all luxury items - and stop witholding money from worker's pay checks immediatly, other than for Social Security and Medicare ( or an instituted National Health Insurance Plan of some kind ). ... Whatever you think, one thing is certain: we are ALL taxed TOO MUCH in order to support a military that serves the interests of BIG BUSINESS in order to keep us ALL hostage to the Military Industrial Complex of the modern National Security State that our once great constitutional republic has been morphed into by the greed-heads and war-mongers of the multi-national corporations. This military serves THEIR business interests, not OUR interests as a people. ... - The Aeolian Kid	2003-01-26
US	49921140	R2UY0E77465JJF	0764553313	944794070	Home Buying For Dummies	Books	5	11	21	N	N	&quot;...Our House Is A Very Very Very Fine House...&quot;	... Personally, my idea of the ideal situation is to not even BUY a house, but to BUILD one on one's own ( with help from friends and professionals, of course, if necessary ) on LAND that one would purchase in a beautiful location out in the country, on a south slope overlooking a lake in a scenic valley down below. This would be a dream-come-true. ...<br />... But, in the meantime, for many of us, it is sometimes necessary to actually BUY a house to live in if one no longer feels comfortable renting from landlords, for whatever reason. In order to do this - buy a house - one needs money. If you have PLENTY of money, and paying CASH in-full for a house is not a problem, then you may think that you may not need to read this book. ... DON'T! ... Even if you have ALL the money in the world, you should STILL read this book BEFORE buying a house because all of the valuable, well-researched, and well-organized information presented in its excellent pages by its experienced authors will save you from suffering from countless sleepless nights, headaches, and aggravations! ...<br />... Now, if you are NOT very wealthy and if, like most of us, you may actually have to BORROW money &quot;from the bank&quot; in order to purchase a home to live in, then NOT reading this very helpful book should be out of the question - especially if you have NEVER bought a house before. Not reading this book WAY before you even start to SERIOUSLY entertain the notion of buying a house could cost you THOUSANDS of dollars in the long run! ... <br />... Here's just ONE example of a healthy tip from page 235 of this great book: &quot;Buyers who lowball a well-priced property listed by sellers who can wait for a better offer destroy any chance of developing the mutual trust and sense of fair play upon which cooperative negotiation is based. Bargaininig is fine, but you must find a motivated seller and not aim too low. Starting at 25 percent below what the home is worth generally won't work unless theseller is desperate.&quot; ...  <br />... If you're going to buy a house, you MUST read this book! You will NEVER regret it. ... YOWZA! - The Aeolian Kid	2002-11-18
US	49921140	R2R1X1VULU3MVY	0815411901	202593337	Captain Beefheart: The Biography	Books	5	4	10	N	N	"The Love of having THE GOOD for Oneself always."	... Plato writes that Socrates had a great teacher: the priestess, Diotima. Diotima taught Socrates that the answer to the meaning of life was simply this: \\"It is the love of having THE GOOD for oneself always!\\" ... Now, the question is: What does one mean by \\"THE GOOD?\\" ...<br />... Plato had put a lot of emphasis on the value of MUSIC in his writings; how training in MUSIC was good for one's soul. Indeed, even the BIBLE says that it is good to \\"make a JOYOUS sound unto the Lord!\\" ... Right? ... RIGHT! ...<br />... Okay - so if you can catch my drift - where this is all heading is probably that WHATEVER the GOOD life is, it most likely will involve the creation and / or enjoyment of the simulaneously entertaining and enlightening powers of music - especially JOYFUL music! ... And I can think of no other music that has been popular to at least some degree in the span of the history of RECORDED music on this planet than the TRULY unique, original, and absolutely JOYOUS music of Don Van Vliet, AKA Captain Beefheart and The Magic Band. This music EXUDES pure, unadulerated JOY. It is also both very ENLIGHTENING as well as very ENTERTAINING. ... It is ENLIGHTENING because - as Gurdjieff claimed that ALL true art must do - it challenges the conventional listening mindset of the listener, waking people up out of their \\"catatonic\\" state, as Van Vliet used to constantly say and strive to achieve with his music. In this sense, like the doses of LSD that he and his cohorts used to partake of, his music is very liberating from the chains that bind most musicians and humans in general. Van Vliet is like a demiurge, avatar, or 'fallen' angel sent from God to inspire mankind to get back on track to the \\"true religion\\" that respects ALL of Nature and redeems all of The Creator's beings back into a JOYOUS state of childlike grace - as it was before man fell asleep into the catatonic state which accompanied the fall from grace. ... This music is freeing! It is music fit for Plato's cave; fit for the Eleusinian Mystery Rights; fit for any Acid Test put on by Ken Kesey & The Merry Pranksters, or The Grateful Dead, or any of the more recent revelers of the ancient mystery rights of old. ...<br />... Reading this GREAT book by Mike Barnes brings this ALL into perspective. It is a VERY respectful piece of work, doing a GREAT service to both the man and his music - as well as to the numerous talened musicians who sacrificed EVERYTHING over years and years in order to help birth this music into being. Our gratitude goes out to every one of them. They were not called the MAGIC BAND for nothing! ...<br />... I only found what I believe to be one FACTUAL error in this book ( though there exist over a dozen typographical errors ), and that is not by the author, but by one of the latter members of the Magic Band as mentioned in a story he told to the author that appears on page 246. I may be wrong, but I believe that it was Mississippi Fred McDowell  ( NOT Mississippi John Hurt, as stated ) who wrote the blues song called \\"Red Cross Store\\" that Beefheart played over and over for the Magic Band member while he sat in the closet for hours! Indeed, there is NOTHING as hautning on this earth as the sound of a bluesy Slide Guitar - other than possibly the sound of steel Railroad Car wheels on cold, steel Railroad Tracks first thing in the chilly winter morning as the train slowly edges its way from a complete standstill to a rolling slide down the tracks. ...<br />... Let's leave the final word to Don Van Vliet: \\"Fulfilling the absence of space between the opposite meanings. I think that's essentially what I think. That came the other night. It came blasting into my head. I quickly wrote it down. Yes, that's what painting is.\\" - Don Van Vliet to John You ...<br />... YOWZA! - The Aeolian Kid	2002-11-09
US	49921140	R3OVZFFOTWWKNA	0806520744	812429023	Who Killed Kurt Cobain? The Mysterious Death of an Icon	Books	5	2	4	N	N	Read the book FIRST! ... Then watch the movie!	... On page 197, the authors write: \\"After the show, viewers and listeners are traditionally asked to call a 900 number and register their votes for and against whatever question is asked on a particular show. At the end of our hour-long debate, the question was posed: \\"Should the case of Kurt Cobain's death be reopened by the police?\\" Thousands of people called to vote. The final result was 91 percent of the callers believed the case should indeed be reopened, with only 9 percent dissenting.\\" ...<br />... You don't even have to read this whole book! ... Just read what is written in 4 places: pages 136 and 137, page 144, page 202, and the Epilogue. ... After doing so, you, too, may come to suspect that, like that other famously talented, blonde-haired, Pisces musician and band-founder - Brian Jones of The Rolling Stones - who also died in very suspicious circumstances, Kurt Cobain's death and alleged suicide may not have been a suicide at all! ... That's all I'm going to say. ... YOWZA! - The Aeolian Kid	2002-10-22
US	49921140	R1TC4Q4UG2KE9R	0786865059	155539746	Heavier Than Heaven: A Biography of Kurt Cobain	Books	4	1	3	N	N	A Troubled Soul in Love with Rock and Roll reaches Greatness	... Man, it's all right here - as Charles Cross documents - in Kurt's own words, on page 191:<br />... &quot;Before he left Olympia, Kurt sat down and wrote a final letter to Eugene Kelly of the Vaselines, thanking him for playing with Nirvana at Reading. In the letter, he demonstrated he had already begun emotionally departing Olympia. ...<br />... He wrote of the recent conflict with Iraq: &quot;We won the war. Patriotic hypocricy is in full effect. We have the privilege of purchasing Desert Storm trading cards, flags, bumper stickers, and many video versions of our triumphant victory. When I walk down the street I feel like I'm at a Nuremberg rally. Hey, maybe [ we ] can tour together in the States and burn American flags on stage?&quot;<br />... He ended the letter with yet another description of his circumsances, which, if Kurt had mailed the letter - as usual, he never put it in the post - probably would have shocked Kelly and anyone else who saw Kurt onstage in Reading, playing to 70,000 adoring fans. &quot;I got evicted from my apartment. I'm living in my car so I have no address, but here's Krist's phone number for messages. Your pal, Kurdt.&quot; That same week, the &quot;Smells Like Teen Spirit&quot; single went on sale in record shops.&quot;<br />... That says it all! ... If THIS isn't Rock and Roll, NOTHING is! ... YOWZA! - The Aeolian Kid	2002-10-16
US	49921140	R3ODB5Z7GPDORU	0960038817	587050709	The Boo Hoo Bible, The Neo-American Church Catechism and Handbook	Books	5	19	22	N	N	Clearly, GOD has an EXCELLENT sense of humor!	... When you've searched everywhere else, and have turned over every stone, and you still feel like there is something missing from your life, then it is time to GET REAL. ... You may THINK that this book is a joke - but it is NO JOKE. ... Or, paradoxically, like the Native American Holy Man - THE HEYOKA - who does everything backwards from standard and conventional procedure; like Ken Kesey's Merry Pranksters; like the Buddhist Holy Madmen and Zen Master Sages; and like the true Christian Saints who are \\"Fools for Christ,\\" those who have \\"ears to hear and eyes to see\\" the truth in the pages of this book will be called by the Great Holy Spirit to walk that Eleusinian path into the halls of enlightenment and bliss - even though to most normal people this looks like a Comic Book for Hippie Freaks! ... The Boo Hoo Bible is the closest thing you will get to truth in the English language outside of hearing yourself talk during the peak of a major acid trip. ... You don't believe me? ... Read this book; then take 500 micrograms of pure LSD and read it AGAIN! ... It will all be clear. ... Psychedelic - in ancient Greek - means \\"pure soul\\" ... and you can't get any more spiritual than that! ... YOWZA! - The Aeolian Kid	2002-10-02
US	49921140	R1PMK8O20ZSEM6	1858288460	776258843	Rough Reading Music Tipbook 1 (Rough Guide Tipbooks)	Books	5	7	8	N	N	All You Need to Know to Read and Write Music!	... I just finished reading this little book. ... Yeah, I've come across some of this stuff before in my life: during music class in grade, middle, and high school; while taking guitar lessons at age 11 for a few weeks; while taking piano lessons at age 13 for a few months; while trying to teach myself guitar with books at age 14; while taking drum lessons for a few months at age 20; as well as what you come across while reading music magazines, music books, or jamming with your buddies. ... Compared to ALL of that combined exposure, I learned MORE from reading this little book than I did from all of my previous lessons in music. That's saying a LOT for a little book.<br />... Look, I'm a DRUMMER. I don't REALLY need to know all this THEORY stuff. But let me tell you: the next time I get together and jam with my friends, for the first time in my life, I am going to have at least SOME understanding of what the hell the guitar players and keyboardists are talking about. Yeah, allright, you might play by ear like Paul McCartney and Jimi Hendrix, too - as do I. ... But if you want to UNDERSTAND what Zappa KNEW like the back of his hand, then you NEED to know some Music Theory. You can start with this cool litle book! It makes a handy reference, especially when you can brag to your Music Major friends that NIRVANA were the masters of the art of &quot;Fortepiano&quot; ( &quot;Loud, immediately followed by soft.&quot; ) ... YOWZA! - The Aeolian Kid	2002-10-01
US	49921140	R38SXR119EIZB2	0960038868	747879312	Millbrook, A Narrative of the Early Years of American Psychedelianism Recension of 1997	Books	5	5	7	N	N	A Metanoic Masterpiece of Spiritual Transcendence!	... Man, I fall in love with this book every time I read it. ... There are books, and then there are STORIES made into BOOKS. This book is one of the greatest STORIES ever told. ... WHY? ... Because there is NOTHING more important in this world than spiritual enlightenment that can lead to ultimate spiritual liberation - and that is the truth. MILLBROOK is a book that, if read with an open mind and with an open heart, will bring you ever so closer to understanding what enlightenment is all about. Gaining that understanding - which can lead to enlightenment and the transcendence of illusion - is of great value in any day and age. Reading MILLBROOK will most definitely increase your understanding of enlightenment; no small feat. ... It will not guarantee that you will become enlightened, which is the negation of illusion ( and NOT the aquisition of ANYTHING! ), but it WILL bring you closer. Along the way, you will be entertained by one of the most glorious, interesting, and humorous bunch of characters you will ever come across in the world of literature. ... Trust me! If you read this book, you will love it so much that you will not only want to read all four versions of it, but you will also want to read THE BOO HOO BIBLE and every remaining issue of DIVINE TOAD SWEAT available in existence before you will be satisfied that you have a full and clear understanding of the writings of Art Kleps; a true, modern, American philosopher if we ever had one. ... I am sorry he dropped his body before I had the chance to have a true conversation with him face to face. ... But it ultimately doesn't matter, anyway. He has left us these pearls of wisdom to shine on our path forever! For that alone, we thank him with all our hearts. ... YOWZA! - The Aeolian Kid	2002-09-25
US	49921140	RN0ZTENWAPBJ8	0767911857	603654344	A Long Strange Trip: The Inside History of the Grateful Dead	Books	5	2	4	N	N	Furthering the towing of The Boat of The Sun... with Joy!	... &quot;In the Underworld, where there is no wind, the Boat of The Sun is towed along, and this task is undertaken by The Grateful Dead.&quot; - The Egyptian Book of The Dead ... <br />... When we were all undergraduate &quot;Umies&quot; at U-Mass, Amherst, tripping our brains out and hanging-out with fellow Boo-Hoos of Art Klep's Neo-American Church ( from whose classic, psychedelic masterpiece - MILLBROOK - Dennis so thoughtfully quotes from! ), Dennis McNally was getting his Ph.D. in American History on the same campus, where Metawampe the Indian Chief reigns behind the Student Union. ...<br />... Dennis went on to write the best biography written so far on Jack Kerouac ( who came from my home town ): DESOLATE ANGEL: JACK KEROUAC, THE BEAT GENERATION, AND AMERICA. When he came to Lowell, MA to interview my uncle, Billy Koumantzelis ( one of Jack's closest friends until the day he died ) for his book, my uncle was very impressed with his personality and professionalism. He liked him. ( My uncle is not easily impressed ). ... Knowing that Dennis knew what he knew: that Ken Kesey - through Neal Cassady - was the true link between Kerouac &amp; The Beats and The Dead &amp; The Hippies, Garcia intuitively understood that Dennis McNally would be the man to help the Grateful Dead make their trip through historical time as clearly understood as was humanly possible to the great, unenlightened masses of post-modern America; and he was right! Dennis McNally has once again succeeded at a monumental task, and my own personal hat is off to him! ...<br />... Whether you love The Grateful Dead or not, reading this book will help bring your sociological understanding of The Sixties into sharp focus. McNally writes like a historian - but with flair! You are going to absolutely fall in love with the characters in this book. ( I love the story about Owsley Stanley and his all-meat, Eskimo diet! ) The best part about it is: it's ALL TRUE - and we were all there living through it together every step of the way. ... And you know what's even better? ... This trip is not over yet! ... It NEVER ends! ... YOWZA! - The Aeolian Kid	2002-09-21
US	49921140	R13BYOBM0DWK0X	078580899X	325850680	Jazz: Legends of Style	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A Perfect Introduction To The World Of JAZZ !!!	A Perfect Introduction To The World Of JAZZ !!! ... This huge,<BR>hardcover book, filled with beautiful black & white and<BR>color photographs of all of the 300 jazz musicians included<BR>in its pages, is the perfect introduction to the world of JAZZ.<BR>... The book is organized along the theme of presenting all of the musicians in ALPHABETICAL ORDER. This makes<BR>it easy to look-up and find any artist, band leader, musician, and / or singer the reader is interested in learning about. It<BR>has a great structure of thematic unity running through it by<BR>including separate side-bars for every artist, documenting<BR>their dates of birth and / or death, the instruments they play, what songs they might be famous for, and the names of some of their most popular albums.<BR>... The biographical information is very well done, and it is<BR>quite clear that the author, Keith Shadwick, truly knows a lot<BR>about jazz and wrote this book as a labor of love. If you're<BR>just starting to break the ice into the wonderful music of jazz, or if you want to have an easy reference book on hand to share with your friends as a beautiful coffee-table book<BR>that all can enjoy looking through, then THIS is the book to<BR>get! ... YOWZA! ...	2002-08-28
US	49921140	R1DLYTZ5CHX8HS	0679427724	555570204	Shakey: Neil Young's Biography	Books	5	1	2	N	N	The Music &amp; The Mystery Continue to Inspire!	... The Music &amp; The Mystery Continue to Inspire! ... The book itself is as &quot;UNRELENTING&quot; as the intensity of a locomotive train coming your way at full force, as &quot;UNRELENTING&quot; as Neil Young's guitar solo in Like A Hurricane, and as &quot;UNRELENTING&quot; as the man himself. ... JUST  READ  IT!  ... YOWZA! - The Aeolian Kid	2002-08-05
US	49921140	R2MGGIT7AS9KD6	0789480468	688996091	Bill Wyman's Blues Odyssey: A Journey to Music's Heart & Soul	Books	5	4	5	N	N	A Major Masterpiece on the Mojo Music of America!	Bill Wyman - of The Rolling Stones, and The Rhythm Kings - has written a major masterpiece on the mojo music of America. This is The Blues. ... There is no other music as deeply authentic and as emotionally gutsy as the blues. It is a music based on a feeling whose archetypal root is grounded in the solitary pain of the existential core of realty: LONELINESS - and the joyous TRANSCENDENCE of that loneliness. ... We all feel pain, and because of this we can all relate to the blues - the loneliness, the pain, the anger, the freedom to rebel from it, and the joy of the thrill and excitement of escaping from this loneliness. ... Only the blues, in its powerful simplicity of delivery, can sincerely convey these emotions to and from the human soul. It is these same emotions which many musicians, including Bill Wyman, have been inspired by to play the blues - and which cause us to RESONATE with the blues we hear being played by our fellow musicians. Non-musicians in touch with these same basic feelings deep in their soul feel the same way when they hear the blues being played. It's like someone is saying, with musical words: &quot;Man, that's EXACTLY how I feel, and how it is!&quot; ... It is THIS spirit of EMPATHY for the blues that is captured in this excellent book by Bill Wyman. ... If you have ever been moved by the blues and want to learn more about it, but don't know where to start, then start with this book! It is well written, has glorious photographs, pays true homage and respect to the musicians who created this musical artform, and contains many personal stories about Bill Wyman's musical journey through life as a blues musician as well. ... I admit: I am an ENTHUSIAST - and I am very enthused about this book because I KNOW that it will inspire ENTHUSIASM for the blues in everyone who reads it. ... BRAHVO, Bill Wyman, on a work well done! ... - The Aeolian Kid	2002-05-26
US	49921140	R2E3H0ETSYD8UK	0789480468	688996091	Bill Wyman's Blues Odyssey: A Journey to Music's Heart & Soul	Books	5	0	1	N	N	A Major Masterpiece on the Mojo Music of America!	Bill Wyman - of The Rolling Stones, and The Rhythm Kings - has written a major masterpiece on the mojo music of America. This is The Blues. ... There is no other music as deeply authentic and as emotionally gutsy as the blues. It is a music based on a feeling whose archetypal root is grounded in the solitary pain of the existential core of reality: LONELINESS - and the joyous TRANSCENDENCE of that loneliness. ... We all feel pain, and because of this we can all relate to the blues - the loneliness, the pain, the anger, the freedom to rebel from it, and the joy of the thrill and excitement of escaping from this loneliness. ... Only the blues, in its powerful simplicity of delivery, can sincerely convey these emotions to and from the human soul. It is these same emotions which many musicians, including Bill Wyman, have been inspired by to play the blues - and which cause us to RESONATE with the blues we hear being played by our fellow musicians. Non-musicians in touch with these same basic feelings deep in their soul feel the same way when they hear the blues being played. It's like someone is saying, with musical words: &quot;Man, that's EXACTLY how I feel, and how it is!&quot; ... It is THIS spirit of EMPATHY for the blues that is captured in this excellent book by Bill Wyman. ... If you have ever been moved by the blues and want to learn more about it, but don't know where to start, then start with this book! It is well written, has glorious photographs, pays true homage and respect to the musicians who created this musical artform, and contains many personal stories about Bill Wyman's musical journey through life as a blues musician as well. ... I admit: I am an ENTHUSIAST - and I am very enthused about this book because I KNOW that it will inspire ENTHUSIASM for the blues in everyone who reads it. ... BRAHVO, Bill Wyman, on a work well done! ... - The Aeolian Kid	2002-05-26
US	49921140	RZSC06TTS0K26	0807043400	923136593	I'll Be Short: Essentials for a Decent Working Society	Books	5	14	15	N	N	Short and Sweet and Right-On Target!	... Hey, Robert Reich! ... I BOUGHT your book. I READ your book. I LOVE your book! ... You are the voice of decency and sanity. If you run for Governor of Massachusetts, you've got my vote! In fact, you may get even MORE than my vote; you may also get my attention, energy, money, and time.  ... What you wrote on pages 101 and 102 hits the nail right on the head: &quot;At the very moment working Americans are toiling longer hours for less money, they want to cut the Earned Income Tax Credit to pay for tax breaks for the wealthy. ... Their strategy is simple: Divide and conquer. Ignore the real problems, get anxious people scared and mad at each other. You could even call it class warfare. And we all know it's worked before.&quot; ...<BR>... I also like what you wrote on page 115: &quot;But to become a highly productive society, we have to change our thinking about the role of government. We've become so accustomed to thinking about education, health care, child care, and public transportation as government SPENDING that we don't see the obvious: In the new global economy where financial capital is footloose, these are critical public INVESTMENTS. They mark the only path to a sustained and shared prosperity. Failure to make them - and make them wisely - condemns a society to a steadily declining standard of living. The same is true for regulations protecting worker safety, guarding the environment, and preventing discrimination. These, too, are investments in our future.&quot;<BR>... As the former owner of a natural food store, a member of a dozen environmental groups, and a sociology major who focused on conflict theory and social stratification, I KNOW that YOU know what you are talking about - and I agree with all of it. ... Good Luck in your run for Governor! - The Aeolian Kid	2002-05-20
US	49921140	RQFYN00C5BKEZ	0465006957	262036966	Religion Explained	Books	3	1	10	N	N	The Academy will love it! ... As for the rest of us? ...	... The Academy will love this book! It reads like a doctoral dissertation Ph.D. thesis - well organized, lucidly presented, academically sound ... and BORING AS [HECK}!!! ... I excitedly bought this book with the hope that it would explain to me the mysteries of the human mind in relation to religion. Instead, I got a 333 page book on one man's ideas about WHY he thinks humans BELIEVE in what they do, and HOW this occurs in society. ... Sounds good so far. The problem is that it just does not go FAR enough, DEEP enough, or WIDE enough into the topic of beliefs. Also, it is presented in a way that is very hard to understand for two reasons: 1. As organized as it is, the reader does NOT know ahead of time WHERE it is all leading. 2. The way this author writes is VERY confusing. ... Listen, I've read over 1000  books in my life - most of them before I turned 30 - and, outside of a few Math Textbooks in math class in college, this has got to be one of the HARDEST books to read I have ever read in my life! No doubt about that in my mind. ... I give this book 3 Stars because the author, indeed, DOES make MANY excellent points along the way. It's just too bad you have to sift through so much sand before you find those diamonds!<BR>... I am glad I read this book. I learned a lot. Still, I think it misses its mark. I think the author needs to read some Terence McKenna and have his mind blown. The insides of this book are just like the cover: dark, spooky, black & white, and always talking about science or witchcraft. ... This book needs to be revised, and it needs to add some COLOR and JOY and LIFE to its pages. - The Aeolian Kid	2002-04-23
US	49921140	R36NC7VYCPFWUP	1871592712	434031427	Brian Jones : The Last Decadent	Books	5	11	22	N	N	Brian Jones:  A Powerful PISCES & Musical Vissionary!	... This book about the life, death, and character of Brian Jones is absolutely as beautiful as it is chilling! ... Jeremy Reed has the gifted ability to transcend time and space and bring us right into the heart and soul - and life circumstances at the time of his death - of Brian Jones, founder and one-time leader of The Rolling Stones. ... I do not know if the conclusion of this book is true: that Brian Jones was killed and murdered in the swimming pool at his own country home by a group of bloody blockheads who were friends with employees of the Rolling Stones organization; but after reading this book, Bill Wyman's STONE ALONE, and the most recent OLD GODS ALMOST DEAD (about The Rolling Stones, by Stephen Davis), there is absolutely no doubt in my mind that Brian Jones' death was no accident! ... I was pissed after reading this book! Pissed, and sad. ... Where in the hell were the other Rolling Stones within hours of this happening to Brian, and why did they NOT insist on a thorough, precise, and intense investigation into his death?! THIS question haunts me MORE than if Brian was murdered or died of \\"misadventure;\\" MORE than if Brian was heterosexual, homosexual, or bisexual; and even MORE than if he, indeed, was getting his act together and on the verge of forming another great band. (On the last postulation, I have no doubt!). ... So, the real question to ask is: If Brian Jones was murdered, WHY was Brian murdered - and more importantly - to WHOSE BENEFIT would it be to see Brian dead? ... RIGHT?! ... 1969 was a bad year: The Beatles broke-up, Brian Jones \\"died,\\" and The Rolling Stones had to suffer their own DEGREE OF MURDER (indeed!) during Altamont. ... The Beatles and The Stones had a lot in common, but especially astrologically. Both bands had a combination of 2 trines and 2 squares. In the Beatles, Lennon (Libra) and McCartney (Gemini) were both trined AIR signs, whereas Harrison (Pisces) and Starr (Cancer) were both trined WATER signs. Also, Lennon was\\"squared\\" to Starr, and McCartney was \\"squared\\" to Harrison. ... In the Stones, Jones (Pisces) and Wyman (Scorpio) were both trined WATER signs, whereas Jagger (Leo) and Richards (Sagittarius) are both trined FIRE signs. Jones was \\"squared\\" to Richards, and Wyman was \\"squared\\" to Jagger. The 5th member of The Stones, Charlie Watts (a Gemini), is \\"opposite\\" Richards, \\"sextiled\\" to Jagger, \\"inconjunct\\" to Wyman, and ALSO \\"squared\\" to Jones. THIS made Brian the odd man out, with a DOUBLE-SQUARE against him!! Oppositions are no picnic, but they harbour a certain degree of respect. Squares, on the other hand, can be VERY disrespectful. ... This book sheds much light on the sensitive soul of Brian Jones. Pages 29 and 94 also have some very inuitively perceptive and right-on remarks about serious sociological realities in modern capitalist societies; realities that - as a true artist - Brian found himself at odds with. Yet, unlike Jagger & Richards - who tried to bribe their way out of jail - when Brian got busted the first time, he honestly and openly admitted that the pot and / or hash - and ONLY that - were his. He did not lie! He may have been a petty thief at times, an irresponsible parent, and an abusive misogynist - to say nothing of his alcohol abuse - but he was honorable, dignified, and true to his artistic and individualistic spirit till the end. ... He loved music. Brian Jones was a Dionysiac Adonis and a Lord of The Muse, who he served with all his heart and soul. ... This book sheds light on the truth. If you love Brian Jones, if you love The Rolling Stones, and if you love the music that inspired them all to devote their lives to it, then you MUST read this short, but very insightful, book by Jeremy Reed. It is truly a labor of love. - The Aeolian Kid.	2002-04-13
US	49921140	R300D3B3UP3ZKE	0062516590	943614953	The Legacy of Luna: The Story of a Tree, a Woman and the Struggle to Save the Redwoods	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A Monumental Masterpiece - like the Tree that inspired it!	... A Monumental Masterpiece - like the Tree that inspired it! ... and A Labor of Love! ... Julia Butterfly Hill is the Henry David Thoreau, the Rachel Carson, and the Edward Abbey of her generation. ... Start reading this book, and not only will you NOT be able to put in DOWN, it just might inspire YOU to climb UP a tree as well and put YOUR life on the line to help save some of the last endangered species we have left of this planet. ... Jacques Cousteau would have been VERY proud of this beautiful lady! Her head and heart are in the right place - and she put her body right in line as well in order to stay true to her vision. ... It is THAT VISION entrusted in the minds and hearts of people like Julia Butterfly Hill that, ultimately, will save this planet (hopefully) from ecological apocalypse. ... God bless this beautiful girl with the guts of a hero and the heart of a saint for sticking her neck out in order to save one beloved old tree! In doing so, she is giving  inspiration to a generation of people who CARE but who may not know WHERE to start or HOW to follow-through on their convictions. ... Julia Butterfly Hill has mastered the athletic and graceful art of following-through on her shots until victory is achieved! ... Read the book, join an environmental group, and BELIEVE it when The Bible - in The Book of Revelation - says: &quot;The Lord will destroy those who destroy The Earth.&quot; ... - Earth Worker / The Aeolian Kid	2002-03-18
US	49921140	R1AY0DFBWZANX6	0684870649	24128339	All You Need to Know About the Music Business: Revised and Updated for the 21st Century	Books	5	3	7	N	N	DON'T Put It Off !!! ... Read it NOW, before it's too late!	... \\"Listen-Up, Spuds!\\" - as DEVO and Neil Young would say - and heed this advice: DON'T Put It Off !!! ... Read it NOW, before it's too late! ... Yeah, it's a HARDCOVER. ... Yeah, it's kind of COSTLY. ... Yeah, it's a BIG book with a lot of legal jargon and business mumbo-jumbo. ... TOO BAD! ... Ignore it at your own peril! ... Read this book now - NOW! - before you get in so deep into the deep water in the deep end of the pool, and don't know what happened, how to deal with it, or what you can do to get out of it without having to hire a lawyer for THOUSANDS of dollars to save you from economic ruin! ... Trust me: just buy it, read it, and make everyone else in your band read it, too! ... You will NEVER regret it - NEVER! ... Besides, Donald Passman writes like a real pro and makes it interesting and fun to read. You WILL get a number of laughs out of this book, too. It's THAT good... YOWZA! - The Aeolian Kid	2002-03-17
US	49921140	R30JY0LSCWS9VS	1871592712	434031427	Brian Jones : The Last Decadent	Books	5	6	13	N	N	Absolutely as Beautiful as it is Chilling!!	... This book about the life, death, and character of Brian Jones is absolutely as beautiful as it is chilling! ... Jeremy Reed has the gifted ability to transcend time and space and bring us right into the heart and soul - and life circumstances at the time of his death - of Brian Jones, founder and one-time leader of The Rolling Stones. ... I do not know if the conclusion of this book is true: that Brian Jones was killed and murdered in the swimming pool at his own country home by a group of bloody blockheads who were friends with employees of the Rolling Stones organization; but after reading this book, Bill Wyman's STONE ALONE, and the most recent OLD GODS ALMOST DEAD (about The Rolling Stones, by Stephen Davis), there is absolutely no doubt in my mind that Brian Jones' death was no accident! ... I was [mad] after reading this book! [Mad], and sad. ... Where in the hell were the other Rolling Stones within hours of this happening to Brian, and why did they NOT insist on a thorough, precise, and intense investigation into his death?! THIS question haunts me MORE than if Brian was murdered or died of \\"misadventure;\\" MORE than if Brian was heterosexual, homosexual, or bisexual; and even MORE than if he, indeed, was getting his act together and on the verge of forming another great band. (On the last postulation, I have no doubt!). ... So, the real question to ask is: If Brian Jones was murdered, WHY was Brian murdered - and more importantly - to WHOSE BENEFIT would it be to see Brian dead? ... RIGHT?! ... 1969 was a bad year: The Beatles broke-up, Brian Jones \\"died,\\" and The Rolling Stones had to suffer their own DEGREE OF MURDER (indeed!) during Altamont. ... The Beatles and The Stones had a lot in common, but especially astrologically. Both bands had a combination of 2 trines and 2 squares. In the Beatles, Lennon (Libra) and McCartney (Gemini) were both trined AIR signs, whereas Harrison (Pisces) and Starr (Cancer) were both trined WATER signs. Also, Lennon was \\"squared\\" to Starr, and McCartney was \\"squared\\" to Harrison. ... In the Stones, Jones (Pisces) and Wyman (Scorpio) were both trined WATER signs, whereas Jagger (Leo) and Richards (Sagittarius) are both trined FIRE signs. Jones was \\"squared\\" to Richards, and Wyman was \\"squared\\" to Jagger. The 5th member of The Stones, Charlie Watts (a Gemini), is \\"opposite\\" Richards, \\"sextiled\\" to Jagger, \\"inconjunct\\" to Wyman, and ALSO \\"squared\\" to Jones. THIS made Brian the odd man out, with a DOUBLE-SQUARE against him!! Oppositions are no picnic, but they harbour a certain degree of respect. Squares, on the other hand, can be VERY disrespectful. ... This book sheds much light on the sensitive soul of Brian Jones. Pages 29 and 94 also have some very inuitively perceptive and right-on remarks about serious sociological realities in modern capitalist societies; realities that - as a true artist - Brian found himself at odds with. Yet, unlike Jagger & Richards - who tried to bribe their way out of jail - when Brian got busted the first time, he honestly and openly admitted that the pot and / or hash - and ONLY that - were his. He did not lie! He may have been a petty thief at times, an irresponsible parent, and an abusive misogynist - to say nothing of his alcohol abuse - but he was honorable, dignified, and true to his artistic and individualistic spirit till the end. ... He loved music. Brian Jones was a Dionysiac Adonis and a Lord of The Muse, who he served with all his heart and soul. ... This book sheds light on the truth. If you love Brian Jones, if you love The Rolling Stones, and if you love the music that inspired them all to devote their lives to it, then you MUST read this short, but very insightful, book by Jeremy Reed. It is truly a labor of love. - The Aeolian Kid.	2002-03-13
US	49921140	R1TQNGC8ISL3G0	0767903129	505579595	Old Gods Almost Dead: The 40-Year Odyssey of the Rolling Stones	Books	5	6	8	N	N	It Must Be HARD to be a Rolling Stone! ...	... It Must Be HARD to be a Rolling Stone! ... That's all I can say! ... After reading this book, I'm not sure I would EVER want to end up in a touring rock band like The Rolling Stones. It's simply not WORTH all the money in the world! You got to give those guys credit: they all worked their butts off to get where they are, and this book proves it. ... It also comes very close to proving that Brian Jones really was MURDERED, as many of us in America believed all along. It shows how without the crystal-clear vision, unbending will, and immense drive and talent of Brian Jones in the first few years to make The Rollin' Stones a successful working band, they would have NEVER gotten to where they are today - and it's a sickenning crime and a terrible tragedy how Brian ended up, dead, at the botom of his own swimming pool, in his own back yard, surrounded by hostile sycophants and malevolant evil-doers!! ... This book is an absolutely FANTASTIC and FASCINATING read up to the point of Brian's murder. After that, it's a GREAT read up to the point of the departure of MICK TAYLOR. (Speaking of which, have you ever noticed how the song Can't You Hear Me Knockin' on The Rolling Stones 1971 album Sticky Fingers sounds EXACTLY like the song For Mods Only on Chico Hamilton's 1966 album The Dealer? ... What's up with THAT?! ... Maybe Ry Cooder IS right in calling The Stones bloodsucking thieves?) ... From the point when Ron Wood joins the band till the end of the book, it is significantly less interesting - and understandably so. Let's face it, The Stones' greatest albums are AFTERMATH, BEGGAR'S BANQUET, and LET IT BLEED (with Brian Jones); GET YER YA YAS OUT, STICKY FINGERS, and EXILE ON MAIN STREET (with Mick Taylor); and then SOME GIRLS , EMOTIONAL RESCUE, and TATTOO YOU (with Ron Wood). Of them all, BEGGAR'S BANQUET wears the crown - and we all know why! ... If you want to know  what inspired and went into making this great music - as well as the circumstances surrounding thelives of the major players (and some of the minor players like Ian Stewart, Ry Cooder, and Gram Parsons) - then you will be satisfactorily rewarded by reading  this well-detailed and well-crafted chronology of the ON-GOING carreer of \\"the greatest rock 'n' roll band in the world.\\" ... - The Aeolian Kid.	2002-03-11
US	49921140	RAYU45RHI8DZP	0306807831	730958694	Stone Alone: The Story of a Rock 'n' Roll Band	Books	5	26	26	N	N	1963 to 1969: 7 Magical Years of Music &amp; Madness!	... 1963 to 1969: 7 Magical Years of Music &amp; Madness! ... That's what this book is: about the first seven years of the life of The Rolling Stones - and it's INTENSE! (Would you expect otherwise from a Scorpio?). ... This book begins with a chapter called FLASH FORWARD that talks about more recent events, as an overview of their whole carreer, in the life of The Rolling Stones. It ends with the story of the free concert the Stones gave in Hyde Park on July 5, 1969 in memory of Brian Jones, who had &quot;died&quot; just 3 days before! ... In between those two poles in time, Bill Wyman fills-in the cracks - from HIS point of view, which is very detailed. One comes away with the feeling that The Stones should have ditched Andrew Loog Oldham at the start, NEVER hired Allen Klein, kept Eric Easton as their main manager, and paid Bill Wyman an extra salary to look after their monetary affairs. He would have done a better job! ... Yeah, Brian Jones should have NEVER given-in to the pressure of Oldham, Jagger &amp; Richards to boot Ian &quot;Stu&quot; Stewart out of the performing line-up of the band; but in the same light, ALL of them should never have allowed Oldham to hire Allen Klein. BIG MISTAKE! (How in their right minds could they then have even recommended him to John Lennon to manage The Beatles, too ... unless it was competitive sabotage tactics?). One comes away with the feeling from reading this book that - other than his blatant marriage infidelities -  Bill Wyman is a very decent human being and a much more talented musician than most people realise. Also, he has a sincere affection, and respect, for Brian Jones, which shines through clearly. (On this, I totally agree with the reviewer from Montgomey, Alabama.) Page 307 alone will convince anyone who has any doubts about the matter that Brian Jones was being persecuted by both people in and out of the band (as well as by the law, and even by Anita Von Pallenberg). They knew his weaknesses, and they used itagainst him to their advantage. ...  The one line in the book that hits home more than any other are Brian's words themselves, on page 289: &quot;Ghosts of the morning can be seen on the skyline, if you watch intently enough...&quot; - Brian Jones, Cork, Ireland, January, 1965. ... All in all, this book reads like a diary of one of the greatest acts of all time. I'm waiting for parts 2 and 3 to come out one day, so we will finally find out what really went on in the seventies and eighties as well! Because, if Bill Wyman kept notes until the very end of his watch in 1989 with the end of the Steel Wheels tour (I was there in Foxboro!), then those next two books covering those two decades should be just as interesting, if not as fascinating - for, after all, without Brian Jones, The Stones were never the same. ... Thank you, Bill Wyman, for an excellent expose from the inside on the working dynamics of the greatest Rock 'n' Roll band in the world! ... - The Aeolian Kid.	2002-03-11
US	49921140	RW19R9NPI20J	1871592712	434031427	Brian Jones : The Last Decadent	Books	5	7	14	N	N	Absolutely as Beautiful as it is Chilling!!	... This book about the life, death, and character of Brian Jones is absolutely as beautiful as it is chilling! ... Jeremy Reed has the gifted ability to transcend time and space and bring us right into the heart and soul - and life circumstances at the time of his death - of Brian Jones, founder and one-time leader of The Rolling Stones. ... I do not know if the conclusion of this book is true...and why did they NOT insist on a thorough, precise, and intense investigation into his death?!  THIS question haunts me MORE than if Brian was murdered or died of \\"misadventure...So, the real question to ask is: If Brian Jones was murdered, WHY was Brian murdered - and more importantly - to WHOSE BENEFIT would it be to see Brian dead? ... RIGHT?!... This book sheds much light on the sensitive soul of Brian Jones. Pages 29 and 94 also have some very inuitively perceptive and right-on remarks about serious sociological realities in modern capitalist societies; realities that - as a true artist - Brian found himself at odds with... when Brian got busted the first time, he honestly and openly admitted that the pot and / or hash - and ONLY that - were his. He did not lie! He may have been a petty thief at times, an irresponsible parent, and an abusive misogynist - to say nothing of his alcohol abuse - but he was honorable, dignified, and true to his artistic and individualistic spirit till the end. ... He loved music. Brian Jones was a Dionysiac Adonis and a Lord of The Muse, who he served with all his heart and soul. ... This book sheds light on the truth. If you love Brian Jones, if you love The Rolling Stones, and if you love the music that inspired them all to devote their lives to it, then you MUST read this short, but very insightful, book by Jeremy Reed. It is truly a labor of love. - The Aeolian Kid.	2002-03-11
US	49921140	R2YSQYY7O0CU75	0789720361	588925602	Complete Idiot's Guide to MP3: Music on the Internet	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Worth the 20 bucks, for sure. But don't stop here!	[...] This book is written by TWO authors: Rod Underhill of MP3.com, and Nat Gertler (who has written many other Complete Idiot's Guide and computer books). They each have their own slant. The book is DEFINITELY a big plug for MP3.com as an internet entity on the world wide web for online music (...). ... There is a lot of information in the book about MP3s in general as well as MP3.com - the company - in particular. So, in this case, it's a cool plug. There is also a good deal of REPETITION in the book. For instance, what it says in the \\"ROD SPEAKS\\" box on page 160 about LYCOS falling into Copyright Trouble is almost EXACTLY stated in slightly different wording on page 172 in the \\"JAM ON THIS\\" box where the heading is called: \\"Lycos Moves into Tricky Waters.\\"<br />... The authors also have included a humorous and healthy dose of democratic debate between each other as is evident on page 170 in the \\"NAT SPEAKS\\" box called: \\"THE ACT STINKS\\" where Nat Gertler CORRECTLY, I believe, clarifies the corporate unfairness of the 1992 AUDIO HOME RECORDING ACT of favoring big corporate interests over the consumer. Nat says: \\"My beloved co-author Rod, who wrote most of this chapter, isn't nasty enough towards the Audio Home Recording Act. This new tax (signed into law by Mr. \\"No New Taxes\\" himself, George Bush) has ugly causes and ugly effects: ... New taxes, weaker copyright, crippled and expensive technology, all in the name of funding international multimedia conglomerates. This act is a loser all around.\\" ... BRAHVO, Nat! ... Spoken like a true Sociologist! ... YOWZA! - The Aeolian Kid	2001-11-30
US	49921140	RFG906N3P538V	0929385225	351550043	Behold a Pale Horse	Books	4	8	11	N	N	"Many are called, but few are chosen..."	... William Cooper did not act or write like \\"a gentleman and a scholar.\\" He wrote from the heart, out of a deep and abiding conviction to expose and share what HE believed to be true facts with his fellow Americans. He loved FREEDOM! ... Nevertheless, whether you agree with his sentiments and statements or not, one has to admit that he put his money where his mouth was, held firmly to his cherished beliefs, and rode his horse to glory all the way through to the end. ... He wrote with passion and soul. ... He remained true to his vision. ... He had Indian blood!<br />... The book he wrote - whether you believe what it says to be true or not - has touched hundreds of thousands of lives around the world. This man has got a lot of people THINKING. Many others have TAKEN from him as their primary source when it was HE who exposed all of this stuff FIRST before a lot of other people ever even HEARD of any of this stuff. ... William Cooper is now dead. ... I find it to be EXTREMELY ironic and coincidental that he would die in the way he did at THIS time. ... We all have a lot to thank him for, if for no other reason than that he loved his country and served it with a brave heart. ... <br />... The following is taken directly from is website.  ...<br />\\"With a deep sense of loss and mourning we announce the passing of William Cooper. We would like to thank all of you who attended the memorial services or have sent your sympathies and prayers during this difficult time. They have given us great comfort. It appears at this time to be totally unrelated to the disputes he had with the federal government. All we know at this time is that he was shot and killed by an Apache County Sheriff around 12:15 AM Tuesday November 6th, 2001 while serving of an arrest warrant on a local issue. A sheriff was also wounded. ... Remain Calm! This is in no way a cause for action. Do NOT listen to or spread undocumented and unconfirmed RUMORS! If it is not here it is not confirmed as fact. Updates will be posted here as they become available. We MUST all remember his love of freedom, America, the Constitution and the values it is founded on.<br /> ... Thank you for your support.\\"<br />... May his soul rest in peace. - The Aeolian Kid	2001-11-26
US	49921140	R1N7BHDEMMAH8E	0684818868	458361116	Lies My Teacher Told Me : Everything Your American History Textbook Got Wrong	Books	5	1	8	N	N	A True Masterpiece of Literary Excellence!	... This book is a true masterpiece of literary excellence! ... I am not kidding! ... This book will UNDO what &quot;twenty years of schoolin', and they put you on the day shift&quot; (Dylan) books have DONE to you. ... Enlightenment, being NOT the acquisition of anyTHING but the NEGATION of illusion, is in reality, a stripping away and washing clean of noetic lies - self-induced, or conditioned from &quot;without.&quot; ... All those LIES that they have been cramming into your head since pre-school are cast away like demons by Jesus, or like smoke by the wind, when you read this book. ... Like the song says: &quot;We don't need no education. We don't need no thought-control. ... TEACHER - leave them kids alone!&quot; (Pink Floyd) ... Indeed, this book WILL enlighten you to historical truth. I guarantee it!<br />... You've never HEARD of Michael Parenti? ... Noam Chomsky is too DEEP for you? ... Howard Zinn's People's History Of The United States is not in your town library? ... FEAR NOT! ... With interlibrary loan, you can read ANY of the books written by ALL of the preceding three authors. But before you do, read THIS book - LIES MY TEACHER TOLD ME by James Loewen - FIRST. It will blow your mind!<br />... I bought this book in its hardcover edition when it was first published, and scanned parts of it then - but I never read the whole thing until I chose to read it for a Directed Studies class I was taking with Dr. Levon Chorbajian as a Sociology Major at The University of Massachusetts at Lowell in 1998. I had previously written to the author while he was still a Sociology professor at the University of Vermont, and sent him a photo I had taken of the Civil War Memorial of Black Troops on Beacon Hill in Boston, MA, when he requested people write to him in an article published in the Boston Globe that was discussing his NEW BOOK to be published called: LIES ACROSS AMERICA. ... Well, he WROTE BACK TO ME, thanked me, and we have corresponded many times over the yearssince then. <br />... In the Spring of 2000, Professor Loewen visited the University of Massachussets at Lowell and gave a lecture about his latest book. He spoke for quite a while, answered all of our questions, was kind and gracious enough to share his time and company with us, and allowed us all to take pictures with him. He even stayed on an extra day with one of our professors from the History department in order to do more research, take in the sights, and enjoy our company together. ... We were all grateful, will never forget him, and we can assure anyone reading this that he is BEYOND &quot;power politics&quot; of division, has NO radical axes to grind, and is a true gentleman and a scholar totally devoted to his discipline of researching the historical truths of our nation in order to share them with us all. ... THANK YOU, professor Loewen, for a job well done - and we wish you many more years of exciting research and documentation of dramatic discoveries that will help enlighten us all further in our quest for historical and sociological authenticity! ... - The Aeolian Kid.	2001-11-26
US	49921140	R2MXH2W5WLG2WK	0953881016	571638377	Children of the Matrix: How an Interdimensional Race has Controlled the World for Thousands of Years-and Still Does	Books	4	391	451	N	N	Somewhat Factually Flawed - But Certainly Thought-Provoking	... Children of the Matrix by David Icke. ... Man, this is the most FUN read I have had since I first read A Separate Reality by Carlos Castaneda in 1973! This book is either the greatest kind of &quot;comic books for adults&quot; or one of the best investigative works of undercover intellectual exposes on our current state of affairs ever! ... Roll together Who Rules America by G. William Domhoff, The Power Elite by C. Wright Mills, When Corporations Rule the World by David C. Korten, On A Pale Horse by William Cooper, The People's History of the United States by Howard Zinn, ANYTHING by either Noam Chomsky or Michael Parenti, and a good helping of Gary Allen, Eric Von Daniken, and The Dulce Wars by Branton, and you will pretty much get the gist of this huge tome dealing with aliens, conspiracies, and good old class warfare! ... YOWZA! ...<br />... Now, on page 402, David Icke writes: &quot;I instinctively knew from an early age that schools were places where the clones of tomorrow were honed and produced. I was, therefore, a rebel from the start. I have never passed a major school exam in my life (and never taken one), never went to college or university, and have done all my learning in my time and on my terms.&quot; - AND IT SHOWS! ... If David Icke (and don't get me wrong: I LIKE him!) wants people to take what he is saying SERIOUSLY, then I am afraid he is going to have to either study harder or go back to school to get some of his facts straight - because I, alone (on ONE reading), found what I believe to be MANY mistakes in this book.<br />... For example, on page 197, he writes: &quot;Even the term 'TESTAMENT' is the entomological confirmation that it is literally all a load of balls.&quot; What he MEANT to say was ETYMOLOGICAL - the linguistical study of the origin &amp; meaning of words. Instead, he used the word concerning the study of INSECTS: entomology. This BUGS me! If David wants people to take him seriously (and not just make money selling them books about aliens, reptilians, and class-warfare), then he needs to increase his intellectual credibility by DEFINING words correctly and using more PRECISE language, as Socrates preached many moons ago.<br />... On page 128 (and again on 428), he calls the Egyptian city of Alexandria, &quot;City of the Serpent's Son.&quot; Now, I can speak Greek, studied it for the first 13 years of my life in school, and took ancient Greek in college as a Classics major at U-Mass, Amherst with Professor John Marry of Fordham University. &quot;Alexander&quot; is a Greek word related to the Trojan word &quot;Paris&quot; - and in Greek, Alexander means: &quot;Defender of Men.&quot; (&quot;Andros&quot; means MAN in Greek.) ... On page 148, he says &quot;Pythagoras&quot; means &quot;I am the Serpant.&quot; It does NOT; it means: &quot;Sacred Public Assembly Place of the Pythtia&quot; - Priestess of the tutelary / daimon Python and, subsequently, of Apollo at Delphi. Indeed, PYTHIA is related to Python / Snake! ... On page 149, he calls the Indian SOMA of the Hindu Bhagavad Gita, the AMBROSIA of the Greeks, and the HAOMA of the Persians, &quot;the drinking of mentrual blood, symbolised (sic) as 'red mead' or 'red wine' ... &quot; It is NOT! It is sacred, psychedelic, psilocybin mushrooms mixed with red wine, or mead (honey-wine) as the great mythologist, Robert Graves, confirmed in his book, The Greek Myths. Which begs the question: Has David Icke ever taken LSD? I'd like to know! ... On page 152, he calls St. George &quot;another name for Thor-Indara.&quot; Listen, MY name is GEORGE, and St. George was a Christian Saint of Greek extraction from Asia Minor. The name GEORGE is derived from two, ancient Greek words: GAIA (Mother Earth Goddess), and ERGON (organized work); hence: Earth Worker, or Farmer - one who tills the soil and works the earth! As a former member of the Green Party, David should KNOW that! ... On page 177, speaking of the &quot;sacrificial murder&quot; of Princess Diana- in the &quot;Place of the Moon Goddess&quot; - he fails to mention that, astrologically, Princess Diana was born under the sun sign of Cancer, ruled by the MOON! ... On page 178, he calls Helen, El-en - as in Helen of Troy. Again, Helen is the feminine Greek word derived from the VERY word in Greek which means to be a Greek: HELLINAS, of the HELLENIC Indo-European tribal group. The word for the land of Greece, in Greek, is: HELLAS - and to be a HELLENE is to be Greek. ... On page 207, he says that the name JESUS is a Greek translation; but he does not say of WHAT! The name Jesus is a HEBREW name - not Greek - derived from the HEBREW name for JOSHUA. ... On page 211, in reference to &quot;John the Baptist, and his association with water,&quot; he calls the astrological sign of aquarius a &quot;water sign.&quot; It is NOT! It is a Fixed AIR sign. Aquarius is the sign of the &quot;water-bearer,&quot; and is symbolized in the Hebrew MAZAROTH (Zodiac) as the Head of a Man associated with the tribe of Reuben of the 12 tribes of Israel. ... On page 212, he says: &quot;Mark, Luke, Matthew, and John, the names carried by the Gospels, represent the four cardinal signs of the zodiac.&quot; They do NOT! They represent the four FIXED signs of the Zodiac, as in: Taurus / Bull / from Joseph - the tribes of Ephraim &amp; Manassah; Leo / Lion / tribe of Judah (of which Jesus was from the family of David, supposedly); Scorpio / Eagle / tribe of Dan; and Aquarius / Head of a Man / tribe of Reuben. These symbols repeat in the Books of Ezekiel, possibly Isaiah, possibly Daniel, and in Revelation. ... CONTINUED! - The Aeolian Kid	2001-10-17
US	49921140	R334FWREHAR58P	1928791107	237928843	The Mp3 and Internet Audio Handbook: Your Guide to the Digital Music Revolution	Books	5	10	12	N	N	Covers THE FOREST and THE TREES equally well!	... This book by Bruce and Marty Fries covers THE FOREST and THE TREES - concerning all things about MP3 music technology - equally well! In other words, you will no longer be lost in THE FOREST about all things MP3 because of THE TREES! The authors cover the OVERVIEW (The Forest) of all things MP3 just as well as they cover all the minor DETAILS (The Trees). ... The authors make EXCELLENT teachers: they KNOW their subject well, and they know how to PRESENT it to you so that you NEVER get lost or feel left behind! The book is VERY well ORGANIZED. It is layed-out logically and flows from one chapter to the next in a natural and easy-to-follow way. Reading this book is NOT HARD, and because it is so easy to understand, you will learn faster! <br />... I can't say that I knew NOTHING about MP3 music and technology BEFORE I read this book, but after having read it I feel like I REALLY understand everything I need to know to make the right choices about how to record, play, and listen to music in the MP3 format. Most importantly, the authors do not only tell you ABOUT MP3 technology, they tell you HOW to use it, DO things with it, and WHERE to go on the world wide web to get more INFO on whatever you might be interested in concerning all things MP3. The book is packed to the gills on almost every page - cover-to-cover - with web site URL addresses where the reader can further their search for information about MP3 technology!<br />... The book is VERY thorough and detailed, with an easy-to-follow lay-out, easy-to-read text and design, and very helpful photographs and illustrations that make it almost impossible to NOT &quot;get it&quot;! After reading this book, if you don't know just about EVERYTHING concerning MP3, you just were not paying attention - because the authors have left NO STONE UNTURNED! ... The only regret I had was that they wrote the book (as they themselves confessed up-front!) for the IBM-compatible, PC crowd - and I am driving an APPLE iMac computer!!! ... I recently wrote to the authors about this, and they said that they are working right now on a revised edition that will have more information in the HOW TO SECTIONS for people using APPLE computers. This will be a welcome relief! <br />... Even so, there is a lot of helpful mention of places and products that concern the MAC CROWD (of which I'm one! : ), and they DO agree that the SOUNDJAM MP software by Cassidy &amp; Greene &quot;is one of the best for the Mac.&quot; (page 69).  So, even if you're a Mac-man like me, you really can't go wrong reading this book because it covers all the bases. It's MORE than just an introduction. It's a great REFERENCE book to keep by your computer at all times - whether you're a consumer interested in LISTENING to MP3s or a musician who is interested in CREATING MP3s in order to upload onto musical web sites, over the Internet, on the world wide web so that ANYONE in the world can listen to and/or purchase one's music! ... My hat is off to the authors for a job well done! ALSO: this book is FUN to read! ..	2001-05-08
US	49921140	R12AYG4LL7XOIX	076450648X	688370152	The iMac For Dummies (For Dummies (Computers))	Books	5	7	8	N	N	The Perfect Cure for The: &quot;What the Hell NOW!?!&quot;s	... This book - The iMac For DUMMIES (2nd Edition / 2000) - is the PERFECT CURE for the: &quot;What the Hell NOW!?!&quot;s.  : )   ... I'm serious! After reading this book, I feel a LOT more secure and a LOT more relaxed when sitting in front of my Apple computer. This book by David Pogue is a Godsend! In fact, in my case, it was a DOUBLE Godsend - because it was a gift from Amy Tine and Cindy Tello, two fine ladies who cared to find out what made me tick! (Thank you, Amy &amp; Cindy !  :)<br />... It took me a LONG time to read this book, because when it comes to tools this powerful, one cannot be too careful - and I tend to be a VERY careful person, especially with complicated and sophisticated technology. ...Anyway, it takes time to read this book, because you gotta read it when you are sitting in front of your computer. So, just accept that fact, and then GO AT IT!<br />... I love the sense of humor of this guy - David Pogue. He really makes a dry topic a fun read. Any book that mentions The Smashing Pumpkins is fine by me!  ... You will learn A LOT! ... One EXAMPLE: on page 327, David teaches you how to do what is called: Rebuilding the Desktop File. ... I did it. (As I did just about ALL of the motions he puts you through. I thought I was back in Driver's Ed again!)  I can unequivocally state that after having done what he said to do, the damn computer ran MUCH faster - and I'm packing 256 megabytes of RAM, 30 gigabytes of ROM, with a 500 megahertz Apple G3 Power Chip, over AT&amp;T Cable Road Runner ISP service! ... The tips he gives you are great! You will NEVER regret having spent the time to read this book - and don't be misled by other reviews: it WILL take time; but it's WORTH it.<br />... I also bought FIVE other Apple iMac books: My iMac / 2nd Edition by Andrew Gore; I'm Turning On My iMac, Now What? by Chris Sandlund (which I already read as a &quot;dip your toes in the water&quot; introduction);  How To Do Everything With Your iMac / Second Editionby Todd Stauffer; Sams Teach Yourself The iMac in 24 Hours / Second Edition by Gene Steinberg; and The Little iMac Book / Second Edition by Robin Williams. Like I said: I'm a real CAREFUL person! (I also WORK in a BOOKSTORE - so I get a discount, thank goodness! : ) I have only SKIMMED through most of these books, but they ALL look great, and I hope to read ALL of them. (Lord knows WHEN?! : )  I'll let you know what I think when I do.<br />... Anyway, if you want to learn how to do more than just e-mail and surf the web; if you REALLY want to know what makes your computer tick - inside &amp; out - and have a hankering to get into the guts &amp; gears, and nuts &amp; bolts of understanding how this baby (or beast?) runs; then grab this book - and keep it BY your computer at all times; because there is NO WAY you are ever going to REMEMBER all the stuff in this book (at least not right away - if ever! : ) ... The iMac does NOT come with a MANUAL. Now, maybe this NEW, paisley-print / tie-dye / hippie, iTunes, Music-oriented one does (&quot;Jeez! If I had only waited another six months!&quot; - Same Old Story : ), but I doubt it. So, you're going to need SOME kind of book like this so you don't drive the guy at the computer store CRAZY with all your questions! (Thanks, Rick! : ) ... Just sit back, put on The Grateful Dead, pretend you're back in college, crack open the book, press that ON Button on the front of your iMac, and get ready to learn HOW to DO things with, and FIX things in, your beautiful new computer. This book makes it easy to wade through the trees and see the forest for what it is: a real silicon jungle WITH PATHS that go through it - if you KNOW where to look.  ... LOOK HERE!  ... YOWZA!  -  The Aeolian Kid	2001-04-17
US	49921140	RV2957PEBPIT8	187951477X	33732655	Eating the I: A Direct Account of the Fourth Way- The Way of Using Ordinary Life to Come to Real Life (In Search of the Self), Revised & Expanded Edition	Books	5	23	30	N	N	Not Just  &quot;Eaten&quot; . . . DEVOURED!  -  Idio-Sin-Cratic-ally!	... EATING THE &quot;I&quot; is great for many reasons - the LEAST of which is Mr. Patterson's ability to candidly share with us his most inner  thoughts and feelings from both his conscious and subconscious parts of his  mind. It reads like a Woody Allen movie unfolds: with the characters'  thoughts exposed as a narration for one and all to share! You get sucked-in  immediately! The &quot;atmosphere&quot; of this book reminded me of two  movies: Smoke, and Flirting With Disaster. There is a classical balance  between the tragic and the comic that comes together in this VERY revealing  story of one man's quest for enlightenment, spiritual evolution, and  ultimate cosmic liberation.<br />... The most important reason why this is a  great book is because Mr. Patterson is an expert at being able to teach  others - through the use of words, images, and stories - about the  quintessential values, exercises, and goals of what is called The Work, or  The Fourth Way, which Gurdjieff brought to us on a silver platter. If only  people appreciated the amount of personal effort that this one man did, in  total sacrifice, for the whole world to benefit by, it would be a better  world to live in, by far! ... But they don't; and that is why we who DO  understand &quot;the terror of the situation&quot; have to work so much  harder. Mr. Patterson is no slouch, as this book testifies!<br />... I read  this book slowly, and savored it like wine. It is rich with wisdom. The  spiritual truths it conveys will stay with you - because they are  administered to you in the archetypal and mythic form of a story; in this  case - an autobiography of Mr. Patterson's own life (or, should we say,  &quot;lives&quot;?). The Greeks call them: &quot;paramythia&quot; (beyond,  or alongside, myths) - stories that have a ring of truth to them, like a  church bell heard off in the distance from miles away. They cut through to  you!<br />... There are some absolutely FASCINATING insights about both humannature AND metaphysical truths revealed in this book that make one  appreciate the fact that the author took the time to both REFLECT on his  experiences and SHARE them all with us in such an educational and  enlightening way! I, personally - who have been reading about The Work for  over 25 years - am most grateful. Though I have never been officially  associated with a school, group, or The Gurdjieff Foundation, I DO take  this spiritual path VERY seriously, and it is absolutely encouraging to  read of another's joys and troubles, gains and shortcomings, as well as  blessings and sorrows along the same path that very FEW of us have chosen  to walk down in this existential, third-bardo, maya-like dream we all call  &quot;life&quot;.<br />... On pages 40 and 41, I LOVED reading about  Gurdjieff's &quot;Anulios&quot; - the second moon around the earth,  discovered  most recently, and called &quot;Toro&quot; by Hannes Alfven,  the Nobel Physics laureate. ... I thoroughly appreciated the fact that Mr.  Patterson structured his book - enneagramatically - to have NINE chapters!  ... The dreams, printed in italics, that are placed at the end of many of  the chapters are more than just a nice touch: they reflect upon the lessons  learned and theme of the spiritual journey undertaken. (I question whether  the dream with Gurdjieff on page 93 was real or fabricated; it is so VIVID!  Nevertheless, if one were to remember a dream, one would remember THAT  one!)... The piece on RECURRENCE that appears on page 131 is simply  EXCELLENT! The dissection of the Seven Dimensions of Time &amp; Space is  made EASY to understand: &quot;Ouspensky&quot;s theory of eternal  recurrence explained it. The theory held that we had all lived our lives  before. Our lives seemed new only because we lived most of our lives in  sleep. Moments of self-remembering leave a mark, have a certain taste. Such  moments exude a subtle familiarity.&quot; Have you ever heard the song  &quot;Deja-Vu&quot; by Crosby, Stills, Nash &amp; Young? ... I KNOW I have  lived my life before - and THAT makes all the difference in a change of  attitude as well as actions!<br />... The discussion on Satan, between pages  143 and 145, is SO right-on, that it is worth buying the book just to read  these three pages! ... Page 154 has a funny and entertaining dream about  Gurdjieff and paying one's taxes! ... There is even more enlightening talk  about RECURRENCE on pages 176 and 177, and how one DOES have the ability to  &quot;change streams,&quot; boot-up to a &quot;higher octave,&quot; and  CHANGE THE FUTURE for the better! (See the film: Run Lola Run!). <br />...  Page 178 has two very different gems of wisdom for us: one is the  observation of the reality of the Tuatha da Danaan (Did Mr. Patterson  REALLY see the good &quot;little people&quot; - who may have originally,  way back, migrated to Ireland from Greece as the children of the Goddess  Diana, the huntress?): and the other is even more elucidation on the seven  dimensions of time and space. <br />... Page 199 is the crux of the pain that  Mr. Patterson had felt his whole life, and from which he may have  established his &quot;chief feature&quot; around: the fact that his Dad  totally ignored his joyous success on hitting a home run when he was around  eleven years old! How our dads not only help us, but screw us up! Just  watch the documentary on X-White Supremacist, Greg Withrow, and how he was  conditioned for a great part of his life by his dad's intolerance of  &quot;niggers&quot; - and what he made him do to his Black friend in the  back yard one day! I remember how my OWN dad one day arranged for a  showdown between me and the neighborhood bully who lived up the street. I  had never been in a fight before! He said, &quot;O.K. now you guys. You're  going to settle this once and for all - right here! Now, put 'em up!&quot;  I watched, as the older kid prepared to swing at me with underpunches. I  had never seen anything like it. It was so funny, I started laughing!  Before I knew it, I was down on the ground laughing AND crying for the  first time in my life. It was quite hilarious - and humbling.<br />... Page  207 is very touching in its recollection of praying for one's dying father,  as one gets out of one's car on an inner urge to stand by the side of the  road and just commune with the oneness of it. For is it not true that in  this dream, we ARE ALL ONE? ... Page 251 has a very good reason why  conscious individuals need to continue on their path of spiritual  liberation.  ... Page 284 has one of the greatest lines in the whole book:  &quot;A special quality of balancing of softness and tension, a readiness  appeared - that which comes when attention no longer feeds personality but  feeds upon it.&quot; ... One of the last touching moments takes place on  page 306, when Mr. Patterson and his beloved wife make the toast:  &quot;When all things are lived through to the end, there is no sadness, no  regret, no false springtime, for each moment lived pushes out a newer,  wider horizon and there is no false escape - save living.&quot; <br />... As  the ancient Greek Eleusinians, The Merry Pranksters, and all Native  American Indian Heyokas know, the &quot;Kingdom of Heaven&quot; can only be  found in life - a life well-lived - and this is THE GOOD of which Diotima,  Socrates, and Plato spoke. Gurdjieff was of the magical, Buddhist Vajrayana  White Tantric tradition - among others - and as many well knew of him, his  sense of humor and kidding around was alive and well! He was  &quot;counter-culture&quot; before his time! (Heyokas do everything  backwards!) This joyous sense of humor is essential to the awakened mind;  for above all, God has a sense of humor! That, too, comes across very well  in this magnificent book by William Patrick Patterson. - The Aeolian Kid /  Aeolian_Kid@hotmail.com	2000-08-21
US	49921140	R20MM6VZCQ67X1	156718023X	915430022	Atlantis: Insights from a Lost Civilization	Books	5	9	12	N	N	THIS BOOK IS ABSOLUTELY FASCINATING!	... If you have EVER been captivated in any way by the myth of &quot;the lost continent of Atlantis&quot;, here is your chance to satisfy your curiosity! Indeed, after reading this book, you will come to realize what  most scholars of classical antiquity take as second nature: It is a VERY  gray area between where ancient mythology ENDS and where ancient history  BEGINS. Reading this book brings the 'myth' of Atlantis ever so much closer  to us out of the mythology of the FAR past and up into the ancient history  of the more RECENT past. It is the wonderful work and lifelong dedication  of Shirley Andrews that has accomplished this for us. This book IS, truly,  &quot;a labor of love&quot;.<br />... As some of you read this book, you may  begin by thinking to yourself: &quot;WELL... this is going to be a FUN  read, but I SERIOUSLY doubt that I am going to end up BELIEVING in the  reality of any 'lost continent of Atlantis'!&quot; ... However, when you  are THROUGH reading the book (and you WILL finish reading the WHOLE  thing!), you will definitely find yourself wanting to not only read MORE  about Atlantis, but also wanting to go on any number of excursions to MANY  of the places where Ms. Andrews herself has gone to in order to personally  do her firsthand, primary research for this wonderful book.<br />... I,  myself, am very tempted to take a trip to the Canary Islands in order to  see for MYSELF all of the evidence that the author has most generously  shared with us all. ... At one time in my life, I, too, merely thought of  Atlantis as being that great, mythical place that the folk singer, Donovan,  sang of with such eloquence and respect - a song that still, to this day,  always makes the hairs stand up all over my body whenever I hear it  playing! After reading this book, the 'myth' of Atlantis has become a  REALITY for me. ... See if it does the same for you. - The Aeolian Kid	2000-08-02
US	49921140	R3F2AJCZX24Y3	1570622132	32776444	The Intelligent Enneagram	Books	5	26	27	N	N	DEEP, DETAILED &amp; DEPENDABLE!	... I found this excellent book on the enneagram to be deep, detailed, and dependable! A.G.E. Blake, a sincere student of The Work for quite some time now, really understands the enneagram - and how to EXPLAIN the way it works  to others. It is very enlightening.<br />... I have been reading books by and  about Gurdjieff and The Work for over 25 years now, and I say with total  conviction that this book is one of the best I have ever come across. It  REALLY helps the reader to understand exactly HOW the enneagram works - in  different situations, and on different &quot;levels&quot; (4th Way people  use the term &quot;octaves&quot;). Read this book, and you will be sure to  come closer to understanding the reality and truth of existence.<br />... I  love the photo on page 36 of the nine-sided building based on the enneagram  that was designed and built near London by J.G. Bennett and his students! I  love the diagram on page 208 of the &quot;Nine points of evolution&quot; -  including the Biosphere, Technosphere, and Noosphere. The photograph on  page 33 of the sacred movements class at the Sherborne House in  Gloucestershire is beautiful! The last chapter - #19: Remember to Remember  - is very good.<br />... I was a little confused about the way Mr. Blake uses  the Buddhist words &quot;samadhi&quot; and &quot;satori&quot; (I believe  near page 137). I was always of the understanding that samadhi refers to  the non-dualistic, &quot;all is one&quot; state of UNITY of the illusion;  whereas satori refers to the TRANSCENDENCE of this unified illusion into  the TRUE reality of The Void, where consciousness without an object is only  aware of itself - where it simply IS. ... Maybe Buddhist terms are not  applicable to 4th Way interpretation?<br />... I was also a little confused  over Mr. Blakes's reference on page 312 to Gurdjieff calling the poppy  plant an example of a &quot;trinity-like&quot; being. I had always thought  that Gurdjieff helped to free individuals from addictions to opium and  hashish, and that he said that: &quot;The sly man takes a pill&quot; - the  pill being an allusion to psychedelic substances, or to 4th Way exercises,  that may help catalyze spiritual enlightenment, such as: certain mushrooms,  peyote, or LSD, as well as kundalini and/or breathing exercises. The  opiates do the EXACT opposite - creating a psychological state of  self-induced narcolepsy! ... (Maybe he needs to clarify this more?)<br />...  In any case, overall, I found this long and heady book to be very  rewarding. The more you get into it, the more you wish that Mr. Blake had  actually written in even more detail! If you have the patience and  determination to read the whole thing, you will truly benefit from having  done so. After reading this book, you WILL understand how the enneagram  works as a whole system. - The Aeolian Kid / Aeolian_Kid@hotmail.comaddictions to opium and  hashish, and that he said that: &quot;The sly man takes a pill&quot; - the  pill being an allusion to psychedelic substances, or to 4th Way exercises,  that may help catalyze spiritual enlightenment, such as: certain mushrooms,  peyote, or LSD, as well as kundalini and/or breathing exercises. The  opiates do the EXACT opposite - creating a psychological state of  self-induced narcolepsy! ... (Maybe he needs to clarify this more?)<br />...  In any case, overall, I found this long and heady book to be very  rewarding. The more you get into it, the more you wish that Mr. Blake had  actually written in even more detail! If you have the patience and  determination to read the whole thing, you will truly benefit from having  done so. After reading this book, you WILL understand how the enneagram  works as a whole system. - The Aeolian Kid / Aeolian_Kid@hotmail.com	2000-06-30
US	49921140	R20XAJPFYURLRF	1571741941	92563499	Excuse Me, Your Life is Waiting : The Astonishing Power of Feelings	Books	5	9	10	N	N	READ IT! ... You'll NEVER Regret It!	... I will joyfully throw you this wonderful little KISS: &quot;Keep It Simple, Stupid!&quot; ... READ THIS BOOK! ... &quot;Just do it!&quot; ... You will NEVER regret it! Once you start, you will ask yourself: &quot;WHY  have I NOT done these SIMPLE little things BEFORE! &quot;   ... The Answer:  Because we've been trapped by our comfortable and familiar &quot;devils we  know!&quot; ... WHAT was Odysseus's greatest challenge of all? ... Getting  away from Calypso!<br />... I know this: Many of us have known many of these  underlying concepts all our lives - but few of us actually APPLY them to  our lives on a daily basis. Those of us who do are onto something! The  application of the attention to SYNCHRONICITY alone will work wonders! ...  Reading this book is like getting a blessed, 4th-Way &quot;Shock&quot; from  Gurdjieff himself! ... I loved it!  -  The Aeolian Kid   (Aeolian_Kid@hotmail.com)	2000-05-19
US	49921140	R3POBNSMOUA42O	0872863239	196376689	A Little Matter of Genocide: Holocaust and Denial in the Americas 1492 to the Present	Books	5	22	32	N	N	THIS IS THE MOTHER LODE !	FROM:()<br />Dear Reader,<br />... Listen-Up, spuds! ... If you want to read ONE book that puts it all into the proper perspective, then you've got to read THIS book. You GOTTA! ... It's &quot;a good  grab!&quot;  Not only does it cover the 500 years - from 1500 to 2000 - of  European invasion and conquest; it covers them IN DEPTH. The footnotes,  alone, are worth the price of the book.<br />... I took two courses in college  on the Native Indigenous People of the western hemisphere. Almost  everything that I learned ( and things that I didn't learn! ) on the  Indians in those two college courses is covered in this excellent book.() <br />... Read this book! ... Read the whole thing, from cover to cover, and you will truly  understand the meaning of the word, &quot;genocide.&quot; Everything will  finally appear before you in its historically appropriate and proportional  perspective. When it comes to &quot;man's inhumanity to man&quot;, it is  absolutely UNQUESTIONABLE that there have been no greater victims, over a  longer period of time, than the Native Indigenous peoples of the western  hemisphere.<br />... There is only ONE solution to this madness: awareness.  Reading this book increases your awareness - big time! Professor Ward  Churchill  ( who teaches in the Ethnic Studies department at The University  of Colorado, in Boulder ) should be commended for a great, literary work of  justice to the people of this continent - of which he is one.<br />... Unless  and until we ALL realize the archetypal truth that we are ALL ONE and  &quot;all related&quot;   ( &quot;mitakuye oyasin&quot; - as The People say  ) - and that we are ALL responsible for making right what was done wrong by  all those &quot;wasichu&quot; ( white men ) who came before us - we will  NEVER be on good term with the Indians. We ALL have benefited from the  corrupt and greedy, unjust actions of the past. It is up to all of US - who  live here now - to make honorable restitution. The FIRST thingwe can do is  to give them back some of their sacred lands that were stolen from them:  THE BLACK HILLS.   &quot;The Shining Mountains&quot; in western Colorado is  another special place that should be returned to its rightful owners; and  there are many others all across this great land, which once ALL belonged  to its original inhabitants before Europeans arrived who conveniently  forgot the meaning of the word, &quot;share.&quot; Until these few good  deeds are done, it will always be &quot;more of the same old road  apples&quot; coming out of our collective mouths, as far as the Indians are  concerned.<br />... Read this book - and then cry, get mad, and get up and DO  something about it! This book is all you will ever need to put a fire in  your belly that will glow like a firefly in heat!   - The Aeolian Kid	2000-04-21
US	49921140	R364928VTQHP9Z	0767902548	862941365	Black Dog of Fate: An American Son Uncovers His Armenian Past	Books	5	27	31	N	N	A CLASSIC MASTERPIECE	FROM: Black Dog Of Fate is a classic masterpiece! If you areArmenian, if you have Armenian relatives (as do I), or if you know anyArmenian people out there in the real world and you would like tounderstand their past better, then you will learn a lot from this book. Also, if you are interested in the history of the Middle East in general, or in the topic of genocide in particular, then you MUST read this book! You simply must.<br />... Peter Balakian is a true Azad Adzvadzazeen - &quot;a free man of God&quot; - and a poet of magnificent proportions. He writes like an artist, not a scholar. Nevertheless, he is a great scholar and researcher - as you will learn while reading the book - otherwise, he would NEVER have been able to uncover and discover all he did in the process of writing this great book. This book reads like a novel and a detective-story - not like a personal autobiography.<br />... As soon as you begin reading it, you will NOT be able to put it down. It is that good.  Your eyes will be closing, and you will say to yourself: &quot;Just one more page. Just one more chapter.&quot; The hours will fly by, and before you know it, you will have read the WHOLE book!<br />... I read this book in three days, finding it to be one of the most captivating books I have ever read. It does for the Armenian people what ELENI (the book on the Communist occupation of northern Greece, by Nicholas Gage) did for the Greek people.  Only in this case, it is The Turks who are the perpetrators of uncivilized acts of human cruelty - something The Greeks understand with total empathy, after having had endured 500 years of subjugation under Ottoman rule themselves.<br />... Reading this book will help the whole world to better understand the unacceptable suffering the Armenian people were forced to experience at the hands of the Turkish government, military, released criminals, Kurdish-sympathizers, and ruthless renegades from the true spiritual values of the Godly wisdom of Islam.<br />... This book absolutely MUST be made into a major motion picture! As you read it, it will come alive in your mind as if it were a panoramic film, playing itself out before you in your mind's eye. The images it produces in your consciousness will linger for MONTHS - if not years. I see the scope of its visionary magnitude as being on the level of &quot;Gandhi,&quot; by Richard Attenborough! It is truly a maginificent work of art.<br />... Peter Balakian has done a great service - not only to his ancestors and his people (both the living and the dead) - but to the whole world. The &quot;Armenian Genocide&quot; was the first genocide of modern history. As we all know, it was not the last. Reading this book will educate those who are now ignorant about the seriousness and total, utter gravity of the matter of human genocide, which - as we also know - is continuing till this very day in various parts of the globe.<br />... If this book does not help inspire the American people to create - once and for all - an &quot;Armenian Genocide Memorial Day,&quot; then nothing will.<br />... - The Aeolian Kid END	2000-03-23
US	49921140	R3LPDAR1VNW9QZ	1856492885	55131998	The Caucasian Knot: The History and Geopolitics of Nagorno-Karabagh (Politics in Contemporary Asia)	Books	5	6	9	N	N	Historically Accurate, Thorough &amp; Objective.	FROM: The Aeolian Kid / Aeolian_Kid@hotmail.com...<br />TO:  All amazon.com Readers...<br />DATE:  3-19-2000, 5:16 PM EST, WAMESIT...<br />ITEM:  THE CAUCASIAN KNOT: THE HISTORY AND GEOPOLITICS OF NAGORNO-KARABAGH (POLITICS IN CONTEMPORARY ASIA)<br />Dear Reader,<br />... If people want to know and  understand the historical truth (NOT the historically-revised propaganda of  certain powerful political entities) about Armenians and Armenia in  general, and the ancient Armenian region of what is now called  &quot;Nagorno-Karabagh&quot; in particular, then this is a very valuable  book to read.<br />... Every sinle statement is backed-up with academic  references in the notes section of the book. It is NOT light reading - and  not intended to be. But, if you are the kind of person who likes to  &quot;dig deep&quot; into a topic, you can dig no deeper than this book: it  is a substantial tome to be reckoned with! The authors are ALL highly  acclaimed scholars and researchers in their respective fields, and it is  quite clear that each of them knows their history and knows what they are  talking about - big time. The &quot;mass-media&quot; regular-press has NOT  fully informed the general public about the total truth of the Armenian  struggle that has been taking place in Nagorno-Karabagh! A lot of this has  to do with  the oil that is coming out of the Caspian Sea through  Azerbaijan, as well as the fact that Turkey is both a close NATO ally of  the United States and Israel.<br />... This mountainous, sacred, rich, and  beautiful part of ancient &quot;Hayastan&quot; - the Armenian name for  Armenia - is sincerely desirous of its reunification back with the  motherland, back to its original state before the Soviet Union, under  Stalin, &quot;assigned&quot; its geographic placement within the political  borders of Azerbaijan for reasons that suited the Soviet Union more than it  suited its Armenian ancient inhabitants. These people have lived here, as  Armenians, since the times of the ancient Urartian Kingdom - WAY BEFORE The  Azeris, The Russians, and The Turks laid claim to this area.<br />... Like the  struggles for independence taking place in Northern Ireland, in Palestine,  in Tibet, on the island of Cyprus, and with The Kurds, the Armenian people  of Nagorno-Karabagh want their national, geographic, and political autonomy  back. Reading this book will prove to you that the Armenian people deserve  it. It is theirs; it belongs to them - and with them it should stay.<br />...  Please, do NOT read this book if you wish to remain ignorant about this  important matter or to remain deceived about the historical truth of the  situation in Nagorno-Karabagh! It may open your eyes.	2000-03-19
