US	49920083	RA18ZYC45WIL2	0375508546	271537012	The Coffee Trader: A Novel	Books	5	40	42	N	N	A Great Read!	I loved Lisss first book, A Conspiracy of Paper, but I have to say I think I love The Coffee Trader even more.  This one is set in 17th century Amsterdam and concerns a traders efforts to get a monopoly on coffee just as coffee is first emerging in Europe.  This novel moves and feels like a thriller, and I kept turning pages late into the night to find out what happens next, but Liss doesnt rely on tricks used by cheap thrillers  no piles of bodies or burning buildings, etc.  His protagonists anxiety about debt, ruin and humiliation make this novel moving and real and very, very compelling.<br />Liss tackles a number of tough topics here: commodities speculation in the 1600s, the insularity and paranoia of the Amsterdam Jewish population, the corrupting nature of trade, and so on.  He clearly knows his stuff, and I walked away from the book feeling like I had received a great history lesson, but the book never gets bogged down with details.  Probably because the characters are so believable and compelling.  Every character has some kind of secret agenda, but it is never what you think, and the novels conclusion is risky, but very, very satisfying.  <br />This is the best historical novel Ive read in years.  It is suspenseful, funny and addictive.  Even people who dont like historicals should check it out.	2003-03-17
US	49920083	R3QFU4PKILB46E	034543076X	138364901	Manifold: Time	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Fascinating Stuff	There's a lot in this book to both engross and frustrate a reader, but I think the plusses significantly outweigh the minuses.  &quot;Manifold: Time&quot; is full of fascinating ideas and richly imagined scenarios.  I don't know if this is because of the limitations of my thinking or of Baxter's writing, but I often found myself unable to understand his quantum physics for dummies sections.  No matter: his weaving together the complexities of time and space utterly fascinating, and if I don't understand how things work, I feel confident that he understands it and is giving us good scientific theory.<br />The book centers on the idea of doom.  Is the earth doomed within the next two hundred years?  If the universe itself is doomed to destruction with the next multi-trillion of years, what does it all matter anyhow, since we have no future if the universe has no future?  Baxter does an amazing job of making the ultimate end of the universe seem both poignant and sad.  He spices his story with lots of inviting threads, such as the mysterious, super smart &quot;blue&quot; children, and the increasing intelligent genetically engineered squids, and, of course, the fate of everything.<br />His human characters, by comparison, suffer.  I never really care about the people in this book nor completely believe and/or understand their motivations.  When the theory, based entirely on statistics, that the earth is doomed in the next two centuries, is released, people turn to rioting in the streets.  I found that unlikely.  On the other hand, all of this is window dressing for Baxter's big ideas, and I found myself turning the pages and staying up late to see where it was all going.  <br />Not a perfect book, but a good one and a worthwhile one.  It has left me wanting to read the sequels, but perhaps not right away.	2001-12-31
US	49920083	R18JXXBG3IU192	0374178674	861160614	Jay's Journal of Anomalies : Conjurers, Cheats, Hustlers, Hoaxsters, Pranksters, Jokesters, Imposters, Pretenders, Side-Show Showmen, Armless Calligraphers, Mechanical Marvels, Popular Entertainments	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Great and Strange Fun	All right-thinking people everywhere have a solid affection for Ricky Jay, be it for his magic acts, his winsome and too-infrequent film roles, or his research and writing.  <br />The essays here are marvelously entertaining, each one on a specific historical performer or performance phenomenon.  The subjects vary, and, somewhat inevitably, some are more interesting than others.  What is clear, however, is that Jay has done an astonishing amount of research, and he brings his love of the material to life.  At times his writing is a bit archly formal, but that perhaps only adds to the showman like tone of the work.  I would heartily recommend this book to anyone who is interested in the history of odd performers or for anyone who simply enjoys learning about how the world is always a little bit stranger than the previously thought.	2001-12-27
US	49920083	R2CNS1QUD600JQ	1570717435	169069034	First Lady	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A fine writer has returned	I'd long given up on Michael Malone as being dead or retired or something (it turns out he was just writing for television; I'd love to know for what shows), so the publication of &quot;First Lady&quot; was a truly pleasant surprise.  It's been a long time since I read his previous novels, so it would be unfair for me to say how this new one stacks up against them.  I will say that it is a truly entertaining read and a good enough mystery, but Malone is such a wonderful writer that finding out who did it is just a small part of what keeps you turning the pages.  The writing here is sparking and lively, the characters alive and always amusing.  I can only hope Malone will continue to give us more novels.<br />I heartily suggest that newcomers snatch up whatever Malone novels they can find.	2001-12-27
US	49920083	R1Q6C2V8YBSN8T	1893554430	755889913	The Mideast Peace Process: An Autopsy	Books	5	23	26	N	N	A must read on the Palestinian/Israeli conflict	These essays, which come from the pages of &quot;Commentary,&quot; are an often cynical but always fascinating analysis of the mistakes, oversights and foolish optimism that went into the now utterly failed Oslo Accord.  Certainly there is a bias against the Palestinian side, but that bias never goes so far as to be untruthful and serves as a much needed counterpoint to the ways in which the Mideast conflict is covered by most news agencies.  I thought the collection was readable, informative, troubling and compelling, and even those who don't agree with the points of view presented here will learn a great deal about what has become one of the world's most disconcerting conflicts.	2001-12-27
US	49920083	R256T9BOZOZMI0	0521402166	386276028	The Cambridge World History of Food (2-Volume Set)	Books	5	9	11	N	N	A Truly Awesome Resource	These two hefty volumes comprise on the most useful generally-accessible material history resources I have ever seen.  It contains dozens of articles on just about every aspect of food in cultural history.  The entries range from essays on what early human begins ate to essays on specific foods (Oats, Chili Peppers, Soybeans, Ducks, etc.) along with some entries on foods that are somewhat surprising (Algae, Dogs, etc.).  There are entries on vitamins, on beverages, on food deficiently diseases and eating disorders.  On top of that, there are articles on the foods of different regions around the world.  There are entries on nutrition, on fads and on the political implications of foods.  There really just aren't any angles these volumes have overlooked.<br />The articles are written by different contributors, so there is not much consistency from piece to piece, but overall they are well written, engaging, informative, and generally lots of fun.  I can't recommend this book strongly enough.	2001-04-19
US	49920083	RY5VDLBTFK1CR	0393020053	575102119	Mauve: How One Man Invented a Color That Changed the World	Books	5	6	9	N	N	Nothing purple about this prose	Simon Garfield has written a fascinating book about the history of something we take utterly for granted, synthetic dyes, how they came about, and how they changed the world of invention.  The book focuses on the story of William Perkin, who, as a young man accidentally invents a new kind of dye that does not fade or age the way natural dyes do.  From that point on, his challenge is to find a place for his invention in society, and Garfield chronicles admirably the struggles Perkin faced and the impact his struggle had on the field of chemistry, which as a result of this new dye, changes from a field of intellectual scientific research to a field of commercial potential.  Garfield's writing is engaging and absorbing, and this is a wonderfully illuminating book.	2001-04-17
US	49920083	RAFYUL60NJVWK	0375504443	509246269	Double Fold: Libraries and the Assault on Paper	Books	5	13	19	N	N	A Convincing Rant	I first became aware of Nicholson Baker as preservation activist a few years ago when he published an article in &quot;The New Yorker&quot; on the valuable information that was being lost as old, hard-copy card catalogues were being replaced by lifeless, computerized search engines.  I'm a big far of the lifeless, computerized search engine, so I am inclined to regard Baker as a well-meaning polemicist. <br />&quot;Double Fold,&quot; however, makes a compelling case that has left me convinced.  Baker is now arguing that a vast treasure trove of cultural information is being lost as libraries destroy old newspapers in the process of &quot;preserving&quot; then by placing them on microfilm.  Not only, he suggests, is information contained in the newspapers-as-physical-object being lost, but he suggests that microform preservation is dubious and may not last as long as the original newspapers would have.  He dashes pretty convincingly all the arguments in favor of this method of preservation (space, longevity, etc.), and even suggests that the trend toward microfilm is a relic of cold war ideology that now trudges along for its own sake rather than because it is the best way keep information around forever.  Anyone who has read Baker's fiction knows what a wonderful writer he is, and this book is engaging, engrossing, at times hillarious, and at times poweful enough to make the reader furious.  &quot;Double Fold&quot; is surely for bibliophiles only, but what it contains is sure to make them hopping mad.	2001-04-17
US	49920083	R3FUU8FJPSAVGZ	0812991672	528014583	Men Seeking Women: Love and Sex On-line	Books	5	11	13	N	N	Great fun	&quot;Men Seeking Women&quot; is a genuinely entertaining collection of stories that all, in one way or another, center around sexual relations on the internet (with the curious exception of the last story by Po Bronson which, while good, doesn't seem to have anything to do with the rest of the collection).  This is a really strong group of stories that explores the impact of the internet on the interactions between the sexes in a variety of different ways and from a variety of different angles.  Some of the stories were better than others, of course, but I particularly liked &quot;Payback Time&quot; by Gary Krist, which takes as its theme the way men develop powerful crushes on enigmatic women they encounter on-line but of whom they know nothing; &quot;Minesweeper&quot; by David Liss, which is about a serial internet liar and how he justifies his awful behavior to himself; &quot;The Face in the Glass&quot; by Paul Hond, which is basically just effective and creepy; and &quot;Prisoners of the Heart&quot; which is, perhaps, not particularly realistic, but a whole lot of fun.	2001-04-14
US	49920083	R5OCALB3VNZHJ	0786889489	357238997	FLASHPOINT (Carlotta Carlyle Mysteries)	Books	2	0	5	N	N	Really, really bad	This is my first time dipping into Barnes's Carlotta Carlyle series, and I can't say I was in any way impressed.  This novel is both underwritten and clumsy, full of cliches, poorly drawn characters, false tension, silly narrative developments, and ultimately a revelation that makes absolutely no sense.  I don't believe in putting spoilers in these reviews, so I won't describe the utterly absurd revelations that come at the end of this novel, but suffice to say that to call it half-baked would be to insult all the half-baked books out there.  I am glad Barnes's many fans find enjoyment in her works, and I hope they can continue to do so, but for a reader who is looking for something other than a lifeless installment in a feisty female detective series, do yourself a favor and look elsewhere.	2001-04-13
US	49920083	R1XCYMGKFKBZYN	0374102058	97032133	Afterburn: A Novel	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Not his best work	I've read two of Harrison's previous novels, and I consider him to be probably the most gifted writer currently churning out thrillers.  His stories are far from cookie-cutter, and his novels tend more toward thoughtful meditations of moral issues than by-the-numbers romps that proceed and conclude predictably.  &quot;Afterburn&quot; is no exception, and yet I could not help but find it the most disappointing of the Harrison outings I've read.  It is not the graphic sex, which seems to be part of the package for Harrison, and always seems to serve some more compacted function than the titillation of the reader.  Nor is it the graphic violence, a new addition to Harrison's arsenal, which, again, seemed as much meditative as it did gratuitous.  The problem for me was that the many narratives did not mesh as well as I wanted them too, his characters at time devolved into the cartoonish, which I have never seen happen in his writing before, and in the end I just stopped caring what would come next - again, something new.  <br />Harrison is an absolutely gifted writer, and the book is worth reading if for no reason than to enjoy his sparkling prose, but &quot;Afterburn&quot; lacks the precise control that made his previous works such stand-outs.  If you are considering reading this novel, I strongly urge you to first find a used copy of the (sadly) out of print &quot;Bodies Electric,&quot; which will provide a much better of example of what is worth celebrating about this man's writing.	2001-04-12
US	49920083	R3O8BFA2G40S8Q	0345422511	247982925	Apaches: A Novel of Suspense	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Sad &amp; Laughable	&quot;Apaches&quot; seemed like a fun basis for a novel, but the execution here just doesn't live up to the promise.  Six supercops, all of whom have had to retire due to job-related injuries, form a secret crime-fighting unit in which they aim to take down a hyperbolically sinister (and beautiful!) drug lord (drug lady?)during the early days of the crack epidemic.  No cliche is too obvious for Carcaterra as these psychically and physically-scarred cops come back to life now that they can do the thing they were born to do - bring down bad guys.  It is hard to take a book like this seriously, and perhaps it would have worked if Carcaterra hadn't taken it seriously himself, but are we supposed to believe these two-dimensional cartoonish characters?  And what about the villains, who murder babies to use their hollowed-out bodies as drug mules?  Didn't anyone think that life-like dolls would probably be more convincing than actual dead babies?  <br />I also found it troubling how Carcaterra needed to have token members of major police minority groups: an African-American, a Latino, and a woman.  I'm all for inclusiveness, but here it felt so tokenish as to border on being offensive.  Why only one of each minority?  The answer, sadly, is that the reader would not have been able to keep two black or two Latino characters separate since, for Carcaterra, these people are no more than the sum of their ethnicity.  I also found it fascinating that the only woman cop has the nickname &quot;Mrs. Columbo,&quot; named after the character from the TV show.  In other words, Carcaterra can only imagine a woman as a cop so long as she is emulating a man.  Sad, narrow-minded stuff.	2001-04-10
US	49920083	R2JBZYO31JYMKW	0312130295	559236891	Blackburn: A Novel	Books	5	1	1	N	N	The Anti-Hannibal	Bradley Denton's &quot;Blackburn&quot; is an astonishingly original novel and a complete departure from the over-formulated serial killer genre.  The novel is written in a curious style, shifting between scenes in which Jimmy Blackburn kills his victims - all liar, cheaters, and other blights upon society - and scenes from his life, beginning with his childhood.  Blackburn grows up with an abusive father and a negligent mother, but Denton is not interested in using this difficult child as a pop-psychology explanation for Blackburn's strangely moral homicidal tendencies.  If anything, he wants to sever any kind of cause and effect relationship in this novel that has much more interesting things on its plate than causality.  Blackburn is an enigma, and his terrible childhood is part of that enigma, as are his many murders.<br />At times this is a very funny novel, and Blackburn has to be among the most likable murderers in literature.  His moral system is skewed but enticing, and Denton does a wonderful job of keeping his protagonist both likable and utterly alien.  The only flaw in this great book is that Denton sometimes lets his tone get away from him.  Some of the scenes become silly rather than sardonic, and the weave of the book runs a bit thin at those moments.  But they are few and far between, and for the most part this book a wildly successful in ways that multi-million dollar serial killer pot-boilers can never hope to emulate.	2001-04-10
US	49920083	R2S5YZ9N9R0NDC	0805067183	260690598	Vermeer: A View of Delft	Books	5	39	40	N	N	A Dutch Treat	Anthony Baily's biography of the elusive Vermeer is really a study of the Netherlands, or more specifically, the town of Delft, in the mid-seventeenth-century.  I suppose there is no other way to write a biography of a man of whom so little is known, and Baily's efforts are resoundingly successful.  His descriptions of city scenes, cultural events, churches, houses, markets, etc., are rendered with astonishing skill and verve.  His thumbnail history sketches are always lively and never seem rushed.  There are surely more detailed studies of Vermeer's work, but Baily is far more interested in placing the artist in his context than he is in producing the definitive read of the master's painting.  And while readers interested in all of Dutch culture in the Golden Age might find Simon Schama's &quot;Embarrassment of Riches&quot; a more detailed and global work, I think Baily is by far the superior writer, and the reader comes away with a full and stimulating picture of Vermeer's world.	2001-04-07
US	49920083	R3DNRXWQEHG707	0375505016	195458576	Hollowpoint: A Novel	Books	5	6	7	N	N	A truly first-rate thriller	In &quot;Hollowpoint&quot; author Rob Reuland has put together one of the best thrillers I've read in recent memory.  Part of his secret is his depiction of his anti-hero, Andrew &quot;Gio&quot; Giobberti, a thoroughly un-likable, and yet kind of likable, assistant DA in Brooklyn.  Gio has been on a downward slide since an act of negligence led to the accidental death of his daughter.  But now he feels the opportunity for some renewal when he begins prosecution in the case of Kayla Harris, a 14-year-old girl killed in one of Brooklyn's tougher neighborhoods.<br />All of that sounds pretty standard, but what sets Reuland's novel apart is his gritty and wonderful depictions of Brooklyn neighborhoods and characters, Gio's loathsome and pitiable personal life, and the generally haggard life in one of the nations most grueling DA offices.  Fans of cookie-cutter thrillers who like to devour their novels in the span of a two-hour plane trip might want to pass this one by - it has too much good writing, too many intriguing characters, and too many plot developments not visible from a hundred miles away.  However, &quot;Hollowpoint&quot; is a truly engaging and well-written novel that is sure to please those readers who wish that most thrillers could be something more than they are.	2001-04-07
US	49920083	R31L6VR4PQUGQ9	1573227331	602052020	About a Boy	Books	5	1	1	N	N	High Paternity	As several reviews have commented, &quot;About A Boy&quot; is not another &quot;High Fidelity,&quot; which is a good thing in my opinion since I don't subscribe to the school of thought that says a writer should reproduce the same book as many times as he can get away with it.  This novel does have much in common with &quot;High Fidelity,&quot; however, beyond Hornby's hilarious command of voice and his brilliance at constructing scenes that are both awkward for the characters and riveting for the reader.  His new main character, Will Lightman, suffers from an unusual problem: living off royalties from his father's Christmas song, he has nothing to do with his time but enjoy himself.  Now in his mid-thirties, he is concerned that he has not slept with enough women or listened to enough cool music.  He stumbled upon the absurd but wonderful idea of passing himself off as a single father to single mothers so that he can win their sympathies and gain access to their panties.  This scheme intersects with an unfortunate boy named Marcus, who is such a loser at his new school that even the other losers won't have anything to do with him.  He gets enlisted by Will to pass himself off as his son, and much misadventure ensues.  <br />&quot;About A Boy&quot; is partly a coming-of-age story and partly a never-growing-up story, and the two tales intertwine wonderfully.  I couldn't quite sign on with Hornby's desire to make the death of Kurt Cobain as a major cultural landmark, on the order of the Kennedy assassination perhaps; nor did I ever buy for a second that hapless Marcus would find himself befriended by the coolest and most belligerent Nirvana fan at their school, but those are a few minor points.  No one slings out more entertaining prose than Nick Hornby.  I just wish the guy would write more books.	2001-04-06
US	49920083	RC9KD939HM618	0385720602	112977093	Colors of the Mountain	Books	3	1	9	N	N	Not quite enough color	I wanted very much to like this book, but sadly it defied by best efforts.  I have a predisposition to find accounts of Communist China of interest, and so I thought I would love this memoir, which came highly recommended.  Sadly there is just not all that much to like.  It seems cruel to pick at the language, since Chen is not a native English speaker, and all in all his command of the tongue is admirable.  Alas, it is not deft enough to hold the reader's attention, and often his wordings are clunky and awkward enough to be distracting.<br />I could have lived with a clumsy phrase every page or two, however, if the narrative had been there.  Chen's memoir of his family, oppressed by the Communist party because his grandfather had been a landlord, lacks any real vividness.  The colors of the mountain were not particularly bright for me as Chen describes his relatives, boyhood friends and school-day memories in such vague and distant terms so that the reader feels he is experiencing these memories under water.  The people are interchangeable, the situations without any real emotional impact for the reader.  <br />I applaud Chen for his efforts in overcoming the horrors of the Mao years, and for his admirable determination to write his memoirs.  I only wish he had polished his work a bit more before giving it to the world.	2001-04-05
US	49920083	R37GUXMDJRW6QA	0375753400	789036242	Tim McCarver's Baseball for Brain Surgeons and Other Fans: Understanding and Interpreting the Game So You Can Watch It Like a Pro	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Sadly, the title is all too accurate	I grew up listening to Tim McCarver, and have always liked him - that is, until recently, when he has become increasingly insufferable.  This book, sadly, seems to continue the trend that has marred his sportscasting in the last few years.  It does indeed contain a wealth of information about the game, and no one can deny that McCarver certainly knows his stuff, but the material is just not presented in a particularly useful way.  McCarver seems more interested in showing off than in showing the reader, and while I did learn some things from reading this book, I often found it difficult to follow what he was talking about, and I frequently had to force myself to pay attention to keep from drifting off.  Not something I want in my baseball books.<br />All of this is a big disappointment since a book about baseball for baseball fans is a mighty fine idea, and I don't know that there are a lot of guys out there as knowledgeable as McCarver.  But I've watched baseball my entire life, and if I couldn't follow what he was talking about, I don't know who could.	2001-04-04
US	49920083	RHQDNUI9Q88RG	0786707763	348392434	Robbers	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A Surprising Book, in Many Ways	&quot;Robbers&quot; is an usual first black-comic novel with pretensions toward - well, I don't know what exactly, yet, inexplicably, seems to accomplish all it sets out to do.  This book is both disturbing and funny; it is the tale of Eddy and Ray Bob, two bandits who traverse Texas robbing and killing, exchanging ignorant views upon the world, and generally behaving in reprehensible, if strangely entertaining, ways.  They are joined about a quarter of the way through by Della, an equally ignorant though far less cold blooded (though certainly callous in her own way) hairdresser who hooks up with Eddy.  Meanwhile, the robbers are being tracked by Rule, a slightly less ignorant though far less cold-blooded (though certainly callus in his own way) Texas Ranger, who wants to bring the robbers to justice.<br />All of these characters confront their own dark pasts and hidden secrets, and they do so in ways that are often hilarious and creepy.  There sheer callousness to death that the characters demonstrate is in some ways addictive, and it becomes surprisingly easy to sympathize with these psychos, at least Eddy, who seems less malevolent than his buddy, even though he has committed the crime that begins their running from the law.<br />At times these overwhelming ignorance of these characters becomes a bit too much; it ceases to be funny and seems a little more like a tired gag.  I was reminded of the absurdly clueless southerners of Harry Crews's writing, but Crews plants his characters in a kind of rural circus far removed from reality, whereas Cook seems to want to keep elements of gritty realism.<br />The other element worth pointing out is Cook's surprising style.  He writes the novel in fragmentary sentences and forgoes the cumbersome burden of quotation marks, a la Cormac McCarthy, but not with the same discipline as McCarthy:   Reviewer thinking.  Not as effective as McCarthy.  Remembering.  Put to better effect.  Saying, Still interesting anyhow.  <br />If you think you can't put up with an entire novel in that format, you may be surprised.  I have a low threshold for literary pretensions that aren't rooted in some genuine intellectual project, but I found myself increasingly less irritated by Cook's style, and more and more captivated by his surprisingly effective use of this clunky device.  I found the novel compulsively readable, not because I needed to know what happened next - frankly, I almost never cared what happened next - but because each scene was drawn with engaging clarity and interest.  In other words, this is a book whose whole is far greater than its constituent parts, and ultimately, it is a fine whole indeed.	2001-04-03
US	49920083	R3BN8GTC61O2JN	0312261845	10488731	Joe College	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Having this much fun should get you expelled	&quot;Joe College&quot; is my first pass at Tom Perrotta's writing, and I can guarantee that I'll be going back and reading his earlier works.  This account of Danny, a working class college student at Yale in the early eighties is both poignant and funny.  Perrotta is a brilliant wordsmith, and absorbing character descriptions, situation and anecdotes fly off the page in sequences that are often laugh-out-loud funny.  But for all the humor, his tale of Danny's efforts to integrate these two disparate parts of his life - the scholarly world of privilege at Yale, and helping his father out with the lunch truck in suburban New Jersey - is often extremely affecting.  Danny's half-hearted romance with home-town-girl Cindy is especially moving, and if Danny does not always conduct himself admirably, he does behave in ways that seem utterly understandable.<br />My only reservation about &quot;Joe College,&quot; and this seems pretty minor in light of its many successes, is that while the novel is big on plot, it is a little slight on narrative.  We get lots of scenes of Joe with his college friends, at work in the dining hall, working in his dad's lunch truck, working at the dining hall at school.  We see his pathetic romance with Cindy and his more hopeful one with Polly.  Oh, yeah - then there is the whole Mafia subplot, which didn't quite work for me.  All these different threads come fast and furious, but they never really build toward anything definitive, and the novel doesn't conclude so much as it just sort of ends.  Lots of contemporary comic novels suffer because the writer is so busy creating characters and wacky situation that he forgets to emphasize plot as strongly as he might.  But &quot;Joe College&quot; is so good that this complaint is more than an afterthought (and not enough to make me dock the book a star).  I loved reading every page of it.	2001-03-31
US	49920083	R33ZAKBSL0P1PF	0316925810	55821494	Diamond Dogs: A Novel	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Great little nugget of a book	A fine book buried behind a lousy cover and poor marketing, &quot;Diamond Dogs&quot; is a real treat that I might easily have over-looked had a friend not mentioned it to me.  It is the engaging narrative of Neil, a high school football star from a troubled family who, after a night of drinking and recreational cruelty, accidentally kills a classmate.  His father, the local police chief of their Nevada town (just outside of Las Vegas) disposes of the body without even talking to Neil, and thus begins three days of tension and mayhem.<br />Some of the elements of &quot;Diamond Dogs&quot; are a bit over-cooked.  I found the father's obsession with Neil Diamond more gimmicky than believable, which is too bad because the rest of the father/son relationship is drawn brilliantly.  I found Neil's problems with his father, his yearning for his long-departed mother, and his relationships with his friends and girlfriends both believable and moving.  Neil is not a particularly likable character, but what makes this novel so compelling is that Alan Watt had built him around an utterly irresistible narrative voice.  I was hooked from the first page, and I just kept on reading.<br />I don't know if it is true, but I have heard a rumor that Watt wrote this novel in six weeks.  If that is the case, I tip my hate to him and bow in awe.  Even if it is not the case, I am very impressed and I look forward to more good things from this talented young author.	2001-03-30
US	49920083	RWXKO95KR2SLD	0140288503	189891237	Black Hawk Down: A Story of Modern War	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A Compelling &amp; Disturbing Read	Mark Bowden's tale of the United State's involvement in Somalia, in particular the long firefight in Mogadishu that caused the US so much embarrassment, is a truly gripping account of contemporary warfare.  Bowden gets inside the soldiers' heads, explains the mindset of the commanding officers, and shows in excruciating detail just how things fell apart.  At times it reads like hilarious black comedy, at other times it is painfully tragic.  &quot;Black Hawk Down&quot; demonstrates just how difficult it was for the US military to carry out its ambiguous and ultimately impossible mission.<br />My only complaint about the book is that Bowden's technique, giving a minute-by-minute description of the battle, gets a bit overwhelming after a while.  You may read a hundred pages in which we follow the actions of a dozen or more different soldiers, and all of an hour has passed in the battle.  Many of the individual stories are riveting and kept me turning the pages furiously, but too many were interchangeable and by the time I was two thirds of the way through, I felt as though I'd already read a lot of what was going on.  <br />Ultimately this is a minor complain, and readers who find too much detail tedious can skim a little and still come away from this book feeling the profound sadness of this colossal military misstep.	2001-03-29
US	49920083	R2F77VPB8ZSQC0	0140288503	189891237	Black Hawk Down: A Story of Modern War	Books	4	13	16	N	N	A Compelling &amp; Disturbing Read	Mark Bowden's tale of the United State's involvement in Somalia, in particular the long firefight in Mogadishu that caused the US so much embarrassment, is a truly gripping account of contemporary warfare.  Bowden gets inside the soldiers' heads, explains the mindset of the commanding officers, and shows in excruciating detail just how things fell apart.  At times it reads like hilarious black comedy, at other times it is painfully tragic.  &quot;Black Hawk Down&quot; demonstrates just how difficult it was for the US military to carry out its ambiguous and ultimately impossible mission.<br />My only complaint about the book is that Bowden's technique, giving a minute-by-minute description of the battle, gets a bit overwhelming after a while.  You may read a hundred pages in which we follow the actions of a dozen or more different soldiers, and all of an hour has passed in the battle.  Many of the individual stories are riveting and kept me turning the pages furiously, but too many were interchangeable and by the time I was two thirds of the way through, I felt as though I'd already read a lot of what was going on.  <br />Ultimately this is a minor complain, and readers who find too much detail tedious can skim a little and still come away from this book feeling the profound sadness of this colossal military misstep.	2001-03-29
US	49920083	R1MDK66Q0I0TWD	0385720106	305678170	A Map of the World: A Novel (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	4	6	8	N	N	A great writer, but a great book?	Evaluating &quot;A Map of the World&quot; is a little bit tricky for me because while I did not particularly enjoy the novel, I cannot say that there is anything wrong with it.  In fact, there is quite a bit right with it.  Hamilton's prose is frequently dead-on, and her descriptions of the memories and emotional experiences of her main characters is often insightful, funny, and fully engaging.  On top of that she has a great plot.  Our main character, Alice, suffers from one disaster after another: first the 2-year-old daughter of her best friend drowns in Alice's back yard, and next she is arrested on hyperbolic charges of sexually abusing the students at the elementary school where she works as a nurse.  <br />So what's my problem?  I think Hamilton simply gives us too much of a good thing.  There were too many reflections and flashbacks and emotional observations for my taste.  And I am willing to believe that my problems are a matter of taste.  I've read Amazon reviews for books where the reader will complain that the writer drones on and on incessantly, yet I might have loved the voice in that novel and not particularly cared if the writing seemed long winded.  It wasn't the case here, however.  <br />I do think that Hamilton's characterizations are superb, though her dialogue is sometimes stilted and distracting.  Nevertheless, I would certainly take another pass at a novel by her.	2001-03-28
US	49920083	R7W46ZAGLC7KW	0679724699	534383312	The History of Sexuality, Vol. 1: An Introduction	Books	5	25	32	N	N	You will never see the world or yourself the same way again	There is no doubt in my mind that Foucault is one of the most important thinkers of the 20th century and without a doubt among the most influential.  His philosophical inquiry into material history of systems and their construction/perpetuation has revolutionized the way in which we see the world around us and has led to fruitful and fascinating inquiries in the field of cultural studies.<br />No volume articulates Foucault's ideas with greater clarity than this first volume of his history of sexuality.  More a manifesto than a true history, Foucault outlines with astonishing deftness the ways in which our perceptions are molded by systems of knowledge and power.  These systems, which he describes as &quot;intentional but non-subjective&quot; (in other words, having a purpose and goal, but not directed by any guiding intelligence) are like natural forces that shape and mold our understanding of the world while they perpetuate themselves.  His analysis of the formulation of ideas of sexuality in the 18th and 19th centuries illustrates his argument both forcefully and clearly.  Readers may, by the way, want to compare Foucault's ideas with Louis Althusser's in his essay on the Industrial State Apparatus in his collection &quot;Lenin and Philosophy,&quot; which provides a similarly materialists, but more politically Marxist, view of how subjectivity is constructed and limited by existing modes of power.	2001-03-26
US	49920083	R3QLB4CWHNSZPN	060980765X	948877682	Tulipomania : The Story of the World's Most Coveted Flower & the Extraordinary Passions It Aroused	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Burst Your Bubble	This slim volume is a remarkably entertaining cultural history of the tulip, focusing its particular attention on the Tulip Bubble of the Netherlands in the 1630s.  Dash, however, back up and provides a very readable history of the flower and how it first made its way west to Europe, why it took root, so to speak, in the United Provinces, and how the sale of this flower evolved from the passion of a few dedicated botanists to a financial mania that swept the entire nation.  Dash has done his research remarkably well (and I very much like the way he organizes his notes thematically), and he conveys his research in a way that is both erudite and charming.  I heartily recommend for fans of popular history, financial history and gardening buffs.	2001-03-26
US	49920083	R2R66ASS6N0BVT	0517584921	515786853	Manhattan Nocturne	Books	4	19	20	N	N	Great Thriller, Warts and All	Colin Harrison is an enigma.  He writes some of the best thrillers out there, but he has a real tendency to frustrate me as a reader even while I'm marveling over the brilliance of his work.  Harrison is an absolutely spectacular writer, and his gifts are especially well suited to his particular niche: the thriller in which the ordinary man finds himself in dangerous and threatening situations.  One of the things I like about Harrison's thrillers (with the exception of his most recent and most disappointing book, &quot;Afterburn,&quot;) is that his heroes tend to find themselves dragged down into desperate struggles because of their own human frailty than because of some madman terrorist bent on revenge or a serial killer in the process of &quot;becoming.&quot;<br />In &quot;Manhattan Nocturne,&quot; the protagonist, struggling under the prodigious name Porter Wren, is a newspaper columnist who falls for a seductive beauty, who wants his help in recovering a lost videotape made by her dead film director husband.  Meanwhile, a powerful media magnate wants the same tape, and threatens to expose Wren if he doesn't find the tape for his (the magnate's) purposes.  The plot leans a bit toward the needlessly rococo at times, and I felt the ending piled it on a bit too thick, but it still gripping, page-turning, and utterly pleasurable to read.  <br />This is a novel with tension, drama, interesting and three-dimensional characters, and genuine energy.  But like Harrison's inexplicably out-of-print masterpiece &quot;Bodies Electric&quot; (very possibly the best thriller I've ever read), &quot;Manhattan Nocturne&quot; gets bogged down a bit under the weight of the author's detailed sexual ruminations.  I am not a prude, but I find myself thinking &quot;enough already&quot; pretty quickly.  However, I will say in defense of these protracted sex scenes that they are relevant to the plot and to the nature of his protagonist(s).  Harrison seems genuinely interested in how identity is linked to sexuality, a worthwhile subject, and because his protagonists tend to fall down their slippery slopes owning to their sexual desire short-circuiting their common sense, the pornographic  fantasias always come across as guiltily relevant.  Do we need to know the details of every position Harrison's mind can conjure?  Probably not.  From an over-heard bit of conversation in one of the first scenes, we get the sense that this is a novel fueled by the fear of impotence (indeed, the protagonist confesses, at one point, that a familial history of prostate problems leaves him feeling that his sexual days are always numbered), so we must remember at all times that this is a pre-Viagra thriller.<br />One of the other reviewers complains that Harrison goes on and on about things that have nothing to do with the plot, but Harrison's writing is strong enough that I'd read a novel he wrote about taking out the garbage.  His dissertations on moral issues, poverty, New York culture, sexuality, etc. are all at the heart of what makes Harrison a superior writer.  &quot;Manhattan Nocturne&quot; is not a flawless novel, but it is without doubt a superior novel and a must-read for anyone who expects more from their thrillers than the paper-thin characters, the by-the-numbers plotting and the clunky writing that we find scattered all over the best-seller lists.	2001-03-23
US	49920083	R2O0KJAATA7O6G	0345440188	452858431	The Ice Harvest	Books	4	2	3	N	N	How Low Can You Go?	&quot;The Ice Harvest&quot; is a slim little novel that knows precisely what it wants to do and does a fine job of doing it.  The narrative takes place over the course of a long Christmas Eve (and the first part of Christmas Day) in Wichita in 1979, and during that time the main character, Charlie Arglist, prepares to leave town forever and to take with him a huge bundle of money he has helped to swindle.  Before he goes, Charlie has a bunch of errands to run and some loose ends to tie up.  In the twisted moral universe of this novel, Charlie, despite his bad deeds and near complete neglect of his children, is kind of a stand-up citizen, only blackmailing, for example, for the cause of good.  His world is a gauntlet of cheap bars, strip joints, massage parlors, and it is inhabited by only the most base, corrupt and clueless specimens of the human race.  <br />This novel, in other words, is steeped in the noir tradition, and it both takes from that tradition and adds to it in interesting ways.  It is frequently disturbing, but often quite funny.  I found most the characters implausible (maybe I am naïve, but I just found it hard to believe that so many immoral people could lead seemingly ordinary lives), but they were believable in the context of the story, so that isn't too much of a problem.  In fact, I found their amorality entertaining.  <br />My only real problem with this book has to do with its narrative structure.  The idea of the story taking place over the course of a single night is fine, but it needed more flashbacks or other sorts of distractions.  Even though the book was very, very short (perfect for an airplane ride, for example) it started to drag for me after a while because of its sameness, with Charlie shuttling back and forth across town, visiting the same spots over and over again, often, it seems, just to have something to do.  Charlie goes to point A to see some shady character.  Speaks to him and then goes to point B where he does the same.He drinks/deals with a stripper/observes someone far worse than himself break the law and then goes to point C, or perhaps back to point A or B.  And so on.  Things pick up near the end as the double crosses and plot twists come fast and furiously, but I would have liked a little more variety before getting there.  On the other hand, the beauty of a novel printed on just over 200 large-type pages is that you are willing to give it lots and lots of latitude since the end is always in sight.	2001-03-21
US	49920083	R2ESUW6QPYXW5	0345439147	124729349	Swimming	Books	4	21	23	N	N	Impressive First Time Out	&quot;Swimming&quot; is without a doubt an impressive debut from a talented writer.  It is not an entirely successful debut, but it interesting even in its flaws, and that is more than I can say for most novels I read.  The tale is kind of an emotional whodunit, or perhaps a whydonit.  The first part of the story takes place in 1987 when college student Aaron Silver brings his girlfriend Sunanne to meet his family in rural New Hampshire.  The family is a bit odd, and there are unexplained and perhaps inexplicable tensions between Aaron and his wild brother, Jack, and soon sparks begin to fly between Jack and Suzanne.  Much emotional mayhem ensues until the visit climaxes in a tragedy that the book cover describes but I will not, since I wished I hadn't known it when I was reading.  The novel then picks up ten years later, focusing on Lila, the younger sister, who is obsessed with the events of that night and begins stalking Suzanne in an effort to learn the truth about her brothers.  <br />Hershon's writing is at its most successful when she is conveying the very real emotional confusion people feel at what seem like key moments in their life.  &quot;Swimming&quot; seems to me especially effective at demonstrating the intense importance of these private feelings and the sometimes horrific consequences of privileging irrational passion over logical responsibility.  In the heat of the moment, the author wants to argue, the selfish and thoughtless decisions we make, radiate outward into our lives and the lives of others.  The book is also wonderful when it examines the confluence of memory and sadness, demonstrating how we process our own bad decisions, what we chose to remember, forget and to fabricate.<br />On the other hand, &quot;Swimming,&quot; splashes around in the pond a bit too loudly and clumsily at times.  The opening prologue is both unnecessary and so badly written I cannot even believe the same person composed those few pages and the book that follows.  In the main body of &quot;Swimming,&quot; the writing is never bad or clunky, but it is sometimes burdened by too much attention to craft.  The flap copy tells us that Hershon received her MFA from Columbia University, and this book reads to me like MFA fiction.  Obviously some people like that sort of thing, but I find her endless and belabored details of clothes, rooms, smells, plants, and anything else on which she happens to draw a bead ultimately kind of tedious and rarely in service of the story she wants to tell.  If anything, the resonance of her tale and her characters gets lots sometimes in her descriptions.  This book could have been a bit slimmer, and if Hershon had reserved her truly impressive talents for elements of the story with emotional consequences, it would have been a sleeker and far more poignant volume.  As it is, it reveals an unquestionably talented author whose next work I would most certainly seek out.	2001-03-19
US	49920083	R1K9FDMV08KFNE	0140296409	929204920	Disgrace: A Novel	Books	4	6	7	N	N	A Fractured Novel from a Fractured Culture	Coetzee's &quot;Disgrace&quot; is in many ways a fascinating novel that puts its finger on the pulse of a fractured country that is at once convulsing and healing, and the book does an absolutely riveting job of conveying the difficult realities of post-apartheid South Africa.  The protagonist, David Lurie, is a literature professor whose profession has been altered to his grave dissatisfaction by the grim realities of a country that finds itself in sudden need of teaching much of its populace important job skills.  Cast out of the intellectually fulfilling world of the humanities, Lurie has become a professor of communications instead, and he is at sea, both professionally and sexually.  After an unwise liaison with a student, he allows himself to be fired from his professorial job.  In search of a life both more simple and satisfying, he moves in with his estranged daughter who runs a farm and dog-boarding service in rural South Africa.  I won't give away too many of the details, but what happens next is both terrifying and fascinating.  Their peace is shattered by a terrible crime, but the implications of this crime subtly branch out into global politics and world history.  Nothing heavy handed here: Coetzee's ability to link private pain to political complication is admirable, engaging and utterly moving.<br />On the other hand, &quot;Disgrace&quot; seems to run out of steam about halfway through.  At just over 200 pages, the book felt to me artificially inflated, and that is something of a problem.  The early sequences, with Lurie's involvement with a Muslim prostitute and his academic escapades were eminently readable and compellingly rendered, but many of his later ruminations seem to drag.  Nevertheless, I spent a great deal more time ruminating on this novel after I finished.  &quot;Disgrace&quot; brings into uneasy focus the horrible cost of an immoral political regime like apartheid and the horrible pain of a country that wants desperately to recover andto find itself.	2001-03-14
US	49920083	R1QGM1V2CG2N9H	0440236673	376574359	The Brethren	Books	2	4	5	N	N	Oh, brother	I read &quot;The Firm&quot; when it was first published, and immediately wondered why the world was making so much of this Grisham guy.  I thought the writing was clunky, the plotting unbelievable and the characters absolutely empty.  So years later I decided to take another pass to see if perhaps his enduring popularity indicated some kind of creative development on Grisham's part.  If &quot;The Brethren&quot; is a representative sample of his work, than the answer is &quot;no way!&quot;  In fact, I would have thought in impossible for a man to write so many novels without even moderately improving his skills.<br />Once again, his writing is clunky and amateurish (featuring such  grammatical whoppers as &quot;If crying would help, then he would've certainly had a good one.&quot;) and his story almost unspeakably silly.  The novel concerns two parallel narratives: the first involving a group of disgraced judges in a federal prison who begin a scam which involves extorting money from wealthy and closeted gay men.  The other narrative is about Aaron Lake, a straight-shooting senator who makes a deal with the CIA to put him on track to become the next President.<br />The judges in prison plot is certainly the less absurd and the more interesting, and that alone might have made an interesting premise for a novel, but the political narrative is utterly devoid of any credibility.  Lake, who appears to be a fairly stand-up guy, doesn't even blink when the CIA wants to orchestrate international conflicts, the sort that result in people dying, in order to promote their agenda.  In other words, these characters are cardboard cut-outs, placed in situations by Grisham, but neither thinking nor feeling the way people think or feel.  I will admit that his writing has a certain narrative energy that kept me reading, by it kept me reading despite, not because of, any pleasure I might be taking in the novel.	2001-03-13
US	49920083	R3PFFVW0LQ7PXE	0446602620	435728437	Blood Work	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A Thrilling Read with Some Flaws	There is no writer I know of who can turn a police procedural as effectively as Michael Connelly, and while &quot;Blood Work&quot; is not the best novel I've read by him, it is still a compelling tale.  It is not, however, the most inventive story he has yet concocted.  This is the first of his books not in the Bosch series that I've read, but it sticks to the Bosch formula so closely that it is easy to forget at times that this is not, in fact, a novel in that series.  Instead of his cantankerous police detective, we have former FBI agent McCaleb who, beginning his recovery from his heart transplant surgery, agrees to look into the murder to the woman whose death provided him with the heart that saved his life.  Just like Bosch, McCaleb a) finds himself squaring off against an obstructive and incompetent detective whose main task in life is to hinder the wheels of justice; b) is aided by a kind-hearted insider who recognizes McCaleb's innate ability to solve crimes that others cannot; c) must face the inevitable moment when he is taken off the case and therefore must opt to go it alone, the consequences be damned.  Connelly, in other words loves his cliches.<br />And despite the cliches, all of his books are not only good, they are great.  I never really liked McCaleb and I never really disliked him.  The characters in the novel are almost beside the point.  Connelly is so skillful at constructing a compelling mystery and leading the reader through the stages of the investigation, that the rest hardly matters.  The reader is too breathless to even notice that the characters are flat.  Connelly doesn't shy away from the false leads and blind allies that hinder real investigations, and the important clues, when they come, are so devastating that it becomes impossible to put the book down.  Information is parsed out in the most skillful and addictive way imaginable.  <br />I won't say too much about the conclusion, but the final 10% or so of the book devolves into a Hollywood-esque sequence that is both silly and unnecessary.  Otherwise, the book is absolute entertainment.	2001-02-26
US	49920083	R3ORDONO074VKY	0679450440	483248967	Protect and Defend	Books	4	7	9	N	N	Entertaining and Thought-Provoking	I've never before read anything by Richard North Patterrson, and I'd always assumed that he pumped out generic and forgettable thrillers.  &quot;Protect and Defend,&quot; however, is a much more interesting novel that I would have anticipated, and it is also a very exciting, page-turner.  Not to say that the book is without its faults; it has those, and quite a few of them too, but even the faults are interesting, and Patterson has done a remarkably effective job of putting together a novel that is as much fun to talk about as it is to read.<br />At the heart of the novel is nomination of a new Supreme Court Chief Justice by a newly-inaugurated Democratic president.  The nominee, Caroline Masters, finds herself in the thick of both a controversial abortion case that may overturn a congressional law designed to prevent minors from aborting fetuses without parental consent.  She also finds herself in the middle of one of those merciless nomination hearings in the Senate in which the nominee has no chance of escaping un-bloodied.  In Master's case, the personal inquiries by the opposition are particularly frightening as she has a secret in her past she is desperate to keep private. <br />Lots of political wheeling and dealing, scheming and skullduggery follows, and it is great fun to watch the behind-the-scenes action.  Moreover, the abortion trial presents in wonderful detail the heart of the controversy about legislating abortion, and the issues presented by both sides are clear, ethically compelling, and provocative.<br />I do have two complaints about the novel, however.  First, Patterson clearly comes down on the side of abortion rights.  He seems to believe that the issue is too ethically fraught to be legislated fairly, and while I happen to agree with that position, I felt that he should have presented the opposing side more fairly than he did.  If I were adamantly against abortion, I think I would have found &quot;Protect and Defend&quot; infuriating.  Yes, there are caring people on the right-to-life side who genuinely believe that life begins with conception and abortion is murder....  Meanwhile, President Kilcannon is a Democrat's fantasy: ... who holds fast to his principals and will do what he believes best for the country regardless of the consequences to himself.  True, this saintly president does have a powerful Republican counterpart of equal moral rectitude, but with all of these halos bumping into each other, I found the verisimilitude of the novel beginning to wane.<br />My other complain, about which I will be a bit more vague out of courtesy to people who have not yet read the novel, is that the ending depends upon some very novel-like rather than life-like events.  Patterson seemed to want to put together a very realistic political novel, and I could not but wish that the resolution of the plot be as authentic as his set up.  Like the film, &quot;The Contender,&quot; the climax of this novel ultimately hinges upon genre-born surprise and excitement.  And while I did tear furiously through the final pages of the novel to see what would happen, in the end, I also felt cheated by the flash and the glitz.<br />These issues mar an otherwise wonderful reading experience, but they in no way detract from the strength with which I would recommend &quot;Protect and Defend.&quot;  If anything, they add to what makes the book so interesting to talk about.  And if all mainstream thrillers were this through-provoking, the world would be far better off.	2001-02-26
US	49920083	R301B86YWYT20L	0312267460	538222637	Headlong: A Novel (Bestselling Backlist)	Books	4	15	16	N	N	Intellectual Property	&quot;Headlong&quot; is a very entertaining sort of novel that revolves around a wonderful plot device: a man finds, in his boorish neighbor's house, a neglected painting be believes may be a lost Bruegel.  The rest of the novel revolves around his plot to confirm the painting's identity and to steal it from the undeserving neighbor.  Frayn does a remarkably good job of showing how protagonist Clay, while neglecting his own philosophical scholarship, engages in his quest to confirm the painting's authenticity, and the history and art history are mixed in fast and furiously.  The novel becomes one of those intellectual mysteries in which the clues are scholarly details, and this material is handled remarkably well, and I learned a great deal about Dutch political and aesthetic history.  This aspect of the story, however, is hung on a less effectively executed plot to free the painting from its undeserving owner.  If the book drags at times it is not because it gets bogged down in history, it is because it doesn't bog itself down sufficiently in the present.  I would have liked to have seen the characters fleshed out a bit more, motives made clearer, and the emotional investments of the characters made more real.  Ultimately, however, &quot;Headlong&quot; is an effective and engaging read.	2001-02-21
US	49920083	R2ULXBGHOVI3IS	0451202341	334925003	Back Roads	Books	2	9	11	N	N	False and Forced	I realized recently that I automatically assume that when Oprah picks a book for his reading group that there is a pretty good chance that it is going to be a bad novel.  In all honesty, however, I had never read any of the books she had plucked out of obscurity, so I decided to challenge my own expectations and read one of her selections.  I chose something that I considered to be primary Oprah: that is, something that was brought to the public's attention specifically because of her book group.  Writers like Toni Morrison and Joyce Carol Oates seem to me to be secondary Oprah: they have existences outside of the reading group.<br />If &quot;Back Roads&quot; is a typical example of Oprah's tastes, then my bias has proven itself more than just.  What a bad book.  This is the tale of a poor young man in rural Pennsylvania who is forced to take charge of his three younger sisters after his mother is sent to jail for murdering her father.  We start out firmly ensconced in the neo-rural grotesque, but this novel ultimately degenerates into a twisted morass of dark family secrets so gothic it would make Ann Radcliffe blush.  Now, the subject matter in itself could be fine, but the fact is that O'Dell is not nearly deft enough a writer to handle her material.  Her wise but ignorant first person narrative lacks even the most remote shred of credibility.  Harley's bouts with madness are forced and utterly unbelievable, and since the novel's conclusion hinges on them, they cause the entire structure to collapse.<br />The bottom line is that O'Dell has a tin ear for language.  Her dialogue is stiff, and her use of ALL CAPITAL LETTERS for EMPHASIS comes across as nothing but AMATEURISH.  On top of that, the all-to-often used device of the sickly sweet misspellings of the protagonists baby sister made me feel like I needed a shower.  Perhaps most distressing, however, were the sudden revelations that force the climax, where characters just remember (gasp!) the family secrets that have haunted them and that they have repressed.  Goodness me!<br />Although this book represents but one fairly random sample, it seems to me indicative of the bad reading habits encouraged by Oprah and her reading group.  Why does this novel have value for her ilk?  Probably because it deals with &quot;real&quot; issues like abuse and incest, and it is &quot;truthful&quot; in its depiction of human suffering.  Sure, incest, abuse and familial trauma are worth writing and reading about, but the ability of a reader to see his or her suffering in the pages does not make a novel great.  It may make it satisfying, but it hardly is the mark of good fiction.  If anything, good fiction is about make what is foreign and unknown seem familiar.  Sadly, the most familiar thing about &quot;Back Roads&quot; is its substandard writing, its cartoonish characters and its unsatisfying revelations.	2001-02-17
US	49920083	R19WZ1BA1RUJ2S	0743410513	605962018	The Unburied	Books	5	8	9	N	N	It is not what you think.  It is far more interesting.	Charles Palliser's most recent novel, &quot;The Unburied,&quot; is utterly fascinating for so many reasons, I'm not sure I'm going to be able to clearly articulate all of them. It is best, perhaps, to be clear about what this novel is not: it is not a Dickensian family drama on the order of his masterpiece, &quot;The Quincunx.&quot;  It is not a ghost story, Henry James-esque or otherwise.  It is not a gothic adventure, a creepy page, turner, or just about anything else you might think.  It is, in fact, one of the most clever and enjoyable works of post-modern deception that I have ever read.<br />The novel is packaged as a Victorian ghost story, and I can't quite tell if that is part of the deceptive plan or if the publisher is merely looking to find a wider audience for this clever little gem.  Indeed, the novel begins as though it is going to be a ghost story, and it also wanders recklessly into the murder mystery genre, but it is something beyond either of those kinds of tales.  At its heart, Palliser is interested in writing about personal ghosts, and the kinds of narratives we tell our selves to keep from confronting those ghosts - and the kinds of narratives we seek out as a distraction.  The protagonist in &quot;The Unburied,&quot; is a scholar named Courtine who comes to a small cathedral down in England during the late 19th century to uncover a mystery that relates to his studies of the 9th century king, Alfred.  Along the way he gets caught up in a murder mystery from the 17th century, and then a mysterious murder perpetrated during his visit.  How do all of these things tie together?  They don't.  They are not suppose to.  As he attempts to uncover these mysteries of the past and the present, Courtine must come face to face with the mysteries of his own past, and rather than discovering the motives of medieval historians or puritan plotters, he realizes he would be better off confronting his own motives.<br />Unfortunately, this is a puzzle whose pictureis only clear once you have completed it.  Readers who curl up with their Earl Grey and scones to lose themselves in Victorian delights will soon find themselves befuddled by the details in which Courtine delights.  Frankly, I hit a point at about page 150 where I almost threw the book away.  I didn't care anymore about the 17th century murder, and we read so many different accounts, involving so many different characters, that the whole thing becomes a big muddle.  But I forced myself over that page 150 hump, and it was well worth it.  Reader, I finished it, and in the end it was well worth the efforts.	2001-02-15
US	49920083	R1YHTQGLWGNQ7P	0684850796	782338564	Inspired Sleep: A Novel	Books	5	12	12	N	N	A Funny and Thoughtful Novel	Robert Cohen is a brilliant stylist who whose words are a delight to read, and the premise of this novel proves fertile ground for Cohen's apt powers of observation and deft humor.  &quot;Inspired Sleep's&quot; two main characters are Bonnie Saks, a struggling grad student and mother suffering from insomnia; and Ian Ogelive, an ambitious but emotionally confused young researcher working in a sleeping lab.  Put them together, and the big ideas begin to fly: academia, the role of anti-depressants in contemporary culture, the nature of marriage, the nature of parenthood, etc.  Cohen is especially skillful at piling on the clever observations in witty dialogue that, while never quite believable, never seems exactly unbelievable either.  In fact, the quirky nature of these characters seems absolutely apt, for Cohen is interested in putting his finger on the bizarre nature of contemporary society: how we look for meaning in things like prescription drugs and chat rooms.  And what he comes up with is a great deal of fun to read.  <br />I very much enjoyed Cohen's previous novel, &quot;The Here and Now,&quot; though I thought it ultimately suffered from the same problem as a lot of contemporary novels of ideas: it did not know how to end, and the resolution seemed forced and overly intellectualized.  &quot;Inspired Sleep&quot; has a much more natural and organic plot structure, which worked nicely in its favor.  Like Cohen's previous novel, this one deals with not entirely likable characters who are on a quest to, if not make themselves more likable, at least remove some the difficulties in their lives that render them so unpleasant.  In the case of &quot;Inspired Sleep,&quot; I feel that Cohen goes a little bit overboard at times with Bonnie.  Ian may be a bit of a bumbler in matters of the heart, but his difficulties are ones I think most people can identify with, and his mistakes seem very human.  Bonnie, on the other hand, frequently comes across as noting short of a jerk.  She is perpetually rude to other people, and she is not charming enough to pull it off.  Not that characters need to be likable to be interesting, but I was never entirely certain what Cohen wanted us to make of Bonnie.  There is a moment early on in the novel which I loved: Bonnie thinks something rude, and then faces some evidence that suggests she spoke these rude words aloud without meaning too.  That device proved very effective, a kind of rudeness we can sympathize with.  On other occasions, however, she seems to delight in her verbal cruely, and that left me feeling a bit cold. I don't want to suggest that I subscribe to the Oprah-like belief that for characters to be interesting we must be able to internalize their qualities, but I think if a character is consistantly nasty, it makes it hard to want to follower her narrative or care about her struggles.<br />I feel the need to address a review posted below this one, which complains of the book's dealings with the &quot;bloodless overanalytical tepid world of academia,&quot; a comment so problematic and so unfair, I hardly know where to begin.  I see no reason why academia should be thought of as more &quot;bloodless&quot; as anything else with the possible exception of surgery or warfare, and I find it infuriating that a reader should criticize a novel because of his or her own anti-intellectual leanings.  The observation that &quot;no one in this book actually works for a paycheck&quot; shows that someone was paying poor attention to the novel, since there are several characters who have no relationship with academia, besides which the premise that academics don't work for their paycheck is laughable.  Academics work harder, for less money, than just about anyone.  This book is not, as this viewer suggests, a faculty novel in disguise.  It is something much more interesting than that: it deals with how the ideas that are developed and circulated by academia - both intellectual ideas and scientific ideas (in the form of prescription) medicine - become, for good and for ill, part of mainstream culture.	2001-02-11
US	49920083	R15S9XHS28CA28	0385495846	437097764	Demolition Angel	Books	4	6	7	N	N	A very entertaining book; however...	Having recently read a few run-of-the-mill cookie-cutter thrillers, the first things that struck me about &quot;Demolition Angel&quot; is that Crais is one of the more gifted prose stylists working in the mystery/thriller genre.  Sure, he doesn't have the linguistic dexterity of a Nabokov or the insight into character of a Trollope, but I did not find myself constantly tripping over his sentences, and that is surely something.<br />&quot;Demolition Angel&quot; features a heroine who is pretty far removed from his usual protagonist, Elvis Cole (a fact which has infuriated some of the reviewers who post here, quite unfairly I think; what could be more unfair than criticizing a writer for wanting to do something new?).  This time we get the hard-boiled, hard-drinking, hard-luck case Carol Starkey, former bomb squad technician who lost her boyfriend, also a bomb squad tech, and suffered physical and emotional scarring when a routine disarming turned into a freak accident.  Three years later, Starkey is drowning her sorrows in gin while still working the bomb beat, now as an investigator.  Things get interesting when a bomb tech is killed during a blast which appears to be the work of a serial bomber who calls himself Mr. Red.  Enter an attractive ATF agent for whom Starkey has conflicted feelings, and you've got yourself a novel.<br />All of which is fine and fun, but we are, of course, firmly in Genre-Convention Land here.  Mr. Red loves to leave clues for the investigators and develops a pathological attachment to Starkey, half erotic half murderous.  Starkey, meanwhile, is trying to beat down her own demons and solve this case that she might redeem herself.  Crais's gift, demonstrated slightly more effectively in &quot;LA Requiem,&quot; is to pen stories so compelling that the reader doesn't even notice the problems until the ride is over.  In &quot;Demolition Angel&quot; the major problem is the clich&eacute;d plot and characters, leaving the reader with the feeling that he or she has been down this road many, many times before.  Sure it makes for a fine entertainment, but I believe that Crais has the talent to do better than this, if only he is willing to think outside the box of generic convention.  He has tried to push himself with this book and I hope he will go even further with the next.t he or she has been down this road many, many times before.  Sure it makes for a fine entertainment, but I believe that Crais has the talent to do better than this, if only he is willing to think outside the box of generic convention.  He has tried to push himself with this book and I hope he will go even further with the next.	2001-02-09
US	49920083	R2T1ON0SPPSMAY	0553580930	101241499	A Man in Full	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Just Fantastic!	I bought this book about a year ago when it first came out in paperback, and I found myself continually putting off reading it.  I felt it was more of an obligation than a recreation.  Wow, was I ever wrong.  This is a big book, and at almost 800 small-print pages, it has plenty of room for flaws as well as greatness, but the greatness truly dominates.  Wolfe's tale of an aging, failing real-estate developer in Atlanta is packed with vivid characters, fascinating social vignettes, tense situations, and hilarious social commentary.  I found myself hurrying home so that I could get back to reading this book, which was as page-turning an experience as I've had in some time.<br />Wolfe is not without his flaws as a writer.  He wants to include a broad spectrum of contemporary culture, but sometimes he has a tin ear, and things fall flat.  His music lyrics (country metal!?) are always unbelievable, and his effort to represent hip hop is frankly laughable (the rapper he keeps talking about, Doctor Rammer Doc Doc has a name that seems remarkably stupid to anyone with the most distant understanding of hip hop culture).  As he did in Bonfire of the Vanities, Wolfe liked to create character through the construction of catch phrases, and he frequently beats them to death.  In one chapter, a woman in her fifties observes that the attractive women today look less like women and more like &quot;boys with breasts.&quot;  Sure it is amusing, but he then proceeds to use the term &quot;boys with breasts&quot; about 25 more times in the chapter.  Know when to say when.  <br />Whatever weakness he has a novelist, however, are more than trivialized buy the big successes of this book -- far better than &quot;Bonfire,&quot; by the way, which was interesting but full of clunky writing.  I am truly in awe of the scope of his accomplishment here.  Even the much-maligned final third, with its emphasis on 1st century stoicism, worked beautifully for me.  This book may have gotten some bad press because it was designed to be a blockbuster, because Wolfe clearly did not allow himself to be edited (at a craftily edited 500 - 600 pages, this book could have been a fighting-trim bit of perfection), and because what is more fun at taking a swipe at a cultural icon?  Frankly, I don't care whether or not Wolfe is a writer for the ages or if he is the Dickens of our generation.  Right now, at this point in time, &quot;A Man in Full&quot; is one of the most entertaining and satisfying novelistic experiences around.	2001-02-07
US	49920083	RJ8EJVX8BXZDU	0316038172	992158675	Man of the Hour	Books	4	2	3	N	N	A fun read that never quite fulfills its own promise	I'm going to say right off the top that I plowed through this book.  It moves at breakneck speed, and I enjoyed it almost every step of the way (which is why I gave it four stars).  But I knew that something was wrong about halfway through when I realized that if I were to lose the book and never finish it, I wouldn't particularly mind.  How can a book be so compelling and un-compelling at the same time?<br />I began to think about the question in terms of genre.  There is no reasons why thrillers can't be great literature.  Sure, there always has been and will be a shortage of these literary thrillers, but that's no reason why readers should not expect a great deal from the thrillers they read.  On the other hand, uninspired writing doesn't always have to keep a thriller from being very entertaining, and I've gobbled down my fair share of these, knowing that they were candy and that they were not particularly good for me.  &quot;Man of the Hour&quot; is an interesting case because it has a literary thriller plot but pulp thriller writing, and for me that left me feeling a little unsatisfied.<br />The plot concerns a school teacher who rescues a student when a bomb explodes on a school bus.  First he becomes a media darling, but then the media turns against him and vilifies him, announcing he is the prime suspect, despite the fact that he has not been charged.  This plot seems literary thriller-ish to me because it depends more on tension and character and mood than it does on body count.  You have the ordinary person who finds himself dragged into an extra-ordinary, but basically plausible situation, a set-up reminiscent of the better work of Colin Harrison (minus Harrison's endless gratuitous sex scenes).  This sort of story can be riveting, the problem with &quot;Man of the Hour&quot; is that the apparatus isn't quite up to snuff.  His characters are often caricatures, with lines of dialogue designed not to be plausible but to raise the tension level.  The scenesseem to me situation-driven rather than character driven, and frankly so do to the characters.  In all fairness, the rude cop, the crazy wife, the out-spoken student, the belligerent lunch-lady make for entertaining reading, but they also leave me feeling like I've got something gritty on my teeth.<br />Somewhat more interesting is Blauner's portrait of the terrorist bomber, who he describes sympathetically and in somewhat more depth than the school-teacher protagonist, Fitzgerald, who comes off as a two-dimensional fantasy of urban pedagogy.  The bomber does things, he faces moral crises, he feels confused and angry and belligerent: all very interesting stuff.  Fitzgerald, on the other hand - well, I suppose we are told he feels things, but I never quite feel what he feels.  These two figures circle each other throughout the book, and any reader familiar with the genre knows there has to be some sort of confrontation, so the climax will be a surprise for absolutely no one, and getting there happens in very un-thriller-like ways.  Fitzgerald determines that he is going to track down the real bomber, since the authorities aren't doing it, but his investigative efforts consist mainly of him asking people he runs into if they happen to know who did it.  And how he manages to face off against the bomber at the end - well, I won't spoil it, but lets just say that it was tool novelistic even for a die-hard novel-reader.<br />Ultimately, this book is far superior than the sum of its parts.  I think anyone picking it up for a long airplane flight will get the kind of compelling entertainment they desire.  It is just that I wanted it to be more than what it was: I wanted it to be what it was supposed to be.	2001-01-30
US	49920083	RZRPQRQZ9ORX7	0679450041	383312801	The Amazing Adventures of Kavalier & Clay: A Novel	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A fine third outing	This novel, Chabon's third, is without a doubt his most ambitious, and that ambition pays off in wonderful ways.  This story of two Jewish young men who are early progenitors of comic books manages to tap into some of the major themes of mid-20th-century American life.  Chabon's use of comic books is wonderful: the medium is both honored and parodied in the cleverest ways.  The characters are wonderfully drawn, and this insightful work, like the comic books it loves, touches upon major social issues and shows both human greatness and human suffering.<br /> I think Chabon could have trimmed this book down a bit - some passages go on for a little too long, and he seems a little bit in love with his own dexterous wordsmithy.  On the other hand, if he is trying to do with words what comic books do with images, then he is remarkably successful.  Comic books, after all, are known to be self-indulgent even while they are being effective.<br /> In short, Chabon has managed to produce a vivid and wonderfully human novel.  I suspect he may feel that this is the book he has been working toward his whole career, but I think it promises even better things to come.	2001-01-14
US	49920083	R2OQNZIH4C449D	0786703709	122298143	Jews Without Money	Books	5	50	51	N	N	Polemical but Riveting	&quot;Jews without money&quot; seems to me far more remarkable for its political positions than for its writing.  Gold is, to put it bluntly, not a particularly skilled wordsmith.  His limitations are obvious from the first page.  Nevertheless this novel/memoir makes for fascinating reading.  The book consists of a series of loosely connected vignettes from the life of a child growing up in the Lower East Side at the turn of the century.  Gold wants to capture the sights and smells and sensations of that world, and while his prose is not quite up to the task, the reader still comes away powerfully moved.<br />What seems to be unique about Gold's account is his political bent.  Rather than softening or sentimentalizing his experiences, he picks at scabs and pulls back the curtain to reveal horrors to his readers.  As a devoted socialist, he wants to expose the evils of unrestrained capitalism.  What that means for him is, rather than denying anti-Semitic stereotypes, he revels in them. Gold he wants the reader to understand that they are the result, not of Jewish culture, but of the effects of American ghetto poverty upon the Jews of his neighborhood.  Povery, he aruges, turns potential into corruption.  His is a world in which people will do anything for a few pennies, often all that stands between them and starvation.  On the other hand, his world is also populated by characters who remain strong despite their suffering: his mother, who would rather go hungry than see a stranger starve; the foolish store-owner, who loses her livelihood because she cannot stand to turn away the poor.  There are also desperate prostitutes, rapacious pawn brokers, crooked businessmen, and dreamers and schemers of all sorts.<br />This book lacks the literary ambition of Henry Roth's &quot;Call it Sleep&quot; or the narrative power of Abraham Cahan's &quot;Rise of David Levinsky&quot; (in my opinion, the finest novel ever about the Jewish immigrant experience).  This is a political tract, and sometimes its dogma is rather irritating, even offensive.  Nevertheless, it is a significant and important document of early 20th-century Jewish culture, and deserves to be read.	2001-01-02
US	49920083	RBMXG48ZT9SOY	0375724834	352044771	Motherless Brooklyn	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Pretty Darn Good	This is an usual book, well worth reading, very innovative, and lots of fun.  The story concerns Lionel Essrog, an orphan taken in by a low-level Mafia type.  Essrog suffers from Tourett's disease, which causes him to have verbal tics and engage in compulsive behavior.  The Mafia guy, a father figure, employs Essrog and his orphan buddies as private eyes, but when the Mafia guy is killed, Essrog takes on his first serious case: finding who murdered his best friend.<br />So far, so good.  We have a classic genre opening, and a fine literary twist.  A P.I. with Tourett's may seem absurd, and I found it a bit over-the-top when I started reading, but it actually makes more and more sense as the plot unfolds.  And ultimately, the Tourett's element is the creative heart of this very entertaining novel and precisely what makes it so much fun.  The bits that have nothing to do with the mystery plot (most notably Essrog's recollections of his childhood and early involvement with his Mafia patron) prove to be the most absorbing and moving sequences.  The narrator's verbal tics are relentlessly clever, and quite frequently hilarious.  As a literary novel, then, the book is entirely successful and a wonderful read.<br />It loses a star (really a half star, but Amazon doesn't allow for that nuance) for the mystery element, which I found undercooked.  I never really cared who did it, and I never really cared about the mystery itself.  What makes this book remarkable is the fact that I didn't especially care that I didn't care.  The writing and characters, especially Essrog, were enough to keep me turning the pages.	2001-01-01
US	49920083	R3MJSXO6E1L6E1	0679463046	79158641	Ghostwritten: A Novel	Books	5	16	20	N	N	The Greatest Book Ever Written	OK, maybe it's not the greatest book ever written, but it is pretty amazing, and I sure felt that &quot;greatest book ever written&quot; enthusiasm while reading it.  If you are a public reader like I am (commuter trains), then this is the kind of novel that makes you want to shake the person next to you and tell them all about it.  It is that good.<br />Mitchell's tale is woven through a series of vaguely connected tales in that span Asia, Europe and the U.S. in gradual westward movements.  Each tale is self contained, but each story also illuminates or expands previous stories until they ultimately intersect at the conclusion.  Though I generally prefer novels to short stories, I would have to say that I think the strength of this book is in the individual tales rather the pattern of the whole.  His characters are wonderful, and he is marvelously skilled at creating tension, drama and reader interest within the first few paragraphs of each story.  It doesn't gel quite as much as I would have like, but I feel like that is more or a quibble than a complaint.  Mitchell is an astonishingly gifted writer.<br />I read a lot of books, but there are very few contemporary novels that I have so enjoyed in recent years.  &quot;High Fidelity&quot; by Nick Hornby and &quot;A Conspiracy of Paper&quot; by David Liss come to mind.  &quot;Ghostwritten&quot; is very different from those books (and they are very different from each other), but like those novels, it is original, daring, entertaining, and very satisfying.  I can't recommend this one strongly enough.	2000-12-31
US	49920083	R239IJKANHZGU6	006019541X	351520335	Blue Angel: A Novel	Books	4	5	7	N	N	A Very Fine Novel -- Not Flawless, but Very Fine	I found a great deal to like about &quot;Blue Angel.&quot;  For the most part, it was a tremendously enjoyable read that moved quickly and kept me engaged.  Prose's descriptions of her protagonist's crush, his difficulties  with teaching, his covert efforts to hide his emotions from his family,  were all drawn with impressive skill and sympathy.  The book is at times  hilarious, at other times unbearably painful; it has, for example, what is  probably the most pathetic (literally -- that is, inducing pathos) sex  scene I've ever read.  The depictions of academic silliness, while nothing  ground-breaking, are handled with a capable and witty hand, and make for  great entertainment.  Perhaps most impressive, Prose captures with perfect  pitch the nuances of student writing, both the horrible and the  transcendent.<br />On the other hand, there were a few things that didn't  quite work for me.  I hate to be one of those Amazon reviewers who wants to  sound like he knows more about a subject that the writer, but as someone  who has taken fiction workshops in college and who has taught college  writing workshops, I just found the classroom scene so extreme as to be  without credit.  Prose may have a great deal of experience with this sort  of thing, and for all I know the scenes are realistic, but I just didn't  find them _believable_ -- and thus they were distracting.  Also, the  descent into PC hell that marks the last third of the book seems like it  might have struck a chord ten years ago, but it just felt about of place  today.<br />Despite these misgivings, I think Blue Angel to be a wonderful and  clever novel -- well worth reading.	2000-07-24
US	49920083	R3K94YUWK0WTK9	0375502920	154526115	A Conspiracy of Paper: A Novel	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A Vibrant, Gripping, Entertaining Book	As someone who works in the film industry, I wanted to check out &quot;A Conspiracy of Paper&quot; as soon as I read that the movie rights had been acquired by Miramax.  What I found delighted me.  I happen to enjoy  historical fiction because I love seeing how writers recreate the past, but  rarely have I seen a period depicted with the verve that David Liss does  here.  Most historical novels that want to be taken seriously are deadly  serious, as though to inject any humor into the tale would be to disqualify  it as a worthwhile endeavor.  On the other hand, those who take a stab at  humor too often fall into the realm of the cartoonish.  What I loved about  &quot;A Conspiracy of Paper&quot; is that it is literary in the best sense,  but it is also a very fun and sometimes funny book.  The mystery and  suspense element was fascinating, and that is what kept me franticly  turning the pages, but I think what I'll remember about this book was how  it depicted a world in such as way as to make it both frightening and  delightful.	2000-03-11
US	49920083	R1NW9V5HN74RJN	0375502920	154526115	A Conspiracy of Paper: A Novel	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Don�t miss this terrific book!	Anyone who loves historical thrillers that are complex but easy to get into is going to love \\"A Conspiracy of Paper.\\"  This book has a great mystery, great characters, and is really, really addictive.  I was up a lot  later for two nights than I should have been because I couldn't put it  down.   The author is one of the best new writers I've come across in a  long time.  He writes in the language of the 1700s, which scared me off at  first, but then I found how easy it was to read.  And once the plot got  going, which it does almost right away, I was hooked.  I read a lot of  novels, and I like many of them, but I LOVED this one.	2000-03-09
