US	49945660	RLMIU9ORZERAW	0778321606	618771939	The Shop on Blossom Street (Blossom Street, No. 1)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Another great read from Debbie	The Shop On Blossom Street is the story of four very different women who are brought together at a yarn store.  Lydia, the owner of the store is a two-time survivor of cancer who opens the store as an \\"affirmation of life\\".  Jacqueline is an uptight socialite who, while most people think she has the perfect life, is miserable and lonely in her marriage.  Carol longs for a baby and doesn't want to admit their might never be one for her and her husband.  And last but not least there's Alix, the street-smart, untouchable girl who's bark is worse than her bite.  The four become friends as they search for happiness. <br /> <br />As always, Debbie creates characters who readers learn to care about.  The characters are written in a way that makes them real people with real problems.  I found myself hoping for the best for each of them.  I even found myself wanting to learn to knit as I read. The way Debbie used this hobby was great.  Knitting wasn't written in just any old way.  It made sense and captured my attention as something I might try!   <br /> <br />There are surprises along the way that will leave you happy and wanting more.  At the end of the book I found myself wanting to know more about these people and their lives.  (It's a good thing there's a sequel!)  Debbie has once again delivered a great book with characters to capture your heart.  I would definitely recommend this book to anyone who is craving a good read.	2005-07-06
US	49945660	R5K9JVPY80EWR	0515112070	156737578	Past Promises	Books	4	3	3	N	N	slow starter but a good read	Jessica Stanbridge sets out for Colorado with her companion Myra.  Her mission is to find saurian bones for the museum that she works at.  She hires a guide, Rory Burnett. His mission is to keep her away from the sacred ground of the Ute Indians.  These two are not on friendly terms but there is an underlying current of attraction running between them.  Who will have their mission end in success?  Or will both be successful in love? <br /> <br />Past Promises is a good read.  It does start out a little slow.  In fact I had to start this book two different times and was about to give up when it began to get interesting.  The characters were likable and well-developed.  The storyline was OK, except I wasn't very interested in the whole paleontology part of the book.   <br /> <br />Past Promises ia a book worth reading after you get past the first fifty or so pages.  Don't give up because this is a very good read woth the time.	2005-04-02
US	49945660	R37L9V49JJ8P5L	0446614106	471633809	Magnolia Sky (Warner Forever)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Magnolia Sky	Luke Boudreau goes to Gover, Mississippi to pay his respects to the mother of one of his Ranger men.  When he arrives he is stunned to find out that Calvin was married and had been for eight years.  Luke's brief stop turns into a stay as he tries to help out the family of the man whose death he feels responsible for. <br /> <br />Magnolia Sky was an OK read for me.  The book starts out slow and doesn't really gain momentum until the middle.  The characters don't seem to be as well written as the ones in her earlier books.  This book is part of a stand-alone series about a family from Glens Crossing, Indiana.  The books that take place in Indiana seem to be better written.  This might be since the author is from Indiana and has better background information from which to write. <br /> <br />All in all, this is a book worth reading.  Once it gets going it is very much worth the time.  I would recommend reading the two previous books to this one though.	2005-03-24
US	49945660	R1DEVQ11TAEIQD	0385336349	989586791	Echoes	Books	3	2	4	N	N	Echoes	Echoes starts out as a really good, interesting story of a German Jewish girl who meets a French man while vacationing in Switzerland with her parents.  There is a war going on so the Frenchman is forbidden fruit as far as Beata's parents are concerned.  That doesn't stop Beata and Antoine from falling in love.  They leave their families behind for the love they have for one another.  Their story is very touching and well-written.   <br /> <br />At the time of WWII when much of the book takes place the story takes a plunge to the boring side. The focus is on Beata's oldest daughter who is now becoming a nun.  The story just isn't all that great from this point to the end of the book.  The potential is there for a great read but it just doesn't take off.  The characters are bland and boring.  The reader is left reading just to get to the end of the book. <br /> <br />I agree with other reviewers that this book could have been so much more than it was.  It was a good story just poorly written.  This seems to be the case with many DS novels nowadays.  DS's inconsistent writing is leaving me to wait for the paperback edition instead of spending my hard earned money on the hard cover.  If you want to read a very interesting war time read try \\"The Ring\\" by Danielle Steel.  This is a very moving story that will keep you interested until the last page.	2005-03-02
US	49945660	R16ZPPSZQW2NUA	0743457943	165975928	Trading Places	Books	4	1	3	N	N	Trading Places	This was a very good story about twin sisters who trade places when one sister, who is a detective, is shot during a drug bust. Her professional gambler sister comes to Atlanta from Las Vegas to help her sister find out who shot her, her canine partner, and her human partner.  It seems as if something fishy is going on in the police department.  It's up the the gambling twin to find out who is after her sister before it's too late. <br /> <br />This was a good story and a pretty well written book.  There are several confusing parts when it comes to the sisters being mentioned.  As other reviewers have already stated sometimes the names are wrong. This makes it a little confusing and the reader has to go back and read over to make sure they are keeping up with the story.  Other than this the book is very good and well worth the time to read.	2005-03-02
US	49945660	R17B404F0AA2D9	0345391055	782303291	Disclosure	Books	5	3	3	N	N	An Incredible Read	Nothing goes right for Tom Sanders from page one of this book.  He is running late for work and has to help his wife with the kids. There's problems with the new products he's in charge of. He doesn't get the promotion he expected to get.   And to top it all off his ex-girlfriend got his promotion and is now his boss.  Things go downhill (if possible) from there when he is sexually harrassed by her.  He finds himself stuck in the situation when people don't believe a man could possibly be harrassed by a woman.  These events lead to a story that is powerful, gripping, and puts the reader on an emotional roller coaster. <br /> <br />Disclosure is an awesome book.  Based on a true events this book grabs the reader and won't let go.  It is very well written and is easy to follow.  Reader beware though this book has some strong language and some explicit scenes.  If you are open-minded enough this shouldn't be a problem and the explicit scene is important in the story as it's the focus of the book. <br /> <br />This book is great at exploring the inner workings of a major corporation.  It also explores the idea of a man being sexually harrassed by a woman instead of the usual scenario with the woman as the victim.  It focuses on the stigma that is attached to the accuser and the accused.   <br /> <br />Disclosure is an incredible book to read.  It is very entertaining and is easy to read.  It keeps the reader interested until the very last page.  Well worth the time and definitely one to recommend!	2004-12-15
US	49945660	R2U828YO1EMJV0	1551668262	96305119	The Wager	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Not a bad read	Wager by Metsy Hingle was an enjoyable book to read.  The main character Laura is in for the shock of her life after her mother dies and she finds out she has kept a secret from Laura her whole life.  Laura sets out to find out who her father and family really are after receiving a visit from Josh Logan, a family friend of the Jardine family.  Laura and her new family are leary of each other and it isn't a smooth journey becoming one big happy family.  Laura also wants to find out the mystery writer of a letter her mother kept suggesting she abort Laura all those years ago.   She isn't sure who the author is and may never find out.   <br /> <br />Wager was a well written book with just a few slow parts.  Sometimes the romance of Laura and Josh just seemed to take too long.  It would have been just as interesting to read about had the author not taken pages and pages to discuss them.  The book seemed to move at a good pace and then came to a halt while these two characters tried to sort out their feelings.  The secondary characters really added a lot to the story and were well developed.  It seems the author really took the time to add them and make them a part of the story.  The city of New Orleans and the hotel could also be considered characters the way they were written. I thought this was a nice touch to the story and made it more interesting. <br /> <br />Wager is a good book for anyone wanting to read of romance and mystery.  There is something for everyone in this book!	2004-12-09
US	49945660	R1Y8LFL8M8K4QU	0312307020	402294658	Emma's Secret	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Another Generation of Hartes	Emma's Secret is the fourth book in the Woman of Substance series. This book primarily focuses on the great-granddaughters of Emma Harte.  With this being the fourth generation of Harte's it becomes a little confusing keeping everyone and their parents and grandparents straight.  There are a couple pages at the front that lists the family in a who's who but this doesn't quite keep the confusion at bay. Even for someone who has read all of the books I was confused and had to keep referring to the family listing. <br /> <br />This book is not as well written as the first three in the series.  There is a secret of an American girl who appears and whom bears a striking resemblance to Emma's granddaughter Paula.  This secret takes the reader back to WWII to Emma, Blackie O'Neill and David Kallinski and all the clans.  I believe this section of the book was cut from the original manuscript of A Woman of Substance as the DVD of the same title has an intereview with BTB and she says she had to cut some of the war story because the editor thought the book was too long.  I personally found myself more than a little bored with all the war talk and stats.   <br /> <br />This book seems to end quickly and without much excitement.  The \\"secret\\" in the book is revealed in a way that doesn't leave the reader feeling all that shocked.  And then basically the book is finished.  No loose ends are tied up but I think that will happen in the sequel \\"Unexpected Blessings\\" which the  author refers to in a letter at the end. <br /> <br />All in all this was an OK read for me because I had read the three previous books and like this family.  I wanted to know what had happened to them after the third book.  This book let me know but didn't do much else. I'm looking forward to the fifth book and hoping it will be much better.	2004-11-16
US	49945660	R2EG1FEW84JBWL	0061008095	208054625	To Be the Best	Books	5	19	21	N	N	Another great Harte family  read	To Be The Best is the third book in the Emma Harte saga.  This book focuses on the grandchildren of the late Emma Harte. The grandchildren are all grown up and trying to live their lives the best way possible to please the memory of their beloved grandmother Emma.  This book dedicates time to each of the more prominent grandchildren: Paula, Phillip, Emily, Alexander, Anthony, and Jonathan.  This book doesn't have much about Emma's children in it except for her daughter Daisy.   <br /> <br />I found this book very interesting and was glad I didn't pass it by due to the other two reviews that were written about it.  This book does jump from place to place but that is because Emma's grandchildren live in different places and travel because of their careers.  Some of the past is relived but this is so someone who hasn't read the two previous books will understand a little bit better what is going on and why it is happening.  There is sadness in this book but life isn't always happy and this book is written to reflect the lives in a most true (if somewhat exaggerated) sense. <br /> <br />This book was a wonderful read for anyone that has read the two previous books in the trilogy.  It updates you on the lives of the Hartes, O'Neill's, and Kallinski's.  I think this was an easy book to read and was well written.  It has all the characters I had grown to like and some I'd grown to dislike from the earlier books and also some new characters to keep the book fresh and interesting. <br /> <br />I would definitely recommend this book to anyone who has read A Woman of Substance and Hold the Dream.  I would suggest that anyone wanting to read To Be The Best read the other books first to get a feeling for the characters and their lives.  This is most definitely a five star read!	2004-11-05
US	49945660	R26C5BUBNZOKNB	0821774565	650000682	Belle Of The Ball: The Three Graces (Zebra Ballad Romance)	Books	5	20	20	N	N	A fun read!	Belle Sullivan is one of three sisters named after the Three Graces.  But let me tell you, these sisters traits are far from their namesakes.  They are invited to go out with three young gentleman to see the rock formations one afternoon.  While there the sisters go to the rock formation from which they were named and at their mother's request make a wish. While there they overhear their escorts saying less than flattering things about them.  They devise a plan to get revenge on the three.  Belle wishes to become beautiful and will seek her revenge by making the three gentlemen fall in love with her--only for her to reject them.  Belle puts her plan into motion and with help from some newfound friends sets out to get revenge.  <br /> <br />This book was very fun to read.  Set in Colorado Springs, a.k.a. \\"Little London\\" it has the western feel with a bit of Regency romance thrown in.  The characters were all very well written and the storyline was superb.  It is hard to put this book down.  While this is the first book in a  trilogy it makes the reader want to rush out and get the other two to find out what happens to all three sisters.   <br /> <br />This book is just fantastic!  It is a nice, fun read to spend an afternoon or evening with.  This book should come with a guarantee that it won't leave you bored!	2004-10-23
US	49945660	R2LQZ0VJMDV8L6	0446364282	460818201	Love's Encore	Books	5	20	20	N	N	An amazing read	Camille Jameson is hired to redecorate Bridal Wreath, an old house with a lot of charm and history.  She takes the job and goes to Bridal Wreath looking forward to restoring this house to it's dignity.  She gets there to find out the son of the owner of the house is Zack Prescott. The man she had a one night stand with two years ago. She wants nothing more than to back out of the job and return to Atlanta but Zack won't let her because his father is ill and wants the house restored.  Camille must work and live at the house and try to keep her feelings a secret. <br /> <br />Love's Encore is a fantastic book.  It is very easy to read with characters who are for the most part down-to-earth and real.  The plot of this book is excellent and moves along keeping the reader interested. I was able to read this book in just a few hours because it was so good and entertaining. <br /> <br />This is one of Sandra Brown's older books but stands the test of time well. I found it to be very good to read and worth the time.	2004-10-23
US	49945660	R32UXISTZRMSG1	0440200563	385998539	Fine Things	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Vintage Danielle Steel	Fine Things is the story of Bernard Fine.  Bernard is a success in his career at Wolff's.  One of the leading department stores.  He doesn't have as much success with his personal life.  After dating two women who were NOT what his mother approved of and whom ended up breaking Bernie's heart he has given up on love and declared himself married to his job.  He is sent to San Francisco to run the store there.  He doesn't want to move there  and is promised a return to New York as soon as is fit.  Bernie meets and falls in love with Liz O'Reilly. Life for the two and Liz's daughter Jane is perfect.  Too perfect though as cancer strikes Liz shortly after the birth of their baby.  Bernie's perfect world is turned upside down as he has to watch his wife die and keep up some sense of normalcy for his two children.  Life isn't very easy without Liz though.  One tragedy after another happens to Bernie and the family.  Eventually though life turns out to be good for Bernie and the kids. <br /> <br />This was a very good read.  It keeps the reader wondering what will happen.  I read fast and furious to see what would happen to Liz and after she passed away to Bernie and the children.  There is a roller coaster of emotion in this book as there is happiness and tragedy and triumph.  The characters seemed to be fairly well written, even if they were flawed.  Nanny Pippin was a great asset to the story.  I enjoyed her character very much.   <br /> <br />This being an older Steel novel I must compare it to recent ones by saying it is much better.   There isn't nearly the repitition as is in her newer novels.  The characters actually have dimension and have a story to be told.  The plot was good too. <br /> <br />If you are a Danielle Steel fan I think you'll enjoy her work.  If your new to Ms. Steel and weren't impressed by her recent work try this book out. It is much better and I'm sure you'll enjoy it.	2004-10-11
US	49945660	R9I9R0K2XQNLM	0778320731	751042761	44 Cranberry Point (Cedar Cove, Book 4)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A 4th trip to Cedar Cove	44 Cranberry Point is the fourth book in the Cedar Cove series by Debbie Macomber.  In this book the focus is to be on the death that occured over a year ago at Bob and Peggy Beldon's bed and breakfast, the Tyme and Tyde.  Bob had served in Vietman with the dead man and there is reason to believe that his life may also be in danger. <br /> <br />This book also features the continuing story of the other townsfolk.  Jack and Olivia are back from their honeymoon and for them the honeymoon may be over as they try to mold their two lives into one.  Olivia's mother Charlotte has fallen for a newcomer to town--Ben Rhoades.  Olivia's brother Will (who lives out of state) wants Olivia to check into Ben's past to make sure he isn't a con artist.  Grace Sherman is trying to put the pieces back together after Olivia's brother Will betrays her and it costs her the love of Cliff Harding.  Cecelia and Ian are trying to work on their marriage after the death of their baby girl.  These are just a few of the other stories being followed in this book. <br /> <br />44 Cranberry Point was a good book.  It was nice to see what was happening to the various townspeople.  I was a little upset with the mystery man storyline.  I didn't think it was extremely well written.  I hope Ms. Macomber doesn't try to add a mystery to all of her Cedar Cove books and just sticks with their everyday lives.  That is what I love so much about her books.  She writes about everyday people and their everyday lives.  The characters in her books could be each readers next door neighbors.  That is what attracts so many readers to her books again and again and I hope that is what she sticks with, instead of adding \\"mystery and suspense\\" to her books. <br /> <br />While 44 Cranberry Point is a book that stands on it's own it is helpful to read the previous three books in the series to get acquainted with all the characters.  Overall this is a good read.	2004-09-12
US	49945660	R2RFT2V1P22COE	0373293054	303019428	The Duke's Mistress	Books	4	9	9	N	N	A Predictable but easy read	The Duke's Mistress is the story of Isabelle Milborne,  who is deceived by her husband, Lord Milborne,  and is used as a ploy in his revenge against Justin, the Duke of Westmore,  whose father he holds responsible for the death of his father.  Three years later Justin is seeking his own revenge against Isabelle, whom he fell in love with but thinks he was betrayed by.  Justin meets Isabelle for the first time in three years at a ball.  He sets out immediately to get revenge.  Justin realizes that his love for Isabelle hasn't diminished over the years and after a series of events makes her his mistress for the Season to protect her from the gossip about her that spreads around London.  Will having Belle as his mistress be enough??? <br /> <br />The Duke's Mistress was a very predictable regency romance novel.  The characters were predictable and the storyline the same.  However, this book was written in a way that was entertaining.  It was a very easy book to read with characters who actually had a bit of dimension. Justin and Belle were likable characters who seemed real.  The author was very descriptive and this turned out to be an asset to the story.   <br /> <br />This book starts out a little slow but picks up speed and keeps the reader interested and entertained through the rest of the book.  A nice lazy afternoon read.	2004-09-02
US	49945660	R3JKPNP4F0R026	0061008087	524230459	Hold the Dream	Books	4	12	12	N	N	A Continuing Saga	Hold the Dream is the continuing saga of Emma Harte and her vast empire.  This book picks up where A Woman of Substance ended.  The focus of this book is Emma and her grandchilden with Paula taking over as the head of the family.  This is a family that still doesn't get along and has more than it's fair share of jealously, lies, and  backstabbing mixed in with love, happiness, and grief.    This is a well-written book that keeps the reader interested in this family and all of their successes and failures.   A must read for any fan of A Woman of Substance.	2004-09-02
US	49945660	R2IG0ZCPUZAS0E	0515090379	679725329	Separate Beds	Books	5	43	45	N	N	One of the best books I've ever read	Separate Beds is without a doubt one of the best books I've ever read.  It is a wonderfully written book about two people and how their lives change when their actions on a blind date result in an unexpected and unwanted pregnancy.      Catherine Anderson is a college student who comes from a poor family.  Her father is an abusive alcoholic and her mother is a frail creature who doesn't stand up for herself.  Catherine's life is a struggle and she isn't shown any love by her family.  Clay Forrester, however, is the guy who has it all--money, great looks, a fast car, a family who loves him and everything he wants at his fingertips.  These two are set up on a blind date and when Catherine shows up at Clay's house with her father Clay doesn't even remember her.  Clay's pressured by his family to do the right thing and give the baby a name.  Clay and Catherine agree to a marriage that will keep Clay's name reputable and will give the baby a name. Catherine will get a college education and financial support for the baby.  They agree to divorce after the baby is born.  Their marriage though must look legitimate and not like the business deal  that it is.  However, they begin to have feelings for each other but their pride stands in the way.  Will the marriage work or will they go their separate ways?    This book is just incredible. It is written with such feeling that the reader forgets these are fictional characters and begins to care about what happens to them.  I found myself cheering Clay on when he tries to help Catherine understand her feelings.  The reader can really see how much Clay cares for Catherine and how much she cares for him, even though she won't admit it.      This is a wonderful story.  I was sad to finish this story as I wanted it to go on.  The characters were all well developed and the story was great.  This book is a guaranteed page turner as you just have to keep reading to see if these two can put pride aside and let their love for each other show.  A book to put on the keeper shelf and read again.  I highly recommend this book.	2004-07-24
US	49945660	R2L3IOCAPMQSQ	0440236630	230297888	A Summer to Remember (Bedwyn Saga)	Books	3	3	5	N	N	An average romance	Kit, Viscount Ravensburg needs a fiance before going home to his family's seat. He has a woman waiting for him at home but she is his dead brother's bethrothed and Kit's ex lover.  He doesn't want to have to marry her now after the events of three years ago.   He asks Lauren Edgeworth to marry him upon a wager with his friends that he can have her under his spell within two weeks time.  Instead of marrying him Lauren agrees to pretending to be his bethrothed and go to his family's home for the summer.  In return, Kit is to give her a summer to remember.  A summer of fun and adventure before she breaks of the engagement and becomes a spinister.  What seems like a simple plan where both will benefit becomes very complex as the two begin to develop feelings for each other.  <br />A Summer to Remember was just an average romance for me.  It is the typical rogue who sets his eyes upon a lovely, proper lady and sees a challenge ahead of him.  Lauren is so prim and proper and Kit is quite the rogue in every aspect of his life.  They both have their share of secrets that have turned them into the adults they are.  The setting was nice and the romance scenes were nicely written.  I liked the storyline but got a little bored with all of the war stories Kit told.  They were a somewhat intrical part of the story but could have been told in much less time.  I also found it a little hard to get interested in the story until the first 100 pages or so (hardcover).  When their agreement was finalized and they started playing their respective parts the story became interesting and fun to read.<br />A Summer to Remember is a nice quick read for an afternoon.  I would probably  borrow it from the library though or perhaps buy a secondhand copy.  Not a keeper for me.	2004-07-13
US	49945660	R23NVEPB175N67	0385336357	721896362	Second Chance	Books	4	17	17	N	N	Closet space aside, not a bad read	Fiona Monaghan is the best of the best in the magazine world.  She is editor of Chic magazine.  She meets John Anderson, head of an ad agency through the magazine.  It is instant attraction for John but Fiona drags her feet when it comes to a romance between the two.  She uses lack of closet space as a reason to not become close to John or any man for that matter.  But as happens, opposites attract and the two soon find themselves in love--although it may not end with a happily ever after.  Fiona is a steadfast woman who leads a somewhat exotic lifestyle with a house man who wears high heels and a dog whom she thinks of as a person. And John has issues of his own with his two grown daughters and his housekeeper and also the psycho dog from %&amp;^$!  These two must try to put their differences aside and deal with their different lifestyles while being a couple.  It's a question though if they'll be able to succeed.<br />Second chance was an easy read.  At just a little over 200 pages it is not a long read, though it is repetitive.  Ms. Steel is still in her &quot;repetitive stage&quot; and tells the reader over and over again about the characters and their downfalls.  This is a story though of opposites attracting and the problems that can spring up in a relationship of this kind.  Being one half of an attracted opposites couple I could relate to the issues at hand here.  It is sometimes hard to compromise with someone who is at times completely different than yourself.  Ms. Steel did a good job of showing this aspect of the relationship. <br />While this isn't a deep, thought-provoking read, it is a nice quick, easy read for a sunny day outside.	2004-07-10
US	49945660	R29325DWDP4RFT	051512527X	323363922	Blue Moon	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A Sweet and enchanting love story	Blue Moon is a sweet love story of two people who have scars inside and out but are determined to rise above their problems and live their lives the best they can.  Olivia is a girl on the run who gets lost in a Southern Illinois swamp.  Noah is the half-breed man who finds her and nurses her back to health.  He also helps her find her way to her family who she has been separated from.  In doing this he sets aside his own feelings for his love of Olivia.<br />This book is a fantastic read.  The characters are real and the story wonderful.  It doesn't take long for the reader to be engrossed in their story and wanting them to have their happily-ever-after.  Blue Moon is a wonderfully written book with a great storyline and well-developed characters.  Blue Moon is a book to keep on the shelf and revisit again and again.	2004-07-06
US	49945660	RE0WLKQ749Z1N	0345435168	878470234	Open House: A Novel (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	1	3	8	N	N	Would give it zero stars if I could	This book was horrible.  I couldn't finish reading it, which is saying a lot because I hate to waste my hard earned money on a book that I can't read.  I can't believe this was an Oprah choice.  Not that I read books or do anything else because Oprah suggests it.  I read another one of her book choices and found it to be an entertaining read.  But not this one.<br />The characters in this book seemed shallow.  Sam seemed to be more of a ditz than a woman crushed by an estranged husband.  The son seemed very immature for his age.  Maybe this was just from the way he was written.<br />OK, I can't say much more because I didn't read the whole book.  I will say I tried though, it just wasn't worth my time.  The only reason I'm writing the review is to advise others to not even waste their time on this poorly written book.	2004-07-05
US	49945660	R9DSB8RP7ONIX	0061008079	680358721	Woman of Substance, A	Books	5	6	6	N	N	A Brilliant Read	A Woman of Substance is the story of Emma Harte, an English woman who starts life out in poverty-like conditions and rises above it to become one of the richest women in the world.  The story starts out in New York in 1968 where the reader is introduced to Emma and her granddaughter Paula.  It then progresses to England in the current day (1968) where Emma settles down to do some family business.  The book then goes back to Emma's childhood in England in the early 1900's.  Emma is a maid at Fairley Hall, a job she hates but must perform to help the family finances.  Something then happens that causes Emma to have to leave home and fend for herself.  Being a strong person she doesn't dwell in self-pity.  Instead she uses her mind and her natural talent at business to start the store that will later turn into a major empire.<br />A Woman of Substance is a well-written book.  I must agree with other reviewers that the first part is a bit confusing and doesn't really do much except to set up the scene to take the reader back into Emma's childhood to see her rise to fortune.  I honestly didn't think I would like this book during Part 1 but kept reading.  Ultimately I was glad I didn't give up on this book as it is extremely entertaining and well worth the time to read.  There are a lot of characters in the book to keep straight.  Once figured out though the characters all have an important part in the book.<br />I can't say enough about this wonderful book.  It is just brilliant.  It has everything from poverty to fortune, love to hatred, revenge, friendship, laughter, tears.  Every emotion possible is revealed during the 900 plus pages of this book.<br />A Woman of Substance is a must read book.  Definitely a book to put on the keeper shelf to revisit in the future.	2004-07-02
US	49945660	R1UEZVO3RET77I	0671004565	203276036	We'll Meet Again	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A Riveting Read	In We'll Meet Again, Molly Carpenter-Lasch is tried and convicted of killing her husband, beloved Dr. Gary Lasch.  There's one problem though--Molly has no recollection of the events of that night.  She awoke the morning after the murder to find herself covered in her dead husband's blood. A plea bargain gets her a shorter sentence and upon her release Molly declares on TV for the world to see that she didn't kill her husband but she will try to find out who did.  Enter Fran Simmons, school chum whose father committed suicide for stealing money from the library fund.  Fran is now an investigative reporter and Molly wants her to help her find the truth behind her husband's murder.<br />This story was hard to get into but after it gets going it is well worth the time.  There are a lot of characters involved which makes it at times very frustrating keeping them straight.  I found myself going back to reread pages trying to keep them straightened out in my mind.  The storyline is good, although a little confusing when speaking of the HMO's.  The book is fast-paced after about page 100.  I found myself not really enjoying the book until I had passed the 100 page milestone.  Then it becomes so good I couldn't think of not finishing it.  And I must say the culprit was NOT who I thought it would be.<br />We'll Meet Again is a book well worth reading.  Just keep in mind you need to get past the somewhat boring beginning to truly enjoy it.  Although not one of my favorite Mary Higgins Clark books one enjoyable to read.	2004-06-18
US	49945660	R1JRPCYPX47BAX	1556611854	316948700	Roses for Mama (Women of the West)	Books	5	11	11	N	N	A Tender, Moving Story	Roses for Mama is the story of five siblings left on their own after their parents die a short time apart.  The older siblings Thomas and Angela take on the roles as parents to their younger brother and sisters.  Thomas tends to the fields while Angela does the running of the house.  Times aren't always easy though as Angela realizes Thomas might soon take a wife and she'll be left on her own to deal with the children.  Angela finds herself in a bit of a situation herself when she attracts the attention of a neighbor.<br />This story was very touching and moving.  The characters were so real that the reader can't help but feel sorry for them and want so badly for them to succeed.  Angela tries so hard to teach her younger siblings the lessons their mom taught her before her death.  Readers without a doubt can identify with this young girl who is forced into adulthood and has the challenge of being a mother to three growing children.  This book is so well written, as are all Janette Oke books, that is is easy to understand the ups and downs of daily life for these characters.  This book was so easy to read that I was able to read it in a day.<br />It is great to know there are authors who write books about everyday people doing everyday things.  This would be a great book for anyone from grandmother to granddaughter.  It has likable characters, values, and great settings.  A great book to read and share.	2004-06-17
US	49945660	R39RE22GNX7DZA	0446353930	626455459	Best Kept Secrets	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Best Kept Secrets	Alex Gaither, Assistant District Attorney, talks her boss into letting her go back to her mother's childhood town to reopen the case of her mother's murder.  Alex believes the wrong man was convicted of the crime and she wants to find the real killer and bring him to justice.   On her return to Purcell, Texas she meets up with the other three main characters in the story.  Angus Minton and his son Junior, one of her mother's close friends, and Reede Lambert, the Sheriff of the county and her mother's other close friend.  Alex suspects one of these three is the real murderer and she wants the truth about her mother's murder.  These three men, all influential in the area, have many secrets to keep and do not want to help Alex in any way.  In fact, they want her to hightail it back to Austin where she belongs.  Alex won't give up and begins the investigation into the murder.  Secrets will be unveiled and lives changed forever as she searches for the truth.<br />This was a good book with an excellent storyline.  Ms. Brown delivers twists and turns with each chapter.  The reader is never bored with the story because it's constantly changing.  Just when you think you know who the murderer is something happens to make you change your mind.  The characters are somewhat believable.  One can understand Alex's need to find her mother's killer and bring them to justice.  One aspect of the book I disliked was Alex's attraction to Junior and Reede.  These men are old enough to be her father and whom she suspects killed her mother yet she is attracted to them.  This aspect fits into the storyline to help develop the plot but I just found it too weird.  The ending of the book is weak too.  With the whole story being what it is the ending seemed to be a let down.  I was a little disappointed in the ending Ms. Brown chose.<br />It took me a little over two weeks to read this book because I was sick and couldn't read much.  I feel though if I hadn't been sick I would have read this book in one to two days.  It was hard to put down because I wanted to find out who the killer was.  This is definitely a book I would recommend.  It's a great mystery/romance to keep you on the edge of your seat.	2004-06-08
US	49945660	R2ZPFAII399DFX	074345779X	538172154	Crown Jewel	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A Jewel of a Novel	Movie star great Ricky Lam is a recovering alcoholic and drug addict.  He is clean for fifteen years when at a party one night he has a drink.  He awakens the next morning feeling regretful for his relapse.  His day only gets worse when he arrives at his movie set for the last scene only to find out his beloved brother Philip, Philly, has been tragically killed in an accident.  Ricky's life is never to be the same as he realizes the brother he loved and wanted approval from was not the brother he knew.  Philly had a lifetime of secrets that slip out slowly page by page changing the lives of everyone that knew him.  And even some who didn't really know him.<br />Crown Jewel is an excellent book.  It has everything in it...money, tragedy, scandal, secrets, power, love.  The storyline is wonderful and the characters real.  Just when the reader thinks all the secrets have been revealed and there's nothing else to discover some new piece of the puzzle is discovered.  Ricky's character is very well developed and written.  The supporting characters are a very intrical part of the story.  <br />Everything and everyone in this story blends together to create an excellent book.  There is just the right mix of suspense and romance.  A book to read and keep on the shelf to read again to or loan to a friend.  An excellent addition to any book collection.	2004-05-25
US	49945660	R2YACU2D5N4BX1	0671027077	5562192	Far Harbor	Books	5	2	3	N	N	A Wonderful Story	After her divorce from &quot;the weasel&quot;, Savannah Townsend returns to her childhood home in  Coldwater Cove, Washington.  She decides she would like to turn a dream into reality and buys the Far Harbor lighthouse and begins to transform it into a bed and breakfast. Savannah has the support of her family: grandmother and retired doctor Ida, her eccentric mother Lilith, and her step-sister lawyer, Raine.  These four women and strong willed and stick together when the going gets tough.  Events will happen that will slow down Savannah's progress on  her lighthouse but will bring the family even closer together.<br />Far Harbor was a great book.  The characters are so real they seem as if they could actually be your neighbors.  Their lives are that of the everyday person.  The setting was great and the town seemed like Anytown, USA.  The romantic storyline with Savannah and Dan was even written in to seem natural and real. It is so nice to read of people falling in love without hating each other first as they do in most romance novels.<br />This was my first book by this author and it won't be my last.  Far Harbor reminded me of books written by Debbie Macomber.  Common, everyday people living their lives in the best way they can.  This was a great book and should be shared among family and friends.	2004-05-09
US	49945660	R2D3VI403GNJGG	0380802325	85428738	Suddenly You	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Fantastic!	Amanda Briars is about to turn 30. She gets herself an unusual birthday gift--a man.  She has decided to buy herself a man for the night of her birthday. She falls under the spell of the man that shows up only to find out later that he is Jack Devlin--a very successful publisher who wants her working for him!  Amanda is faced with the decision of whether or not to work for the man she despises yet is attracted to.<br />Suddenly You is a fantastic read.  It has very likable characters in it who aren't the usual rich nobility of London.  The characters in this book are authors and publishers and the like.  The story moves along at a nice fast pace leaving the reader no time at all to become bored.  I thoroughly enjoyed every aspect of this book.<br />This was my first book by this author but I'm sure not the last.  This is a great book that could possibly be read in one setting--it is that good and that enjoyable.  A very pleasurable read to be read again and again.	2004-05-03
US	49945660	R3K5Z6UDP4KMMI	044661226X	996861700	The Road Home	Books	5	4	4	N	N	The Road Home--An Excellent Novel	Can Lily Holt's life be more of a mess?  The divorced mother of out-of-control teenager Riley has moved back to her childhood home of Glens Crossing, Indiana.  She has moved herself and her son back to her childhood home to get him away from his grandparents in Chicago.  Lily is afraid their interferring in Riley's life will do him more harm than good.  With his dad in rehab for alcohol Lily is on her own raising her son.  But the quiet, peaceful life she is looking for in Glens Crossing eludes her when her son gets in trouble and she is reunited with someone from her past.  Lily is faced with her past and trying to keep her son's future positive and trouble-free.<br />The Road Home was the second Susan Crandall book I read.  It was very enjoyable and entertaining. There is something for everyone in this book: money, lies, secrets, love. The storyline of the book was excellent and the characters very life-like. The setting of this book was good too.  Ms. Crandall does an excellent job of portraying Indiana the way it is.  Being from Indiana myself I appreciate this.  She really paid attention to detail.  Especially when she has to run an errand she doesn't want the entire town to know about.  Living in a small town has it's disadvantages as well as perks.<br />The Road Home is a book to be read and enjoyed.  Ms. Crandall writes about small town life with characters who seem to be real.  An excellent novel to recommend!	2004-05-03
US	49945660	R1RE1ND9ZBWK05	055356773X	500050519	The Cereal Murders (Goldy Culinary Mysteries, Book 3)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A Tasty Read	When Goldy Bear, owner of Goldilocks Catering, caters a college prep dinner at Elk Park Prep school she gets more than she bargained for when after the dinner she finds the murdered body of the school's valedictorian.  Things only get stranger from that moment on as Goldy the caterer tries to solve the mystery and keep up with the threats to her and her family.<br />The Cereal Murders was a good read.  It is suspenseful and full of  mystery right up to the end.  The characters of Goldy, Arch, Julian, and Tom are very well developed and connected.  They seem like people next door.  They are very believable and dimensional.  The storyline was good and moved along at a fast pace.  It was easy to keep reading because the events and happenings flowed easily from one to another.<br />This was my second Goldy book and I was not disappointed.  A good book to read for the mystery lover!	2004-03-24
US	49945660	RY3AMLED4GRJP	0743410262	327700345	Educating Caroline (Sonnet Books)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A Fun, Entertaining Read	When Caroline Linford walks into a room and finds her fiance in a rather compromising situation with another woman she doesn't know what to do.  That is until she meets Braden Granville, the Lothario of London, who just happens to be the fiance of the woman Caroline's fiance was with.  Wow, what a tangled web that's been weaved.  An idea springs to mind for Caroline.  She wants to keep her man (she thinks) and keep  him honest.  She has decided she will have Braden teach her the art of lovemaking!  With this plan set into action the reader is in for quite a journey.<br />This book was fun, witty and very entertaining. This was my first Cabot read and I would definitely read another by this author.  This book takes the act of cheating to a whole new level.  The characters are enjoyable and likable (with the exception of Lady Jackie).  The story is good in the fact there is no damsel in distress.  The damsel in this book is a take action kind of gal.  She isn't wishy-washy like so many Victorian romance women.  Braden is also a very likable person and soon the reader finds themselves rooting for these two as if they're old friends of the characters.<br />To sum it up this book is charming, funny, witty, and most of all fun to read.  A must read for any day!	2004-03-07
US	49945660	R1TSYEB03RAC1C	0446612251	521018072	Back Roads (Warner Forever)	Books	4	12	12	N	N	An Entertaining Debut Novel	Leigh Mitchell, the sheriff in Glens Crossing, Indiana, is fast approaching her thirtieth birthday.  She would like to make changes in her life before it passes her by.  She is not sure how to make those changes though until she meets Will Scott, a stranger passing through town.  She meets him at the festival talking to Brittany Wilson, a town teenager.   Leigh and Will ride the Ferris Wheel together then afterwards head to the local bar where they dance together, creating a scene for the townsfolk.  Leigh believes  Will could be the answer to her discovering a new self.  A few days later when tragedy strikes the small town and Will is the prime suspect Leigh is torn between believing her heart and her experience in law enforcement.<br />Back Roads was a good book.  This debut novel by Susan Crandall was well written with an excellent storyline and very believable characters.  The story moves along at a good pace (with the exception of a few parts) and keeps teasing you until the end.  Just when you think you know who Will Scott is Ms. Crandall throws you off course with suspicion. <br />I was pleased with the detail in this book.  Even though it is a work of fiction the author included some &quot;true&quot; details.  She talks of Bloomington, IN and the Hoosier National Forrest.  Also included was the mention of the tv station from Indianapolis, channel 6.  These details being included made the story more authentic, especially to someone from Indiana.<br />All in all this was a good story to read.  It has romance and suspense well blended to make a very entertaining read.  With more books like Back Roads this author is well on her way to being a well-known bestseller.	2004-02-16
US	49945660	R1UE522L4LTYDN	0425193020	972028995	Coming Home (Berkley Sensation)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Coming Home	Coming Home is the story of Olivia Halsey and her two friends Lexie James and Claire Fitzgerald.  Olivia's childhood home in Bishop, Rhode Island has been vandalized.  She goes back home to Bishop to repair the house.  Claire and Lexie go back to Bishop to help Olivia with the repairs and to have some time together.  Lexie is coming home with the issues of her job and the men in her life.  Claire is coming home with the thoughts that her marriage is in trouble.  Her husband is more married to his job than to her.  Olivia is coming home to repair her childhood home and to also get away from Daniel, the man whom she loves but doesn't want to marry.  Each of the three friends is at a place in their lives where they are unsure of what to do.  They will draw upon their friendship to help see them through their troubles and indecision.<br />Coming Home was an OK book.  It is a book about the friendship between women and also about the relationships between women and men.  All three women have their own set of troubles but the fact that they give advice (whether wanted or not) ties everything together.  These are three women who are leading very different lives but manage to stay friends through thick and thin. <br />The characters in this book were very dimensional.  They all have problems and are very believable and real.  The secondary characters all bring something to the storyline of this book.  The storyline itself was good and well written.  Dee Holmes did a good job of bringing together three different storylines and meshing them together into one story.  A good book to read!	2004-01-31
US	49945660	R236LMALWQDOPF	155166710X	723001080	A Summer Affair (MIRA)	Books	3	3	4	N	N	A Summer Affair	Blue Calhoun is a widowed doctor who is trying to raise his somewhat rebellious son.  Since he doesn't believe he is raising his son successfully since the death of his mother, Blue tends to the poor and underprivleged of San Francisco.  One night on his way home he rescues a young boy from a couple of crimps.  The boy is injured and as thanks to Blue holds him at gunpoint demanding Blue to fix him up.  As Blue gets underway to patch up the young boy he is surprised to learn that the boy is actually a young woman.  Isabel Fish Wooten is her name and she will turn Blue's life upside down!  She is as fiesty and full of life as Blue is withdrawn and brooding.  Can the lady of adventure Isabel stay put in one place for more than a season?  And can Blue open his heart and take a chance to love again?  The summer is just beginning for these two.<br />A Summer Affair was an average read.  It didn't have all of the excitement I thought it might.  I picked up this book because the cover was appealing and the title caught my eye.  This book however, didn't meet my expectations. It seemed to move at a slow pace.  It took forever for anything to really happen.  When the story finally got going it was a good read.  It just took too long to get involved.  I believe this story could have been told and been a much better read if it had been shorter.  There was just too much &quot;filler&quot; in the pages.  The storyline was good and the characters were likable and believeable.  This book was just too long.<br />To sum it up, I would borrow this book from the library instead of buying it.  Not a keeper in my opinion.	2004-01-25
US	49945660	R30P2WH43ALKUJ	1551669447	744941842	The Christmas Basket	Books	3	13	13	N	N	The Christmas Basket	The Christmas Basket is the story of Noelle McDowell.  She is returning to her childhood home for the first time since her broken engagement to Thom Sutton.  The two were going to sneak off to get married because of a feud that had driven apart the once close family.  The marriage never happened though because of  events that took place that long ago night.  This causees Noelle to face going home with dread and trepidation.  Hoping to avoid seeing Thom during her stay at her parents house, Noelle comes face to face with Thom on the plane home.  Neither is happy to see each other as memeories of their past come back full force.  Can they resolve their problems from the past and become friends this Christmas?  Will their feuding mothers find peace with each other while filling  Christmas baskets?<br />The Christmas basket is a short feel-good Christmas story.  It is a quick read with plenty of laughs.  The mothers and their antics to outperform each other are hilarious.  They were more fun to read about than the two main characters.  This story is very easy to read and can be read in an afternoon or evening.  <br />Debbie Macomber is great at what she does.  This is another good story with characters you can relate to and like.  A book to get you in the Christmas mood.	2003-12-18
US	49945660	R2ZJWA43WIMBK7	0312986343	631084691	Visions of Sugar Plums (A Stephanie Plum Holiday Novel)	Books	2	5	6	N	N	Not Your Usual Stephanie	Visions of Sugar Plums finds Stephanie in search of Sandy Claws, an elderly man who runs a toy shop.  Sounds simple enough, right?  Enter Diesel, a mysterious man who &quot;pops&quot; into Stephanie's kitchen.  With his help Stephanie is on the case to find Sandy.  Oh, did I mention Sandy has workers in his toy shop?  And they're elves???<br />This book was a major disappointment.   A big fan of the Stephanie Plum series I found this book to be boring.  It didn't have all the usual characters and the ones that did make an appearance were in the book such a short time.  This book seemed to be written in a hurry and not well created. I was in a hurry for it to be over so I could read something else.  I kept hoping that it would get better but that just didn't happen. <br />I would recommend skipping this Stephanie novel.  It is a waste of time.  Not worth buying or spending the time reading.	2003-12-18
US	49945660	RWY43TT83LZCR	1586608029	123615867	Lancaster Brides: A Merry Heart/Looking for a Miracle/Plain and Fancy/The Hope Chest (Inspirational Romance Collection)	Books	5	48	49	N	N	Fantastic Reading	Lancaster Brides is a set of four stories about Amish life and loves.  The first story is about Miriam, an Amish woman who has had her heart broken and doesn't trust men.  The second story is about Rebekah, Miriam's niece.  Rebekah is in a wheelchair because of a childhood accident.  She must come to terms with her disability and risk her heart at finding love. (This story was my favorite!)  The third story is about Laura Meade, a fancy woman, who goes to college in Lancaster and meets an Amish man that she wants to be with for the rest of her life.  Can this spoiled worldly woman find happiness living a plain life?  And finally, the fourth story is about Rachel, Rebekah's daughter.  When her sister Anna gives Rachel her old hope chest will it give her hope that she can find love with the boy she dreams about?<br />These were four exciting and interesting stories.  I don't usually read multiple-story books because I think the stories are too short and choppy. This book is definitely not that. Each story is well written and complete.  Having Amish ancesters I found this book was very well researched and very respectful of the Amish.  It was a great insight into the lives of these people who live their lives in such a plain and simple way.  These stories will touch your heart and leave you feeling like you are neighbors with each of the characters in the book.  Wanda Brunstetter did a wonderful job writing each of these stories.  It is so good to read books about people who seem real and dimensional.  I found this book and each of it's stories very refreshing to read.  It is great to read a book without a lot of sex or violence in it and to read about people who have morals.  This book is great for a young girl or teenager to read as well as a mother or grandmother. <br />Lancaster Brides is excellent reading with great characters and heartwarming stories.  I can easily see this book as being passed down from mother to daughter as four treasured stories of love and happiness.  I have loaned this book to my mother hoping she enjoys the stories as much as I have.  This book is deserving of more than five stars and is a book to keep and read again and again!	2003-11-27
US	49945660	R35FPASR6RZU9Y	0385336306	915295648	Safe Harbour	Books	4	15	16	N	N	Safe Harbour	Ted Mackenzie and his bi-polar son Chad were killed in a plane crash nine months ago.  Left behind to pick up the pieces are Ted's wife Ophelie and daughter Pip.  Ophelie is in a severe depression and can hardly take care of Pip except for the basics.  Ophelie leases a house at Safe Harbour for the summer and while there Pip befriends artist and recluse Matt Bowles.  They become fast friends despite a difference in age.  Matt is suffering from the loss of his children through a divorce.  Ophelie and Matt meet and although they don't hit it off at the beginning they become good friends.  Matt becomes a pillar of support for Ophelie and Pip as they go through the one year anniversary of the death of their husband/father and son/brother.  Through their friendship the wounds begin to heal and they begin to move on with their lives.<br />Safe Harbour was an OK read.  It wasn't the best Danielle Steel book I've read.  This book seemed more thought about than some of her previous works.  The storyline was good and the characters were likeable.  The story-telling in itself seemed to be choppy.  The story would move along at a pretty good pace and then seem to get stuck with remembering what had already been stated.  This is the same repetitiveness as in Steel's more current work.  I must say that this book shocked me when a little over halfway through there is a surprising and shocking twist to the story.  This twist had me rereading the pages to make sure I was reading it right.   This was a very important part of the story and I was just amazed at how well written this plot twist was.  I must say I was speechless when I got to this part of the story.  <br />Safe Harbour seemed to have some of the quality of the older Danielle Steel books.  Again, the only part I didn't like was the repeated facts that were written every few pages or at least once a chapter.  I would have given the book five stars if it wasn't for the repitition.  All in all a good read with a good ending.	2003-11-19
US	49945660	R39ZWM5ZG5IH6Z	0312980140	198558647	Seven Up (Stephanie Plum, No. 7) (Stephanie Plum Novels)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Stephanie's at it again!	Seven Up, the seventh Stephanie Plum novel, finds Stephanie in pursuit of Eddie Dechooch, an elderly man wanted for cigarette smuggling.  Eddie's old and can't see but that doesn't slow him down.  Stephanie comes close to catching him many times but can never make her capture.  Sidekick Lula is on the job with Stephanie and together they can't catch &quot;Choochy&quot;.  When Stephanie's Beevis and Butthead-like friends Dougie and Mooner disappear she starts thinking they are somehow mixed up with Eddie and calls in Ranger for backup.  And just to make Stephanie's life more wacky, she tells her family she is engaged to Joe Morelli.  Plans for a wedding gown and reception hall add to Stephanie's stressful, but funny, life.<br />This book was excellent.  The characters are so funny.  Lula, Grandma Mazur, Mooner, and Bob the dog add so much comedy to the book.  I once again found myself laughing out loud at the antics of the characters, Stephanie and Joe included.  Stephanie's parents also make several appearances in the book and this just adds to the hysterical comedy.  The mystery side of the book was well written too.  It is mixed just right with the comedy to deliver a fun, entertaining read.  Each Stephanie Plum novel is better than the last.  Just when you think nothing else crazy can happen in Stephanie's life something does.  <br />From a carrying a pig's heart in a cooler to riding on a Harley hog with Lula, this book is a blast to read!	2003-11-08
US	49945660	R1404T6SEKKB6C	1551667290	913471305	Mesmerized	Books	5	6	6	N	N	A Mesmerizing Read	Olivia Moreland, of the mad Morelands, runs a business of disproving mediums.  Her grandmother has told her she has the &quot;second sight&quot;.  Olivia decides to disprove mediums instead of believing she herself is one of them.  While at a seance she meets Stephen, Lord St. Leger.  He later requests her help in disproving a medium he believes is scamming his mother.  He invites Olivia to the family home, Blackhope, to attend seances being held by the medium Madame Valenskaya.  The Madame tells his mother that she can communicate with the spirit of Stephen's dead brother.  Madame Valenskaya also says there are many restless spirits in the house.  Strange things begin to happen around the house.  Olivia and Stephen are right in the middle of the strange happenings. They even begin to share dreams of previous occupants of Blackhope.  With everything going on they are having a hard time disproving and disbelieving the medium.  They set out as a team to solve the mystery about Blackhope.<br />Mesmerized was an incredible read.  It was exciting and romantic.  Olivia and Stephen, though not friends at first meeting, soon become partners to solve the mystery before them.  The storyline of this book was excellent and the characters very believable.  There is just the right mixture of romance, suspense and intrigue to make the book exiciting and hard to put down.  There are enough shady characters to keep the reader guessing as to who is behind the strange events.  This book was a great read.  Candace Camp has once again written an excellent book of love and suspense.  A well written read from first page to last.	2003-11-02
US	49945660	R1S0VGR0P2SJXM	0312976275	963436946	Hot Six (Stephanie Plum, No. 6) (Stephanie Plum Novels)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Stephanie's back and sassy as ever	Homer Ramos has been killed and the building he was in set on fire.  The accused is none other than Ranger!  When Stephanie's cousin Vinnie tries to assign this FTA to Stephanie she refuses big time.  No way will she even attempt to bring in Ranger.  The file is then given to Stephanie's rival, Joyce Barnhardt.  Stephanie has other bad guys to catch though and somehow becomes employed by Ranger.  She also has two new roomates when Grandma Mazur moves in after a disagreement with Stephanie's parents, and when she is conned into &quot;dog sitting&quot; cop Brian Simon's dog while he's &quot;away&quot;.  The Golden Retriver, Bob, becomes part of Stephanie's wacky family, and wins the hearts of the reader.  <br />This book was awesome.  Stephanie is as sassy as ever, and Grandma Mazur is as wild and loveable as expected.  The addition of Bob to the mix was entertaining and made the book fun to read.  There were also two new off the wall characters--Mooner and Dougie, a.k.a The Dealer.  These two seemed to be molded after Beevis and Butthead.  They were likable in their own odd way.  And of course, no Stephanie Plum novel would be complete without the irresistable Joe Morelli and the dangerous Ranger.<br />The plot of this story was great.  It was well written and moved along at a fast and steady pace.  There is enough action and laughs to keep the reader turning pages as fast as they can.  The characters are all charming and quirky, if not a little (ok, maybe a lot)mixed up in the head.  This just adds to the entertainment of the book and makes it more fun to read.<br />Also, the prologue of Hot Six answers the mystery at the end of High Five.  If you've read High Five and wondered about the mystery man at the end, the beginning of Hot Six will end the suspense.<br />Hot Six is a fun, wacky, crazy, entertaining read.  Packed with laughs and chills it is a book to recommend.  A keeper by far.	2003-10-19
US	49945660	R2EC8AL5DQ8C84	0380780747	232060645	Splendid (Avon Historical Romance)	Books	3	3	5	N	N	OK but not Splendid	American Emma Dunster is sent to London by her father to visit with her aunt, uncle, and cousins.  Emma wants to stay in Boston and learn all the aspects of her father's shipping business, which she intends to take over.  Her father realizes people won't want to do business with a company ran by a woman so he sends her off to London for a distraction.<br />On the day of her introduction to the ton, Emma and her cousin Belle decide to sneak down to the kitchen so they won't have to arrange flowers.  Once in the kitchen, Emma decides to run an errand for cook.  Dressed in maids garb, she runs the errand and on the way back saves the live of a little boy, who happens to be the nephew of the Duke of Ashborne.  Emma is knocked unconscious and wakes to find herself in a carriage with the Duke.  They are both attracted to each other instantly.  The Duke thinks Emma is a maid, not a member of the ton.  He will find this out later that night at the ball.  From then on he tries to catch her for himself.  Of course he doesn't realize this until everyone tells him he's in love with her.<br />This book seemed to be a typical historical romance.  The characters were typical of most romances.  He doesn't want to marry except to obtain an heir. She doesn't want to marry either, but knows that when she marries she wants it to be a love match, not a marriage of convenience.  I found the &quot;romantic scenes&quot; were rather routine.  In fact, I could have read this book without reading the love scenes.  They just did not get my attention.  And as in most romance novels of this type there is the usual kidnapping.  I would love to read historical romances where there is no kidnappings.<br />All in all this was an OK book to read.  It was a fast, easy read.  The characters for the most part were likeable, not stuffy.  The plot seemed good.  It was just too routine.  I have read &quot;To Sir Phillip, with Love&quot; by Julia Quinn and liked it much better.	2003-10-15
US	49945660	R3SEN55MCIS41T	0312971346	442694342	High Five (Stephanie Plum, No. 5) (Stephanie Plum Novels)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Five Stars for High Five!	High Five is the fifth book in the Stephanie Plum series.  It does not disappoint!  There is enough mystery and fun to keep the reader entertained for hours.<br />Stephanie is struggling to pay the bills in High Five as there are no FTAs to apprehend.  Her Uncle Fred has disappeared and out of loyalty and pressure from her family she is trying to find him.  Since this isn't a paying job she becomes part of Ranger's work crew and does various jobs for him.  She has developed an attraction to Ranger and isn't sure this is a good thing.  Her relationship with Joe Morelli is currently off.  And as is things aren't complicated enough, Benito Ramirez, the psychopathic rapist/killer, is out of prison on parole and is after Stephanie.  Just another day in the life of the &quot;bombshell bounty hunter&quot;.<br />High Five is an entertaining read.  It has enough mystery to make it interesting and enough comedy to keep the reader laughing out loud.  After each Stephnie Plum novel I read I wonder how the author could write anything else that would top it but Janet Evanovich does.  She manages to keep the reader interested in Stephanie and her quirky family and friends.  This book has all the characters we have come to love in it and also two new ones, Bunchy and Briggs, that kept it fresh.  The plot was excellent.  The reader is kept wondering what happened to Uncle Fred all the way to the end.  And the ending itself is a mystery.  Just who exactly came over to give their opinion on the little black dress?  I thought this was an excellent way to end the book.<br />High Five is an excellent read that will keep the reader entertained and laughing for hours!  A must-read book!	2003-10-08
US	49945660	R2XCMNC9LENKB1	0312966970	935167398	Four to Score (Stephanie Plum, No. 4) (Stephanie Plum Novels)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A Definite Score	Four to Score once again takes us on a bounty hunting adventure with Stephanie Plum and company.  This time Stephanie's FTA (failure to appear) is Maxine Nowicki.  Maxine is charged with stealing her ex-boyfriend's car.  The ex-boyfriend, Eddie Kuntz, also hires Stephanie to find some love letters he wrote Maxine that he wants back.  Let the treasure hunt begin as Stephanie and her crew of wacky bounty hunter wannabes try to track down Maxine and the love letters!  <br />This book was excellent.  By far the best of the Stephanie Plum novels I've read so far.  This book is non-stop action from beginning to end. There are the old, lovable characters Lula, Grandma Mazur, and Joe Morelli. Also in this book we meet Sally Sweet-a cross dressing drag queen who decodes the clues Maxine leaves for Eddie.  Sally is a riot and adds color to the pages. Also trying to track down Maxine is Joyce Barnhardt, the woman who Stephanie found on her dining room table with her then husband Dickie Orr.  The competition between Stephanie and Joyce was a great addition to the story.  <br />The plot of this book was excellent.   It was written well and kept up a fast pace.  There were no boring parts in this book.  The author did an excellent job keeping the reader turning the pages.  There's plenty of action and fun scenes mixed together.  This made the book fun to read and also effortless to read.<br />I just could not put this book down.  I had to find out what was going to happen next.  Just when you think everything that could possibly happen to Stephanie has happened you are surprised by the next event.  This keeps the book entertaining to read.  This is a must-read Stephanie Plum book!	2003-10-05
US	49945660	R2EHZOTXKOOK2L	0312966091	809706185	Three to Get Deadly (Stephanie Plum, No. 3) (Stephanie Plum Novels)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Third Stephanie is a charm	In Three to Get Deadly the reader once again is back in Trenton, NJ with Stephanie Plum, bounty hunter. This time Stephanie is after the saintly Uncle Mo.  Moses Bedemier, candy store owner and all around great guy is a FTA (failure to appear).  Stephanie has the task of bringing him in.  This time though, no one wants to give up information on Uncle Mo.  And as if having no leads is bad enough, dead bodies start popping up everywhere around Stephanie.  Stephanie tries to tie it all together with the help of Ranger and Lula and the man she loves to hate, Joe Morelli.<br />Three to Get Deadly was an interesting read.  I must say that after reading this book it was my favorite Plum novel.  It had less comedy than the first two.  There is still some funny and clever scenes but there aren't as many laugh-out-loud scenes as in the first two.  This makes the book seem more like a mystery than a comedy.  But by no means is this a keep you on the edge of your seat mystery.  This is an easy to read &quot;fun&quot; mystery.  Stephanie can manage to get herself into any number of scrapes and situations.  Just when you think nothing else can happen to her sure enough something does.  This keeps the book fresh and entertaining.<br />The plot of this book was better than the previous Plum novels.  It seemed to be well thought out and written well.  There was a real mystery with Uncle Mo.  Stephanie seems to be more serious in this book, which allowed it to take on a more mysterious mood.<br />Three to Get Deadly is a fun, entertaining mystery.  It will keep you entertained from first page to last.  Definitely one to recommend!	2003-10-04
US	49945660	R357GNCO9DTWV5	0380820854	391607547	To Sir Phillip, With Love (Bridgerton Series, Book 5)	Books	3	5	6	N	N	A Pleasurable Read	To Sir Phillip, With Love is the story of Eloise Bridgerton and Sir Phillip Crane.  The two meet by way of correspondence when Phillips wife, who is also Eloise's cousin, Marina dies after trying to kill herself.  Eloise and Phillip write several letters to each other over the course of almost a year.  Phillip then asks Eloise to visit him sometime because he would like to see if they'd \\"suit\\" and possibly marry.  What Eloise doesn't know is that Phillip really doesn't want a wife, he just wants a mother for his eight year old twins who are completely out of control.  Eloise goes to Phillip's house where her family finds her after just a few days.  The two are forced to marry to avoid scandal.  Neither completely happy about the situation.<br />This novel was well written and kept up a steady pace.  Much to my delight there were no kidnapping scenes which are common in Regency Era romances.  The characters were likable and seemed to be well developed.  Eloise wasn't just a delicate maiden who batted her eyelashes. She was a woman who knew what she wanted and was out to find her happiness.  Phillip wasn't a strong man who thought the world revolved around him.  Phillip, in fact, seemed to be a little dazed at times by what was going on around him.  The storyline was good and was well thought out.  There were no rough spots in this book.  The story flowed from beginning to end.  The author had a story to tell and told it with a purpose.<br />This was the first Bridgerton novel I've read and I'm sure it won't be the last.  If the others are as well-written as this it will be a pleasure to read them all.	2003-09-27
US	49945660	R2WQDN45808ZYS	0671001795	876638734	Two for the Dough (Stephanie Plum, No. 2) (Stephanie Plum Novels)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Two for the Dough	Two for the Dough is the second installment in the Stephanie Plum series.  This book is once again set in the burg of Trenton, NJ.  This time around Stephanie is chasing bail jumper Kenny Mancuso (who is also Joe Morelli's distant cousin).  In what should be an easy catch and easy money for Stephanie turns into three hundred pages of comedy, mystery, and lust.<br />Two for the Dough is pretty much the same as One for the Money.  Stephanie is lusting after Joe Morelli in a love/hate relationship.  They are partners in trying to find the bad guy while still not trusting each other and working against the other. Ranger, the likeable bounty hunter from the first Plum novel makes brief appearances in this book.  Grandma Mazur is getting herself into all sorts of mischief, which makes the book good to read.  It is so fun to read about her and the trouble she can get herself and Stephanie into.  This book also has Lula from the first novel in it.  She is back and has changed for the better.  There are of course new characters to this book.  There is Spiro Stiva, the mortician; Moogey Bues, the mechanic; and of course the most evil of characters Kenny Mancuso--weapons smuggler, and possible murderer.<br />Two for the Dough is a light, entertaining read.  The language is very crude at times as is the humor.  This is a book about your not-everday bounty hunter and family and friends/foes.  Stephanie gets herself into scrapes that are pretty much along the lines of the first Plum book.  I gave this book three stars because it didn't seem to have much originality other than the missing weapons storyline.  This book just seemed like more of what was already in the first book.  I am planning on reading all of the books in this series and hoping that they aren't all the same!  This is an OK read for a rainy day or if you need a good laugh.	2003-09-17
US	49945660	R2PJH920NJFD1H	0061009059	830758196	One for the Money (Stephanie Plum, No. 1) (Stephanie Plum Novels)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A Laugh out Loud good read	One for the Money introduces us to Stephanie Plum and her outrageous family and friends.  Stephanie is an out of work lingerie buyer.  To pay her bills she becomes a bounty hunter for her cousin Vinny.  He has given her one week to bring in Joseph Morelli-her pay, $10,000.  Stephanie tries to learn the tricks of her new trade and catch Morelli in her one week time so she can earn her money and get her life back on track.  Along the way the reader is in for one heck of a good, laugh-filled ride.<br />This book is hilarious.  I found myself literally laughing out loud.  Stephanie falls on her face quite a few times (not literally) and has to pick herself back up.  It is so funny to read about the situations she gets herself into.  Her family is a real hoot too, especially Grandma Mazur.  She definitely added some laughter to the story.<br />One for the money is a good, light read.  It is a little crude at times with some in your face situations and language.  With that aside though this book is very entertaining and easy to read.  Not a book for kids though.	2003-09-11
US	49945660	R5QQ0DECO96X2	1551667193	313224145	311 Pelican Court (Cedar Cove, Book 3)	Books	5	29	30	N	N	3rd visit to Cedar Cove was great!	311 Pelican Court, the third installment in the Cedar Cove series, was an excellent read.  The family at this address are Rosie and Zach Cox with their children Allison and Eddie.  Rosie and Zach are ordered through their divorce to let the children stay at the house and they are to find alternate housing on the days they don't have custody.  This way the kids aren't going from one house to the other. They stay put and it's Zach and Rosie moving back and forth constantly.  <br />This book isn't just about the Cox family though.  All the characters from the previous book are in this one too.  They all have their own problems and situations to get through.  There is also some new characters added in and some characters from the previous book that play a bigger role in this book.  This keeps the book entertaining and moving.<br />Debbie Macomber writes storylines everyone can believe.  There is the Olivia, Jack, Stan \\"love triangle\\", Grace Sherman recovering from the death of her ex-husband Dan.  Also the death of the mystery man at the bed and breakfast.  Maryellen and Jon play a role in this book also trying to get along after the birth of their daughter.  There is also bit in Grace's storyline involving Olivia's brother that is very interesting. I can't say more or I'll ruin the book.<br />311 Pelican Court is a good book filled with characters that could be your next door neighbors.  There is enough going on in this small town that you will not be able to put this book down until you've read the last word.  A definite must read!	2003-09-04
US	49945660	R3QUD3JMGR71YY	155166609X	985705642	Deep in the Valley (Grace Valley Trilogy, Book 1)	Books	4	39	42	N	N	Come to Grace Valley for a visit	Deep in the Valley is the story of the townspeople of Grace Valley and also the surrounding area.  The main character is June Hudson, the town doctor.  June is in her thirties and is beginning to really think about having her own family.  Surrounding June is a whole town of friends and family.  All of whom know everybody else's business.<br />Deep in the Valley is written much in the same way as Debbie Macomber novels.  There is a whole town of people with real life issues to learn about and keep track of.  While there is the main character of June, there is also many secondary characters who get their fair share of space in the book.  At times though it seems as if there are too many characters, since it's hard to keep everyone straight.  Eventually though the reader prevails and the characters become like family, friends, and neighbors. There are characters to like and dislike.<br />This book was easy to read, though at times seemed choppy.  Again, to compare with a D. Macomber novel which goes easily from scene to scene and character to character, Deep in the Valley seems to at times jerk from one character to the next and also from one storyline to the next.  The book seems to lack a smooth trangression at times, making it less enjoyable to read.<br />Overall, Deep in the Valley is a good book.  It's a nice way to spend a few hours meeting new people and learning about their lives. Not a romance, yet still a good read.	2003-07-30
US	49945660	R5XJZ8JC7NAMO	0345440404	812378570	Summer Moon	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Another Great Landis Novel	Summer Moon is the story of Kate Wittington, a woman who at the age of nine was dropped off at an orphanage by her prostitute mother. When Kate is twenty-nine the orphanage closes and she must decide what she's to do with her life.  She answers an ad in the newspaper for a woman to be a mail-order bride.  She takes a chance and answers the ad and is the lucky woman who is chosen to be the wife of Reed Benton.  When she arrives in Texas she finds out the shocking truth.  She married Reed Benton by proxy but he knows nothing of their marriage.  It seems they were both tricked by Reed's father, Reed Benton Sr., a devious and scheming man who devised a plan to get his son back home to the Lone Star Ranch.  When Reed Jr. returns to the ranch, wounded, and with his son who has been raised by the Commanche for the past six years he finds out he's married to Kate.  Since he's wounded and can't care for his son he hires Kate on as his housekeeper and caregiver to his son Daniel.  <br />This book was very entertaining and very easy to read.  The characters were very life-like and well developed.  Every character in the book has a purpose and they serve their purpose well. Ms. Landis seems to have thought out her character before she began writing.  Even the secondary characters are well rounded.  They all add to the story in their own way.<br />Summer Moon moves along at a steady pace. Again, the storyline seems to have been well thought out before the book was started.  The author clearly had every scene planned out and this makes the book very enjoyable to read.  The book doesn't seem choppy or hurriedly put together.  It just seems like a well planned book about everyday characters on the Texas frontier.<br />Summer Moon is an excellent read.  I was able to finish this book in just two days.  I couldn't put this book down.  I wanted to find out what was going to happen but at the end didn't want the book to end.  I felt like I personally knew the characters and could feeltheir emotions.  Summer Moon is a great book and will make a great addition to any romance lover's or Western romance lover's library.	2003-07-09
US	49945660	RGXPZC1OVV37L	0385335490	91997164	Johnny Angel	Books	4	2	3	N	N	A Pleasant Read	Johnny Peterson is killed in a car accident on the night of his senior prom.  When his mother becomes ill and hospitalized she sees him in a dream and learns that he will be coming back to earth to do some &quot;work&quot;.  He tells her he isn't sure what his &quot;work&quot; will be but that he'll be back and she'll be the only one to see him.  Then, in the following chapters of the book, Johnny solves all the problems his family and his girlfriend's family had at the time of his death.<br />Johnny Angel was a pleasant read.  I don't normally read books with the death/angel subject as the main theme, but since this was a Steel novel, and I own all of hers, I bought this book and read it.  I must say I was surprised by how much I enjoyed this book.  It was comforting to read about Johnny and how his family was able to overcome their grief and problems.<br />At just under two hundred pages Johnny Angel seems to be written pretty well except for one thing.  Ms. Steel insists on repeating things over and over.  This has become a major issue in her novels of late.  How many times do we have to be told about Johnny's father thinking girls shouldn't play boys sports??  Or about the accident involving his younger brother Bobby??  Enough with repeating everything already.  I don't need to be told things over and over again.  Sorry, this just becomes aggravating after awhile.  With the repeating aside, this story moved at a steady, quick pace.  I was able to read it in just one day.  <br />All in all this is one of Ms. Steel's better books in the past few years.  It was a good story and for the most part well told.  This book will bring tears to your eyes and also make you laugh with the light humor that it contains.  A four and a half star read.	2003-07-09
US	49945660	R28XJR84ULWNI0	0345440420	807327931	Magnolia Creek	Books	5	9	9	N	N	An Absolutely Wonderful Book	Dr. Dru Talbot has returned from the Civil War looking forward to the life he will lead with his &quot;new&quot; wife Sara.  When he returns home he discovers he's in for the shock of his life.  Sara is there, having just returned herself, but she's not alone.  With her is her daughter, who is way to young to belong to Dru.  Sara was lead to believe Dru was dead and being the naive, backwoods girl she was, fell under the spell of a Yankee soldier, who used her and left her with a baby.  Sara returns to Kentucky and is an outcast by everyone except Dru's mentally disturbed sister, who takes her in.  Can the damage done to this family be repaired???  Can mistakes be forgiven???  Can love conquer all???<br />This book was absolutely wonderful.  It was so easy to read and had characters who seemed completely believable and sincere.  I agree with the other reviewer that it is nice to read books about characters other than the ton and royalty.  It is great to read about our country and the past it has with characters who are written to fit right in to the time period.  The characters were well developed and the storyline seemed to be well thought out before the author started writing the book.  If you love romances or books about America's history you will love Magnolia Creek.<br />Magnolia Creek was such a good read that I had the book finished in just two days!  It was just too good to put down.  I just love a book that leaves you wanting more after the last page and this book definitely does that.  These characters seem so real that they become part of you and you miss them when you are finished.  <br />This was my first Jill Marie Landis book and I guarantee it won't be my last!  A great book to be read again and again.	2003-07-07
US	49945660	R8SC1RSWW3GF7	0553567683	653831390	Adam's Fall (Mason Sisters)	Books	5	23	24	N	N	Adam's Fall	Adam's Fall is the story of Adam Cavanaugh, an extremely wealthy hotel owner who falls while on an outing with two friends.  He is the only survivor and while doctors say he'll walk again Adam doesn't believe it and has went into a dark, depressive mood.  He needs the best of physical therapists to help him walk again.  Enter Lilah Mason, sister of Elizabeth, one of Adam's closest friends.  Lilah is the best physical therapist and goes to Hawaii to help Adam walk again, even though she can't stand him.<br />This was a very good read.  The story moved along at a quick pace.  With the hard cover edition reaching just over 200 pages the story was told well, in what seemed to be just the right amount of pages.  Nothing was lost in this story and it didn't drag along.  The characters were very entertaining.  Adam was well written in the fact that he's angry and scared of the possibility that he'll never walk again.  Lilah is a fun, sassy woman who knows her mind and speaks it.  She comes across as very strong and independent.  Pete, Adam's housekeeper, was a delight.  His character added charm to the book.  Then the evil girlfriend, Lucretia von whats her name, added just the right amount of conflict for a love triangle. She is definitely the character you'll love to hate.  She gets her just desserts in the end though.  <br />Adam's Fall was a good, entertaining book to read.  It is so good it can be read in just a day or two.  Very well written and easy to read.  Great job Ms. Brown.	2003-06-26
US	49945660	R1NJNVY5J5UE2S	0553578359	542824007	Chopping Spree (Goldy Culinary Mysteries, Book 11)	Books	3	0	1	N	N	My first Goldy book	Goldy Schulz, owner and operator of her Goldilocks Catering, is hired by her old coffee drinking friend Barry Dean to cater a party at the high-scale shopping mall he's the manager of. Barry is murdered at the mall after the party and the whodunit begins.  Goldy is on the case at once and not only because it was her friend that was murdered, but also because her family friend is the prime suspect!!  Goldy puts the clues together in between cups of espresso and solves the mystery.<br />Chopping Spree was the first Diane Mott Davidson book I have read. I wasn't sure if I would like the book but must admit it was a very easy to read book.  The plot was good and moved along at a fast pace. The characters were all interesting, even though they may not all be likable.  I believe this book would have been more enjoyable had I read the previous books by this author.  Even though this is a free standing book it seems as if the characters had a history that was revealed in earlier books. The reader might better understand the relationship between Goldy and Arch and Tom had they read the earlier books in order.  But once you get going in this book it doesn't really matter because everyone and everything gets sorted out and becomes understood.  This book is a light mystery also which was very pleasing.  There isn't a lot of yucky blood and gore scenes.  This was a definite plus in reading this book.<br />I wasn't really fond of the recipes right in the middle of the chapters.  I found I was reading along at a good pace and then would have to spend extra seconds turning through recipes.  I agree with earlier reviewers that the recipes should have been at the end of the chapters or the back of the book.<br />All in all this was a very satisfying book to read.  There is enough coffee drank and food ate to make you gain five pounds while reading, but it's all worth it.  I am now trying to decide which Goldy book I want to read next!	2003-06-24
US	49945660	RHWOYQ123HZIV	0743204700	471518023	An Accidental Woman	Books	3	3	5	N	N	Could Have Been Better	Heather Malone??  Lisa Matlock???  Who is the woman living with Micah Smith and his two girls, Missy and Star?  That's the question on everyone's mind when the Feds show up to arrest Heather Malone for flight to avoid prosecution.  Then it seems as if everyone's friend Heather could be a murderer!  This scandal has the whole town talking.  And it brings Griffin Hughes to town to help solve the case.  Griffin not only wants to solve the case but to become more than friends with Poppy Blake, who is wheelchair-bound from a snowmobile accident.<br />An Accidental Woman had a good storyline with the Heather/Lisa plot.  This storyline takes a detour and becomes the love story of Poppy and Griffin.  Their story takes center stage and the Heather/Lisa story becomes the secondary storyline in this book.  The character of Heather, who I thought would be the main character but wasn't, barely says anything throughout the book.  She seems spineless and not to seem to care about herself or her supposed loved ones--Micah and his daughters.  <br />I thought this book was a little too technical with the description of syrup making.  I found the parts with Micah and the neighbors in the sugarhouse and sugarbush boring.  I could have lived without the sugar lessons.  To me this seemed to add nothing of importance to the story.  It just filled up space on the pages, making this book longer than necessary.  I think this book could have been cut down by a hundred pages and been better.  There was just too much &quot;filler&quot; to the story.  I have read two other Delinsky novels with a &quot;who are they really&quot; plotline and liked them much better.  The story Heather/Lisa should have been the main focus of the book but it becomes obvious this is just a way to get Griffin to Lake Henry so he can charm Poppy.<br />This book wasn't what I thought it was going to be. I was looking forward to a suspense story with maybe a touch of romance thrown in. This story disappointed me.   The main story fell flat and the characters were not very real to me.  I really didn't care about them that much.   <br />If you're thinking of reading this book borrow it from your library.  It isn't worth buying.	2003-06-17
US	49945660	R18VOJAD4YHOPU	0060526203	392679529	Kiss Me Quick (Kiss Me Series, Book 1)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A charming read	Kiss Me Quick is the story of Lady Diana Westover.  She goes to Bath to stay with her two aunts and do &quot;research&quot; for a book she's writing.  She finds the subject of her research in Lord Adderley.  She is quite interested in him and he is quite intrigued by her.  Lord Adderley has a scandalous reputation though and isn't really accepted in polite society.  Therefore, Diana is expected to not associate with him and instead spend her time with Lord Fallston.  Lords Adderley and Fallston are enemies though and this presents trouble for Lady Diana.<br />This book was charming.  The characters were not the typical members of the ton one normally reads about.  Lord Adderley was written to be sensitive not just powerful.  Lady Diana has a mind of her own and she wasn't afraid to use it.  The added characters of Diana's aunts and Adderley's friends made the book a very good read.  They all proved entertaining and provided the book with some very good scenes.<br />I do agree with the previous reviewer that this book does fall somewhat flat towards the ending.  This was not the ending I expected.  This was the first Margaret Moore novel I've read so I don't have anything to compare the ending with than other authors endings.  It just seemed to end abruptly.  I was expecting more from the ending than was there.  But with that aside this was an entertaining read, worth the time it took to read it.	2003-06-02
US	49945660	RGYXWIM3UQZWC	0743206061	789567455	The Second Time Around (Clark, Mary Higgins)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A Guaranteed Page Turner	In Second Time Around Carley DeCarlo is a reporter for Wall Street Weekly.  Her first assignment at the magazine is to co-write an article about Nick Spencer and his company Gen-stone.  This is no ordinary story though as Nick Spencer is accused of stealing money from his company and staging his [demise] in a plane crash, because the vaccine his company promised to cure and prevent cancer was flawed. As Carley finds out there are many twists and turns in this story.  Many lives are affected by the promise of the vaccine and the money that will be reaped from it.  Carley has doubts about the fate of Nick Spencer and gets caught in the twists and turns the story takes.<br />This book was absolutely wonderful!  The whole storyline was very intriging to me.  I must admit there were a lot of characters and it was confusing at times keeping them all straight.  I found myself turning back to refresh my memory on who was who at the beginning.  This book just drew me in and wouldn't let me go until I had read the last word.  This is an absolutely wonderful read for a rainy day or a day outside in the sun.  A must have and must keep book!	2003-05-20
US	49945660	R27IJ4KPZKYQK0	0451409892	947961599	Phantom Waltz	Books	2	4	7	N	N	Did I read the same book as everybody else?	It seems as if just about everyone who reviewed this book liked it.  I hate to be in the minority but this book was rather boring to me.  The characters were too perfect and the story was just too long.  I read the hard cover edition and it seemed to me that the 418 pages could have been shortened to 200 without hurting the storyline.  I was bored by page 30 but kept reading because I didn't want to waste my money.  I had to force myself to finish the book, and it took me two weeks!  In my opinion this story just dragged on and on.  It would get interesting and start moving at a faster pace then all of a sudden the storyline just got stuck.  The best part of the story was when Cleo the cat went for a ride on T-Bone the bovine.<br />About the characters.  There were too many supporting characters.  They didn't seem to develop very well or play a very big part in the story.  They were just there to fill the pages.  The main characters seemed to sappy to me.  Ryan was just to perfect and understanding to seem believable. Bethany also seemed to be too perfect, even though she didn't have the use of her legs. Everything else about her just seemed to be too wonderful.  <br />This was the first book I read by this author.  And I hate to say it but it will be the last.  This book was just to boring for me.	2003-05-12
US	49945660	R7SPZ2ZIBIK1N	0440224772	328191774	Mirror Image	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Mirror Image	Mirror Image is the story of &quot;mirror&quot; twin sisters Olivia and Victoria.  The two have been raised since birth by their father who cannot tell them apart.  When they were children they would &quot;switch identities&quot; to do things the other twin didn't want to or couldn't do.  They try to pull this off in adulthood after Victoria has an affair with a married man and then is forced to marry her father's lawyer.  To add some spice to the story Victoria's sister Olivia is very much attracted to Charles, the lawyer, and his young son Geoff.  Geoff was on the Titanic with his mother when it sunk.  She died and so now Charles is raising Geoff on his own.  This is why he agrees to marry Victoria.  The &quot;switch&quot; occurs after Victoria decides she cannot be married anymore and wants to go to Europe to help with the War.  <br />This story seems to be about a good twin and a bad twin.  As sweet as Olivia is Victoria is just as bad.  The story was OK but it seemed to take forever to set up everything.  The switch doesn't take place until halfway through the book.  After that things seem to move more quickly and the story becomes more entertaining.  The characters are typical of those found in Danielle Steel novels.  The whole &quot;switching&quot; storyline did seem to be a little far-fetched to me.  How could a husband not know that someone else was pretending to be his wife??  In fact, no one seemed to notice that Olivia was standing in as Victoria.  I just don't see how this could happen in real life.<br />This was an OK read to pass the time.  I have read much better Danielle Steel books.  I would recommend Malice, No Greater Love, The Ring, or Lightning instead of this book.	2003-05-01
US	49945660	R22UOUDHPDKQMI	0385336314	801337729	Dating Game	Books	3	13	16	N	N	Three and a half stars please	Paris Armstrong is the perfect wife and mother of two grown children.  She lives in a beautiful house in Greenwich, Connecticut.  Her perfect world is shattered when her husband of twenty-four years, Peter, announces after a dinner party that he is leaving her for another woman.  One who is barely older than their daughter.  Paris is distraught to say the least and tries to pick up the pieces and move on with her life.  Part of this process includes her moving to the West Coast and finding a job.  There she meets Bixby Mason, party planner extraordinaire! She becomes friends with Bixby and through his encouragement decides to get back into the &quot;dating game&quot;.  <br />This book was an OK read.  I felt sorry for Paris at first when Peter dumped her and thought he was a jerk.  It was good to know that Danielle Steel could still write about people and pull the proper emotion out of me.  I quickly became bored though when she moved to California and started dating.  Her dates were funny but they all seemed the same.  The storyline seemed to me to get stuck halfway through the book.  It was like Danielle Steel got Paris to California and then didn't know what to do with her.  The direction of the book appeared to be going nowhere fast.  <br />I am getting a little tired of reading about women who are treated badly by their husbands and that is what the last few Steel novels have been.  It also seems to me as if she's bringing in the same quirky characters but with different names, example: Bixby Mason.  I loved this character, he definitely added entertainment to the story, but wasn't he in a previous novel but with a different name?  Ms. Steel's characters all seem to be the same anymore.<br />I am beginning to wonder if Ms. Steel hasn't run out of ideas.  After 50+ books maybe she is.  I see she is due to have another book released this year.  Hopefully it will be better.  Although Dating Game was a somewhat enjoyable read I still prefer her earlier works.  Theyare much more entertaining and worthy of the title &quot;bestseller&quot;.	2003-04-03
US	49945660	R1UWP941OYIH3O	0515121290	709099322	Waiting for Yesterday	Books	5	6	6	N	N	A Sweet, Enchanting Romance	I must start by saying I don't normally like time travel books but I picked this book because it sounded interesting.  I was not disappointed.<br />This is the story of Barrett Overbrook.  She is at a point in her life where she isn't exactly happy being.  She drives to a bed and breakfast where her life changes completely.  She falls asleep and wakes up giving birth in the 1880's!  She also discovers she's married and has a biracial brother-in-law.  <br />This story was romantic, funny and sweet!   Barrett, a.k.a. Elizabeth, is funny trying to adjust to the new time she is in.  She slips up and says the funniest things for the time period she is in.  Her husband, Chase, doesn't understand the drastic changes in his wife.  The stiff, formal Elizabeth has undergone a dramatic change during childbirth.  She is a completely different person.  Barrett, during a conversation with her guardian angel Mr. Gideon, discovers she has been brought back in time and is stuck there until she learns to love and accepts love.  Her feelings toward Mr. Gideon are quite hilarious.<br />I can't express enough how much I loved this book.  The storyline was wonderful. The characters were well developed and seemed real.  Chase was a great character.  The character of Wes seemed to really add to the story.  Mr. Gideon added to the story also.  I couldn't wait to find out what happened next and read this book in one day.  The story was written so well that there were not any dull periods in it.  It read smoothly from one chapter to the next and was just an all around great read.  This is a feel good story.  A keeper for anyones library.	2003-03-16
US	49945660	R2XS8SHKOPI1SN	0804119791	5039678	Ecstasy (Notorious)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Pure Reading Ecstasy	Raven Kendrick had two goals...to marry nobility and NEVER fall in love with a man.  Raven seen the devastation of her mother when she fell in love with a man she couldn't have and Raven has vowed not to follow in her mother's footsteps.  She is set to marry the Duke of Halford and is abducted on her wedding day as she is about to leave for the wedding.  She is abducted by one of her suitors that she refused. Sean Lasseter is bent on revenge because Raven refused to marry him.  He has set out to make her pay.  Raven is rescued by Sean's brother Kell.  To offset a scandal and to protect his brother Kell offers to marry Raven.  It is to be a marriage of convenience only.  After they spend an amount of time to show their marriage is one of love they will move into separate houses and live out their lives.  Oh, if it were only that easy! Kell begins to have feelings for Raven and wants to protect her from his evil brother Sean.  Raven denies any feelings she might have for Kell.  But when the going gets tough these two stick together to conquer their problems.  <br />This was a great book.  The characters were interesting and well written. I found myself liking Raven and Kell from the beginning.   Even the secondary characters were written as if thought were put into them and they weren't just fillers on the page.  The plot was interesting and moved along at a fast pace.  It was never boring reading about Raven and Kell.  This book, even though 400+ pages, was very interesting and entertaining.  This was my first Nicole Jordan novel and I purchased the other three books that went along with this book before I was halfway through with Ecstasy.  What a great read to read again and again!	2003-03-02
US	49945660	R17YZUUGUCHA18	0446609617	276509900	Standoff	Books	3	2	3	N	N	An entertaining way to pass the day	Standoff is the story of an ace TV reporter starting out her much needed vacation to a mountain getaway.  She hears on the radio that two teenagers, one of whom is kidnapped, are headed towards Mexico.  She decides to delay her vacation to get the story.  She stops off at a convenience store and while there comes face to face with the two teenagers.  One of which goes into labor in the store!  The story progresses through the night and into the next day as the hostages and teenagers try to deal with the situation.<br />I thought this story was entertaining.  It was suspenseful enough to keep me reading until the end.  The ending was a little sugary but that is to be expected from Sandra Brown.  I thought the character development and the plot were excellent in this book.  It was impossible to guess what was going to happen next.  The characters were believeable and well written.<br />This isn't a deep, soul searching book but an entertaining way to pass the day!	2003-02-23
US	49945660	R3AONESICM5YW6	0380820897	431997179	One Night of Passion (Avon Romantic Treasure)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A romantic and enchanting read	One Night of Passion is the story of Georgie Escott. Her sister Kit has stolen a letter off the desk of their uncle that says Georgie is to be married the next day to Lord Harris.  This is shocking news to Georgie.  She confronts her aunt and uncle and learns that indeed she is to be married to Lord Harris.  But, there's one stipulation, Georgie must be untouched.  She is due to have an exam the next day to prove she is.   She and her sister come up with a plan that is sure to get Georgie out of the marriage.  She'll go to the Cyprian Ball and seduce someone to get her out of her marriage.  At the ball she meets Colin, who is Lord Danvers, who is her guardian, who signed the papers saying she would marry Lord Harris.  Georgie and Colin don't know who each other are but fall in love with each other at first sight.  Will her plan to get out of her marrige work?  You'll have to read the book to find out!<br />This was such a good book.  The story was well written and was easy to read and quick to read.  The characters were well written and the plot developed at just the right pace.  Everything came together for just the right read for a day spent inside or even a day outside relaxing with a good book. A book to read again and again!	2003-02-23
US	49945660	R31KN3E3IKEUE	0061040347	64637040	A Woman Betrayed	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A Woman Betrayed	Laura Frye thought she had the perfect life. Until one night her husband Jeff didn't come home.  Laura is sure there has been some terrible accident that has prevented Jeff's homecoming.  He would never disappear on purpose.  As if the disappearance isn't enough, six days later the IRS is knocking on her door to inform her Jeff is being investigated for tax fraud.  The man she thought she knew isn't the man she knew at all.  And the bad news doesn't end there...but you'll have to read the book to find out what happens next!<br />A Woman Betrayed was an absolute fabulous book.  The book gets going on the first page and doesn't stop until the end.  The reader begins to wonder just how much this one woman can take and how much she'll have to endure.  The book is written in such a way that everything that happens to Laura and her family is believeable.  Ms. Delinsky did her homework well before writing this book.  Every event falls into place in a long (and I do mean long) line of betrayal.  The storyline of Daphne, Laura's lawyer friend, and Tack, the IRS agent, added to the story too.  Their  storyline ties in with the rest of the story effortlessly.<br />I can't say enough about this book.  I just couldn't read it fast enough.  I had to know what happened.  This book will bring out all the emotions--sadness, anger, hurt, and maybe a little happiness at the end.  This is a book to keep and read again!	2003-02-23
US	49945660	R3SND34C8WOZL6	0385335431	533128390	Answered Prayers	Books	2	30	34	N	N	A Huge Disappointment	Answered Prayers is the story of Faith Madison, the stylish, perfect housewife and mother to her husband Alex and daughters Eloise and Zoe.  She runs into an old childhood friend, Brad, at her stepfathers funeral.  Soon the two are emailing each other multiple times a day and calling each other whenever they aren't emailing.  Faith decides to go back to school and maybe become a lawyer.  This causes major tension between her and Alex and their two daughters.  When Faith returns to school the tension builds and thus the story builds too.<br />This book was extremely bland. This was almost like reading The Kiss.  Except in this book there is no car crash that land Faith and Brad in the hospital.  It seems like Ms. Steel uses the same story line in all of her books lately.  Faith had absolutely no backbone and Alex was just a complete jerk (like the husband in The Journey).  Eloise was nothing short of a witch.  Zoe was a spot of sunshine in this book.  The character of Brad was a bit too perfect.  Always at the phone or computer whenever Faith needed him.  This aspect I found extremely odd.  Brad is a busy lawyer yet has time to email Faith more than once a day and he's always at his computer or phone whenever she writes or calls.  <br />Ms. Steels latest books have lacked the spark of her earlier works.  She tends to repeat herself constantly.  The book would be half the size if she wouldn't repeat herself so much. In this book she concentrates on Jack, Faith's deceased brother, way too much.  He is brought up in the book as if he's still alive.  The whole church aspect of the storyline was off too.  Faith, the dedicated churchgoer, only went to church it seemed to light candles. Again, this whole part of the storyline just didn't seem to fit into the story right.<br />To sum it up....boring book, same as all other books written by Ms. Steel in the past few years.  I would recommend revisiting  one of her earlier books or if you must read this one, borrow it from thelibrary. Don't spend your hard earned money on this.	2003-01-08
US	49945660	R1KHGLV2ZAGBF5	0425186326	336121808	Family Album	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Good story but...	Family Album is the story of Hannah Farris who leads the perfect California life.  Wealthy, adoring husband, perfect daughter.   But one thing haunts her.  Twenty years ago, on her very birthday, she gave birth to a baby boy and gave him up for adoption.  She has never told her husband and daughter that she had a baby before moving to California.  However, she is about to face the past.   And his name is David.<br />The basis of the book was very good.  The story was one I was very interested in reading.  I just couldn't seem to get completely interested in this book.  It seemed to be too choppy and not flow from one scene to the next.  The characters didn't seem to be fully developed either.  Hannah and Simon are supposed to have the perfect marriage but on paper it just doesn't come across that way. They seem more like strangers than husband and wife.  The best interaction between characters is Jenny and her Grandmother Ferris.  Aunt Marcy also seems to be a likable and genuine character.  The story of Hannah and Mark was wonderful to read.<br />I wanted to like this book so much.  I wanted it to be a page turner that I just couldn't put down.  I was quite disappointed that this book fell short of my expectations.  Half the book is setting up the meeting between Hannah and her son.  And then at the end the  book just ends abruptly.  It's as if the author ran out of words.  I was left wanting more closure when I finished this book.  This was my first Kay book and sorry I just wasn't impressed.	2002-11-12
US	49945660	R225P7RM57Q1EV	0743411250	940771299	The Woman Next Door	Books	5	4	4	N	N	An intriguing 5 star read	The Woman Next Door focuses on three married couples, two with children, and a widow who live on a cul-de-sac.  Amanda and Graham have the perfect life-except for the baby they want so much to have and can't.  Georgia and Russ have reverse roles with Russ being the stay at home parent and Georgia the traveling business woman.  Karen and Lee have the most turbulent marriage of the three couples.  Karen is a stay at home mom who volunteers for everything and Lee is the computer wizard who owns his own business and has a record of  cheating on his wife.  Gretchen is the lonely widow who is pregnant.  When the women of the cul-de-sac find out Gretchen is pregnant distrust runs wild in the minds of the three wives as they try to figure out who the father is.  They not only suspect their friends husbands but also their own.<br />This book was absolutely wonderful.  It was my first, but definitely not last, Delinsky novel. The plot was well thought out and the characters were well developed.  It was almost like reading a whodunit novel.  Ms. Delinsky keeps you riveted to the pages until the end when you find out who the father is.  This is a book about self-discovery and discovery about other people and what makes them tick.  The storyline of teen suicide was very well written.  Ms. Delinsky obviusly did her research well and did an excellent job of writing this book.  <br />I would highly recommend this book to anyone.  It is a great read and is a book to read more than once.  Definitly a keeper.	2002-11-03
US	49945660	RAD43KRXL415L	1551668270	252458883	Cold Tea On A Hot Day	Books	3	1	3	N	N	A Mediocre Read	Cold Tea on a Hot Day was a rather unique title for a book I thought.  That was the only unique thing I found about this book.  I thought it was just a mediocre read and not very entertaining.  I read this book through to the end only because I had purchased it and wanted to get my money's worth.  <br />The characters in this book were not very interesting.  Marilee was just an average woman who only knew how to be a mother.  And she was a mother to everyone, young and old alike.  Tate and his by golly's became very irritating.  Parker was a child in a mans body.  The children, Willie Lee and Corrine were probably the best characters in the book.  Along with Munro the dog they made the book bearable to read.  This book seemed to have no plot and just went along at a steady pace of nothingness.  This book might have had potential if the plot had been set up with more strength and the characters had more substance.  I felt this story could have been told in a lot fewer pages and been just as, if not more, entertaining.  Borrow this book from your library, it's not worth buying.	2002-11-03
US	49945660	R1AP9B8ALDH30Y	1551669293	610237282	204 Rosewood Lane (Cedar Cove, Book 2)	Books	4	13	13	N	N	2nd trip to Cedar Cove	After reading 16 Lighthouse Road and not really enjoying it, I was hesitant to buy 204 Rosewood Lane.  But I did buy it because I just had to find out what happened to Dan.  Then I read the reviews and was really afraid to open the book because I thought I'd dislike it so much. <br />I read this book in about 2 days.  It wasn't really all that bad. I did enjoy it more than the first book in the series but I was disappointed in just a couple of things.  First, the young military couple from the first book didn't make much of an appearance in this book.  Cecilia is mentioned but just in passing really.  Her husband must be out to sea because nothing is mentioned about him.  Second, I (like other reviewers) thought there were just too many characters in this book.  Even though I'd read the first book I had a hard time keeping everyone straight.  There really should be a chart or listing at the front of the books if there are to be so many characters. <br />This book had some good story lines though.  The mystery with the dead man at the B&amp;B and also the hint of mystery about Jon Bowman had me reading to the end as fast as I could.  I also liked the continuing story of Olivia and the developing  love triangle with her ex-husband and current boyfriend.   I thought the relationship between Grace and Cliff was sweet and romantic.  I believe the storyline with Zach and Rosie was building up for the next book.<br />All in all this was a good book and worth the time reading.  I am now anxiously awaiting the next book in the series.   This book left too many questions left unanswered and leaves the reader wanting more :)	2002-09-19
US	49945660	R5E5VD5A9RTHF	038082079X	161550759	An Affair to Remember (Talisman Ring)	Books	3	3	8	N	N	Not that memorable	An affair to remember???  I don't think so.  This book had a good, though typical, storyline.  Anthony becomes the guardian of five young mischievious children whom he apparently doesn't get along with.  He can't keep a governess employed for more than two weeks at time.  After he goes through many he hires the best governess, Anna Thraxton.   She comes to the estate and gets the children in line and everyone else too.  <br />This just wasn't the story I thought it would be.  Anna and Anthony had sparks flying off the pages but it wasn't enough to keep me riveted to the pages to see what would happen.  The children kept the story entertaining, along with Anna's grandfather.  He was such a sweet old man.  This story just seemed to drag by until the last few chapters.  This is much like the other Hawkins book I read, The Seduction of Sara.  <br />Sorry I couldn't agree with everyone else who apparently seemed to love this story.  I just don't think it's a book I'll remember.	2002-09-19
US	49945660	R1X05Y33EFPBPH	0380802856	395667300	Mail-Order Bride	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Five stars just aren't enough!!!	This book deserves more than five stars!!!  It is a sweet and enchanting love story that will keep you glued to the pages until you've read the last word.<br />Kate Murphy goes to Orion to become a mail-order bride.  The day she arrives there is a cave-in at the mine and her intended is killed.  She is left all alone in a strange town with little money.  She is then taken in by Mrs. Hartwick, an old widow.  Kate wants to get a job to earn enough money to move away from the mining town.  She gets a job working for Trev Trevelyan, the mine superintendent, babysitting his two children.  His daughter won't speak due to prior events but takes to Kate immediately.<br />This story is just so romantic.  The love between Trev and Kate grows slowly and that makes it believeable.  There isn't the normal man and woman hate each other element that so many romance books have.  Kate and Trev are both attracted to each other but due to past experiences and current circumstances they don't want to lay their hearts on the line.<br />I just can't say enough about this book.  It is an excellent read for a day outside in the sun or a rainy day inside.  No matter the weather outside this book will warm your heart and soul.	2002-09-19
US	49945660	RH8CRV8P37SDO	0060188170	320366891	True Speed: My Racing Life	Books	5	5	5	N	N	True Tony	True Speed is the story of Tony Stewart's life both on and off the race track.  Written by Tony (along with a co-author) True Speed reflects Tony's thoughts and beliefs.  I found myself to be an bigger fan after reading the book than I was before.  Tony is dedicated to his sport and that is clear in each and every page.  Along with Tony's views there are quotes from family, friends, team members, and fellow drivers.  This all mixes together to make True Speed a truly interesting read.<br />I am from Indiana and I am very proud to say that I am from the same state as Tony Stewart!  Good luck to Tony in everything he does.	2002-08-25
US	49945660	R19DJYGUXHN8M3	0380978555	842568057	The Pursuit (Sherring Cross)	Books	2	11	11	N	N	The Pursuit	I usually like to start my reviews with a brief description of the books plot without telling too much of the story.  With The Pursuit I find this extremely difficult to do.  Basically the story is about a man, Lincoln, who has found the girl he wants to marry and has to fight off her sixteen uncles and persuade her parents he's not crazy.  Basically that's the whole book.<br />I found this book extremely difficult to read.  There is a lot of Scottish brouge or &quot;burr&quot; as it's referred to.  This makes every conversation hard to read because usually one of the participants is from Scotland.  I've read other Lindsey novels and even though she puts some Scottish dialect in her books it's not as bad as The Pursuit.  Adding to the language issue is the sixteen uncles, six of which are named Ian.  They are referred to as Ian One, Ian Two, and so on.  I just found this really aggravating trying to read the novel and trying to keep the Ians straight.   <br />I also found this story to be kind of drawn out.  This book is just over 300 pages but I felt like it could have been told in 200 and been much more entertaining.  It seemed like to took pages and pages for a simple scene to be acted out.<br />I was disappointed with this book.  Prior to reading this book the only Lindsey novels I'd read were the Mallory novels.   They were much more romantic and entertaining.  I would suggest reading or even re-reading one of them instead of reading this book.  Don't waste your money.	2002-07-05
US	49945660	R2IUBH5OFWCP9M	0385335466	930294466	Sunset in St. Tropez	Books	4	9	11	N	N	A Pleasurable Read	Sunset in St. Tropez is the story of six friends (three married couples) who have a long-lasting friendship.  On New Year's Eve they decide to take a vacation to St. Tropez for a month in the summer.  Then unexpectedly Anne, one the the six friends, dies and the rest of the group has to decide whether or not to go.  Thanks to a non-refundable deposit they go ahead and go to make the best of their vacation and also to honor their friend's memory.  Once they arrive at St. Tropez the book takes on a humorous quality. <br />All in all this book was very good.  It was entertaining while exploring the issue of death among a group of friends.  The widower announces he is bringing a friend along with him and this creates a conflict among the other friends.  They feel like they can't accept the friend because it would be a dishonor to their deceased friend.  I thought this aspect of the book was well written.  It explores the whole issue of how people move on after a death and how they honor and treasure the memory of the deceased.  The housekeeper and her husband added a very humorous quality to the book.  <br />Sunset in St. Tropez is by no means a deep, thought provoking book but neither is it a comedy.  It is a well-blended combination of seriousness with just enough humor to make it a great vacation or weekend read.  I was able to read this book within one day, which seems to be a rarity with DS books anymore.  If you haven't liked previous DS books please give this one a try.  I think you'll enjoy it.	2002-07-03
US	49945660	R2ZII759NJDJZL	1551668912	761264374	Thursdays At Eight	Books	5	1	1	N	N	debbie does it again!!	Thursdays at Eight is a book about four women who meet in a journal writing class and form a breakfast club after their classes end. They become friends even though each woman is at a different stage in her life.  One is single, one is married, one is divorced and the fourth is widowed.  These women all have different lives but connect with each other in their friendships. They are each others support group when they need support and encouragement.<br />This book is absolutely wonderful.  The characters will appeal to any woman of any age. Any woman can definitely identify with at least one of the four characters.  I thought this aspect was wonderful.  I was greatly touched while reading this book.  I just couldn't put it down.  I would definitely recommend this book!	2002-06-16
US	49945660	R1Q9US20S5H2IF	1551665085	255076410	Swept Away	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Swept Away	Julia Armiger has set her mind to bring revenge on Deverel Grey, Lord Stonehaven.  He brought to light the embezellment of money by her brother Selby.  Julia and Phoebe, her sister-n-law, don't believe Selby took the money and want to prove his innocence to clear the family name of the scandal that resulted.  Julia has tried to get Lord Stonehaven before, but when all attempts fail she sets out with a new plan, a plan of seduction.  She believes she can seduce the truth out of Lord Stonehaven.  The truth being he embezzled the money, not Selby.  <br />Swept Away was a thrilling book to read.  The characters were well developed and well written.  Lord Stonehaven is quite enchanting and Julia is a very independent thinker.  When she sets her mind to something there is no stopping her.  The chemistry between these two is like fire jumping up off the pages.  This book will keep you on the edge of your seat.  There is romance, humor, mystery, and lots of passion.  The characters of Phoebe and Geoffery really added to the story.  And Dev's mother Lady Stonehaven was a very likable character.  There are many twists and turns to this story.  <br />I have never read a Candace Camp story that I didn't thoroughly enjoy.  This book met all my expectations of a Candace Camp novel.  I was able to read this book in practically one day.  It was so easy to get into and to keep reading.  A must read for any Candace Camp fan or anyone new to a Camp novel.	2002-04-14
US	49945660	R1C0FXRN74V6L2	0380818205	825716848	The Marriage Lesson (Effington Family & Friends)	Books	4	15	16	N	N	A Lesson Worth Reading About	The Marriage Lesson is the humorous story of Thomas Effington, Lord Helmsley, who becomes the keeper of his sister's three young sisters-in-law.  His hopes are to marry them off as quickly as he can so his life can get back to it's normal routine.  But the sisters have a different idea.  Marianne, the oldest of the three, has no desire to get married.  The two younger sisters tell Thomas they themselves won't marry until their older sister does.  Herein lies the challenge...he must find a husband for the adventure-seeking Marianne. <br />This story is romantic and funny at the same time.  The character of Thomas is so typical male that it's hilarious to read about him. When it comes to love he seems to be rather dense.  I think in the end his friends even feel sorry for him because of his lack of smarts where Marianne is concerned.  Marianne is truly a heroine to fall in love with.  She is smart and full of wit.  She is not going to let any man stand in her way.  She is very independent and imaginative.  She keeps Thomas on his toes.  And the romantic things Thomas does to win Marianne's heart are so funny.  <br />The secondary characters are also very well developed and likable.  I would like to see more written about Pennington and Berkley.  Marianne's sisters were also very enjoyable characters.  Especially when they teamed up to help Thomas with Marianne.  And the whole idea of Marianne writing the \\"Absolutely True\\" stories definitely added some spice to the book.<br />This book is very enjoyable and is easy to read.  I found myself reading faster and faster to get to the end to see what happened. It was definitely a great way to spend a few hours.	2002-04-13
US	49945660	R8UJ2QT5LOQES	0385335520	52235556	The Cottage	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Could Have Definitely Been Better	The Cottage is about several peoples lives with the main focus of the book being Coop Winslow, as 70 year old \\"has been\\" movie star and his Cottage.  When Coop is not able to make ends meat his accountant and personal assistant talk him into renting out a guest wing in his house and his gatehouse.  Enter the supporting characters Mark and Jimmy.  Coop meets Alex at a dinner party at a friends house.  Um, did I mention she's 29 and they just hit it off wonderfully?  Well, they do.  This book then preceeds to roll their lives together like a bad tasting burrito.  <br />There are a lot of inconsistencies in this book.  First a doctor whose job is to save babies supports an abortion of her lovers child.  She passes it off as if it's a stain on a shirt.  Coop is so broke he needs to rent out parts of his Cottage, yet he takes his lovers to fancy restaurants and lavishes them with expensive clothes and trinkets.  Is this possible?  Coop seems to be nothing short of a jerk in denial.  How can one possibly feel sorry for him.  <br />Mark and Jimmy were spots of sunshine in this book.  There stories were worth reading.  They seemed to have come from the earlier Danielle Steel novels when one could really grow to like a character and be interested in their lives.  Paloma added some color to the pages as the eccentric housekeeper.  <br />This book became very predictable during the last one hundred pages.  I had figured out the ending and all of the twists and turns in the relationship well before the last page.  This book seemed to have somewhat of a good plot but just didn't have the ingredient to hold it all together.  It was a very light read that was hard to get into at times.  Could have definitely been better.	2002-03-19
US	49945660	RKYUXQF6T5J50	044652767X	691782211	Seduction by Design	Books	4	2	5	N	N	A Seduction Worth Reading About	Hailey Aston meets the owner of the theme park she works at in the most unusual way.  She is told immediately that she will be seduced, whether she wants to be or not.  Hailey tries to fight her attraction to Tyler Scott but is unable to.  <br />Seduction by Design is a quick, fast-paced read.  I was drawn into the story within the first few pages and couldn't quit reading until I finished the last page.  The characters are pretty well developed.  The storyline is your basic man/woman-don't-like-each-other-then-fall-in-love.  The character of Faith really added to the story.  It made it more interesting.  The character of Ellen did add to the story and gave the reader someone they could dislike.  While this isn't a deep meaningful love story, it is a quick read for a rainy day or a day at the beach.	2002-02-21
US	49945660	RBD5Q2A1V84J6	0380815265	625565407	The Seduction of Sara	Books	3	3	4	N	N	The Seduction of Sara	The Seduction of Sara was a good book but just didn't hold up to the other regency romance books I've read.  The book had nice, enjoyable characters (even the secondary characters were well written about). I loved the characters Sara and Nicholas.   Their story is a very interesting one during the last part of the book.  The plot was just too slow paced until the last hundred or so pages.  The storyline was good and the idea of the book was good, it just took too long to get to the interesting part.  This book also has too many loose ends.  The story ends without the reader really knowing how different situations were resolved.  (If you read the book you'll know what I'm talking about!)  The ending was OK, just too weak.  <br />If you're looking for a regency romance with lots of rakes, rogues and pretty Ladies and Lords, I would recommend the Mallory Novels by Johanna Lindsey.  They are much more entertaining.	2002-02-09
US	49945660	R1P3KV7CZTQNDP	0380815532	969738482	Some Kind of Wonderful	Books	4	55	55	N	N	A great story to pass the time	Caitlyn has a past she'd rather forget.  Matt is looking for his past.  The two live across the hall from each other but have never met.  That is, until one night a baby is left in the hallway, on Matt's side, and he goes across the hall to Caitlyn for help.  Together the two take care of the baby and fight the pain of each of their past.<br />This was a good novel.  The characters were likable and well developed. They could be people we all know in real life.   They each grow throughout the story and grow together as neighbors and friends.  The storyline in this book seemed to be well thought out. It moved at a fairly decent pace.<BR>There are a lot of events that happen over the one week course of this story.  All in all this was a good book.  I found myself reading as fast as I could because I couldn't wait to find out what happened.  I would like to see a follow-up book to this story.  Maybe one more in-depth with Sarah and Reverend Johnathan.	2002-01-07
US	49945660	R2NF74P9VJB4HC	0385335407	312382646	The Kiss	Books	3	19	21	N	N	an OK read	Isabelle Forrester and Bill Robinson live in different continents but carry on a friendship via the telephone and a few visits here and there for four years.  Isabelle stays at home with her sick child Teddy and her hateful husband.  Bill is in a loveless marriage and doesn't want to get divorced because he's afraid it will hurt his career.  Isabelle and Bill decide to meet in London for a few days to spend some time together.  While in London they share a passionate kiss while at practically the same moment their limousine is hit by a double-decker bus.  Their lives are forever changed.<br />The Kiss is an OK read.  The characters are well developed and the storyline for the most part is good.  However, there are some parts that are a little far-fetched, such as Bill's hospital bed being wheeled into Isabelle's room everyday.  The story seems to get stuck at times and the same details are repeated, which seems is becoming a habit for Ms. Steel.  But, once you get past the repetitive parts the story picks up and is interesting and easy to read.  The reader is anxious to get to the end to see how the story ends.  This is not one of Ms. Steel's best books but is OK to pass the time reading.  A nice change of pace and escape in today's world.	2001-11-08
US	49945660	R2CU49D4HNSN31	1551668300	377209543	16 Lighthouse Road (Cedar Cove, Book 1)	Books	4	0	2	N	N	Lots of Potential, Yet a Good Story	16 Lighthouse Road is the story of the citizens of Cedar Cove, Washington. Cecilia and Ian Randall are a young, married couple having problems. They are in court seeking a divorce. Here we are introduced to Olivia, the judge. She doesn't grant them their divorce. Jack Griffin, the new editor of the local paper is in court that day writing an article for the paper. An article that will get people talking. There is also Charlotte, Olivia's mother. She is a busybody to say the least. Yet a very charming character. We also meet Grace and her husband Dan who seem to have a good marriage but then he just disappears. 16 Lighthouse Road was a good book except it jumped around to too many characters. It would have been better if it would have just focused on a few characters, like Cecilia and Ian, Olivia and Jack for instance. Instead the reader is introduced to many of the townspeople and it begins to get a little overwhelming. The storylines were good they just didn't get to develop because there were too many. I really like Ms. Macombers books but this book just seemed to focus on too many people and didn't build a good solid story around any two characters. The story of Cecilia and Ian was good but again it would be nice if more time had been spent on them. The storyline with Grace and her husband was excellent. I would liked to have seen one whole book dedicated to their story. Ms. Macombers other books, such as the Texas series and Buffalo Valley series, are better in that one book is dedicated primarily to one or two sets of characters and their stories. The other townspeople are in the story but they don't play such a big part like these in Cedar Cove. This book had a lot of potential but didn't expand on it. The characters were all people one could like and were again everyday people that everyone can relate to. There were just too many of them. Still, this was still a good book and passed away the hours in an entertaining way.	2001-09-22
US	49945660	R18366FG28LKEV	1556611188	464183111	The Calling of Emily Evans (Women of the West)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	A tender and touching story	The Calling of Emily Evans is a tender and touching story.  Young Emily gets her calling to become a pastor while in Bible School.  While her father doesn't want her to go off by herself to minister to a new community, Emily's mind is made up.  This is her calling and it is what she's going to do.  <br />Emily does not have an easy time trying to build her congregation.  She is met by challenges but faces them head on.  She never gives up.  She is very determined to make her church successful and doesn't want anyone to know when time are hard for her.<br />The Calling is a wonderful story.  Ms. Oke writes about characters the reader finds themselves caring about.  From Emily to Big John the characters are wonderfully written.  The plot is good and the development of the characters is excellent.  This book is great!  It is a tender,touching story that will warm your heart.  Definitely worth reading and recommending to someone!   Read today!!	2001-09-01
US	49945660	R29OQS1ATY99H3	0553108344	953079661	Genuine Lies	Books	3	15	15	N	N	Genuine Lies	Julia Summers has been hand picked to write the memoirs of Eve Benedict by Eve herself. She packs up her ten year old son and heads off to California to research and write the book. Once in California Julia begins receiving pieces of paper with sayings on them that are intended to be threatening. A lot of people want to put a stop to the writing of Eve's memoirs but one person in particular wants the book to never be published. Herein lies the mystery of the book. Just who is that one person.<BR>There are a lot of characters in this book. All of which are close to Eve in some manner. I found it hard at times to keep all the characters straight. And then there were the flashbacks when Eve was telling of certain events or times. This book seemed to go on and on with little or no purpose. Once I got within the last hundred pages of the book it became very interesting and worth the time reading. I only wish the first three hundred pages could have kept my attention.  It was hard to keep reading when I found it not that interesting. There was a climax to the storyline but I think it was too far into the book. To tell Eve's story took awhile but it wasn't really all that interesting.<BR>To sum it up--Genuine Lies is a good book if you like the tales of the rich and famous (even if they are fictional). This book could have stood to be shorter. It might have even been better. If it wasn't for the last one hundred pages I would have rated this book two stars.	2001-08-29
US	49945660	R3F1JMPWZQST2Y	0446603309	392118825	The Witness	Books	5	300	313	N	N	Bravo Ms. Brown!	As a fan of Ms. Brown's romance novels I hesitated to read her suspense novels.   My aunt recommended this book to me and I'm ever thankful she did.  This is definitely one of the best books I've read this year.<br />Kendall Deaton is a Public Defender in the small town of Prosper, South Carolina. She marries handsome hunk Matt Burnwood expecting to live a fairy tale life.  But her life then changes.  She is witness to a hideous event and is running for her life.  To reveal more details would ruin the story.<br />This book is just awesome.  It has a spine-tingling plot with twists that will literally keep you on the edge of your seat.  The plot will keep you reading for hours on end.  It's almost as if the pages turn themselves and you have been sucked into the story.  The characters are wonderfully written.  Kendall is someone you have to admire and you really don't know her whole story until the very last page.  I can't say it enough, this book hooks you and won't let go!  I agree with the other reviewer that I would like to see a book about Ricki Sue and Jim Pepperdyne.  One could definitely see the sparks flying off the pages with those two.<br />Once again, an excellent book worth the time reading.  Great job Ms. Brown.	2001-08-20
US	49945660	R2DOF2I7K9VA4N	0515130389	573580919	Carolina Moon	Books	5	3	4	N	N	captivating	Wow!!  What can I possibly say about this book except that it is great!  Definitely one of the best books I've read this year.  Carolina Moon has everything needed for a great womens novel:  romance, intrigue, suspense, jealousy, characters you love to hate and to spice things up just a bit, murders.  <br />This was the first Nora Roberts book I've read and I simply enjoyed it to the max.  Carolina Moon is well written. It is written in present day and with flashbacks to the past.  I thought the flashbacks added in made the book all the better. The characters were well developed and well written.  The plot was fantastic.  The whole storyline was just great!  I just can't say enough about this book.  It is definitely a must read that will keep you away from your work and keep you up at night!!	2001-08-11
US	49945660	RTJ443ILUW0A5	155661683X	929682770	A Gown of Spanish Lace (Women of the West #11)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A Wonderful Story	A Gown of Spanish Lace is the story of Ariana, a sixteen year old schoolteacher.  She is abducted from her school right before a storm.  She is taken by her captors far from her home. There she loses track of time but never loses her faith in God to take care of her.  She is befriended by Sam, one of the outlaws who abducts her.  Sam is in charge of guarding the prisoner but then things change.  Laramie, son of The Boss, is put in charge of Ariana.  This is all part of The Boss's plot and reason for taking her.  After Laramie is put in charge of Ariana things take on very interesting turns.  People begin to realize they aren't who they thought.  I can't say anymore without giving the story away.<br />This book was a wonderful read.  It kept me on the edge of my seat.  I had to find out what would happen between Ariana and Laramie.  I found myself feeling sympathy for not only Ariana for being in the situation she was in but also for Laramie. He was also in a situation he wasn't comfortable or sure about. <br />Janette Oke writes such wonderful books.  Her characters are so real one almost believes they really did live in the past.  Though her books are set in the prairie times the messages in them will be current for all of time.  This book is so well written. Events happen at such a pace the reader doesn't have time to catch their breath or stop for a break.  You simply must read ahead to find out what happens.  I loved this book and was so sorry it ended.  I must say I was beginning to get a little worried toward the end when things weren't looking good for Ariana and Laramie.  This is a must read book.	2001-07-30
US	49945660	R39OAPH0GK1VOV	0060192704	479947273	Beauty Fades, Dumb Is Forever: The Making of a Happy Woman	Books	5	23	25	N	N	Hilariously Truthful	Just like on her TV show Judge Judy tells it like it is.  In this book, Judge Judy talks about everything from toilet paper rolls, to little girl beauty pageants to the death of a spouse.  And all along the way she tells some of the funniest stories.  Some of the funniest are the ones that involve her husband Jerry.  But even though she's telling funny stories about her husband and others, she is trying and succeeding at getting a point across to women--YOU ARE IN CHARGE OF YOUR LIFE.  <br />This book is excellent.  Judge Judy is quite the author.  Beauty Fades... is easy to read and teaches a lesson while being entertaining.  Every mother should give this to their young daughters to read.  Judge Judy teaches that you must have a sense of humor in life.  She also teaches to not let yourself be trampled on in the work force by your male counterparts.  Those are just a couple of the lessons given by Judge Judy. <br />Judge Judy is definitely a positive role model for any age female.  She knows what she wants and goes after it.  More women need to be this way. Keep up the excellent work on and off TV Judge Judy :)	2001-07-28
US	49945660	R3ETM5PRHTHRG8	0743206029	362049018	On the Street Where You Live: A Novel	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Guaranteed page turner	On The Street Where You Live is about Emily Graham. A lawyer who has moved to Spring Lake, New Jersey.  She has bought a home that belonged in the family in the 1800's. During the 1890's, three girls disappeared and were thought to be murdered.  One hundred plus years later two girls have disappeared and the question is will there be a third?  Some people think a reincarnated killer is on the prowl of the quiet seaside town.  Emily is leading her own investigation to see if she can solve the crimes.  After the discovery in her own backyard everyone becomes a suspect.<br />This book was like the early Mary Higgins Clark books.  It has everything a classic MHC book has:  good plot development, events happening at a quick pace so the reader doesn't have time to get bored, lots of characters (which makes guessing whodunit a lot more difficult)and above all else SUSPENSE!!<br />I could not put this book down.  I had to find out who the murderer was!!  Ms. Clark did an excellent job of writing about all the characters in a way that made it impossible to guess until the end who committed the crimes.  The reader guesses it's one character and then you turn the page and begin to wonder if it's another.  I love that about her books.  It makes reading them so much fun.  In addition, this book seemed to be well thought out. The plot was interesting and the subject of people being reincarnated and coming back years later added to the story.  It made for very interesting reading.  I would highly recommend this book to anyone, seasoned or first-time MHC reader!	2001-07-12
US	49945660	R1P3EBABG4KNYF	0385335377	224196833	Lone Eagle	Books	3	5	6	N	N	disappointing	Lone Eagle was a very disappointing book.  I consider myself a big Danielle Steel fan (I have all of her books and have read most more than once)and it pains me to give this book such a low rating.<br />Kate, the main character, seems spineless.  She's seventeen when she first meets Joe, the &quot;hero pilot&quot; of the book.  He is quite a bit older than her, being almost thirty.  Kate's father dies when she's young but other than that it seems she's led a pretty sheltered life.  Joe, who lost both parents at an early age, seems to be a real jerk from the beginning.  It is apparent early on that he will never love her as much as his planes and flying.  <br />It seems to me that the same things were stated over and over again throughout the book. Joe doesn't want to be tied down, Kate is afraid of being abandoned.  Over and over again.  I'm beginning to think Ms. Steel is running out of material to write about.  I had a hard time getting into this book.  And I became so mad with Kate at one point that I almost slammed the book shut and quit reading. But I went ahead and finished the book to see what would happen. In my opinion Andy was too good for Kate. She didn't know a good, solid thing when she seen it.  Andy was by far my favorite character in the book.  I couldn't stand Joe and his can't-commit ways. Kate was not high on my list either because of her actions.  How many years would a real woman put up with Joe's crap?  Not very many.  And yet Kate just kept letting him use her.  I am thoroughtly frustrated with this book.  It has literally given me a headache.  Hopefully Ms. Steel will come up with better storylines and characters in the future (I've read Leap of Faith which is MUCH BETTER!!!) and create some strong women that can stand alone and not be dependent on some jerk of a guy.	2001-07-06
US	49945660	R2L14SPAUXA34Z	0385332963	162196519	Leap of Faith	Books	5	19	21	N	N	DS does it again!!!	Leap of Faith is a great read.  Danielle Steel has written a wonderful book. The main character, Marie-Ange, is likeable from page one.  The reader is guaranteed to feel her joy and pain as she feels them.  Marie-Ange is faced with tragedy at the young age of 11.  She is forced to leave her home country and live with a relative who doesn't really show any emotion except hate, of everyone and everything.  I literally had tears in my eyes as I read of the horrible things that happened to Marie-Ange when she went to live with her aunt.  Hurrah for Billy.  He was definitely a blessing from the first meeting between him and Marie-Ange.<br />This book reminded me of the earlier Danielle Steel books.  It seems as if some of her more recent works were not quite as emotional and interesting as her older works.  Leap of Faith is an excellent book.  It has a good story line and moves at a good pace. The reader doesn't have time to get bored.  I felt like I couldn't read this book fast enough.  Even though it is a short 202 pages it is packed full of all the ingredients that make a DS book good to read.  Definitely a book that you'll want to read now and again in a few months or years.  This is a lasting DS novel. :)	2001-07-02
US	49945660	R3IBU3PT0BD11H	0399146652	489031643	The Cat Who Smelled a Rat	Books	4	1	3	N	N	entertaining	The Cat Who Smelled a Rat is about Qwilleran and his two cats, Koko and Yum Yum.  Qwilleran writes a twice weekly column for the Something (the local newspaper) called  the &quot;Qwill Pen&quot;.  Besides writing his column he is a local mystery-solver.  He doesn't look for mysteries to solve.  They manage to occur on their own and around him.  Of course he has the help of his two cats in solving the mystery.  In this particular book the mystery is the old, abandoned mine sites that an arsonist is lighting fires to.  Who and why are the questions Qwill needs to answer.  And of course he has help from other Pickax residents and friends.  <br />This being my first The Cat Who...book, I wasn't sure what to expect.  I was not disappointed. This book is a very light mystery.  Qwilleran and Co. are fun to read about and are always stumbling upon something that just doesn't seem quite right.  The cats are absolutely hysterical in their antics. (If you have cats, then you know the author is right on with some of their actions.)  And I think 98% of the residents in Pickax own cats!   <br />Overall I had a lot of fun reading this book.  Again, it's a very light, funny story.  It's a very good way to pass a couple evenings. I will definitely read more Cat Who...books.	2001-06-29
US	49945660	R2VJ8QBRMEMPD1	1551667886	153926185	No Other Love	Books	5	37	37	N	N	five stars and then some	No Other Love is an absolutely wonderful book.  Nicola and &quot;The Gentleman&quot; ignite sparks from their first encounter and fan the flame throughout the rest of the book.  <br />Nicola, who is a down-down-to-earth member of high society, is still in love with her former lover who has been dead for ten years.  One can almost feel her pain and longing for him.  <br />Jack, &quot;The Gentleman&quot; highwayman, is a character I think every woman would love to meet.  He is vowing revenge against Exmoor for a past wrong.  Jack is definitely a hero to fall in love with.  A sort of Robin Hood to the villagers.<br />Even though the direction this book is going in seems pretty obvious, the fun part is getting to the destination (the last page!)   This book had me smiling and practically on the edge of my seat.  Of course characters from the other two books in the series are in this one and that adds to the fun.  This was definitely my favorite of the three books.  It was completely enjoyable. (It is comparable to the Mallory Novels by Johanna Lindsey.)  You will love the characters just as much. I can't say enough about this book except that it is a MUST READ!!!  <br />(I would also like to see more books written that involve these characters)	2001-06-09
US	49945660	R12LVKICKQQG3A	1551668009	4720311	Always Dakota (Dakota Series #3)	Books	5	8	9	N	N	always macomber	As always Ms. Macomber has written a story that is not only believable but entertaining at the same time.  This book is definitely five stars plus.<br />Always Dakota really doesn't focus on just Margaret and Matt.  While they are suppose to be the main characters in this book equal time is given to Rachel and Heath, Sarah and Dennis, and Bob and Merrily.  There are also the other towns people we have grown to love such as Maddy and Jeb, Hassie, and Joshua McKenna, just to name a few.<br />I found the storyline between Margaret and Matt to be extremely touching.  There were tears in my eyes through much of their story. [...] <br />I was somewhat sad while reading this book, knowing it was the last in the trilogy.  The folks in Buffalo Valley have become friends and I hated to see them go.  It amazes me each time I read a Debbie Macomber book how I get to feeling as if these people and their problems really do exist in real life.  Ms. Macomber writes with such life-like attitudes in her characters.  This trilogy would definitely be a great movie.  Please read!!!!!	2001-06-03
US	49945660	R3KWJRK5SK30B6	0451200837	630315625	Heaven and Hell (North and South Trilogy)	Books	5	31	35	N	N	The End of a Story	Heaven and Hell, the last book in the North and South trilogy was absolutely wonderful. This book is mainly about Charles and his life in the West.  And also his trying to find a place in the world after the war.  Madeline is also a major character in this book with her journal entries to Orry.  And the evil Bent has to make his appearance throughout.  (I could have done without Bent!!)  The lives of Stanley, Virgilia, Billie, Brett, and the love-to-hate-her Aston aren't covered as much in this book.  I would have loved to learn more about Billie and Brett.  Also would have liked to read more about Marie-Louise and her Yankee husband Theo.  I found the parts of the book about them to be very touching.  <br />If you've already read the other two books you must read this one to find out what happens.  You will be in for quite a few surprises.  This book is definitely worth reading.  A classic!!!	2001-05-01
US	49945660	RKTIBKXR7S1XF	0451200829	416111056	Love and War (North and South Trilogy)	Books	5	42	45	N	N	Worth the time	Love and War is an excellent book.  It picks up where North and South left off.  From the moments before the Civil War to the days after the South's surrender this book takes a close look at the Mains and Hazards and their trials throughout the four years.<br />This book, while rather long, is fantastic. It definitely is thought provoking.  Mr. Jakes writes from the male standpoint and also the female standpoint. I also thought he conveyed the thoughts and dreams of the slaves in a realistic way.   There were characters I loved, such as Billy and Brett and ones I hated, like Ashton and James Huntoon.  The ever-evil Bent pops up in the story from time to time wreaking havoc everywhere he goes.<br />While Gone with the Wind (one of my all time favorite books) is a great book in itself it romanticizes the Civil War.  Love and War in absolutely no way romaticizes the events of the war.  This is a very realistic book with very believeable characters.  One can almost believe these two families did exist.  <br />Any fan of North and South will enjoy Love and War.  It is a rather long story but well worth the time reading it.	2001-04-14
US	49945660	R1184VC59H6Q4O	0451200810	507601736	North and South (North and South Trilogy Part One)	Books	5	13	16	N	N	Five star reading	North and South is the story of the Hazard and Main families.  George Hazard and Orry Main meet on the way to West Point.  The two form a strong bond and become lifelong friends.  In fact, the families become quite close.  The bond and friendship of the families are tested by the events of the world and by family members.  North and South tells us the events leading up to the Civil War and the impact they have on the two families.<br />This book is very well written.  Mr. Jakes conveys many emotions during the 800+ pages.  There is humor, sorrow, pity, anger, confusion, and love just to name a few.  I couldn't help but feel sorry for the families and all they went through.  Reading this book I think I got a great understanding of what the country must have been like during this time.  There is a lot of detail put into the story. It makes it very interesting to read.<br />North and South is a book definitely worth reading. It will put you on the edge of your seat and keep you turning the pages to find out what will happen next.  It doesn't matter if you're a history fanatic or not, this book is excellent.  Definitely worth the time reading it.	2001-03-19
US	49945660	R3CJZDEWEKVXAW	0743212002	880713578	Deck the Halls	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Deck the bookshelf	It was with reluctance that I started to read this book.  I had read reviews and had decided not to buy this book even though I don't miss a MHC book that is released.  I borrowed  Deck the Halls from a relative and sat down one afternoon to read it.  And boy was I surprised!  This wasn't the horrible book it was made out to be.  In fact, I quite enjoyed it.  Yes, you do find out the whodunit part quite early in the story but I found myself reading a breakneck speed to see if Luke and Rosita would be saved. I liked the comedy aspect of this book.  It added a new dimension to the story.  I found myself laughing at Petey all the way through  If you are looking for a light, quick read pick up this book.  You'll definitely enjoy it. (And now it's time for me to go buy my own copy)	2001-02-03
US	49945660	R1C85V4N4LB59Q	0553104144	676623025	Riley in the Morning	Books	3	7	7	N	N	Not the best Brown, but OK	Riley in the Morning is a book about a married couple who has separated and spend a night together seven months after their separation reliving their past together.  Riley has no idea why Brin has left him  and shows up unannounced at a birthday party Brin is hostessing to find out why and to reconcile.  During the party and for the whole night afterwards they spend time remembering how they met and fell in love and married.  Different events happen that bring back memories.  This is basically the whole plot of the book.<br />Having read several of Ms. Brown's books I consider myself a fan.This book though is not one of the best I've read.  Riley seems to be a real jerk until the end and Brin seems wimpish and not able to stand on her own.  My favorite character is Stewart,the caterer.  He definitely added life to the book during his scenes.  I can't believe Ms. Brown would put into her book Riley calling Whitney a Dim Whit and her actually worshipping him.  This seems a little belittling to women in my opinion.  <br />If you are looking for a quick read and a way to spend a quiet evening go ahead and read this book.  It was entertaining (if a bit corny).  And remember this was written and released sixteen years ago so it isn't as sophisticated as her current (new) releases.	2001-01-30
US	49945660	RG84O0311GNKA	1551665522	899729946	A Stolen Heart (Mira)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	A  Good Read Except..	As a fan of Candace Camp and because I had read the second book in this series I bought A Stolen Heart and was very anxious to read it.  I found it to be a good book even though it started out slow.  I enjoyed the characters, especially Alexandra and Lord Sebastian Thorpe.  My only complaint with this book is all the situations Alexandra found herself in.  I mean first she's kidnapped and taken to a brothel and then at a ballon show someone tries to abduct her and while Lord Thorpe is trying to rescue her they somehow end up in the ballon and are floating away to destinations unknown.  And then to top it off are picked up by a highwayman.  How many situations like this can one find themselves in?  Except for this I thought the book was really fantastic and couldn't put it down until I read the last word.  Definitely a keeper!	2001-01-27
US	49945660	R1S20LTFGN7FNV	1551666022	772804520	Dakota Home (Dakota Series #2)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Definite 5 star book	Have you ever read a book that was so good a second away from it was too long?  Dakota Home is one of those books.  The second book in the Dakota trilogy is nothing less than five stars.<br />Maddy, Lindsay Snyder Sinclair's best friend, has moved to Buffalo Valley to make a new home.  She meets Jeb McKenna, the town loner.  Maddy wants to befriend Jeb but he tries everything to avoid her until Maddy is caught in a blizzard and calls him for help.  While being trapped in the storm together for a few days at Jeb's ranch (without electricity) Jeb and Maddy become lovers.  Afterwards Jeb realizes he made a mistake in becoming lovers with Maddy because even though he has feelings for her he doesn't think he is the right man for her.  They each try to change their feelings for each other while fighting those feelings.<br />Dakota Home is a great sequel to Dakota Born.  Even though it is the second book in the trilogy it stands on it's own so if you haven't read Dakota Born you won't be lost.  Ms. Macomber refreshes your memory as to the characters and their background.  All of the characters in the first book are in Dakota Home and their stories continue.  All of the characters are such ordinary, everyday people that the book is very believable and entertaining  at the same time.  I was especially drawn to Brandon and Joanie.  Their story was very touching and well written.  It was very easy to sympathize with them. I would have liked to seen more of them in the book.<br />Dakota Home is a quick read that will hook you from the start and leave you wanting more!	2001-01-18
US	49945660	RDXSWKRHBO6IR	155166576X	486674695	Dakota Born (Dakota Series #1)	Books	5	12	13	N	N	Absolutely a five star book	Dakota Born is the story of Lindsay Synder who, deciding she needs a change in her life and needs to get away from ex-boyfriend Monte, moves to Buffalo Valley to become a teacher. Buffalo Valley is a small town that has fallen on hard times and is on the verge of becoming a ghost town.  Lindsay brings hope for the future to the town.<br />Dakota Born is an absolutely wonderful book.  The characters are very well developed.  They all interact with each other as is often the case in small towns.  The characters are all very likable (well, maybe not Monte) and believable.  I found Brandon and Joanie to be two characters in the book that I really liked and was hoping would resolve their problems  (hopefully in the second or third book they will).<br />This book runs the gammit of emotions.  There are funny parts and parts that will bring tears to your eyes.  Ms. Macomber writes about people and places that you can believe in and cheer for until the end. This is definitely a book you'll want to read more than once.	2001-01-12
US	49945660	R2WBMDSBO5Q9UT	1551666073	764216046	Promise Me Tomorrow (Mira)	Books	5	6	10	N	N	Another great book by C Camp	Promise Me Tomorrow is an absolutely wonderful book.  The storyline is great and the characters are well developed.  You will fall in love with them!  Once again Ms. Camp has told a story about a young lady who can stand on her own. It is so nice to read about a woman who is not weak or timid.  Marianne has a mind of her own and uses it well.  I don't want to tell too much of the story because I don't want to give anything away.  This is definitely a must read book by a wonderful author. This is a fast-paced read that will keep you up at night until you're finished!	2001-01-01
US	49945660	R33O00NH50SY0R	0385316879	170822767	Journey	Books	4	17	18	N	N	Good but not great	Journey is the story of Maddy Hunter, the victim of lifelong abuse. She witnesses her father being abusive to her mother and then is abused herself by her boyfriend-turned-husband Bobby Joe.  After joining a commission on violence she discovers the husband who rescued her from Bobby Joe may not be the hero she thinks.  Along Maddy's journey she meets  a part of her past and her future.<br />Ms. Steel did a fantastic job of writing about abuse, and not just physical abuse but emotional abuse, or invisible abuse, because it is harder for everyone to see.  I must say this book opened my eyes to the subject. Overall journey is a good book. I found parts to be repetitous.  I guess that could be chalked up to the fact that during Maddy's journey she keeps thinking about incidents from the past.  I just found some of these parts to be (and I hate to say this) a little boring.  <br />I think every woman should read this book.  It gets the messge of emotional and verbal abuse across very well.  Towards the end the book is very good and reminds me of Ms. Steel's early work.	2000-11-30
US	49945660	R155VLUDYB1YLZ	1551662604	795473134	This Matter Of Marriage	Books	5	58	58	N	N	Hilariously Romantic	I absolutely love the way Debbie Macomber takes ordinary people and circumstances and turns them into hours of entertainment.<br />This Matter of Marriage is the story of Hallie.  A woman approaching the big three-o who is looking for a husband and father of her future children.  Enter the newly-divorced next door neighbor.  <br />This book had me laughing out loud.  The antics of Hallie in her search for a husband were hysterical.  And the dates she went on were so funny.  And I absolutely loved the titles of the chapters.It was like watching an episode of Frasier only in print.<br />Debbie Macomber has a way of taking everyday life and writing about it in a way that is entertaining and heartwarming.  This is romance with people that could possibly be living next door to you.  I can't say enough about this book or Ms. Macomber.  Both are delightful.  This is definitely a must read....  <br />Warning:  Be prepared to laugh!!!	2000-11-20
US	49945660	R1FTO6RPSQUSHI	1551664445	912136572	To Love, Honor And Betray	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Definitely different	To Love, Honor, and Betray is different.  It is the story of a woman trying to come to grips over the betrayal of her husband.  She is also keeping a secret from her daughter that could change her daughter's feelings for her.  This book has a definite dark side that borders sinister.<br />This book has explicit sex scenes and subject matter.  It tells of a love affair between two cousins and the trials associated with their love.  There is also the storyline of a woman and her stepbrother, whose relationship is based purely on sex and the hatred of their parents.<br />One part of the book I wasn't satisfied with was the character Estelle.  She is introduced early in the book and shows up throughtout with her stepbrother but she really doesn't play a part in the story.  She does have a small part in Tara's life after she discovers the circumstances of her conception and birth.  I think the author could have given her more of a part in the book or left her out completely.<br />This book is not for everyone.  If you keep an open mind  though I'm pretty sure you'll enjoy it...	2000-11-20
US	49945660	R22AA99F7S3AJM	0671888587	918634627	I'll Be Seeing You: A Novel	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Vintage MHC	This book is vintage MHC.  It has a great plot that moves along at just the right pace and enough characters to make it suspenseful. The in vitro fertilization storyline made this book very interesting. I admired the fact that MHC did so much research on this topic to present it in a tasteful way.  I loved the way she brought the medical and ethical aspects of in vitro to this book.  I believe MHC wrote about in vitro in a way that didn't seem too technical and overwhelming.  It added just the right touch to this book.<br />This book, unlike some of her newer ones, is superb.  If you've read some of her current works and didn't like them, give this book a try.  I guarantee you won't be disappointed!!	2000-11-09
US	49945660	R2STBNFV0773S2	1551666138	147005703	Return To Promise	Books	4	13	13	N	N	Return to Promise	A fan of the Heart of Texas series, I had to read this book.  And needless to say I wasn't disappointed. Once again the characters are real and their situations are real.  Debbie Macomber did an excellent job of conveying the emotions of both Jane and Cal.  She wrote of both their feelings--Jane's wanting to be reassured and  Cal's &quot;she already knows, I don't need to tell her&quot; attitude.  Even Nicole in her quest for Cal seemed real.  I loved  the confrontation between her and Jane at the book store.  Go Jane!!!!  I love these people in Promise, Texas and Debbie Macomber for creating such wonderful people to read about.  This is real life with a happy ending!!!!  <br />P.S.  When's the next Promise, Texas book???????? I'm ready for it!!!!!	2000-10-21
US	49945660	R2ASB1UP35PL95	0373167458	959240120	If Wishes Were...Weddings (Harlequin American Romance, No. 745)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Delightfully Funny	This is the story of Libby, a Texan who goes to Rome to marry her true love. Once she arrives things seem to take on a bizarre life.  On her way home she meets Ethan Redwine and his family and from that moment on her world is turned upside down.  <br />This book has taught me to never judge a book by it's cover.  I had this book for awhile before reading it.  Now I'm sorry I waited so long.  This book is fully of funny characters and incidents.  I was cheering Ethan and Libby on from the moment they met.  I literally laughed out loud while reading this book. The author did an excellent job of making this story a light fun-to-read experience.  It is entertaining from the first page to the last.  You won't be disappointed.	2000-10-17
US	49945660	R1S7QDJGTGSB6T	0373289731	777098091	The Bride Thief (Harlequin Historical, 373)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Love and Jealousy	The Bride Thief is a story of love and jealousy.  It shows the power of true love and the evils of jealousy. Isabelle can't believe Justin would want her as his wife instead of the rich and beautiful Evelyn, but he does. She is kidnapped and taken to Talwar with him where everything is fine until Evelyn shows up.  Her extreme jealousy of Isabelle and wanting of Justin wreak havoc on Talwar.  <br />This book has some slow parts in it but I loved it anyway.  Especially when Evelyn shows up at Talwar claiming to be a changed woman.  The love between Justin and Isabelle was written well.  Their love story was a make-you-feel-good story.  The character of Evelyn was written well also.  The things she did were outrageous.  I think the author did an excellent job of bringing to life on the pages the jealousy and evilness of Evelyn.  <br />This is a must-read for anyone who loves historical fiction, a love story, or a villianess.	2000-10-06
US	49945660	R2815ZYFOGF42R	155166450X	800341073	Impetuous	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Fantastic!!!!!	I must start this review by saying I'm not a big fan of historical romance, but this book is definitely an exception. I was hooked by the end of the first page. Cassandra, the main character, isn't like most women in novels.  She is sturdy and smart.  Definitely not a damsel in distress like most romance characters. Sure she has problems, but she tackles them head-on. Her cousin reminds me of Nellie from Little House on the Prairie, and yes the aunt reminds me of Mrs. Olson.  I found myself cheering Cassandra and Phillip on in their quest for the dowery.  I just can't say enough about this book.  I read it in two days I was so hooked!!! There is enough romance and adventure that it doesn't get boring. It is definitely a must-read.	2000-10-03
US	49945660	R5VUPYGFMQYMX	0380753022	43989638	Gentle Rogue (Malory-Anderson Family)	Books	5	25	25	N	N	Enchanting	I found this book absolutely wonderful. This was the fifth Malory novel I've read and I loved it.  This is the story of James Malory, the family ex-pirate, and Georgina Anderson, a heartbroken American. Did I mention James is English?  Ms. Lindsey has brought to life two very lovable characters.  I laughed at the antics of James and his brother Anthony. And when Connie, friend of James, is added to the mix it is downright hilarious.  The love scenes between James and Georgina are without a doubt superb.  There is so much tenderness between the two.  You will fall in love with them as they fall in love with each other. Tender Rebel, the Malory novel with Anthony as the main character, is closely tied to Gentle Rogue. Some parts of the story overlap with Tender Rebel. The parts are so entertaining though I'm sure you won't mind.  Oh, one other thing, once you read one Malory novel you'll be hooked and have to read them all!!!!:o)	2000-10-03
US	49945660	R74N11ML73422	1551660806	507369571	Playboy And The Widow	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Another Great Book from Debbie Macomber	The Playboy and the Widow tells the story of a struggling widow with two  preteen daughters who meets a man describable only by the word playboy.   This book has characters who are ordinary, believeable, realistic.  It is  so nice to read about people who have everyday problems.  It is so easy to  relate to them and share in their victories. After all, not everyone is  rich and set for life. Ms. Macomber did an excellent job of combining  humor, seriousness and steamy love scenes.  Wow!!!	2000-09-09
US	49945660	R1INZ73HAP4GZ2	1551662736	213252902	Rising Tides	Books	4	12	16	N	N	Good but not great...	Rising Tides, the sequel to Iron Lace,wasn't as interesting as I thought  it was going to be.  I read Iron Lace first and couldn't wait to read  Rising Tides to find out what happened.  It seemed like the author got  writer's block a couple of times.  This book seemed to me like it was the  story of Hugh, Aurore's oldest son.  The parts where Hugh was overseas  during the war were boring and very drawn out.  The characters didn't seem  to be as well developed for this second novel.  Iron Lace seemed very  interesting with all of the flashbacks but to me the author found a good  thing (the flashbacks) and ran it into the ground.  The book did seem to  get  good towards the end. I would recommend this book if you've read Iron  Lace only so you can find out the rest of the story.  Borrow it from the  library though, it's not worth buying.	2000-08-31
US	49945660	RF2YRP59071V4	1551661527	296281836	Iron Lace	Books	5	25	28	N	N	A Very Good Book	Iron Lace is a very entertaining book.  It is set in the 1960's with many  flashbacks into the late 1800's and early 1900's.  Aurore Gerritsen is an  elderly lady who wants to let go of her life's secrets.  She  hires a black  jouralist, Phillip Benedict, to write her story.  Phillip really doesn't  want to write Aurore's story but he agrees to anyway.  There are lots of  surprises along the way. The storyline is strong and very well written.   The characters are well-defined. This book is a combination of Gone with  the Wind (as far as characters are concerned) and The Ghost (all the  flashbacks).  It is almost like two books in one. Ms. Richards had done an  excellent job in writing this book.  You will be kept on the edge of your  seat and will have to stay up all night until you get it finished.  And  then there's the sequel....	2000-08-14
US	49945660	RLZ2K5E1IRKSN	0380750864	129758344	Tender Rebel	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A great book	Wow!  I couldn't put this book down it was so good. I wanted to find out how the story ended but was sad when I finished!  I can never get enough of these Malory guys!  Tony is hilarious.  He has definitely met his match in  Ros.  This book has just the right combination of humor and romance.  You  will fall in love with Tony and Ros like the fell in love with each  other...instantly!	2000-08-01
US	49945660	R2WL4724C8U4PA	1551665026	811070645	Promise Texas (Heart of Texas, No 7)	Books	5	32	33	N	N	Good to be back	I was so glad Ms. Macomber wrote this book.  I had read all the other Heart of Texas books and was a little sad at the end of the last one. I felt like I was leaving Promise and all my friends behind.  This book was  an answer to my prayers.  I think all the plotlines keep this book  interesting.  After all if you've read the other books you are catching up  with old friends and making new ones. This is a delightful read from  beginning to end. Caution:  you won't be able to put this book down once  you pick it up.  If you've read the others you've got to go back to  Promise, Tx.  If you've not read the others stop by and say hello!	2000-07-14
US	49945660	R3H8IMUS1BLOEZ	0373708610	762745828	Falling for the Enemy (Harlequin SuperRomance, No. 861)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	A can't-put-it-down book	This books gets you hooked on the first page and doesn't let go until the last!  This is a very entertaining book.  It mixes suspense and romance wonderfully.  The characters were very well-developed.  I found myself  cheering them on.  Slone's protectiveness of Hayley really touched me.  The  story line was original I thought. There is a twist in the plot that really  surprised me.  I found myself reading the sentence over and over just to  make sure I read it right. I think that was one of the best parts of the  book.  (If by chance you've read this book already then you probably know  what I'm talking about). I got this book through a Harlequin book club so  it wasn't like I hand-picked it but I must say it is one of the best books  I've read. Definitely a must-read.<br />(Note:  My copy says Slade Reeves on  the back cover too!)	2000-07-14
US	49945660	R2GVD465GIODTH	1551660520	887845823	Promise Me Forever	Books	5	29	29	N	N	A Fantastic Book	This book about a therapist and her unwilling patient will have you cheering them on from start to finish!  I read this book in one day, it was so great I couldn't put it down.  The characters are well developed and  very believable.  The storyline is excellent.  You will fall in love with  this book.  Please read!	2000-07-14
US	49945660	R1DHZC1KNCG50S	0373833423	468591409	Lonesome Cowboy  (Heart Of Texas, No. 1)	Books	5	13	14	N	N	Refreshing	I was so glad I read this book.  It is a light and very refreshing read.  I get so tired of reading about men and women who can't stand each other and then within two to three hundred pages fall madly in love and live  happily ever after.  Come on, life isn't like that.  Thank you to Ms.  Macomber who realizes that and writes a light book about people who live  honest hard-working lives. (And there is just enough evilness in the  character of Richard to keep things stirred up a bit.)  If you're looking  for a book that is a change from streamline romance this book is the one  for you!	2000-07-14
US	49945660	R3TB9HNQR54B5V	0385333064	916616567	The House on Hope Street	Books	4	0	0	N	N	OK	I always await a new book from Danielle Steel with much excitement.  I can't wait to get my hands on the newest book.  I liked this book but I thought it was extremely sad (which life is sometimes, I realize).  I  wonder if DS drawed upon her experience with her son for this book. The  grief which Liz experienced seemed so real one can only wonder if it was  written from experience.  I agree with the reader from IL that Danielle  Steel's earlier books are much better.  What happened to her writing?  It  seems like the last few books she's written haven't been as teriffic has  her earlier books. Hopefully her next one will rate five stars!	2000-07-14
US	49945660	R39SE4LS85EZX4	1551664518	442252542	Girl In The Mirror	Books	5	16	20	N	N	Compelling story	I read this book awhile back but have definitely not forgotten about it.   It is a very compelling story of a girl, Charlotte, who has facial  deformities.  She is brave enough to have surgery done that not only  corrects the problem but turns her into a beauty.  But then something  happens that leaves her having to decide which is more important: beauty or  health.  <br />I found myself experiencing a wide range of emotions while  reading this book.  I was sad for her and was cheering her on in other  parts of the book. Once I started reading I could not stop.  I had to find  out what happened to her!!!  This is a must read book!!!!!!!!!	2000-07-08
US	49945660	R49QTHPK0TYQ5	0446519723	17564972	Where the Heart Is: A Novel	Books	5	0	0	N	N	An entertaining book	I must admit I was hesitant to get this book.  I wasn't sure if I'd like it and everyone it seemed had said it was great.  I didn't want to be disappointed.  I bought the book and read it in a couple of days.  I was  not disappointed.  The author has written a touching story of a seventeen  year old girl, Novalee, who gets dumped at a Wal-Mart by her boyfriend.  (Did I mention she's pregnant?)  This girl has no money, no family,  basically no nothing.  She then meets with some of the most original  characters I've ever read about.  The  author has done such a good job of  making all the characters seem real. I thought she did an excellent job of  bringing the characters to &quot;life&quot; on the pages.  She captured the  spirit of the South wonderfully.  This book provided me with many laughs  and also brought me to tears.  And I can't say that about many books. The  only thing I didn't like about the book was the ending.  It seemed to me  like the book ended suddenly, like all of a sudden she ran out of time.   Some people might say this book is cheesy and far-fetched but I think if  you give it a chance you will like, if not love, it.	2000-06-29
US	49945660	R3M2ZZB5K0KG4W	0385492758	710401658	Where You Belong	Books	4	3	4	N	N	A Good Read	I first bought this book and then read the reviews.  I was disappointed when I read them; I thought I had wasted my money.  But when I read the book I couldn't understand why so many people didn't like it.  Reading a  book written in first person instead of third was different but I found  that I liked it.  It was almost like Val had written a long letter to me  telling me about her life.  As for the conflict with her mother and  brother, I didn't think it was overwritten.  After all if you are telling  someone about your life you will more than likely tell more details than if  someone else  was telling your story.  They wouldn't know everything to  tell.  I felt sorry for Val when she found out about Tony's deception, and  I don't know if I'd feel the same way had this book been written third  person.  You must have an open mind when you read this as there aren't a  lot of books written in this style.  I haven't read but one other book by  this author so I can't really compare this book to her others but I really  don't think that is too fair to do considering this was written in a  different style.  I hope you enjoy this book as much as I did!	2000-06-20
US	49945660	RTQ4ACQAXY6YR	0684835983	728320796	Before I Say Good-Bye	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Lacking	I'm a big fan of MHC.  I had read some of the reviews and  couldn't wait to get the book and read it myself.  But I'm disappointed.  I found the book hard to get into and stay into.  I usually love the fact that there  are so many characters so you never really know until the end who done it,  but I found this book with all of its characters a little confusing.  I  think this book was lacking the usual suspense found in Ms. Clark's books.   The whole idea of communicating with the dead is interesting but I don't  think it was a good basis for a book like this. I hope in the future Ms.  Clark sticks with her old style of writing and puts more suspense into the  book.	2000-06-13
US	49945660	REBQGX28KUFN2	038531437X	698730676	The Wedding	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Another great book by Danielle Steel	Although this book starts out a little slow it gains speed and stays going the rest of the way.  The characters are interesting and they have real life problems. I agree with the other review that this is like one of  Danielle Steel's older books.  Some people might not like the Hollywood  aspect of the book and complain that it's too make believe but isn't that  what fiction is all about?  To get away from everything?  If you've read at  least one Danielle Steel book and liked it,I guarantee you'll love this  one.	2000-04-18
US	49945660	R3QY2LF9RF9AYX	1551664569	29451871	Scarlet Angel	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Wow! What a read!	This is one of those books that you will pick up and not put down until you've read the last word. It is a book about manipulations and secrets and all around evil.  Camilla, the main character, is greedy and self-centered.  Her only concern is what she wants.  Will she get what she wants?  How  many people will pay?  It's worth the reading to find out!   Enjoy!	2000-03-11
