US	49955484	R2Y6XR69UPNJZ	4431702660	562702678	Competitive-cum-Cooperative Interfirm Relations and Dynamics in the Japanese Semiconductor Industry	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Interfirm networks in Japanese semiconductor industry	Japanese manufacturers are less vertically integrated than their American or European counterparts. They tend to be smaller and more specialized. For example, Toyota outsources about 75% of components; in the US only Chrysler reaches this degree. But Japanese firms dont organize the vertical chain through arms length transaction. Instead, they rely on a web of long-term, informal relationships between firms up and down the vertical chain. Unlike the <BR>hostile relationships many American and European firms have with subcontractors, in Japan, these relationships involve a much higher degree of cooperation and delegation of a more sophisticated set of responsibilities to subcontractor. This kind of relationship is cited as an excellent example of the trust-based interfirm networks which substantially reduce the transaction cost involved in transactions along the value chain, and is known as the vertical keiretsu. <BR>Such interfirm networks have persisted since the Meiji period, and were constructed in an effort to reduce the uncertainty engendered by market fluctuation. If its not the commodified items, frequent switching of subcontractor could result in instability in the quality and quantity of it. With trust-based long-term relationship, they could expect timely delivery, quality control, and stable supply. But this trust-based long-term relationship introduced the rigidity and inflexibility to cope with the dramatic shifts in the environment. The first oil crisis posed a serious threat to the viability of Japanese firms. Cut-throat competition over shrunken international market drove the Japanese firms to enhance competitiveness in all front from cost, quality and the lead time. In doing so, they changed the dynamics of the networks. What they introduced is the subject of this book, in the words of the author, competitive-cum-cooperation governance, in short, CCC governance. The author deals with the interfirm governance in Japanese semiconductor industry, in particular. But the findings could be applied to other industries like auto, electronics. <BR>CCC governance was developed to introduce the uncertainty in the vertical chain to create market-like effect. While maintaining cooperative links, semiconductor manufacturers imposed several competition-generating measures: strategic pricing, multiple sourcing, and altering procurement sourcing. In strategic pricing, interacting companies cooperatively developed a schedule for reducing prices. In multiple sourcing, semiconductor companies purchased the same parts and materials from multiple sources, so that competition took place among them. While awarding stable cash flows to subcontractors, semiconductor manufacturers could secure the continuous improvement of price and quality. According to data the author provides, the prices were much lower than the spot market transactions. In the words of the author, With CCC governance the Japanese semiconductor firms secured both the allocative efficiency which is the feature of market governance, and the non-allocative efficiency which is the feature of hierarchical governance. <BR>Now you might ask Is there any reason to coin another neologism? There is already the mountain of seemingly different words which actually have one and the same reference. Maybe. The vertical keiretsu could cover the same phenomenon. But authors intention lies in demonstrating the feature of network which has both cooperation and competition while securing the competitiveness. I think author persuasively illustrates it. And better, he does so not with case study which is hard to represent the population, but with the survey technique. This feature, however, is the weakness at the same time. The author succeeds in drawing out overall picture of the industry. But it lacks the rich depth of the usual business case studies. This makes the book somewhat dry. But I think it worth reading, if you are interested in the Japanese business.	2003-04-24
US	49955484	R3N63QRAKVACWE	0520208897	162791358	Alliance Capitalism: The Social Organization of Japanese Business	Books	5	3	4	N	N	A network analysis of the horizontal keiretsu	There has been the deluge of books and articles on Japanese keiretsu. But this book published a decade ago (1992) is still one of the best. There are so many good enough accounts on the vertical keiretsu appeared in the Toyotas value chain. But not so, when it comes to the horizontal keiretzu. There is no shortage of materials but most of them are no more than anecdotal case studies or, at best, cursory impressions. I cant capture why they form such a long-term ties based on what interest at all, for example. The advantage of vertical keiretsu is obvious and well described. But what is the economic foundation of horizontal keiretsu? Is it mere social club of economic elites? Nobody could think so. The network structure (or network form) of horizontal keiretsu is well documented, such as main bank, cross shareholding, sacho-kai, and the preferential trading. But those are merely links forming the network. The network is more than the sum of links. Its the linkage of links and it has contents. Links reproduce itself for something flows between nodes. This book plugs the gap systematic explanation of horizontal keiretsu with network analysis. In doing so, the author mobilizes not only qualitative data from interviews and business history but also extensive quantitative data to generalize his remarks to level of the population of the Japanese businesses. The author begins with describing the network structure of keiretsu from chapter 3 to 4. Then the remaining chapters deal with how the network formed and how it operates in real business environment. Namely, those chapters deal with the contents of network. Now you might retort whats the difference from other materials? This book would supply better and well-organized illustration of keiretsu. But arent those features common in other works? <BR>Maybe. But the most inspiring piece lies in the use of image. Keiretsu is the interfirm network and its not unique on Japan but the ubiquitous phenomenon all overthe world. Usually, they use the image of coalition, as it has developed in the game theory. The interfirm network, however more stable it is than arms length trading, is usually depicted with the image of coalition. The coalition, particularly in the form of game theory, is relatively fluid relationship. The coalition comes and goes according to the logic of strategic self-interest. This is the reality of business such as strategic alliance. Yesterdays foe could be todays friend. For example, Apple shook hands with IBM to make PowerPC. But such an image doesnt fit into the long-term relationship of horizontal keiretsu over more than a generation. Affiliation in a keiretsu group is considered as permanent one. Instead, Gerlach uses the metaphor of alliance to illustrate the features of Japanese keiretsu. The image of alliance comes from anthropological fieldworks. It suggests long-term social relationship that links kinship groups over generations. The self-interest is also the driving-force in the kinship alliance. Kinship groups establish the long-term ties with other kinship groups through swapping women. Through this tie, they exchange resources like calling on in times of need or for protection of ones own group. Those are valuable resources in primitive societies, with no doubt, and this relationship is long-term by nature. But in such a relationship, self-interest is tempered by the central role played by group history. <BR>Horizontal keiretsu emerged from the self-interest of member firms to stabilize the flow of resources. So at the center of group have lain the bank and sogo shosha. During the early postwar period, the capital and raw materials were scarce and most needed resources to be secured, and that, affiliation in the group opens doors to trade with other group members, and with the trading partners those firms have. But once the network is put into action, it takes the life of its own: It was instutionalized in the routine of business. Just as firms seek to position themselves advantageously in their industry and in the broader business community, so too do groups as a whole. Keiretsu network, for instance, expands itself with new memberships. Most of expansion has involved the firms that compete against firms in other keiretsu. Keiretsu compete against keiretsu for positioning in the business community. By expanding to include group-level representation in a broad variety of fields, the group simultaneously preempts market opportunities, enhances its prestige in the larger business community, and diversifies risk across a spectrum of industries. The power and prestige of the group make the individual member firm more appealing to prospective business partners and improves its status in the larger business community. The fortunes of group and companies are in this way intertwined. In other words, affiliation in group translates into marrying with the group. The individual firms act as if they are the members of the clan. This kind of interfirm network could be facilitated for the unique Japanese business history. 3 out of outstanding 6 (now 4) groups are ex-zaibatsu (industrial group). And some influences in early postwar period are crucial in forming the keiretsu. <BR>But this is the problem of this book: no convincing explanation about why such alliance is found only in Japan? This book offers good enough description of the phenomenon. I cant help asking Is this enough explanation? Unfortunately I dont think so. If you have this kind of question, I recommend, Ulrike Schaedes Cooperative Capitalism. This book has a very long-term standpoint from Tokugawa period to the present. This book is not about keiretsu. But you could understand the institutional background of Japanese business.	2003-04-23
US	49955484	R1V4DDW7R17TW6	0881323500	177114754	Industrial Policy in an Era of Globalization: Lessons from Asia (Policy Analyses in International Economics)	Books	4	5	7	N	N	It¡¯s the politics, stupid	This booklet is intended not to be theoretical breakthrough or carving out amazing new facts, but to be a policy recommendation in the style of working papers from OECD or IMF which could be downloaded freely from their website. <BR>East Asian developmental states of Japan, Korea, and Taiwan, or their policy tool dubbed as industrial policy garnered enviable encomiums in the 1980s and the early 1990s. There were so many speculations on whether its industrial developmental experiences could be copied into the contexts of other developing countries. World Banks The East Asian Miracle (1993) was a good example of such trend. Even the stalwart of lasses-faire capitalism, the States, tinkered with the idea. Government-led establishing of SEMATECH was the instance. Now you can witness the stratospherical-scale experiment in China. But the more-than-a-decade-protracted stagnation in Japan, spectacular debacle of Asian financial crises seeded the suspicion about the model and it blossomed to the full-blown denial at the turn of the century. This monograph is another nail in the coffin. <BR>The industrial policy is the policy set of promotion/protection. The state nurtured target industries which could be internationally competitive to step up the ladder of international comparative advantages. The targeted industry should be protected from the hostile environment up to being internationally competitive, and promoted with directing national resources to that industry. This, of course, bucked the basic premises of market economics with distorting the flow of resources. But authors are not concerned with principles, but whether this policy tool was effective at all. In a nutshell, they are skeptical. According to their econometric data, targeting served to shorten economic recovery, at best. It could be claimed that in the early stage of postwar recovery, the state intervention contributed to some degree. But its dubious whether its efficacy could be extended after theinitial takeoff stage, in Rostows words. The industrial policy is more than economics but its the issue of political economy, in other words its prone to be captured by vested interests. Its the de facto consensus that since the 1970s, Japan could not be called as the developmental state: the political economy swayed to negative way to the efficiency of economy since then and its the fundamental cause of Japans stagnation. The point is summed up as Two Japans: the inefficient sectors are parasites on the efficient sectors like electronics, auto. This has dragged the overall efficiency of the economy down. Authors argue that the applicability of industrial policy i.e. promotion/protection is not hindered by WTO regime for there a lot of loopholes available under current rule books. The issue at hand is the efficacy and the political economy. The efficacy is questionable according to data. And it would be next to impossible to overcome the issue of political economy which could insulate the state from the vested interest. <BR>The points this monograph poses are not that unknown. But the manner presenting in the form of literature is the problem of this book. Econometric data are interesting and inspiring. But they are employed to support points. I think they could have organized the points in more straightforward way. Points are scattered, not seamlessly sorted out.	2003-04-21
US	49955484	R560VBFEVAJQJ	1584880260	8465867	The Japanese Electronics Industry (The Electronics Industry Research Series)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	An Introduction to the Japanese Electronics Industry	This is a Japanese part of the series dealing with Asian electronics industry from Korean, Taiwan, Chinese, and Singapore. Asian economies excel at electronics and IT industries. You must have at least one product made in that area. Its no wonder that there has been a flood of books on the electronics industry of those economies. The Japanese one, in particular, has been the centre of attention for its spectacular performance. Nobody hasnt heard of the brand names like SONY, Toshiba, or Panasonic. But most interests are directed to the secret formulae of their success stories or the devastating impacts on their domestic industries of US or Europe. There are rare cases of impartial and comprehensive mappings. This book is intended to plug this gap. This book is neither academic works nor impression-driven journalistic sketch, but is intent on informing basic facts and instilling the outlook of the industry in the readers. In doing so, this book begins from basic features of Japan in general, the overview of Japanese economy, the share of the industry in the overall economy and the history of the industry, to the present of the industry. Their presentation of the industry is loaded with statistic and cases of individual companies. Authors do their best to provide readers the concrete image of the industry. Sure, the writing style is bound to be dry and, at worse, boring. But this book is the good enough step to begin with.	2003-04-21
US	49955484	R3LER2QBADQA80	0761956042	355516155	Introducing Social Networks (Introducing Statistical Methods series)	Books	4	31	36	N	N	A textbook on network analysis	Its now the fashion to use the network analysis in social sciences. Originated from sociology, its easy to find the term of network in top class journals like Strategic Management Journal or Research Policy. Alas, there are not many primers available on the market, however. Its a weird thing. Without some decent introduction, you cant read even a piece of article which comes out in Social Networks, the official journal of network analysis field. The network analysis might be the only sociological methodology which attains the level of economics in terms of the mathematical modeling. Almost all articles adopting network analysis tell the forms and contents of network in number. They use the dedicated applications, such as Ucinet or Structure, to compute and plot the networks, and test hypotheses. In doing so, they deploy idiosyncratic terminology which would baffles uninitiated novices. There are some textbooks like Wasserman and et als Social Network Analysis : Methods and Applications or Scotts Social Network Analysis: A Handbook. But they are dry and boring: terse description with no enlightening examples. In this regard this book is the absolute savior. This book has two strong features:<BR>1. A plethora of example: textbook is expected to introduce neophyte to utterly unknown field. Writer should not assume the reader would have read or even hear of any part of the field. Of course, its a daunting task. But there is some usual prescription: explain with real world examples. This book is full of examples from real field works done in France and America. Even if you cant figure out what the hell of that explanation of term, like multiplexity, equivalence, or centrality, at all, you can easily grasp the meaning and applicability of the term through lengthy examples from various researches. <BR>2. Systematic organizing: The network analysis is not confined to drawing out the network structure (or graph). The real focus is always directed to the contents of the networks: What resources are flowing through the network? How is the community or clique structured? What is the impact of network position of individual node in that structure on the members behavior? To answer these questions, researcher, first, should map out the network structure. Ch.1 to 4 deals with the form of network (or, in the words of network analysis, network structure). And ch.5 to 8 tackles what kind of contents is expected in the network and how to evaluate them. With following chapter by chapter, you can capture how the network analysis could map out the social world and interpret it with not much difficulty. Network analysis is proposed not mere research methodology, but now the general theory of social world. So they prefer the term of structural analysis to the word of network analysis: they attempt to solve the dichotomy between the society and individual, or between integration and conflict with their own image of social world. After the fall of functionalism, a bunch of theorist has come and gone with bold claims that they have the answer to the conundrum. Such big names of Giddens and Bourdieu are the good example. Giddens structuration theory gained popularity in this regard. But it has waned away. The problem is this: theoretical framework of structuration theory is gorgeous. But there is no key to where one should start the research at the real field. For example, the concept of power plays the organizing role in his grandiose framework to integrate all fragments he collected from various sources. The resulting profile is lovely and glowing. But the concept is too plastic or at worse elusive, when it comes to real work. Nobody would reject his conception of duality. But its easier to be said than done in research. Its no more than eclectic artifice. Here comes the structural analysis. I think the theoretical position of structural analysis is fully compatible with Giddens (for example Nan Lins theoretical architecture). But its more than that: it provides us with the unit of analysis, the network. This book is not displaying the level of theoretical sophistication of Nan Lins. But you could capture what the picture of social world the structural analysis would depict. This book is carefully constructed to introduce the reader to the social world the structural analysis depicts in the incremental cascading from personal network to total network, to network position, to power to global dynamic of total network.	2003-04-18
US	49955484	R203JWTE6HF429	0313211957	434102241	The Greek View of Life.	Books	5	9	10	N	N	The Background of Greek Thoughts	Textbooks on the history of philosophy tend to be remotely dry. They just summarize the text in arid words, and then skip to the next philosopher in the chronicle order. Writers of those textbook seem to think that we should rever the philopophers, do not understand them. Reading through them only gives us the superficial impression and worse, the knowledge weve got is likely to be evaporated to the oblivion. We cant imagine that those philosophers lived their own life and breathed the air just like us. But the texts they left to us have what to say. And its closely related to its own time. To understand those texts, we need to know their worlds, for the text says about the world its written. Greek philosophy and literature also should be apprehended with such background knowledge. For example, there were no professional philosophers isolated from the rest of the society in Archaic Greek world, like professors of philosophy we could see in our Universities. Greek philosophers told about their worldly affairs. So Aristotle was mastered that much various fields from political sciences, ethics, aesthetics, cosmology to botany. In other word, we should know their life to figure out what they say at all. Greek philosophy was not isolated from the society unlike contemporary philosophy. This book should be definitely helpful to know their time. As the title of the book implies, this deals with how the Greek saw their world. Each chapter describes the way they see elements of their world from the religion, the state, the individual, to the art. With closing the last page of the book, I bet you could illustrate what was the life of the Greek in your mind.	2003-04-03
US	49955484	R2NOBMMHIZWOJC	019520493X	394469439	Heritage of Music (4 Volume Set)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	An Encyclopedic Reference of Western Classical Music	Enjoying music must be the demanding toy. It exacts not only our time and money, but also knowledge. You should be acquainted with a heap of idiosyncratic terminology, and be able to distinguish masterwork from the mass of lemon. There is no easy workout. All you could do is just listen and listen. Here comes in the critics who coach us what is good or bad. But the problem is this: day by day, new pieces are flooding the market and just reviewing only the title is a daunting task. So most listen what they find surreptitiously. <BR>But the merit of classical music is that all the works are already canonized and there are well established critical mechanics. You dont need to pick up by yourself. The valuables have been culled over generation and generation. All you have to do is registering the list of the established canon in your mind and choose between players. <BR>This book is written to help audience with encyclopedic survey of masters in Western classical music. This is not the textbook for the class on the history of music, but the reference for the common audience. Subjects are restricted to well-known masters like Bach, Mozart, Brahms or Prokofiev. The discography-like descriptions are provided for masterpieces of each composer by over 50 critics. With no doubt, words are not that suitable to demonstrate the beauty of the music. So writers seem to assume that readers have already given ear to the music or at least have CDs at hand. Its not that problem for the music can tell itself only with sound in the note not with words in the paper. But the real beauty of this book lies in its comprehensive approach. It offers not only the accounts on music itself, but relates it to the rest of society. Not only they explain each composers personal life, but also they set them in the context of their times. Music tells itself. But knowing the social settings that the music was played and enjoyed is definitely helpful to the modern audience. For such purpose, this book contains thousands of illustration showing the social and historical background. This book could, in this regard, be read something of a  history in the view of music. This heightens the joy of reading. <BR>But this book has some weaknesses. First, this book is targeted to somewhat advanced reader. So there is no explanation about some basic terminology like polyphony, cord, or counterpoint. Those should be the basic. And this kind of writing style leads to pedantic and textbook-like reservedness, in some cases. But overall, this book is readable and informative.	2003-04-03
US	49955484	R3GTG4XR7CAQRV	0399524169	352669293	The Grad School Handbook	Books	4	11	13	N	N	ABC of getting into the grad school	It goes without saying that deciding to take graduate course is one of the most serious decisions in your life. It means you decide the path the rest o life will follow. For such a critical matter, any amount of information shouldnt be enough. You should do your best in collecting information to decide whether to enter the graduate program, which school you would enroll, how you could get into that school. Its not easy task at all and demands your time and money. This book is written to help you in that process. This book opens with recommending reconsidering whether the graduate program is the right one you should choose Once you are determined, you should think what will lie in your way such as how to fund your course, how to choose the right school. And then you should prepare to documents such as application form, the statement of purpose (SOP) or essay, transcript, recommendation and GRE or GMAT score. These papers are decisive in whether you could get into wanted school and there are some rules you should keep. <BR>This book offers you how to start the process. Yep other similar material would help you get through it. But the beauty of this book is this: this book show you how those papers would be considered in the department. In other word, this book illustrates the process from the insiders view: who read the papers and how they evaluate them. Knowing the criteria of your reader is definitely helpful to win the admission notice. And that, authors took interviews of professors and students to depict the real process. <BR>This is a small book and you need other books to win the process. For example, youd better read some other book on writing SOP. But this is ultimately the right place to begin with.	2003-04-02
US	49955484	R3ULMUC46QHITD	0765808501	518566241	The Obstructed Path: French Social Thought in the Years of Desperation 1930-1960	Books	5	1	6	N	N	The intellectual history of French Thoughts in the 20th C	The Structuralism asserts that text tells itself and there is no place the author dwell on. With no doubt, the text we read is not the one the author wrote or intended. It's the text reconstructed on our own. According to the Structuralism, the intellectual history is the waste of time and effort. For this field traces the background of the text: what was the zeitgeist of author; what kind of influences could be spotted in the text. <BR>In fact, text could be read in itself with no background knowledge of the text. But I suspect that kind of reading is not sufficient to depict the overall picture of the text. We always adopt or reject some part of text or another. I think such treatment of text could be done effectively only when the overall points of the text are settled down. The text is not isolated from the environment. The text itself is some kind of social action. If not, why do we write the text at all? Writing could not be a simple dabbling, but a painstaking endeavor. It's written to communicate with others. So the understanding some text should be the knowing where was the text located, in other word, the readers of text. Reading the intellectual history is, therefore, definitely helpful to understand the text. <BR>Hughes is the right person to write such a history. He is the master in the intellectual history. this book is one of the trilogy which covers the modern Western thoughts. This book is the intellectual history of the French thoughts from the 1930s to the 1960s. This period is the cradle of Annal school, Existentialism, French phenomenology and Structuralism. Hughes argues that those schools were obsessed with the changed relationship of the intellectuals with society. As we can see from French enlightenment and the Dreyfus affair, French intellectuals enjoyed the influences over public sphere. Since the 17th C. French intellectuals didn't have any doubt about their role of steering the France. They even thought they set the direction of the Western civilization. For example, the very basic principles of democracy, liberty and equality were manifested in the French Revolution, and the very conception of rationality was formalized by Descartes. But World War I cast doubt over those doctrines. And it was commensurate to the suspicion of the role of intellectuals. It seems that the postwar West did not follow the principles they proclaimed. The Fascism was the good example. French thoughts of this period like Existentialism, Structuralism and so on are offspring of this intellectual situation. Hughes illustrates the circumstances they faced in the graphic way. And better, his recapping of major thinkers of those schools are skillful. I recommend this book to who want to understand those schools better.	2003-03-30
US	49955484	R3O7K36GIKFJ8B	0198292155	780884335	The Japanese Firm: Sources of Competitive Strength (Clarendon Paperbacks)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A basic material in the Japanese study	This book is one the most cited material in the field of Japanese study. From the late 1980s to the early 1990s, studying the Japanese firms was a fad in social sciences. There was a deluge of papers and books on that subject. It must be the golden age of Japanology. And this book could be regarded as the fruit of such activities. <BR>First, editors themselves are the leading figures in the Japanese study, and articles in this book were written by distinguished scholars too. So you can expect the quality papers. <BR>Second, almost all the issues raised up to that time are tackled in this volume from organizational learning in the Japanese firm, quality control, lean production, Japanese-style R&D, the human resource management in the Japanese firm, to keiretsu. <BR>But just like all other things in the life, this book has its own weaknesses.<BR>First, as you can guess from the publication date of this book (1994) and the subtitle of the book (sources of competitive strength), there is no account of why Japanese firms are mired in difficulties now. Poster children of Japanese business like Nissan, Toshiba, Hitachi all have suffered over the 1990s and now. There is no explanation for such troubles. It's natural for most didn't imagine the Japanese economy has stumble more than a decade up to 1995. They thought downturn caused by bubble bursting should be short-term problem. So we can't pillory authors for this weakness. But now it's the obvious problem. <BR>Second, as we can guess from the name of editor (Aoki), most articles are confined to incentive or contractual approach in dealing with the firm. Some articles adopt the organizational learning approach. Other approaches on organization than contract theory are few in this book. It goes without saying that this problem doesn't stand for the jaundiced eye of the editors. At the time this book was published, other approaches in organizational studies were not fully competitive. <BR>In spite of these two obvious flaws, you'd better read related articles in this book if you are intended to write the paper about the Japanese firm. As I said, articles in this book could be considered as the fruit of pervious studies on the Japanese firm.	2003-03-30
US	49955484	R21OXEGUAG7F6S	0875814484	160721861	Statistics for Social Data Analysis, 4th Edition	Books	4	11	13	N	N	For students of social sciences	This book is a statistics textbook for students of social sciences, not high-end users. I read earlier edition of this book in undergraduate statistics course. In that course, only basics of statistics were instructed. In social sciences, they don't need to know A to Z of statistics for all they have to know is what the function of SPSS or SAS means and what kind of data is needed and how the data would be analyzed in the statistics packages. There is no need to derive the functions in the textbook mathematically as they do in the courses of statistics department. We should understand what the function means, not how it is derived. This book is written in this regard. Unlike orthodox statistics textbook, this book tackles only the meaning of the statistical methods. In doing so, this book illustrates the methods with various field works and SPSS exercises. This is the stance most textbook written for social scientists takes. It seems that this book succeed in achieving the goal. Explanations are succinct and examples are apposite. <BR>But this book is not that useful when you should do real research. Most social sciences articles use more advanced methods than what this book introduces. This book is good enough to beginners, but not so to who would be real researcher. At that point, you should have read more advanced ones already. If not, you couldn't read a piece of article in the common journals.	2003-03-30
US	49955484	R1QWUM20J8ABCF	038547993X	540214781	The Golden Age of Zen: The Classic Work on the Foundation of Zen Philosophy	Books	5	6	8	N	N	The real history of Zen	This book deals with the heyday of Zen Buddhism, Tang dynasty. The purpose of this book is introducing the Westerners to the Zen Buddhism. In other word, this is a Zen primer. Zen master Suzukis An Introduction to Zen Buddhism is widely read for this purpose. But this book is somewhat different from Suzukis. Just like Suzukis book, this book follow the standard format of Zen primer. Listing koans (about the koan, see my review on Suzukis book) chronically with the related anecdotes. But unlike Suzukis, Wu takes the stance of interpreter not of storyteller. Storytelling is the classic way to introducing Zen Buddhism (for the reason, see my review on Suzukis). But in that way, beginners cant grasp even the basic of Zen Buddhism. So Wu approaches somewhat differently. He begins with why Zen should take place in China, not in India. He points out the influence of Taoism. Taoism has, in fact, affinity to Buddhism and its the mindset the Chinese understood foreign thought, Buddhism. So Wu argue that we cant figure out Zen without understanding basic principles of Taoism. Suzukis book, for example, represents and explains the principles of Zen from the tradition of Buddhism. But unfortunately it seems not that good way to figure out Zen. Like other thoughts, Zen could be best understood against the historical backdrop. And its the way this book employs and the beauty of this book: each principle of Zen is explained against Taoism and historical backdrop. Thought could be fully understood when the behind motives are grasped, I think. Yep, such works are not hard to see in Buddhology. But this book is written in the plain English to be steadfast to the intention of Zen primer.	2003-03-29
US	49955484	RYP24MF1CG986	0802130550	760708497	An Introduction to Zen Buddhism	Books	5	5	8	N	N	The most basic material on Zen	Zen Buddhism was systemically introduced to the West by Zen master Suzuki. He wrote several books on Zen in plain English and those books are still counted as basic materials to understand Zen. This book cites numerous anecdotes of the heyday of Zen Buddhism, Tang dynasty. This is the typical style of Zen primer. <BR>Buddha attacked the Hinduist concept of atman. Atman is similar to the Platonic forms, that is, all phenomenons have their substance. This way of thought is deeply ingrained in our language. For example, I am always I. When I was 5 years old, when I was 20 years old, and when I will be 60 years. And that, we think, with no questioning, those Is should have the same identity. And our friends should be so. But those I and she/he could not be the same ones. What always is there is only the name we give. You could know it with no being lost in thought. Buddha taught that the object that our attention is directed lacks the substance and what we really recognize is only the name. The enlightenment, the ultimate goal of Buddhism, is just breaking through the boundaries of that kind of mundane thought. But achieving such breaking is near-impossible. We could understand what Buddha said but knowing is not doing. <BR>Mahayana Buddhism built up heady mountain of scriptures. By the 12 c., it amounted to 160 thousands pages in total. Zen suspected that the enlightenment couldnt be achieved with reading scripts and meditation. It is best reached not by the study of scripture, the practice of good deeds, rites and ceremonies, or worship of images, but by shaking up ordinary inertia. Zen Buddhism employed Koans to do it. Koan is a brief paradoxical statement or question used as a discipline in meditation. The effort to solve a koan is designed to exhaust the analytic intellect and the will, leaving the mind open for response on an intuitive level. There are about 1,700 traditional koans, which are based on anecdotes from ancient Zen masters. They include the well-known example \\"When both hands are clapped a sound is produced; listen to the sound of one hand clapping.\\" This should sound the at best illogical at worst babble. But koan is the typical way to reach to the enlightenment in Zen Buddhism. And it is inevitable to write the history of Zen Buddhism is to write the list of koans. This book is no exception. But each koan had its own situation. So each koan should be introduced with its own locale. And this determines the writing style of the Zen primers: almost all Zen primers take the form of storytelling. And Zen master Suzuki is an excellent raconteur. <BR>But Suzuki restrains himself to storyteller, not interpreter of each koan. So you should guess the meaning of koans by yourself. This is the very tradition of Zen-related books. Suzuki could put the meaning of koans in words. But such wording cant catch the very essence of koan. You should realize it by yourself. All the cues are in this book.	2003-03-29
US	49955484	R23DRTSH071UAN	0415060761	150573420	The Globalization of High Technology Production: Society, Space and Semiconductors in the Restructuring of the Modern World	Books	5	3	3	N	N	For who study the semiconductor industry or globalization	This book is somewhat outdated. Its published in 1989. Since then so much have happened to the semiconductor industry. But if you are interested in the incipient period of the industry, this book is worth reading. This book deals with the internationalization (not globalization) of the American semiconductor industry into Southeast Asia and Europe in the 1970s and 1980s. Their relocation of production into those region was the reaction to the competition from domestic competitors and Japanese makers. The same strategy was adopted by American electronic industry. As we all know now, the main purpose of the movement is the effort to enhance cost competitiveness. That kind of movement is now dubbed as the internationalization. Current globalization is different from it. But without understanding it, we cant fully figure out globalization for globalization is based and expanded on the international division of labor the internationalization constructed. <BR>I recommend this book to who want to understand the process of globalization in depth and those who study the history of the semiconductor industry.	2003-03-20
US	49955484	R2CG36VV5D4G61	0226509230	73999838	Hegel's Phenomenology of Spirit: A Commentary Based on the Preface and Introduction	Books	5	6	7	N	N	One of the best exegesis of Hegel's Phenomenology of the Min	This book is cited as one of the best exegesis of Hegel's 'Phenomenology of the Mind'. As all classics of German philosophers, Hegel's masterpiece is almost inaccessible. Ive heard that Hegels Phenomenology of the Mind is one of the three most abstruse works in the Western philosophy. The other two are Heideggers Being and Time and Whiteheads Process and Reality. These works are thorny to comprehend, not to mention just to read through, for the originality of the idea presented in the works. So they are littered with the neologism even their contemporaries never heard of. The established terminology is not suitable to articulate totally novel thoughts. Hegels work is not the exception in this regard. The Phenomenology of the Mind is regarded as the culmination of German idealism: Hegel presented his answer in the works to the enigma Kant put in The Critique of the Pure Reason, Ding an Sich (Thing in itself). And the answer was the unknown framework at that time. That kind of thought cant be put in terminology at hand, but should be minted with coined word on its own. But such wording cant be easy to grasp for the author himself must be not satisfied with his own wording. This book is about the terminology of Hegels Phenomenology of the Mind. The author explains organizing concepts appeared in the Preface and Introduction. The preface and introduction of Hegels Phenomenology of the Mind is notorious for its inaccessibility. Those parts dont introduce readers to anything, but recap all of the following chapters in its own neologism. That lengthy introduction could be understood only if you finished the last page of the book. Actually the introduction is the conclusion of the book. Hegels stance in the Introduction could be reached only through the incremental logical ascending of the following chapters. Terminology in the Introduction could appear only when that kind of argumentation finished. So usually they are recommended to read the Introduction as conclusion. But such feature is a good point to get the gist of the book. So the author of this exegesis positioned there to overview Hegels world. W. Marxs approach seems effective. Its the good spot not only to outline Hegels points, but also to compare Hegel with other German idealists like Kant, Fichte and Scheling, and such comparison is the best way to understand Hegel. This is the strategy W. Marx took and it seems he make it. But this book is not that easy to follow if you have not preliminary knowledge of Kant, at least. This book is not a primer for beginners but for at least graduate student. Anyway I havent seen other book that explains better Hegel than this book.	2003-03-20
US	49955484	R1OELFXZF6H6RW	0750672226	817444040	Knowledge and Social Capital (Knowledge Reader)	Books	4	8	10	N	N	Hodgepodge of conflicting positions	I read articles on this book for those are assigned in a graduate class. But far from the title implies, The class has no relationship with knowledge economy which is the buzzword in the business community. But this book was used to make us to be familiar with the concept of social capital. Indeed this book tells less about knowledge but much more about social capital. Part I of this book contains introductory articles on the conception of the social capital and Part II lists real world application of the concept. 5 Articles of Part I voices cacophony, however. Reading through the articles only gives confusion to us. Nonetheless, its inevitable and intentional for there is no consensus about the very basic conception. So editor deliberately put those conflicting perspectives in one volume. In turn, this way of editing reveals the fact that this book is not suitable to beginners. If you are already known to the word, social capital, reading through competing perspective doesnt baffle your nerves. But if you havent heard the word at all, this book should not be recommended. Overall, the quality of articles is good enough. Indeed those are well-known ones. But if you want to see what the word, social capital at all, this is not your choice. If so, I recommend Nan Lins Social Capital: A Theory of Social Structure and Action. This book does not only overview the various conflicting positions comprehensively, but also systematically define the concept from the network approach. In fact, Nan Lin is a eminent figure in the social network theory.	2003-03-20
US	49955484	RZJAU85985AF9	0465078214	302437755	Silicon Valley Fever	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Vivid illustration of Silicon Valley	This book could be dubbed as the ethnography of Silicon Valley in the eye of anthropologist. This book seems outdated at first glance. Its two-decades-old, published in 1984. Since that time, so much has happened in the computer industry, the bread and butter of the Silicon Valley. Silicon Valley saw in the 1980s the era of microcomputer (PC) and in the 1990s the advent of the age of Internet. This book couldnt deal with those kind of events naturally. But the underlying characteristics of the area hasnt changed. Venture capitals and job-hoppings, hyper-competitive and individualistic lifestyle are there as usual. And those are vividly illustrated in this book with the texture of real business rendered with data garnered from interviews and anecdotes of not only eminent figures in the area but also ranks and files of the businesses. This book is inundated with lively details. Though there are flood of materials on Silicon Valley these days, this book doesnt lose its relevancy for the weight of time. I strongly recommend this book if you want to figure out the way of doing in Silicon Valley.	2003-03-20
US	49955484	R2RIYL73FCCHB3	0743230299	438534770	Kaplan GRE Exam 2003 with CD-ROM (Kaplan GRE Premier Program (W/CD))	Books	3	4	6	N	N	Good but not sufficient	Its, with no doubt, no easy-going and stressful to take any kind of exam. GRE is no exception and even worse one. It seems to be determined to shake our nerves with unworldly questions. They assume that we should be the walking dictionary. Those words they test upon us, unfortunately, is absurd one: I think that kind of word should be used once in a millennium! But even worse fact is this: we should go through and endure foolish test. To do so, we need specific mind-sets, and this is a guide to lead us familiar to that unworldly test. As you know GRE was comprised 3 sections: analytic writing, verbal, and math. Each section should be dealt with specific approach. For example, as this book emphasizes, reading part in verbal section should be approached with active reading not passive reading. In other word, you should pay attention these while you read through: Whats the topic and scope of this material; how the provided material is constructed? Is it argument or simple explanation? Whats authors intention? Why this example cited in this material? This is the active reading This is the one of the mind-set this book show to us. I think its apposite approach to follow. And other approaches this book introduces are effective to tackle the ugly but mandatory exam. <BR>But this edition has some weaknesses. First, Now writing should be taken. Its no more option. But this section is not fully explained in this book. Yep there are some basics of writing section. But not enough at all. To prepare writing section, youd better check ARCOs writing guidebook, titled Gre Cat: Answers to the Real Essay Questions.  Second, to take GRE test, youd better to practice as much as possible. But this book contains no more than 1 tests.<BR>All in all, this book must be helpful but not sufficient. But this is not the problem only this book has. Other materials also has pros and cons. The pro of this book is this: teaching you how to be inured to the absurd exam.	2003-03-19
US	49955484	R25MA3AEJEPEX9	0886852129	271314326	GRE: Practicing to Take the General Test 10th Edition (Practicing to Take the Gre General Test)	Books	4	14	18	N	N	This book has 8 real tests	This book is written by ETS which provide the GRE test service. The merit of this book is these: first, this book offers the official guidelines of the test. And that line is informative and helpful to test-takers. For example, you can figure out what scope the math section would deal with. And that this book not only show you the scope of section, but explains how to solve the questions in succinct way. Second, as the title says, this book has 8 real tests ETS made. Though ETS offers PowerPrep software for free to practice and get familiar to the test, current 3.0 version has not much tests. With this book, you could get more material to practice. And better, they explain why the question should have this kind of answers in detail. With that explanation, you could catch the knack how to approach the questions. <BR>But this book has the weaknesses like these: first, those real test this book offers are outdated. They provides tests held in the late 80s and the early 90s. But current CBT test are somewhat different from those tests. Current tests are much easier. Second, there is no guide to what kind of words is tested in the exam at all. Guidelines are no more than official on that matter. And those guidelines could be downloaded from ETS site for free. Then the only point to buy this book is the 8 real tests. Its up to you whether to buy this book. But in my opinion, if you take the test score seriously, youd better practice those real tests.	2003-03-19
US	49955484	R3DCUQP8E7EWCC	0471240931	3894857	Fourth Generation R&D: Managing Knowledge, Technology, and Innovation	Books	4	10	11	N	N	Strategic management of innovation	You might be curious about what the title of this book refers to. Its rather simpler than you might guess. In a common vocabulary in business, it refers to the radical innovation. Then, you might infer that the 3rd generation R&D should be the incremental innovation. Yep. Youre right. But those conventional terms dont fit completely into what authors argues. There is sufficient reason to coin such neologisms. The argument of this book goes like this. Traditional market research tends to deal with explicit knowledge. Focus group, survey, structured interview, all tackle what is pre-definable or expressible in word. But could such approaches spot the next generation product?  authors question. No. customers cant put into words their gut feeling needs. They could spot  it only when it appears on the market. The real breakthrough in product development, more often than not, comes in unexpected way. Thus, authors pose the question, How we should manage the uncertainty? Put in other way, how we should manage the innovation? R&D or product development must include incremental innovation. But in this turbulent environment, its not enough. To be the leader in the market, not follower, one should ride ahead the tide.  Then the question of R&D should be the radical innovation. Break with the identifiable trend. Then what product should be devised? All R&D begins with the product concept. But now the concept should be based on what customers gut feeling or their tacit needs. Dont make what customer wants today. Make what they want tomorrow. At this point, you might retort: Yep. Youre right. But its easier to be told than to be done. How I could do so? Here comes the knowledge management. Customers tacit needs tend to be buried in noise of day-to-day information flow. There are numerous reasons for such filtering out. But all in all, to be sensitive to that kind of info, the authors maintain, is to manage the organization innovative. Knowing is not doing. Doing needs the capability to do. Then innovation requires the capability building. But its not that simple to build up. It must face resistance inside the firm itself. Radical innovation tends to be the capability-destroying one. so developing innovative product usually comes with organizational innovation. <BR>Above is the problem authors pose to us. I think the better title of the book is Strategic management of innovation. This book is not about the specificity of R&D, but about how to manage the firm innovative. Overall tenet of the book is so close to Nonaka & Takeuchis The Knowledge-Creating Company. But this book is written not for academic researcher but for managers in the field. Points are made in graphic way with various case studies by authors. Nonetheless, it lacks the depth of Nonaka & Takeuchis book. I recommend to read this book with Nonaka & Takeuchis.	2002-09-27
US	49955484	R1R3OEJRZBHSJ4	0691037361	83345246	Embedded Autonomy	Books	4	5	11	N	N	The mechanism of developmental state	This book is regarded as de facto classic in the tradition of developmental state. The strategy of developmental state is the denial of extant hierarchy of comparative advantage. To achieve high growth rate, there should be high return sectors. But such sectors, in general, have no relation with developing countries. Then, should developing countries rest with agriculture or labor-intensive industries? Not necessarily. Such sectors tend to be low value-added, in other words, with low growth prospect. If you dont have it, then make it! Its the strategy of developmental state. But its no more than what to do. There was not satisfactory conceptualization on how East Asian developmental state put that strategy into practice. Amsdens Asias Next Giant (reciprocity) and Evans this book marked some conceptual leapfrogging.<BR>In the tradition of developmental state, state intervention is pinpointed as a necessary factor to rapid industrialization in East Asian countries. This book elaborates what states did to promote the industrial transformation (or, in Porters word, achieve competitive advantage). Evans argues that embedded autonomy (networking between bureaucrats and business) was the key to the developmental states effectiveness. What define the developmental state are the state autonomy (or strong state in the jargon of political science) and the state capacity. The state autonomy refers to the insulation of the bureaucracy from particularistic interests of, for example, the labor, the landlord, civil society, or the business. But  a state that was only autonomous would lack both sources of intelligence and the ability to implement its strategy. But the state that is only embedded is ready for capture. Only when embeddedness and autonomy are joined together can a state be called developmental. Evans takes real world example, to support his conception, from history of IT sector in South Korea. IT sectors of India and Brazil are taken together. But latters are  mobilized to contrast Koreas against them.	2002-09-25
US	49955484	R29ROHM8LWIYQX	0312177437	298343166	Japanese Interfirm Networks and Their Main Banks	Books	5	2	3	N	N	The real story of Japanese main banks	Transaction cost economics introduced the concept of hierarchy (or company) to explain the raison detre of the firm. The existence of the firm beside the market stands as a puzzle to neoclassical economics. If all the resources are distributed through the market mechanism, why there should be the company? Activities in and out of the firm are intrinsically economic one which is not that different from the one performed on the market. But those are not performed on the based on price mechanism. Then whats the rationality of the existence of the company? Setting up the company could be considered as rational economic action? Judging from experience, its definitely so. Transaction cost is introduced to solve this discrepancy between theory and practice. Market activities are inherently bridled with incomplete information. Rational market actor should rely on limited information to transact on the market (bounded rationality). The bounded rationality invites transaction cost beside nominal price on every transaction. The company is the device to reduce that cost. Its explanation seems successful. And thereafter transaction cost economics has become the dominant theory in economics of organization. But it pulls another puzzle towards us: it sounds great. Then how to explain the interaction between firms? They cite the opportunistic behavior between contractors. But examples of Japanese firms counter such modeling. Company lives with other firms. They compete and cooperate with each other. It goes without saying that their basic motive is selfish: making money, in other word, market-rational. But like all other human affair, their relation presupposes the rule and the other. The rule could be formal statute or implicit custom. The other could be competitors, or suppliers, cooperators, customers. Transaction cost economics retains the limited rationality model of economic man. So a limited picture is it that they cant draw up whole story of reality. Here comes the concept of institution and network. <BR>This book is a case study of Japanese interfirm network, widely known as keiretsu. Japanese interfirm network has been recognized as very unique one. Competition and cooperation between Japanese companies are not entirely  market-based. Trust has been attributed to it to describe their relationship. But author argues that they make some points, But such a story lacks clarity, and that, does not fit well into the reality of Japanese business. Drawing up a realistic picture is the aim of this book. Such a drawing needs the in-depth field research from scratch. There has been plethora of literature on Japanese keiretsu, but, author argues, not much useful one based on real story. For example, according to the dominant theory in the West, Japanese main banks take the role of corporate governance instead of market. They play the role of signaling, monitoring and rescuing in the behalf of themselves and other stakeholders. But author argues that that kind of picture is no more than tatemae (socially correct story). The honne (real story) is quite different. The relationship between main bank and its client firm is imbued with relational transaction and power imbalance. Relational transaction is peculiar to Japanese business. To do business, company should take part in some group. This is what is called as trust. But its far from pastoral scenery. Basically, the relationship functions as power amplifier to the firm: to mobilize as much resources as possible against other. Resources are like these: financing, information, political clout on regulatory bodies, customers, and the like. So we can conclude that inter-group relationship is inherently political. But interfirm relationship within group is far from genial. Its characterized by the power imbalance based on resource imbalance between them. The relationship between main bank and client firm is based on information imbalance. Here main bank take the upper side. Contrary to tatemae, such as monitoring, rescuing, their relations are deeply based on self-interest.	2002-09-19
US	49955484	RMLKKIHFLE4J7	0521645204	372960978	Sources of Industrial Leadership: Studies of Seven Industries	Books	4	1	3	N	N	Dynamic of competitive advantage	This book contains chronicles of seven industries of G3 (US, Japan, Europe) like semiconductor, computer, software, machine tool, chemistry, pharmaceuticals, and medical diagnostics. The aim of those chronicle documenting is to examine the effectiveness of existing models of industrial leadership or, in Porters term, competitive advantage. There have been several theories like technology life cycle theory, punctuated equilibrium, dynamic comparative advantage, and the like. But authors argue that close examination of seven industries in this book dose not support those theories. Some industry fits into some theory, but not into others. According to authors analysis, each industry shows very specific dynamic of competitive advantage. In some industry, for example, competitive advantage lies in firm level, in other, in industry level. They suspect that all-encompassing theory could not be developed. They seems to conclude that all we can do is to identify a set of factors affecting the dynamics of industrial leadership, such as resource endowment, its institutional embodiment, features of local market demand, and local technological condition. The industrial leadership is the function of the system of those factors, not individual factor. In my opinion, what they have in mind is not that different from Porters conception of cluster. Overall points are reasonable. But its far from conclusive enough to suggest some clear-cut picture to reader. And that, case studies of industries are far too cursory. In fact, in-depth study of various industries in a volume is definitely prohibitive task. And that, the aim of this book is at another. But I cant help thinking that this book is no more than preliminary trial.	2002-09-15
US	49955484	R5G3RAIYZOF6K	0765603101	19794425	Japan, the System That Soured	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Political economy of two Japans	Over more than a decade, Japan has baffled not only its citizens but also foreigners with its inability to sort the mess out. They call it the Heisei depression. Whats the problem of Japan? Its been a daunting question. There have been numerous explanations. Those could be grouped into three camps in my view:<BR>1. the problem is the financial macroeconomics not the fundamental disease of Japanese economy. Once the bad loans are cleared up, Japanese economy would be on the right track as before. (Posen at IIE: Cargill and his colleagues)<BR>2. Japan is on the bad point at its long-term cycle. Each economy has its own long-term cycle of investment, determined by the level of sunk capital. In this view, ascendance of Japan and Germany over the States in 70s and 80s could be attributed to this dynamic of cycle. In other words, the US was in a bad point at the time. Now Japan is on its own bad point. (Robert Brenner)<BR>3. Depression or liquidity trap must be serious problems. But those are not the cause but the symptom of deep-seated malady. So-called Japanese miracle was propelled socioeconomic regime of 55 system, in Pempels words. It was the key to Japans epic story. But now its the curse to Japanese economy. The vested interests of the regimes alliance, or iron triangle, has hamstrung the overall competitiveness of economy. (Pempel, Tilton, Porter, Bai Gao, Brookings Institute, OECD, and The Economist)<BR>Richard Katz is on the side of the third camp. His argument is like this: Infamous industrial policy fostered various industries with policy pair of promotion/protection. But not all sectors succeeded in world market. Those sectors should be liquidated to free resources up to competitive sectors in the view of rational policy makers. But such massive exit or restructuring is not of political rationale. The first oil shock exacerbated things around exit options. Such an attempt would be political suicide. So Japanese government prop them up. But uncompetitive sectors have taxed out competitive sectors and consumers with artificially high prices far above international market prices. It has resulted in weakening competitiveness and aggregate demand in economy-wide. To make up for weak domestic demand, export-drive set in motion. Up to mid-1980s, competitive Japan like electronics, automobile industry could feed up uncompetitive Japan like petrochemicals, steel, service sector at the expense of overseas competitors market share. But overdependence on overseas market invited super-strong yen in 1985. So export-drive hurts its very condition. There was 2 consequences: Competitive sectors responded with FDI, so-called the problem of hollowing out;s Now overseas market couldnt make up for the feeble domestic demand. So there should be alternative demand in domestic side. Government boosted the demand with pouring down money. Buddle swelled. At last bubble busted. The problem of Japan is not financial mess but the political economy of two Japans. It has weakened the competitiveness and aggregate domestic demand. Deregulation is the answer. But its near impossible for political reasons. So the problem lies not in economic side but in political side. <BR>Katz follows the mainstream line of Japanese studies. So His account of Japanese political economy is not that unheard-of. but he articulates the points with simple and clear economic modeling. The picture he draws up is amazingly lucid and plain. His work could be counted as the constellation of a decades debates.	2002-09-15
US	49955484	R37COYYDWVL1A	0195092694	252242420	The Knowledge-Creating Company: How Japanese Companies Create the Dynamics of Innovation	Books	5	5	9	N	N	From information-processing machine to knowledge-creating co	This book is the classic in the organizational learning approach. But its more than that. This book is not about lean production or Japanese kaizen system, but about how to enhance a firms adaptability to turbulent environment through knowledge creation. with suggesting new concept of knowledge-creation as the tangible base of organizational capabilities or innovation, this book serves as the bridge between organizational learning school and resource-capabilities view. <BR>As the being to survive in environment, the firm processes signals or information from environment. Knowledge is the framework to process info to interpret the state of environment. Up to 1980s, the company was viewed as information-processing machine. Indeed, firm is the flow of information. That kind of view has been justified against the business reality. Actually, its the very picture of bureaucratic organization which culminated in GMs M-form model. Here, CEO like Jack Welch is the hero. Such an organization is effective when the environment is stable and predictable. But since 1970s, things have changed. Uncertainties have been amplified with the hypercompetition on global scale. Now the framework to interpret the signal from environment, itself should incessantly and systemically be adapted to turbulent reality. Knowledge and innovation have come the words of the day. Not surprisingly, there has been growing dissatisfaction with traditional organizational structure. Kaos CEO, Maruta put it in this way: The intelligence of a firm does not come from the president nor top management. That must come from the gathering of all knowledge of all members. This book is about to how to build organization as the effective innovation site. To do so, all the available knowledge in and out of company should be able to be mobilized and freely flow throughout the firm. For instance, front line employees are constantly in direct touch with the outside world. They can obtain access to the up-to-date info on the market, technology, or competitors. But their knowledge is, in most cases, not able to be expressed in explicit way. Generally, its the tacit knowledge. But to survive more and more intensified competition, the firm should be apt to mobilizing their tacit knowledge. To achieve such a goal, task force or bottom-up organizational model emerged. In those model, the creative knowledge worker, in Peter Druckers term, is the hero. But in those models, knowledge tends to be confined to narrow front line, and comes and goes with creative employees. And worse, the firm cant react as an efficient unit to threats from environment. As a result, innovation is the haphazard event. So there should be some integrating mechanism like hierarchy. To be efficient unit, knowledge should flow all over the company. Here, authors rediscover the significance of middle managers. They play the role of midwife and amplifier of knowledge from front line employees and between various divisions in the firm. They coordinate the flow of knowledge and maintain the firm as a coherent knowledge-creating unit. In short, the firm should be organized as the melting pot of members knowledge. Authors take examples from Japanese firms to illustrate whats like such a site.	2002-08-28
US	49955484	R1NR7XKQT8GSQ7	0789007258	232909825	Strategic Networks: The Art of Japanese Interfirm Cooperation	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Offering conceptual tools to analyze the interfirm networks	As Michael Porter shows with the terms like value chain, cluster, the firm can't live on its own. It's in the environment consisting of other firms which compete and cooperate to each other to survive and manage uncertainties coming from competition. In the era of globalization, uncertainties from competition have been intensified to the unprecedented level. So the interfirm cooperation to manage uncertainties has become ever more critic. Keiretzu system or cluster like Silicon Valley is typical example of interfirm cooperation. Such a form of cooperation is called as the interfirm network. But unlike Silicon Valley, Japanese network system, keiretzu, is much more formally organized enough to be presented as a model. The aim of this book is not to dissect the keiretzu (such books are already abundant), but to offer conceptual tools to see through interfirm cooperation. The author mobilize various aspects and cases from Japanese business. But those are no more than real life examples. The focus lies in developing abstract enough tools to be applied to everywhere. In so doing, the author put extant concepts to use, mainly from organizational learning theory, systems theory. Author's picture is vivid, convincing, and effective.	2002-08-21
US	49955484	RLTXACNY5UF85	0691005222	446321241	The Architecture of Markets: An Economic Sociology of Twenty-First-Century Capitalist Societies.	Books	5	20	23	N	N	The market as a social field	Over past decades, what has bestowed the identity on economic sociology is the shared hostility to neoclassical economics. But besides it, unfortunately, they have agreed on nothing. And worse, economists simply pass over their arguments. They are no more than fusses about nothing. The reason is simple: there are no potent enough alternatives in sociological camp. Fligstein  argues that this is because sociological approaches lack a organizing frame to explain economic processes as generic social processes. To make it effective, there should be a simple and powerful enough theoretical frame. Offering such an approach is what Fligstein intends with this book. <BR>Economic action takes place in the market. Fligstein holds that there is no reason to treat the market differently. Social action takes place in organized social space, or field in Bourdieus term. Fields is the space where one try to dominate others. But the domination in that space is systemized and routinized. It defines local relations between actors. Once in place, the interactions in fields become games where groups in filed who have more power use the acceptable rules to reproduce their power: the domination system is institutionalized. This process makes action in fields inherently political. Studying field is about opening of new social space, how it becomes and remains stable (become a field), and the forces that transform fields. <BR>Fligstein replaces profit-maximizing actor with one who takes care of the survival of their firm. Managers and owners are trying enhance the survival of the firm by reducing the uncertainties they face in the market. Managing uncertain environment is a sizable task. Its about the search for stable and predictable interactions with competitors, suppliers, and workers. Relationship between seller and buyer is fleeting. Stability in the market lies in the relationship between sellers, then. Relationships between them delineate the market as a field. The social relations are oriented toward maintaining the advantage of largest seller firms in the face of their challengers. They define how the market works and how competition is structured. Although the firms compete, they have produced an equilibrium whereby they survive by following the accepted tactics of competition. As forms of social relation, market systems involve both shared understanding and concrete social relations. The shared understandings structure the interactions between competitors but also allow actors to make sense of their competitors actions. There are four types of rules relevant to producing social structure in markets: property rights, governance structures, rules of exchange, and conception of control. These categories are the essential analytic tools in Fligsteins approach. They enable researcher to dissect empirically. But definition and details are intricate to propose here. Ill skip it.<BR>Part I of this book sketch out the theoretical outline of Fligsteins approach. Part II support it with case studies of labor market, corporate governance, and globalization. On the whole, this book is readable and persuasive. Points are clear, lines are easy to follow. In my opinion, its a breakthrough in economic sociology.	2002-08-17
US	49955484	R3VVMPBQY7K7Q8	0465059899	310644518	Can Japan Compete?	Books	5	6	9	N	N	Japan¡¯s success and failure in light of business strategy	... <br />Michael Porter become the celebrity in the field of business strategy with his two books, ¡®Competitive Advantage¡¯, ¡®Competitive Strategy¡¯. Takeuchi and Sakakibara secured their name in organizational learning school with their book, ¡®The Knowledge-Creating Company.¡¯ With this book, ¡®the word, ¡®knowledge creation¡¯ has been widely circulated within business schools. <BR>This book poses the question, ¡®Why does Japan stumble?¡¯ it¡¯s the single most popular subject in Japanese studies. Numerous books come to mind on that issue. The approach this book takes is, nonetheless, unique. While others have tackled it in the view of macroeconomics or political economy, authors of this book take the view of microeconomics, or more precisely business strategy. They argue that more-than-decade-long deflation and liquidity trap are not the fundamental problem, but just symptoms. The underlying problem must be hunted for elsewhere: the eroded competitive advantage of Japanese companies. There has been warning signs since 1980s well before bubble bursting:<BR>1. Since 1980s, no new internationally competitive industry has emerged.<BR>2. The profitability, or capital productivity has long been low. Export share has been achieved and maintained partly by sacrificing returns to capital. <BR>3. Japan¡¯s share of world exports peaked in 1986 (10%). But it has fallen since then to below 8%. <BR>Bubble and subsequent financial meltdown certainly is serious trouble. But above reveals much deeper crisis: the loss of competitiveness. <BR>Michael Porter maintains that firms initially gain competitive advantage by altering the basis of competition. They won not just by recognizing new market, or technologies but by moving aggressively to exploit the,. A firm¡¯s local rivalry in home nation plays a critical role in shaping manager¡¯s perceptions about the opportunities that can be exploited. Firms that survive vigorous local competition are often more efficient and innovative. In the 1970s and 80s, Japan set the world standard for operational effectiveness, that is, for improving quality and lowering cost: TQM, JIT system, lean production, cycle time reduction. Japanese companies pushed the productivity frontier well beyond the capabilities of many Western companies. Japanese companies¡¯ competitive advantage was obtained through cut-throat local competition. But starting in the mid- and late 1980s, the gap between Japanese and Western companies began to narrow through so-called restructuring or reengineering. Now Japan¡¯s source of competitiveness has been eroded away. As a result, international competition has ever more vigorously intensified not in the behalf of Japan. Worse, what drove Japan to be competitive now serve as drag on it. Fierce local rivalry degrade into competitive convergence. It means that all the competitors in an industry compete on the same dimension. As rivals imitate one another¡¯s improvements in quality, cycle time, or supplier partnerships, competition becomes a series of unwinnable races down identical paths. This occurs because Japanese firms believe that by mimicking competitors¡¯ technologies and products, they can avoid being in a weak positioning in the market. Because, as a result of mutual benchmarking, Japanese companies cannot but think of competition only in terms of operational effectiveness for their product lineup converges, the have made it almost impossible to be enduringly successful. The more benchmarking, the more they look alike. To avoid such a stalemate, they try to diversify product lineup. But it inflames only to another round of convergence. This kind of local rivalry has finally led to excess costs to over-differentiation for products as well as their components. Such costs have become too high, thus leading to a considerable waste of resources. When they set the best practices, such a cost could be dissipated at the expense of Western competitor¡¯s market share. But now such an advantage rarely exists, if any. Competitive convergence leads to the lack of focus. The lack of focus results in no obvious competitive advantage for they are over-diversified. Authors recommend to compete on strategy: Operational effectiveness is just one of two ways a company pursues superior performance. The other is through strategy, or competing on the basis of a unique positioning involving a distinctive product of service offering. The essence of strategy is to perform differently from rivals. It¡¯s choosing not to do something. They succumb to the temptation to chase easy growth by adding popular features and taking on product lines or services that do not fit their strategy. Or they target new customers to whom the company offers noting unique. But attempting to compete in several ways at once creates confusion and undermines organizational motivation and focus. Profits fall, so more revenue is seen as the answer. In sum, authors argues that the problem of Japan is more in mind-set than in unchangeable circumstances in Japan.	2002-08-16
US	49955484	R1L63NP96FPMDG	0198297459	961079946	The New Competitive Advantage: The Renewal of American Industry	Books	5	6	6	N	N	The engine of growth: cluster dynamics	In the 1970s and 1980s, the competitiveness of American economy seemed to be eroded away in the face of Japanese challenge. But all of a sudden, applauded Japan lost its way in the 1990s and by middle of the decade, American industries resurged. This book is one of attempts to explain such dramatic rise and fall, and find the underlying mechanism of industrial success stories. The author demands us to delve into the regional growth dynamics to solve those puzzles. Best attributes the rise and fall of nation economies to the underlying dynamics of local clusters. The unit of analysis in conventional economics is either the economy or the individual (including firm). But such approaches haven't provided acceptable explanations. Michael Porter argues the basic unit of analysis should be the industry, to understand competitiveness and productivity. Actually Michael Porter's conception of competitive advantage, cluster has been widely adopted in 1990s. Competitive advantage of the firm is created and sustained through local competition in its industry, Porter maintains. But local industry is not isolated from other local industries. It's connected to clusters of industries through vertical and horizontal relationships. Cluster is firm's home base environment. For example, Porter argues that, in \\"Can Japan COmpete?\\" , Japanese industry, like auto or electronics, is competitive where its backing cluster is strong, while uncompetitive, like petrochemicals or aerospace, where backing cluster is weak. Cluster is the ecology of the firm. And firm's competitive advantage is shaped in its ecology. Advantages in its ecology are necessary for achieving and sustaining competitive success. For Porter, rivalry between leading firms in the local is the driver and the weapons to compete comes from the local environment. The firm read and identify the market opportunities and shape its strategy to exploit the opportunities and mobilize the resources from the local cluster. So the firm is the real actor in the economic drama, Porter points out. But ironically, the internal organization of the firm does not feature in Porter's cluster.To construct the acceptable framework to explain the cluster dynamics, Best argues the firm should be given the due role in economic drama. Here comes the Schumpeterian entrepreneur. There are so many clusters. But there are few successful cluster like Silicon Valley. Few develop the regional growth dynamics. In competition between the two regions, the higher productive region will create regional competitive advantage. The difference lies in a few driver or creator of cluster dynamics: the entrepreneurial firm. To the entrepreneurial firm, competition is not price-based but product-based. To do so, the entrepreneurial firm pursues market niches by developing unique production capabilities, often of a technological form, to differentiate its product from competitors. In turn, the process of such developing precipitates new market opportunities to guide the new product development. Capturing those opportunities leads to another round of developing production capabilities. We could identify such process in Japanese practice of kaizen. In the Japanese production system, production process and developing process are integrated. Best calls it as technology management. In kaizen system, the innovation of technology is systemized in production process so developing technology is not one-off event but continuous process. The production is the process not only of producing product but also of finding new knowledge. In short, the entrepreneurial firm refers to a few firm in cluster with the dynamics of such virtuous circle. Best call it technology/market dynamic. The internal dynamics of the entrepreneurial firm induces the regional cluster dynamics. It's a virtuous circle too. No firm, no matter how big, can pursue all technological possibilities it created. Apple could not make all the peripherals for its Apple computer, likeapplications, printers, monitors and so on, on its own. Apple had not enough resources to make all of them. Those were possibilities to other firms opened up by Apple. And Apple PC was itself the given-up possibility by Xerox. Those are not pursued internally become market opportunities for other firms, resulting in so-called Silicon Valley effect. New small entrants can exploit new technology capability, advance the emerging technology and develop the new market. The entrepreneurial firm start-up system is particularly strong in the Silicon Valley and Route 128. Best attributes the resurgence of American economy to such cluster dynamics.	2002-08-11
US	49955484	R2EIBQR1WNQAAY	0803989199	377820977	Organizations Evolving	Books	4	7	12	N	N	Towards the umbrella framework	Aldrich is a leading figure in organizational sociology. The organization is, with no doubt, a domain of sociology. But organization is not the object only sociology, especially because the company is the dominant form of organization under capitalism. The firm has been the object of various disciplines. Since the firm is an organization, if one studies the company, he participates in organizational studies. Organizational sociology has also zeroed in on the firm, rather than other form of organization. So now organizational sociology is not much discernible from economic sociology in the empirical research. Both have focused on the firm and the market as research domain. Most universities in the States offer both specialties as one course rather than separate course. Moreover, such a blending of field is intensified as more and more researchers from various disciplines take the firm and market as their research agenda.  weve seen the ascendance of organizational economics over past decades, breaking decades of ignorance of firm in economics. One-of-a-kind move could be spotted even in political science. Varieties of Capitalism (2001), edited by Peter Hall and David Soskice, for instance, is a example of such a trend. In this book they examine the influence of national regulatory system on the business system and competitive advantage. Now the organizational study is increasingly interdisciplinary affair in social sciences. The more come into play, the more divergent the field become. Aldrich identifies seven perspectives in organizational studies: ecological approach, institutionalism, interpretive approach, organizational learning approach, resource dependence approach, transaction cost economics, and evolutionary approach. The diversity of approaches is not only tolerable but also necessary, given the interdisciplinary nature of organizational studies. But seven perspectives in only one field is too much. So Aldrich attempts to launch the overarching framework based on evolutionary approach, while preserving the value of other approach. The advantage of evolutionary approach lies in its simplicity. It consists of only 4 principles: variation, se4lection, retention, and struggle. Each relates to the other with if-then clauses. But they are abstract in nature. The specific accounts of events should be provided by other niche approaches. Evolution is the name of process, not of substance or what takes place in the field. This is the overall architecture of the book. It seems Aldrich succeeds in the ambitious project to provide the umbrella framework linking competing perspectives under one roof. In doing so, he reviews tons of researches to validate the effectiveness of his proposal. It seems to work with empirical studies. But the devil lies in details. He dumps too many into the limited space in cursory manner. So reader has some difficulty in following through the lines. Overall framework of the book is reasonable, and that it must be the breakthrough in organizational studies. But reading through it is another matter. Its a painful travail.	2002-08-04
US	49955484	R4IWGV09X0ZAD	087584913X	526542549	In Good Company: How Social Capital Makes Organizations Work	Books	5	0	4	N	N	Work as Social Process	Why do new CEOs staff the company with their men?<BR>Why are women under-represented un the business world?<BR>Why could some succeed in launching and establishing new enterprises while other couldnt manage do so?<BR>Why are the MBA degree craved, while there is no link between MBA results and future salary?<BR>Social capital is supposed to be the answer to these questions. Social capital is widely exploited to emphasize the social nature of work: the work is the social process. Previously, corporate culture is used to point out such a nature. Organizations culture means the set of rites and rituals that give it its unique character. Culture is the way things are done around here. The HP way, for example, the open-plan, walkabout management style laid down in the 1950s, by Bill Hewlett and Dave Packard, a style that still imbues the company today. But culture is a elusive concept. Its too soft to be managed. One executive asserted that the only culture round here is in the yoghurts in the canteen. Nevertheless, though too soft to grasp, its very real one. So many M&As have been botched for clashes between corporate cultures. Its real but too elusive to manage and grasp. Social capital is introduced to ground it on tangible material base. Then what is social capital? Social capital refers attributes like trust, commitment, attachment and so forth which belongs to active connections among people, in other word, network and community. <BR>When the God decided to put a stop to human-beings first great collective enterprise, he confused their language so they could no longer understand one another, and could not carry out the joint project, Tower of Babel. Carry a heavy stone could be done without words. The real problem was the loss of understanding that cannot be mimed or diagrammed. Without common speech, the towers planners could not have inspired others to join the project, workers could not have learned to trust each others judgment, resolveunexpected problems together, or count on each others help in dangerous situations. In other words, what they lost was not just common language, but the social capital which was probably more critical than the failure of information exchange. <BR>Some schools in economics of organization characterized the firm as the flow of information. Its hard to deny. In this regard, however, corporate culture is no more than each companys idiosyncratic frame to each processing info: the firm is no more than a cybernetic system. But the firm is a social process built on community and network. Culture is what resides in community and network within personnel. <BR>Moreover, organizations knowledge and capabilities lies not in official hierarchy but in unofficial community of practice. Most job training occurs after workers join a firm. They learn by dong on the shop floor. There is always a manual that describes how to operate a particular machine or conduct a job. As times passes, however, workers are apt to devise better ways to do the job and surpass the manual. And this is the collective process. As they work together, knowledge slowly moves from person to person. Network and community are not only the repository of corporate knowledge and capacities, but also the incubator of collaboration, especially voluntary collaboration that does not rely on external incentives. They help create and sustain our personal identities, the intrinsic satisfactions of praise, respect, and gratitude from fellow members. Those have more meaning and power than little prizes or even monetary rewards. <BR>Now, I think, youve got what is social capital. Above, I followed the style of the book which does not burden the reader with abstract concepts, but illustrate the picture of social capital with real world examples, to enlighten readers to the practical meaning of social capital in their own workplace. With closing the last page. I bet you get the crux and import of social capital.	2002-08-03
US	49955484	RILD4F6WDZ4TG	0226163121	509982951	Michel Foucault: Beyond Structuralism and Hermeneutics	Books	5	9	18	N	N	Stuck in middle	This book has been numbered as the most authoritative interpretation of Foucault. The main question of the book is how to classify Foucaults thought. Foucault has been characterized as a typical structuralist. But as the subtitle of this book implies, he is not a structuralist, authors argue. He attempted to overcome the dichotomy of structuralism and hermeneutics. Early works like The Order of Things and The Archaeology of Knowledge might be seen as a breakthrough in structuralist line. But late works like Discipline and Punishment and The History of Sexuality have some flavor of hermeneutics. In this regard, Foucault could not be classified as structuralist or hermeneutist. Then Foucaults thought, one might guess, seemed to shift from structuralism to hermeneutics. To clear the confusion, we should visit Foucaults conception of discourse. The discourse is actually how the human-being understand and construct its world. Then the question of what is discourse? is translated into what is understanding the world? the most dominant approaches to that question are phenomenology, hermeneutics and structuralism. But they hasnt presented satisfactory solution. In Husserlian approach, the world is understood by meaning-giving transcendental subject. In structuralist approach, both meaning and subject give way to objective law (structure). Structure governs the subject. Hermeneutics is a bit subtler than them. Human-being is a meaning-giving subject, but meaning is located in the social practices like tradition or convetion, routine. (for more details, see my review on Eagletons Literary Theory: An Introduction) Foucault gyrates along those three positions, which makes Foucault hard to be pinpointed. The trajectory Foucault traced reveals how he attempted to set up his own solution. <BR>The questions raised by hermeneutics and structuralism converges into the question, What lies beyond discourse? structuralism answers its the structure. In the world of structuralism, the concept of meaning is altogether eliminated. Hermeneutics, according to Gadamer, answers its the profound understanding of Being embedded in traditional linguistic practices. They all focus on linguistic practices, the discourse. It seems that in the early works, The Archaeology of Knowledge and The Order of things, Foucault followed the structuralist doctrines: the discourse appears as self-regulating and autonomous. The methodology he hired, archaeology is indifferent to the meaning in the discourse, just as ethnologists methodically distantiate themselves both from ones own culture and from the culture under investigation. With the method of structuralist archaeology, Foucault could achieve such a distanciation. Discourse in mere object to be dissected. But the influences from social institution, which is the essential to Foucualts conception of discourse, couldnt be seen. According to Giddens, discourse has always some intended effect to bring about. So it plays some role in social life. As demonstrated in vivid manner on Madness and Civilization, discourse not only talks about object-being-there, but also makes it. Madness emerged as the effect of discourse. It was not naturally there. Here comes the conception of power. Early method of archaeology serves to isolate and analyze discourse. But it doesnt mean that Foucault turned to hermeneutics. Actually, he denied the meaning-giving subject with advocating the disappearance of the subject. Unlike Wittgenstein or Giddens, power is the attribute not of individual social actors but of dominating system. So discourse is not the business of individuals. In the History of Sexuality, he showed how the deep meaning like identity is related to social dominance, in other word practices of power. The subject speaking deep truth or meaning is actually the product of power. But it makes it the elusive question, where the power resides in or what the power is at all. The authors are right when saying Foucault is neither structuralist nor hermeneutist. But Foucaults position is inherently ambiguous: he seems stuck in middle, I think.	2002-07-24
US	49955484	R2UB8GKFELXR88	0471254541	902520472	Economics of Strategy, 2nd Edition	Books	5	8	13	N	N	Firm¡¯s strategic positioning	This is a textbook for MBA classes both on business strategy and on business economics which focuses on the economics of industry and firm. Textbook is supposed to introduce students to the vocabulary of each discipline, not to specific or uncommon theory. So its far from singular or creative. Nevertheless, to be a good textbook, at least in social sciences, it should meet two criteria:<BR>1. it should relate concepts to empirical cases. Social sciences are the empirical sciences. So their concepts are also empirical. But when I took economics courses, textbooks led me to think economics is no more than a math exercise. When deriving and calculating ISLM model, for example, you could not disagree with me. And worse, such a knowledge could be neither applicable nor realistc, and could not endure against students amnesia. In this regard, this book is worth recommending. Its full of cases from real business world and always attempts to explain concepts in the real world meaning.<BR>2. A good textbook should have a consistent framework which integrate various concepts introduced in the book into a coherent and meaningful whole. This book, from start to end, raises the question, What is the business strategy? the business strategy is about how to attain competitive advantage, put another way, how to strategically position ones firm in the competitive environment. Competition increase the supply of output in the market, and drive down price, therefore, profitability. The firm is the organization to earn profit. Them the strategy of firm is how to earn higher profit than competitors. When a firm earns a higher profit rate than the average rate of competitors , the firm has a competitive advantage in the market. A firms profitability within a market depends both on market-led economics and firms capabilities. Part I and II of this book is about what constitutes and affect firmss market and industry or firms environment. Part III is about how to achieve and sustain competitive advantage or about firms strategic positioning. In a nutshell, a firm has the ultimate objective to earn higher profit rate. To achieve that goal depends both on firms environment and on firms own capabilities. Strategy is firms interaction with its environment.	2002-07-24
US	49955484	R3UIYYQIFYJF3L	081661251X	980571593	Literary Theory: An Introduction Second Edition	Books	5	0	4	N	N	What could be called as literary text?	Literary theory is the answer to the questions like what is the literature? or what could be called as literary text? it seems, at a glimpse, a simple and obvious matter. You could enumerate literary texts like Hamlet, Faust , Huckleberry Finn and so on. But in the 17th century, Gibbons Rise and Fall of Roman Empire was considered as a literary text just as Blakes poem was so. And these days, someone read the Bible as literary text not as religious text declaring truth about the world. The boundary of literature has drifted over time. Terry Eagleton argues that the literature as such hasnt existed on earth at all. What could be called as literary text is neither self-evident (or objective) nor arbitrary (or subjective). Then the question of literary theory should be changed like this: What lies in-between? What is literary text is determined by canon. Norton Anthology which is widely used in undergraduate classes is the material example of canon. Canon, in this case, is comprised through political haggling in academics. This is the position of hermeneutic conception of tradition which has been also applied to the philosophy of science. Tradition is carried by the community of artists and critics, and determines which is literary text. Reception theory is the logical extension of that point. Bring reader back in is its motto. Now reader claims the citizenship in the community of literature. In sum, hermeneutics and reception theory perceive the in-between as a institution which lies among academics, publishers, critics, and reader. Its inherently volatile for it floats over the contingency of political wrangles over justified interpretation of text by various actors. In the approaches of hermeneutics and reception theory, which all have the German origin, regard the text as corpus of meaning. Reading text is the fusion or even collision between authors and readers horizon of meaning. Indeed, its the real life of reading. But as in the philosophy of science betrays, that kind of position tends to slip into relativism. Here comes in the structuralism. <BR>In the world of structuralism, all such words like authors intention, the value of the work, and historicity in text lose their right to exist. All the particular texts are dissected and reduced to the universal laws of structure. All the element of text make sense only in relation to other elements. Then, text refers to the totality of those relations. The text tells itself. The content of text is its structure, that is, the totality of relations between elements which are inherently arbitrary in itself. There is no need to concern about authors intention or its context in time and space which, by definition, we cant access at all. <BR>This is the point shared by all formalist theories like Russian Formalism, American New Criticism, and semiotics. Now all the texts are objectified and demystified, or de-subjectified. Structure, by definition, could be identified by anybody. Now reading and critique become the scientific activity meeting the principle of reliability. <BR>But in such a picture, we cant find ourselves. We live and touch, day by day, the world of hermeneutics. Structuralism brackets the everyday reality where personal, social, and historical meanings still matter. Sign always refers to something. Thus it has meaning. Structuralisms text is not the earthly text we read. Text, or language is always mobilized to bring some intended effect. In Giddens term, its the resource mobilized by intentional social actor. Therefore, text has the intention which has been called as meaning. The text is the effect. Now the language should be turn into the discourse. In this vein, Eagleton argues the literary text has always been political. Its political in the sense that text is discourse, and discourse is practiced in social context. Eagleton argues, with persuasive power, that not only the text is political, but also the literary theory is political: Reading text ends in reading the social world and history. <BR>Above is recapping of Eagletons main thread. With no doubt, its not all of the book and there are so many details not to be skipped away. And that, I omitted two chapters on deconstructionists like Derrida, Foucault, Lacan, Kristeva, Yale school and psychoanalysis, for I think those are not necessary to draw up the big picture of the book.	2002-07-15
US	49955484	R31BO670N9CNHU	0226059790	275250412	002: Feudal Society, Volume 2: Social Classes and Political Organization	Books	5	15	19	N	N	Feudalism as a social type	This book might be the most widely read among Blochs works who is the pioneer of Annal school. This book typifies the methodology of Annal school. History as a science took off in the 19th century. But Bloch argued that it was not history but just chronicles of events and political episodes. Bloch posed the fundamental questions: What is the history? and What does history serve for? To be a science, the object of history should be not the particular but the universal. Bloch did not think the universal law is possible in history. Then, the object of historical research should be the relation which may refer not to the law but to structure. This structure sets the boundary (or in Braudels word, the possible and the impossible) on the everyday life, and has the not-so-easily changeable long-term duration (or in Braudels term, longue duree). Whereas Braudels trilogy, Civilization and Capitalism is about the capitalism as longue duree (for more detail, see my reviews on those volumes), Blochs Feudal Society is about the feudalism as longue duree. <BR>Marxists and others maintained the feudalism originated from the sudden and violent collision between Roman society and German society. Its the child born from the violent and coercive marriage. But Bloch argues that resulting form of feudalism had its origin not directly in German invasion but in subsequent invasions of the Moslem, the Norman, and the Hungarian. These added up to the uncontrollable chaos all over Western Europe, and ended in the collapse of effective ruling of the state. Feudal system as we know emerged in this stalemate which Frank empire and other states of the time faced. State apparatus could not  be maintained for state could not pay bureaucrats salary. Frank empire pioneered the alternative system which was later known as feudalism. What characterizes feudalism is the unique social type based on the principle of subordination and custody. The principle is similar to the patron/client relationship of Roman age. But feudal one is based on the principle of contract which is premised on reciprocity. Put another way, feudalism is the network of reciprocal relationship of rights and responsibility from king to serf. Ruling class could not wield power over serf in unilateral way. In this vein, feudal system is both social (between classes) and political (among ruling class) relationships. Bloch maintained this relationship should be called as feudalism. Its a social type which is not limited to the economic terrain as Marxists argued.	2002-07-14
US	49955484	R10OJHTA6BVTI2	0745317448	945297265	Art in the Age of Mass Media	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Art in Society	Art is a social institution. So it can't be insulated from social influences. Artists are sellers in market. They earn their bread by selling their products, artworks. <BR>Art is a language shared by social actors. Artworks can't be read without shared code to interpret the meaning of the text. They call it as convention. Convention is established through the power relationship in the market among producer (artists), intermediary (critics) and consumer (audience). <BR>In this regard, art is just another medium like mass media. The author questions when the mass media dominates the culture, what is the status of pure art? In this vein, following questions, which have haunted the field of artistic production since the 19th century, gains renewed significance. Could art secure its autonomy as modernists dreamt of? What is the social role of art? <BR>To answer those questions, the author probes into the language and market of visual art from pop art to postmodernism. Various avant-garde movements since pop art has borrowed and exploited material, subject and strategy of mass media. In turn, mass culture has utilized the art as high culture. But the position of pure art is still restricted to institutionalized sanctuary like museum, university. It's no more than high culture protected from below. It's utilized to distinguish from others by high society. It's not clear whether artwork is different from luxury goods in its utility. Adorno's word still reverberates in the circle of artists: \\"Today, it goes without saying that nothing concerning art goes without saying, not much without thinking. Everything about art has become problematic: its inner life, its relation to society, even its right to exist\\".	2002-07-14
US	49955484	R2RXJKY1TB1PTG	1855065606	983224405	Kant's Critique Of Pure Reason (Key Texts : Classic Studies in the History of Ideas)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	More than for beginners	This book is a commentary on Kants Critique of Pure Reason, supposed to be read by beginners. But it could be read on its own for it doesnt rely on Kants reasoning to be a coherent text. This book presents the reader not only the nub of Kants book, but the validity of Kants reasoning with authors attesting. Kants thought is presented not to be memorized but to be testified. As Kant did in his three Critiques including Critique of Pure Reason, Kants own argument should be questioned or, in Kants word, criticized, How is it possible? For example, as much as possible, the author refrains from using Kants terminology on its own. Terminology itself should be introduced and used with sufficient grounding. When there has been enough grounding, the author begin to use Kants terminology. Grounding terminology means founding Kants argument. Terminology is no more than culmination of the argument. Terminology is no more than the summary of argument. <BR>To criticize Kants argument, the author summarizes Kants argument into a few simple points, and tackles them with delicate analyses in the word and examples we are more familiar than Kants. with following through the process, we could catch the intrinsic meaning of Kants arguments which we think we already know enough, but in fact doesnt understand. Moreover, if Kants argument doesnt seem plausible, the author not only attacks the weakness of it, but reconstructs it to be acceptable. In so doing, though Kant has been dissected and denounced by innumerable commentators, the author shows that Kant is still the admirable and worth reading philosopher.	2002-07-14
US	49955484	RXUZOHFGY4H37	0810934396	985027347	History of Modern Art : Painting, Sculpture, Architecture & Photography	Books	5	4	8	N	N	How to read modern art	Since first published in 1968, this book has widely used as textbook. As a text, artwork could be explained in various ways. Gombrichs Story of Art, for example, focuses on the interaction between the visual art and its time. Since the book deals with the entire time span of Western visual art, that kind of approach would be better suited to inform readers what and how was the artwork in those times. So distant from our time is it that its hard to understand the meaning of the work without referring historical context of the work. All the text presume its reader (or audience). And reader or audience reads the text according to the established convention of the time. The conventions to read the work were so different from ours. But when it comes to the contemporary art, things are more complicated. Robert Hughes The Shock of the New follows the line of the contextual explanation. Hughes paints not detailed picture of modernism but overall characterization from birds eye view. Thus he didnt touch all the works canonized. Its more adequate to make a consistent impression of modernism. However, this book was intended to inform the reader the encyclopedic knowledge on Western visual art from the 19th century to postmodernism. Moreover, the coverage of the book is not restricted to the painting but includes sculpture, architecture, and photography. With that kind of coverage and time span dealt with, one cant benefit from times filtering out like Gombrichs. to be a coherent text as a history, the author cannot but take the view that artwork tells itself. The accounts of this book is focused on teaching the reader how to listen to the voice of artwork. With in-depth analysis of distinguished works one by one, you could learn how to listen. But you can ask: to get such an eye, should I swim through heap of paper (yep its bulky) and thousands of pictures? As for art, you can take pleasure with art as much as you know classics. Therefore, the encyclopedic approach of this book is reasonable. And that, its not boring at all to follow through explaining artworks one by one. Like other arts, visual art has its convention to interpret text which varies from age to age. One should learn how to read it. This book is a good guidebook to practice and learn how to read artwork. With closing the last page, you could overview the history of visual art since the 19th century and enjoy viewing artwork. And that, you could boast your good taste to your friends ;)	2002-07-13
US	49955484	R1G8QMQCUCNAVQ	0070311277	955540253	The Shock of the New: The Hundred-Year History of Modern Art: Its Rise, Its Dazzling Achievement, It's Fall	Books	5	20	22	N	N	The rise and fall of modernism	This is based on the script for a BBC program. To be a good TV program, it should have a clear and plain storyline which could fit into limited timetable. You can identify such a feature in the form of book, though substantially enlarged. The author did his best to make a clear impression of what was modernism in the visual art on reader (and audience). The author begin the book with what modernist artists perceived as the new in their time. They thought they lived in thoroughly distinct time from the tradition. The new age demanded the new art. Modernism is the logical upshot of their zeitgeist. To understand it, we should pay attention to the interaction between artists and the time. <BR>In this regard, Hughes organized the book not in time order or changing styles but with keywords which summarize the zeitgeist of modernists like machine, power, pleasure, utopia, freedom, popular culture, or future, to endow the reader with the tangible vision to see into the deep question of modernism.	2002-07-13
US	49955484	RW1YOYKFTBK4O	0415029104	784304649	Economy and Society	Books	4	1	1	N	N	No more than programmatic remark	...The author seems to intend to be read in the second way. The aim of this book is to explain the relationship between economy and society: so called the problem of embeddedness.  In the early 1990s, the functionalist view was taken to found that concept in the circle of sociology. In other word, the social factor in economy was captured as culture in the functionalist meaning. This approach has not much problem for the functionalist definition of culture can be read as routine, and can be translated into the term of institution in the line of institutional economics. In doing so, the author reviews various lines in sociological tradition, Marx, Weber, Durkheim and so forth and recent developments in the theory of the state. <BR>But the problem is this: Is this book effective till now? I dont think so. Nobody argues the conception of embeddedness is problematic. Its now the established concept. Moreover, embeddedness is no more than a programmatic remark. Now institutionalism prevails over social sciences. What is needed now is a set of vocabulary to analyze the phenomena: for example, the buzzword like social capital.	2002-07-10
US	49955484	R1K7EBQ1OYFSZZ	0520081153	894750627	The Wheels of Commerce (Civilization and Capitalism: 15Th-18th Century -Volume 2)	Books	5	5	13	N	N	Topology of the market	This is the second volume of Braudels Civilization and Capitalism. The second volume deals with the market economy, while the first volume, Structures of Everyday Life takes on infra-economy or material civilization. As I said on the review of the first volume, in the pre-industrialized societies, the market system is not the only form of resource allocation. The material civilization is the first layer of economy on the bottom, the market system is the second layer located above the first layer. The exchange or commerce was not natural economy but artificial economy in the jargon of the 18th C economics: Market is premised on the separation of production and consumption. Such a division is not natural, but is developed over long time. In this vein, the market is not natural at all. The market is the point in which material life and economic life meet each other. The market is the network. It links region to region, national economy to national economy. The form and scope of market has been evolved over time. When we track the forms of market, we could paint the history of capitalism. Nonetheless, Capitalism is often regarded as synonymous to market economy. But market is not unique to capitalism. But it goes without saying that capitalism cant exist without market. All economic activities under capitalism are carried out on the market. Changes in the form of market signals the changes of capitalism. When, for example,  we talk about globalization, we have in mind the change of market based on national economy to global market. The second volume is about the topology of market. Based on the scope of space the market serves, we could trace out the path of capitalism since the 15th C. But market is not capitalism. To understand this point, youd better check the third volume, The Perspective of the World.	2002-07-10
US	49955484	R2ANUYR46ZSWC7	0205318479	5853215	Qualitative Research Methods for the Social Sciences (4th Edition)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	For undergraduate class	This book is a textbook on qualitative research methods at undergraduate level. To be a good and useful enough textbook on research methods, it must have two features:<BR>1. the extensive coverage of existing methods to be used in the field.<BR>2. elucidating those methods not only in abstract and theoretical words but also with live examples from real field works to grasp real sense of each method.<BR>Fortunately, this textbook has both aspects. It embraces from classical methods like interview, fieldwork to young methods like sociometry, historiography. Moreover, it deals with, in depth, post processing of data. For quantitative methods, such processing has been automated with such packages like SPSS or SAS. But for qualitative methods, standardizing data is tricky and complex for the nature of data. But data should be treated anyway. This book briefly introduces reader to that process. Furthermore, unlike other textbooks simply enumerating various methods, this book attempts to explain them from consistent viewpoint, dramaturgy. As you know, dramaturgy interprets the activity of research itself such social process as the object of research. Such an approach orients readers towards what the research would be like in the field. In this view, research is portrayed so in dynamic and vivid way as to get a image of research with more ease. <BR>But as the author incessantly points out, research methods could be learned not by reading but by doing. You should practice it to know it. Explanation in textbook is no more than a map to the destination, not the destination itself.	2002-07-09
US	49955484	R2KNSCN3NMVTDC	0520081161	249671244	The Perspective of the World: Civilization and Capitalism 15Th-18th Century, Vol. 3	Books	5	16	16	N	N	The time of the world	This is the third volume of Braudel's 'Civilization and Capitalism' The third volume is about the capitalism as world economy. This is the reason why Braudel says that capitalism is premised on market economy. But market economy is not capitalism. To grasp this point, we should pay attention to Braudel's conception of time.<br />Braudel sees three levels of time. Events time is the immediately observable. But the event doesn't explain itself. They have to be placed within the context of what Braudel called conjunctures, or the set of forces that prepare the ground for events. Conjectural time is medium term; the span of an economic cycle, of a certain configuration of social forces, or of a certain paradigm of scientific knowledge. At the deepest level is longue duree. It involves structures of thought (mentality) that are very slow to change: economic organization, social practices, political institutions, language, and values. These structures are all cohesive and interdependent, yet each moves at a different pace. Conjunctural changes that become consolidate and stabilized could signal a change in the longue duree. Events are conditioned and shaped by the structures of the longue duree, but events may also cumulatively challenge, undermine, and transform these structures. The explanation of history involves the interaction of all three levels of time.<br />Three levels of time correspond to three layers of economy. capitalism has the longue duree as its modality of time. But Braudel use the term, capitalism a bit different from Marx's definition. Braudel defines capitalism as world-economy. There have been several world-economies throughout history. Capitalism is only one of them. World-economy structures (or organizes) the space as a hierarchy of division of labor. At the top of the hierarchy lies a center. Several world-cities surround it. So world-economy is about patterning space around a central city. This is the point Braudel meets the world system theory. In fact, Wallerstein, the proponent of world system theory borrowed Braudel's idea. American world system theories centered on Wallerstein and the SUNY's Braudel Center.fact, Wallerstein, the proponent of world system theory borrowed Braudel's idea. American world system theories centered on Wallerstein and the SUNY's Braudel Center.	2002-07-05
US	49955484	R3ADVHTZDS2JX1	0415246369	703879656	Culture and Politics in the Information Age: A New Politics? (Transnationalism)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	New social movements under network society	This book is a collection of papers presented in a conference. The question writers pose in this book is about the relationship between new social movements and IT. IT has revolutionized the communication thereby reshaped forms of political mobilization, protest. For example, protests on Ceatle, Rome, etc against globalization took the form of multinational movements. It was possible by internet to mobilize, organize on a global scale. Moreover, IT enabled social movements to take global agenda like global warming, GMO, and globalization. <BR>In sum, papers in this book examines the interation between social movements and IT in respect to identity, strategy, and mobilization of social movements	2002-07-05
US	49955484	R3DH4PPXFIXR69	0553277472	340684550	Zen and the Art of Motorcycle Maintenance: An Inquiry into Values	Books	4	0	2	N	N	The nature of principles	One might think the title of the book is contradictory or at best misleading for this book is not for technician repairing or riding motorcycle at all. But once closing final page, you should conclude that the title makes sense. The authors question is what is the reason or principle in relation to the life? the law of nature or principles of the world, those are the one the science seeks to find. But those are abstract and empty in its nature. Zen is the method to transcend that abstractness to concreteness of life itself. Principles are abstracted from the rich context of concrete life. But once abstracted, we forget where it comes from. Zen asks us to find principle in the life by ourselves. <BR>The author show the point of Zen in the form of novel. Motorcycle is the product of engineering and science. So its the result of principle-seeking activities. But motorcycle could not be rid with just knowing scientific principles. Moreover, it doesnt need those knowledge at all. Just like riding motorcycle, living through everyday life doesnt need knowing abstract principles. Principles needed in life is concrete one put in practice. Zen is the method to find principle in practice.	2002-07-02
US	49955484	R1HRGY8CS9TQ76	0679772537	13759843	The Age of Revolution: 1789-1848	Books	5	7	9	N	N	The rise of modern civil society	Hobsbawm is a prominent historian. This is the first volume of trilogy which covers from 1789 to 1914 of Europe. The first volume is about how the modern civil society emerged in Europe through dual revolution. Modern civil society emerged took shape with French revolution and Industrial revolution. While in England, civil society rose only through industrial revolution, nation-states in continent were shaped with dual revolution. Dual revolution eradicated ancient regimes and caused the great socioeconomic earthquake. The period this volume covers was mired in the influence of its impact. The author illustrates a convincing picture of that age: what were the impacts on society, economy, thoughts, religion, sciences, and arts; how the modern civil society was completed.<br />But that kind of subjects has been widely tackled. Then why another book on the mountain of paper? The advantage of the trilogy lies in its way of depiction. The author persuasively shows that the history is not only about institutions, or economy, but also about human drama: how the people lived through their time. Moreover, the trilogy was written not for colleague scholars but for layperson. It&iexcl;¯s easy and fun to read. But, no doubt, it doesn&iexcl;¯t mean that it lacks depth: the aim of the book, the author said, is not description but interpretation. In that way, the book was endowed with coherence as meaningful entity. It&iexcl;¯s the virtue that is hard to achieve in scholarly writing intended to be read by other scholars.	2002-06-30
US	49955484	R1BIU47F275RU0	0761956921	925225896	The Consumer Society: Myths and Structures (Published in association with Theory, Culture & Society)	Books	4	10	18	N	N	Symbolic exchange	This book is an earlier text of Baudrillard. Baudrillard is considered as a major theorist of postmodernism. But at the time he wrote this book, he was not postmodernist but Marxist. In 1973, Baudrillard divorced with Marxism. But before that year, he maintained the Marxist stance. His main subject was the political economy in Marxist style and the society of consumption in Frankfurt school&iexcl;¯s style. He was a pupil of Henry Lefevre who expanded the scope of Marxism into the study of everyday life. Baudrillard took the area his mentor opened up, but approached it somewhat differently: he borrowed frameworks of structuralism. He transformed Marx&iexcl;¯s distinction of use value/exchange value into the semiotics of consumption. Society is the field where symbolic exchange, in Marcel Mauss&iexcl;¯s term, takes place. What is exchanged in symbolic exchange is not use value but exchange (or symbolic) value. We consume the object not only of its use value but of its symbolic value. Object is exchanged as sign in symbolic exchange. Goods could signify the social status. Object could be desired not only in its use value but in its symbolic value that make difference to its owner from others: consumption could be interpreted as the logic of social distinction. In later texts, he asserted that capitalist society is centered not on production but on consumption. There could be not much objection upto this point. But, he argues, the logic of social distinction is not produced by consumer. It&iexcl;¯s the system of signification that is imposed on consumer. In this point, Baudrillard depicts such an unreal picture of iron cage as Frankfurt school did. The system of signification is illustrated as the something of a big brother we can&iexcl;¯t exercise any say. But that kind of image is not the one we experience in daily life. Marx said, &iexcl;®Men make history, but not in their own choice.&iexcl;¯ Social fact like language transcend individual. We didn&iexcl;¯t choose our own mother tongue. We were born into it. But it doesn&iexcl;¯t deny the point that we make history. The system Baudrillard delineated is not unearthly fantasy. But where does it come from? It&iexcl;¯s the creature we make and change day by day. But in Baudrillard&iexcl;¯s world, such a point is lost. On Baudrillard&iexcl;¯s picture, the individual is lost. Baudrillard only takes a shot of horror film. In terms of methodology, Baudrillard makes non-sense.doesnt deny the point that we make history. The system Baudrillard delineated is not unearthly fantasy. But where does it come from? Its the creature we make and change day by day. But in Baudrillards world, such a point is lost. On Baudrillards picture, the individual is lost. Baudrillard only takes a shot of horror film. In terms of methodology, Baudrillard makes non-sense.	2002-06-30
US	49955484	RZM7L5C2KFNO6	0070165246	643551175	Course In General Linguistics	Books	5	8	17	N	N	The origin of structuralism	This book is the manifesto of structural linguistics. But it has been widely read outside linguistics for it served as corner stone of structuralism. It was not intended to be published. In fact Saussure never wrote any book. It was principally a lecture. So lines of the book are easy to follow and clear-cut. But the power of the statement could be felt even now. It set off the mighty paradigm. <BR>As Foucault said in his work, The Order of Things, the history of thoughts is the history of models. For example, the biology, in particular Darwins evolutionism, served as model to thoughts of the 19th century: beliefs in progression of Marxism and liberalism drew on the analogy between society and evolution of organism. Functionalism in social sciences also utilized that analogy. The 19th century is the age of biology. The linguistics of that time also took the organic model as the fountain of inspiration: the language is a organic entity which evolves though time. Phoneme and word change, in other word evolve over time. In Saussures term, its the diachronic aspect of phoneme and word. The linguistics of the 19th century was the history of them. But Saussure contended that phoneme and word have no memory: at any point of parole (the language in practice), each word has only one meaning. In everyday life, etymology doesnt make sense at all. The reality of language lies not in diachrony but in synchrony. This is the point where Saussure redefined the linguistics: the object of linguistics is not diachronic (or historical) fact but synchronic system (langue, in Saussures term). <BR>Phoneme and word make sense not in their own, but against systemic background like grammar. The object of the linguistics is not phoneme or word in practice (parole) but the system that gives meaning them (langue). Phoneme and word have meaning only in the way how they are different from each other. The langue is the system of that difference. Here comes in the very concept ofstructure that give rise to French structuralism. Structuralism is the thoughts based on the model of language which Saussure redefined, that is the system of difference	2002-06-30
US	49955484	R3DFD0MZ19SF7	0860917207	744456183	Considerations on Western Marxism	Books	5	19	23	N	N	Negative dialectics between theory and practice	Perry Anderson is a leading editor of New Left review and a prominent Marxist historian. His two part work, Passages from Antiquity to Feudalism and Lineage of the Absolutist State (see my reviews on those books for detail), is now counted as classic. In this short booklet, he poses two perplexing questions: why have Western Marxists been written so difficult to read?; why has there been no significant research on politics and economy among Western Marxists circle? Marxism is initially oriented towards practice. So its theory should be easy to be read by layperson and for its major premise is to transform the political economy, Marxist theory should tackle the very target of the transformation. But leading figures of Western Marxism, such as Lukacs, members of Frankfurt school like Adorno, Horkheimer, Marcuse, Wlater Benjamin, and Fromm, paid little, if any, attention to economics or politics, but to methodology, philosophy or aesthetics. Besides, their writing styles are not behind Hegel or Heidegger in its difficulty to decipher. <BR>Perry Anderson argues that its because the lack of prospect of revolution after the end of World War I. Marxist theorists were isolated from working class that was supposed to be the agent of revolution to end capitalism. Without such a vision, Marxist theorists were obsessed with pessimism. They could not have the vision of revolution. So philosophy and aesthetics were the escape from reality. For example, most works of Frankfurt school take a cynical stance against the reality under capitalism. They need a sanctuary protected from polluted reality. But that kind of place could not be found in the real world. Philosophy and aesthetics provide the spot to look down on the muddy secular world. <BR>One writes to be read by others. But interwar Marxists did not imagine of any reader in working class. Therefore their works should be directed to colleague scholars in ivory tower. <BR>In Adornos word, such a stance shouldbe called as Negative Dialectics. Adorno said Negative dialectics is a phrase flouts tradition. As early as Plato, dialectics meant to achieve something positive by means of negation: the thought figure of a negation of negationNegative dialectics seeks to free dialectics from such affirmative traits. Its negation for negation. There is nothing to be achieved (revolution). Dialectics, thus, cannot but float over reality towards unrealized, maybe unattainable, reality.	2002-06-28
US	49955484	R1KO3OJC7RYGIZ	0520081145	451795696	Civilization and Capitalism, 15th-18th Century, Vol. I: The Structure of Everyday Life	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Material civilization, economy, and capitalism	This is the first volume of trilogy, Civilization and Capitalism. As widely known, Fernand Braudel is the leading figure in the second generation of Annal school. The trilogy is counted as the classic with his earlier work, The Mediterranean and the Mediterranean World in the Age of Philip II. You could have rough idea of it, from the phrase in the preface to the second edition of The Mediterranean: It was with much hesitation that I undertook a new edition of The Mediterranean. Some of my friends advised me to change nothing, not a word, not a comma, arguing that a work that had become a classic should not be altered. Not many texts come into mind with such a glorious honor. The trilogy enjoys the same distinctive position. <BR>The trilogy is about how capitalism has worked since its inception in the 15th C. now a day, the market economy carries on the resource allocation: almost all resources in material or human form are traded as goods or services in the market. But when delving into pre-industrialized society, the clear picture of economy gets murky. Only a part of resources were circulated through the market. Still barter trade and subsistence production had its say. Braudel says he had no fitting words for this economy beneath the market. so he reluctantly choose not that clever words like, infra-economy or material civilization. The first volume is about the economy beneath the market. This economy might be all about human activity embodied in material form such as foods, clothe, housing, money. So the material civilization is our day-to-day life. So the title of the first volume is the structures of everyday life: the possible and the impossible. The materiality of day-to-day life or material civilization conditions the possible and the impossible of the age. Those conditions are like these: population, the labor productivity which is determined by technology, available land to be utilized to produce goods. This infra-economy or ourday-to-day is also where all human activity take place. So it must be the place the order of society is realized. The order is the continued form of the day-to-day social activity: routine. Not only material conditions but also routines determine the possible and the impossible of the age. The former could be called as economy and the latter as society in the words of our days, but not precisely. The economy has three layers, Braudel argues. To understand Braudels argument, we should know his conception of time. For such a conception, see vol.3, 'The Perspective of the world'.	2002-06-28
US	49955484	R2AR859A9HS4DL	0875805442	385360007	A Commentary on Heidegger's Being and Time	Books	4	8	13	N	N	A useful complement to ¡®Being and Time¡¯	As the subtitle, A section-by-section interpretation, implies, this book is a section-by-section exegesis on Heideggers Being and Time. So you should not expect an abridged reproducing Heideggers book, though each sections content is closely recaptured. This book is not intended to replace original text. If you dont read Heideggers text, I think dont think you can get much with this book. This kind of book is needed when the text of philosopher is so inexplicable that it takes even several years to decipher line by line. German masters of philosophy, like Kant, Hegel, Husserl, and Heidegger, are notorious for their enigmatic writing style. That kind of style might be caused by the nature of the subject they deal with: they proposed not what the readers were accustomed to but what the author himself had not known the words to express their thought. So their books are littered with neologisms and mysterious expressions. Thus its no wonder that there has been a plethora of exegesis on their works like this book. <BR>Once you pick a work to read through, it would take time to reach the last page. So you could not remember what the author said in previous part, when you read other part. Then you have to read back previous part to understand the next part. But that previous part would ask you to remember the content of the other earlier part. Then you cannot but trace back to that part. It must end in endless circular flipping. But in that way, it must take a few years to read a work once at all! In that case, this kind of book is matchlessly helpful. <BR>Another use of this kind of book is that you can peep into the summary of each section before you venture into that part. Yep, you cant capture real image with the brief summary. But it must be helpful and save your precious time. But for this kind of usage, I recommend to read another book at the same time: Dreyfus Being-in-the-world. It has more depth than this book, though it does not cover whole line of the text; only Division I of Being and Time. And if you are seriously to delve into Being and Time, I recommend to read Kisiels The Genesis of Heideggers Being & Time. As the title implies, this book covers Heideggers manuscripts written before publishing Being and Time.	2002-06-27
US	49955484	R26K2BU1I5F0M9	0751200158	336928650	Hegel's Phenomenology: A Philosophical Introduction (Modern Revivals in Philosophy)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Grasping Hegel in contrast to other philosophers	This book is complementary introduction to Hegels Phenomenology of the Mind. It follows through Hegels thought chapter by chapter. Primarily, this book is the commentary and recapturing of the book chapter by chapter. But it is not simple exegesis. It recaptures the nub of each chapter not in simple briefing, but in the way to place Hegel against other philosophers like Descartes, Locke, Kant, Husserl, Ayer, Wittgenstein and so forth. In that way, we can capture Hegels line with more ease. But dont afraid. You dont have to know other philosophers. They are mobilized to bring out Hegel in contrast to other philosophers. So the author does not present them in detail, but to the point in relation to Hegels line, in the way not requiring some knowledge on the philosopher. <BR>For other complementary material, I recommend Werner Marxs Hegels Phenomenology of the Mind. though its confined to the preface and introduction, the author tactically captures the essence of the book. W. Marxs book is about some vocabulary in preface and introduction. He explains them in relation to the tradition of German idealism. If you are familiar with Kant, it must be helpful. Some recommend Jean Hyppolites Genesis and Structure of Hegels Phenomenology of the Mind. But in my view, its more difficult to follow than Hegels own book.	2002-06-27
US	49955484	REED1K5AUK0KU	0520204239	257788776	The Dialectical Imagination: A History of the Frankfurt School and the Institute of Social Research, 1923-1950 (Weimar and Now: German Cultural Criticism)	Books	5	7	18	N	N	Locating thought in the right context	Frankfurt school is now a part of history. Not much of its arguments are reproduced now a day. For example, their critical cultural theory opened up the vast terrain of cultural study in capitalism. But their characterizing cultural consumer as dumb passive receiver is too much extreme to be real. Now nobody hold up such a position. Its perspective seems locked in the interwar period. Indeed, the power of the school comes from the distinctive problematic derived from such a peculiar era. But the strength is the source of weakness. But even we don&iexcl;¯t follow their lines, we should know what they said at least in cursory manner, for their theories are now classic in each field.<br />This book must be still the most authoritative history of Frankfurt school from its inception to 1950. but it deals with not only chronological events but also what the first generation of the school, such as Horkheimer, Adorno, Marcuse, Walter Benjamin, and Fromm, worked. This book is the intellectual history of the school. The author illustrates the school against the time of school. As Hegel said, thought is the child of its time. So the thought should be located in the right context to understand. The society of Western intellectuals faced a crisis in the interwar period. The impact was severe especially to German intellectuals. The thought of Frankfurt school is one of the reactions to the crisis. Marin Jay succeeds in reconstruct their time in front of us. This book is the &iexcl;®must&iexcl;¯, if you want to be oriented to Frankfurt school.	2002-06-26
US	49955484	R2RHK9S1JKVAP0	086091710X	525872441	Lineages of the Absolutist State	Books	5	19	23	N	N	Comparative Study of Absolutism	This is the second volume of the two part work. The first volume is Passages from Antiquity to Feudalism. On a review of the first volume, I explained the purpose of the work. So Ill go directly to the content of the second volume. <BR>This volume deals with the absolute monarchies. Absolute monarchies emerged from the crisis of feudalism which was tackled in the first volume. Anderson begins with the conventional consensus: Absolute monarchies are the reconstruction of feudal state to defend the interest of ruling class. Anderson overviews the path various countries like Spain, France, England, Italy, Sweden, Prussia, Poland, Austria, Russia, Islamic world, and Japan followed from the 16th century to the emergence of modern nation-states. The reason he covered Eastern Europe is the same one as he does in the first volume: comparative study. he argues that Western absolutism are different from Eastern absolutism. They follow different lineages. The aim of this volume is to answer the question, why the capitalism emerged in Western Europe just like the first volume. But the main point of the second volume lies in comparing Western Europe and Eastern Europe. Why did seemingly the same absolutism diverged?	2002-06-26
US	49955484	RVS31AW22IUVZ	0860917096	800116102	Passages from Antiquity to Feudalism	Books	5	31	37	N	N	Rethinking ethnocentric historical materialism	Perry Anderson is a leading editor of 'New Left Review' and well-known Marxist historian. This book is the first volume of a two part work. The second volume is 'Lineage of the Absolutist State' Those two volumes cover the whole history of pre-capitalist Western world from Greco-Roman antiquity to Absolutist monarchies. It's incredible how one research could cover that range of time. Moreover, he maintains his distinctive perspective throughout two volumes. His problem is the same one as Marx and Weber posed: the formation of capitalism. But Anderson's problem is somewhat narrower: why did the capitalism emerge in Europe rather than in more advanced China, India or Islamic world at that time? To answer the question, he traces back to Greco-Roman antiquity. His answer in the first volume is this: it's because the West was formulated through combining antiquity and feudalism. It doesn't seem distinctive at all. But he questioned in the line of Marxist tradition and his answer could have meaning only in that line. his terminology is different from traditional Marxist one. He recasts the conventional definition of antiquity and feudalism: he contends that the antiquity and the Western feudalism had idiosyncratic modes of production. For example, the slavery itself, which was the dominant mode of production in antiquity, could be common in that time. But outside Greco-Roman world, the slavery was not dominant mode of production. Moreover, the Western feudalism was formed through fusing totally different modes of production: a synthesis of Greco-Roman society and German society. So features of Western feudalism are restricted to its own context, not catholic ones. If we treat it as universal, Anderson argues, we can't explain why the capitalism merged only in the West. To prove his proposition, Anderson compares the different paths Western Europe and Eastern Europe followed. Furthermore, he redefines the relationship between superstructure and infrastructure. As Braudel maintained with his jargon, longue duree, Anderson asserts that components of superstructure, such as the state, religion, value, law, convention, also affect the mode of production.	2002-06-26
US	49955484	R13XO29XOMA6HH	002925390X	40170705	Trade and Market in the Early Empires	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Market is not the law of nature	This was edited by Karl Polanyi not Arensberg Polanyi. The book info on this site is not correct. <BR>Anyway, Since the neoliberalism seizes the time, Polanyi revives from the sea of oblivion. His masterpiece, The Great Transformation is, in essence, a critic of liberalism which was the Zeitgeist of the 19th century, as I mentioned in a review of the book. Not surprisingly he was mobilized as a weapon to attack neoliberalism which could develop into the Zeitgeist of globalization. Polanyi questioned the very nature of the market, and concluded its not the law of nature. This book is the endeavor to provide the evidence to his proposition. He argues that trade was not practice through market in early empires before Aristotles Greece, at least in the West and Middle East, Maya, and so forth. At that time, resources were allocated through not the market but the system of reciprocity and redistribution. Early Egypt and other early empires were the system of power to allocate resources on the principles of reciprocity and redistribution. In this vein, the politics was also the economics. The trade was not the business of merchant but the business of the state: it was between states. Trade happened when some state couldnt defeat other state with military forces. The point coincides with recent mainstream theories of the state like Tillys or Giddens: at the root of the state lies not the contract among equal individuals as Rousseau maintained but the violence that seeks the rents like trophy. This point is supported by the fact that before capitalist market emerged, most traded items were, in its nature, the luxury consumed by ruling class. The market merged around the time of Aristotle. So, Polanyi argues, its no wonder and reasonable that Aristotle didnt understand the system of market and saw it as the evil thing to social order.	2002-06-26
US	49955484	R2UDJIQFVMJG2R	0521097851	608942080	Capitalism and Modern Social Theory: An Analysis of the Writings of Marx, Durkheim and Max Weber	Books	5	11	14	N	N	Seeing master through master	Giddens is the most well-known British social scientist after Keynes and one of three masters in sociology with Bourdieu and Habermas. This book has been widely used as textbook in classes on the history of sociology, while his more recent book, Introduction to Sociology ahs occupied most introductory classes of sociology. <BR>1. Giddens might be the best and deepest understander of three father of sociology. The prestige and appeal of his structuration theory might be rooted in that mastery. Before proposed the outline of structuration theory in New Rules of Sociological Method, he spent about ten years in digging into three founders: Marx, Weber, and Durkheim. This book is the fruit of that effort. <BR>Unlike usual textbook, this book us not simple introduction to classical theorists. The need to read classics lies in the problem sociology poses to itself: what is the modernity? Whereas other sister disciplines pose somewhat narrower problems-capitalism for economics, democracy for political sciences- sociology questions the modernity itself. Thats the very problem three fathers posed over a century ago. But still we question the same problem in the way they set. So we should always return to classics when meeting the fundamental problem. <BR>2. The style of this book is clear, easy-to-follow, and jargon-free enough to be used in undergraduate introductory class. But it doesnt mean that there is no depth in this book. Giddens argues that thoughts of Weber and Durkheim should be understood as the reaction to Marx. His emphasis is convincing and offers a good standpoint to look up three fathers as a whole. Such a point is invaluable to beginners. Moreover, his interpretations are opposite to conventional wisdom, with solid grounds. He contends that there is no discontinuity between young Marx and late Marx, against humanist views like Frankfurt schools and structuralist exposition like Althussers; there is no inconsistency I Weber. He was alwaysa radical neo-Kantian;  the relationship of Weber and Marx should be seen as creative tension rather than antagonism; Durkheims point lies in not primarily in the problem of order but in the changing nature of order in the context of social development.	2002-06-26
US	49955484	R1HRFDJG98PO4Q	0415189454	913649545	Encyclopedia of Japanese Business and Management	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Most up to date	For the dictionary on Japanese economy, MIT Encyclopedia of the Japanese Economy has been widely used. Such a dictionary is needed for you cant read all the material on the Japanese economy. Literatures on Japanese economy are still flooding on the market. Moreover, there are so many sub-disciplines that you can never read through them all, and even making a reading list is prohibitively time-consuming. <BR>MIT Encyclopedia was updated in 1999 to the 2nd edition. It deals with mainly big topics such as unemployment with some length. But this book, published in 2002, tackles not only general economic subjects, but business affairs like Sony, Japanese business in US, and Chalmers Johnson, as title implies. And that I think the quality of articles is not behind MITs. This books contributors are well-known figures in Japanese studies. And like MITs at the end of each article is the reading list on that subject.	2002-06-24
US	49955484	R1GDD94JQB9FVE	0801485436	152634243	The Myth of the Powerless State (Cornell Studies in Political Economy)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	No Convergence will happen	As globalization makes its way, the world seems to converge to the neoliberal free market on the global scale. They argue that in such an environment, the room for state to maneuver increasingly shrinks. Reports about the decline of the welfare state and the death of Japanese-style industrial policy have been captured the scene. The author questions Is it real? In the face of challenge from global market, cant the state chase the goal of national prosperity and distributive fairness any more? Should the state take the role of midwife of global market? The author argues that globalization has been exaggerated. The world economy is still the field that we are accustomed to. In fact, globalization is a stepped-up internationalization, the author argues. The state is still a important political and economic actor. EU integration, Pacific regional integration of production has been taken as example of globalization. But those are project launched with initiatives of strong states like Germany, Japan. The global market cant be sustained without resolute backing of states. States still pursue their objectives in the world with rigor. <BR>And the convergence toward the model of Anglo-Saxon liberal state is unlikely to come: the author argues that states have different capacities. Sweden has the distributive capacity; Japan has the transformative capacity (so called developmental state); Germany has both capacity. Capability varies from person to person. Just like that, capacities of the state vary. The capacity is how efficiently mobilize which resource. That kind of capacity is hard to attain and take time to shape. Time-proven effective capacity would not be given up. Its unlikely all the states will converge toward one model. So the states ability to adapt to globalization and the path each state will follow must be diverse. The world is still the field where the state competes against each other. In that game, they mobilize resources available to them.	2002-06-24
US	49955484	R3KFG25LPF1QAG	0853459401	413171526	Labor and Monopoly Capital: The Degradation of Work in the Twentieth Century	Books	4	15	29	N	N	Technological determinism	This book is the classic in the field of labor process. Marx put the labor process at the center of his masterpiece, The Capital. But since then, not much, if any, studies were done in Marxist schools. This book filled the temporal gap between Marx and the 20th century in the Marxist tradition. The author focused on the labor process under the Fordism. Braverman illustrates convincingly how the work, under the discipline of scientific management or Taylorism, becomes fragmented, dull, and repetitive tasks. The work is degraded. There has been not much objection to this argument. But when it comes to technology, things are different. His argument has too much smell of determinism. The theme of this book could put in this way: how the peculiar technological change in Fordism affected the feature of work and the differentiation of working class. No dispute. But his prophecy on technological change seems to go too far: every new technology just destroys our jobs and degrades the work. This kind of grim image has proliferated with the high-tech wave of the 1990s. Should we listen to such a forecast? I dont think so. <BR>Braverman made a wrong calculation. In the larger picture, technological innovations, driven towards cost-saving and enhancing efficiency, bring job growth with revamped competitiveness of the industry and economy-wide. For example, in the US economy, when the IT investment leaped up in service sector during the 1980s, unemployment rate skyrocketed. But despite continuous downsizing and rapid diffusion of IT, unemployment rate fell sharply in the 1990s. High rates in EU area and Japan should be attributed to the factors of business cycle or rigid labor market. If Harry Braverman took the helm, the economy would end up in bankruptcy to nobodys interest. Its the picture of France or Spain, Italy. Even in Italy, the technologically innovative north faces labor shortage not unemployment. Here we can hardly see any relationship between new technologyand overall unemployment rate. <BR>Sure. Every new technology makes old one obsolete, so it lead to deskilling of labor. But in turn, it entails its own skilled labor. Since the 1970s, the manufacturing sector experienced substantial technological upgrading. It resulted in the shift of labor market composition: jobs in manufacturing, less-educated work declined. Investment in earlier technologies negatively impacted mainly low-skilled production workers, particularly in the 1970s and early 1980s, whereas investment in IT negatively impacted mainly low-skilled white-collar workers in the 1980s and 1990s. Resulting bloody downsizing and restructuring have decimated so many middle-paying jobs in factories and offices. Workers who lost those jobs, especially older workers, are likely fall into lower-paying jobs or, facing long-term unemployment, retire from the labor force. But all kinds of new jobs are being created as the old ones disappear, although the new jobs go to new entrants or younger workers moving up the job ladder. <BR>Technophobe alarmists gain popularity because whatever the effect of creative destruction might be, the impact on employment is hardly painless. Technology is important. However, what is technology at all? It made no sense, were it not run by people. The impacts of technology on work are not simple, not necessarily direct, and cannot be considered in isolation. As seen above, their relation is not clear but spurious at best. The real mechanism lies in political and economic contexts that govern the conditions of work. Thus, when we talk about technology, we cannot forget about all those other human factors affect its use and what it does to the lives of workers, employers and citizens	2002-06-24
US	49955484	R1F11784MK07SL	0472065211	958482831	Simulacra and Simulation (The Body, In Theory: Histories of Cultural Materialism)	Books	4	13	20	N	N	Hyper-reality? Hyper-confusion!	Culture is made up of communication process. And all forms of communication are based on the production and consumption of signs. Thus there is no intrinsic division between reality and symbolic representation. Humankind has existed in and acted through a symbolic environment. But we tend to distinguish reality from representation. Nevertheless, the advent of electric media like TV, computer, film, and multimedia, such a distinction become increasingly blurred away. This is the context where Baudrillard gained the popularity. But I disagree with him. According to Giddens, day-to-day life premised on distinction of presence and absence. Presence is a time-space notion, just as absence can refer to distances in time and space. All social interactions intermingle presence and absence. We are not confusing Mr. Bush on TV from real Bush, although weve never met him and he is not here. But the point of Baudrillard is that Bush on TV is real Bush. Yep. We consume the virtual reality on computer, images of film not as representation of some other real thing, but as it is. But we could distinguish absent Bush (image on TV) from present Bush at the White House. If one could not do so, he must be mad. <BR>Baudrillards proposition has some good points on the events in cultural domain. But he goes too far.	2002-06-24
US	49955484	R2FIOWM5CZJHLG	0262620332	42738407	The Young Hegel: Studies in the Relations between Dialectics and Economics (MIT Press)	Books	5	12	18	N	N	A necessary step to grasp Hegel	Just like other masters of German philosophy, Hegel is notorious for the inaccessibility. Kant, Husserl, Heidegger, all call for reader to master the history of Western philosophy before deciphering their works. When it comes to Hegel¡¯s ¡®Phenomenology of the Mind¡¯, the author¡¯s demand on reader goes too far. Every chapter in the part of ¡®Consciousness¡¯ is, in fact, the history of philosophy with no referring any specific names. Moreover, ¡®Introduction¡¯ is not at all introducing reader into anything. It¡¯s the recapturing of the whole work. It must be the most difficult part in the book. So it¡¯s incomprehensible until you reads through the final page of the book. Reading Hegel is like swimming through wet sand. Moreover, Hegel published absolutely nothing preceding ¡®Phenomenology of the Mind¡¯. This fact compounded the difficulty immensely. So much so that one is forced to regard that complex work so something that sprung full-grown, like Athena, from the head of Zeus. <br />But with Lukacs¡¯s help, you can manage to read Hegel with much more ease. I think Hegel¡¯s contemporary readers had no such difficulty in reading his works. Kant¡¯s propositions and the problem of British empiricism and continental rationalism were the common sense to them. But that kind of knowledge should be obtained, to us, with hard work through reading history of philosophy. Moreover, we can¡¯t sense the historical events like French revolution as vividly as Hegel and his contemporaries felt. We can¡¯t share the same horizon with Hegel. To overcome such obstacles, Hegel¡¯s time should be reconstructed. To do so, Lukacs traced back unpublished manuscripts from Hegel¡¯s gymnasium days to just before writing ¡®Phenomenology of the Mind¡¯. And that, he links Hegel¡¯s personal history to his contemporary events, to show why Hegel thought so. Lukacs¡¯s illustration is easy and graphic enough to grasp who Hegel is. It¡¯s the touch of master. As you know Lukacs is a celebrated Hegelian Marxist philosopher. He opened up the track Frankfurt school and other Hegelian Marxists followed. This book is so much aged. Lukacs wrote this book when he escaped from the hand of Nazi to Moscow. But I haven¡¯t heard of any big name with Hegelian trait since World War II. Only Marxist reads Hegel now. And in the field of philosophy, Hegel and Marxism is out of fashion. So you can¡¯t expect any master like Lukacs write a intellectual biography on Hegel. If you try Hegel, this book is ¡®must¡¯.	2002-06-24
US	49955484	RALMZSWWKUB73	0132246503	789078580	Economics, Organization and Management	Books	4	15	15	N	N	A textbook on the firm.	This book is probably the first textbook on economics of organization. Since published in 1992, it has been widely used in classes. The main framework of the book lies in the conception of the firm as a system of incentive/coordination to allocate efficiently resources. So this book is an extension of neoclassical approach to the area of organization, though such concepts like bounded rationality and transaction cost are incorporated deeply into the architecture of the book. Unlike usual textbooks, this book has the overarching coherence with theoretical depth over various subjects like centralized/decentralized organization, moral hazard, rent, ownership, human resource management, investment, corporate governance. Such consistency is possible for its theoretical position: neoclassical approach. In that stance, the actor is motivated in its rational calculation, in other word incentive, although its bounded in terms of information. How to organize such actor into an organization is the problem of coordination in the theory of the firm. Such an approach was widely adopted in the 1980s. But these days, resources/capabilities approach and evolutionary economics dominate the discourse on the firm. Capabilities, resources, dynamic capabilities, organizational learning, routine, tacit knowledge, knowledge creation, those are buzzwords to date. If you are to be specialized in the theory of the firm, this book should be read. But if not, I recommend Besanko, Dranove, and Shanleys Economics of Strategy. It takes trendy approach and that, it explains each subject with live examples from business world.	2002-06-24
US	49955484	R2X57GHW2SAIR9	1557868743	797860651	The Power of Identity (The Information Age: Economy, Society and Culture, Volume II)	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Globalized public sphere	This is the second volume of 'Information Age'. This volume deals with how the social movement has changed through internet and globalization. <BR>The public sphere is where social movement projects itself. The internet has had great impact on the public sphere with its global reach. We's witnessed that kind of potential on the some handful of anti-globalization protest in recent years.<BR>But what has changed is not only the way of protest. According to Touraine's typology, a social movement is defined by three principles: the movement's identity; its adversary; its vision or social model. Globalization transformed the identity of social movement. Zapatistas and recent environmental movements are the graphic examples. Now adversary is not confined to local government, but the government representing the interests of global agencies like TNCs. They oppose their specific identity and the well-being of society against the global adversary. The impact of these movements comes from their media presence and from their effective use of IT. Castells argues that the ability or inability of the state to cope with these challenges will largely condition the future of society in the 21st century.	2002-06-12
US	49955484	RADFWRHAZ3JEA	0631221409	151359233	The Rise of the Network Society (The Information Age: Economy, Society and Culture, Volume 1) (Vol 1)	Books	4	10	16	N	N	Network society: Informationalization and globalization	This is the first volume of Manuel Castells Informational Age. The trilogy of Informational Age is the de facto classic in the sociology of information. This volume focuses mainly on the economic feature of the network society: informationalization and globalization; the transformation of the enterprise; the flexibility in labor market; interactive media; transformation of space (or, in Giddens term, time-space distanciation). <BR>You might ask whats the relevance to sociology? Naturally, its related to question, whats the substance of sociology of information? Our day to day life cant clearly be distinguished from the economic affairs. Almost all the resources, whether they are material or human, appear as commodity or service which are tradable. Even the culture is organized on the market. Our identity and daily time table are deeply molded by our spot in the labor market. And that, the overall dynamics of social change comes from the economy. The epochal trends, such as globalization, informationalization, have been driven mainly by the economic needs. So the network society cant be grasped without the economics. But you should not conclude that the economics is the whole story. The market alone cant sustained even itself, not to say the whole society. The economy is embedded in the society. The economy and the society are intertwined with each other, but not determined by one another. So their relation could be called as the interaction. But when it comes to IT, the things are more complicated. IT cant act by in itself. IT is the resource to be mobilized by bodily actor. IT represents the epochal change in the environment. IT is not the variable in itself. Therefore we could say that the sociology of information is about the interaction between IT, economy and society. The argument of the field is like this: our activities are increasingly organized around networks. Networks have existed throughout the human history. But IToffers unprecedently elevated material basis. It allows the network pervasively to expand throughout the entire society and the globe. Over decades, we have observed sea change related to IT in economy, politics, and society. Those shifts are the object of the sociology of information. <BR>Castells trilogy is about that sea change. As I said above, the first volume focuses on economic features. But Castells work has some peculiar cast. Castells characterizing informational society as network society makes the globalization be coalesced with informationalization. For this reason, some commentators classify Castells as a theorist of globalization. In fact, this and the second volume of the trilogy could be read as great illustration of globalization. It seems that Castells assumes that informationalization could be distinguished from globalization only on the analytical rationale. So he characterizes informational age as the network society. The term could be applied to both trends. <BR>Before closing the review, I should warn you that if you expect the firm theoretical founding, you should read first Castells Information City, as I mentioned in the review of the authors another book, The Internet Galaxy. For example, Castells coined the term of the mode of development to periodize the informational age. Its not a new mode of production like the capitalism, but a new mode of development which is different from industrialism or Fordism. But anywhere is the trilogy, you cant find such a theorizing. Without that kind of founding, the trilogy cant avoid being read as interesting but bulky sketching out the current affairs.	2002-06-11
US	49955484	RHLYGY604C32G	0198293445	716821547	Globalization, Growth, and Governance: Creating an Innovative Economy	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Innovation, Competitiveness, and Growth	With the global competition ever more intensified, there has been a plethora of literature on innovation and technology. With no doubt, those interests focus on the competitiveness of the firm or national economy. This edited volume is no exception. But unlike other books, the point of emphasis is somewhat shifted to the left: what is the impact of global competition on the inequality between the North and the South; unemployment or job creation; uneven developed competitiveness among regions, in particular G3; the prospect of small and medium-sized enterprise. The overall thread of this book is much more akin to ones of development economics than those of other materials. <BR>This book is the one of the series: 'Unemployment in Europe' 'Managing the Global Economy' 'Creating Industrial Capacity: Towards Full Employment' 'Employment and Economic Performance' You can guess what would be the tone and interest of papers in this book from the name of other books in the series. Those are particularly concerned with how to restore full employment, particularly in Europe. Writers delve into how to make innovation more benign and less threatening to the job creation. But naturally, job creation is not attainable without flexibility and company dynamics especially on the face of globalization. So this volume focuses on how firms can be made more innovative to introduce new products and services, open up new markets and develop new industries. Most model cases are from the US and Japan. Vis-a-vis globalization, writers intend to draw policy recommendations to sustain prosperity by way of stimulating technological development. But when it comes to real actor to foster the development, the point is far from clear, and that, not that realistic. They seem to have Japanese developmental state in mind. But I'm not that positive to that kind of position as a student of Japanese economy and a Korean. <BR>Besides, each paper is not that bad. Thou those are hard to be said as innovative, well written and giving good vantage point on the subject. But overall quality of the book looks not that brilliant. I can't be sympathetic to the conclusion. To me, their appraisal of East Asia is not that appealing. And their position doesn't go beyond the context of EU area. <BR>If you have interest in the topic of innovation, competitiveness, and development, papers in this book are surely helpful. But if you are not oriented in those field, this book should be not your choice. If you want to be accustomed to the field of innovation, and to know what is the state of art discussion, read 'The Dynamic Firm'. If you want to be oriented to innovation and technology from the view of development, Ruttan's 'Technology, Growth, and Development' should be the pick. It's much more systematic and influential.	2002-06-07
US	49955484	R2JY4X19X29XCU	0199241538	2745796	The Internet Galaxy: Reflections on the Internet, Business, and Society (Clarendon Lectures in Management Studies)	Books	4	5	6	N	N	A good introductory literature	Manuel Castells is, with no doubt, the leading figure in the sociology of information. That field has been the fastest rising area in the sociology. It deals with the interaction between IT, the economy, and society. <BR>Manuel Castells secured his position with the book, The Information City (1989). This book grounded the theoretical framework. His three volumes of Information Age have been widely used as the textbook in the class. Those volumes have the rich depth and are well written, conclusive on each issue. But that trilogy is voluminous: about 1500 pages in total. If you prefer short but graphic, succinct introduction to the sociology of information, this is your pick. This book is based on the authors lecture held at Oxford Business School. So its not conceived to be the systematic work but intended to orient the reader toward the basics of the field. He uses various live cases to illustrate the interaction between Internet, the economy, and society. The areas covered range from culture, new economy, virtual community, social movement, privacy, multimedia, and digital divide. Those are almost all topics tackled in the field. But this is not intended to set up serious theoretical basis in the field. If you are interested in such an attempt, I recommend James Slevins The Internet and Society. But, as I mentioned in the review on that book, it requires the reader some basic understanding Giddens and other social theories, to get the nub of the book.	2002-06-05
US	49955484	R16VXOXM9QOQZG	0824822307	726229660	Ending the Ldp Hegemony: Party Cooperation in Japan	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Too much micro	Year 1993 was the big surprise to the Japanese and marked the watershed in the Japanese postwar politics. It was the end of longstanding 55 system which ruled and patterned the political scene of postwar Japan since 1955. for the first time, the LDP (Liberal Democratic Party) was ousted from the power. With brief episode, the LDP returned to the power. But nobody thinks its the powerful hegemonic party of yesterday. This book is about how the LDP lost the power and what would like the Japanese politics after 1993. He concludes that the patterns of 1996 election will be maintained. There will be a flurry of coalitions, alliances, and mergers. Contrary to the intention of single-seat district systems founders, if the electoral system wont guarantee the competing double party system. Electoral and party cooperation has prevailed over postwar Japanese politics. Those are the key to sustain multi-party system. Thru electoral and party cooperation, wasted votes could be minimized and support base of each party could be traded. <BR>It seems persuasive and realistic. But the problem lies in the style of explanation: too much micro. The typical case is like this: when the LDP has a bare majority, or when the LDP is facing an election in which it could likely lose its majority, talk of coalitions, defections, and party reformulations is common. When the LDP is ascendant and strong, such plans are shelved, and opposition parties concentrate on building their own bases or on cooperating electorally to reduce the LDP majority. <BR>Sure, such an account has the explanatory power. The writer proves that his case is valid against the postwar political history. He story-tells the postwar electoral and party cooperation. His picture seems persuasive. I cant find much glitches in his inferences. But those share the defects of micro-logics like game theory. Such logics could explain why the actor choose which option. But could not do so with why there are options before the actor at all. Reasoning of the writer is no exception.	2002-06-01
US	49955484	RXC88JI529A0M	067400874X	868774942	Sustaining the New Economy: Work, Family, and Community in the Information Age	Books	5	2	2	N	N	How to reproduce human and social capital in the new economy	Martin Carnoy did a great job to organize his own field works and general trends into a seamless fabric. The broad features of new economy is captured by a deft hand with timely insertion of lively facts. Whenever I meet materials on this kind of subject, I cannot but be assured that social sciences are not science but a derivative of literature. They tend to be super-optimistic or ultra-pessimistic. But equipped with well founded conception, Carnoy takes a realistic stance. He shows what should be called social sciences<BR>The author raises the question: How to sustain current economic expansion? On the face of cut-throat global competition, the workplace could not but be transformed to attain flexibility. With it, firms compete in the new environment. But flexibility indicates disaggregating workers from the social institutions that reproduce human capital and social capital. The author calls for public intervention to establish reintegrating institutions for two reasons:<BR>1. Traditional nuclear family and local community have been stressed with mounting pressures from labor market. Those institutions have been the very place where human capital and social capital are reproduced. Human capital and social capital are indispensable to sustain the economic growth. New economy is more vulnerable to such undermining the very infra, society, where the economy is embedded. <BR>2. What is the most distinct in the new economy is knowledge. Knowledge, or human capital, should be reproduced. Now its relegated to the individuals hand. This has devastating effects on social integration. Without some measures, the access to knowledge, skills, and information divide workforce into the dual labor market where winner and loser reproduce themselves for good.	2002-05-30
US	49955484	R2O3F0AHG68N9O	0415116880	281431827	Anthony Giddens: Critical Assessments (Critical Assessments of Leading Sociologists)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	a collection of outstanding articles on Anthony Giddens	This is a collection of outstanding articles on Anthony Giddens. Like other collections of this kind, large proportion of the articles is reprinting of already published ones on a variety of journals. But some are taken from several books and some unpublished materials are included. All amount to hefty number of 93. <BR>With those materials, you could grasp how Giddens is evaluated and assessed in circle of his colleague. If you want to be oriented to Giddens framework, this is not the right one. But if you want to build your own opinion about Giddens, this is definitely ready to lend a hand. Various writers attempt to dissect Giddens grand fabric to hit upon the weakness and develop alternatives. <BR>This book is divided into eight sections: <BR>1. Career and work<BR>2. Influence of other writers like French structuralists and German hermeneutic school<BR>3. Giddens epistemology in the view of philosophy of science.<BR>4. Structuration theory<BR>5. Time-space in structuration theory<BR>6. Theory on nation-state<BR>7. theory on modernity<BR>8. extensions and application of structuration theory	2002-05-14
US	49955484	R2Y77092J4VNVS	0415116880	281431827	Anthony Giddens: Critical Assessments (Critical Assessments of Leading Sociologists)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	a collection of outstanding articles on Anthony Giddens.	This is a collection of outstanding articles on Anthony Giddens. Like other collections of this kind, large proportion of the articles is reprinting of already published ones on a variety of journals. But some are taken from several books and some unpublished materials are included. All amount to a hefty number of 93. <BR>With those materials, you could grasp how Giddens is evaluated and assessed in circle of his colleague. If you want to be oriented to Giddens¡¯ framework, this is not the right one. But if you want to build your own opinion about Giddens, this is definitely ready to lend a hand. Various writers attempt to dissect Giddens¡¯ grand fabric to hit upon the weakness and develop alternatives. <BR>This set as a whole is divided into eight sections: <BR>1. Career and work<BR>2. Influence of other writers like French structuralists and German hermeneutic school<BR>3. Giddens¡¯ epistemology in the view of philosophy of science.<BR>4. Structuration theory<BR>5. Time-space in structuration theory<BR>6. Theory on nation-state<BR>7. theory on modernity<BR>8. extensions and application of structuration theory	2002-05-05
US	49955484	R3T10KG36C1E8G	0415116899	882967419	001: Anthony Giddens: Critical Assesments	Books	5	0	0	N	N	a collection of outstanding articles on Anthony Giddens	This is a collection of outstanding articles on Anthony Giddens. Like other collections of this kind, large proportion of the articles is reprinting of already published ones on a variety of journals. But some are taken from several books and some unpublished materials are included. All amount to a hefty number of 93. <BR>With those materials, you could grasp how Giddens is evaluated and assessed in circle of his colleague. If you want to be oriented to Giddens framework, this is not the right one. But if you want to build your own opinion about Giddens, this is definitely ready to lend a hand. Various writers attempt to dissect Giddens grand fabric to hit upon the weakness and develop alternatives. <BR>This book is divided into eight sections: <BR>1. Career and work<BR>2. Influence of other writers like French structuralists and German hermeneutic school<BR>3. Giddens epistemology in the view of philosophy of science.<BR>4. Structuration theory<BR>5. Time-space in structuration theory<BR>6. Theory on nation-state<BR>7. theory on modernity<BR>8. extensions and application of structuration theory	2002-05-05
US	49955484	RUBCLG2QINZI8	0415116902	700154147	002: Anthony Giddens: Critical Assessments	Books	5	0	0	N	N	a collection of outstanding articles on Anthony Giddens	This is a collection of outstanding articles on Anthony Giddens. Like other collections of this kind, large proportion of the articles is reprinting of already published ones on a variety of journals. But some are taken from several books and some unpublished materials are included. All amount to a hefty number of 93. <BR>With those materials, you could grasp how Giddens is evaluated and assessed in circle of his colleague. If you want to be oriented to Giddens framework, this is not the right one. But if you want to build your own opinion about Giddens, this is definitely ready to lend a hand. Various writers attempt to dissect Giddens grand fabric to hit upon the weakness and develop alternatives. <BR>This book is divided into eight sections: <BR>1. Career and work<BR>2. Influence of other writers like French structuralists and German hermeneutic school<BR>3. Giddens epistemology in the view of philosophy of science.<BR>4. Structuration theory<BR>5. Time-space in structuration theory<BR>6. Theory on nation-state<BR>7. theory on modernity<BR>8. extensions and application of structuration theory	2002-05-05
US	49955484	R22G552QZ4R7O6	0804714819	540145538	2: Political Economy of Japan the Changing International Context (The Political Economy of Japan)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	not bad but so so	The postwar Japanese political economy can't be grasped unless its put against the international context: the postwar politics of 55 system doesnt make sense, with ignoring the factor of the cold war; the rapid growth of 50s to 60s might have been not viable, if the US had not rebuilt Japan as the bulwark in Far Eastern Asia; the bubble economy of late 80s was ignited by Plaza Accord the US touted. In this regard, this volume places Japan in the international context whereas the 1st volume of the series focuses on domestic settings. The coverage of the book is like this: <BR>Part I: Covering the world system of the late 20th century and the position of Japan <BR>Part II: dealing with Japans trade policy, comparative advantage, and financial internationalization in 80s.<BR>Part III: about domestic context of foreign and trade policy<BR>Part IV: tackling the role of Japan in the world<BR>I have to point 2 weakness of this volume: <BR>1. the overall quality of articles is not as good as that of vol.1. the 1st volume of this series is the classic in this field. But they havent counted this volume as such. <BR>2. just like the vol.1, this volume is also filled with the positivism of 80s which is outdated with no doubt. It makes the points of the book less persuasive.	2002-04-28
US	49955484	R1ZU3E01TMI0Y6	0804713812	483822282	1: The Political Economy of Japan	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Old but not outdated	This book is the first of 3 volumes. Together with the other 2 volumes. This series is the constellation of researches on Japanese political economy upto '80s. Volume 1 deals with various topics on Japanese economy in the domestic context, ranging from financial market, pulic finance, welfare policy, corporate governance, labor market, SMEs, industrial policy, patterned pluralism and so on. Naturally, the series doesn't account for the events of '90s and is imbued with the optimism of '80s on the prospect of Japan, So you could see it outdated. But judging from the scope and depth of the book, it's hardly obsolete and serves as starting point to argue what's changed since '80s. If you study the Japanese economy, this book should be kept on your book shelf. Sure. You wouldn't read through all the pages. It's too bulky. But when you write your own paper, you can't help refer to this series, especially volume 1.	2002-04-23
US	49955484	R1QOFYKMZ0W6CH	0801496969	402869411	Uncommon Democracies: The One-Party Dominant Regimes	Books	4	0	2	N	N	explaining few and exceptional democracies	Cases of perpetual one-party dominance among democracies in the industrialized societies are few and exceptional. So we could identify such polities as uncommon democracies. The aim of this volume is to probe the condition of such long-term dominances in the cases of Japan, Sweden, Italy, and Israel in the manner of comparative politics. Authors dissect the socioeconomic coalition, the electoral strategy, polity package, and organizational features of each dominant party, in other words, explanations are centered around the dominant party. Those variables and methodology are common to political scientists. But, personally, I spotted the prototype of Pempels conception of regime in this volume, which was fully developed in his recent title on Japan, Regime Shift. In that title, Pempel, the editor of this book, reorganizes oft-adopted, but vague, word, regime in systematic way. The regime is, he suggests,  the three-dimensional concept: the socioeconomic coalition, policy profile, and political economic institutions. A successful regime is formed on the rock of socioeconomic coalition. This coalition set the policy profile of the regime which political economic institutions carry on. The overall points of this book become much more clear with Pempels conception. But Pempels Regime Shift cant replace this book. The former is exclusively devoted to the postwar Japan. So this book could provide the good comparative standpoint to readers.	2002-04-14
US	49955484	R3QJGB35ORQ9CV	0801423678	402869411	Uncommon Democracies: The One Party Dominant Regimes	Books	4	0	1	N	N	explaining few and exceptional democracies	Cases of perpetual one-party dominance among democracies in the industrialized societies are few and exceptional. So we could identify such polities as uncommon democracies. The aim of this volume is to probe the condition of such long-term dominances in the cases of Japan, Sweden, Italy, and Israel in the manner of comparative politics. Authors dissect the socioeconomic coalition, the electoral strategy, polity package, and organizational features of each dominant party, in other words, explanations are centered around the dominant party. Those variables and methodology are common to political scientists. But, personally, I spotted the prototype of Pempels conception of regime in this volume, which was fully developed in his recent title on Japan, Regime Shift. In that title, Pempel, the editor of this book, reorganizes oft-adopted, but vague, word, regime in systematic way. The regime is, he suggests,  the three-dimensional concept: the socioeconomic coalition, policy profile, and political economic institutions. A successful regime is formed on the rock of socioeconomic coalition. This coalition set the policy profile of the regime which political economic institutions carry on. The overall points of this book become much more clear with Pempels conception. But Pempels Regime Shift cant replace this book. The former is exclusively devoted to the postwar Japan. So this book could provide the good comparative standpoint to readers.	2002-04-14
US	49955484	R1QUGGSFSDOG70	0333665198	914615976	The Japanese Economy Reconsidered	Books	4	0	2	N	N	The lost decade as the extension of the 3rd Great Depression	The beauty of the book lies in its long-term view on Japanese economy since the 1st oil shock to the lost decade of Japan (90s), in terms of fancy words like globalization, IT, and neoliberalism. Those words are not frequently utilized to explain Japanese economy. The explanatory concept of the book is globalization. In this regard, this book could be read not only as another count to Japanese researches already mounting to the sky, but also as a case study on globalization in the light of Japanese economy. The authors view on the globalization is of the same kind to the race to the bottom school. Though, personally, I havent seen much good point in such views, the basic image the author sketches out is succinct and persuasive, for she (the author) poses the picture against the global trend since 70s. she begins with simple sketch of Fordism before the 1st oil shock and then proceeds to great depression of 70s. She characterizes the world economy since 70s as the 3rd great depression (the 1st, 1870s-1890s; the 2nd, 1929). The features of globalization derived from the founding dynamics of great depression: cut-throat competition in worldwide market economy. IT has been the weapon to compete the market. The zeitgeist of this new era is the neoliberalism. <BR>Against this global backdrop, she illustrates the changes in labor market, social institutions like family, expanding service industry, industrial hollowing-out and the forth. She insists that these global trends pose the question to Japanese economy.<BR>Her explanation of the bubble burst is graphic and superb than any other materials that Ive read. She focused on micro (not only macro) mechanism which swollen the bubble, she links persuasively the process to the previous decades. But she suggests that the fundamental problems of Japanese economy to date is not merely deflation or liquidity trap but the one that globalization poses	2002-04-08
US	49955484	R5TMP8O5QR1XD	0877222509	155055267	Policy & Politics Japan (Policy & Politics In Industria)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Outdated but worth reading	You might click away to other link when you check the year of publication, 1981 (actually 1982). Yep. This book couldnt include later developments in Japanese researches and real life events. But I dont think this limitation shatters down the whole value of the book. I thought in that way when I should read this book for a graduate class. But when I opened then book, my presumption proved wrong. <BR>This book overviews in skillful manner the issues raised on the public sphere of postwar Japan upto 70s, ranging from economic policy, labor-management relations, social welfare, higher education, environmental protection, to administrative reform. I think the accounts of Pempel in this book still are valid. There is not much titles which effectively overview postwar Japan as a whole. Each chapter is structured into 4 sections:<BR>Context: this section offers the reader a historical standpoint from prewar period to understand the overall trend of each issue. <BR>Agenda: this section deals with real issues raised in the public sphere.<BR>Process: this section sketches out what was the political process to tackle the issues.<BR>Consequences:<BR>These 4 sections provide the clear picture of each area of agenda in the cumulative spiral way. But the real beauty is the part of Readings in each chapter. This part contains the document from real actors from LDP, JSP, labor unions, government agencies, and economic federations like Keidanren. Readings part occupies almost half of each chapter. I havent seen any books on Japan structured in this way.	2002-04-01
US	49955484	RANRHRL6N09M0	0745620876	993017889	The Internet and Society	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A persuasive theoretical attempt to grasp of cyberspace	If you look for a empirical and graphic illustration of cyberspace, this is not your choice. This book is intended to contribute to theoretical founding of cyberspace. So most pages are devoted to reviewing and elaborating various existing theories, researches. That is, this is a meta-theorizing. His founding theoretical orientation is not fashionable postmodernist but Giddens¡¯s theory of structuration, particularly the knowledgability of actor, and modernity. The author manages to bring about a persuasive extension of Giddens¡¯s approach to cyberspace. He argues there is no reason to see that online community is not that different from offline day-to-day life from totally discrepant angle as postmodernists claim. Online community also assumes the development of the integrity, trust and shared stock of knowledge. What is needed to assess the experience of this brave new world is the proper theory of media and modernity. <BR>The overall outline of the book is like this:<BR>Ch.1: dealing with the nature of ¡®risk society¡¯ depending on Giddens and Habermas.<BR>Ch.2: illustrating the technological and institutional features of internet.<BR>Ch.3: theoretical founding of internet as media based on Thompson¡¯s conception.<BR>Ch.4: arguing that the virtual community is not that far cry from actual (offline) community. So we can cope with it based on existing framework.<BR>Ch.5 arguing that mobilizing IT into organizations like the enterprise, i.e., restructuring, should be reconsidered in the light that IT changes the settings of interaction for IT is a form of media. This chapter tackles the cases of government and NGO¡¯s IT adoption too. <BR>Ch.6: focusing on how the internet enriches and transforms the nature of the self and experience in everyday life. His position is like this: ¡®the self is not being transformed by forces that operate exclusively behind the backs of individuals¡¯.<BR>Below are comments I posted on the bulletin board of a graduate class. Most are complaints. Yep. It¡¯s not fair to the author. But the reader I presumed are those who already read the text. So there was not much reason to recapping the text and writing down praises. And some are not that relevant to the book directly. But I think it would be helpful to get what is like the real line of the book. <br />1. (On Ch.1) This introductory chapter on founding concepts borrowed from Giddens and Beck, in the tint of Frankfurt¡¯s conception of life world, is much more graphic than Castells¡¯s. But the sketch of time-space distanciation or modernization, in the light of uncertainty and risk is not figurative. And that, there is no definition of ¡®risk¡¯. Yep. Risk is well known concept and widely used. But the writer mixes it with life world in the sense of Frankfurt¡¯s. he should have suggest the definition of those concepts to place in the context. And worse, he omits various ancillary concepts like danger vs. security, disembedding vs. reembedding, ontological security and so forth. Yep. Recapping whole line of ¡®The Consequences of Modernity¡¯ is not reasonable. But such a skipping causes confusion.  <BR>2. (On Ch.3) I can¡¯t understand why the author uses the ambiguous concept of culture, while he devoted a few pages to theoretical problems of that concept. He doesn¡¯t substantiates the intangible word at all. I¡¯m not sure what would be his object in this chapter. Frankly, I couldn't distinguish Geertz¡¯s conception from functionalist¡¯s. For that reason, Giddens expelled that word from his theorizing. I couldn't see any benefit to use that word. Culture is no more than a conceptual umbrella, at least in sociology, which unjustifiably conflate seemingly compatible phenomena, though actually discrepant in practical research. Its notoriety doesn¡¯t fall short of one of ¡®society¡¯. For this reason, Giddens restrains himself from the temptation to sue that word, rather confined it only to ¡®the locale of interaction¡¯. Thompson¡¯s analytic framework of ¡®cultural transmission¡¯ is awesome. In my opinion, his framework is wholly compatible to Giddens¡¯s. For Giddens himself doesn¡¯t offer sufficient theorizing on media or technology, his framework could complement the shortfall. But I don¡¯t think Giddens¡¯s stratification model, especially power, could go hand in hand with culture. Instead, why not replace ¡®modality of cultural transmission¡¯ with ¡®media¡¯ ? I suspect author¡¯s use of ¡®culture¡¯ is no more than the inflation of concept. <BR>Besides the conceptual glitch, the intention of ch.3 seems successful: to link the internet to publicness or public sphere. It has been discussed for long. But the author¡¯s attempt to theoretically found it has a point in sketching out the field. <BR>3. (On Ch.4) On the first section of ch.4, I wonder why the author simply ignore the very condition of those various citations he bombarded. Didn¡¯t he fail to be reminded that it could cause confusion? I won¡¯t say he should have reproduced the emptiness of postmodernists, but he should have sensitized, at least, and articulated what is his opponent. It¡¯s the way of discussion. Yep. He illustrates their position in ch.6. but ch.6 is not ch.4. <BR>4. (OnCh.4) the author follows the line of Giddens to attack the babbles of postmodernists. As well known, postmodernists take the stance of poststructuralists in the conception of the self. It has some points in the sphere of philosophy. But it¡¯s hard to be so in sociology.  As Giddens puts it, the agency should be conceived as knowledgable actor. This is the point of late Wittgenstein too. In this vein, the babble of postmodernist should be rejected. In this regard, author¡¯s sketching out of IRC, in the fashion of Goffman, is much more persuasive than empty discussion of postmodernists.	2002-04-01
US	49955484	R2W0U6OZZIXP03	0877222509	155055267	Policy & Politics Japan (Policy & Politics In Industria)	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Outdated but worth reading	You might click away to other link when you check the year of publication, 1981 (actually 1982). Yep. This book couldnt include later developments in Japanese researches and real life events. But I dont think this limitation shatters down the whole value of the book. I thought in that way when I should read this book for a graduate class. But when I opened then book, my presumption proved wrong. <BR>This book overviews in skillful manner the issues raised on the public sphere of postwar Japan upto 70s, ranging from economic policy, labor-management relations, social welfare, higher education, environmental protection, to administrative reform. I think the accounts of Pempel in this book still are valid. There is not much titles which effectively overview postwar Japan as a whole. Each chapter is structured into 4 sections:<BR>Context: this section offers the reader a historical standpoint from prewar period to understand the overall trend of each issue. <BR>Agenda: this section deals with real issues raised in the public sphere.<BR>Process: this section sketches out what was the political process to tackle the issues.<BR>Consequences:<BR>These 4 sections provide the clear picture of each area of agenda in the cumulative spiral way. But the real beauty is the part of Readings in each chapter. This part contains the document from real actors from LDP, JSP, labor unions, government agencies, and economic federations like Keidanren. Readings part occupies almost half of each chapter. I havent seen any books on Japan structured in this way.	2002-03-26
US	49955484	R1ZI6TD2HK62LQ	0804718911	529848341	The Consequences of Modernity	Books	5	7	12	N	N	The persuasive micro-foundation of modernity	The persuasive framework to grasp modernity<br />This is the most popular title among Giddens¡¯s books. There are several reasons for the attractiveness. <BR>1. It was the lecture held in Stanford. So the writing style is easy enough to grip the whole line. It¡¯s hard to say his earlier theoretical books like ¡®Central Problems of Social Theory¡¯, ¡®The Constitution of Society¡¯ are easy to read through, though it¡¯s the nature of theoretical works of sociology, unfortunately.<BR>2. Timing: This book was published in 1990 when the chats of postmodernism or postmodernity waned for its unproductivity, while the discussion of globalization was about to wax. Giddens¡¯s countering of postmodernity and theoretical founding of globalization is so persuasive. The framing of modernity in terms of ¡®time-space distanciation which surfaced first in this book, still dominates the talk of globalization.<BR>3. He founded the seemingly macro-matter of globalization on the micro-level with the concept of trust. A set of ancillary concepts are accompanied to support this foundation like ontological security, risk, reflexivity, and abstract system. His linking between micro- and macro-level seems so convincing.<BR>The overall outline of his framework in this book based on the concept of trust. Trust came from Erickson. So it has the psychological connotation. It¡¯s not hard to capture the gist. But I prefer more friendly version to social sciences. Let¡¯s consider it with the concept of ¡®expectation¡¯. We impose some expectation on every object we encounter; mother, friend, colleague, mug, pen, computer. We expect what my friend would talk or behave before his action or what this mug would like before buying it. What we expect for something is called the expectation. In other word, we assign the identity to those object. Object is everything we can allot name. My self-identity is no exception. Myself is also object which should have some expectation. Everything including myself on the time-space has identity. Trust is the name given to this process. Let¡¯s suppose the nature of time-space changed (time-space distanciation). Then our trust should change accordingly. This is the nub of Giddens¡¯s micro-foundation of modernity in this book.	2002-03-23
US	49955484	R229VLL6RJ1YYJ	0231062117	229059487	Twenty Lectures	Books	4	6	7	N	N	A good introduction but not comprehensive	This book is a textbook for the class on the contemporary sociological theories, as the subtitle suggests. Jeffrey Alexander is one of the well-known figures in that field. So we could expect some readable and plain presentation of past theories. And so it is. This book has some advantages over other textbooks:<BR>1. For example, His reproduction of Parsons is vivid. Most accounts of Parsons have been skewd toward somewhat negative criticism. But in such a way, I don't think we could get anything from him. Alexander sketch out his theory with lively examples and the behind-motive of Parsons. We could figure out a theorist or theory when we grasp the problem which he or she attempts to solve. Alxander manages to elucidate theorists in that way.<BR>2. The contemporary theories of sociology gained the impetus with Parsons. So most textbooks open the first chapter with him. But they are weak at clearingly cutting out what has driven subsequent theoretical development of various competiting schools like conflict theory, excahnge theory, ethnomethodology and the like, to rebel against Parsons. But this book has the strong point in that matter.<BR>But I have to pinpoint some disadvantages:<BR>1. The author devoted almost a third to Parsons. Yep. to capture the trend since '60s in that field, there should be some good grasp of the starting point, Parsons. But subsequnet schools have not much coverage in this book; mear 2 chapters for each school. I think it's for the theoretical orientation of the author: neo-functionalism. But who read Parsons these days? <BR>2. He covers only upto '70s. But now, most classes deal with much more recent theorists like Giddens, Bouridieu, Foucault, Luhman, Rand Collins and the like, and they have much more influence. But the author simply ignored them.	2002-03-13
US	49955484	R2CG7N59I0AKP2	1565842790	882547257	Japan in War and Peace: Selected Essays	Books	4	2	3	N	N	A collection of papers on Japan before and after WWII	John Dower is the outstanding figure in the field of cold war, especially in Japan. His Pulitzer awarded book, 'Embracing Defeat', could be regarded as the cream of his career. If you read it already, you don't need to pick up this, I think. This book is no more than a collection of essays. So you chould not expect any integrity among papers. You'd better select essay to your needs. Sure, the quality of essays is not bad.	2002-03-13
US	49955484	RR2W455R2HMIK	0520074750	922665511	Postwar Japan as History	Books	4	6	8	N	N	A good overview of Postwar Japan upto 80s	I read this book in a graduate class. So I didn't touch all bits of it. But judging from what I read, this book worths your time, I think.<BR>1. Writers are well-known figures in their own field. So, unlike other edited materials, the quality of each article is superb.<BR>2. As the title implies, this book was intended to provide the viewpoint to overview postwar Japan as an entity, upto 80s.<BR>3. The subjects, covered in this fat book (500 pages), vary from economy, mass culture, urban lifestyle to political practice. If you expect some in-depth specilized material, this is not your choice. But if you want to get some starting point, this is yours.	2002-03-13
US	49955484	R2E4IWDQ8AFF1H	1869411994	244623578	Unfinished Business	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Reform: Public interest vs. vested interest	Roger Douglas was the finance minister of New Zealand Labor government in late 1980s. He envisioned famous deregulation process at that time. That policy frame was called as Rogernomics. It was comparable to Thatcher's reform. This book is not about that politics but the program on what should be done to New Zealand to prosper. To that end, the author propose various policies based on hard numbers. But those figures are not that interesting to foreigners. What seduce foreigners are his looking back on deregulation process in late 1980s which he initiated. He depicts clearly what is deregulaton of reform: reform is the process to achieve public interest against vested interest. New Zealand had and has suffered economic inefficiency from decades of government's overintervention into private sector under Labor Party ruling since 1940s. Most policieswhic had been put into effect under the name of welfare state, eventualy proved to be populist pork barrel politics. New Zealand economy has suffered from good politics but bad policies over decades. in effect populist politics could not be carried on with a few hundreds % of deficit. in 1980s every politicians admitted the need of reforming public sector. But it was not easy task at all. \\"I know the reform is needed. But constituencies don't want it\\"  What did Roger Douglas to his country is propose the vision in the face of constituencies. He insists that once you could ensure them with the vision, you could carry on reform against the jungle of vested interest. In this book, you can get the clear idea of what is reform and how it should be put into effect.	2002-03-02
US	49955484	R15ZXU9L75IEXA	0060919906	379961340	Our Kind: Who We Are, Where We Came From, Where We Are Going	Books	4	7	13	N	N	A succinct introduction to evolutionist anthropology	The merit of M. Harris lies in his succinctness which often has the risk of reductionism. For that reason, he has enjoyed popularity. But such a style wont get popular among scientist. For example, Since I read his book, 'Cows, Pigs, Wars & Witches : The Riddles of Culture', I haven't touched his books at all. His explanation of taboos of cow and pig in India and Moslem world is persuasive. But his explantion of popularity of Christianity in Rome empire has flavor of economic determinism. That kind of reductionism could seduce reader with the virtue of simplicity. <BR>But this volume avoid such reductionism. Yep. his explanation could be called technological determinism. But the flavor of reductionism is kept to minimum. His theoretical frame is the evolutionism of E. R. Service. the debate between evolutionism and diffusionism is decedes old one. But Service's version is recent one. His coinage of 'band', 'chiefdom' has had favor among social scientists. This book use that framework to explain various topics like 'Why our ancestors went to palins out of forest?', 'Why our ancestor gave up the economy of hunt-and-gathering?', 'Why there has been sexual discrimination?'. 'What brought the class and the state about?' <BR>Those questions can't help getting our attention, and his answers seem to succeed to offer adequate accounts.	2002-02-28
US	49955484	R3HX8148D5GXZ	0595204406	778432634	The Real World of the New Economy	Books	4	1	1	N	N	The real world in the institutional Keynesianism	This book is intended to be read by undergrate student and business people who want to get some orientation into alternative approach other than something taught in neoclassical class in the undergradate level. So the book is highly academic and the author did his best to make it easy to follow. As you know actual decision making in corporate world doesn't follow the premise of neoclassical school. In the real world, supply won't make its demand at all!. if so why overcapacity prevails over so many industries like auto? And worse, the basic function of price on every microeconomics textbooks won't inform what should be the actual level of price to executives in charge. the price doesn't be set in line with equilibrium of demand and supply. it's simply set by coporate. <BR>The author provides us what would be more realistic framework to understand the real world of economy. His main orientation is the Keynesian. He begins with posing quetion of noeclassical premise and go to reinterpretation of Keynes. on the contrary to the lay perceptions, Keynes's main point is not multiplier but future expectance. To countervail business cycle is to boost economic agents' future expectace. So we don't need to think Keynes championed big government at all. but the point of Keynes has been distorted by neoclassical school in the form of 'rational expectance'. Keynesian expectance is not rational. the nature of expectance is, by nature, 'uncertainty'. <BR>the 2nd point of the author lies in expanding 'effective demand'. he links 'effective demand' to 'endogenous money supply'. In this respect, he depicts the point of demand-side economics effectively. <BR>There are several other Post-Keynsian concepts with institutionalist depiction of real world. ...	2002-01-31
US	49955484	RPRZZ8S81E9Y5	0127859195	334693645	The Modern World-System I: Capitalist Agriculture and the Origins of the European World-Economy in the Sixteenth Century (Studies in Social Discontinuity)	Books	4	24	26	N	N	The manifesto of world system theory	This book is the manifesto of world system theory. and that it was awarded by American association of sociology. Previously, the capitalism begin with the 1st industrial revolution. but Wallerstein questioned this common sense. he asserted it should be dated back to 16th century when Italian city-state prospered with Mediterrean trade. The book begins with how the feudalism fell and capitalism emerged. Volume 1 covers the shift of hegemoney in European world system from Italian city-states, Spain to Holland. The gist of his theorizing is the worldwide division of labor. <BR>By the way, Overall points are easy to grasp. but the devils lies in the details. the book is flooded with bulks of long quotations. This distracts the attention of reader, so that lose the line of argument. Reading goes through between quotation to quotation. it even seems Wallerstein has no point of himself. I read twice to catch the logic of each chapter. but no avail. Dose Wallerstein has no ability to abbridge those quotations to his own word? <BR>If you are interested in world system theory, I recommend to read Braudel's 'Civilization and Capitalism' instead. it's easy to follow and more systematic. and that much fun to read. Below I try to compare Braudel with Wallerstein<BR>Power organizes the space. Organized space is the world where our perspective domiciles. There were always several worlds at the same time. For example, the premodern Chinese recognized other peoples than them. But they were outside their world. So they were barbarians who were much the same with beast. Only the one in the world which had meaning to them could be called human being. But now there is only one world on the globe. If we define it as the globalization, the history of capitalism is the process globalization over centuries since the 16th C. This is the grand image Braudel depicts before us in Civilization and Capitalism. If so, capitalism is not merely the system of exchange (or production), but the wayto organize the world, in other word, the system of power. With no doubt, capitalism is the system of capitals. But capital is the power to control the flow of resources. Capital, in Marxs word, is the power to control the resources allocation in society. But the resource entails not only physical material but also human labor. No goods can be presented before us without human labor. Then trade of goods must reflect the relation of spaces where human beings dwell, whether it is done with coercion or contract. Trade could be carried out between the urban and the regional. The world Wallerstein depicts is the magnified image into global scale of such an order. The unit in that order is the nation-state. but in Braudels image, The unit of space is not the state but the city. Capitalism is the network (or hierarchy) of cities, Braudel argues. Each has its own pros and cones. But these days Braudles image has gained popularity over Wallersteins, since Braudels point-to-point perspective fits better into the aspects of globalization. For instance, the global financial market could be better captured with Braudels. It exists on the network of cities like New York, London, and Tokyo, not on the hierarchy of nation-states. According to Braudel, the capital and the state have its own interest and dynamic different from each other. In Wallersteins framework, we cant spot such a distinction. But its the point where we should begin to explain the current affair, globalization.	2002-01-31
US	49955484	R3MNAGLPEEED7J	0691012695	941877689	Mimesis: The Representation of Reality in Western Literature	Books	5	21	48	N	N	Mimesis as form	Others reviewd this legendary book already. But I have a point to tell: Mimesis not as content but as form. Mimesis, the title of the book comes from latin word, reflection. Traditionary, mimesis is used to analyse the content of text. You can see that kind of approach in Arnold Hauser's 4 volumes of 'The Social History of Art' or Lukacs's aesthetic theory. But that kind of approach mainly inspired by Marxism went out of mode. Alternative approach is the one of Adorno's 'sociology of art'. Adorno's analysis of music is distinct. He insisted that we could detect the totality of society not in content but in the form of text. He himself is the composer and pupil of Schonberg. So he advocated Modernism in this light. At first glance, Modernism could not match to Marxism. But persausively, Adorno showed the opposite case. You can see that kind of approach in the textof Frederic Jameson's 'Marxism and Form'. <BR>Auerbach's approach should be captured in this line. He analysed various Western literary text in the light of form and the social structuer of that time. His point is that we could detect the social structure of that time or totality, in the term of Marxist tradition, not only in content but also in form, or in Auerbach's term, style.	2002-01-02
US	49955484	RPLP1RKO6KS1K	0226474844	196220162	The Savage Mind (The Nature of Human Society Series)	Books	5	16	30	N	N	The Manifesto of Structuralism	hmmmm..... I can't see why this book has got such humble and unskilled review till now. This book is the easiest material to understand the tenet of structuralism. Personally I don't like the disposition of structuralism at all and I suspect whether in 50 years, anybody remember that kind of school existed at all except writers of history of philosophy. <BR>Anyway, this book made structuralism floating on the vogue with its ease to understand and constructed the intellectual fashion of structuralsim which dominated the whether of discourse in human science in the 1960s and 1970s. Yep. now nobody read Levi-Strauss, even anthropolgists don't read his books. But if you  want to understand structuralism, post-structuralsim and postmodernism, you'd better begin with this book for it's the easiest and fun to read.	2002-01-02
US	49955484	R25NFJGJ6DKAI8	0674001877	692985465	The Sociology of Philosophies: A Global Theory of Intellectual Change	Books	5	12	13	N	N	What is like the life of scholar	The first review below focused on the theoretical position of this book. I'll put some complementary remarks on that review. <BR>1. Collins's theoretical approach is known as network theory in the field of sociological theories. it was derived from the exchange theory. its premise come from rational choice theorem of neoclassical economics. overall analyses of exchange theory and network are similar. But Collins's analysis in this book is a bit different. in network theory, the network is considered as resource or exogenous factor to the function of individual action. But Collins treats it as causal or determinant factor not simply environmental reference point. Theoretical position of scholar is determined by incumbent fractions of the field. Not only ones preference but currently unoccupied terrain determines ones  position in the attention space of scientific community. <BR>2. Collins demystifying the romantic perception of knowledge production: knowledge or  art is not the offshoot of genius but that of community. In this regard, Collins take the point of sociology of science not sociology of knowledge. The former perceives the knowledge as determined or affected by external factor of network, while the latter does by class or socioeconomic interest. They seems not that different. But quite different actually. The latter take the content of knowledge or artwork as dependent variable against the independent variable ie, the broad framework of class interest. Its the basic position of traditional Marxist. But Sociology of science narrows the scope of independent variable down to community of scholars. And the works of scholar is seen as commodity in the marketplace. Here the reward is not money but the fame.	2001-12-31
US	49955484	R34T7YOS9TX4X2	0691013160	848018417	The Prison-House of Language: A Critical Account of Structuralism and Russian Formalism	Books	5	28	40	N	N	The best and succinct introduction to structuralism and form	I'm surprised with the fact that nobody wrote the review on this book.<BR>As far as I've read on structuralism, this is the best, easy, succinct overview of structuralism. yep. the part 2 of this book is on the formalism. but my major is not literature. so I have no sufficient knowledge to assess the quality of that part. but as far as I 've read Jameson's books, it won't be the second to none. It's amazing how he could manage to write in such short volume to be understandable to layman. Jamesons's theoretical position is not that sympathetic to the tenet of structuralism. his orientation is Marxist. His assessment of structuralism betrays the title, 'The prison-house of langauge.  his point is not that simple or vulgar as Terry Eagleton's.  Jameson tried to syntehsize the point of Marxism's political approach, hermeneutics, and formalist approach of structuralism in his master piece, 'Political Unconsciuousness'. and his evaluation of structuralism does not lose intellectual fairness.	2001-12-28
US	49955484	R1PFV16JUWXVR1	0801485290	382948264	Regime Shift: Comparative Dynamics of the Japanese Political Economy (Cornell Studies in Political Economy)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A freamework to understand Japan in comprehensive way.	since the 1982, the developmental state, articulated by Chalmers Johson in his infulential book 'MITI', has been the standard approach in the field of North East Asian studies at least in the circle of political economy. but  the model of developmental state does not fit into the phenomenon since the 1980s, in SOuth Korea, and the 1973, in Japan. the bureacrats is not that autonoumous like the past, i.e. the rapid growth period, the ruling party proned to be the masters of fork barrel politics, and constituents were not that concensual like the past. there must be some 'shift'. Pempel's work is the attempt to provide a comprehensive framework to explain the shift in systematic and succinct way. his framework is based on the concept of 'regime' which is common in the field of comparative politics. I think he succeeded in that point.<BR>but the concept of regime has some limitation: for example, it can't expalin why keiretsu or main bank system developed and why it has been disolved since 1980s. sure I know it was not Pempel's intention to include them. but to understand Japan or Korea, we should include big businesses. without them, explanation can't be comprehensive. it's the point of political economy, I think.	2001-12-28
US	49955484	R17IV5MMXAZ7S7	081571291X	894281872	Is Japan Really Changing Its Ways?: Regulatory Reform and the Japanese Economy	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Basic text on Regulatory reform in Japan	The 1990s of Japan is labled as the lost decade. if one faces the impediment, he should try to overcome it. Jpanaese government has tried various measures from deficit budget, which amounts ro over 110% of GDP now, to regulatroy reform or deregulation. regulatory reform has been around the world since late 1970s. Japanese one seems not that different from others. But it's been implemented in peacemeal. this book is intended to explain the reason. there are numorous books on Japanese regulatory reform in the 1990s. but as far as I know this is one of two book available in English on the market. the other was also published by Brooking Institute. but they are different in the scope and targets. this book aimed at explaining regulatory reform process in Japan in somewhat broad political context, while 'Unlocking Bureacrats Kingdom' copncentrated on case by case approach. authors of this book counclude that the reform efforts has faced rigidity of existing political interest groups consisting of bureaucrats, zoku politicians, and clients of regulators. so the lagging performance of regulatory reform is notning suprising. <BR>Though I agree with the conclusion, they neglect the reason why once capable bureacrats play evil role and the economic conditions since the 1970s which have drived the rigid political system to accept, at least in dis guise, the reform. and the focus of regulatory reform has laid in distribution, transport, and financial sector. but there is no detailed explanation of them. in this regard, if u are interested in regulatory reform in Japan, I recommend  OECD Report on Regulatory Reform, Japan, and Money Rules (from Cornell).	2001-12-28
US	49955484	R373DVUCYHVLO5	0521643767	285963615	Globalization and Progressive Economic Policy	Books	4	1	3	N	N	Interesting but not systemetic	I read this book in a graduate class on globalization. The word progressive in the title  refers to the perspective of political economy ie, not the one of neoclassical or neo-liberalist. Arguments from economists, in particular political economists on globalization are somewhat hard to see. Authors focused on side effects of globalization. Their perspectives vary but they can be labeled as the view of race to the bottom against optimistic views of neo-liberalist. Its interesting to see what should be done against hard economic trend, globalization from the perspective of losers not winners. And this book has wide coverage from IMF, World Bank to TNCs, Global financial market, inequality. But I should point out some weakness of the book.<BR>1. They doesnt offer any explanation on what caused the globalization at all. Globalization is presented as mere background to draw their conclusions. Some Marxist schools explained the process of globalization in terms of the diminishing rate of profit. But this book lacks such logics. I think the purpose of this book, offering alternative policy to speed down the process of globalization, drove authors in that direction. <BR>2. My major is not economics but economic sociology. So I had some difficulties to follow all lines of the economists. But its not wholly my fault. I have had no such difficulty with economic journals like The Economist. The explanation of economic phenomena which are mainly macroeconomic one, is not kind to reader. I think authors assumed that this book would be read by expert policy makers not by mundane students.	2001-10-26
US	49955484	RYJBA43F5UI0W	0312036523	535758261	Research Methods in the Social Sciences	Books	5	12	13	N	N	systematic	I used this book for methodology class, thou the official textbook was the more common book of Bailey. I did so for several reasons.<BR>1. incidentally I had not Bailey's but this book because I used this book to prepare graduate entrance exam.<BR>2. as u know, there are not much differences among textbooks on research methods for this field might be the only area in consensus on social sciences.<BR>This book has some weak points just like other textbooks including Bailey's. this book concentrates on quantitative methods and not much deal with qualitative methods which occupy mere 20 pages. <BR>But I have to mention 2 strong points <BR>1. The author presents concepts in graphic way with vivid details of research examples and illustrating live logic of field. Thou good researcher could be only with practices, it will be good to have some touch of real logic of concept in real field<BR>2. the author put the system over various methods like observation, survey, interview etc with the logic of causation. This is why this book begins research design part with experiment which is rarely used in social sciences except psychology. Experiment is not practical one in social sciences but it's the model of all other research methods for its design meets all the condition of causation. So when we design out research, we should bear the experiment in mind. This point is maintained throughout the book. And this made the content of the book systematic	2001-10-05
US	49955484	R2TRZ6U52H8X0T	0226041085	592565459	Writing for Social Scientists: How to Start and Finish Your Thesis, Book, or Article (Chicago Guides to Writing, Editing, and Publishing)	Books	5	5	13	N	N	what is like living as scholar	Several others reviewed this book already. but I want to mention a point on this book. You could peep into what is the life of scholar throughout reading this book. this book is not merely writing guide. there are many other books on writing. but the place where this book should be put is not there, I think. the author, he himself has some name in Sociology, show you what is the life of scholar by the topic of writing. he persuasively illustrate the fear to write of not only graduate students but also professional scholars. I recommend to read Randall Collins The Sociology of Philosophies, if you want to peep into more details on the life of scholar. I think Collinss book is better, volumetric and systematic on that matter. But the merit of this book is that you can capture what is like living as scholar in more private sight.	2001-10-05
US	49955484	R3GV60R5YYH2C6	080705643X	483660751	The Great Transformation: The Political and Economic Origins of Our Time	Books	5	17	32	N	N	K. Polanyi¡¯s Demystification of liberlism	Polanyi's masterpiece, 'The Great Transformation' dealt with the same question as his forerunners like Marx, Weber, Durkheim: 'how our world come into being?' or as its subtitle, 'the political and economic origins of our time'. But he didn't suggest any name except banal title of 'The Great Transformation' which is barely used in his book and does barely play the explanatory role in the analysis contrary to his forerunners systemic edifice, for example, Marx's 'capital' or Weber's 'rationalization'. All his writings are the venture to overhaul existing concept, above all, the market. His world is different from forerunners' world 1 or 2 generation ago. The age of masters is over. Now it's time for exegesis. The weight of thought is realized through not only speculating but also historical event. His world was literally the aftermath of liberalism, he argued. His world located between 2 Great Wars one of which he participated in as army officer of the Habsburg Empire and another is the time when he wrote his influential work, 'The Great Transformation' (1944). We need to peep into what he had seen and felt then. <BR>The chasm between generation  before World War 1 and after, is reflected in the lack of optimism about path of western civilization in 'The Great Transformation'. Polanyi disdained that kind of optimism as '(liberal) cree'. That kind of attitude is different from his forerunners. Marx had unquestionable faith in 'progress'. And judging from his studies of religion, even pessimistic Weber seems to have shared that kind of view. His forerunners were optimistic about the attaining of rationality and liberty. But the confidence scattered away in the mid of 2 World Wars. Overarching intellectual climate of social scientists in Europe between wars, can be symbolized by the word, obsession. Polanyi's masterpiece was written in this atmosphere. For as Jews of Frankfurt school froze in front of Auschwitz, Polanyi was thus overwhelmed with the magnitude of catastrophe. <BR>German citizen's confidence in Nazi lay not in the psychological disposition as Frankfurt school claimed or nihilist determinism as Krockow asserted but in disillusion caused by inability of Weimar republic to cope with Great Depression and political disorder. Their choice was not irrational but rational at that point. There were 2 choices before them: liberalism, communism. Liberalism seemed too inept to solve the problems they faced. Bolshevism seemed the serious threat to many classes who were troubled with riots since 1918. Nazism was the second best.<BR>This was the bankruptcy of liberalism i.e., 19th century of civilization. It was not limited to Germany but worldwide phenomenon; the signal was sent by England's going off gold standard (1931). Collapse of gold standard means there is no standard for exchange between currencies. So next step in chain reaction was giving up free trade. The economic protectionism caught up world economy, which led in so called the bloc economy; Pound bloc, Franc bloc, Mark bloc, Dollar bloc, Yen bloc. Polanyi argued the failure of liberalism is traced back to fin de siecle and beyond.	2001-10-05
US	49955484	R3MV8HDC28GQZQ	0801866928	517518370	Globalization and the Postcolonial World: The New Political Economy of Development	Books	5	5	12	N	N	Clearcut and systematic	this is the second best  argument I've read on globalization. the best one is Giddens's theorizing. the edge point of Giddens's theory on globalization, for example The Consequences of Modernity, is overarching reach of conception. but he ignored the economic dimension of globalization. upto recent work, Runaway World, he has focused on social and political dimension of globalization. yep. it's the legimate territory of sociology. when his theory is coupled with global village(McLuhan) or global consciousness (Roland Robertson) I think it can be powerful tool to capture the global integration of lifestyle or culture. but isn't the economic impetus the dominant feature of globalization?<BR>on this point, I've relied on world system theory to get the overall picture. but the author pinpoints that theory blurs off the uniqueness of recent phenomenon. the distinction the author makes, of globalization and internationalization, transnationalization is insightful and provocative to me. for it can serve to depict somewhat new phenomenon. he points out the new chracteristics of global economic system like  this.<BR>A Global Market Discpline &amp; Principle: Unlike previous international econmic situation, it must be argued that there was global market-place where Licardian international division of labor and international product-service exchange dominated the time. but now since mid 70s, there has been a global market discipline i.e., system. the its concrete content is somewhat standard: Intra-firm trade or integrated international production system, Inter-product trade, intra-product trade. but he systemizes those facts under new conception. for exaple, he use the term ?iscpline to indicate the internalization of cut-throat competition in global market into market participant? code of conduct. this could be the intersection between economic, political and social theory.	2001-09-25
US	49955484	R31IJVSV2O4URL	0801852110	587054601	Sociology of the Global System	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Interesting but not systematic	This book deals with how to theorize the globalization or, as the author put it, global system. The author raises the question existing theories on global system like the theory of imperialism, modernization, neo-Marxism, dependency, world system or mode of production has tackled the phenomenon properly. His answer is 'no'. He calls attention to who is the main agent of globalizing or global system. TNC is the main agent but existing theories concentrated on nation-state as the unit of analysis. This is the wrong target. There should be another theory on what TNC has caused on global market. To tackle this mission the author divides the phenomenon into 3 spheres: economic, political, cultural-ideological. The example of each spheres is like this: International Labor Division, i.e., the labor market on global level, Transnational Capitalist Class, Consumerism or media hegemony. His taxonomy of global system is interesting especially his conceptualizing of consumerism. He argues that to be consumed, there should be desire to consume it. This should be achieved throu media. Globalized market needs this kind of cultural mechanism. But on the whole, his story is on the surface of phenomenon. It's not theory at all. He enumerates such empirical evidence. But I can't figure out what evidence is for. Personally I think recent theorizing of Arrigh on the theory of world system, is much more systemic and promising.	2001-09-22
US	49955484	R1ZAWVBJ8MWM7N	0674537513	312689812	The Logic of Collective Action: Public Goods and the Theory of Groups, Second printing with new preface and appendix (Harvard Economic Studies)	Books	5	11	19	N	N	Problem of Free Rider	Cost/Benefit When we look at cases of organizations like labor union, pressure group or firm, Even if members share the common interest, it doesn't guarantee they will act on that interest. To achieve the purpose, one should pay the cost. But 'a goal or purpose is common to a group means that no one in the group is excluded from the benefit or satisfaction brought about by it achievement.' So if one could get the benefit without cost, he would let others bear the burden. <BR>Public Good/Taxing: Everybody's business is nobody's business let's take example. The state provides public good like the defense, police protection, law system, which 'must be available to everyone if they are available to anyone'. It can't be free to provide those services. The burden is charged as tax. But tax evasion is as old as human history. It's the reason why the tax has been defined as 'compulsory payment'. Likewise 'collective good' of organizations cause the same free rider problem.<BR>Size matters: Individual acts on the function of cost and benefit: The lower cost to get the collective good, the more willing to bear the cost. The smaller is the size of group, the larger is the share of collective good one gets in relation to total cost. Even though only one member with greatest interest pays all the cost, he will do so as long as benefit exceeds cost. This kind of group can provide collective good without relying on coercion or incentive apart from the collective good itself. But without arranging the share of burden (group-oriented act), the amount of collective good can't be optimized (exploitation). 'Accordingly, the larger the group, the farther it will fall short of providing an optimal amount of a collective good.' Moreover, the larger is the group, the less likely noticeable is the effect of individual's contribution. So here the leviathan comes in: Coercion and incentive. Once there is the formal organizing, the larger the better, for it leads to lower cost to each. But organizing itself should be obtained at cost. 'These are the costs of 'communication among group members, the costs of any bargaining among them, and the costs of creating, staffing, and maintaining any formal group organization.' These costs put on the total cost of getting collective good. And it makes the supply of collective not optimized. This reinforces the need of coercion/incentive.<BR>Inclusive/Exclusive Group: If the nature of collective good is fixed (scarce) in supply, members doesn't resist to newcomers. In this case, members become competitor or rival to each other, for the availability of collective good is exclusive to each member. 'The firms in an industry would be an exclusive group when they sought a higher price in their industry by restricting output.' Here the monopoly is the ideal to participant. But in nonmarket situation, the opposite is true, for collective good is not fixed in supply. In other word, it's inclusive. In such a case, if permitted, the group tends to expand upto the point that benefit equals cost. When seeking lower taxes, or tariff, firms would make 'an inclusive group, and would enlist all the support they could get.<BR>Privileged/Intermediate/latent Group: Privileged group refers to the small group providing collective good for sure without organizing or coordinating. Intermediate group refers to the small group where nobody gets the benefit sufficient to motivate him to provide the good himself but it's not big enough to demotivate completely. Latent group refers to the large group where the problem of free riders is salient.<BR>Case Study-Unions are for collective bargaining: We take it for granted that labor union is by nature big organization. But contrary to common guess, the first labor unions in Britain and States began not as large, impersonal, metropolitan organizations (latent group) but as small, committed, local organizations (privileged group). It was better to be the privileged group with member's devotion and sacrifice (noncollective good cf. Owen), for it launched in hostile environment. But once a local union exists, a few factors drive it to organize the whole industry and to be large, national union. <BR>1. In market economy, employers should compete each other, so they can't survive with higher wage.<BR>2. Employers could find source of strikebreakers, were industry-wide organization.<BR>But when it comes to large, national union, there should be the problem of free rider. Workers can't hate collective good like wage raising, better work condition, job security. But the strike, weapon to get it, means the cost, and that, strikebreakers are legally free to cross picket line and would enjoy better paying than ever. And bargaining with employer cannot help being collective not individual or restricted to union member. So here comes the compulsory membership i.e., closed shop or union shop. 'Compulsory membership and picket lines are therefore of the essence of unionism'. This explains away why the early history of union was flooded with violence between/among workers and employers. The decline of labor union in States could be illuminated in the same way; 'No Closed Shop'. Without coerced participation, there is no means to support the union. For individual efforts wont change the whole picture. To attract members, unions relied on noncollective benefit such as insurance, welfare benefit, seniority rights. But the advent of welfare state deprived them of incentive to offer.	2001-09-22
US	49955484	R34D6IREW945W1	8121508347	334574177	Central Philosophy of Buddhism ( A Study of Madhyamika System)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Understanding the emptiness	before this book published there were some misunderstanding of Buddhism as nihilism for example. but after publishing of this book it changed. this book is somewhat old but classical text on the philosophical system of Buddhism from the viewpoint of Kantian logic to be readable to westerners.this viewpoint caused some debates these days. but for this viewpoint it's still the best introdution to Buddhism. This book covers the development from primitive Buddhism to Mahayana, especially to Middle way school. the discussion is concentrated on this school. the merit of this book is that the arguments between Buddhsim and Hindi and among Buddhist schools are well described.	2001-08-21
US	49955484	R1M0NSYYDIDDTB	0804725195	459073004	A Contemporary Critique of Historical Materialism	Books	5	0	4	N	N	examplifying structuration theory	This book was intended to be an assessing vulgar Marxism officially. but we should read this book as the attempt to examplify his structuration theory. if u read his major theoretical works like 'central problems in social theory', 'the constitution of society', u must feel get lost for lack of concrete example and abstractness. his writing style on theorizing is not that applausable. sure it's not confined only to him. most theorists in sociology are not better him. even worse, their conceptualizing lack succintness and articulateness. at least Giddens has them.  this book must be read as giving example to his structuration theory. sure his critic of vulgar Marxism is also interesting and has good points. but his points in this book like power, time-space distanciation, tradition, nation-state, the discontinuity of capitialism, ~~~ are not intrinsic to Marxism per se. sure his critic is valid but it rather effective to provide good examples to his own theory.	2001-07-05
US	49955484	R20H21CCTEXLOG	0521574471	652392882	Institutions in Economics: The Old and the New Institutionalism (Historical Perspectives on Modern Economics)	Books	3	5	7	N	N	no adequate to beginners	some listmania recommended this book as a initial introduction to institutional economics. but it's not good for such purpose. as a balance sheet between old and new institutional economics, it serves its purpose but as a intorduction to IE sui generis, it doesn't at all. for such purpose, it's not focused at all and points are dispersed over various theory and opinions. and to serve its initial purpose, contrasting OIE vs NIE, there is no opinion of the author himself. it often makes readers deviate the line of argument. if u need an introduction to IE, u should find other like Geoffrey M. Hodgson's ' Economics and Institutions'.	2001-07-05
US	49955484	R3FHRDJOTYXM77	0804712069	504863072	MITI and the Japanese Miracle: The Growth of Industrial Policy, 1925-1975	Books	5	13	16	N	N	Like a novel	This book is the classic to be read in the field of the developmental state which refer to East Asian economic developmental strategy not only for Japan. thou Chalmers Johnson is not the one who coined the word, developmental state, he has been most influential in that field by this book. btw dry and technical? I can't see why this book recieves that kind of respose. the overall style of description is something of an well written novel. the author gave the life to the past with details. and that it's interesting enough to be sombering overnight. Below I try to depict the position of this book on the discouse of economics<BR>Johnson revived almost forgotten ghost from the sea of oblivion: mercantilism. <BR>Mercantilism seemed completely beaten away long before modern economics took shape. Mercantilism was a pragmatic adaptation, not a theory of how economies are supposed to operate. It anticipates or at times contradicts market signals, with the goal of channeling resources to (or away from) selected sectors, in the interests of the prosperity of the one or the power of other. But economists argued that such a policy is no more than the terror against market efficiency. The wisdom of the state cant be claimed to be more efficient than market. Moreover, it often mass-produces rent-seeking distortions on resource allocation. It makes more harms than benefits. The state should not guide the resource allocation. The role of the state lies in other area: providing the public good and responding to market failures. <BR>Johnson labeled this kind of role as the regulatory state. The United States and Britain exemplify the regulatory state. Such states task is the setting of rules that govern entry, exit, competition, investment, pricing, and other basic functions of the market. That kind of task is called as economic regulation. Economic regulation provides the basic framework of rules needed to keep market operate and responses to the problems of market failure. <BR>But developmental state, as Johnson found in Japans success story, holds that economic regulation has the goals beyond market maintenance. Developmental state takes the long term national welfare as the primary mission of state. It actively intervenes in economic activities to improve the international competitiveness. Japans economic bureaucrats and business leaders rejected the philosophy of laissez-faire, free trade of open markets. To them, these concepts were little more than protection for the economically powerful exporters. The strategy of developmental state is the denial of extant hierarchy of comparative advantage. To achieve high growth rate, there should be high return sectors. But such sectors, in general, have no relation with developing countries. Then, should developing countries rest with agriculture or labor-intensive industries? Not necessarily. Such sectors tend to be low value-added, in other words, with low growth prospect. If you dont have it, then make it! Japanese bureaucrats sought to use activist policies to generate competitive advantages. In this regard, developmental state is a logical offspring of economic nationalism and neo-mercantilism. Driven by such a motive, developmental state use economic regulation to foster the technological development, capacity growth, and competitiveness of targeted industries considered essential to national economy in the future. <BR>Both models dont deny the role of the state. But they differ from each other in the perception of resource allocation. The point of neoclassical economics is the efficiency, whereas the one of neo-mercantilism is the effectiveness. There could be no a priori or empirical criterion to judge which model is valid to the real world, for each has its own supporting evidence. The arbiter is the whim of trend. Chalmers Johnson captured the public not for its theoretical superiority but for its timing. The 1980s is the time when orthodox recipes of economics lostits effectiveness. The US lost its competitiveness not only in the world market but also in its domestic market. The word, competitiveness or competitive advantage has seized the day. Competitiveness or competitive advantage is not the word of efficiency but the word of effectiveness. Even if the economy were efficient, it could be not effective on the market. Then what efficiency is for at all? Formidable competitor, Japan, became the teacher. Japan is No.1.The US should learn from the superior. It was the reason why Chalmers Johnson took the attention. He was not the only one who drew such a picture of Japan. But the manner he challenged neoclassical economics and its timing were Johnsons advantage. But the time swung against developmental state theory. Japan has been lost in doldrums. Now the time reveals cracks in and limitations of the developmental state theory. Criticisms focus on a reductionism of the state, incomplete and even misleading elucidation of state-society links and growing doubts about the positive correlation between the state and economic performance. Still the developmental state theory has the validity in explaining certain period (from 1945 to 1973) of Japanese economy. But it lost once the dominant position it enjoyed.	2001-07-05
US	49955484	R3MLEXOH0Q2M8M	0256015406	178096309	The structure of sociological theory (The Dorsey series in sociology)	Books	4	3	8	N	N	Good but outdated	'The Structure of Sociological Theory' is now out of print for its content is so out of date that it would rather write whole other book than update. to keep up with the current, the volume of book should be too bulky to be used on class, thou it was very concise and adaquately structured account on theoretical edifice. for instance, he took Dahrendorf as example to conflict theory. it should have some appealing point in '70s but now could u find anyone to read him? this kind of example are the major problem arising from it aging. as the title implies this book not intended to focus on individual theorist. but I read this book twice on undergraduate and graduate courses as introduction to not only theoretical schools but also theorists.	2001-07-05
US	49955484	R33FJW3DQGLHPD	0631207341	400183340	Anthony Giddens: An Introduction to a Social Theorist	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Not for the intermediatary	I can't figure out why my previous writing hasn't been posted yet. btw if you expect some decent overview of whole theoretical structure of Giddens's, you should skip this book. this book is mere recapping of Giddens's major titles. sure there are somewhat short assessment on the final chapter. but from my view, it's not fair judgment and worse not insightful at all thou some points are worth reading thou with no supporting. the only merit is the list of all Giddens's work including his journal paper and other's on Giddens	2001-06-25
US	49955484	R1EAVIUMQWJE0R	0534509053	927590473	Emergence of Sociological Theory	Books	4	3	5	N	N	Good and succinct, structured textbook	J. Turner has been famous for his textbook on sociological theory. for example his 'The Structure of Sociological Theory' was now out of print for its content is so out of date that it would rather write whole other book than update. to keep up with the current, the volume of book should be too bulky to be used on class. but it was very concise and adaquately structured account on theoretical edifice. this book is not for contemporary theories but for classical theories like Marx, Weber, Durkheim. and that it has all the advantage of his previous title had: succinct and unbiased account of theories with explanation of theoritical background. and better, this book covers the historical background of theory. sure this kind of purpose, Giddens's 'Capitalism and Social Theory' should be better but this book covers not merely 3 masters but Comte, Spencer, Simmel, Pareto in coherent style	2001-06-25
US	49955484	R2PPQ6QSMI15KM	0415078989	333440815	Quantity and Quality in Social Research (Contemporary Social Research)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Not only practical but methodological	this book is not adequate textbook for undergraduate methodology class but for refernce to qualitative method. this book highlight the advantage, logic of qualitative method against quantatative method. unlike the title, this book does not deal with survey research but field research. survey is refered to when it's needed to explain field research thou it's not that unfair for survey is well explained away by most methodology textbook. like the subject, this book starts with somewhat philosophically from the debate on positivism but like most textbook thesedays the line is not that hostile to survey. the author argues they are different not false or true over the other. the merit of this book is that the advantage and disadvantage of field research are explained succinctly and clearly with concrete example from real research works. well written one	2001-06-25
US	49955484	R1SCYLSDQRCQFH	0881322830	801014326	The Political Economy of the Asian Financial Crisis	Books	3	5	7	N	N	Journalistic title from famous scholar	Haggard has a good name in East Asia field. but this title disappointed me. it's not that scholarstic but journalistic. what are enumerated on his book is not new or insightful at all to asian specialist. if you have read articles on Asia from FT or Wall Street Journal, The Economist, You should know what I mean. at best this book is no more than enlarged The Economist.	2001-04-11
US	49955484	R14XJ83DIZNOAE	0415927196	540028360	Runaway World: How Globalization is Reshaping Our Lives	Books	3	6	12	N	N	Some lame book from big star	Giddens has a very big name. but name is name. this book has nothing new or insightful. all are there is reproduced from his previous books. and worse, the pricing is unduly high. if u read already his books, u'd better skip this title.	2001-04-11
US	49955484	RAYMJ4KQPPZ9I	0520039750	988936085	Central Problems in Social Theory: Action, Structure, and Contradiction in Social Analysis	Books	4	8	23	N	N	Philosophy and Sociology	It seems unneccessarily complicated riddle to solve to us, sociologists. actually Giddens's writing style in this title is not that easy to grasp judging from sociological convention. and worse he cited too many names like Saussure, Hegel, Levi-Strauss, Heidegger, Husserl and even Derrida and Wittgenstein! those that makes readers wandering around jargons from philosophy. because this book stem from the controversial atmosphere of 70s when French Structuralism prevailed over intellectural map. Giddens wanted to conter their assertions. we can see he was right at 80s when structurism collapsed into trendy postmodernist jargons.  Anyway I recommend to read this title if u read 'The Constitution of Society'. which title is not that hostile to reader like this title. but something lacks on it. You can find what miss in later masterpiece. This title is somewhat earlier endeavor to clarify his theory of structuration. so thorems were not that clearly founded. it makes it the way to hostility to readers but sometimes this kind of imperfection is more valuable to portray one's image of theory.	2001-04-10
US	49955484	R2L1FAPFTI3ZWI	0520057287	42770912	The Constitution of Society: Outline of the Theory of Structuration	Books	5	8	10	N	N	Ontology in Sociology	I think Giddens' structuration theory is the most promising theory since collapse of Parsons' framework.I read this book at undergraduate for the first time. while I studied Husserl and Heidegger at the same time. this help me understand Giddens with ease. I recommend to read Heidegger's Sein und Zeit to see the motive under Giddens' theory. this is not hidden fact. Giddens himself noted it several times. without philosopical background knowledge, it's impossible to access him properly. u will see my point if u read the first page of his 'Central Problem of Social Theory'. I agree to Turner's point that Giddens' theoretical framework is vague at best sencitising for actual research. concepts are clearly defined but how those concepts are related to each other is not that clear. reader himself should fill the gaps. one should make up for this difficulty with grasping Giddens' deep motive under framework. to do so, u should know well the tradition of Sociology and modern philosophy.	2001-03-19
