US	49956909	R2L23HIBHBN1U	1422600076	493652350	Dear Rabbi, Dear Doctor: The Renowned Rabbi-Psychiatrist Gives Straight Answers to Tough Questions	Books	5	4	4	N	N	informative, Solomonic.. and perhaps voyeuristic	Denial is more than a river in Egypt.  It can be a root to many problems and issues.  Rabbi Twerski is an esteemed rabbi and Pittsburgh-based psychiatrist who is called upon the world over for his opinions.  I was so addicted (a good addiction) to this book, I had to buy two more copies, because I kept loaning out my other copies to friends.  There are over 200 questions and answers in this book covering issues including marriage, medicine, anxiety, 9/11 trauma, child rearing, chronic discontent, causeless hatred (sinas chinam), jealousy, pettiness, shalom bayit, retirement woes, depression, bi-polarity, addiction, an immature spouse, a paranoid shulmate, emotional dependecies, issues with parents and in-laws (who goes for help, the person with the headache or the person who causes the headache?), issues of self esteem, issues of hashkafah (perspective/ideology), dyselxia, and shidduchim.  You learn a lot; it is a tiny bit voyeuristic; and if you are like me, you will find yourself disagreeing with him in some cases, and finding him Solomonic in other cases.<br /><br />Some of my favorite questions were: One \\"BT\\" asks why he is being discriminated against for a shidduch even though he is a great student (is it his perception, or something different?)  An educated questioner is frustrated that no one listens to him/her (is it the ideas, or the way they are presented).  May a shul move from a deteriorated neighborhood to a new suburb if it will leave older congregants without a house of worship?  Can a rabbi recuse himself of giving advice to a nudnick if he has a vested emotional interest in the outcome?  What if a teen crosses the street rather than walk quickly past an older slower walker so as not to embarrass them, but actually cuase them to feel ostracized?  Why would Rabbi Twerski discourage the use of tranquilizers by a widow or widower to overcome shiva grief?  What should one do if their husband is beloved in the community, but a tyrant at home? What if one's father abandoned the family and now wants to come to the daughter's wedding since she is marrying into a prestigious family?  How can one overcome exam anxiety?  Is marriage a hospital (will a shidduch solve emotional issues)?  Must you honor a parent who calls you derogatory names?  If a wife likes nail polish and her husband does not (due to religious reasons) , but the wife feels pretty with it on, but her husband doesn't, what should they do?  If you act like a doormat, will people (or your daughter in law) wipe their feet on you all the time?  It is a treasure trove of tsurris and intelligent answers.one's father abandoned the family and now wants to come to the daughter's wedding since she is marrying into a prestigious family?  How can one overcome exam anxiety?  Is marriage a hospital (will a shidduch solve emotional issues)?  Must you honor a parent who calls you derogatory names?  If a wife likes nail polish and her husband does not (due to religious reasons) , but the wife feels pretty with it on, but her husband doesn't, what should they do?  If you act like a doormat, will people (or your daughter in law) wipe their feet on you all the time?  It is a treasure trove of tsurris and intelligent answers.	2005-10-10
US	49956909	R1GKXSM2MLWA7N	0670059552	295094223	Kibitzers and Fools	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Schlemiels and Schmendricks for your enjoyment and gezundt	With kinetic Jewish drawings and a book design that only Taback can achieve, the author retells 13 stories that were told to him by his zayda.  The inside front and back covers are filled with famous Yiddish axioms in primary colors (well, most are Yiddishisms, others might be from Poor Richard's Alamanac).  Idioms include From the lowly potato you get the choicest latke; Words are like arrows - both deliver with speedy aim;  Words should be weighed and not counted; \\"Keep you eye on the bagel, and not the hole; and It is easier to be a critic than an author.  Each of the 13 stories is followed by axiom.  Each story is about 2 pages, maybe 4, but who's counting?  One story is about a fish monger, and his neighbors (they all have to put in their two cents cuz they are kibitzers.)  Another is about a shnayder, a tailor. Is he a genius, or just bad?  One story is about a sick chicken  (look closely at the thermometer).  Some stories seem like they are from Chelm, one might be from Mel Brooks (hehe); but all have a twist.  Of course, there is a well drawn colorful story about the difference between a shlemiel and a shliMazel.  In a story about two brothers, God has an important insight into the human condition.  In one story we find out when a Labish Noodleman can be a Yankel.  My faves: If I Were a Rockefeller; and The Caretaker.  The book closes with a glossary of over 45 words, including cheder; meshugge; megilla; klug; Gottenyu; and even gonif.	2005-10-03
US	49956909	R1P456PO0NVGPK	0312307411	247381726	Born To Kvetch: Yiddish Language and Culture in All Its Moods	Books	5	20	23	N	N	Even the Hebrews kvetched at the Red Sea. Oy, am i thirsty!	This book, as Wex points out, is more than just bupkes and tukhes.  It is intelligent and funny, and left me with a greater understanding of the collective (un)Conscious of the Jews of Yiddish heritage, as well as Jewish toilet paper, and also why you schlog a rooster for Yom Kippur (cuz they are lighter than cows and scapegoats).  Leo Rosten... move over.  Kveching has a deep history, and it didn't begin in Eastern Europe.  The author reminds us that the Hebrews kvetched (k'vetch... like sitting on a toilet after eating lots of matzah) at the Red Sea (what?  there werent enough graves in Egypt, you had to bring us to the desert?), and in the desert they kvetched about the food. (Moses responded: you want meat?  you'll have meat not just a day or a week, but for a month ... so long that you'll get sick of it (and they did)).  Mr. Wex tells us the quintessential Yiddish kvetch; A Jewish man is on a train and kvetches non stop, \\"oy am i thirsty\\".. \\"oy, Am i thirsty.\\"  An annoyed, put-upon passenger gets him some water -- not out of kindness, but out of irritation.  The Jewish man drinks and begins to kvetch again, \\"oy, WAS i thirsty!\\"  This is the deep deep idea of pleasurable kvetching and one's lot in life.<br /><br />Chapters include ones on Yiddish Curses; Poultry; Luck Misery and Money; Yiddish and Nature; Courtship and Marriage; Sex; Death; and Birth.  Guess what the Jewish pastry called a sheygets looks like?  Did you know what St Paul said about shiksas?  Why does realistic Yiddish disagree with nominalist Juliet's sweet smelling roses?  Why did the hun, hon, and litvish hin become a chicken in America?  SO many things to learn.  SO many references to Greece, Orwell, Shakespeare and world history.  After reading it, i was lakhn mit yashtsherkes, and i felt like (or looked like) oyszen vi a hon nokh tashmish.	2005-10-03
US	49956909	R1549I8R1PAPE9	0618133372	672811557	The Firekeeper's Son	Books	5	4	4	N	N	He who lights the fire, also serves the crown as a soldier of peace	Perhaps for centuries, the royal court of Korea kept infomred of invading forces and problems in it eight provinces through a series of bonfires lit from one hilltop to the next.  In this story, a young boy and his father live in a seacoast village on the first line of defense for the bonfires.  Each night, the boy's father lights a bonfire which is seen by hilltop after hilltop all the way back to the king.  But when he in injured, his son must light the fire.  But would it not be better to not light it, so that some excitement and soldiers will come to the village?  Or does reponsibility win out?	2005-07-03
US	49956909	R18JRC5ZOT143E	0316608513	980662979	The Sky's the Limit: Passion and Property in Manhattan	Books	5	38	40	N	N	Get comfortable + move into this book for an engrossing read	I approached this book with indifference.  But by page three, I was a convert, and engrossed in this vuyeuristic story of opulence and property on the Upper East Side of Manhattan, an area the contains the greatest concentration of personal wealth on Earth.  I never knew the names behind these social register families, the newly-rich strivers, the surnames who raise most of the funds for New York's cultural institutions, and the re-branded real estate brokers who serve these super rich co-op owners.  Gaines throws in the juicy stories of how Nixon was rejected by buildings, how Vanderbilt sued for entry into a GB (Good Building), how Streisand got stuck with her place for years, and how the powerful and wealthy are brought low by dictatorial co-op boards.  There are stories of well positioned board packages, the mistakes of wearing the wrong clothes or being a pretty divorcee at board interviews, and how one should say that they love dogs if the board president is the largest funder of the ASPCA.  Gaines uses the story of Tommy Hilfiger and his \\"board package\\" to show the evolution of upper east side real estate - namely the acceptance of some \\"garmentos\\" in to the best good buildings.  Of course, when Hilfiger finally got a place, his divorce forced the apartment to be flipped (and flipped again.)  When people say a book a juicy, this is the sort of book they mean.  It is hard to put down, and it illuminates a world few of us will ever experiences.	2005-06-19
US	49956909	R19UDWYC7PCXZZ	B0002MJDWW	973308970	The Ex-Boyfriend Cookbook: They Came, They Cooked, They Left (But We Ended Up with Some Great Recipes)	Books	4	8	9	N	N	prurient recipes / collages for food lovers or lover's foods	NO, this is not a manual on how to cook an ex.  This is a collection of recipes taken from the ex-boyfriends of these two women; they had an attraction to chefs, fry cooks, and others.  Since these writers are collage aficionados as well, each recipe is printed atop a collage of pics and drawings.  The recipes are separated into Sweet Things; Sort of fluffy things; Savory things; Spicy things, Slippery things; and Substantial things.  Honestly, most of the time, I found the stories much more interesting than the recipes.  I was also astonished by the number of men these two women \\"dated.\\"<br /><br />The book opens with Cream Cheese Brownies, a recipe from the mother of a prom date.  The mother was more into the author than her son, and was more crushed when they broke up.  But what do you expect when the author made out with a waiter after her prom instead of her date?  For a recipe for refrigerator cookies, she traded a pencil sharpener with her ex.  While Proust may have remembered things past due to a pastry, the author recalls an English toffee recipe when the \\"new\\" girlfriend of her ex-bf moves into the apartment next door to her and she can hear them communicating through the thin walls.  From Sam, a ditch digger and a Bud drinker who went to prison, one of the authors got an apple crisp recipe.  From David Goldberg, a guy who once owned a ferret and liked to make out in fast food restaurant toilets, she got a Passover chocolate torte recipe.  And from a neighbor she never dated, but who rarely failed to satisfy his dates, she got a \\"morning after\\" coitus coffee cake recipe.<br /><br />Henry, who planned to lose his virginity in high school with one of the authors, made some nice buckwheat pancakes in the morning; from a young Iowa dental student who she met picking apples, well at least attempting to pick ones (who proposed marriage after 3 weeks), an author got a cottage cheese pancakes recipe; from Ralph, she got popcorn cake, made of popped corn and gumdrops and peanuts and M&M's; and from some masked man at a Halloween Party, she got a banana choco chip cake recipe (they threw a banana focused party in their banana yellow house one October, and he gave her this recipe the next morning).  Lemon Lush is a lemon pudding, cool whip and cream cheese mixture atop a flour crust that she got from a guy who kissed her passionately in the bathroom at a drunken wedding.  They later corresponded but when they met again, she realized that reality, weddings, memories, and literary letters do not always converge.  Eli, for whom she had to buy $20 worth of extra large condoms, gave her his tossed spicy vegetables recipe<br /><br />Although most of the recipes are for snacks, soups, dips, drinks, salads and simple items, there are a few larger dishes.  They include Thai Tom Yum Goong from a fellow Peace Corps volunteer, and Ezra's Sticky Chicken, marinated in vinegar, sugar, and soy sauce, with whom she got splinters on a decaying dock in a pond one day.<br /><br />The book feeds your stomach as well as your desire to be a voyeurumdrops and peanuts and M&M's; and from some masked man at a Halloween Party, she got a banana choco chip cake recipe (they threw a banana focused party in their banana yellow house one October, and he gave her this recipe the next morning).  Lemon Lush is a lemon pudding, cool whip and cream cheese mixture atop a flour crust that she got from a guy who kissed her passionately in the bathroom at a drunken wedding.  They later corresponded but when they met again, she realized that reality, weddings, memories, and literary letters do not always converge.  Eli, for whom she had to buy $20 worth of extra large condoms, gave her his tossed spicy vegetables recipe <br /> <br />Although most of the recipes are for snacks, soups, dips, drinks, salads and simple items, there are a few larger dishes.  They include Thai Tom Yum Goong from a fellow Peace Corps volunteer, and Ezra's Sticky Chicken, marinated in vinegar, sugar, and soy sauce, with whom she got splinters on a decaying dock in a pond one day. <br /> <br />The book feeds your stomach as well as your desire to be a voyeur	2005-05-24
US	49956909	R39JRM3JY6BNRX	0881258695	580949522	Women At The Seder: A Passover Haggadah (English and Hebrew Edition)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	A nice addition to Haggadah collections w/ good commentaries	This is a TRADITIONAL Haggadah that celebrates the emergence and achievements of women in public Orthodox Jewish life. It is compiled by Joel Wolowelsky, the Dean of the Faculty at Brooklyn's Yeshivah of Flatbush, where he teaches Math and Philosophy.  He is an associate editor of \\"Tradition,\\" a journal of Orthodox Jewish thought.  The format is right to left, with Hebrew on right facing pages, English translations on left facing pages, and commentaries on the bottom of each page. There are no transliterations. There is a page of Tkhines for Peysekh, and a Blessing for sons and a blessing for daughters.  The four \\"sons\\" are four children (And the commentary asks how can there be a wise and wicked child in the same family, raised by the same parents? [Oprah can do a show on this issue])  The illustration of the Rasha child is smoking a cigarette.<br /><br />I began learning from his commentaries on the first page.  Did you know that some families add cooked fish to their seder plates, to commemorate Miriam (in addition to Moses and Aaron), and that this tradition is over 700 years old? Or that in some Syrian Jewish families, the leader places the matzah over his or her shoulder and talks about leaving Egypt, and then passes it to all the others at the table, and they repeat the stories of Exodus?  Did you know that seders at the old secular kibbutzim used to ask, \\"Why on this night do we eat together and not with kids and adults separated?\\"  Did you know that in the Talmud TB Pesahim 108a, women who were not prominent were not supposed to recline out of fear of their husbands, but in the same chapter, the Mordehai rules that all women and men must recline.  This practice of subjugation was mostly changed over time.  One commentary discusses how the Haggadah uses the word Rahtzah,  the feminine form of the word for \\"washing\\", and is used here to recall that women saved Moses when he was born.  The Haggadah has tidbits, such as when he quotes a ruling by Rabbi Akiva Eiger, he notes that the Eiger children are known by their mother's maiden name (Eiger's or Pressburg) instead of his father's Guens surname; or some Ashkenazi medieval haggadot would include a picture of a rabbit, since the German word (jagen-has) for rabbit hunt, sounds like YaKNeHaZ (Yayin, Kiddush, Ner, Havdalah, Zman), the order of Saturday night blessings.  Several female scholars are quoted, including Marisa Savitsky, Yaffa Eliach, Nechama Leibowitz, Dina Haramati, Aviva Gottlieb Zornberg, Levia Cooper, Dassi Tropper, Shulie Rubin and many others.a Eiger, he notes that the Eiger children are known by their mother's maiden name (Eiger's or Pressburg) instead of his father's Guens surname; or some Ashkenazi medieval haggadot would include a picture of a rabbit, since the German word (jagen-has) for rabbit hunt, sounds like YaKNeHaZ (Yayin, Kiddush, Ner, Havdalah, Zman), the order of Saturday night blessings.  Several female scholars are quoted, including Marisa Savitsky, Yaffa Eliach, Nechama Leibowitz, Dina Haramati, Aviva Gottlieb Zornberg, Levia Cooper, Dassi Tropper, Shulie Rubin and many others.	2005-04-10
US	49956909	RFQ2XZDR2PLGW	9657108713	736754269	Light of Redemption: A Passover Haggadah Based on the Writings of Rav Kook	Books	5	14	14	N	N	Helps to levitate your unleavened holiday	Rabbi Abraham Isaac (Avraham Yitzhak) haCohen Kook (1865-1935) was born in Latvia, studied in the great yeshivot of Lithuania (and Volozhin). Rav Kook became a Zionist leader and the first Chief Rabbi of Palestine.  His Zionist infused essays and analysis of the festival of Pesach (Israel being a modern day exodus of the Hebrews) became a mainstay of Israeli haggadahs and Passover seders. Now, finally, these essays and thoughts are available to an English speaking and reading audience.<br /><br />The Haggadah's format is Right to Left, with Hebrew text on the right pages, and English translations on the facing left pages. Commentaries are at the bottom of the pages. There is no transliteration of the Hebrew; and the four sons are \\"sons\\" and not \\"children.\\" The Haggadah opens with five essays, one of which is \\"Four That is Really Five,\\" which discusses four cups of wine, four sons, four questions, four redemptions.. or is it really five?  Is there actually a fifth son that is not talked about?<br /><br />There are songs at the back of the Haggadah, the Hallel, as well as Shir haShirim (no English, just voweled Hebrew), since some  families have a custom of reading the Song of Songs at their Seder. It also includes the Search for Leavening, and illustrations of three ways to arrange a seder plate: according to The Ari; The Gaon of Vilna; and Rabbi Moshe Isserlis.<br /><br />But the reason to buy this Haggadah is the Kook commentaries. Here are just a tiny bit of examples: For Kaddesh, Rav Kook asks, why Kaddesh and not Kiddush for this recitation of the kiddush? Because Kaddesh is singular and an imperative for each individual to sanctify. Why is the simple function of washing your hands U'rechatz before the Karpas a way to transport oneself to Jews around the world? For Karpas you dip a vegetable in salt water. Which is the food? The solid vegetable or the liquid? Is the salt water merely tears of the slaves? Or is the fluid more; is the fusing consumption of fluid and solid more significant than just salty water on a vegetable? When the hungry and the needy are invited to the seder, Rav Kook asks why are the hungry and needy BOTH mentioned. How do they differ? What are their differing needs and characteristics? I was especially drawn to Rav Kook's commentaries on the nature of freedom. Passover is the festival of freedom; we are commanded to feel free, but yet we are constrained by the format of the seder. Rav Kook cuts to the heart of the matter. How can you be free yet forced to follow a format at the same time. Rav Kook wrote that freedom is not achieved by each person doing whatever s/he wants, but the freedom to act without coercion but within a framework. Regarding the \\"wicked son,\\" Rav Kook says that the almighty saves those who want to be saved, and that some are content with their slavery. They see the seder as work and service. Rav Kook comments on \\"The Egyptians mistreated us\\" by writing that that 'the Egyptians made us bad', and that servitude causes one to lose faith and leads to Hebrews mistreating fellow Hebrews as well as others. For \\"with a strong hand\\", Rav Kook relates that God required a strong hand to extricate the Hebrews from Egypt. Rav Kook asks why Maror is eaten after Matzah. Would it not be better to taste the Maror of slavery before the Matzah of freedom? Or must we first taste freedom, and then only eat of slavery to better understand servitude from the vantage point of freedom?<br /><br />Although this is a holiday of leavened bread, reading this book will truly levitate your seder.fluid and solid more significant than just salty water on a vegetable? When the hungry and the needy are invited to the seder, Rav Kook asks why are the hungry and needy BOTH mentioned. How do they differ? What are their differing needs and characteristics? I was especially drawn to Rav Kook's commentaries on the nature of freedom. Passover is the festival of freedom; we are commanded to feel free, but yet we are constrained by the format of the seder. Rav Kook cuts to the heart of the matter. How can you be free yet forced to follow a format at the same time. Rav Kook wrote that freedom is not achieved by each person doing whatever s/he wants, but the freedom to act without coercion but within a framework. Regarding the \\"wicked son,\\" Rav Kook says that the almighty saves those who want to be saved, and that some are content with their slavery. They see the seder as work and service. Rav Kook comments on \\"The Egyptians mistreated us\\" by writing that that 'the Egyptians made us bad', and that servitude causes one to lose faith and leads to Hebrews mistreating fellow Hebrews as well as others. For \\"with a strong hand\\", Rav Kook relates that God required a strong hand to extricate the Hebrews from Egypt. Rav Kook asks why Maror is eaten after Matzah. Would it not be better to taste the Maror of slavery before the Matzah of freedom? Or must we first taste freedom, and then only eat of slavery to better understand servitude from the vantage point of freedom?  <br /> <br />Although this is a holiday of leavened bread, reading this book will truly levitate your seder.	2005-03-30
US	49956909	R25IOQC3LVJA06	0802117880	459227645	Sightseeing	Books	5	8	8	N	N	We R Siamese if u please / The lovely paired w/ the unseemly	Sightseeing is a supremely mastered collection of six short stories and one novella set in modern Thailand.  Mr. Lapcharoensap, who is known as \\"A\\", which is a contraction of \\"cha-ae\\" (the Thai equivalent of \\"peek-a-boo\\"), was born in Chicago, raised in Thailand and the U.S., and graduated from an American writing program.  It is refreshing to read stories set in Thailand in which the Thais do not speak in pidgin English.  The tales will resonate with you and afterwards you will ponder them and perhaps reread them to look for how his finely crafted sentence structures, alliterations, and pacing made the story move along so well.<br /><br />Each story in sightseeing is led by a different guide, and they allow the reader to observe different aspects of this \\"Land of Smiles\\" that are rarely seen by non-Thais.  In \\"Farang,\\" we meet a young man living in the lush beach districts of the South, where tourists and natives show their uglier sides and prejudice amidst the beautiful landscapes.  In \\"Draft Day,\\" economic privileges and class contexts intrude on friendships; and in \\"At The Caf&eacute; Lovely\\" a brother recalls a bonding experience and loss of innocence in a cafe that is not so lovely and fingers smell of heaven and glue.  Hate and prejudice; bumper cars, abuse and love; depression, disgrace and decay, and the nasty, nefarious habits of prostitution, sniffing paint thinner, and goons with methamphetamine intrude on the succulent landscapes.  In \\"Sightseeing,\\" a son and mother make a trip to the beautiful coast before he starts college, gains some senses, and she loses one of hers.  In \\"Priscilla the Cambodian\\", two Thai boys befriend a gold-toothed, young girl from the Cambodian refugee shanty town that abuts their struggling middle class housing development, and learn some lessons that shock them from their swiftly ending childhood.  In \\"Don't Let Me Die in This Place,\\" we are introduced to a non-Thai - an older American widower who is suffering from the effects of a stroke and forced to live in the sweltering heat of BKK with his son, Thai daughter-in-law, and two Thai speaking grandchildren. Worse yet, he must drink his beer through a straw.  In the author's able hands, the reader will feel both the sweat and frustrations of `Mister Perry.'  The collection ends with a novella, \\"Cockfighter,\\" about a 15 year old teen and her parents.  Her father works as a winning cockfighter, training birds to fight. But when a local hoodlum enters this man's domain, the feathers fly and the family might get pecked apart.a stroke and forced to live in the sweltering heat of BKK with his son, Thai daughter-in-law, and two Thai speaking grandchildren. Worse yet, he must drink his beer through a straw.  In the author's able hands, the reader will feel both the sweat and frustrations of `Mister Perry.'  The collection ends with a novella, \\"Cockfighter,\\" about a 15 year old teen and her parents.  Her father works as a winning cockfighter, training birds to fight. But when a local hoodlum enters this man's domain, the feathers fly and the family might get pecked apart.	2005-03-21
US	49956909	RQ1YBMWPJYK24	1593540310	83690326	This is Passover	Books	5	3	3	N	N	sweeter than extra sweet malaga	Santiago Cohen attended art school in Mexico and holds a master's degree from the Pratt Institute in New York City. In this board book for the youngest children, there are cute colorful drawings that explain the holiday and seder meal in under 16 pages.  It begins with a set table, then wine and matzo are added to the place settings (and a dog and a girl); then Haggadahs (Haggadot) are added along with a boy; then the salt water, roasted egg, maror, grandma and an older boy; and then on successive pages, more symbols are added along with rhyming text and the story.  The reader can point to different items at the table to reinforce their own commentaries.  The rhymes are cute, and include pour/maror; brine/wine; and story/glory.  By the final page, we have a full table, a story, a squared-off bottle of wine - hopefully sweet malaga - and as the candles light we are ready to begin the seder night.	2005-03-13
US	49956909	R1O85NCCFQKEJ	1578601770	589249159	Abuelita's Secret Matzahs	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Why on this night do we eat flat tortillas, grandma?	Abuelita (grandma) is descended from \\"crypto Jews\\" in New Mexico, people who hid their religion in the 15th and 16th Centuries when they left Spain for Mexico and the new Mexican territories.  When her grandson, Jacobo, comes to visit around Easter time, he learns about her avoidance of pork and the secret flat tortillas (no yeast) she traditionally eats at this Springtime religious festival.  Peculiar?  Then Jacobo meets and plays with David.  David's family also eats flat bread, lights candles on Friday night, and avoids pork.  They are Jewish and celebrate Passover, not Easter.  Jacobo, like David, asks a lot of questions.  But unlike at a seder, there is no Ha Lachman Anya... abuelita keeps quiet.  But after continued question, abuelita relents and tells him the story of hidden Jews.  A lovely multicultural and historical story.  The book ends with a recipe for Jacobo's favorite Sopa (although it is not a Passover soup since it uses leavened bread)	2005-03-13
US	49956909	R1BW2UUYVEALIF	0525471693	592279270	The Matzo Ball Boy	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Let all who are hungry...  come and read	One day, the author, Lisa Shulman (author and a former classroom teacher), was making soup while her daughters read the Gingerbrad Man story.  OY! BING! Inspiration.  The Matzo Ball Boy was born.  With lovely deep reds and oranges, chicken soup yellows, and forest greens, we read the story of a childless bube, who is preparing for a lonely Passover meal.  A shanda.  When, oy, her matzo ball comes alive.  A Matzo Boy Boy is born. Boy, Shmoy he tells her.  He is a man, and off to make his way in the world and not in a soup bowl.  He runs and she gives chase.  As do the tailor, the rabbi, the yenta, and a wolf that is not as smart as he thought.  In the forest, the matzo ball boy gets tired and hungry; he meets up with a poor man who isn't interested in giving chase.  Let all who are hungry come and eat, so the boy comes to the poor man's cottage.  When the matzo ball boy leans over to check out the poor family's soup...  This humorous tale is a must have for your seder table or bookcase.  Includes not a \\"glass tea\\" but something better, a glossary of 14 Jewish words	2005-03-13
US	49956909	R24OO80A0HU9IW	0689852320	331497477	A Pickles Passover	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Red Sea parted with a hair comb?  Did the slaves use lego?	Grandpa Boris and Minka lead the Passover seder for Tommy and all the babies and adults, who are there as family and guests.  As Boris tells the story, Chuckie wisely wonders, if the Hebrews were in such a hurry to flee Egypt, why they didn't just get fast food at the local Matzoh King.  Lil ponders if bitter herbs are like yucky medicine.  Angelica mutters that charoses must taste like sticky glue.  Look at the illustrations: the pyramids are being built by Hebrew slaves from large lego blocks, and the Egyptians open umbrellas to shield themselves from the plague of frogs and vermin.  Part the Red Sea?  Chuckie, obviously a wise child, imagines that the sea is being PARTED with a very large hair comb.  In the last half of the book, the babies search for the Afikomen (or is it Afiko-women if Angelica finds it?)	2005-03-13
US	49956909	R1OTXGWTHL9IDX	0226239683	920488774	Nixon at the Movies: A Book about Belief	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Siskel, Ebert, and Nixon?	Did Nixon miss his calling?  Should he have been a Hollywood film reviewer?  Nixon was born near Hollywood, where characters were reshaped and manufactured, in 1913, the same year that Hollywood produced its first film, Cecil B. DeMille's \\"The Squaw Man.\\"  In a time before DVD's and VHS/Betamax (when \\"R\\" rating meant Regular, not Restricted (hehe)), he watched 538 films during his 67 months in the Presidency (not counting his Vice Presidency under Eisenhower); he was screening about two 35mm films per week, sitting in a darkened room.  But aside telling us that Nixon viewed PATTON three times during the VietNam War and Cambodian incursion (both Patton and Nixon suffered the indignities of serving under Eisenhower), or that he loved the works of John FOrd, and in his last White House years, more classic films were selected for him, the author creates a fascinating portrayal of Nixon and a cultural history of America's hopes and dreams and myths and realities, specifically through the metaphors of some of the following films: THE CONVERSATION (1974, Gene Hackman is filled with guilt and secrets, hidden away); PATTON (1970, war, leadership, and Eisenhower); MISTER ROBERTS (1955, the banality of being an administrator); DARK VICTORY (1939, Reagan plays a playboy as Bette David is dying and George Brent is trying to sure her, contrasting Nixon's ambitions to those of a playboy); and DOUBLE INDEMNITY (1944, growing up in Southern California)	2004-12-24
US	49956909	R15SUYSPKEL1U5	2856166296	60551631	Le mirador: Mémoires rêvés (French Edition)	Books	4	8	8	N	N	The biography of Irene Nemirovsky by her daughter	This is the French language biography of the French author Irene Nemirovsky, written by one of her two daughters who survived WWII.  Her daughters have kept her works and memory alive.  Nemirovsky was a Jewish woman, born in the Ukraine, who moved as a child to Paris with her family.  Her novel, DAVID GOLDER, was published in 1929, and became a critical and economic success.  It was the story of a Jewish banker, his wife and daughter.  It bacame a play and a film.  In 1940, when Germany occupied France, her family fled to the countryside.  But in 1942, Irene was arrested by French police and deported to Auschwitz, where she quickly died.  Her husband, Michel Epstein, was gassed there.  But her two daughters were hidden and survived the war with a suitcase of their mother's papers, written so small that a magnifying glass was needed to decode it.  In this book (THE WATCHTOWER), one of Irene's daughters tells the story of the family, the suitcase, and her mother's murder.  In the Fall of 2004, 62 years after Irene Nemirovsky's murder, her final work was published in France where it won the top literary prize and is a best seller.  It will be available for sale from Knopf on Amazon in Fall 2006.	2004-11-29
US	49956909	R2U4JMV05O170F	1565124200	544617661	The Unthinkable Thoughts of Jacob Green	Books	4	7	7	N	N	every word a jewel.. polish it (off)	What sort of insane family did Zach and Jacob Braff grow up in?  Actor Zach wrote and starred in the film GARDEN STATE which has a distant Jewish father; and now his older brother has written this novel, a coming of age tale set in an Orthodox Jewish New Jersey family with a Jewish father who craves attention without end, and rages more than a rage-a-holic.  Not even EST can calm him.  Assuming there might be a kernel of truth in this book, a word to the wise.  If you ever meet either Braff brothers, don't go near their Challahs. God knows where its been or what nefarious bonking they did with it.<br /><br />It's 1977, Jacob Green, a Jewish kid from suburban New Jersey, sits on the stairs during his family's housewarming party, waiting for his father, Abram to introduce him to the crowd - who already knows him - as the favorite lovely blonde son.  Parties punctuate the family's life, but so do the rages (if only they were raves)  of Daddy Dearest, Abram Green.  He is a tyrant, filled with rage and a penchant for rules and tearing clothes that are not perfect.  In order to escape, Jacob thinks hilarious thoughts.  He fantasizes about sex ed with the live-in nanny; he fantasizes about his challah.  His bar mitzvah thank you notes, if they weren't proofed, would detail his lust for the nanny.  Sadly they are filled with spelling errors, since Jacob has a learning challenge.  If only his mother hadn't chosen grad school over the kids.  Why couldn't it be Jacob who got expelled from Hebrew School.  His older brother, Asher, was expelled for drawing his rabbi in a threesome with an erect pig and a tasty lobster  (plus there was the one with the (...).  You get the idea?  The book is a fun read with outrageous and outlandish antics and fantasies.  As the tension builds, you wonder whther Jacob can confront his father and tell him he doesn't want to sing in synagogues anymore.  Can he be a perfect son to his demanding father?  Is it any surprise that a key scene is played out around the Shabbat of Parshat Naso, a torah reading that refers to two brothers, Judah being superior to Benjamin, a wife accused of adultery, and how bitterness or bitter waters can ruin a marriage and a family.  The book is worth a read even if you only read Jacob's highly creative thank you notes for his Bar Mitzvah gifts.d the Shabbat of Parshat Naso, a torah reading that refers to two brothers, Judah being superior to Benjamin, a wife accused of adultery, and how bitterness or bitter waters can ruin a marriage and a family.  The book is worth a read even if you only read Jacob's highly creative thank you notes for his Bar Mitzvah gifts.	2004-11-13
US	49956909	R36KZKLHJOII3K	1579652107	480073126	A Blessing of Bread: The Many Rich Traditions of Jewish Bread Baking Around the World	Books	5	101	105	N	N	manna from heaven	The author is a certified, award winning baker who knows that there is more than one way to braid a challah.  Included in this book of oral histories, historical notes, and bread related anecdotes and folk stories, are the best discussions I have read of Jewish bread and challah histories, as well as fascinating recipes.  It is manna min shama-yim.<br /><br />The book opens with an intro on challah and bread, and an indexed listing of recipes by type of bread (including holiday breads, 6-hour or less breads, crusty breads, flavorful breads, etc.)  This is followed by a chapter on the Genesis of Challah; and a Primer on bread preparation (fermenting, punching, kneading, dividing, proofing, glazing, etc.)  There is even a chapter just for a mixed multitude of challah braids and shapes with step by step braiding photos, including instructions for a hand challah, a shlissel (key) challah, a string of pearls challah, and a ladder challah also.  There are then chapters for bread recipes of the Ashkenazi, Sephardi, North African, Near Eastern, and New Tradition Jewish people.<br /><br />Among the best recipes are ones for -- Ashkenazi: Czernowitzer Challah, Guatamalen Challah (with cardamon), Russian Challah, a ring challah, a Lithuanian Challah (no eggs, low sugar), bagels, a babka, rye bread, Lekach honey cake, and Hungarian Makos; Sephardic: Churak of Rhodes, Greek Rolls with Zante currants, Salonika style country bread, Pande Calabazi Pumpkin Bread, and Roscas with cloves; North African: Ethiopian Bereketei Sabbath Bread, Moroccan Purim Bread (chubzei), some Muffleta just for Mimouna, and Egyptian Rarifal Rarif; and Near Eastern: Iranian Barbari, various pitas, Azerbaijani Noon, Bukharan Nooni, Yemeni Kubana, Lachuch, and Samneh.	2004-10-25
US	49956909	R3LPCPYO3WNK0T	0618509283	528177434	The Plot Against America: A Novel	Books	5	27	40	N	N	Will America go Fascist w/ Lindbergh? All politics are local	Although well reviewed around the country, The NYT reviewer, Michiku Kakutani, called it a little contrived and \\"provocative but lumpy.\\"  All I can tell you is that she read it from a set of eyes that are not mine.  I found it provocative, metaphorical, believable, gripping, and impelling.  It was amazing to read this during the RNC Convention, this Summer. Shudder. The book opens in 1940. June. (or is it 2004?). A seven year old Philip Roth, his older brother, and his parents are living in a small Newark apartment in a Jewish neighborhood.  Philip's father is selling insurance for Met Life; he declines an offer for a position in management, which would require him to manage some drunk salespeople and move his family to a non-Jewish area of NJ.  It is 1940, Europe is at war with Hitler, and Lindbergh receives the deadlocked Republican nomination for the presidency on a hot night.  As the family glues itself to the radio, Lindbergh, who has blamed the Jews for the war, beats FDR for the presidency, and the US declares its neutrality.  And so opens this delicious novel, told through the eyes of 7 to 9 year old Philip Roth from the perspective of his family and his child-like imaginative fears: does his mother run off or did she just go to a neighbor's; Does his father die, or was it a neighbor; How did his neighbor die; How did his cousin really lose a limb?<br /><br />As the chapters progress, more and more Washington policies and attitudes impact on the Newark family. Best among the chapters is LOUDMOUTH JEW, in which the Roth family visits Washington DC right after Lindbergh has entered the White House.  You will just cringe as the sentences crash over you.  Roth delivers powerful, supremely crafted sentences.  His portrayal of splits in families and the Jewish leadership are on target.  Lindbergh smartly sets up JUST FOLKS, to absorb and assimilate Jewish youth into Christian America, and perhaps create spies and splits in families.  It reminded me of the film CSA (Confederate States of America, in which the Confederacy wins and they send Jews to Canada and set up a Jewish reservation on Long Island).  Philip's family becomes a microcosm for the nation, as his brother, a celebrity-enamoured Aunt, and Lindbergh-befriending rabbi side with Lindbergh; his cousin is maimed in the war, fighting for Canada, and Philip's father, Herman, remains committed against Lindbergh.  Roth wisely puts a bitter, injured nephew, as well as a Lindbergh loving son, all living under Herman Roth's roof.SA (Confederate States of America, in which the Confederacy wins and they send Jews to Canada and set up a Jewish reservation on Long Island).  Philip's family becomes a microcosm for the nation, as his brother, a celebrity-enamoured Aunt, and Lindbergh-befriending rabbi side with Lindbergh; his cousin is maimed in the war, fighting for Canada, and Philip's father, Herman, remains committed against Lindbergh.  Roth wisely puts a bitter, injured nephew, as well as a Lindbergh loving son, all living under Herman Roth's roof.	2004-10-02
US	49956909	RYU577OU5FPZ3	0316159727	155551008	Yiddish with Dick and Jane	Books	5	46	48	N	N	a shanda?  no way.. it's a mechayeh	In 1927, Dick and Jane began to teach American kids to read through repetition.  So, nu? Vo den? Who knew they knew Yiddish, too?  I am sure their parents could schep nachas had they known.  I know what you're thinking.  Oh, some fancy schmancy authors sprinkled Dick and Jane with a smattering of Yiddish.  Schtuss.  You'd be tsedreyt in kop if you think that way.  This \\"primer\\" has a very interesting and surprising plot.  In this retelling of a tale, Jane shines and doesn't play second fiddle to Dick.  Jane is married to a mensch, Bob, and they have two lovely kids, as well as a dog and cat.  Bob is a tad naïve.  Jane works in real estate with her boss Stanley, and Stanley is very good at staging homes for sale.  Dick is also married with kids, and loves to golf with Tom.  Tom has a penchant golf clubs.  Now an adult, Sally has moved out to Berkeley, where she is a confident feminist, but she has tsurris.  But who doesn't?  Even the Jamaican nursemaid the family hires for mom has tsurris (and some good herbs).  So do yourself a favor.  Order in some Chinese, and read this primer with the whole mishpacha.  The authors, one of whom worked for National Lampoon, include a 20 page glossary of terms which is as good as the story text.	2004-09-22
US	49956909	R6CG511852J96	1932360271	481334684	Father Said: Poems	Books	5	2	2	N	N	gems to be savored	Hal Sirowitz, the former Poet Laureate of Queens (who now lives in another boro), offers us this funny look at his father's sayings and life philosophy.  It is a follow up to \\"Mother Said\\" and \\"My Therapist Said.\\"  Just as Sedaris is better read with a  Carolina accent, these are better read with a dry, montone, slightly whiny Queens accent.<br /><br />In one poem:<br /><br />When your mother tells me don't I think /<br /><br />it's time we got a better washing machine, /<br /><br />Father said, I tell her, Let it decide. /<br /><br />If it breaks down, we'll get a better one.<br /><br />Or his father compares the young Hal to ants<br /><br />(\\"I've never seen them being idle. I /<br /><br />wish I could say the same thing about you\\"),<br /><br />He writes, \\"The only/ good thing about dying is that I / won't be around if something goes wrong./ You'll have to take care of it.\\"<br /><br />In \\"Saluting The Bull\\", Hal's father feels for the bull in a bullfight, one that did not deserve an early death after having a stranger wave its least favorite color in front of its face, trying to make it look silly.  In \\"The Lost Friend\\", his father recounts a game of hide and seek, in which he never found his friend.  He hopes one day, now decades later, that he will find him.<br /><br />Nearly all are gems to be savored.	2004-08-28
US	49956909	R18LL2KQQASIW9	0439208645	909805641	If I Were in Charge the Rules Would Be Different	Books	5	1	1	N	N	wacky, witty, loony and fun	fabulous poems of great importance, such as one about asparagus, and one about getting even with Milton the Bully.  \\"Little Help\\", is about a belly button's call for help in its first poem it ever WROTE, since it has no vocal chords or THROAT. It HINTs at the accumulated LINT.  In \\"Halloween Logic,\\" a boy and girl decide to swap roles; it will work out DANDY for more CANDY. The author ponders if there is a FishCat, since there is a CatFish; or if clown college has homework, and if the goofs get A's and the wise get F's. Who are the honor students?	2004-08-28
US	49956909	R21C0UY0P6UMOP	1400050162	213662352	Trump: The Way to the Top: The Best Business Advice I Ever Received	Books	4	33	34	N	N	Advice ranging from the pithy to the useful	You can't tell a book by its cover, a firm by its balance sheet, but perhaps you can tell a corporation by its leadership. At first, I bypassed this book, thinking it was a diatribe by an obsessively adolescent PR-hound CEO. But I was wrong. Trump, with his attorney, Bernard Diamond, and coordinator, Norma Foerderer, has leveraged contacts, friendships and clout, and collected pearls and 'zirconias' of wisdom from over 153 business leaders. Most are a single paragraph or two, and are arranged alphabetically; it starts with George Abercrombie (CEO of Roche NA Pharmaceuticals Operations) and ends with George Zimmer (CEO of the Men's Wearhouse). Trump implores the readers to learn from their own experiences, as well as the experiences of these leaders.<br /><br /> Abercrombie, who started as a Pharmacist, reminds the readers to put themselves in the shoes of the customer, be honest, and don't sugar coat the truth. Adam Aron of Vail Resorts advice is to deal with honorable people (easier said than done), since not even good contracts will shield you from bad people with bad intentions. The head of 1-800-mattress says \\"trust but verify\\" and tells the story of what happens when you believe your own ad copy and you don't actually go to see your products up close and personal.<br /><br /> The one failure of the book is it fails to get deep into the leaders' businesses; it skims the surface, like a skipping stone on a lake of advice. George Arpey of American Airlines, for example, says to be \\"leary of loans.\\" Why? There is no discussion of how loans and debt loads affected American Airlines' balance sheet and its ability to compete. Cathie Black of Hearst Magazines correctly tells the reader to fugure out who they are and be true to \\"who you are all the time.\\" I have read that she definitely is.  But the book doesn't mention that since she is herself all the time, and what you see is what you get, that she has a had long string of successes coupled with a long line of enemies and casualties.<br /><br /> Some advice is useful, other bits if wisdom are, well, less so. Fatima Goldman advices you to \\"say good morning.\\" Simon Bergson learned from his father (who survived 3 death camps before coming to America) to \\"work hard.\\" Mark Brown of Trump Casinos says to bet on people, not on strategies. Good advice. But given the loses at his casinos, some strategy wouldn't hurt. The late McDonald's CEO, Jim Cantalupo, wrote that Ray Kroc told him to focus on the customers' desires, satisfaction, and top line, and the bottom line will take care of itself. Barbara Corcoran contributes a 10 page essay that is worth the read.<br /><br /> Some of the best lines are: Terry Lundgren (Federated Dept Stores) to \\"bloom where you are planted:; Brad Martin's (Saks) to :tell the truth and keep it simple,\\" Parker Kennedy (First American) that everyone should \\"have the skills of a salesman\\" since nothing happens til the sale is made; and Fred Smith of FedEx who imparts the best advice, saying, \\"The secret of having a good business is to be in a good business.\\"es.      Some advice is useful, other bits if wisdom are, well, less so. Fatima Goldman advices you to \\"say good morning.\\" Simon Bergson learned from his father (who survived 3 death camps before coming to America) to \\"work hard.\\" Mark Brown of Trump Casinos says to bet on people, not on strategies. Good advice. But given the loses at his casinos, some strategy wouldn't hurt. The late McDonald's CEO, Jim Cantalupo, wrote that Ray Kroc told him to focus on the customers' desires, satisfaction, and top line, and the bottom line will take care of itself. Barbara Corcoran contributes a 10 page essay that is worth the read.      Some of the best lines are: Terry Lundgren (Federated Dept Stores) to \\"bloom where you are planted:; Brad Martin's (Saks) to :tell the truth and keep it simple,\\" Parker Kennedy (First American) that everyone should \\"have the skills of a salesman\\" since nothing happens til the sale is made; and Fred Smith of FedEx who imparts the best advice, saying, \\"The secret of having a good business is to be in a good business.\\"	2004-08-04
US	49956909	RAUQKNHWP673Q	0618251413	665949938	Count Down: Six Kids Vie for Glory at the World's Toughest Math Competition	Books	5	3	4	N	N	enjoyable read = f(interesting, riveting, informative)	I once worked with a man who could look at a sheet of numbers and find an error within a few seconds.  He said he could visualize the numbers and their patterns in his head.  He was the adult version of the nearly 500,000 kids who annually tryout for the Math Olympiad.  In 2002, SPELLBOUND, an extremely entertaining film hit the festival circuit, and followed eight boys and girls from regional spelling bees to the national spelling bee competition in Washington.  In this book, Steve Olson changes the medium from film to paper, and the competition from spelling bees to mathematics, and the result is an entertaining, alluring, and riveting read about young men (of 119 U.S. team members, only 1 was female), math reasoning, and math problems in an international competition in Northern Virginia (don't worry, the six math solutions are in an appendix). Olson, who has written about genomics, genetics, and the state of science education in American schools, also adds covincing arguments in the book about the education systems' onerous failures to teach math properly, and he is uniquely qualified to discuss whether these kids are products of math nurturing or genetic nature.  The key players in this book are the six immigrant-heavy members of the U.S. 2001 team: Oaz Nir (a poet who had already won a gold medal and is now at Duke); Gabriel Carroll (who also had won a gold medalist at a past competition and is now at Harvard); Tiankai Liu (still in high school); Ian Le (now at Harvard); David Shin (now at MIT); and Reid Barton (who had won 3 gold medals at past cometitions, now at MIT).  Other key players in the book are the team's coach, Titu Andreescu, and Melanie Wood, the team guide.  The book provided nto only an enjoyable read, but some very good insights into creative problem solving methods when time is crucial.	2004-05-11
US	49956909	RCLTKY9ZDEX02	1889330167	85991399	World Famous Love Acts	Books	5	7	10	N	N	unique and disturbingly entertaining	Leung, a teacher at California State University Northridge and recipient of the Mary McCarthy Prize for Short Fiction has written this collection of well-crafted narratives with unique characters in well-constructed settings.  At a time when so many stories are hyped and filled with the antics of celebutantes, it is refreshing to read about singular characters who are far from clich&eacute;.  The author wields his adjectives the way a surgeon controls a scalpel.  His descriptions of the California skies and landscapes are hallowed and resplendent.  Some stories are like grenades.  The full impact of the scenes did not hit me until a few minutes after finishing each story's final paragraph.  The collection's title suggests that the stories are about love, yet the cover art is of a noose.  The stories concern quiet, unspoken, suppressed loves and losses of a different sort - the type with inner conversations that are never vocalized.  Some characters think they are filled with insights, but actually know nothing; and others who long for connections with other people, even though those people are standing next to them in the same room.  So much is conveyed in the silences between the stories' vulnerable characters.  In one story, the people who walk across hot coals of a firewalk numb themselves to the feelings and truth, just as family members do in everyday life.  In another story, a family that never speaks what they fell in meaningful words, ponder whether they have to put their pet \\"to sleep.\\" In another, an aging archeologist is more at home digging up buried artifacts or leaving them buried than digging up her own family memories.  In my favorite, \\"White Hand,\\" a son who is trying to be devoted feels that he is a tourist in his own culture.  He goes through the motions, but like a reptile, is it just a skin that will be shed?	2004-05-10
US	49956909	RD1H3W6ARNZDB	0933477147	604951059	The Great Bagel and Lox Book	Books	5	1	2	N	N	A breakfast table book instead of a coffee table book	Alan \\"Battman\\" Batt has been photographing New York City and food for over two decades. This is more a breakfast table book than a coffee table book.  It is filled with various renditions of the classic bagel and lox sandwich from some of the top chefs in New York City.  Each photo can be a poster or calendar, and it really makes you not only salivate, but helps you to get your creative juices flowing by presenting a classic item in a new and unexpected way.  My explanations cannot due any justice to the beauty and creativity of the actual photos, which is a must purchase, but included in the book are renditions by Gabriel Kreuther (Atalier) with lox on a bed of thinly sliced cucumbers; Rachel D'Amico (nicematin) with a smoked salmon nicoise that rises as a cylinder from a bagel hole, surrounded by quail eggs and sliced olives; Anito Lo (annisa) with a salmon sashimi and wasabi; Scott Romano (kitchen22) with salmon gravlax and crisp salmon skin cut in the shape of a sliced bagel; Amanda Freitag (`cesca) with lox and mascarpone on a ciabatta, photographed in front of a wood burning oven; Nichola Type (f+b gudtfood) with a lox hotdog in a bun topped with caviar and creme fraiche; Nitzan Raz (sushi samba) with a thin foot long cahaca-cured salmon and cream cheese espuma on a spicy yucca cracker, with the salmon folded like the undulating waves of an ocean.  Joseph Cacaca (changa) presents us with a tequila cured salmon on a bagel shaped baked flour tortilla; and Florian Bellanger (fauchon paris) places lox on a croissant.<br />Elana Didier (alain ducasse) presents small circles of lox and one rectangular slice of a poppy seeded bagel; Vinny Scotto (gonzo) uses a bruschetta with robiola; and Jake Klein's (pulse) rendition is like a still life of bagel chips, lox, and three doctor brown's sodas. Some other photos include David Pasterack (esca) with a white salmon carpaccio sans bagel; Chueng-Hue Yang (mrk's) sculpted carrot rendition; and Stephan Lewandowski (tribeca grill) has salmon on latkas with fennel compote.  Dannis Fitzgerald (remi) presents several types of bagels with lox, tuna, halibut, and spinach puree; Steven Duong (nam) has sticky rice with lox, fish sauce, spices, and mung beans; Greg Brainan (jean georges) uses smoked salmon gelee; Chris Geswaldi (montrachet) uses a cream cheese emulsion with dill oil and seaweed; John's Pizza makes a lox pizza; Kirti Pant (tamarind) has salmon fillet on naan and tandoori marinade; and in one of the best photos, Dan Silverman (lever house) creates a whole salmon with head and tail filled sideways with several layers of slices of cream cheese and gravlax.<br />Other highlights include executions from The Fours Seasons, Petrossian Paris, The River Caf&eacute; (but with oysters), Le Bernardin, Ida Mae, Nobu, RM, Bobby Flay's Mesa Grill, and Jacques Torres' chocolate creation that mimics lox and bagels with molded white and dark chocolate ganache and strawberry fruit leather. My favorite is either Ari Nieminen (caf&eacute; des artistes) with his layers of lox displayed on the naked body of Ms. Jaeme Griffin, or Wayne Nish (march) with the classic bagel and lox deli style sandwich.  But I am sure you will find others as find your faves in this creatively executed book.ll) has salmon on latkas with fennel compote.  Dannis Fitzgerald (remi) presents several types of bagels with lox, tuna, halibut, and spinach puree; Steven Duong (nam) has sticky rice with lox, fish sauce, spices, and mung beans; Greg Brainan (jean georges) uses smoked salmon gelee; Chris Geswaldi (montrachet) uses a cream cheese emulsion with dill oil and seaweed; John's Pizza makes a lox pizza; Kirti Pant (tamarind) has salmon fillet on naan and tandoori marinade; and in one of the best photos, Dan Silverman (lever house) creates a whole salmon with head and tail filled sideways with several layers of slices of cream cheese and gravlax.<br />Other highlights include executions from The Fours Seasons, Petrossian Paris, The River Café (but with oysters), Le Bernardin, Ida Mae, Nobu, RM, Bobby Flay's Mesa Grill, and Jacques Torres' chocolate creation that mimics lox and bagels with molded white and dark chocolate ganache and strawberry fruit leather. My favorite is either Ari Nieminen (café des artistes) with his layers of lox displayed on the naked body of Ms. Jaeme Griffin, or Wayne Nish (march) with the classic bagel and lox deli style sandwich.  But I am sure you will find others as find your faves in this creatively executed book.	2004-05-09
US	49956909	R1YUOF4WO37YJV	1579123678	992620602	Patents: Ingenious Inventions, How they work and How they came to be	Books	5	3	5	N	N	fun, interesting, educational, and fun	The first thing that attracts you to this book is its cover, which is half ensconced in a thin layer of a laminated cushioning material (also known as bubble wrap, Patent Number 3,142,599; July 28, 1964 granted to M. A. Chavannes of Brooklyn, for a method of making bubble wrap).  This book celebrates a few of the 6.5 million patents that the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office has granted since Thomas Jefferson issued the first one in 1790.  For each patent, Mr. Ikenson provides that patent name, number, date, the person granted the patent (not always the inventor) and the assignee of the patent, if necessary.  These are followed by explanations and drawings about what the item does, how it works, and then a statement in the inventor's own words.<br />Included in this book are dynamite, the artificial heart, the airplane (wright), camera (wolcott), helicopter (sikorsky), cotton gin (whitney, 1794), gas motor engine (otto), light bulb (edison, glowing filament in a glass globe), neutronic/nuclear reactor (fermi and szilard), penicillin production method (moyer), transistor (shockley), rocket (goddard), skyscraper steel (bessemer), and most importantly, the Lava Lamp (walker, 1971).<br />Along the way, you will notice how some of the corporate names now popular are based on companies that were created around the inventor and patent, such as rubber vulcanization (goodyear), frozen food (birdseye), door lock (yale, 1844)and corn flakes process (kellogg, 1919).  Additional patents include ones for the chia pet (1994), traffic signal (1923), bra, astro turf, kitty litter, adhesive bandage (bandaid, assigned to johnson and johnson in 1958), zipper (1893), velsro (155), prozac, viagra, kevlar, pez dispenser (and how it works), slinky, roller skates , bar codes, and barbed wire, to name just a few.	2004-05-09
US	49956909	R1DDHXKI44IZ6U	9657108497	656879592	The Holistic Haggadah: How Will You Be Different This Passover Night? Traditional Haggadah with Original Commentary	Books	5	28	28	N	N	A source of Deepening meanings for your Seder and Nisan	How many Haggadah's that you know of mention the film, The Matrix ?  Urim publications has created another winning haggadah.  The holistic Haggadah includes readings and insights that will make your seder better and more interesting.  Technically, this haggadah moves right to left with a full Hebrew text in a very nice, voweled font, with English translations, but no transliterations.  It has at least twice as much  explanations as your average haggadah.  It also includes translations of Hallel and Blessings over the Meal (the source of food and nourishment) by that holistic big-daddy, Rabbi Zalman Schachter-Shalomi.  The theme of this haggadah is \\"How will YOU be different this Passover night?\\"  More than a 12 step program approach to Passover, it reinforces Pesach as the Spring holiday that regenerates yourself for the coming planting season, rids your home of leavened bread, and rids you of that yeasty, puffy, poori-like inflated ego.<br />Each section of the seder contains commentaries under the headings of \\"BEING\\" and \\"DEEPENING.\\" Some holistic viewpoints that can be found in these sections of this haggadah are: The period between Purim and Passover as period akin to the month of Elul; The search for hametz as a search for one's inner spoilage, namely one's slavery to materialism, and fears of loss, success, and embarrassment; The burning of the hametz as a letting go of attachments; The candle lighting as the introduction of illumination and knowledge; The Seder as an ordering out of the chaotic hiddeness of Adar's Purim; and a silent Urhatz (washing without a prayer) as a sign of enslavement.  Other insights are the salty Karpas as a form of connection to your inner, narrow, Mitzraim; Yahatz as the broken self; the Four Questions as the call to hear the inner child; the treasures of Egypt as a choice to debasment or being true to oneself; and the Afikoman as... well you'll have to read the book for that precious tidbit. The traditional four sons are rendered as four children; in this case they are female.  The RaSha child is here \\"alienated\\" and not wicked (did you realize that the Haham, Rasha, Tam children spell the acronym of HeRut [freedom]?) There are so many ideas upon which your seder participants can expound.  And the ones above only scratch the surface.  This is highly recommended.as four children; in this case they are female.  The RaSha child is here \\"alienated\\" and not wicked (did you realize that the Haham, Rasha, Tam children spell the acronym of HeRut [freedom]?) There are so many ideas upon which your seder participants can expound.  And the ones above only scratch the surface.  This is highly recommended.	2004-04-02
US	49956909	RVJ79U0BQD0YA	0689863772	607003330	Duck for President (A Click, Clack Book)	Books	5	11	14	N	N	The DUCK Stops Here... Wins By A Beak	Ducks are popular, whether they hang out with typing cows or shill for AFLAC business risk insurance.  In this book, Duck reappears for our delight.  There are many chores on a farm, and Farmer Brown is tired. Sheep have to sweep, Moo'ing Cows Mow, and duck has many things to do including coffee prep.  So what's a disgruntled duck to do?  Run for office, of course.  Those who can, do; those who can't, run for office.  He is the kindler, gentler candidate.  When he wins in a landslide, or piggish mudslide, Duck finds out that RUNNING the farm is no easy task.  So he hits the road and runs for governor, finds chores there also, and then runs for higher office.  He even plays sax on late night tv.  All the while, with clever drawings that will also appeal to adults, Duck finds out that no job is without chores, until the final page.	2004-03-18
US	49956909	RZ1FSQYVKUYBO	0312326998	764840640	The Trouble with Islam: A Muslim's Call for Reform in Her Faith	Books	5	35	50	N	N	Muslim refusenik makes me a non-confusenik	The front cover art says it all? a woman?s mouth is silenced.  But that was the past.  Ms Manji?s book is filled with rants, but fantastic rants filled with angst (she frequently gets threatened, modern Muslim architecture negates local cultural influences), humor (martyrs are actually promised 72 hur/white raisins, not 72 virgins), advice (how to speak out, liberal Western Muslims should assert their ownership of the religion), and insight (the roots of literalism).  She joins a chorus of voices of Muslims who are questioning the strict, information hoarding leaders and teachers of their faith; she calls for a reformation or debate as profound as Martin Luther?s or Talmudists.  The twin towers Manji, 35, wants toppled are the towers of deceit and conceit.  She denounces the lack of intellectual diversity in mainstream Islam, and desires ITJIHAD (the struggle for critical independent thinking) over JIHAD. Ms. Manji is a daughter many would pray for: inquisitive, intelligent, but blunt.  As a teen, she confronted her teacher in a religion class who taught anti-Jewish ideas.  She quoted the Koran to contradict him.  She as expelled.  As an older teen, she spoke out against her extended family?s racism, use of slavery, and sexism.  It was decided she should not visit them in Uganda.  When threatened with physical abuse by a joyless parent, she fled to the roof.  Many readers will say she is not religiously observant or learned enough to question Islam.  Some will write her off for criticizing Muslim societies for allowing honor-killings, wife beatings, torturous clitorectomies; but this is a must read for any thinking person who wants to embrace both religion and the contemporary diverse world.	2004-02-11
US	49956909	R29OT1CIT72UCE	0786869496	569451063	Clinton & Me	Books	5	9	12	N	N	Hilarious, enlightening; dare i say 'Katzian'?	This book contains the painfully funny adventures of President Clinton's in-house joke writer.  Mark Katz, the son of an orthodontist, was the kid who cracked jokes from the back row of your seventh grade English class... but it was the Honors English class.  He was the class clown to the elite, not the student body masses.  He learned to self-edit all his jokes and only voice the best ones.  He grew up to write humor speeches for nation's Chief Seventh-Grader, Bill Clinton, as well as a top FOB Hollywood celebrity, Vice President Al Gore, Secretary of State Albright and others.  Katz's job was to write Clinton's funny responses to the crises of the moment.  Lines that are funnier than \\"I did not have sex with that woman.\\"<br />This book opens like all good business and political biographies.  There is a crisis the author must face.  Once overcome, the book starts at the author's birth and works forward to the opening episode.  In this book, the opening episode is stress-filled but humorously enlightening.  President and Mrs. Clinton are perturbed; Clinton's speech is minutes away, and Katz's jokes are not to the President's liking.  Will Katz buckle under Clinton's pressure or stand up for his jokes?  And will Clinton find something to nosh on as they talk?  When the story continues, we find Katz in his mother's womb. Yes, just as Clinton was influenced by JFK and shook the hand of JFK at the White House, Katz's life was affected by JFK, too.  Katz was nearly prematurely born when his pregnant mother was startled by JFK's assassination in 1963.<br />As a preteen, Katz was supporting McGovern in the way a kid could and rushing home from school to watch the Watergate hearings on PBS.  In high school, his jokes were getting him in trouble with the princiPAL, and in college he was writing a humor column. In his book we learn about the life of a grunt volunteer on the Dukakis campaign, his struggle up the campaign staff ladder, and the back-story of Dukakis' photo-op with the tank.  His stints in advertising in Manhattan and California, and his cross-country road trip are hilarious and bluntly honest.  Some stories are too honest.  How was Katz to know that his first boss would be the best friend of Katz's brother's litigious ex-fianc&eacute;, or that the sweater he borrowed from his brother for work was hers?  As Michael Waldman's book, \\"Podus Speaks,\\" verified, joke writers have strong egos and desires for exposure, in a world where copywriters and speechwriters are supposed to live in anonymity.  Katz deftly balanced between anonymity and exposure most of the time.<br />In mid-book, when Katz joins the emerging Clinton campaign and crashes on the couch of a guy named Stephanopoulos in Little Rock, we learn about the role of humor and the joke writer, the annual DC Winter roasts and dinners known, and gain insights into the machinations of the West Wing, OEOB, and VP's residence.  Katz also lists the jokes that never made it into the recorded speeches.  This is a delightful and necessary read during this primary and convention year.p with the tank.  His stints in advertising in Manhattan and California, and his cross-country road trip are hilarious and bluntly honest.  Some stories are too honest.  How was Katz to know that his first boss would be the best friend of Katz's brother's litigious ex-fiancé, or that the sweater he borrowed from his brother for work was hers?  As Michael Waldman's book, \\"Podus Speaks,\\" verified, joke writers have strong egos and desires for exposure, in a world where copywriters and speechwriters are supposed to live in anonymity.  Katz deftly balanced between anonymity and exposure most of the time. <br />In mid-book, when Katz joins the emerging Clinton campaign and crashes on the couch of a guy named Stephanopoulos in Little Rock, we learn about the role of humor and the joke writer, the annual DC Winter roasts and dinners known, and gain insights into the machinations of the West Wing, OEOB, and VP's residence.  Katz also lists the jokes that never made it into the recorded speeches.  This is a delightful and necessary read during this primary and convention year.	2004-02-06
US	49956909	R2EW3D888ES2R8	0804749086	14291318	A Guide to the Zohar	Books	5	174	177	N	N	accessible and understandable	There are many books on Kabbalah and the Zohar in English floating around these days, but this one is understandable, accessible, profound and academic.  Professor Green introduced Daniel Matt to Ms Pritzker, and got the ball rolling on the what probably will be a 15 year translation project for the Pritzker Edition of the Zohar.  This book is a companion that has been published in time to coincide with Volume 2 of the Pritzker edition.  When I opened Volume 2, and started with Parshat Lekh Lekha of the Zohar, I was lost after sentence two.  Green's book is an invaluable aid.  As promised on the back cover, Green unravels the historical and intellectual origins of the Zohar's rich text and provides an excellent introduction to its themes, complex symbolism, narrative structure, and language. Topics include: The Kabbalistic Tradition: A Brief History Until the Zohar; Teachings of the Kabbalists: The Ten Sefirot; The Zohar: Midrash on the Torah;  The Zohar Narrative; Mysticism of the Zohar;  The Zohar in Historical Context; Selected Themes within the Zohar: Creation and Origins, Between Worlds, Evil and the Demonic, Torah and Revelation, The Commandments, Avodah : The Life of Worship, The Tsaddiq and the Life of Piety, ....; The Question of Authorship; The Language of the Zohar; and the Influence and Canonization of the Zohar.  Chapter 5 on the narrative is a must read for anyone who dares to open a page of the Zohar.	2004-02-04
US	49956909	R2PPQKX44CQDD8	0786808829	251233293	Baby Einstein: The ABC's of Art	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Fun learning	For every two pages there is a work of art on the right page, and a letter in lower case and upper case form on the left.  The leftmost page also include a word appropriate to the work of art, a sentence, and a question for further investigation.  The words are age appropriate, like rainbow, cows. peacock, girl, and balloon.  Works of art include red balloon / BALLOON Rouge by Paul Klee; Young Boy with DOG by Picasso; Reading (GIRLS) by Renoir; Intitled (ICE CREAM CONE) by Warhol; Untitled (KITE) by Warhol; OCTOPUS by Calder; Pileated WOODPECKER by John J. Audobon; and Study for Homage to the Sqaure; Departing in YELLOW by Josef Albers.  Questions for investigation include, Can you think of three things in YELLOW?; What song is he playing on his VIOLIN?; Judging from the expression on the woman's face in the painting, what is the QUEEN feeling?; and What four colors do you see in this paintin of an OCTOPUS?	2004-01-10
US	49956909	R2787DBGUP50I4	1580082815	778071027	Growing up in a Korean Kitchen: A Cookbook	Books	4	46	47	N	N	an intro to classic Korean cooking	Many know Chinese, Thai and Japanese cuisine, eating it weekly, but few are familiar with or venture to cook Korean dishes.  This book should correct this gap.  The recipes in this book are influenced by royal Korean cuisine since they are based on the author's \\"Shin\\" family traditions, a clan that belonged to the Yangban family.  One of 12 children raised in her family's Chongju City \\"house\\", she was exposed to many large meals, and celebrations that fed over 100 guests at a time.  The book opens with a discussion of the Korean kitchen followed by a 15 page glossary of essential ingredients and utensils.  Because these are classic recipes, some are complicated.  This is followed by recipes for eleven essential sauces, such as a traditional soy sauce (kanjang) which takes 2 months to ferment.  The book has over 50 recipes for main dishes, including 10 kimchi's; pickled cucumbers; pickled ginger; 13 soups, including seaweed, rice cake, and t'ang soups; mandu; and chatjuk pine nut  porridge.  There are over 80 recipes for side dishes, including seasoned eggplant and spinach; sauteed kelp; green onion salad; and a chilled radish salad (my saengch'ae) which can easily replace cole slaw as an American picnic staple.  Stew recipes includes ones for tak tchim chicken stew and ch'aeso chongol vegetarian hotpot.  There are recipes for 11 barbecues, as well as kimchijon, pinchajon, and puch'ujon pancakes.  The book closes with several recipes for ceremonial dishes, desserts (including sighye punch and hwach'ae soup) and pori barley, ogote, yuja, ginseng, omija and ginger teas.  Finally, every few pages, the author includes a shaded box that expounds on childhood, culinary or cultural memories as they relate to the recipe and food staple.	2003-12-31
US	49956909	R7XNQ2V15SY3H	1401351905	986554251	Dangerous Company	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Tyro Scribbler Inks O.T.T. Boffo Click	As Bart writes, \\"the movie business does not attract reasonable people.\\"  This makes for tasty stories.  The tales are smarmy, entertaining and enlightening, but definitely not dangerous.  I would have titled this Mildly Menacing Deceitful Egos; in these stories one can witness why Hollywood is called tinseltown, since each character shimmers briefly and believes they are really platinum rather than cheap reflective plasticized aluminum.  Bart's characters could easily have become stock cliches, but happily, in his hands, they aren't. Most of the petulant characters are connected not by their Atkins diets, but by their ownership of homes on Starlight Terrace, a street that had its name changed from Rattery Lane, like an actress with a foreign sounding surname.  There are stories about actors, agents, writers, lawyers, producers, directors, studio execs, more lawyers, an MPAA rater, and husbands, wives, adopted kids, and lovers.  Most memorable are the stories of the aging actress who uses so much Botox, her director says she can no longer show facial expressions; her 60 year old agent who celebrated his birthday with a chemical peel that might melt his face in the LA sun; a rabbi who is more concerned that his MPAA-rater wife discusses curse words than the fact she is Catholic; the young agent and her younger boy-toy whom she uses for `recreation'; and her retiring mentor who reinforces the adage that successes have many fathers, and failures are orphans.  While these may be cautionary tales to some, to many others they will serve as appetizing enticements.	2003-12-31
US	49956909	R20V7ZAVWQDLPP	0786809043	653313522	Brundibar	Books	5	54	58	N	N	priceless	Over six decades ago, the opera Brundibar (Czech slang for bumblebee) was written.  When the writer (Adolf Hoffmeister) was imprisoned by the Nazis in Terezin, the opera he and Hans Krasa wrote was smuggled into the camp.  The children performed the opera; it kept their minds off the impending doom.  The Nazis even filmed one of the 55 performances for a propaganda film, showing Terezin to be a model city for the Jews.  Kushner and Sendak collaborated for over three years on this book, which recreates the opera in book form.  At one point, Sendak even tore up all his drawings and started over.  This is a masterpiece for children as well as adults.  The prose is lyrical in tempo and style; the drawings are exquisite.  The use of colored and Italian pencils evoke the crayons that the children of Terezin used (under the teaching direction of Friedl Dicker-Brandeis, who was deported to Terezin in 1942, and then murdered at Auschwitz in 1944.)  In the story, a brother and sister are sent by a doctor to the village's market square to fetch milk for their ill mother.  Here they meet the milkman, the baker, and the ice cream maker.  But without money, they can buy no milk.  They spy Brundibar, a children hating, loud, brash, mean, street musician, dressed in a Napoleon hat and old medal filled uniform.  With him around, they can make no money singing to pay for the milk.  But with the help of some talking animals and other children, they perform a lullaby and earn the needed funds to help their mother.  Brundibar is defeated (When performed as an opera, the children and audience understood that Brundibar represented their jailers.)  Adults will note the last page, in which Brundibar writes a final note.  Bullies and Brundibar vow to return one day.  The note is written on the replica of a crumbled invitation, the actual party invitation that the Nazis used to invite dignitaries and Red Cross officials in 1944 to the actual performances, replete with a dancing man with a Jewish star on his costume (who is recreated in the role of the doctor).ish star on his costume (who is recreated in the role of the doctor).	2003-11-30
US	49956909	R30RZLV8LBC3HP	0395665892	534581334	Magid Fasts for Ramadan	Books	4	5	8	N	N	a cute introduction for children	Set in modern Egypt, with subdued watercolors, the book tells the story of Magid, who at age 8, wants to fast for Ramadan.  His older sister, 12, is fasting, why can't he?  She glares at him when he voices his desire to fast like everyone else in the household.  The story realistically shows some sibling antagonisms. The story shows a close 3 generation family, waking early to eat and pray, making it through the day, and watching for the evening lanterns to be lit by the muezzin.  Magid feels great pride as he skips breakfast and then lunch.  He shows his openness to various levels of obedience when his friend Gamal informs him that Gamal's family is not into fasting.  Magid breaks his fast with a date, just as The Prophet did, and the next day he skips breakfast again.  But when he gets caught, he learns an important lesson.  Along the way we learn why they fast, read about their relatives in Cairo and Detroit, and understand more about the spirit of Ramadan.	2003-10-26
US	49956909	R2FMRC3JUIW53Z	0805241841	623750011	Living a Year of Kaddish: A Memoir	Books	5	18	18	N	N	a prayer renews him; a book renews you	When Ari Goldman was six, his parents divorced.  They were as different as the North and South poles.  Goldman remained part of each of their lives through his commitment to 1950's-style Orthodox Judaism.  In September 1999, Ari Goldman turned fifty.  He had a party.  The next morning he got a call.  His father, 77, was dead in Jerusalem. The funeral would be in a few hours, since Shabbat would soon begin in Israel.  Goldman tore his shirt and began to mourn.  He sat shiva for his father only one day, since Sukkot started the next day.  He went on to mourn for his father for the required 30 days, and then the full 11 months.  Ari inherited his father's tallit (which he wore and made his own).  In this memoir, he tells the reader about the people he touched and those who touched him during his year of saying kaddish.  He writes that while the kaddish will not bring back the dead, it will bind one to the community horizontally, and redeem a death vertically.  Ari finds that so many people have their own kaddish stories to share with him, and he shares some with us.  In this book, he knits a story being an \\"avel\\", of mourning, of loss (loss of parents, loss of one's regular seat in the synagogue).  He writes about mentoring, on modeling an upright life to his kids, and his brand of Fifties-style Judaism.  There are also asides on the various people he meets when he seeks out shuls in which to say kaddish on the road.  He explores his daughter's conflicts when she is forced to move to the women's side of the mechiza at the age 12.  He reflects upon the power of the kaddish and how the passage of time changes his approach to the prayer and the process.  He honestly asks himself why he tells people he is mourning.  Is it a badge on his lapel?  Is he seeking some sort of status? Comfort? Honor?  It is a story of loss, of growth, as well as the fascinating story of how his neighborhood shul became resurrected.	2003-08-27
US	49956909	R2EONJ13XQ4ONO	0312309031	821488385	The Between Boyfriends Book: A Collection of Cautiously Hopeful Essays	Books	5	21	26	N	N	fantasmic	I can say the love word... I need my SPACE (to read this), and I Love (the book).  Chupack, a writer for the Sex and The City television series has written this collection of essays on the pangs of dating and the single life.  She gives such great advice, that even her ex-husband comes to her for advice on his current relationships.  She makes up words; a few are: \\"lone rangered\\" (who was that masked man who broke up with me no goodbye); \\"RelocationShips\\" (moving for the chance of a good guy); \\"Man-me-downs\\"; Halloweenies (guys who break up at Halloween, so they don't have to date you during Thanksgiving and the December holidays); and \\"premature 'we'jaculation\\" (when one of you says \\"we\\" before the other is ready).  She writes about when a major magazine asked her to write about how to juggle men, when she wasn't even juggling one.  She asks, if you count the number of men you have been with, do you have to count the men from drunken frat college parties?  There is the story about the guy who had his doorman break up with her; there is the story of the guy who broke up with a woman on the account of her nose; and the story of each of her 17 awful dates that she went on (3 per week) in order to have one good 18th date.  She decided to ask her dates to bring a CD to trade, so at least if it is a bad date, you might get a bonus of a good CD.  When her date brought her ABBA, she dropped him and that idea fast.  Cindy tells about her 10 day fast in order to lose weight, well not really to lose weight, but well, who knows why she went on it.  You have to read it as if the character of Carrie from \\"Sex And The City\\" is reading it to you.  It is much funnier that way.  Nearly each story is less than 4 pages, so it is great for subway reading, or the beach (where the red flags are about swimming, not dating).  In addition to the stories and dating advice, we learn about fathers' obsessions with asking daughters, \\"How's the car?\\"; the frustration of (NOT) being chosen to be a bridesmaid; the skillful spins of agents; and the idea for karaoke-like bars that women can go to do open mike rants after their bad dates.a bridesmaid; the skillful spins of agents; and the idea for karaoke-like bars that women can go to do open mike rants after their bad dates.	2003-08-25
US	49956909	R3LIEID7V5AO15	0312309155	377456077	Seven Blessings: A Novel	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Bashert for you and your reading group	In seventh grade in Silver Spring, the author's teacher read an essay of her's aloud, and said Ms. King would one day be an author.  And behold.  The author lived in the yeshivish world of Jerusalem and resided with matchmakers.  After her dates, she would debrief with them, and listen to the other date debriefings they conducted.  Using this as experience, she has set out to write a transformative novel, a novel about searching for a bashert in life, in romance, and in the spiritual realm.  At the start of the novel, we meet two Jerusalem matchmakers.  Judy is a Rebbitzen with half a dozen kids.  She studies at a women's yeshiva where she is learning to have more confidence in her own opinions.  She is taking Torah (not Talmud) classes, looking for deeper meaning in life.  She interprets the story of the creation of Eve in light of her own role as a matchmaker.  Another matchmaker is Tsippi.  Her own marriage is not the best; asked a question about love, her husband is more focused on the Talmudic quote on love than on answering the question directly.  As her husband studies in the back, she works the counter at their makolet grocery store, keeping an eye out for single customers.  Into both their lives come Beth (Yenta Shprinza).  Beth is a 39 year old American virgin, never even been kissed, an independent Orthodox woman from Pittsburgh, the daughter of a man who sells vibrating furniture.  If only there would be some vibration in Beth's life.  No?  Having dated everyone in NYC, she has come to Jerusalem.  She lives among Mizrahi Jews, yet doesn't eat over their homes for fear that their standards of kashrut are not hers.  She volunteers to help hospitalized schizophrenics who believe they are biblical characters (in Jerusalem you either become an author of a prophet), and she has dropped out of her own bible study classes due to her anguish over the laws of sacrifice and other uncomfortable biblical practices.<br />Judy and Tsippi see Beth (or Bet) as a unique project.  When Tsippi sends her on a date with Akiva, a painter of houses (not canvases) and student of the Torah, Beth is hopeful.  They have good dates, have a Sabbath walk in the forest, but Akiva is afflicted by a disconcerting twitch.  Well twitch is polite.  It is an affliction that twitches his whole body like an earthquake; it is more like a seizure than a hic-cup filled sneeze.  Judy, on the other hand, sets Beth up with handsome, American, Binyamin, an artist and arrogant Ba'al Teshuva.  While no woman is pretty enough for him.  He paints landscapes, but adds a kitschy Hebrew letter or Torah scroll so that the painting will sell.  And, brother, let me tell you, the tourists gobble them up.  King writes about the dates between Beth, Akiva, and Binyamin; what will Beth decide?  She also writes about Jerusalem's foods, forests, windmills, and bus shelter arsons; the power of love in a nursing home among the near dead;  a rabbi who visits widows to brighten their pre-Shabbat spirits; the lives of women who date afflicted men; and the spiritual journeys of all the characters.<br />Move over Red Tent and Bee Season... this is the read for 2003.project.  When Tsippi sends her on a date with Akiva, a painter of houses (not canvases) and student of the Torah, Beth is hopeful.  They have good dates, have a Sabbath walk in the forest, but Akiva is afflicted by a disconcerting twitch.  Well twitch is polite.  It is an affliction that twitches his whole body like an earthquake; it is more like a seizure than a hic-cup filled sneeze.  Judy, on the other hand, sets Beth up with handsome, American, Binyamin, an artist and arrogant Ba'al Teshuva.  While no woman is pretty enough for him.  He paints landscapes, but adds a kitschy Hebrew letter or Torah scroll so that the painting will sell.  And, brother, let me tell you, the tourists gobble them up.  King writes about the dates between Beth, Akiva, and Binyamin; what will Beth decide?  She also writes about Jerusalem's foods, forests, windmills, and bus shelter arsons; the power of love in a nursing home among the near dead;  a rabbi who visits widows to brighten their pre-Shabbat spirits; the lives of women who date afflicted men; and the spiritual journeys of all the characters.  <br />Move over Red Tent and Bee Season... this is the read for 2003.	2003-08-23
US	49956909	R28OZABKDL2C8T	0670032328	394944678	America's Splendid Little Wars: A Short History of U.S. Military Engagements: 1975-2000	Books	4	6	9	N	N	an important book to read... &quot;splendid&quot;	The title of this book is taken from a quote by Secretary of State John Hay, who in 1898 called the quick war against Spain a &quot;splendid little war.&quot;  The U.S. gained parts of Cuba and the Philippines in addition to other territories.  But Secretary Hay was being ironic.  The splendid little war actually mired the U.S. in long term, drawn out conflicts with insurgents, guerillas and others.  (Just like the current quagmire in Iraq)  The book opens with the Mayaguez incident in May 1975 which was more about President Ford telling the world that America was not crippled than about rescuing a ship and crew from pirates.  It gives eleven more examples, including battles in Somalia, Iran, Lebanon, Libya, and the Gulf.  The book provides excellent brief analyses of the battles, failures, and victories.  Once your curiosity grows however, you should seek out more complex focused deeper analyses to get more of the political flavors of why the U.S. got involved.	2003-08-04
US	49956909	RBX3EOMJ0JI8E	0892391782	338211016	Chachaji's Cup	Books	4	5	5	N	N	love and memory and growing up	As Neel grows up, he gets involved in basketball and computer games.  He outgrows his great Uncle Chachaji's stories of old India. And as his uncle ages, Chachaji's stories trail off and are not the center of family attention.  Great Uncle Chachaji has a fragile cup that made it all the way from India and India's partition in 1947.  But Neel breaks the cup while rushing through the washing of dishes.  The next day, Uncle Chachaji, like the cup, breaks, and is taken to the hospital.  Should broken cups, like old men, be repaired, or just tucked away in the back of a bedroom closet?  Can a place be found for a cup that is no longer good for drinking tea?  And what about Uncle Chachaji?  Neel has a plan.	2003-07-19
US	49956909	R37RB65Y52CS9B	061809542X	454177999	Absolutely American: Four Years at West Point	Books	5	24	28	N	N	Huah!  and exhilarating	Turow's \\"One L\\" is still read by those interested in Harvard Law; Robinson's \\"Snapshots From Hell\\" is read by those curious about biz school; and Michael Lewis' \\"Liar's Poker\\" is skimmed by those intrigued by the hey day of Wall Street.  To this trilogy, I would add Lipsky's \\"Absolutely American.\\"  I became interested in Lipsky's stories from the U.S. Military Academy at West Point when his reports from there appeared in Rolling Stone magazine a few years ago.  His reportage profile a cross section of cadets, specifically from the G-4 Guppies, from Plebes to Yuks, Cows, and Firsties, their frustrations, their attitudes, their machismo, their failures, and their goals during a time when the Academy, like all institutions, was perpetually evolving.<br />Lipsky came for the chow, but stayed embedded for the whole story, rented a room in Highland Falls, off post (campus), and stayed a few years (1998-2002).  What other school gets diverse jocks and brains from all fifty states and territories, and forces them to work together and take leadership and honor seriously?  The reader is introduced to a cross section of students who sacrifice their material comforts.  Like a documentary film, you never know how it will turn out.  Who will \\"five and fly\\" to Wall Street and b-school, and who will commit to an army career?  Will the top students choose infantry or the more marketable aviation school?  Who will be huah, and who will turn cynical?  Who will be separated from the Academy?  How do these macho guys (and 15% women) bond and say goodbye?  When a football player cries after the Army-Navy game loss, Lipsky captures the depth of feeling towards the school and patriotic commitment.  The ability to order in pizza and Chinese takeout (especially on beer battered cod fish night), the purchases of condoms and beer, Gatorade addiction, the exposure and concealment of several scandals (US Air Force Academy, listen up), internet porn and chewing tobacco, and the dramatic aftermath of 9/11 on student attitudes are tracked as the stories progress.<br />Are there no atheists in fox holes?  Probably not, since Lipsky even captures in print the bar mitzvahs of two cadets, and the evangelical fervor of another.  While at other schools, faculty and tenure decisions are filled with intrigue; Lipsky shows how USMA faculty intrigue take on greater devastations when honor, duty, and the desire to fall on \\"grenades\\" for your platoon is involved.  While Hollywood might depict all the Plebes rallying around the Plebe who has problems passing a phys ed requirement or honor violation, we instead see the reality of shunnings among the cadets.  The book, like an indie film, unlike a Hollywood studio flic, doesn't beat you over the head with conclusions.  It presents the suspense, the stories, the mud, forced groupthink, and honor, and let's you draw conclusions on the future of the military, leadership, professionalism, and America.of 9/11 on student attitudes are tracked as the stories progress.  <br />Are there no atheists in fox holes?  Probably not, since Lipsky even captures in print the bar mitzvahs of two cadets, and the evangelical fervor of another.  While at other schools, faculty and tenure decisions are filled with intrigue; Lipsky shows how USMA faculty intrigue take on greater devastations when honor, duty, and the desire to fall on \\"grenades\\" for your platoon is involved.  While Hollywood might depict all the Plebes rallying around the Plebe who has problems passing a phys ed requirement or honor violation, we instead see the reality of shunnings among the cadets.  The book, like an indie film, unlike a Hollywood studio flic, doesn't beat you over the head with conclusions.  It presents the suspense, the stories, the mud, forced groupthink, and honor, and let's you draw conclusions on the future of the military, leadership, professionalism, and America.	2003-07-04
US	49956909	R24ML4O9HTB0YY	0375508082	427282004	Feeding a Yen: Savoring Local Specialties, from Kansas City to Cuzco	Books	5	8	9	N	N	better than XO Sauce	I read this book on a recent trip to Los Angeles, where I regrettably realized that Nate and Al's in Beverly Hills had better whitefish salad than Murray's in NYC.  When Calvin Trillin would visit his daughters in California, he used to take a dozen or two bagels with him from NYC, to tempt them back to the capital of authentic bialys and appetizing stores from the Southern California wastelands of sun dried tomato and bee pollen bagels.  What can one make of a world where a London fish and chips salesman uses matza meal to batter coat his fish, San Francisco style burritos are sold in Manhattan, NY Bagels are in LA, and great Chinese food can be found in Paris?  Calvin Trillin, in a series of essays (&quot;Magic Bagel&quot;, &quot;Grandfather Knows Best&quot;, &quot;Chinatown, Chinatown&quot;, etc), takes the reader on a very funny and enlightening trip around the world, as he finds the best local foods.  My faves were, he eats Chinese from Paris to Prague, he searches for the bagels of Hyman Perlmutter's Tanenbaum's bakery, and he explores the fish taco.	2003-06-08
US	49956909	R1K41C4GDDUYSW	0060082704	82200259	The Receiving: Reclaiming Jewish Women's Wisdom	Books	5	21	21	N	N	reading it is a good reclamation project for yourself	As a child, Rabbi Firestone loved the synagogue, until she was banished to the women's section by her father as she grew older.  Little did she know, at that time, that the women's section behind the curtain had an unshared wisdom.  In this book, she starts on the path of reclaiming Judaism's submerged female voice.  Like the Jewish Star of David, with one point going up to the heavens and another pointing to the ground, her book reclaims the sufficient wholeness of the sensuous earth and the spiritual in Jewish learning.  In each chapter, she chooses a notable Jewish female, and uses that person's life to explore Jewish thought.  At times the connections are tenuous, but the book works well.  In Chapter 1, we read about Hannah Rachel of Ludomir (1815-1905).  She was a scholar of the Talmud who was odiously pushed down by Jewish leaders and forced to marry.  Yet among the common Jews, she was a healer and counselor.  Using her life as an example, Firestone explores yichud or wholeness and the role of female leadership.  In Chapter 2, Bruriah (2nd Century CE), every Jewish woman's hero, is brought back to life.  In her post Hellenic period, this brilliant female scholar of the Talmud left her male counterparts in awe of her erudition.  But while some know just an inkling about Bruriah, Firestone successfully resurrects the stories of the brothel and the academy to show the role of Eros in Jewish philosophy.  Firestone discusses how women must bring both logic and sensuality, one's holy and erotic sides to both study and life.  In Chapter 3, we are introduced to Malkah of Belz (1780-1850), the wife of the Belzer Rebbe, Rabbi Shalom Rokeach.  She brought the divine to noble domestic activities and sat with her husband.  Her life is used as a platform for the discussion of kabbalistic branches.  In Chapter 4, Firestone tells the story of Asnat Barzani (17th Century), a leader of Kurdish Jews who became a Rosh Yeshiva in Mosul, who can serve as a role model today.  She would submerge herself in and surrender to a text, rather than just master it.  In Chapter 5, the story Dulcie of Worms, Rhineland (12th Century) is told.  She was murdered at age 26, and her life would have been forgotten had her husband, the Pietist / Kalonymous Rabbi Eleazar, not written her an eloquent eulogy. A young businesswoman, mother, firzogerin, prayer-mentor, and scholar, Dulcie's life is a catalyst for the discussion of Rashi's daughters, and the reclamation of darkness in order to be balanced.  In Chapter 6, you will meet the Yemenite Rabanit Leah Shar-abi of Jerusalem (1919-1978), who exemplified the art of putting one's vision into action, using the kabbalistic branches of creativity, energy, and deployed method. Her life and Psalm 90 are used by Firestone to teach one how to discover purpose.  By Chapter 7, the reader is ready to meet Francesca Sarah, of 16th Century Safed, and for that lesson, you must receive and read the book.ould submerge herself in and surrender to a text, rather than just master it.  In Chapter 5, the story Dulcie of Worms, Rhineland (12th Century) is told.  She was murdered at age 26, and her life would have been forgotten had her husband, the Pietist / Kalonymous Rabbi Eleazar, not written her an eloquent eulogy. A young businesswoman, mother, firzogerin, prayer-mentor, and scholar, Dulcie's life is a catalyst for the discussion of Rashi's daughters, and the reclamation of darkness in order to be balanced.  In Chapter 6, you will meet the Yemenite Rabanit Leah Shar-abi of Jerusalem (1919-1978), who exemplified the art of putting one's vision into action, using the kabbalistic branches of creativity, energy, and deployed method. Her life and Psalm 90 are used by Firestone to teach one how to discover purpose.  By Chapter 7, the reader is ready to meet Francesca Sarah, of 16th Century Safed, and for that lesson, you must receive and read the book.	2003-06-07
US	49956909	R1A7RCFY89X9EN	0060529539	720814364	Following Foo: (the electronic adventures of The Chestnut Man)	Books	5	15	17	N	N	I don't like roller coasters, but i sure do like this book	...It was on this evening that the actor/singer B.D. Wong and his talent agent partner, Richard Jackson, became fathers in Modesto, CA.  Their twin sons were born woefully, dangerously, nearly 3 months premature.  Over the next several months, Wong kept his ever increasing list of friends informed of the roller coaster progress, the ups and downs, through a series of emailed updates.  These introspective, mesmerizing, hopeful, honest emails got passed around, and have been compiled to create this book.  At times it elicits chuckles, sometimes you will thank god for unsung heroic healthcare workers, and at other times your eyes will well up with tears.  The book is an adventurous journey into fatherhood, Jewish and Chinese American families, medical miracles, social work, gynecology, as well as sprinkling asides into life in television and film acting, food, and parenting.<br />The words are presented in a variety of fonts and styles to add drama to the reading.  Graphics from the Milton Bradley games of Operation and Ka-boom also drive home some messages.  Wong also includes some of the songs he wrote, such as his ode to Poop.<br />The book is impossible to put down, as you hunger to learn whether first-born Boaz Dov Wong (Boaz: the swift, strong, hospitable, giving biblical character who rescues Ruth and fathers the line of King David; Dov: the quiet strength of a peaceful bear) and younger Jackson Foo Wong (Jackson/Yohanan: for his father's surname, graciousness of god; Foo: wealth, for his grandfather) will survive and thrive.  At the end of each update, Wong includes snippets of the emails responses he received from friends, family, nurses, and doctors, including other famous celebrity/parents, such as Joel Gray, Jane Kazmarek, Barbara Barry, Margaret Cho, Michelle Kwan, and John Lithgow. David Hirson, a playwright, wrote it best when he repsonded in an email to Wong, that each bulletin [was] \\"...melancholy, funny, spirited, rallying, sometimes buoyant, sometimes exhausting...\\"  For readers who need linear stories, start with Update 8; all other can begin with the Preface.times exhausting...\\"  For readers who need linear stories, start with Update 8; all other can begin with the Preface.	2003-05-27
US	49956909	R3I6V4Q9GXQRH1	0393020452	818432485	Coined By God: Words and Phrases That First Appear in English Translations of the Bible	Books	4	9	11	N	N	cute and enlightening.  and contains SEX!  ...	McQuain, a former researcher for William Safire's weekly On Language column in The Sunday New York Times, with Mr. Malless, have compiled a book of words in English that first appeared and were coined for the King James English translation version of the Bible. Words like Adoption, Treasure, Appetite, Liberty, First Fruits, Novelty, Nurse, Busybody, Land of Nod, \\"holier-than-thou\\", Crime, Cucumber (cucumeres), Ivory Tower, botch, brother's keeper, sex, \\"coat of many colors\\", bundle, bloodthirsty, and Sprinkler are included.  \\"Left wing\\", I had thought came from the French National Assembly.  But I was wrong, it was created as a term during the translation of 1 Maccabees  9:16.  \\"Stiff-necked\\" was also coined for the KJV (Act 7:51).  The word \\"irrevocable\\", was coined in order to translate a sentence in Ezekiel, derived from Latin for \\"may not be called back again.\\" The word was also briefly coined for the bible.  A fun quick read to review and review for any lexicon irregular.	2003-05-26
US	49956909	RIAOK3M7I27KP	0887766064	914039697	Building America	Books	5	0	0	N	N	for adults also	They say it's for pre-teens.  okay, but it's is also for adults.  The book opens with a timeline, beginning in 1520, and showing a variety of buildings over nearly 5 American centuries, from the Jamestown buildings to Harvard, old Philadelphia structures, prairie homes, the Capitol Building, tin ceilinged commercial buildings, train terminals, airports, the Chrysler Builing, and international and postmodern edifices.  The timeline ends 9/11/2001.  Each page is illustrated with buildings and their significant attributes.  Some standouts are: For the First Settlers section, there is the Adam Thoroughgood House of Norfolk VA, and the Stadt Huys city hall of NYC (1641-1703); For the Colonies section, Faneuil Hall (1762) and Redwood Library (1750); For the Revolution, Monticello is a standout; the Smithsonian and Haughwout's cast iron department store are examples of early 19th Century buildings; and the U.S., Oregon State, and Nebrasska State Capitol buildings show the edifices of power.  The Moorish Plum Street Temple and the Georgian style Christ Church stand as examples of American houses of worship; and McKim's Pennsylvania Station and the Mission Style Union Station are an examples of the American worship of transportation.  The buildings of the Columbian Exposition of 1893 get their own page, as do the representative works of Frank Lloyd Wright, Arts and Crafts, the Jazz Age; the International Style; and postmodernism.  A great quick intro the American architecture	2003-05-15
US	49956909	R3IS63EG5ZGG8L	0786803975	359774598	Wingwalker	Books	5	5	5	N	N	You can tell a book by its cover... it's beautiful	In large type (maybe 16 pt), with dusty 1930's illustrations, the authors recreate a prairie boy's life during The Great Depression.  Reuben, a small second grader, is called shrimp-boats by his classmates, and a scaredy cat by Mary Ellen, until he wins a ride in a barrel rolling, Curtiss Jenny barn storming bi plane.  His mother serves chicken a la king to truckers at the Lariat Caf&eacute;.  His father teaches dancing, and wears a silk handkerchief, just like the U.S. President.  But as the Depression continued, both his parents lose their jobs, and his father must find work with dangerous oil drilling rigs.  Reuben expects to start 3rd grade in his comfortable Oklahoma town, but his father loses his job, and must find work anywhere doing anything.  When he finds an ad for a wingwalker, the family leaves Oklahoma for a new adventure.  While his father works in the circus, more as a wing-dancer than a wing walker, Reuben must make new friends, and some are quite unusual, like the Tattooed Lady.  Traveling with the circus, they cross Minnesota, Wisconsin, Illinois, Indiana, Ohio, and Kentucky.  A sweet, quiet, timeless book for summer reading.	2003-05-15
US	49956909	R1M3FYQP188DHN	0374309981	699418534	Buddha  Boy (Bccb Blue Ribbon Fiction Books (Awards))	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Great book for all ages... or at least tweens	There are coming-of-age books that deal with some things that are simple -- like love and sex.  And then there are those that handle the harder topics - such as fighting cliques, going against the social order, or confronting inertia.  This book is in the latter category, and is more about Justin, than about Jinsen (the Buddha Boy).  Jinsen is harrassed daily by his classmates.  This is half high school tale and half mystery, as new facets of the chracters are revealed in each chapter.  There is also a dollop of karmic buddhism to give the story some uniqueness.  The author has created a realistic story of Jinsen, a teenager who decides to live as a monk with a shaved head, calming smile, new name, and begging bowl.  Justin, who is assigned to an Econ class project with Jinsen, must then face guilt by association, and decide what choices to make when confronting his parents, teachers, class leaders, bullies, drama club members, and friends.  What sounds like a canned stereotypical story turns out to have much deeper nuances.	2003-05-04
US	49956909	R2HJ8VSKYQFFCV	0618164537	959516080	The White Swan Express: A Story About Adoption	Books	5	5	9	N	N	Beautiful happy watercolors illustrate a loving story	As we look at the Earth from outer space, four North Americans are waking up to a new day: Beth and Lewis Maynard in pink Miami; Andrea Lee and Charlotte Appleford in a Seattle suburb; Rebecca Mendel and her kitty in Minnetonka; and Hioward and Jessica Suzuki in a quilt-covered Toronto.  On the other side of the earth four infant girls are napping in Guangzhou, Guangdong: Wu Li; Li Shen; Qian Ye; and Chun Mei Ni.  The colorful story follows the North Americans as they pack and pack, fly to China, stay at the White Swan hotel, and wait to pick up their new daughters.  Each of their unique personalities or quirks is captured, making for a funnier story  (like putting on makeup while eating congee).  Heartwarmingly, they meet their daughters, the fog lifts, and new days of good fortune begin.  When the four new families exchange holiday cards on the last page, we see pics of growing daughters, and upon closer inspection, the chosen names of the four girls.	2003-04-25
US	49956909	RKQ8D2PV347ZS	9657108446	412512757	Moadim Lesimcha: Explorations into the Jewish Holidays	Books	4	0	1	N	N	interesting to read 2 gain perspectives of movement's leader	The title of this book comes from \\"Vateeten Lanu MOADIM LESIMCHA Hagim U'zmanim L'sasson\\" (and You have given us holidays on which we rejoice, festivals and times for jubilation...).  Rabbi Shlomo Aviner has written about 50 books -- nearly all are in Hebrew.  The rabbi of the Israeli settlement of Beit El, the Rosh Yeshiva of the Ateret Kohanim yeshiva, and a follower of Rabbi Kook's son, Aviner's writings have influenced several branches of Orthodox Judaism, Gush Emunim, and religious/messianic segments of Israel's West Bank settlers.  This book has translated many of Aviner's essays into English, especially drawing from his book, \\"Tal Herman.\\"  When reading his essays, keep in mind that Aviner and his brand of religious nationalism has tried to justify the removal of rights for Palestinians and tried to stamp out any type of a Palestinian state using Jewish law.  Yet, putting that aside for a moment, Aviner reminds the reader that along the cycle of the Jewish calendar, the Jewish holidays have a theme that one should study and act upon.  Aviner criticizes those obsessive compulsive co-religionists who focus on stringently cleaning every bit of bread crumbs from their homes prior to Passover and forget the holiday's spiritual theme.  His Hanukkah theme is that of faith versus miracles, and the miracles from god granted to those who act like the Macabees and defend Jewish law.  His essays reinforce the idea of action and a strain of militarism can be read between the lines.  When discussing the Purim story, he portrays Mordechai as strong, self-confident, and proud when he does not capitulate to Haman.  His Purim essays include the titles, \\"The Mitzvah to Drink,\\" and \\"Kneelings Saps Our Strength.\\"  In his essay on Sukkot he addresses the material world and the spiritual.  His discussion on Rosh Hashana discusses repentance and its centrality in the universe.  The book provides an important glimpse into the writings of a spiritual leader of the Israeli settler movement.ment.	2003-04-20
US	49956909	R1KJBT2CS4966R	0966710711	865082486	The Journey Continues : The Ma'yan Passover Haggadah (English, Hebrew and Hebrew Edition)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Filled with unique language, stories and activities	This engaging hagadah is in Right to Left format.  It includes instructions for the additional use of Miriams Cup, tambourines, and an orange.  It open with an invocation.  It includes voweled Hebrew, English translations, english transliterations, readings, remembrances, commentaries, and explanations, which makes for a great symposium around the table.  Shifra and Puah are recalled and given voices.  Blessings that traditionally start &quot;baruch ata&quot; are also rendered in the feminine &quot;Birucha at yah&quot;, using the innovative god language of &quot;yah&quot; as in &quot;Hallelu-yah&quot;.  You have the option of using &quot;ruach ha-Olam&quot; instead of &quot;melech ha-olam.&quot;  Photos from past seders are interspersed in the text.  Also includes bios on famous women for the four cups  (bella abzug, emma lazarus, szold, leibowitz, etc.).  At the back are a couple of pages of addresses for interesting organizations and resources.  Only drawback.. Dayenu has just three verses, and not the traditional billions.	2003-04-04
US	49956909	R1GB8962JMCF5T	076112599X	441163521	I Do. I Did. Now What?!: Life After the Wedding Dress	Books	5	4	5	N	N	My big fattening Greekorean wedding and its aftermath	Jenny Lee rode the English major book publishing wagon, then jumped into the internet marketing bubble.  And as that bubble was deflating, she got hitched, and took good notes on her life as a newlywed.  The results are hilarious.  In seven chapters (maybe a seven year itch sequel?), each titled for one of the marriage clauses (\\"for richer or poorer\\"; \\"in sickness and health\\"), Lee recounts the mostly petty, irrational (a.k.a. serious) but funny incidents that make up couplehood.  The book opens as the Vera Wang wedding dress comes off and the $500 silk negligee stays on for a whopping span of 3 minutes.  After 5 years of dating him and contemplating marriage, kids, and even real estate(!), they're hitched.  Now what?  A lot of laughing on the reader's part.  Her physician husband is mostly oblivious to the things that set her off and the domestic duties she performs.  She rents a parking garage for their car, yet unbeknownst to her, he spends 30-90 minutes sometimes circling the block like a vulture, waiting for an on-street space to open.  Her husband thinks nothing of circling the block, but can't understand why she would want to go one hour out of the way to purchase a special lipstick.  She freaks that he uses gobs of her extremely expensive shampoo, not realizing its cost; but maybe he has a sweet reason for using it.  There are fights over Scrabble, orange soda, name changes (change? Hyphen? Slash?) and \\"what's for dinner?\\", but the love remains.  I wouldn't be surprised to see some scriptwriters lifting incidents from this book for their sitcoms.  Essentially this is a very funny owners manual that should be read by all newlyweds and their parents.	2003-03-18
US	49956909	RZB7M5DOKKMCM	0312300352	167462834	Blood for Dignity: The Story of the First Integrated Combat Unit in the U.S. Army	Books	5	15	17	N	N	Gives recognition but also tells an exciting battle story	As the son of a 99th Division infantryman, I heard stories of The Battle of the Bulge, and the Remagan Bridge battles.  So when I saw this unique book on the first \\"integrated\\" army units of WWII, many serving in the 99th, I purchased it.  Just as Chinese workers were rarely pictured in the 19th Century railway construction photos, black soldiers never appeared in popular WWII films, except when seen as laborers, servants, orderlies, or drivers.  This book helps to initiate wider recognition of these men and a historical correction.  Each of the early chapters contain contemptuous outrages of life in the  U.S. Army, including racist incidents, segregated Red Cross centers, poor training, and earned combat medals that were never delivered to African American soldiers.  German POW's were treated better than black soldiers, in many cases, and one can imagine life for soldiers from the Northern states who were shipped to racist Southern states for training, such as at Camp van Dorn.  The book details how at the end of the war, black combat soldiers were quickly sent back to their old units, sowing bitterness.  The dignity for their spilled blood did not come until fifty years later.  Colley, who briefly outlines the contributions of black soldiers in colonial American armies, the Civil War, and the Spanish American War, opens this book in the heat of a battle, when black volunteers come to rescue their fellow infantrymen in K Company on March 13, 1945.  2,221 African American soldiers in about 52 platoons were allowed to volunteer for combat assignments as the war was coming to an end.  This book mainly focuses on members of the 5th of K (99th Infantry, 394 Infantry Regiment, K Company, 5th platoon, led by Lt. Richard Ralston) and the 5th of E.  The author introduces the reader to these men's lives prior to war, and shows their evolution into combat troops.  By the close of the war, as Iserlohn falls, and the 394th crossed the Altmuhl, they are grizzled veterans.  An excellent book, an exciting read, and a necessary contribution to American History.xcellent book, an exciting read, and a necessary contribution to American History.	2003-03-09
US	49956909	R1ITYWNV47VTL9	1400033713	179001073	Best Business Crime Writing of The Year	Books	5	8	8	N	N	should be read by all public accountants and investors	This book will help to breed healthy skepticism.  2002 was a defining year for modern business crimes, or at least reported business crimes, and this book provides a succinct and clear review of the highflying companies, the colorful players, their notorious crimes, and the pertinent issues.  I finally understand how Enron schemed and ImClone conned.  The editor has selected some of the best reports of each crime, crimes where greed and vice, instead of virtue, were rewarded, and he has brought each story up to date with unfolding news.  In Part One, Surowiecki selected stories about the corporate hucksters, conmen, CEOs, visionaries, and villains, from the Washington Post, Vanity Fair, Forbes, The New York Times, The LA Times, The WSJ, and even The Edmonton Journal.  The stories illuminate the events at Enron, WorldCom, ImClone, CriticalPath, Quest, Tyco, and Adelphia.  The Edmonton Journal's story on WorldCom's Bernie Ebbers is among the best I read.  No Mississippi paper would touch that profile.  You might never read a business press puff piece about a CEO, or trust a devoutly religious or visionary CEO the same way again.  In Part Two, the stories focus on \\"Who Watches the Watchmen?\\"  Stories from The New Yorker, The New York Times, BW, USBanker, and The WSJ highlight the SEC and NY Attorney General Elliot Spitzer, and the corruptions of Wall Street analysts, \\"independent knowers,\\" and at the self regulating Big Five accounting firms, especially Andersen Worldwide.  The profile of Jack Grubman, a disgraced telecom analyst who lacked objectivity is a delight to read. In Part Three, the selected stories concern \\"What Went Wrong, and How Do We Fix It?\\"  Stories from the WSJ, Business 2.0, Slate, Bloomberg, Fortune, The Weekly Standard, and The Atlantic Monthly investigate whether corruption is an always a byproduct of bull market bubbles, whether stock options lead to the rewarding of bad behavior, and whether greedy investors themselves are to blame for what befalls them.alls them.	2003-02-22
US	49956909	R3RWPO6KGJYLK8	0374177139	55529285	The Interpreter	Books	5	20	25	N	N	A quintessential NYC novel and mystery	This is an satisfying, entertaining first novel and mystery which explores New York City's Korean American immigrant and merchant community and their 1.5 Generation children.  Told in the third person, we meet Suzy Park, on the cusp of turning 30, an ivy-educated, unfinished daughter of immigrant, Korean greengrocers in the Bronx.  Estranged from her family, Suzy has aimlessly tripped from one adulterous relationship and temporary job to another.  It is a life of unscented impermanence, with dull colored cars and a forever incomplete cathedral.  She shuns her fellow 1.5 Generation members who strive in school.  Her latest job is as an interpreter for the city court system.  As an interpreter, she cannot take sides in court cases, but she is a keen observer and picks up the nuances and subtleties of languages, tones, and expressions.  As the story unfolds, the reader will hope that Suzy not only interprets and transfers these depositions, but learns to interpret her own life choices and place in America.  Although her parents were killed in a robbery of their store nearly five years ago, she never discusses the tragedy, not even with her friends or prying roommate.  But when one client hints at some knowledge of a prior murder of greengrocers, Suzy picks up the trail of the mystery.  Like the layers of a greengrocer's onion, the story unfolds as clues are unpeeled in each chapter.  Was the robbery a murder?  Why did the family move so often?  Along the way, the author mixes in Korean culture, Nabokov, the INS, Japanese cinema, news radio-WINS, botany, van Gogh, and King Lear to create an absorbing, expeditious mystery.	2003-02-21
US	49956909	R1Q5BKYKQ7F6OF	0689826656	675006693	Chicken Soup By Heart	Books	5	6	6	N	N	tasty, with the power to cure	Like the cover illustration, this story is round and warm, like a bowl of soup. It was a very nice Sunday, in the middle of spring, in the middle of breakfast, when Rudie Dinkins heard his mama say that Rudie's after-school and sick-day sitter, Mrs. Gittel, had the flu.  But Mrs. Gittel is more than the sitter, isn't she?  She is Rudie's older friend.  Rudie goes down the hall to Mrs. Gittel's apartment and hears 13 \\"a-choos\\" before he even knocks on her door. When he's sick, Mrs. Gittel makes him chicken soup. So, with his mother's help, Rudie, a nice boychik, cooks a batch of chicken soup using Mrs. Gittel's secret ingredient: sweet memories of their friendship! The soup requires at least three sweet stories about the person who will be consuming the soup.  And soon Mrs. Gittel, the Chicken Soup Queen, is feeling good as new! (if Arthur hadn't moved so far away, maybe her son, Arthur, could have made the soup?  No?)  Well, Mrs Gittel is cured so well, that she feels well enough to help Rudie who has a Tummy ache later in the day.  Mommy seems to be crying in one illustration:  Is it cuz Rudie is so sweet that you can bottle him as medicine, or is it because she is peeling an onion for the soup?  Please be sure to read the recipe aloud at the end of the book.  A recipient of a Sidney Taylor Award!	2003-01-15
US	49956909	R3R9CT42HO6U6M	0689839391	961337988	Horace and Morris Join the Chorus (but what about Dolores?) (Horace and Morris and Dolores)	Books	4	0	2	N	N	Horace, Morris, and Dolores in a Chorus Cause Such Tzurris	A nice rhymed lesson that there is a place for everyone in a chorus, after the cheesy Moustro gets convinced.  Horace and Morris sing well, Boris and Chloris listen fine, but Dolores, well Dolores is another story.	2003-01-04
US	49956909	R1ATH5PP2TMTGT	0811836231	800143171	The Hanukkah Mice	Books	4	2	2	N	N	a fun new warm Hanukkah flipout book for children	This is a precious new Hanukkah book for young children by an author and illustrator based in Britain.  As the story progresses about young Marty, Molly, and Milly Mouse, the number of candles on the menorahs grow in relation to the eight nights of the holiday.  They are dressed as British country mice: Molly in pearls, Milly in a pleated dress, and Marty in a snappy vest and tri-coloured striped, knitted cap.  As the cold Winter night descends, they explore the home in which they live.  Each evenly numbered page has a flip out with a cutout.  Each flip page as a menorah with the proper number of candles for each night, and the cutouts are of a Star of David; dreidel, moon, and other shapes. On Night 1, they find a menorah under the flipout.  One Night 2, Marty finds glimmering gelt.  On Night 3, their mouse noses lead them to a plate of latkes, hidden under the flipout.  On Night 4, Milly finds a dreidel with shimmering Hebrew letters. Tiptoeing out on Night 5, Molly finds Hanukkah donuts, surrounded by used wrapping paper and Hanukkah colouring books left over from an earlier party.  On Night 6, you flip up the page and they found some pretty, wrapped presents.  On Night 7, they scurry about in search of the menorah, but find only the Hanukkah cards on the family's mantle.  The final page has a four page fold out of their illuminating, shimmering discovery on the last night of Hanukkah.	2003-01-02
US	49956909	R3H8SCW7A1ISG0	0792279859	623636922	Good-Bye, 382 Shin Dang Dong	Books	5	5	6	N	N	a story of changes, moves, lovely things, and acclimation	Jangmi (which means Rose in Korean) is 8 years old, and her family is moving from Korea to Brighton Massachusetts in the United States.  Behind her, she must leave her room and its furnishings, her willow tree, her friends, her extended family, and her home at 382 Shin Dang Dong. Tears run down her face as raindrops streak down the face of her old home.  She must replace her Korean melons and raindrops for American honeydews and fog, her willow tree for a backyard maple one, her going away Korean dinner for a welcoming dinner of iced cakes and casseroles.  Can a house without rice paper be made into a home?  She is wise enough to retain her Korean name, and make a friend in this new place.  I guess it will all work out okay.	2002-12-19
US	49956909	R29XQ24NV7J2GV	0803726902	270051194	Hen Goes Shopping	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Cute fun with pull tabs	Actually for ages 2-6, not 4-8.  A plump hen goes shopping to various stores for her friends and neighbors.  The reader watches her work down her list, and then can fill her basket as she moves through the pages by pulling down the pull tabs.  In addition, there are cheeky, funny flip up tab results, like worms appearing under the apple-pull-tab, or a satiated mouse in a flip up bread box.  The reader can name the fruits at the stall, name the shapes of the baker's breads, the colors on the florist's blooms, name the sizes of the dairyman's milk cartons, or the countries' flags on his cheese wedges.  And then you can guess what is missing on the last page.	2002-12-18
US	49956909	RNKK2EQ6B0ZKH	1929766580	814594504	Around the World PiggyWiggy: A Pull-the-Page Book Handprint Books	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Piggy Wiggy has lots of folded adventures, and you do, too	Piggy Wiggy has adventures around the globe.  And the reader discovers this is not a simple pull tab book, but an intricate fold out book.  On a bright fuschia background, Piggy spins a globe, and start out in European Italy.  Fold out the Coliseum, and you have a four page rectangular chariot race.  In African Egypt, the Sphinx foldout results in a triangular pyramid.  In Asian Nepal, the foldout is a vertical fold-UP, up Mount Everest.  In African Zimbabwe, the pull down is a fold down, way down Victoria Falls.  And these are just half of the fun and creative folds that drive home the message of imaginative world adventures.	2002-12-18
US	49956909	RPSN76IRD3Z22	0375815201	518610142	Kite Flying	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Simple, colorful, and like a kite.. surprising in direction	Grace Lin's pages are filled with spirograph-like swirls, bright patterns, bold colors, and even more colors. The inside cover is filled with drawings of the tools needed to make a kite (paper, scissors, paint, glue, etc), while the back inside cover is filled with the meanings attributed to the types of kites you fly (dragons for wisdom, dragonflies for Summer, butterflies for love, fish for abundance, taods for long life, etc).  The whole family is involved in making the feng zheng kite, and then they ascend a hill to fly it with other families.  She closes the book by asking the reader to imagine what people's kites are saying about their wishes and desires.	2002-12-18
US	49956909	R2QK6GKUDRHFGR	1563979829	68878391	Dylan the Eagle-Hearted Chicken	Books	4	1	1	N	N	nice illustrations, choppy but cute story	When a crow steals a hen's (Ethel) egg and drops it in an eagle's nest, a chick (Dylan) is hatched to an eagle alongside two eagle chicks.  Named E-awk, Dylan, like a vegetarian born to a carnivorous family, eats corn while his siblings eat fish, bugs, and snakes.  Dylan proves his mettle by saving his mother, like a chicken-hawk-eagle, from the clutches of a fox, proving that not all chickens are chicken.  The illustrations are clear and enjoyable, but the text has peculiar asides, such as twice mentioning that the mother eagle's name is too hard to pronounce (is this some sort of hip inside joke?)	2002-12-17
US	49956909	R1YHE20KS5R1B4	0312305036	458573740	Edinburgh: A Novel	Books	5	3	5	N	N	a novel with a great surprising story and engaging language	I would like to recommend this book without giving any of the plot away.  The author is Amerasian and in this book he has mixed East and West, an Eastern myth within the form of a Greek tragedy.  Like a tragedy, the novel opens with a prologue, which I think should be read at the beginning and end of the book to get the full effect of the story.  What follows is not a tragey's parados chorus, but the story of some Maine choir boys.  The present tense prose is so lyrical, the reader is drawn in; like a car accident you can't help but look at, even though it may be painful, you read on.  The lake at the choir's summer camp appears still, but the author shows that the ripples from the choir master's abuses are waves that run deep, wide, and unseen; they are as devastating as the wake of the Black Plague.	2002-12-04
US	49956909	RAFYGO2PCKSNJ	0060281162	820531271	One Candle	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Dark pastels bring a story of triumph and courage	With dark brown and violet pastels, the authors tell the story of a Hanukkah celebration in a suburban Tudor home.  Families gather, cook, celebrate, and eat.  Sitting at the table with china and knit kippahs and nice glassware, they serve a beef brisket, latkas, and sour cream and apple sauce.  I will assume that the sour CREAM is non-dairy, or else some Maccabees would have attacked this home as they did the Greco-Assyrians.  But, I digress. Grandma takes out a raw potato.  Was it for grating?  No.  Grandma and Great Aunt Rose tell the story of their first night of Hanukkah in the Buchenwald death camp.  They risked their lives to steal a potato, and even though they were starving, they used it to make a candle to celebrate the holiday.  They all place it next to the menorah, walk to the wintery yard, and watch the glow.  They drink l'chayim under a full moon (although there can never be a full moon during the eight days of Hanukkah, since it has to be a darkened new moon (ooops!).  A story of courage and triumph and family, yet with a few errors which can be turned into a learning opportunity when reading it to your kids	2002-11-24
US	49956909	R3D9ATG6VTUHZM	0694015253	885846698	Happy Hanukkah, Biscuit!	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A holiday edition to the Biscuit series	Biscuit goes to visit Sam for a Hanukkah party on the eighth night of the holiday.  As the girls, boy, and Sam (a dog) busy themselves on successive pages with latkes, dreidels, fried jelly donuts, and making candles, Biscuit find mischief on very ingenious flip up pages.  Biscuit plays with the gelt, the donuts, the string for the candle wicks, the apples for the applesauce.  What fun.  But then comes time for a gift for Sam...	2002-11-24
US	49956909	R1PVSZ3HF4MP30	037580613X	395790020	The Name Jar	Books	5	30	33	N	N	Should be read in every elem.school. What does yr name mean?	Yangsook (Rachel) Choi has written AND illustrated another illuminating book.  Unhei has moved from South Korea with her family to America; she has brought her clothes, bags, and a name \\"chop\\" stamp from her grandmother.  Her schoolmates cannot pronounce her name on the bus, so she doesn't reveal her name to her classmates.  Is it good to be different?  Should she embrace her difference?  In America she can still eat seaweed and kimchi; she can shop at Kim's Market and Fadil's Falafel.  But maybe a name of Amanda, Miranda, Daisy, or Tamela would be better than Unhei (Yoon-hye).  The kids at school put name suggestions in a jar on her desk, but on the day she will choose her name, the jar has disappeared.  Who took it?  What will Unhei decide to do?  Did Mr. Cocotos her teacher have a hand in this?  Will all the kids want to choose a new name?  A must read for every elementary school.	2002-10-27
US	49956909	RGPYM1EUM0Z0A	0374355126	549692335	New Cat	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Can be enjoyed by cat & tofu lovers, and kids everywhere	New Cat got her name cuz she was the \\"new cat.\\"  When her tail isn't cleaning the computer monitor or reading Mr Kim's book of \\"Tufu Secrets,\\" she guards Mr. Kim's Bronx based tofu factory from mice.  When she goes after one such nefarious mouse in a restricted area, her mistake with a watery vat of tofu actually saves Mr. Kim's business.  A cute, endearing, and tasty tale, even if the tale's tail is a cat's.	2002-10-27
US	49956909	RKHNHT72OPUUQ	0380977761	418035057	Abraham: A Journey to the Heart of Three Faiths	Books	4	18	20	N	N	An appetizing introduction to the stor(ies) of Abraham	Feiler has traveled and written about life in Japan, the circus, England, and the Biblical Middle East.  In this post-9/11 book, he returns to Israel from Manhattan and explores the history and lore, from the perspective of three monotheistic faiths, surrounding the patriarch of ABRAHAM.  Maybe Feiler was destined to write this book.  His mother's maiden name means \\"House of Abraham\\", and the Bar Mitzvah parshat of both Feiler and his brother was \\"Lech Lecha\\", the biblical story in which Abraham is told by god to \\"go forth\\" and be himself.  Coincidentally, or eerily, I read this slim book on a flight in which I, a Jew, sat between a Muslim and a Catholic nun.  And like the mixed nuts that were served on the jet flight, this book is a nice appetizer to further, deeper study --  it is a brief, light, enjoyable, comforting, hopeful, and even humorous read.  Feiler tells the reader that The Akkedah story is read at both Rosh Hashana as well as the Eid al-Adha.  And obviously a father sacrificing his son is critical to Christian liturgy as well.  To Muslims, Abraham is the first Hanif, and to Christians he is the father of faith.  In this book, Feiler explores how three faiths invented stories around Abraham to reinforce their worldviews and to reflect upon their times; they even swapped stories, like the story about how Abraham visits Ishmael in his later life.  I found the chapter on Christianity most enlightening, especially Feiler's quick discussion on St Augustine's views on Abraham and the Jews.	2002-10-11
US	49956909	R3S6EU9E4DQ9VA	0689839146	87581178	Things That Sometimes Happen: Very Short Stories for Little Listeners	Books	5	4	4	N	N	peculiar but fun	Nine very short stories that at first seem peculiar, but kids will understand them.  There is the meaningful story of the boy and his father in role reversal.  The boy goes to work for his father when his father stays home, ill in bed.  The boy calls home and also buys his father a gift to help him feel better.  There is a story about a design conscious hippo in search of a car.  There is a boy and his cat with very active imaginations.  The story about a thirst elephant and the equally giving glass of water is quite cute.  And what about the tallest crayon in the box, the rarely used black crayon.  One day it convinces a girl to use it in a drawing. A fun book that stimulates the imagination	2002-10-06
US	49956909	R626YSX4N0V41	080480284X	910579446	Japanese Children's Favorite Stories	Books	5	19	20	N	N	enjoyable classics for bedtime reading	First printed the early 1950's, this is the 51st printing of the book.  It contains ten classics from the first printing 50 years ago, and ten newer stories.  Stories include (1) Momotaro the Peach Boy, a boy who is found in a peach by a childless couple, who goes off to fight ogres with his animal friends when he reaches his teens; (2) The Magic Tea Kettle about the badger who is mistaken for a kettle; and (3) Silly Saburo,  the hilarious and entertaining story about a boy and his misadventures, all becuase he does exactly what he is told.  Also among the twenty are (4) The Crab and the Monkey, about a plotting monket and his hapless friend, a crab, and a riceball and persimmon seed; and (5) Why The Jellyfish Has No Bones, about a jellyfish and an evil octopus.	2002-10-06
US	49956909	R1GKLFVBCGZM9U	0805062378	576129172	Runaway Dreidel!	Books	5	3	4	N	N	a nice addition to the Hanukah collection	With nods to \\"Twas the night before\\" and the Runaway Ginderbread Man and Runaway Ricecake, etc, this is a rhyming story about the cultural celebration of Hanukkah, a celebration of grated potatoes, family and dreidels.  A boy plays with a shiny new dreidel, that spins and spins out the door; spinning past challahs that are two for a dollah... Spins from city to country to ocean to sky, with fun illustrations along the way.	2002-10-06
US	49956909	R1CI4KAT11ZKSA	0375814035	86919094	Down a Sunny Dirt Road: An Autobiography	Books	5	6	6	N	N	a must for any preteen interested in drawing or the bears	an extremely funny autobiography geared to pre-teens and others, about growing up in Philly during the Depression and WWII, and becoming artists, illustrators, and acclaimed authors of forty years worth of childrens books.  Contains cartoon illustrations on nearly every other page.  STan recounts how he was sent to a \\"one eyed battalion\\" at Fort Bragg during WWII, and eventually made it into ASTP at The University of Maine, while Jan became an aircraft riveter during the War.  After VE Day, the couple married, raised a family and became illustrators.  In 1962, they published their first childrens book, and the rest is history.  I recommend it to any child with a flare for and interest in drawing and cartooning.	2002-10-06
US	49956909	REND2D927GAL4	0618029982	235631426	Across the Sabbath River: In Search of a Lost Tribe of Israel (In Search of a Lost Tribe of Israel)	Books	5	32	33	N	N	intriguing adventure that mixes mystery, travel and religion	First, before starting this book, I recommend that you take a look at the authors  two page guide to pronunciation, to better understand the Hebrew, Mizo, Thado, and Burmese words in the text.  Halkin, a well known translator of Hebrew books, posits that a little-known ethnic group living along the Indian-Burmese border is descended from the ancient Jewish tribe of Manasseh. The fate of the ten lost tribes of Israel has haunted Jewish and Christian imaginations throughout the ages. Hillel Halkin has long been intrigued by the subject. And why not? Many American Jews of a certain age dreamed of an aboriginal, strong, warrior Jew, the type who could win fistfights on the way to and from junior high school. And so, Halkin embarked on a journey. In 1998, he accompanied a Jerusalem rabbi and dedicated lost-tribes hunter to China, Thailand, and northeast India, where the rabbi hoped to discover traces of the lost tribes. Halkin went with a very healthy dose of skepticism. Most look at Rabbi Avichail as a well meaning crackpot.  Whatever the Rabbi is, he makes for an interesting story, having traveled to Marranos in Portugal, Karens in Burma, Tatars in Dagestan, Kananites in Kerala, and Indians in Manipur and Mizoram. The book captures your interest from its first paragraph.  The Sabbath is approaching as Halkin and the rabbi are searching out the non-Chinese Chiangs in Western Szechuan.  Then the police arrive at their hotel.  Youll have to read the book to find out what happens.  After a variety of adventures and misadventures, Halkin returned several times to the Indian states of Manipur and Mizoram, where 5000 people belive they are a lost tribe of Hebrews.  Are these people the victims of a mass cultural delusion, having accepted a myth to promote and reinforce their distinct cultural identity?  Or are the actually descendants of some Bnai Menashe? Are these Kuki-Chin-Mizo people, living along the Indian-Burmese border, descended from the ancient biblical tribe of Manasseh.  Halkin isnt a scholar, linguist, or ethnographer, but neither am I, and the story is still fascinating.  Why do they have a song about crossing the Red Sea while living in Northeast India, a song they have sung prior to any missionaries showing up and one that contains ancient words? Why do they have a god named Yah(za), a history of brit milah circumcision on the eighth day after birth, a mourning period of 7 days, a Spring festival of unleavened bread (among rice eaters), and the use of the word selah.  There are some who broke away and even started a competing shul  (if thats not Jewish, what is?)  Whatever you decide, the book is an exciting, mysterious and enlightening read.  Sign me up for a Bnai Menashe kippah?al tribe of Manasseh.  Halkin isnt a scholar, linguist, or ethnographer, but neither am I, and the story is still fascinating.  Why do they have a song about crossing the Red Sea while living in Northeast India, a song they have sung prior to any missionaries showing up and one that contains ancient words? Why do they have a god named Yah(za), a history of brit milah circumcision on the eighth day after birth, a mourning period of 7 days, a Spring festival of unleavened bread (among rice eaters), and the use of the word selah.  There are some who broke away and even started a competing shul  (if thats not Jewish, what is?)  Whatever you decide, the book is an exciting, mysterious and enlightening read.  Sign me up for a Bnai Menashe kippah?	2002-09-30
US	49956909	R3US1C8IV0GEZ0	1864502886	654613950	Lonely Planet World Food Hong Kong (Lonely Planet World Food Guides)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	a helpful and fun book, even if u dont plan adventure-eating	... This is an informative and enjoyable book, and lets you delve into Hong Kong culture and eating culture in a way the other books don't.  The inside cover has a quick reference of several Cantonese terms in English and Chinese characters, including counting numbers and the very important \\"ngoh5 hei6 sou3 xig6 ge3\\" (I am a vegetarian).  The book closes with over 50 pages of Cantonese phrases (including \\"I am ill\\", \\"I am pissed\\", \\"I want to throw up\\", and \\"Thank you, that was delicious\\";  a glossary of foods and terms; and a Hong Kong culinary dictionary (explains the main ingredients and cooking method).  Each transliterated word is coded with the proper intonation, distilled into 6 basic tones.  There are 200 beautifully photographed pages of places to eat (from concept to neon to mobile dai pai dong, to street restaurants); a discussion of the banquet; and analyses of staples, such as soups and noodles, rices and meats, and sauces.  There are sections on shopping, picnics, utensils, medicinal foods, and \\"chinese table rules\\" (no vertical chopsticks please).	2002-09-12
US	49956909	R230CXJZ1EFQZT	0375409823	628796454	Talking to God: Personal Prayers for Times of Joy, Sadness, Struggle, and Celebration	Books	5	16	16	N	N	Prose Prayers with Purpose, a must read	The author of the best selling, tear jerking, hope-filled, \\"TO BEGIN AGAIN,\\" offers us this collection of personal prayers for people of all faiths, for all occasions. True prayers lead to action.  Some find that traditional prayers are unfulfilling or worse, alienating.  This book provides simple, direct and intimate prose, as if you are chatting with a loved one, God.  Many of the prayers are preceded by a poignant story from Rabbi Levy's life in the rabbinate.<br />In Part 1, there are Daily Prayers for Morning, Driving, Difficult Days, Food on Our Table, Seeking the Ability to Pray, Finding Mentors in the least likely places, Nighttime, and a Prayer for the Parent to say to a Child at Night. You think you had bad days, consider her story prior to one prayer for Bad Days, when she recounts that the day she moved homes, she had a car accident, had to bid farewell to a dying congregant, and found the tallis given to her by her dean being used as a drop cloth by painters.<br />Part 2 contains prayers for love and marriage, including prayers for finding love, sexuality, rekindling passion, breakups, marriage, troubles, anniversaries, guidance after unfaithfulness, healing from divorce, preparing for the wedding ceremony, and the second marriage.  The prayer for fighting sexual temptation is preceded by a hilarious story about how the rabbi's phone number became confused with that of an internet prostitute. You'll have to read the book to learn about how the problem was resolved.  In Part 3, there are prayers for Pregnancy and Childbirth, including prayers for Conception, Pregnancy and Strength, and Birth. In Part 4, there are prayers for parenthood and adoption, and a story about how the rabbi learns to face the challenges of parenting a special needs child.<br />In Part 5, there are prayers for healing, healers, overcoming illnesses and addictions, overcoming breast cancer, surgery, and living with disabilities. Part 6 contains prayers for work and employment unemployment, career changes, interviews, and the incumbent challenges. The Prayer Before a Big Challenge is preceded by a Talmudic story of Rabbi Eliezer and his mentor Rabbi Yohanan ben Zakkai.  Part 7 contains prayers for comfort and strength in difficult times, embracing silence, and being resilient. A prayer to be said after losing a pet is preceded by a story about pets and Martin Buber. In Part 8, there are prayers for special occasions, new homes, birthdays, rests, and brushes with death. In Part 9, there are prayers for Aging, including retirement, menopause, the fear of retirement, the fear of becoming dependent or a burden to others, and a prayer for the child who must care for an aging parent.<br />In Part 10, there are prayers of Death and Mourning, including prayers for those who succumb to violence and prayers for those murdered on 9/11/2001.  Part 11 contains prayers for Living Up to the Best in Our Souls, including a prayer to abstain from gossip, overcoming jealousy, prayers for wrongdoing and repair, healing troubled relationships, and for guidance and wisdom. The final chapter, Part 12, has prayers for Peace, Tolerance, our Country and the World. After each chapter, there are a couple of pages in which to joy down your own words and prayers for yourself and posterity.  This book is well conceived, well designed and well written.mployment, career changes, interviews, and the incumbent challenges. The Prayer Before a Big Challenge is preceded by a Talmudic story of Rabbi Eliezer and his mentor Rabbi Yohanan ben Zakkai.   Part 7 contains prayers for comfort and strength in difficult times, embracing silence, and being resilient. A prayer to be said after losing a pet is preceded by a story about pets and Martin Buber. In Part 8, there are prayers for special occasions, new homes, birthdays, rests, and brushes with death. In Part 9, there are prayers for Aging, including retirement, menopause, the fear of retirement, the fear of becoming dependent or a burden to others, and a prayer for the child who must care for an aging parent. <br />In Part 10, there are prayers of Death and Mourning, including prayers for those who succumb to violence and prayers for those murdered on 9/11/2001.  Part 11 contains prayers for Living Up to the Best in Our Souls, including a prayer to abstain from gossip, overcoming jealousy, prayers for wrongdoing and repair, healing troubled relationships, and for guidance and wisdom. The final chapter, Part 12, has prayers for Peace, Tolerance, our Country and the World. After each chapter, there are a couple of pages in which to joy down your own words and prayers for yourself and posterity.  This book is well conceived, well designed and well written.	2002-09-11
US	49956909	R19U4UQDOGJK8N	0789308045	376214726	Rabbis: The Many Faces of Judaism	Books	5	8	10	N	N	I can barely wait for a sequel, "cantors"	WOW... Now you can not only have a rabbi over for coffee, but have a coffee table book of Rabbis!  But you know what??  This is FABULOUS.  Better than Rebbe trading cards.  RABBIS is a unique book about leaders in modern Judaism in Italy, Israel, Spain, Europe and North America. It features portraits of rabbis and essays in their own words.  This can be a drawback, since some rabbis discuss their lives and roles, while others shep, well not nachas, but their own agendas.  Will you love them all??  Of course not.  That's why every two Jews have three shuls.  Sometimes those who minister in the trenches are a little (or a lot) peculiar... but there are different strokes (and rabbis) for different folks.  They all serve their communities' needs, some large, some very small.  Will your rabbi be envious if s/he wasn't included?  Probably.  The RABBIS span from Alper (a comedian/rabbi) to Zecher and Zecher.  There is a Sephardic \\"Angel\\" and a Kfar Chabad \\"Ashkenazi.\\"  Rabbi Black is a singing cowboy in Albuquerque, while Rabbi Brooks ministers to African American Jews.  Rabbi Yosef Hadana, Chief Rabbi of Ethiopian Jews appears, as does Yitz Greenberg and Lynn Gottlieb.  The cover is adorned by Rahamim Banin, a fundraising, kosher restaurateur and Chabad rabbi in Venice, Italy.  He is captured in a gondola, while the camera captured Rabbi Paltiel with his very pregnant wife before a large pic of their Rebbe.  There are Borchardt of Agudath Israel and Borowitz of HUC; Hartman of Jerusalem and Hausman of Meah Shearim.  There are Balfour Brickner and Rachel Cowan of NYC, and Geller and Eger of California.  Rabbi Goldstein is in his National Guard uniform, Garborcheik in his IDF uniform, Kass in his NYPD suit, and Potasnik in his FDNY garb.  Rabbi Dorff is photographed from a hospital bed.  Buchdahl, a Korean American rabbi in Scarsdale writes an excellent essay of discovery, as does Rabbi Tsuruoka.  There are Tokayer and Waskow; and Simkha Weintraub is pictured as truly a man of the \\"cloth.\\"  An unshy Tunishy follows a surfing Shifren; while father and son, and father and daughter teams of Hirsch's, Marmur's, Kreitman's, Schneier's, and Schindler's appear. Rabbis Matalon and Bronstein are captured in debate, and Saperstein is captured on Capitol Hill; Menticoff is jogging, while Niles Goldstein is photographed in his martial arts attire on a Manhattan rooftop with a WTC tower in the background.  Kleinbaum and Kolodny precede Labeau and Maya Leibovich, while Schorsch follows Rackman and Rozenberg.  Upon closer inspection, the photos reveal secrets, whether it is a \\"770\\" here, a book \\"title\\" there, or a chosen background.  Truly an enjoyable look at contemporary Jewish spiritual leaders.of the \\"cloth.\\"  An unshy Tunishy follows a surfing Shifren; while father and son, and father and daughter teams of Hirsch's, Marmur's, Kreitman's, Schneier's, and Schindler's appear. Rabbis Matalon and Bronstein are captured in debate, and Saperstein is captured on Capitol Hill; Menticoff is jogging, while Niles Goldstein is photographed in his martial arts attire on a Manhattan rooftop with a WTC tower in the background.  Kleinbaum and Kolodny precede Labeau and Maya Leibovich, while Schorsch follows Rackman and Rozenberg.  Upon closer inspection, the photos reveal secrets, whether it is a \\"770\\" here, a book \\"title\\" there, or a chosen background.  Truly an enjoyable look at contemporary Jewish spiritual leaders.	2002-09-10
US	49956909	R1A1YIYFC4I130	0399237984	334871389	Mice Squeak, We Speak Board Book	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Hours of enjoyment	With restrained colors, this board book is a fun poem to read aloud, with plenty of ways to expand upon the story.  Cute drawings, plenty of opportunities to make animal sounds.  For example, \\"Crickets Creak / Mice Squeak / Sheeps Baa/ BUT I SPEAK.... Horses Neigh / .. BUT I SAY... / Parrots Squawk / BUT I TALK\\"	2002-09-07
US	49956909	R1ZVWLS3SG7TI0	0609610686	428814849	Adventures in Jewish Cooking	Books	5	22	22	N	N	What is it?  Chopped Liver?  You Bet it is, and it is great!	Jeffrey Nathan. Is he a son of author, Joan Nathan? Nope, his mom is Harriet Nathan.  Jeffrey Nathan.  The executive chef at New York City's top kosher restaurant, Abigael's.  You mean the chef isn't a woman named Abigael?  Nope.  Jeffrey Nathan.  What does a former Navy cook know about kosher cooking? Plenty. Jeffrey Nathan. The most adventuresome, kosher celebrity chef?  DEFINITELY!  Growing up Jewish in an Italian neighborhood of Queens, NY, Nathan was exposed to unique dishes at home and at the neighbors.  Having worked in kitchens since childhood, from Italian to Naval to Sephardic to \\"New Deal\\" wild-game, he knows a lot, and this CIA grad imparts it to the reader in breezy, interesting, chatty prose.  Each recipe is tagged as Meat, Dairy, or Pareve, and is preceded by a few sentences about how it recipe was conceived.<br />Highlights include: A chopped liver in which the onions are browned in brandy (a secret to using a food processor is taught); a Vegetarian Chopped Liver using apples and corn flakes in addition to the familiar green beans; and Latin American Cerviche, a Passover alternative to gefilte fish that uses salmon and red snapper cut on a bias and served with a crunchy salsa salad that incorporates matzo with mango, jalapeno, peppers, citrus, and tomatoes.<br />Speaking of gefilte fish, try the Gefilte Fish Terrine with Carrots and Beet Salads.  Familiar with lox and cream cheese?  Try his Smoked Salmon Cheesecake with a bit of roasted pepper vinaigrette (he explains how to roast the peppers).  There are recipes for 16 soups and stocks, including, of course, a classic Chicken Soup, as well as a miso variation, and a Sephardic variation with Sofrito and Saffron.  Tired of chickens?  Try Salmon Corn Chowder or his (dairy) Loaded Baked Potato Soup.  Do salads bore you?  Among his 14 salads are Abigael's House Salad with crunchy greens, almonds, and roasted Garlic (a lesson on roasting garlic); a Hungarian Slaw, an Asian Two Cabbage Slaw (napa and red) with soy and sesame oil; and a Challah Panzanella  Salad, inspired by the day old Tuscan bread salads and pita based fattoush.<br />What? No Brisket?  Of course, there is.  Try his herb and cilantro infused Latin Beef Brisket with Chimichurri, BBQ Vinaigrette, and Sweet Potatoes.  Did I mention his Apple Cider Brisket (3 onions, 3 cups of cider, molasses and more)?  His son's trip to Peru and a love of cumin crusted steak led to the recipe for Peruvian Steak with Red Grapes and Onions.  His Lamb with Ratatouille and a Balsamic \\"syrup\\" are inspired.  Syrian Lemon Chicken Stew \\"vibrates\\" like he said it will (better than the one they serve at Esca).  Nathan's poultry recipes include those with Orange-Soy marinades, paprikash, preserved lemons, pojarski, Yemenite, and raisin and asian styles.  A kosher Jambalaya?  Yes, he makes it with turkey and veal sausage.  Eleven fish recipes are included.  Try the Falafel-Crusted Salmon, and the Jamaican Jerk Salmon.  Vegetables?  Yes, Jews eat vegetables.  Try the savory hamantaschen with a vegetable based stuffing; a vegetarian chili; ginger applesauce; a Portobello fajita; wild mushroom kugel; and potato dumplings provencale.  Among the nearly dozen pasta recipes is one for a spicy mac and cheese kugel with 3 peppers.  Side dishes include a mango-date haroset; smoked trout and scallion mashed potatoes; root vegetable tzimmes; Yemenite curry rice; and string bean puttanesca (a Jewish puttanesca?  Her mother has no nachas).  Breads include a unique Bialy Loaf and Yemenite Skillet Breads.  The book closes with sample menus, measurements, and several desserts, including Jewish standards and a Passover Banana Cake and a Banana Soufganiot pudding.) with soy and sesame oil; and a Challah Panzanella  Salad, inspired by the day old Tuscan bread salads and pita based fattoush.<br />What? No Brisket?  Of course, there is.  Try his herb and cilantro infused Latin Beef Brisket with Chimichurri, BBQ Vinaigrette, and Sweet Potatoes.  Did I mention his Apple Cider Brisket (3 onions, 3 cups of cider, molasses and more)?  His son's trip to Peru and a love of cumin crusted steak led to the recipe for Peruvian Steak with Red Grapes and Onions.  His Lamb with Ratatouille and a Balsamic \\"syrup\\" are inspired.  Syrian Lemon Chicken Stew \\"vibrates\\" like he said it will (better than the one they serve at Esca).  Nathan's poultry recipes include those with Orange-Soy marinades, paprikash, preserved lemons, pojarski, Yemenite, and raisin and asian styles.  A kosher Jambalaya?  Yes, he makes it with turkey and veal sausage.  Eleven fish recipes are included.  Try the Falafel-Crusted Salmon, and the Jamaican Jerk Salmon.  Vegetables?  Yes, Jews eat vegetables.  Try the savory hamantaschen with a vegetable based stuffing; a vegetarian chili; ginger applesauce; a Portobello fajita; wild mushroom kugel; and potato dumplings provencale.  Among the nearly dozen pasta recipes is one for a spicy mac and cheese kugel with 3 peppers.  Side dishes include a mango-date haroset; smoked trout and scallion mashed potatoes; root vegetable tzimmes; Yemenite curry rice; and string bean puttanesca (a Jewish puttanesca?  Her mother has no nachas).  Breads include a unique Bialy Loaf and Yemenite Skillet Breads.  The book closes with sample menus, measurements, and several desserts, including Jewish standards and a Passover Banana Cake and a Banana Soufganiot pudding.	2002-09-07
US	49956909	R157JOAGZ1XX1Z	1582460728	849852816	Hola! Jalapeno (World Snacks) (Spanish and English Edition)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Arroz con  this book  has brightened la cocina en mi casa	Hola!  Having consumed the author's board books on sushi and on noshes, I gobbled up this book of rhymes and cut paper collages of Mexican foods.  The back cover includes a pronunciation key for about 23 of the words, from Hola and amigo to jalapeno, from salsa and taco to quesadilla (kay-sah-dee'-yah). So break out the chips and dips, and stir up some cold horcha-ta, cuz this board book in your casa, por favor, will give u enjoyment alot-ta.	2002-08-15
US	49956909	RTI6XWRSC0UNX	1582460817	134876664	Let's Nosh! (World Snacks)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Obey your tummy.  Let your eyes Nosh on this book	I liked her earlier Sushi book; and although the rhymes seemed better with Sushi, I like this new book even more.  I bought several copies to use a small gifts.  With the unique cutout collage graphics, and a fabric bagel and challah, the reader is introduced to several fun and colorful noshes, including floating matzoh balls on a red checkerboard tablecloth, and chopped liver on dark rye on a blue check tablecloth.  There's a fancy schmancy kugel with your orange sippy cup, and a mish moshed gefilte fish with carrots on a tray.  So put down your kasha knish and gefilte fish, light your Friday night candle light, and buy this book for a lite bite.	2002-08-15
US	49956909	RVWKD1GLENHBA	0395442354	876507432	How My Parents Learned to Eat (Rise and Shine)	Books	5	12	13	N	N	Wise and muted, simple and understanding	The author of this Reading Rainbow Selection is wise; she knows how eating styles and habits can separate people and be inhibiting.  The narrator recalls how her parents met: a white American sailor and a Japanese woman from the port city of Yokohama.  The girl tells the reader that some days, in her house, they eat with chopsticks, and on some days with knives and forks.  In the clear, muted watercolors, the reader finds her eating with chopsticks with a rice cooker on the first page, and eating with a knife and fork with a toaster on the last.  Somewhat like O. Henry's story, The gift of the Magi, the sailor is too embarrassed to eat with Aiko, since he cant use chopsticks.  And Aiko is frightened to eat with John, for she has never used a fork.  But the port call is ending in a few weeks, so both rush to learn the other's ways, and an eating date is finally arranged.  Love conquers all.	2002-08-06
US	49956909	R1GSYDIMJ2VG3M	0791443752	8227127	The Peppers, Cracklings, and Knots of Wool Cookbook: The Global Migration of African Cuisine	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Eradicates the perceived myth of inferior African cooking	As a fan of ethnography and food folkways, I found this book interesting.  The first thing that jumped out at me was the author's note of thanks to Embassies of Laos, Peru, and India... Intriguing?  African cuisine migrated to India? To Laos?  The second thing that jumped out at me was the first recipe, which called for \\"egusi seeds.\\"  No worries - there is nearly 100 pages of glossary, sources of ingredients, and bibliography.  The third thing that you notice is the author's penchant for railing against those Eurocentric writers who discredited African foodstuffs and cuisine, and denied the Africanism of Egypt and the Olmecs.  Even if you never prepare a single recipe, this book serves as a source of African culinary and social history.  Nearly every recipe is followed by a bit of history and the story of African migratory influences.  Chapter 1 focuses on \\"Eastern Ethiopians\\" and Dravidians (the Southern Indians including speakers of Tamil, Telugu, Malayalam, and Kannada) -- participants in the lucrative spice trade for centuries.  Highlights for me included \\"Mississippi Masala Rice\\"; \\"Sesame Yam Patties\\"; \\"Doro Wat\\", a chicken in pepper sauce; and \\"Lamb and Beef Dar Es Salaam\\" with 7 spices and 3 meats.  Chapter 2 is on the Sons and Daughters of Kambu, or those Ethiopian-Indians who migrated and influenced Southeast Asian, Khmer,and Cambodian societies.  While highlighting the similarities in certain rituals in Southeast Asia and Africa, the recipes include: Spicy Fish in Peanut Sauce, Afro-Khmer Shrimp and Spicy Rice, Black-Eyed Spring Rolls, and Khmer Sweet Black Eyed Peas (like Hoppin' John, it reminded me of the film &quot;Catfish in Black Bean Sauce&quot;).  Chapter 3 is on \\"Peppers, Cracklings, and Knots of Wool\\" or African cuisine found in Mexico and Central America.  The \\"knots\\" refers to African hair.  While the author discusses African influences, as well as an Almec-Africa connection, her recipes include: Masar Spicy Roasted Turkey; Yam and Plantain Fruit Pudding; Balimaya Pek Corn Dumpling Stew; and  Hunabqu Omon Corn and Masa Soup.  Chapter 4 presents the story of Africa in Peru and the highlands, titled \\"Zancu, Sweet Potatoes and Beer.\\"  Recipes include: Garden Patties with Onion and Cassava Cream Gravy; Zancu; and Yugeno (a cocktail known as the Peruvian blowdart).  Chapter 5, titled, \\"Body and Soul\\" The Miscengenation of Cuisine and Culture in Brazil and Cuba,\\" focuses on Brazil and Cuba, while Chapter 6 focuses on America, Haiti, Maroon settlements, and other Caribbean islands.  The author, fond of cakes since childhood, include several cake recipes including a Chocolate Coconut cake and a Coconut Cake.  \\"Brazen Tomatoes\\" will catch your attention. I enjoyed the final two chapters the most.  Chapter 7 is a study of the migration of the African American cooks from the American South to the North of the country, and Chapter 8 is titled \\"Flapjacks and Blue Notes.\\"  Recipes include those for dinner rolls; smothered steak; Dr. Carver's peach leather; Booker T's fried chicken; lamb chops in thyme and mushrooms; and a very large variety of flapjacks.ruit Pudding; Balimaya Pek Corn Dumpling Stew; and  Hunabqu Omon Corn and Masa Soup.  Chapter 4 presents the story of Africa in Peru and the highlands, titled \\"Zancu, Sweet Potatoes and Beer.\\"  Recipes include: Garden Patties with Onion and Cassava Cream Gravy; Zancu; and Yugeno (a cocktail known as the Peruvian blowdart).  Chapter 5, titled, \\"Body and Soul\\" The Miscengenation of Cuisine and Culture in Brazil and Cuba,\\" focuses on Brazil and Cuba, while Chapter 6 focuses on America, Haiti, Maroon settlements, and other Caribbean islands.  The author, fond of cakes since childhood, include several cake recipes including a Chocolate Coconut cake and a Coconut Cake.  \\"Brazen Tomatoes\\" will catch your attention. I enjoyed the final two chapters the most.  Chapter 7 is a study of the migration of the African American cooks from the American South to the North of the country, and Chapter 8 is titled \\"Flapjacks and Blue Notes.\\"  Recipes include those for dinner rolls; smothered steak; Dr. Carver's peach leather; Booker T's fried chicken; lamb chops in thyme and mushrooms; and a very large variety of flapjacks.	2002-08-03
US	49956909	RUH9MTP4FRV18	0967967589	244783508	Hotel Kid: A Times Square Childhood	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Better than a cold drink at the hotel bar on a steamyhot day	Lewis is the founder of a memoir writing workshop in New Mexico, and he follows his teachings and creates a sweet memoir that recreates a vanished Manhattan in the 1930s and 1940s, when he grew up in the now extinct Hotel Taft in midtown Manhattan.  (I was cleaning out my closet while reading this book, and found a coat hanger from the Hotel Taft.) Reading his prose, you can feel the summer heat of Manhattan, the hot asphalt, the bright sunlight, and the cool large drinks offered at the hotel bar.  His father was the general manager of the Taft Hotel for decades, at Seventh Avenue of West 50th Street (now a TGIF, Roy Rogers, and Michaelangelo hotel); and Stephen and his younger brother, Peter, played in the halls, ate at the grills, had their birthdays with the hotel's band leaders, and grew up in an environment where the porters and nannies were Irish and the elevators operators were Black.  Outside was the depression, but inside the hotel, he, his brother and mother were royalty.  Best parts... the real Barney Greengrass has a cameo; and while Stephen never became a Bar Mitzvah, his brother had one for the presents.  The rabbi inveighed against the evils of Times Square, and the temptations a boy being raised in the neighborhood would face.  The author's mother never returned to a synagogue, but his father did go to the Actor's Temple every Yom Kippur (where Toots Shor would always contribute a cool $2000).  A great read for anyone who wants to be transported back to a different age (yet only 50 years ago)	2002-08-03
US	49956909	R165T1MK42521R	0688160263	729686044	Big Jimmy's Kum Kau Chinese Take Out	Books	5	4	5	N	N	So tasty that two hours later, you will want to re-read it	The award winning children's book illustrator loves to eat Buddha's Delight at the Kum Kau take out chinese restaurant in Brooklyn's Fort Greene/Myrtle Street neighborhood.  Based on photos he took and sketches, he has created extremely realistic watercolors (worthy of a gallery show) that capture a day in the life of the take out restaurant through the eyes of the fictional son of the restaurant's owners.  The inside front and back covers, alone, are worth buying the book for.  They consist of the recreated takeout menus from the restaurant (with reasonable prices).  The book opens with a young boy waking up on a Saturday to help out at the restaurant.  As the shutters are still closed on the take out shop, the cooks receive deliveries, chop and dice, and chop some more.  Menus get folded, water gets boiled, woks get washed.  Customers arrive, and the whole family, cousins and uncles included, all help out.  Interesting neighbors pop in, including a fire truck and its engine company crew, all ordering various favorite dishes.  Who knew so much work went into the preparation of your child's take out Moo Goo Gai Pan?  Later, it is evening, the neon lights comes on, and it's time for the family to order their own dinner for takeout and delivery... What will it be??  Read and find out.  This is a must read for parents and their kids as they wait for their dinner to be delivered	2002-07-27
US	49956909	RJJFY9XXI6OJW	1582460507	856165812	First Book of Sushi (World Snacks)	Books	5	12	13	N	N	hotter than wasabi and cooler than pink pickled ginger	Like the book says, \\"Someday I'll eat with chopsticks / But today just with my hands.\\"  Why should the preschool set be limited to hardened paper stock books with colors, shapes, letters, numbers and animal.  Future Foodies need books like this.  The graphics are bold and bright, and the rhymes are fun.  With \\"miso in my sippy cup / tofu in my bowl\\", this book on your cribs will make for tickled ribs.	2002-07-27
US	49956909	R1CKCV3SA53JOE	0231123604	595234379	In the Catskills	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Shwenga. enjoy the Catskills from your air conditioned couch	How exciting... a book by the guy who runs those Catskills Institute workshops each August!  I attended one a few years back, and I still have the audio tapes frlom some of the lectures.  Collected here are 34 essays, excerpts from memoirs, songs, and stories of life in the Catskills in the Twentieth Century.  The book includes the words and music to Shoot the Shtrudel to Me Yudel (1941) which was dedicated to Yudel Slutzky; an excerpt from Joey Adam's 1966 autobiography on the Borsht Belt; a reprint of \\"Jewish Farmers of the Catskills\\"; and even a piece from Cahan's \\"The Rise of David Levinsky.\\"  The book has seven main sections: history; boarding house, bungalow, and kuchalayn life; hotel life; entertainment; romance; religion; and food.  Additional standouts include an excerpt from Kaaterskill Falls (by Allegra Goodman); I. B. Singer's \\"The Yearning Heifer\\";  Thane Rosenbaum's \\"Bingo in the Bungalow\\"; Herman Wouk's \\"Marjorie at South Wind\\"; and Tania Grossinger's \\"Growing Up at Grossinger's.\\" The book is also filled with photos of Catskill's life, signage, a rate sheet, and even old hotel menus.	2002-07-12
US	49956909	RSLOZA2IZPSIF	0688107540	267456112	Pearl Moscowitz's Last Stand	Books	5	2	2	N	N	a fun story with a great lesson, with great watercolors	The author never forgot the time his mother, Eileen Levine, stopped an official from cutting down a neighbor's tree in Elmont (Long Island), NY.  From that seed, this exciting story germinated, the story of a tough but sweet woman who saves a gingko tree and teaches us how to be a mensch in the world.  Pearl and her sisters (Selma, Velma, and Wilma) grew up on Gingko Street (formerly Smith St) -- a street filled with Jewish and other immigrants, shaded by young, wide leafed, gingko trees. As time progressed, the trees grew, and people moved.  Pearl stayed and the surnames changed.  By the end of the book, Pearl is playing cards and hanging with her neighbors -- neighbors with Asian, African American and Hispanic surnames.  They eat bagels and steamed dumplings, jalapenos and iced tea.  When someone comes to cut down the last remaining gingko tree on the street, Pearl takes action, involves her neighbors, leverages the media, and gets the mayor to save the tree, plant new trees, and try her warm noodle kugel.	2002-06-30
US	49956909	RX0PKY6D799ML	0618173870	420660459	Everything Is Illuminated: A Novel	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Unclose your eyes, and find this premium and absorbing	The Inuit may have dozens of Inuktituk words for snow, and Jews may have dozens of words for putz and schmuck, but in English we must have a dozen words for how good I found this novel. I really don't care about the author's connections, the size of the publisher's advance, or the critical acclaim of this novel. All I know is that I read the book and loved it. It was premium, carnal, and absorbing. Like the main character, the hero, I, too, did a roots search in Eastern Europe, so the book spoke to me even more through its parallel experiences. The two voices in this book are so good, funny, sad, and true. Yes, you may question what is actually illuminated, who is the Jew or non-Jew? Who is the hero? Or whether, like starlight lightyears away, are we illuminations of our ancestors past deeds?  But  stick with it, for the imagery and ideas in this book are too good to not read it. If your book club read Bee Season, Revenge, or The Red Tent, then this is a must for your reading list, since there is so much to discuss.	2002-05-20
US	49956909	R20DAJOFT4UPM5	0811831884	773541349	Judaikitsch: Tchotchkes, Schmattes & Nosherei	Books	5	19	21	N	N	Kvit Kvetching and Become a Kvelling Balebusta	Christian Americans have had marshmallow fluff and Christmas ornaments.  Jews, avoiding graven images, have evaded lots of kitsch (except for chopped liver molds). Sure, maybe you've seen Sesame Street kipahs and Nike swoosh dreidels, but what if Bezalel from the Bible and Martha Stewart mated while reading The Jewish Catalog?  Naturally, you would have the Traig sisters of the West Coast.  This book is not only fun to read, but it provides the instructions on how to create your own kitsch, like the Manischewitz Concord Grape Wine bottle lamp or the Rastafarian Hey-Mohn-Toschen.  Divided into eight parts, there are kitsch projects for everyday, Shabbat, Rosh Hashanah, Sukkot, Hanukkah (burn baby Burn), Purim, Passover, and Shavuot (milk it.  do i make you flemmy, baby?).  So get up off your tucches, break your dreidel shaped pi&ntilde;ata, grab a slice of Hava Tequila Pie, and buy this book.  Highlights include the Neil Sedaka Tzedakah Pushke Box (I used an empty band aids box); the Borscht Belt belt; a black velvet Elvis mizrach for your Eastern wall; the Carmen Miranda fruit filled yarmulke; and votive candles for Jewish patrons (the patron Jew of passive aggressive compliments).  Replace wasabi with horseradish and you have Jew-shi sushi.  Get a jar of Green olives and make some Poi Vey.  Is havdalah havdalah without the Spice girls spice box?  Is it true that there is Jewish Time?  Then make yourself the Jewish Time Zones clock.  The book closes with a Hebonics glossary.  So gather the mishpocheh, and buy the book, cuz this one is a keeper.	2002-05-07
US	49956909	R2AJ6QXNVCAG63	0805070206	949802239	Elvis in Jerusalem: Post-Zionism and the Americanization of Israel	Books	5	13	15	N	N	A fresh perspective on the new commercial culture of Israel	Is VAPID Americanization bad for Israel?  Is national unity a pejorative?  According to Segev, social collectivism is dead, Americanism is thriving in Israel.  Private parties now supplant group celebrations.  If Paul Newman were to reprise his role as Ari Ben Canaan from the 1961 film, &quot;Exodus,&quot; he might portray a capitalist in Ramat Aviv Gimmel, and not a committed Kibbutznik.  Segev feels that more Israeli's pay homage to the Elvis statue at an Elvis Diner on the road to Jerusalem, than to a Herzl statue that stands outside of Herzliya, that beachside bastion of prosperous capitalism.  Personally, aside from this post-Zionist's thesis, the book is worth reading if only for the bounty of tidbits of Israeli social history and the voices of Israel's scholars that are included.  Segev smartly uses a recurring theme of statues, and the reader is left with a fresh look at the future of Israeli society.	2002-05-02
US	49956909	R1NWREBMNM53U7	0393050467	398879823	Nothing Makes You Free: Writings by Descendants of Jewish Holocaust Survivors	Books	5	21	22	N	N	Grow'g up w/traumatized parents makes 4 moving literature	Published just in time for Passover, the holiday of freedom, Melvin Jules Bukiet (STRANGE FIRE, NEUROTICA, SIGNS AND WONDERS, Professor at Sarah Lawrence) has collected some of the works of the children of Shoah survivors, the Second Gen'ers, the \\"2G.\\"  I was drawn to this book by its cover art, in which the sign over the gates to Auschwitz reads \\"NOTHING MAKES YOU FREE\\" instead of the actual \\"WORK MAKES YOU FREE/Arbeit Macht Frei\\".  Included in the book are pieces in English and those translated into English from Italian, French, Serbian, Swedish, Hebrew, German, and Hungarian.  Although these adult \\"CHILDREN\\" grew up around the world, they carry a common literary burden and can spot each other in crowded rooms.  Bukiet (the son of number 108016) asks \\"how atrocity gets filtered through imagination.\\"  This collection helps to answer it.  He writes that if the Holocaust is a historic Rorschach blot, in it the depressive can justify despair, the hopeful can find redemption, and the stupid can discern the triumph of the spirit.  The collected authors grew up as children of a nightmare, children of the khurban that \\"is a black hole that devours the light.\\"  Bukiet explains that they lived with parents that had numbers tattooed on their arms; parents who saw their kids as replacements for murdered family members; parents whose Yiddish language was now as dead as Sanskrit; parents who appreciated life having known death (or resigned themselves to suicide); parents with cauterized tear ducts; and parents who never wasted food at the dinner table, having known hunger intimately.  Their parents lived with the aftermath of atrocity and passed on these psyches to their 2G-Second Generation children (either through speaking of it always or never speaking of it).  Many of the 2G authors are rage filled, angry, cynical, and distrustful.  And This makes for good writing.<br />The authors included in the collection are, in Part 1: Carl Friedman, Eva Hoffman, Victoria Reel, Tammie Bob, Ruth Knafo Setton, Goran Rosenberg, Doron Rabinovici, Alan Kaufman, and Barbara Finkelstein; in Part 2: Savyon Liebrecht, JJ Steinfeld, Thane Rosenbaum, Henri Raczymov, Sonia Pilcer, Lily Brett, Val Vinokurov, Helena Janaczek, Esther Dischereit, and cartoonist Art Spiegelman; and in Part 3: Anne Karpf, Lea Anini, Gila Lustiger, Joseph Skibell, Leon De Winter, Alcina Lubitch Domecq, Mihaly Kornis, Peter Singer, David Albahari, Alain Finkielkraut, and the editor Melvin Jules Bukiet.  I recommend that you read the authors' brief bios before starting to read the collected works.  Not included are authors like David Lehman and David Curzon, who identify as 2G, but whose parents escaped Vienna in 1939; and the journalist, Joseph Berger (Displaced Persons), since he were born slightly prior to May 7, 1945.mie Bob, Ruth Knafo Setton, Goran Rosenberg, Doron Rabinovici, Alan Kaufman, and Barbara Finkelstein; in Part 2: Savyon Liebrecht, JJ Steinfeld, Thane Rosenbaum, Henri Raczymov, Sonia Pilcer, Lily Brett, Val Vinokurov, Helena Janaczek, Esther Dischereit, and cartoonist Art Spiegelman; and in Part 3: Anne Karpf, Lea Anini, Gila Lustiger, Joseph Skibell, Leon De Winter, Alcina Lubitch Domecq, Mihaly Kornis, Peter Singer, David Albahari, Alain Finkielkraut, and the editor Melvin Jules Bukiet.  I recommend that you read the authors' brief bios before starting to read the collected works.  Not included are authors like David Lehman and David Curzon, who identify as 2G, but whose parents escaped Vienna in 1939; and the journalist, Joseph Berger (Displaced Persons), since he were born slightly prior to May 7, 1945.	2002-05-01
US	49956909	R27Z33LW0P1MEJ	9657108381	181560416	Studies on the Haggadah from the Teachings of Nechama Leibowitz	Books	4	13	13	N	N	a unique haggadah that create an active learning seder	Urim Publications has scored a hit with this latest Haggadah (I liked their Rabbi Shlomo Carlebach one, last year).  Little did I know that the late Ms. Nechama Leibowitz was one of Israel's most popular and respected teachers of Jewish theology and Torah.  Two of her students have compiled this classic haggadah based on her Torah study sheets (Gilyonot).  The seder is supposed to be a symposium for eating and active learning, so the format of this Haggadah is a winner, because it consists of Ms. Leibowitz's probing questions and answers that force the seder participants to learn, to draw conclusions independently.  For example, for the Magid, or The Telling of the story of the exodus, Nachama asks, \\"Why does the passage switch from second person singular to second person plural when your read 'In order that you (singular) may tell your child... that you (plural) may no that I am the Lord.'\\"; or for The Four Children, she questions how the rabbis deduced who was the simple and who was the wise child.  When responding to the child \\"Because of THIS, God did for me when I went out of Egypt...\\", Nechama questions what THIS refers to, and asks the reader to compare the commentaries of Rashi, Ibn Ezra, and Rabbi Marinus. When discussing the sojourn of 400 years, Nechama questions the meaning of the cantillation notes and the placement of the \\"etnachta\\" and how it changes the meaning of the passage.  She asks you to contemplate why Rashi wrote that the store cities of Ramses and Pitom already existed.  You are also asked to compare the strategies of Esau, Pharaoh and Haman to those of Gog and Magog.  The section on the hardening of Pharaoh's heart discusses free will, and brings in comments by Sforno and Resh Lakish to help the reader reach a fuller understanding. I recommend one copy for the seder leader or life experiences melamed (not morah), however it is not for the neophyte, since it requires some grounding in Talmud to get the most out of the book.	2002-04-12
US	49956909	R20OQULDM87Y1D	0226548228	553806721	Free to Die for Their Country: The Story of the Japanese American Draft Resisters in World War II (Chicago Series in Law and Society)	Books	5	15	19	N	N	Excellent contrib to Amer. history and profiles of courage	We know about the 120,000 Americans of Japanese heritage who were imprisoned and interned in ten concentration camps in the USA during WWII \\"By Order of President\\" Roosevelt and the Army, in places like Tule Lake, Heart Mountain, and Minidoka.  We know about the young men, the Nisei, who served their country with distinction in the 100th Battalion and 442nd regimental combat team in Italy and Europe, while their families were stripped of their civil rights and property.  But what about those young men who resisted their draft order since they had no civil rights?  What of those who were imprisoned and never pardoned after the war?  In hindsight, weren't they just as courageous?  What about the courage of Federal Judge Louis Goodman?  The author of this book, himself the son of a refugee, the grandson of a man who was sent briefly to Buchenwald from Frankfurt, and was tagged an enemy alien in the USA, has written this excellent, well researched book that will be an excellent resource to students of U.S. history and the fight for civil liberties.	2002-03-24
US	49956909	R3C2HCP2SS5KTK	0609608274	994717786	The Short Sweet Dream of Eduardo Gutierrez	Books	5	30	32	N	N	a sad tale given justice by  a great writer	Justice shall you pursue.  This is Jimmy Breslin at his best, it reads like he talks, which can cause you to read a sentence twice or three times, but you get used to it.  Eduardo Gutierrez was an illegal immigrant from Mexico; he was barely 21 years old when he was killed in a construction accident in Brooklyn on November 23, 1999.  Born in San Mat&iacute;as Cuatchatyotla, to a very shy 15 year old woman, he lived a lonely life filled with fear in Brighton Beach/Brooklyn, sharing one bathroom and an apartment with 8 other illegal men, always in fear of capture and deportation.  His life ended in the Williamsburg section of Brooklyn, when Eduardo fell three stories and drowned in wet cement.  The builder, his employer, hired and exploited illegal workers with impunity.  Breslin characterizes him as \\"a crook with blueprints.\\"  Everyone knew his long record of violations, but he was untouchable; he was a friend of Giuliani administration, his bagman had given Giuliani's campaign $83,000 in 1996.  Eugene O. and his son Richie (a police chaplain wannabee who ran to Belgium to avoid the law he loved so much) were politically connected in the powerful Satmar-Hasidic community.  In 1993, a city inspector cited his construction project as the worst building he had seen in a decade.  After Eduardo's death, the press forgot about him.  But Breslin went to his funeral in Mexico and came back to the USA over the border like the other illegal workers, citing the Border Patrol's stats on drownings and deaths on the route.  This is Eduardo's recreated story, filled with stories of his struggle to get to NYC and the aftermath of his death.  So much of New York is built on illegal labor, so it is important to read	2002-03-24
US	49956909	R2YFU2QSMZOQGO	047140392X	636979797	In the Black: A History of African Americans on Wall Street	Books	5	11	12	N	N	An important brief history	On Wall Street, you are remembered only for your last price, trade, or quarterly report.  History is not dwelled on; today's young leaders probably wouldn't know JP Morgan, Muriel Siebert, or EF Hutton if they tripped over them.  Nor would many even know the names Hornblower, First Harlem, Bache, Hutton, or Shearson.  But, as of this writing, with African Americans leading both Merrill Lynch and Credit Suisse First Boston, it is nice (and necessary) to read a concise history of African Americans on Wall Street.  Did you know that in the 1960's, Merrill Lynch, with 2500 fixed commission brokers, hired only 3 African American brokers?  If not for this book, how many would know of Thorvald McGregor (MercerHicks) and Lawrence Lewis (Abraham &amp; Co) , the first two African American Registered Reps in 1949?  Or Abraham Cowing (FL Salomon); Howard Law grad Norman McGhee (McGhee and Company, the first black NASD securities firm); Philip Jenkins and Earle Fisher (Baruch Brothers) who started Special Markets;  Lilla St John (Oppenheimer), the first black female broker in 1953; June Middleton (Cohen Simonson); Attorney Wylie H. Whisonant (Bache); Clarence B. Jones (Carter, Berlind, Sanford Weill, &amp; Arthur Levitt); or Joseph L Searles (the first black full member of the NYSE in 1970)?  The author, Gregory Bell, is the son of the Travers Bell, who founded the first black-owned member firm of the New York Stock Exchange, so he had deep access to the inside story of the black history of Wall Street.  Although there were a couple of paragraphs that I might not have agreed with (the speculation that African Americans did not invest in equities in the 1950's because they were more concerned with basic civil rights than investing), the book remains an excellent, informative read.  It is especially interesting when discussing the strategies of the early firms (selling mutual funds that required less financial sophistication); the trials of how companies were founded (For example, Daniels and Bell hatched their business plan after seeing The Wiz on Broadway, spent a year trying to get financing, and finally scored some needed fund after Myron Kandell wrote a story on their efforts and Nixon's SEC Chief William Casey pushed through an exemption to some rules for them and influenced his friends to invest in the firm), as well as when discussing the effect of Municipal policies to require that a percentage of their Public Finance business be done with minority owned vendors.e, Daniels and Bell hatched their business plan after seeing The Wiz on Broadway, spent a year trying to get financing, and finally scored some needed fund after Myron Kandell wrote a story on their efforts and Nixon's SEC Chief William Casey pushed through an exemption to some rules for them and influenced his friends to invest in the firm), as well as when discussing the effect of Municipal policies to require that a percentage of their Public Finance business be done with minority owned vendors.	2002-03-16
US	49956909	R2JAD5Q29SQSK5	0688152600	445043539	Vegetables from Amaranth to Zucchini: The Essential Reference: 500 Recipes, 275 Photographs	Books	5	9	12	N	N	seems daunting at first, but isn't as horny as a Kiwano	At first it looked daunting and heavy, but it flows.  For each vegetable, there are pictures, an explanation, other names for the plant, a history (55% of asparagus production is non-green varieties), and instructions on its basic use.  There are instructions on how to select the vegetable, how to store it, and how to prepare it (never eat Rhubarb leaves).  Recipes follow, and a \\"Pros Propose\\" section for each vegetable describes how professional chefs use it. A pre-index lists recipes by category with page numbers (for appetizers, salads, main dishes, etc.).<br />The vegetables include Amaranth, Banana Buds, Purple and White Asparagus (not green), Blewit (a bluish colored mushroom), Chayot, Cresses (as in water, upland, and winter cress, and nasturtium), Yuca, Tindora, Shiitake, Nettle, Sunchoke, Breafruit, Fenugreek, Oca, Orach, Gyromitra, Loofah (Chinese Okra, which is best when stir fried), Arracacha (the Peruvian parsnip/carrot), and the horned Kiwano cucumber.  For those worried that there aren't \\"normal\\" vegetables, be advised that there are pages for potatoes (but only colored, new, and fingerling varieties) and beans (fava, lima, cranberry, haricot, dragon tongue, southern pea, snaps, Romano, Dutch-flat, green, and string).  There are about 37 mushrooms and eight onions varieties described, and over 133 primary vegetables in all.  Even if u never eat more than a potato, the book is an interesting read.	2002-03-11
US	49956909	R1B9JA070HMK2J	1568332289	620638476	From the Holocaust to Hogan's Heroes: The Autobiography of Robert Clary	Books	5	29	33	N	N	A memoir that stands-out from the rest	In recommend this book as a standout memoir for those interested in Holocaust studies, Showbiz lives, and inspiring tales.  Born in France, Clary survived the Nazi death camps.  The book describes Clary's two lives: survival of several Nazi camps, and a career in showbiz afterwards. The last and 14th child of his Polish born Jewish father (and mother), Robert Max Widerman was raised on the Ile St Louis at 10 Rue de Deux Ponts in Paris.  After some neighbors complained to the Vichy French police that Jews still were living in the building, the French police deported Robert and 12 members of his immediate family on 9/23/1942.  Of those deported, only Robert survived.  The book details Clary's arrest in 1942 at the age of 16 and his 31-month-long incarceration in three Nazi concentration camps in Drancy, Upper Silesia, and Poland, as well as Buchenwald, where he was liberated by the Allies on April 11, 1945 (he put on a show for the troops). Would you believe that Clary got his stage name at Buchenwald, and not in some cigar filled Hollywood agent's office?  Clary details how a friend \\"lost\\" his file at Buchenwald, which saved him from sure death on the death march of the prisoners.  After the war, Clary went back to singing inParis and was discovered by Harry Bluestone while entertaining in a dance hall in 1947.  A meeting with Merv Griffin led to an introduction to Eddie Cantor's daughter Natalie, whom he married.  He went on to be discovered on Broadway in \\"New Faces of 1952\\", and then become famous as the character Corporal Louis Lebeau on Hogan's Heroes.  This is an inspirational story of how he survived these two lives.	2002-03-10
US	49956909	RK37KVGB0EWX2	0375506764	529762488	Tepper Isn't Going Out: A Novel	Books	5	19	20	N	N	As delicious as a  &quot;nice&quot;  whitefish	A humorously acerbic novel that is as delicious as a &quot;nice&quot; whitefish.  The critics have made a big tsimmis about this book -- rightly so.  If you have your car in a space that is GFT, good for tomorrow, this book is worth leaving the space to purchase and read.  Murray Tepper loves to park his car in Manhattan.  He knows all the parking rules; he enjoys sitting in his parked car and signaling to other drivers that is not 'going out' of the space.  Tepper's behavior sometimes irritates the people who covet his spot. Murray has perfected a flick of his hand, not too aggressive, to tell people he isn't moving.  It is the same finger wag used by the city's vindictive mayor in a barricaded City Hall to admonish his critics.  Tepper irritates the mayor, Frank Ducavelli  (read as RUDY), known in tabloid headlines as Il Duce-who sees Murray Tepper as a harbinger of what His Honor always calls &quot;the forces of disorder.&quot;  Rudy, I mean Ducavelli has enforced an arcane rule that people cannot hail a taxi from the street, but must hail it from the sidewalk.  He has also attempted to enforce a dress code for city parks.  TRILLIN captures NYC so well, that it is hard to believe that the book is fiction.  The book is filled with those observant nuggets, like food workers who wear gloves, but the gloves are dirty; or the cast of political entrepreneurs who take advantage of issues to promote their causes.  After a story on Tepper in the post-modern East Village &quot;Rag&quot; weekly, fellow New Yorkers become aware of Tepper, a direct mail list maven.  Counter men from Russ and Daughters and even Upper East-Siders come to sit and chat with Tepper in his car.  This is the book that should be selected as the citywide read in 2002.	2002-02-26
US	49956909	R1140ZMEERPS1G	0375505849	445955952	10th Grade: A Novel	Books	4	2	3	N	N	vts-very true statement, a remembrance of things sophomorish	Ahh... the pain of 10th grade makes good fodder for a novel. The novel opens as a journal kept by sophomore Jeremiah Reskin.  Jeremiah and his family live in Hutch Falls, NJ.  Jeremiah Reskin has big plans for tenth grade, his sophomore year in Hutch Falls High School.  He wants to make some friends; he wants to make it to second base with a girl. He wants to improve upon that D+ in Math I, and hang in food courts.  When he meets a group of semi-bohemian outcasts, he learns about group back rubs and bra straps in the basement of one of his friends, the daughter of divorced parents.  There is the death of the grandmother of a friend, thoughts of sex, a bonding trip with dad to a haggle-filled menswear shop in Manhattan (Mo Levitsky's posing as Moe Ginsburgs), and a trip to a bikini department of a large store with a certain, purple-color-loving young woman.  The son of a lawyer, Jeremiah likes malls, orange julius, and a poster of Charlie's Angels.  He is in lust with Renee Shopmaker, the hottest girl in school.  As we read Jeremiah's journal, we relive 10th grade and that is a fun adventurous read. VTS, very true statement.	2002-02-18
US	49956909	R6RLNPNNI0N9Y	0312284152	900832454	Paper Shadows: A Memoir of a Past Lost and Found	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Mo-no juk sum  Makes Good, Eloquently	In anticipation of the lunar new year, I picked up this book.  The author had me under his spell by the second page.  In his memoir of growing up in the 1940's, as the son of Chinese immigrants in Vancouver's Chinatown, the reader learns that Mr. Choy, while on a promotional book tour in 1995, received a call from a woman who says that she just saw his mother.  But his Toisanese mother died nearly two decades earlier, he tells the mysterious caller.  No, the caller replies, she means his `real mother.'  And so the memoir and the mystery begin.  In descriptive language that is hypnotic and nearly as haunting as a ghost filled home his family lived in, an extremely detailed portrait of his life as a young boy is drawn.  In Part 1, his pre-school years are filled with family, Chinglish, mah-jong, lots of single \\"uncles\\" to take him for ice cream, nightly Chinese operas (his mother's version are a permanent barrier against pessimism), cowboy films, and his assertively willful tantrums.  In Part 2, the author writes of his school years, English and Chinese lessons, stubbornness, truancy, confusion, helplessness, his pet dog, the humiliations his father endured at work, and the other concerns of children.  In the last third of the book, Mr. Choy returns as an adult to the mystery of his  and explores the hidden secrets of his family.  Upon close reading, one learns about the stress of living as an Asian in North America during the War, a time when burials were only allowed in Asian-only cemeteries, when sick Asians were housed in the basement of the hospital, when Asians were offered payments to return to Asia if they promised never to return, and when men were not allowed to bring their families or wives over to the Gold Mountain from across the Pacific.  On even closer reading, one can discern how different Chinese identities were crafted in North America by his grandfather, his parents, and finally himself in an in-between'ness third generation.	2002-02-12
US	49956909	R1YM23THMLL8M	1580082696	456582217	The Scent of Orange Blossoms: Sephardic Cuisine from Morocco	Books	5	46	46	N	N	a spice filled welcome addition to Jewish cookbooks	A celebration of Jewish cuisine that came from the interaction between Jews and Moslems in North Africa and Spain.  When the author Kitty Morse led eating tours of Morocco, the highlight was a meal at the villa of retailer Danielle Mamane in Fez el Jdid.  Both women have collaborated on this well designed and interesting book of recipes.  I recommend it for its recipes, design, stories, and photographs.  In addition to recipes, letters between mothers and their newly married daughters, and introductory stories, the authors list menu plans (with recipe page numbers) for the Jewish holidays, as well as the more Moroccan Jewish celebrations of La Mimouna (Pesach period), Hillula (visiting sages), and Kappara (pre-Yom Kippur).  For Jewish weddings, there is the customary flan (t'faya).  For Mimouna, the recommended recipes are Chicken with Orange Juice; Sephardic Mafleta pancakes; and couscous with raisin and onions confit.  My favorite recipes include Walnuts with Pomegranate Seeds (which uses a heavy dose of orange blossom water); a cucumber with lemon salad; fish filets made in Fez style (with tomatoes, potatoes, and garlic); Fresh Fava Bean Soup with Cilantro for Passover; Chicken Couscous with Orange Blossom Water for Yom Kippur; Harira or Lentil and Chickpeas Soup (for Moslem Ramadan and Jewish Yom Kippur break-the-fasts); Meatballs in Onion Cinnamon Sauce, Chicken with Saffron and Ginger and Onions; and Honey Doughnuts for Hannukah.  There are Fish Fillets a la Fassi (Fez style); Dafina Shabbat Stew (skhina);  Chicken with Garbanzo Beans in Tetouan style; and Tangier style Potato Stew that uses preserved beef (kleehe).  The Tagine of Beef uses carrot and turnips as well as cilantro, garlic, ginger, and tumeric.  The Cornish Hens with Fresh Figs uses 12 figs and 12 threads of saffron; the Chicken with Onion and Tomatoes uses toasted almonds, ginger and eight threads of saffron.  Preserved fruits, lemons, and kumquats play an important role in the cuisine.  There is a recipe for Sephardic Shabbat Challa, and the Top of The Shelf spice that is often used; it includes a blending of cinnamon, nutmeg, pepper, allspice, mace, salt and ginger.  La Maguina, a vegetable and meat frittata, is sliced like meatloaf.  Some unique soups and salads are a white and chard soup a la Tangiers; a fennel salad; a tomato and bell pepper salad with garlic, paprika and sugar; fava bean salad with cumin; and tomato with preserved lemons.is a recipe for Sephardic Shabbat Challa, and the Top of The Shelf spice that is often used; it includes a blending of cinnamon, nutmeg, pepper, allspice, mace, salt and ginger.   La Maguina, a vegetable and meat frittata, is sliced like meatloaf.   Some unique soups and salads are a white and chard soup a la Tangiers; a fennel salad; a tomato and bell pepper salad with garlic, paprika and sugar; fava bean salad with cumin; and tomato with preserved lemons.	2002-02-09
US	49956909	R1COBK7GTPC769	9657108330	104496670	Accepting the Yoke of Heaven: Commentary on the Weekly Torah Portion	Books	5	10	10	N	N	unqiue tidbits on the torah portions	The erudite Professor Liebowitz passed away in 1994, but he has left us with fresh thoughts on the weekly Torah portions.  He was a Professor of Science at Hebrew University, having immigrated to Palestine in 1935 at the age of 31.  His commentaries on the weekly parshat reveal his radical ideas on the nature of god and god's relationship to humans, he confronts the nature of prayer, and our concept of holiness in the world.  He promotes the idea of compliance with the law for its own sake, and not for reward or punishment.  For example, take his commentary on Parshat Noach and that the meaning Tower of Babel is to look at the world after the flood.  Was it a world as evil as the pre-flood world?  Was the dispersion of people after Babel a punishment?  Maybe it wasn't a punishment?  Maybe dispersion is a reward, allowing for a difference in thought and practice and decentralization.  Maybe Babel was a story of conformity, centralization and totalitarianism.  Dispersion ended this.  This is a very fresh thought, no?  Or take Parhsat Vayeshev, the story of Jacob and Joseph and Egypt, and the sentence \\"Joseph was BROUGHT DOWN to Egypt.  Is it actually a story of free will and determinism, a story of antinomies and paralogisms.  Leibowitz focuses on midrash and writings that define the word \\"dealing and deeds\\" as \\"making a false accusation.\\"  He delves into the idea of God bringing deeds into the world and upon man, and later places the blame on man for these deeds, and the idea that the strife between the brothers and the sale of Joseph was pre-ordained, since it was known that the Hebrews would be slaves in Egypt for 400 years.  In his four page discussion of Parshat Korach, he ties this parshat to parasha of tzitzit, and the ending sentences of the Shema which is recited daily.  Korach, Leibowitz writes, rebelled against Moses saying \\"for all the community, all of them are holy.\\"  But, Leibowitz continues, the tzitzit idea of holiness (which appears in the paragraph above the Korach story) differs from that of Korach.  The tzitzit concept of holiness is one that should be strived for, it is a goal; while Korach believes it is something that is granted.  Korach has absolved himself of responsibility, he boasts that he is a member of a holy nation, even though he is contemptible.  Are the people holy or do they become holy through their actions and performance of certain tasks?  Guess what, the ideas from Korach did not end when he was swallowed up by the Earth.  It continues today.  If you enjoy these ideas, buy the book and read it.above the Korach story) differs from that of Korach.  The tzitzit concept of holiness is one that should be strived for, it is a goal; while Korach believes it is something that is granted.  Korach has absolved himself of responsibility, he boasts that he is a member of a holy nation, even though he is contemptible.  Are the people holy or do they become holy through their actions and performance of certain tasks?  Guess what, the ideas from Korach did not end when he was swallowed up by the Earth.  It continues today.  If you enjoy these ideas, buy the book and read it.	2002-02-09
US	49956909	R1L8K7BQ5NSRCF	1881283194	199343899	Mark Stark's Amazing Jewish Cookbook for the Entire Family	Books	5	4	4	N	N	The best mix of recipes and illustrations	One of the most fun cookbooks, Jewish or otherwise.  Using cartoons and exciting lettering, Stark offers the readers fun cooking projects for the whole family for Shabbat, Jewish holidays, and other meals.  The recipes are in easy to read step-by-step form and well illustrated.  Recipes include those for roasted chicken, strudel, borsht hallah, bagels, dill pickles, falafel, hummus, hamantaschen, apple sauce, latkas, lox with onions and eggs, matzah, kugel, coleslaw, blintzes, passover dishes, knishes, kasha, soup, and rugalach.. to name a few	2002-01-30
US	49956909	RJ0OGAM8QAPAX	1568217099	782160694	Yiddish Cuisine: A Gourmet Approach to Jewish Cooking	Books	5	5	5	N	N	What?  Only 22 kugel recipes?  I'm kvetching for Gvetch	Did your family eat prakke, holishkes, golobtzes, huloptches, or just staffed cabbage??  Read this book and learn what this means about your family's history.  This book is complete.  Let me put it this way; there are 22 noodle-kugel-lokshen recipes and 7, count them, 7 recipes for chicken soup in this definitive book of classic Ash-kenazic Jewish cuisine.  He includes maps of the Yiddish speaking areas of Europe and a pronunciation guide.  Not only is the book filled with recipes and Yiddish aphorisms, but the author analyzes the history of the Jews through their language and cuisine.  For exmaple, in his analysis of Lithuania and Northern Poland (an area known as Litteh), the popular herbs are understated dill and sorrel. Salmon and herring were the fishes used, and the starch was potato.  Thus Jews from the area made the best potato kugels.  But for non-potato breads, the best Jewish area was the Ukraine, which perfected black breads, challahs and bagels.  Beet borsht eaters were mainly in the Ukraine, fruit soup eaters were in Litteh.  Get the idea?  If your gefilte fish was peppery, think Litteh; if it was sugar sweet, think Galitzia and southern Poland and Hungary. Either way... u have good cooking ahead for u with this book	2002-01-30
US	49956909	R3UPZ0JWF6OLUD	0674006399	773864548	By Order of the President: FDR and the Internment of Japanese Americans	Books	5	18	19	N	N	A very interesting concise political history and unique POV	Few Americans remember that in Winter 1942, weeks after the Japanese attack on the U.S. Navy at Pearl Harbor, Hawaii, officers of the U.S. Army rounded up American citizens of Japanese ancestry on the Pacific coast and sent them to internment camps on the orders of President F.D. Roosevelt  (Executive Order 9066, 2/19/42).  The order never said \\"Japanese\\", but it was directed towards the Issei , the first generation resident aliens who mostly arrived before 1907 and were forbidden by law to become citizens; the Nisei, the American born citizens of the second generation; and the Kibei, those Nisei who had been sent back to Japan for school.  J. Edgar Hoover (FBI) said it was unnecessary as did Atty General Biddle.  But Secretary of War Stimson advocated an \\"evacuation\\" and confiscation of Japanese American property.  This is a fascinating book by Professor Robinson, which attempts to show that FDR himself took an active part in this order, and had his own anti-Japanese motives, both from his accumulated experience in the Navy, the Rape of Nanking, his sense of Japan as a rival, his family's great affection for China (Grandpa Warren Delano lived in Guanzhou), and his friendships with Captain Nomura, O. Matsukatam, and R. Asano.  Whether or not you end up agreeing with the author's thesis, I still recommend this book as an excellent POLITICAL history of the period and the players, including the Federal Reserve (I had never heard of the Alien Land Act of 1913)	2002-01-16
US	49956909	R28LIW5EF1UV2M	0689829728	575943072	The Runaway Rice Cake	Books	5	4	6	N	N	a lesson in giving and generosity for lunar new year	In the footsteps of the runaway gingerbread man, the giving tree, and the runaway latkas, this tale for the lunar new year is colorful and interesting, it rhymes in many places, and teaches the lesson of generosity and how giving will reward you spiritually if not materially in the future.  It includes recipes for baked and steamed nian-gao.	2001-12-14
US	49956909	R1GAE48J2MMT7L	0823415260	947380471	The Story of Chopsticks	Books	4	7	9	N	N	30 minutes after reading it, u want to read it again	I was attracted to this book by the illustrations by Yongsheng Xuan, which are a folklike cross between classic paper cuttings and stained glass renderings.  The story is Ying Chang Compestine's fantasy of how chop sticks (or Kuai-zi (KhWy-zzuh)) (quick sticks) were invented in imperial China over 3,000 years ago.  In addition to the story, the reader gets instructions on how to use chopsticks and a recipe of rice pudding with mangoes, maple, cherries and pineapple.  The story is interesting and it shows how the ingenuity of a child can be accepted by adults.  It also shows how siblings can stand up for each other in the face of adult questioning, and how a family can commercialize an invention for future prosperity.	2001-12-11
US	49956909	R2O5KV85I6THUG	0385326521	925121754	Zigazak! A Magical Hanukkah Night	Books	5	11	12	N	N	an unusual Hanukkah tale that ends with the right msg	It just isn't a Jewish holiday without a new book by Mr Kimmel.  Kimmel (the author of Gershon's Monster) tells the story of how there are sparks of good and &quot;light&quot; in all things.  It is an unusual Hanukkah tale of magic and mischief.  As the residents in the shtetl of Brisk prepare to celebrate the start of the eighth day of Hanukkah, two mischievous creatures descend upon the town. They recite the magic word of ZIGAZAK and they make dreidels dance and latkas fly.  The town's residents, rich and poor, young and old, run to the rabbi, who helps them to understand that when life gives you bad-apples, you make applesauce.  The monsters do not scare the rabbi, and flying latkas are just as tasty as ones that are still.  Using reverse psychology the rabbi might beat the monsters at their own game, and teach everyone that one should bring light from darkness... thus the message of the holiday.	2001-11-26
US	49956909	R3GIJPOWIA35U2	0827607121	479567609	Etz Hayim: Torah and Commentary	Books	5	248	259	N	N	A must have that will influence generations to come	How can one decide to purchase upon a chumash?  I think it can be based on translation, ease of use, and commentaries.  On some Shabbat mornings, I might use three chumashim: the Hertz, the Plaut, and the Fox.  One I use for translation, the others for commentary.  For about seventy years, Conservative/Masorti congregations have chosen to use chumash by Rabbi Hertz, a pre war Chief British rabbi.  Some find it very Thee-Thou-stilted in British English, and somewhat apologetic for Hebrew practices, like animal sacrifice. It reflected the insecurity of Jewish life at the time of its publication.  This new book and keepsake is a replacement for the Hertz chumash.  Etz Hayim was a ten year project, and it reflects the beliefs and ideology of the Conservative movement.  It is not apologetic in tone, it gets rid of Thou Thy and Thee, and it contains some commentaries that are inclusive and feminist in nature.  I like it because the commentary does not sugar coat the actions of the early Hebrews, and it does not hide from the belief in redactors and an evolving Torah.<br />In terms of translation to English, I find Etz Hayim enlightening.  For example, take the first sentences of Parshat Noah (Genesis 6:9-12).  The old Hertz Chumash translates the lines as:  &quot;These are the generations of Noah. Noah was in his generation a man righteous and whole-hearted; Noah walked with god.  And Noah begot three sons: Shem, Ham and Japheth.  And the earth was corrupt before god and the earth was filled with violence.  And god saw the earth, and behold, it was corrupt; for all flesh had corrupted their way upon the earth.&quot;  When you compare this to the UAHC Plaut translation, generations of Noah becomes \\"the line of Noah\\", and whole-hearted becomes \\"Blameless in his age.\\"  Violence is translated as \\"lawlessness.\\"  In the Art Scroll  edition, the \\"generations\\" is translated as \\"offspring of Noah\\", violence is \\"corrupted\\", whole-hearted is \\"perfect in his generation\\" robbery, and violence is \\"robbery\\".<br />The new ETZ HAYIM translates it as: &quot;This is the line of Noah - Noah was a righteous man; he was blameless in his age, Noah walked with god - Noah begot three sons; Shem Ham and Japheth. The earth became corrupt before god; The earth was filled with lawlessness.  When god saw how corrupt the earth was, for all flesh had corrupted its ways on earth.\\"  I find it the best amalgamation of the others<br />In terms of order and structure: the Etz Hayim is right to left in format, uses a very clear voweled Hebrew font, is well indexed, and includes the Haftorah, both Ash-kenaz and if necessary, S'farad, after each parshat.  A P'SHAT commentary which is based on the JPS five volume commentary (by Tigay, Sarna, Levine, and Milgrom) follows under the main text and was edited by Rabbis Lieber and Chaim Potok.  A D'RASH section of commentary, edited by Rabbi Harold Kushner, follows on each page of text.  It provides the deeper moral meanings of the passage.  A running commentary, in shaded boxes, edited by Rabbis Dorff and Grossman, shows how various biblical verses serve as the basis for Jewish Halakha and Conservative practices. The commentaries for the Haftorahs were edited by Rabbi Michael Fishbane.  The book closed with 41 essays by leading scholars and rabbis (including Wolpe, Tigay, Scolnic, Hammer, Tucker, Gillman, Sarna, Gordis, Orenstein, Hauptman, and Hanan Alexander).<br /><br />But the best part of Etz Hayim, I think, are the commentaries. The old HERTZ elucidated on the words whole-hearted, righteous, all flesh, and &quot;Noah walked with God&quot; (comparing Noah's walking with God as a father and young son, to Abraham's walking before God, as a stronger more morally mature leader.)  The Art Scroll includes Midrash from Abarbabel, Rashi, and others on why deeds are mentioned before the names of sons, why the sons are not listed in birth order, and discusses whether Noah is being praised or criticized.  The WG Plaut chumash comments on the word lawlessness.  However, The ETZ HAYIM follows its direct translations with a PSHAT commentary on how the Hebrew Noah flood story compares with other Near Eastern cultural flood accounts; it retranslates &quot;this is the line of Noah&quot; in to &quot;This is the story of Noah:; it compares the idea of righteous (tzadik) with that of blameless (tamim); it mentions that the root word for &quot;corrupt&quot; is mentionned seven times in the narrative; and it discusses that &quot;all flesh' includes animals.  In its D'RASH section, Etz Hayim discusses how Noah first gave birth to his good deeds before his children.  It then quotes Talmudic sages, such as Resh Lakish, on whether Noah was righteous relative to his generation or in absolute terms.  It continues that &quot;lawlessness&quot; (hamas) results in people losing respect for governments and fairness, leading to anarchy.<br />Whew, and that is just for the four sentences in Genesis 6:9-12!  You can see why I highly recommend this new chumash.nts on the word lawlessness.  However, The ETZ HAYIM follows its direct translations with a PSHAT commentary on how the Hebrew Noah flood story compares with other Near Eastern cultural flood accounts; it retranslates &quot;this is the line of Noah&quot; in to &quot;This is the story of Noah:; it compares the idea of righteous (tzadik) with that of blameless (tamim); it mentions that the root word for &quot;corrupt&quot; is mentionned seven times in the narrative; and it discusses that &quot;all flesh' includes animals.  In its D'RASH section, Etz Hayim discusses how Noah first gave birth to his good deeds before his children.  It then quotes Talmudic sages, such as Resh Lakish, on whether Noah was righteous relative to his generation or in absolute terms.  It continues that &quot;lawlessness&quot; (hamas) results in people losing respect for governments and fairness, leading to anarchy.  <br />Whew, and that is just for the four sentences in Genesis 6:9-12!  You can see why I highly recommend this new chumash.	2001-11-12
US	49956909	R28TBH1RCX92JJ	1584300337	507882718	Where on Earth is My Bagel? (Avenues)	Books	5	11	13	N	N	Cultural imperialism?  no, just the desire for a nice treat	Dear New York,<br />I would like to order one bagel to go.<br />Please send it to me as soon as possible.<br />Respectfully yours,<br />Yum Yung in Korea<br />Did Yum Yung dream of cream cheese and a bagel? Did he hear Central Park sparrows twitter about bagel crumbs?  Why would he desire a NY bagel?  Yum Yung lives in a part of Korea where there are many things, lilacs and waterfalls, streams of daring fish, but no New York bagels.  But he knows he must have one.  Yum Yung is obsessed with the idea of a bagel.  He declares, &quot;I want a bagel!&quot;  He sends a message from his Korean village via pigeon to New York City for someone to send him one.  As he waits, he asks some locals for help: a farmer, fisherman, and a honeybee keeper.  They know their trades and crafts well, but none of them have ever heard of the elusive, holed bagel.  A bagel is not a round plow wheel, a salty round life saving ring, or a circle of honey bees. Hmmm, Yum Yung knows just where to get flour, sea salt, and honey.  He runs for the Heavenly Bakery, and the pigeon returns from across the ocean, sans bagel, but with a recipe. The baker gets the required ingredients from the boy's new friends and they all make one huge bagel. Bagel shapes abound, including a full moon with a the hole in the middle.	2001-11-06
US	49956909	R1U86PLJ2J3XUM	0805062424	311150328	In My New Yellow Shirt	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Mellow	When the author's son, Sean, was about four, he got a new yellow shirt and thought that he was a banana.  In this picture book, the author thinks of that incident and tells the story of a boy and his friend, Sam.  The birthday boy gets a new yellow shirt from his Aunt Betty.  He puts it on and he is a splashing duck, a roaring golden lion, a zooming taxi, a daffodil, a fish, and a lazy bug.  He is many other things set in a variety of scenes, even a trumpet in a parade, and a thumping banana in a kitchen.  As night falls, the shirt must be taken off, but it becomes something else that will illuminate the night.	2001-11-05
US	49956909	R345KOFHKQ2C89	0811831779	795700418	Red is a Dragon	Books	5	11	12	N	N	a bright and colorful world	Illustrator Grace Lin's use of color and curly cue backgrounds are more than half the reason to buy this book.  In short verse, the reader and female protagonist is introduced to very bright colors and a red dragon and firecrackers, red melons and lychees on green backgrounds, orange crabs on the sand in your hand, yellow incense sticks and taxis, green gourds and toads, green jade that mom and daughter share, blue sneakers, purple kites, pink peonies, and white dumplings to share with a brother.  What colors surround you??  A glossary of ten words closes the book.	2001-11-05
US	49956909	R1WIKXPFDDJU9U	0792277236	899133939	Happy Birthday Mr. Kang	Books	5	1	1	N	N	i know why the caged bird sings?	This unique book of text passages in a &quot;cutout font&quot; over illustrated collages is dedicated to the author's uncle, John Kang, and based on a New York Times article from June 1994.  Mr Kang is having his 70th birthday party in New York City's Chinatown.  There with his friends, family, and grandson, he makes three wishes: To read The New York Times every morning, to paint a poem each day, and to have his own caged hua mei bird, which will go with him every Sunday to Sara Delano Roosevelt Park.  As the reader continues through the book, its story, poems, and its collages (one of a background of Chinese menus, another of alters, another of NYT newsprint, one of SDR Park), Sam is met.  Sam, Mr Kang's grandson, comes to visit his grandparents for the weekend.  On Sunday, he, his grandfather, the hua mei bird, and a warm cake from his grandmother make their way after dawn to the park.  Soon there are 27 other caged bird there waiting to sing.  Sam wonders whether it is right to keep the bird caged, just like grandpa was caged to his work before retirement.  Will grandpa let the bird fly free?  What do grandma and the retired men think?  What does the hua mei bird desire?  Read and discover.	2001-11-05
US	49956909	RJBDQX35ZCMZM	0060916125	581879090	The True Believer	Books	4	46	51	N	N	An important read for 2001	The True Believer is an oldie but goodie.  First published in 1951, it should be read today.  It is on the psychology of mass movements and how they can transform practical purposes in to holy causes.  Half the book is on the mental state of the fanatical true believer.  Part 1 is about mass movements and their appeal.  Part 2 is about the psychology of the potential convert.  This believer will possess a belief in an irresistible power, whether it be Marxism (for Bolsheviks), Blitzkrieg (Nazis), Man's Reason (French Revolution), or Islam.  In Part 3, Hoffer focuses on the factors that promote self sacrifice and the unifying effect that common hatred of a tangible enemy, suspicion, imitation, or other agents can have.  The book closes with a discussion of good and bad mass movements.  Especially interesting to the reader in late 2001 will be the discussion on the fervently enthusiastic adherents who are ready to die for the movement.  The author begins with the hypothesis that frustrated people are drawn to mass movements in its revivalistic phase, and it is the frustration of the adherent that can be directed and channeled by the movement.  He writes that the adherent will be discontented but not destitute, and believe that through their possession of a potent doctrine or infallible leader, they will possess irresistible power.  Many will find mass movements appealing so that they can self-renunciate themselves, or rid themselves of the unwanted self; a lost faith in oneself is substituted for faith in the movement.  In Hoffer's discussion of the interchangeability of movements, he goes on to posit that the adherent is ripe for any movement, and can be receptive to another movement (Attention Pakistan... redirection of adherents is possible)	2001-10-28
US	49956909	REDHKFTBM5XOO	0312261888	462456139	The Bus Driver Who Wanted to Be God & Other Stories	Books	4	11	17	N	N	so absurd, so hip, so so	Over twenty short, popular, absurd Israeli stories about life in Israel and elsewhere.  Maybe it is the translation or the cultural differences, but some of the stories start out with great promise and creative ideas but just fizzle out into absurdity rather than comedy.  Most, though, are fine.  Pleasingly the stories are short, each about five pages long.  There is the one about a woman who runs a grocery at the gate to Hell in Uzbekistan, or the story about the man named Goodman who becomes a badman in Texas.  The title story is about an obsessive bus driver who tries to stay on time and who doesn't open the doors for late passengers (why should 30 people lose 30 seconds each so one person doesn't have to wait an additional 15 minutes).  But one of his passengers has a disease that makes him late, and he has finally found the love of his life, and cannot be late to the Dolphinarium to meet her.  Will the bus driver wait?  There is the story about the flight attendant who falls for a passenger.  In \\"Uterus\\", the narrator tells the story of his mother who had her uterus removed.  It was so beautiful, it was placed in a museum, and when the narrator grew older and had his own family, he would take his children to visit their grandmother's uterus.  In \\"Shoes\\", a young boy gets a gift of German-branded sneakers a few weeks after commemorating Holocaust Remembrance Day; he is conflicted.  In \\"Pipes\\", a young student's single wrong answer on a test gets him pegged as suffering from perceptual disorders, forcing him to go to trade school, where he learns that it isn't the smart and strong people who first learned to use clubs, it was the weak and abused.  In a story about \\"Alon Shemesh\\", Alon is absent from school, so his friend takes his homework home to him.  The next day that friend is absent, and one by one, as others take the homework to the absent students, they too disappear.  And then the teacher goes to make a sick call on the boys...  The collection includes stories from Keret's other books: Pipelines, and Missing Kissinger.ories from Keret's other books: Pipelines, and Missing Kissinger.	2001-10-25
US	49956909	R1IRNTOQRBP4AR	1587680033	582361064	The Spiritual Traveler: New York City : The Guide to Sacred Spaces and Peaceful Places	Books	5	9	9	N	N	A Must Read for Every Astute New Yorker or pilgrim	NYC has about 13 retreats, 471 Baptist, 403 Catholic, 437 Jewish, 391 Pentecostal, 163 Episcopalian, 60 Islamic and 1 Bahai religious centers (to name but a few).  The book's author, Edward F. Bergman is chairman of geographic studies at CUNY's Lehman College.  The book is the must read for astute New Yorkers and tourists.  It is eminently enlightening about the city's history, its architecture and its religious progression.  As Bergman writes, from the early 17th Century, the chief religion of the non-Native Americans of the New Netherlands was the (Dutch) Reformed Church of Protestants, which spawned the Collegiate system of churches (read it and you will discover why they are called Collegiate Churches).  As new settlers arrived, and New Amsterdam became British, new churches were established, persecuted, tolerated, and then in most cases, accepted.  In the first chapter, Bergman includes brief histories for the major NYC religions, including Quaker, Adventist, and Sikh.  In the second chapter, he discusses the architectural elements found in houses of worship and their origins.  The styles explained include that of the basilica, cruciform with transepts, Gothic nave, Greek cross, and narthexporch, as well as those of Wren-Gibbs, Georgian, Greek Revival, Gothic Revival, High Victorian Gothic, Gothic, Romanesque Revival, and Renaissance Revival.  He explains why some Protestant churches did away with their stained glass windows.  The reader will also learn about the mihrab of a mosque, the Sikh gurdwara, and the Hindu rajagopuram, and along the way learn about religious history and the lives of saints and other clerics.  In Chapters 3 through 9, Bergman describes the houses of worship by neighborhood.  In Chapter 3, for example, the buildings of Downtown Manhattan are discussed.  For each worship location, the address and architect are listed.  For Trinity Church there are four pages of history; the African Burial Ground is discussed in three, as is the Eldridge Street Synagogue.  Did you know that you can find the largest Buddha in the area at Mahayara, that the Sung Tak Buddhist Temple was formerly a Kalwarie shul, The Middle Reformed Coll. Church has its own Liberty Bell dating to 1729, or that the Beth Hamedrash Hagadol (1885) was the seat of NYC's short-lived Chief Rabbi in 1899?  The book answers why the German Catholic Church of the Most Holy Redeemer is built so high, and why J.P Morgan supported St George's Episcopal Church to the extent he did.  Every few pages there is a shaded section that explains a topic, such as &quot;the Greek Temple style in NYC&quot;; &quot;The Influence of the Reverend George Whitefield in the early 18th Century&quot;; &quot;the Jesuit Teilhard de Chardin and his noospere&quot;; &quot;The Draft Riot of 1863&quot;; &quot;Fulton Sheen and his ratings war with Milton Berle&quot;; and &quot;Churches and Multipurpose Buildings.&quot;  Bergman also includes an &quot;Around the Corner&quot; paragraph after several listings to point out other attractions, like the harrowing offshore Merchant Marine Sculpture in Battery Park.  Jewish readers will especially be fascinated by the histories, designs, and evolutions of the Manhattan synagogues.  The book closes with a glossary, bibliography, large index, and list of websites.treet Synagogue.  Did you know that you can find the largest Buddha in the area at Mahayara, that the Sung Tak Buddhist Temple was formerly a Kalwarie shul, The Middle Reformed Coll. Church has its own Liberty Bell dating to 1729, or that the Beth Hamedrash Hagadol (1885) was the seat of NYC's short-lived Chief Rabbi in 1899?  The book answers why the German Catholic Church of the Most Holy Redeemer is built so high, and why J.P Morgan supported St George's Episcopal Church to the extent he did.  Every few pages there is a shaded section that explains a topic, such as &quot;the Greek Temple style in NYC&quot;; &quot;The Influence of the Reverend George Whitefield in the early 18th Century&quot;; &quot;the Jesuit Teilhard de Chardin and his noospere&quot;; &quot;The Draft Riot of 1863&quot;; &quot;Fulton Sheen and his ratings war with Milton Berle&quot;; and &quot;Churches and Multipurpose Buildings.&quot;   Bergman also includes an &quot;Around the Corner&quot; paragraph after several listings to point out other attractions, like the harrowing offshore Merchant Marine Sculpture in Battery Park.  Jewish readers will especially be fascinated by the histories, designs, and evolutions of the Manhattan synagogues.  The book closes with a glossary, bibliography, large index, and list of websites.	2001-10-23
US	49956909	RATKK8NB05CJT	0446528382	344910126	Jack: Straight from the Gut	Books	5	18	23	N	N	He'll kick ya, curse ya, hug ya, and love ya if u r Class A	I was attracted to this book for two reasons.  First, of course, Jack Welch is the most celebrated CEO of an American-based company of the past half decade.  Second, it was written with John Byrne, and I believe that Byrne, after 1,000 hours of interviews, and past books on the early brain trust at Ford, Scully at Apple; the evil Al Dunlap, and a book on cancer causing product defects, knows the salient issues for a CEO book.  And so, last week, I completed two books on life at General Electric.  In both, the narrators became so frustrated by the firms bureaucracy and sloth that they tendered their resignations.  In In Good Company by James Martin, he leaves GE to become a Jesuit priest.  In Jack by Jack Welch, he is talked out of his resignation, stays, and becomes the firms celebrated CEO and Chairman.  I approached Jack warily; I was so disappointed with other recent CEO books by Viacoms Redstone and Disneys Eisner.  I was even more wary of the book when the first chapter opened with the story of Mr. Welchs seventh consecutive high school hockey team loss and followed with his humble origins (just as Iacocca started with his firing at Ford, Redstones began with his surviving a hotel fire, Al Dunlap injures a muscle, and Eisners has chest pains)  But my cynicism was proved wrong.  This book is the best since Sam Waltons autobiography.  Welch is honest.  He admits that he is extremely competitive, loud, impatient, and abrasive.  And he lies to himself about his height (saying that he is 1.5 inches taller than he is).  There is even a glimpse of sex and death in the book, when, as a doctoral student, he is caught by a cop on a car-date with his pants down, and when he is having a heart attack, he runs into a hospital, hops on a gurney and starts screaming emotionally.  He also spends a whopping 2 short paragraphs on his divorce from his first wife.<br />He writes that he got the top job at age 44 even though the HR head felt he had significant limitations, was detailed, arrogant, and emotionally overreacted.  Welch discusses his impatience, brashness, his proactivity of asking for promotions and assignments, his audacity to ask to remain in Pittsfield even though all senior staff had to move to the NYC area, and his penchant for BOTH kicking and hugging his staff (his advice to one underling was to fire 5 of his 6 direct reports).  The other reviews posted here tell you what you need to know.  My only addition is that I found Part 2 to be the most valuable section, especially Chapters 11 and 12.  In them, the reader learns about how Welch took control of GE.  We learn the source of the Sell, Fix, or Close to be #1 or #2 in high margin growth businesses philosophy (Drucker), and his sale of three businesses, including GE small appliance housewares.  He discusses how he thought of boundarylessness while on a vacation island and he discusses how he forced his managers to face realities and contradict others forecasts (How could they believe that they could sell new nuclear reactors after 3-Mile Island?).  In Chapter 11, Welch discusses the candor and openness of the Vitality Curve and his ranking of managers into three classes and ridding the company of the bottom 10%.  The Class C managers should get no raises.  He writes that he is doing them a benevolent favor, since they arent growing at GE.  He gives credit to Noel Tichy and Crotonville.  He also describes his Work-Out sessions, and his four Es: Energy, Energize, and Edge, but also an ability to Execute passionately.he had significant limitations, was detailed, arrogant, and emotionally overreacted.  Welch discusses his impatience, brashness, his proactivity of asking for promotions and assignments, his audacity to ask to remain in Pittsfield even though all senior staff had to move to the NYC area, and his penchant for BOTH kicking and hugging his staff (his advice to one underling was to fire 5 of his 6 direct reports).  The other reviews posted here tell you what you need to know.  My only addition is that I found Part 2 to be the most valuable section, especially Chapters 11 and 12.  In them, the reader learns about how Welch took control of GE.  We learn the source of the Sell, Fix, or Close to be #1 or #2 in high margin growth businesses philosophy (Drucker), and his sale of three businesses, including GE small appliance housewares.  He discusses how he thought of boundarylessness while on a vacation island and he discusses how he forced his managers to face realities and contradict others forecasts (How could they believe that they could sell new nuclear reactors after 3-Mile Island?).  In Chapter 11, Welch discusses the candor and openness of the Vitality Curve and his ranking of managers into three classes and ridding the company of the bottom 10%.  The Class C managers should get no raises.  He writes that he is doing them a benevolent favor, since they arent growing at GE.  He gives credit to Noel Tichy and Crotonville.  He also describes his Work-Out sessions, and his four Es: Energy, Energize, and Edge, but also an ability to Execute passionately.	2001-10-03
US	49956909	RFUNAVH6Q90Q7	0299175103	481087109	Habeas Codfish: Reflections on Food and the Law	Books	5	11	11	N	N	This guys HATES catsup, but the book is still great	As the author writes, food is more than nutrients, It is our culture, and thus our laws reflect our cultural attitudes towards food.  I picked up this fish-tale of laws by a curator of a mustard museum after I coincidentally attended a mustard festival.  Levenson's book requires no pre-knowledge of the law; it provides an exciting, funny, enlightening story of food and our laws.  Levenson writes that he toiled at a boring law job until he came across an exciting law case from 1924, in which a man sued a railroad and restaurant chain for requiring diners to wear dinner jackets.  Now that was an interesting case (the barbaric diner lost), he thought.  It got Levenson on a roll of researching and collecting food laws.  The reader is the beneficiary.<br />The author provides stories and cases on food poisoning; the origins of the USDA FSIS, FTC and FDA; adulteration; advertising claims; and federal regulations defining peanut butter, catsup, fancy and standard ketchup.  Also explored are The Delaney Clause, the labeling act, the Lanham Act, the doctrine of privity, the condom in the coke and other stories of foreign objects, fish bone choking cases, and stories about trademarks, such as the case between Planter's Mr. Peanut and Crown Nut's little peanut king.  There is a whole chapter on kosher laws, state regulations, and kosher fraud.  He explains why restaurant reviews can get around libel laws, why 60 Minutes was sued over an Alar story, and Oprah got in trouble with big beef.  A Wisconsin resident, he tells the tale of how a state tried to stop Dairy Queen and margarine from crossing its statelines.<br />Hilarious synopses of cases are also included in easily readable form, including stories about the robber who left his fingerprints behind on a pack of hotdogs; the court that convicted a man of assault with an edible weapon (a salami); the man who sued a restaurant over having to pay a mandatory 15 percent tip for his party of `six or more'; the murderer who was put to death and whose last words complained that \\"I didn't get my SpaghettiOs\\" for his final meal; a 1962 case over a hard stale roll; and the Dept of Justice's prohibition (using the Clayton Act) of Mrs. Smith Pies purchase of LJ Harris Pie Company (so they couldn't get a bigger piece of the pie (market)).<br />Levenson also explains the law behind how Pizza Hut was able to sue Papa John's pizza over tomato sauce commercials, and why, in Liebeck vs McDonald's, a 79 year old woman, Stella, was INITIALLY awarded $2.86 million over a spilled cup of hot coffee.  (She only wanted $20,000, McDonald's offered $800, and then the lawyers got involved).  Buy it and read it before you take another bite!put to death and whose last words complained that \\"I didn't get my SpaghettiOs\\" for his final meal; a 1962 case over a hard stale roll; and the Dept of Justice's prohibition (using the Clayton Act) of Mrs. Smith Pies purchase of LJ Harris Pie Company (so they couldn't get a bigger piece of the pie (market)).  <br />Levenson also explains the law behind how Pizza Hut was able to sue Papa John's pizza over tomato sauce commercials, and why, in Liebeck vs McDonald's, a 79 year old woman, Stella, was INITIALLY awarded $2.86 million over a spilled cup of hot coffee.  (She only wanted $20,000, McDonald's offered $800, and then the lawyers got involved).  Buy it and read it before you take another bite!	2001-09-23
US	49956909	R1P14P5G4ICEJM	1565547659	116657882	Toby Belfer and the High Holy Days (Toby Belfer Series)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	L'Shana Tovah Y'all	Swaying on her suburban porch swing, Toby asks her best friend, Donna, for forgiveness.  The High Holy Days are here, it is Rosh Hashana, and Toby heard her rabbi's sermon on the topic of repentence and change.  She is sorry for teasing Donna's younger brother.  Toby then explains to Donna the high holy days and their meaning, the synagogue in the city, apples and honey, Yom Kippur, Kol Nidre, challah (though the illustration doesn't draw it round), and the shofar.  The book ends with a honey cake recipe from Toby's late Gram'.	2001-09-09
US	49956909	R6HT36WQU0BDI	0763606588	648958093	The Friday Nights of Nana	Books	4	1	2	N	N	A Warm and Airy Shabbat Tale	It is early Friday morning (7 A.M. if you look at the tiny clock in the intricate illustration), when a young girl meets her Nana for bread and sweet peach jam. But there are bed to be made, ironing to do, china to place, cadlesticks to polish, a pie to roll out and bake, challah to braid and make. They go on a windy walk along a geese filled riverside park. There are violet colored flowers to purchase; Shabbat is approaching. The relatives arrive, the candles are kindled, it's cold outside, but a warm Shabbat inside. Great illustrations with intricately detailed gems	2001-09-09
US	49956909	R328PH82OZAHE7	0688169082	647447857	At the Entrance to the Garden of Eden: A Jew's Search for God with Christians and Muslims in the Holy Land	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Traveling the Terrain with an Open Heart &amp; Healthy Skepticm	Legend says that the entrance to the Garden of Eden was located at the Machpelah, the Hebron (el Khalil) burial site of Abraham and Sarah, Isaac and Rebecca, and Jacob and Leah; the pilgrimage site of Jews and Moslems; the mosque and makeshift synagogue; the \\"doubling\\" oneness site that encompasses several conflicting faiths.  It is here that Palestinian Peugeots and Jewish Mitsubishis could meet.  It is here that the author embarks on a journey into opening one's heart.  The author is known for his book, \\"Confessions of a Jewish Extremist\\", and for being the subject of the 1985 award winning documentary \\"KADDISH\\".  An American-born Israeli Jew, raised by a survivor in isolationist Brooklyn, he is a contributor to the NYT Op-Ed page, The Jerusalem Report, and TNR.  He didn't support occupation, nor did he support the crumbling Oslo Plan.  He did not want to be an self-confident oppressor or a fool.  What was he to do?  Meditation and prayer?  Maybe meeting his fellow spiritual seekers among Israel's 800,000 Moslems and 200,000 Christians would succeed in finding a new path to peace.  Beginning in early 1998, at the cusp of the Millennium, Yossi spent two years in dialogue with other spiritual seekers; most were sadly on the fringe, some might even be seen as delusional (but it is a start).  Those two years allowed for experiences that cannot be repeated today without potential calamity.  Yossi expanded his sacred time to include their holiday celebrations.  Could faith, which in Israel is a force of division and conflict, be a source of healing?  Could the religions that had conflicting claims on the land be viewed as reinforcements of the area's holiness?  Halevi, who did not know the difference between the Assumption and the Annunciation, between Id el-Fitr and Id ed-Adha, who knew more about Buddhism than his sister faiths, met with Sufis, Monks, Nuns, Imams, and Sheiks in mosques, monasteries, grottos and cloisters. There was a little skepticism, and some commonality; there was resentment, there is honesty.  In Part 1, Ramadan and Id Eil-Adha, the author, residing in French Hill, tries to incorporate the muezzin's call to prayer from neighboring Anata into his daily devotional prayers.  Can the minaret be a lighthouse in the rocky seas of the West Bank, or is it a megaphone of hate?  He seeks out Sheikhs, Sufis and other Moslems; some center on death, others on love and life. He explores whether people can focus on the unifying messages of the religions rather than debating the conflicting details.  In Part 2, Lent, Easter, and Christmas, Yossi seeks out nuns, monks, Christians and Catholics, Armenians and Ethiopians.  Can he learn silence, can they learn not to convert this &quot;perfidious&quot; person, can they no longer judge each other by their people's worst traits?  In Part 3, Feast of the Transfiguration and Lailat al-Miraj, and the Epilogue, Yossi confronts and struggles with his worst anxieties, doubts and fears.nality; there was resentment, there is honesty.  In Part 1, Ramadan and Id Eil-Adha, the author, residing in French Hill, tries to incorporate the muezzin's call to prayer from neighboring Anata into his daily devotional prayers.  Can the minaret be a lighthouse in the rocky seas of the West Bank, or is it a megaphone of hate?  He seeks out Sheikhs, Sufis and other Moslems; some center on death, others on love and life. He explores whether people can focus on the unifying messages of the religions rather than debating the conflicting details.  In Part 2, Lent, Easter, and Christmas, Yossi seeks out nuns, monks, Christians and Catholics, Armenians and Ethiopians.  Can he learn silence, can they learn not to convert this &quot;perfidious&quot; person, can they no longer judge each other by their people's worst traits?  In Part 3, Feast of the Transfiguration and Lailat al-Miraj, and the Epilogue, Yossi confronts and struggles with his worst anxieties, doubts and fears.	2001-09-09
US	49956909	R48K7D21E2YGG	0060275014	826981261	Sound the Shofar!: A Story for Rosh Hashanah and Yom Kippur	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Recommended for ages 3 to 6	It's Rosh Hashana.  Uncle jake is practicing the Shofar.  All the relatives come for dinner.  There are candles, wine, apples, honey, and a round challah.  Even the cats lick up some honey for a sweet new year.  At the synagogue the rabbi and cantor, a man and a woman (which is which?  hehe), lead the congregation and a portly Uncle Jake sounds the Shafar.  For Yom Kippur, there is a collection of canned goods for a food bank tzedakah contribution, and a chance to change our ways.  Finally, it's evening, and Uncle Jake sounds the neillah Shofar	2001-09-09
US	49956909	R1S15VNLTGKIV2	0395902452	747677104	The Algeria Hotel: France, Memory, and the Second World War	Books	5	26	27	N	N	fascinating and illuminating, uncovers the myths of the past	Should sleeping dogs be left to lie (or tell lies)? There are those who wish not to remember, and those who find it difficult to forget.  In 1966, Adam Nossiter was six years of age and living in Paris' 14e with his family.  His father was a reporter for The Washington Post, covering France and President de Gaulle. His father was enamored with the big-nosed President.  It was a time that you heard &quot;[ I / That person ] was in the resistance&quot; as much as you heard &quot;Bonjour.&quot;  De Gaulle promoted the myth that all of France was in the Resistance against Hitler and that the Vichy government was benign.  Not even the Jews of France and the Marais discussed the deportations of 25% of their co-religionists.  The film, &quot;The Sorrow and the Pity,&quot; was banned from French television.  Why mess up a pleasant life and a myth-based collective conscious with reality, let's just forget.  As a child, Nossiter remembers that he stayed away from their home's sewing room. It was the place where it was said that the prior tenant, Thierry de Martel, a famed brain surgeon (but a right wing, anti Semitic French nationalist) killed himself when German troops entered Paris in June 1940. The sewing room cast a shadow on the author's childhood, just a WWII, its war crimes, and its myths cast a shadow on French society to this day.<br />In light of the recent trend of some French citizens to face the truth about not only Vichy collaboration, but Vichy's striving to do rid the country of democracy and the republique and replace it with authoritarian rule, Nossiter travels to three towns in France to illuminate France's population and their legacy of WWII. He lives there over 3 years. His quotes the papers from the time, its ads, the trials, its calls for a Juif-free culture.  In Bordeaux, he follows the unsettling six month trial of 87 year old Maurice Papon, who stood accused of deporting 8 of 10 trains of 1,560 French Jews to their deaths (as the post-war head of the police in Paris under de Gaulle, he also helmed the murders of dozens of Algerian protestors).  The trial provokes the population and stirs up memories; it is seen as an irritation by many of the old guard.  In a dilapidated Vichy, the seat of the collaborationist government, the author researches what really happened during the war, and what myths were created about collaboration and resistance.  Why were only 28,000 of the 1.5 million Vichy functionaries ever reprimanded?  Is living in Vichy like residing in a town named Dachau?  Why should Vichy take the blame when Petain was just as popular in Paris?  In Tulle, a town relatively shielded from the war, he listens for the echoes of a Nazi massacre that occurred in June 1944. Nossiter, a former reporter for The NYT and the Atlanta Journal Constitution brings to French History the same keen observations that he brought to his previous work on Mississippi and the Murder of Medgar Evers.  Can a time of illogic be judged from the current time of logic? How do you live with the past? How do the victims continue to live with the persecutors? How do myths make life easier? Nossiter's writing style pulls you in with the force of a whirlpool.  By the way, for those wondering about the title, the Algeria Hotel in Vichy housed the offices of the Commissariat Generale aux Questions Juives (but if you ask some of people who worked for the commission, they will tell you to this day that they didn't know what went on there)he police in Paris under de Gaulle, he also helmed the murders of dozens of Algerian protestors).   The trial provokes the population and stirs up memories; it is seen as an irritation by many of the old guard.  In a dilapidated Vichy, the seat of the collaborationist government, the author researches what really happened during the war, and what myths were created about collaboration and resistance.  Why were only 28,000 of the 1.5 million Vichy functionaries ever reprimanded?  Is living in Vichy like residing in a town named Dachau?  Why should Vichy take the blame when Petain was just as popular in Paris?   In Tulle, a town relatively shielded from the war, he listens for the echoes of a Nazi massacre that occurred in June 1944. Nossiter, a former reporter for The NYT and the Atlanta Journal Constitution brings to French History the same keen observations that he brought to his previous work on Mississippi and the Murder of Medgar Evers.  Can a time of illogic be judged from the current time of logic? How do you live with the past? How do the victims continue to live with the persecutors? How do myths make life easier? Nossiter's writing style pulls you in with the force of a whirlpool.  By the way, for those wondering about the title, the Algeria Hotel in Vichy housed the offices of the Commissariat Generale aux Questions Juives (but if you ask some of people who worked for the commission, they will tell you to this day that they didn't know what went on there)	2001-08-08
US	49956909	R352LLAPRBN113	0060934913	24249899	Kitchen Confidential: Adventures in the Culinary Underbelly	Books	4	4	5	N	N	read it while eating a seafood salad and a well done steak	An enjoyable read which will make you an informed consumer when dining out.  I worked very briefly as a dishwasher, potwasher (chief potwasher), and waiter (recommend and push the snapper), and even visited the Fulton St Fish Markets, and found this book entertaining.  After reading the chapters about line cooks, weekend brunches, and the use of Thursday fish as Monday specials, I went out to eat on a Monday night, and guess what... all three dinner specials were fish and seafood dishes.  You won't be grossed out after skimming this book, but you will definitely become an enlightened restaurant diner.	2001-08-07
US	49956909	R3IHO5CQTM28KT	1886913498	329623437	An Algerian Childhood: A Collection of Autobiographical Narratives	Books	5	0	0	N	N	An interesting recollectn of childhoods in poly... Algeria	This is a unique collection of 16 autobiographical recollections by male, female, settler, indigenous, Arab, Kabyle, French, and Jewish writers who grew up in Algeria.  Anne Donadey, in the book's foreword, explains how the history of Algeria influenced its writers.  Sewn through some of the stories are hints at children's reactions to social distinctions, colonialism, restrictions, and war.  Algeria, North Africa's largest country, has been the home to blacks, whites, Arabs, Jews, Romans, Berbers/Kabyles, Europeans, Corsicans, Christians, and Moslems.  Jews moved to Algeria in the Sixth Century, the Arabs arrived in the Seventh, naming it the Maghreb for the Western setting sun of the expanding empire.  More Jews and Moslems arrived during the Iberian Inquisition, the Turks arrived, and the French took over in 1830 after fighting Abdelkader for three years.  Algeria's war for independence from France lasted eight years, from 1954-1962, and it and the murders that occurred before and after independence play a role in the stories.  The book opens with Malek Alloula's &quot;My Exotic Childhood&quot; in which the Parisian poet recalls the Tekouk, that springtime season of anticipation, smelling of pine resin and paella, a time of languid craziness that preceded Easter and Summer vacation from school. Jamel Eddine Bencheikh, a Sorbonne poet from a Tlemcen family, contributes &quot;Tlemsen Up High.&quot;  In it he recalls the springtime celebrations of al-Ourit, where girls would sing tahwif, Jewish women would pass by singing Passover songs and exchange greetings and sweets, young men sought to play pranks, and his grandmother would recount her dreams.  He recalls his Summer visits, the colors and smells, and the places he can recall only in dreams.  Among my other favorites in the collection of 16 are the following:  Mohammed Dib, who was born in Algeria over 80 years ago, recalls David with the Tunisian pastry stand, and the kids' fears of French people, and the fist of the French teacher.  \\"By Independence Clear\\" by Mohamed Kacimi el Hassani of Zaouia d'El Hamel in Southern Algeria's plateau. In his story he recalls second grade and the Algeria's independence, when all the women baked cakes and sewed flags, his classmates wondered whether they would have to study French, and the author met Colonel Chaabani of the FLN (who would later be assasinated).  In Albert Bensoussan's &quot;The Lost Child&quot;, he recalls his mother's shopping trips to the market and his family's Rosh Hashana traditions in Algiers, where the ADA (tradition) was to eat fish, sweets, and go to the crowded casbah to purchase and eat jujube fruits that tasted of dates.  It is there that the author, who knows little Arabic, loses sight of his mother at the age of six, and is saved by an Arab man (Sidi Lardjouz) and his 8 year old daughter.  They become playmates for the next 3 years until...  In &quot;Bare Feet&quot;, Helene Cixous, a native of Oran, now a director at Paris VIII, she recalls Oran, its sailors and natives, how her doctor father became a pedicure under Vichy.  The oppression makes her happy, since she no longer feels an ambiguity as to her social class.  Annie Cohen, a native of Sidi-Bel-Abbes, in \\"Viridiana My Love\\", recalls housekeepers, their children, and the children of the employers.  Roger Dadoun in \\"The Hammam\\" provides a story from his Shem chronicles, recalling the hammam (bath), the foods, the Sabbath shopping trips, the stores, the fritters, recipes, the backgammon at Caf&eacute; Benayoum, and the conversations in tetouanais/staonne.  Jean Daniel, born in Blidan eighty years ago, was editor in chief of L'Express.  He recalls the banality of a fun childhood, his god-like teachers, the Spanish war, and his Jewish father, a grain merchant, who could speak Berber and worshipped knowledge.  In all, a quick unique reading experience.of the French teacher.  \\"By Independence Clear\\" by Mohamed Kacimi el Hassani of Zaouia d'El Hamel in Southern Algeria's plateau. In his story he recalls second grade and the Algeria's independence, when all the women baked cakes and sewed flags, his classmates wondered whether they would have to study French, and the author met Colonel Chaabani of the FLN (who would later be assasinated).  In Albert Bensoussan's &quot;The Lost Child&quot;, he recalls his mother's shopping trips to the market and his family's Rosh Hashana traditions in Algiers, where the ADA (tradition) was to eat fish, sweets, and go to the crowded casbah to purchase and eat jujube fruits that tasted of dates.  It is there that the author, who knows little Arabic, loses sight of his mother at the age of six, and is saved by an Arab man (Sidi Lardjouz) and his 8 year old daughter.  They become playmates for the next 3 years until...  In &quot;Bare Feet&quot;, Helene Cixous, a native of Oran, now a director at Paris VIII, she recalls Oran, its sailors and natives, how her doctor father became a pedicure under Vichy.  The oppression makes her happy, since she no longer feels an ambiguity as to her social class.  Annie Cohen, a native of Sidi-Bel-Abbes, in \\"Viridiana My Love\\", recalls housekeepers, their children, and the children of the employers.  Roger Dadoun in \\"The Hammam\\" provides a story from his Shem chronicles, recalling the hammam (bath), the foods, the Sabbath shopping trips, the stores, the fritters, recipes, the backgammon at Caf Benayoum, and the conversations in tetouanais/staonne.  Jean Daniel, born in Blidan eighty years ago, was editor in chief of L'Express.  He recalls the banality of a fun childhood, his god-like teachers, the Spanish war, and his Jewish father, a grain merchant, who could speak Berber and worshipped knowledge.  In all, a quick unique reading experience.	2001-07-26
US	49956909	R3QNYXFEO30AWW	0691086672	96072010	Neighbors: The Destruction of the Jewish Community in Jedwabne, Poland	Books	5	80	134	N	N	A small book, but with a great impact in Poland	Some readers of Polish heritage find it hard to accept and are surprised, that Poles, and not Nazis, killed Jews in a village.  Sadly, they have a knee jerk reaction, they deny it and insult this book's author.  Many Americans were surprised to read about the white pogroms against blacks in Tulsa Oklahoma and Rosewood Florida decades ago.  But at least they never called these events lies.<br />This book presents a generalized discussion on how Poles, with Nazi prodding, burned 1,600 Jews alive in a barn in the northern Polish town of Jedwabne (85 mile NE of Warsaw) in July 1941.  Deniers will say it wasn't 1,600, but suffice it to say, at least 200 bodies were recently dug up in part of the barn in June 2001.  Seven Jews survived, hidden by a Polish woman.  The book tells us how the mayor exceeded the Nazi command of July 10, 1941 to kill the Jews, but spare some tradesmen.  The villagers killed nearly everyone, and not just those that may have supported the Soviets, if any (see Gross's \\"Revolution from Abroad\\" for a study of pre War Soviet atrocities in Poland).  It followed massacres of Jews in two neighboring villages (probably under the leadership of SS-Obersturmfuhrer Hermann Schaper).  Polish documents listed some 92 Jedwabne villagers by name who participated in the murders.  Some villagers played music while the Jews screamed and burned.  The massacre was planned by the town's city council and mayor.  It was so grotesque that the town butcher declined to participate.  Some Poles brought wagons to carry away Jewish booty.  The book contains about 30 pages of photos and 47 pages of footnotes.<br />The book has sparked a national debate in Poland.  The massacre was never fully investigated, although perfunctory trials were held after WWII.  The book tells how a monument was erected that blamed the Nazis and Gestapo for the murders, even though in 1949, 22 Poles were arrested for the murders.  Another trial was held in 1953.  Older Poles continue to think it was the work of \\"bandits.\\"  Poland's Prime Minister Jerzy Buzek and President Aleksander Kwasniewski have read the book and asked the nation to ask for forgiveness (although Deputy Antoni Macierewicz is now suing the President for defamation to take back the lie that Poles killed Jews).  Because of this book&#8217;s publication, in May 2001, the head of the Catholic Church in Poland, Jozef Cardinal Glemp, acknowledged Polish involvement in the crime, but of course, Cardinal Glemp also said that the Jews should apologize for bring Communism to Poland (what?).  Cardinal Glemp will pray at All Saints Church on Grzybowski Sqaure in Warsaw, across from Warsaw&#8217;s synagogue, but maybe he will have All Saints get rid of some of the books they sell in their store, books like &#8220;Spot the Jew&#8221; and &#8220;Jews and Freemasons Working Together.&#8221;  By the way, in June 2001, due to this book, the barn was exhumed and in it was found the charred remains of a statue (as the book mentions, a statue of Lenin was burned with the Jews), as well as many many house keys and the effects of men, women and children.as the work of \\"bandits.\\"  Poland's Prime Minister Jerzy Buzek and President Aleksander Kwasniewski have read the book and asked the nation to ask for forgiveness (although Deputy Antoni Macierewicz is now suing the President for defamation to take back the lie that Poles killed Jews).  Because of this book&#8217;s publication, in May 2001, the head of the Catholic Church in Poland, Jozef Cardinal Glemp, acknowledged Polish involvement in the crime, but of course, Cardinal Glemp also said that the Jews should apologize for bring Communism to Poland (what?).  Cardinal Glemp will pray at All Saints Church on Grzybowski Sqaure in Warsaw, across from Warsaw&#8217;s synagogue, but maybe he will have All Saints get rid of some of the books they sell in their store, books like &#8220;Spot the Jew&#8221; and &#8220;Jews and Freemasons Working Together.&#8221;   By the way, in June 2001, due to this book, the barn was exhumed and in it was found the charred remains of a statue (as the book mentions, a statue of Lenin was burned with the Jews), as well as many many house keys and the effects of men, women and children.	2001-06-09
US	49956909	R9Z8L8P1S2TXF	038550084X	597623183	Fraud	Books	5	16	20	N	N	You're maudlin and full of self-pity. You're magnificent.	The preface quote says it all: &quot;You're maudlin and full of self-pity. You're magnificent.&quot;  This is a collection of about 15 short essays and stories by David Rakoff, known for his essays and interviews in The New York Times Sunday Magazine and from his appearances on WBZ-Public Radio's This American Life with Ira Glass.  A New York City-based young, gay, Jewish man who is actually Canadian (yes, he is a fraud like Peter Jennings and Monty Hall), with a degree in Japanese studies, his stories  place him in a range of activities.  Each story is tender, fresh and funny.  My favorites included stories on the time he attended a survival school in which he learns to skin animals and never again to drive down the highway and look at roadkill the same way; an essay on the day he climbed Mount Monadnock in New Hampshire on a cold stormy Christmas in a possible test of ennobling manhood; his recounting of a Toronto adolescence where he and other children of professionals sang the Internationale, commited themselves to Zionist Socialism, and did an instructional stint in a kibbutz chicken coop; and the time he played a form of Jewy McHebrew on a soap opera, and imagined himself in a recurring role.  Some of the other stories include the time he sat in Manhattan clothing store's Christmas window as a Christmas Sigmund Freud (he tells people why their wishful desires are unhealthy for them, or wished for in error); a story in which he attends a weekend Buddhist retreat, in which the Aikido-fighting, aubergine and saffron wearing, actor, Steven Seagal is the guest teacher of Tibetan Buddhism; and a story that should be read by every college English major, namely an essay of despair that recounts the time he worked as a low-payed entry level editorial assistant (secretary) at a NYC publisher.	2001-05-28
US	49956909	R39I4YDJ1JZXQ2	1576737330	89800612	The Prayer of Jabez:  Breaking Through to the Blessed Life	Books	3	41	57	N	N	a disquieting bestselling riff on a biblical sentence	With over 4 million copies of this book sold, I decided to purchase one.  A slim book by a minister and author, a leader of Promise Keepers. In it, Wilkinson takes a four line prayer from the Book of Chronicles I, Chapter 4, and discusses why people should pray for wealth and all that is coming to them, professing that it is no sin to ask for more.<br />It was slightly interesting to see how his interpretation of the four lines differed from those of classical Jewish commentators - commentators who wrote that the man was nicknamed Yavetz (Yud, Ayin, Bet, Tzaddik) by his mother, a Reversal or play on the word Atzev (Ayin, Tzaddik, Bet), meaning sadness or loss. Maybe he was born after the death of his father or someone else? Maybe it was an allusion to Benjamin, a name based on Ben-Oni, or son of my painful birth. Chronicles with a sly smile had Yavetz, nicknamed sadness, pray for a life that would not be sad.  The text of Chronicles was important to those returning from the Babylonian exile, people who wanted to redeem, resettle and reclaim Israel.<br />Wilkinson's take on the prayers is as follows:  Bruce Wilkinson, reprints the four line prayer of Jabez (1 Chronicles 4:9-10) in the first chapter.  Wilkinson recites it daily, and implores Christians to use it to change their lives.  In the successive chapters, Wilkinson comments on each line of the prayer.  Chapter 2 is a discourse on the first line.  Quoting Matthew and James, Wilkinson writes that it is permissible to ask for blessings without feeling greedy and self centered (ask for the presents that are in the warehouse waiting for you).  In Chapter 3, Wilkinson looks at the line of &quot;enlarging my territory...&quot;  Wilkinson interprets it to mean that it is acceptable for Christian men to pray for more business or larger portfolios; Christian women may ask for greater influence for their households.  Giving examples from his own life as a evangelist, Wilkinson writes about how the prayer allowed him to reach out to a conflicted man while on a cruise and save a woman from her fear of the Antichrist and its deceptions while on a train trip.  In Chapter 4, Wilkinson directs his attention to the feeling of abandonment and fear that those Christians who do the work of God will feel.  They shouldn't fear dependence.  He then gives examples from his own life, such as the time he lead dozens of teens to preach on Long Island beaches to save the unchurched.  In Chapter 5, Wilkinson discusses how to immunize oneself from evil through the prayer.  He narrates the time he flew on a plane after preaching and counseling for a full week, and discovered that seated to his right and to his left were men reading pornographic magazines.  He prayed and suddenly both men closed their magazines.  In Chapter 6, Wilkinson recounts how his daily recital of the prayer aids his ministry and being a Christian messenger.  Once he was in a taxi, on the way to an airport, when an accident delayed traffic.  He prayed that the flight would be DELAYED so he would not miss it (hmmm... one would think that he would have prayed for the health of anyone injured in the accident.)  Well, the flight WAS delayed, the passengers were milling about waiting, and he got to counsel a woman and convince her not to divorce her cheating husband.  Finally, Wilkinson closes the slim book by recommending that the reader pray the prayer, keep a journal of their daily prayers, and record the expanded number of people they influence each day.to reach out to a conflicted man while on a cruise and save a woman from her fear of the Antichrist and its deceptions while on a train trip.  In Chapter 4, Wilkinson directs his attention to the feeling of abandonment and fear that those Christians who do the work of God will feel.  They shouldn't fear dependence.  He then gives examples from his own life, such as the time he lead dozens of teens to preach on Long Island beaches to save the unchurched.  In Chapter 5, Wilkinson discusses how to immunize oneself from evil through the prayer.  He narrates the time he flew on a plane after preaching and counseling for a full week, and discovered that seated to his right and to his left were men reading pornographic magazines.  He prayed and suddenly both men closed their magazines.  In Chapter 6, Wilkinson recounts how his daily recital of the prayer aids his ministry and being a Christian messenger.  Once he was in a taxi, on the way to an airport, when an accident delayed traffic.  He prayed that the flight would be DELAYED so he would not miss it (hmmm... one would think that he would have prayed for the health of anyone injured in the accident.)  Well, the flight WAS delayed, the passengers were milling about waiting, and he got to counsel a woman and convince her not to divorce her cheating husband.  Finally, Wilkinson closes the slim book by recommending that the reader pray the prayer, keep a journal of their daily prayers, and record the expanded number of people they influence each day.	2001-05-23
US	49956909	RELEL0WOP74NX	0824604067	139134665	Best Baby Names for Jewish Children	Books	4	28	30	N	N	A good shem is better than good shemen	As it is said, `a good name is better than fragrant oil (tov shem mi shemen tov).\\"  A straightforward good guide, and listings of male and female names, selected from Kolatch's other works which date back to 1948.  Also includes about 200 unisex names, such as Ari, Avi, Dodi, Ariel, Doron, Lior, Sharon, Tzipor and Zohar.  For each listing, Kolatch provides a meaning and a Hebrew equivalent.  For example, Larry is Latin and directs the reader to see \\"Laurence.\\"  Laurence's listing states that is is latin meaning `laurel crown.'  The Hebrew equivalent is listed as Kalil.  Mario's listing is akin to Marcus, meaning warlike as in \\"Mars.\\".  The Hebrew equivalent is listed as Mordechai.  ZIPORA will direct the reader to TZIPORA, which, when found, states that it is from the Hebrew, meaning \\"bird.\\"  It's Hebrew equivalent is naturally, \\"Tzipora.\\"  Listings for Tzipori (my bird) and Tziporit and Tzipi occur close to Tzipora.  George is listed as Greek, meaning farmer; its Hebrew equivalent is listed as Choresh.  But there is no listing for Choresh.  The book is fine for 98% of readers, but if you are wondering whether you should name your child Gilad with an Aleph or an Ayin, then you need to consult a book with Hebrew characters or a local Hebraist.  I would like the book better if it included Hebrew spellings, and if it listed some famous personages for each name listing.  For example, the listing for Boaz should mention where he occurs in the stort of Ruth; or Jose should mention the Aramaic speaking rabbis by that name	2001-05-19
US	49956909	R2EVVUMFQWH9SH	1880000016	3682692	Baseball Saved Us	Books	4	17	20	N	N	Learning to face adversity even after a war's end	Ken's father spent WWII in the Minidoka Japanese-American Internment Camp in Idaho.  Ken, the author was raised in Seattle.  Shorty is stuck in the barracks without friends, surrounded by noise and boredom.  No one has anything to do.  His dad sees verves fraying and has an idea,  Build a baseball diamond and organize games.  The men make the diamond, the women improvise the uniforms.  Games are scheduled under the gaze of the guard towers.  Shorty scores a big hit under nervous angry pressure.  After the war, he continues to be taunted, but learns self respect under the pressure of adversity.  The benefit from this book, is that there is no whitewash.  It is honest, and yes, he was called Shorty, cuz life is like that.	2001-05-18
US	49956909	RO8C595WK1CJA	1879965038	431324905	Almond Cookies & Dragon Well Tea	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Introduces readers to other multicultural families	Erica Howard and Nancy Hong are best friends at school. They play and eat together.  Nancy invites Erica over to her home for a playdate.  Nancy Hing lives in a old townhouse over a laundry/dry cleaning shop (the author's grandparents had a laundry in the DC area many decades ago).  Erica is introduced to Nancy's mother, grandmother (PoPo) and grandfather (Gung Gung).  &quot;Ni hao?&quot;, grandfather greets them.  PoPo serves them almond cookies and sweet dragon well tea.  Nancy shows Erica the family altar and then plays a tune on her Gu Zheng (Chinese zither).  Then Gung Gung takes them to the park where they can play under his dozing gaze.  The playdate ends with a walk home, but there is a reminder of the afternoon in a brown paper bag.	2001-05-18
US	49956909	R272WXGIEMHQTY	0395570352	208445376	Grandfather's Journey (CALDECOTT MEDAL BOOK)	Books	5	14	15	N	N	LIke looking through a family album	Each large page contains a faded color painting of a photo (maybe 7x8 inches) with text beneath, both by Allen Say.  Allen tells the story of his grandfather, first shown in traditional Japanese attire, and next traveling by steamship to California in Western garb and bowler hat.  On the next pages, we see him travel through America by riverboat, train and foot, meeting various people (red, brown, white and yellow), seeing deserts and oceans of golden amber grain, visiting rural towns and industrial cities filled with factories.  Returning to Japan, he marries, and settles in San Francisco to raise a family.  year later, they return to Japan, and he helps to raise his grandchild prior to WWII.  Allen, the author, grows up and follows in his grandfather's footsteps, coming to America to explore.  When in California, he and his grandfather long for Japan; in Japan they long for California.	2001-05-18
US	49956909	R15O4IJ75FDC72	0374155755	457053862	Fixer Chao	Books	5	19	25	N	N	Feng Shui... you want fries with that...	There were books that defined aspects of America in the 1980's: Liar's Poker, Less Than Zero, and Bonfire of the Vanities.  This book by Han Ong will be a defining classic for Manhattan in 1999, on the cusp of the Millenium and Y2K.<br />This is the first novel by one of the youngest MacArthur Genius grant recipients, the playwright, Han Ong.  In this story, we meet our narrator, William Narcisco Paulinha, a Philippine-American.  William has always felt himself to be a loser; he is no piranha in Manhattan's waters.  Even though he types perfectly at a speed of 120 wpm, he charges 75% of the market rate, instead of a premium.  He types manuscripts for New York's lesser, aspiring writers, or those with poor grammar and run-on sentences, like the Holocaust survivor for whom he takes dictation.  But taking dictation and typing are better tasks than his former job, that of a Port Authority Bus Terminal Men's Room hustler and sex worker (No, the book's author never turned tricks at Port Authority).  William is a good person.  He doesn't correct his elderly clients' grammar and he cares for an elderly Filipino neighbor who suffers from an injured hip.<br />One evening after work, William meets Shem C., a peculiar Jew in a squalid, Times Square bar, the Savoy (used to be at 41st and 9th).  Shem asks Paulinha to buy him a shot, calls him a Chink, and reports that he never heard of the Philippines.  (can he be trusted?)  Shem is recovering from being thrown out of his home by his nagging wife.  She is the daughter of a famous Jewish novelist. Shem is a social climbing, unsuccessful author of book reviews and celebrity profiles.  Having been been spurned by Manhattan's elite, he wants to exact sweet revenge.  Shem has a proposal for William, who he sees as a down and out Asian.  Shem wants to front him as a Chinese Feng Shui expert, a fixer, from Hong Kong, Fixer William Chao, living secretly in America under an assumed name.  Shem wants The Fixer Chao to always make one feng shui error, in order to injure the despised elitists.  Together they will bilk Manhattan's elite, separating them from their extra money, fixing their unhappy but wealth-filled lives.  Shem is a Shem-Sham Man. When William joins him, the reader is left with an enjoyable story and biting commentary on Manhattan life, celebrities, and the lemming-like behavior of those New Yorkers with artistic sensibilities.  This is a must read, as each page contains an insightful nugget.  Also, a feng shui expert may tell you that reading this book will lead to peace which will lead to clarity and help you get what you deserve and desire.eng shui error, in order to injure the despised elitists.  Together they will bilk Manhattan's elite, separating them from their extra money, fixing their unhappy but wealth-filled lives.  Shem is a Shem-Sham Man. When William joins him, the reader is left with an enjoyable story and biting commentary on Manhattan life, celebrities, and the lemming-like behavior of those New Yorkers with artistic sensibilities.   This is a must read, as each page contains an insightful nugget.  Also, a feng shui expert may tell you that reading this book will lead to peace which will lead to clarity and help you get what you deserve and desire.	2001-05-18
US	49956909	R97GCDVOH7OXD	1580230903	53065281	Celebrating Your New Jewish Daughter: Creating Jewish Ways to Welcome Baby Girls into the Covenant	Books	5	9	9	N	N	an organic classic in the making, a must for your shelf	The introduction opens with, \\"Mazal Tov, You've Had a Baby Girl!\\"  Everybody is familiar with a bris, or brit milah circumcision ceremony -- and in current practice, a festive celebration, for healthy baby boys on their eighth day after birth.  But what do you do when you have a daughter?  What are they, chopped liver?  Since the early 1970's, some Jewish parents have been celebrating their daughters in original ways (Ezrat Nashim published the first ceremonies in 1977, and the havurah and renewal movements wrote about theirs starting around 1973).  Debra Nussbaum Cohen, a resident of Park Slope Brooklyn, and mother who has known the joy of birth and the pain of loss, has created this essential guide to new and traditional ceremonies with which to welcome your new daughter to the world, the covenant, and the Jewish people.  It will be a welcome addition to your Jewish bookshelf and your life. Consider this: what you create today will be a \\"tradition\\" for your descendants! Cohen started collecting organic Simchat Bat ceremonies when she was pregnant with her first child. For your Simchat Bat ceremony and celebration, she includes readings, poems, specialized readings for adoptions, blessings, prayers (in Hebrew, English transliterations and translations), history, songs, and rituals.  It is an inclusive book that has sample ceremonies also crafted for adherents to traditional Orthodoxy, traditional Sephardic rite, contemporary rites, contemporary Orthodox, humanism, and modren mikveh rites.  Part One consists of about two dozen pages that introduce you to welcoming ceremonies and Jewish tradition, including the idea of covenant, brit milah, the custom of gomel, and that of a new father being called to the Torah to recite blessings, announce the birth, and pray for his wife's recovery. Part Two consists of about four dozen pages on seriously practical considerations for your ceremony.  It includes chapters on how to involve your non-Jewish loved ones or spouse, if necessary (through acknowledgement and readings); what to do in cases of adoption and cross-cultural adoption (remember, Moses was an adopted child, and Mordechai was probably an adoptive parent); and gay and lesbian parenthood.  Part Three focuses on planning the event, creating programs, sanctifying the space, and deciding when to have the Simchat Bat (eighth day, 30th day, etc.).  Part Four contains over 150 pages of sample ceremonies, and hundreds of readings and elements from which you can pick and choose.  It includes selections for welcoming, naming, prayers of thanksgiving, parental blessings, acrostics, psalms, readings for relatives and friends, blessings for wine and bread, and rituals for brit nerot (light), brit mikvah (immersion), brit rechitzah (footwashing/handwashing), brit tallit (enfolding her into the covenant), brit kehillah (community), brit melach, and brit havdalah (transitions).  The book succeeds so well, one wishes all the babies were girls (or maybe some things can be borrowed for future boys).essary (through acknowledgement and readings); what to do in cases of adoption and cross-cultural adoption (remember, Moses was an adopted child, and Mordechai was probably an adoptive parent); and gay and lesbian parenthood.  Part Three focuses on planning the event, creating programs, sanctifying the space, and deciding when to have the Simchat Bat (eighth day, 30th day, etc.).  Part Four contains over 150 pages of sample ceremonies, and hundreds of readings and elements from which you can pick and choose.  It includes selections for welcoming, naming, prayers of thanksgiving, parental blessings, acrostics, psalms, readings for relatives and friends, blessings for wine and bread, and rituals for brit nerot (light), brit mikvah (immersion), brit rechitzah (footwashing/handwashing), brit tallit (enfolding her into the covenant), brit kehillah (community), brit melach, and brit havdalah (transitions).  The book succeeds so well, one wishes all the babies were girls (or maybe some things can be borrowed for future boys).	2001-04-27
US	49956909	R2GAEI5H7YPQMV	0688155901	433842460	The New York Times Passover Cookbook : More Than 200 Holiday Recipes from Top Chefs and Writers	Books	5	17	19	N	N	reply to the south american review below	I wrote a 5 star review (listed below) in February 1999.  I enjoy this cookbook and have given it on sveral occassions as a gifts to friends.  I find it useful and interesting, both practical and bon chic.  I am writing, though, to respond to a two-star review, below, from a south american reviewer that states that &quot;Orthodox jews don't use matzoh meal, or any vegetables that cannot be peeled&quot; and that for him or her &quot;this cookbook is useless.&quot;  That is fine for that writer, but may I respond that the author of this cookbook, in the introduction to the book, states clearly, how the recipes were vetted with many respected rabbis and institutions.  Yes, there are small sects of Jewish 'Orthodoxy' that choose not cook with matzah or matzah meal as an ingredient.  If you are a member of one of those groups, then you might not find all the recipes in the book helpful.  But 'in the main', the majority of Jews in the Western and Northern Hemispheres cook with matzah, matzah meal, and fruits and vegetables.  The Orthodox Union (OU) has its hecksher on many matzoh meal products.  Thus, I continue to recommend this book.	2001-04-26
US	49956909	R33FPHR14PQIZC	0805058222	499131368	At the Beach	Books	4	6	6	N	N	a fun book for kids	Lee, a native of Cambodia, creates a children's book that explains some Chinese language characters, characters that look like what they mean.  Xiao Ming and his mother go to the beach, where Xiao Ming likes to draw Chinese characters in the sand with a stick.  Xiao Ming and the reader learn 10 characters.  One character is introduced per double page.  They are drawn and explained, and for each character, the illustration matches the character.  \\"Person\\", for example (ren/wren), looks like a person walking down a beach, right foot leading one's left.  \\"Big\\", (da/dah), looks like person but with an additional horizontal line, or a person  on his back with outstretched arms and legs (and thus the illustration of a person lying in the sand).  The word for \\"sky\\" follows later.  It adds another horizontal line to person and big, as if something is sheltering the person.  Seven other words are learned ending with \\"Good\\" (hao/how), which looks remarkably like a mother holding her child at the beach.  Mandarin pronunciations are used.	2001-04-21
US	49956909	R33WGIM8MLQDWD	0590461672	597878166	The Little Lama of Tibet	Books	4	3	3	N	N	a cute insight into the life of a 6 yr old Tibetan monk	A picture book with beautiful photos of the young monk and a few sentences on his life.  The author is a former journalist for NY Newsday and The New York Times.  The book's inside front and back covers are filled with the Tibetan alphabet and its sounds.  Six year old Ling Rinpoche of Dharamsala India is shown at play, studying, eating, and greeting.  In one picture, a young reader can read about how he wakes before dawn, in another, read about how he dresses in maroon and gold robes of cotton or wool.  We learn what he eats for breakfast, what he studies, what toys he plays with.  He meets well wishers, and we see him traveling to Bodh Gaya.  The book closes with a map drawing of India, Tibet, and their neighbors.	2001-04-21
US	49956909	R21LME26JWRB70	1565840232	595468464	Asian Americans: Oral Histories of First to Fourth Generation Americans from China, the Philippines, Japan, India, the Pacific Islands, Vietnam and	Books	5	8	9	N	N	As if Studs Terkel met Asian America	Studs Terkel meets Asian America.  The author, affiliated with Queens College at the time the book was compiled, records oral histories from first through fourth generation Asian Americans from China, Cambodia, the Philippines, Vietnam, Japan, and Pacific Islands. (Chinese immigrants began to officially arrive in 1848; they were not allowed to apply for citizenship until 1943.  Japanese and Koreans were not allowed citizenship until 1952; Filipinos and Asian Indians beat them by six years) These histories are grouped into three major section: Living In America; Americanization; and Refections on Interracial Marriage.  In \\"Living In America\\", selections include Will Hao on being a true Hawaiian, and Andrea Kim on being born and raised in Hawaii, but not being Hawaiian.  Sam Sue, a Chinese American lawyer, talks about growing up bitterly in Clarksdale Mississippi during a time of segregation.  The Americanization section includes stories of escape and exodus, the bumpy road of acculturation, 3 stories just on run-ins with traffic cops (driving while Asian), and over 9 stories on Americanization, racism, tension, being Asian versus being American, and even on being a minority within a minority.  Cao O discusses life as an ethnic Chinese in Vietnam and being Chinese-Vietnamese in America and dealing with social service agencies in Chinatown that is staffed by Hong-Kong born Chinese.  In \\"No Tea, Thank You\\", Setsuko K. discusses the subtleties between the generations, such as politeness and their hidden meanings (when \\"no\\" means \\"yes\\", and \\"yes\\" means \\"no\\").  In a sub-section of nine stories about family, Cao O discusses the idea of `obligation', while Hideo K talks about the \\"Company as Friend\\".  Tony Ham discusses Mah-Jonng as a family social focus.  In a sub-section on religion, there is an interesting piece on Koreans and church membership.  In one of eight stories on \\"Interracial Marriage\\", Jody Sandler writes talks about \\"So He's Not a Jewish Doctor\\", in which a 23 year old Woodmere Long Island Five Town girl marries an Asian America and faces pressures from family and friends, and contrasts Tony's values with those she grew up with in Five Towns.year old Woodmere Long Island Five Town girl marries an Asian America and faces pressures from family and friends, and contrasts Tony's values with those she grew up with in Five Towns.	2001-04-21
US	49956909	R1LTJ7ZVPE9DVH	069811390X	5442013	The Bracelet	Books	5	24	24	N	N	an importance lesson in memory	In the first illustration we see two typically Californian homes with cars in their driveways.  One has a \\"For Sale\\" sign on its front steps.  Emi, a second grader, sits and waits.  Her father has been sent to a prison camp in Montana, and soon the FBI will take her, her sister, and her mother to a detention center and then to a detention camp in Utah.  Emi and her family are Japanese Americans in California.  It is 1942, and the United States is at war with Japan.  Emi and 120,000 other Japanese Americans (80,000 of them citizens) were sent to detention centers due to their ethnic heritage by the U.S. government; their rights were abrogated.  There is a knock at the door.  Is it the FBI?  No, it's her friend and neighbor Laurie.  She gives Emi a gift, a bracelet, with which to remember her by.  They hug.  Emi and her family, allowed just a couple of suitcases, are sent with other from San Francisco to a racetrack which has been converted to a detention center.  They see guards with guns and bayonets, and as they pass a boarded up grocery store, we see a sign in the drawing, saying that the store owners are \\"loyal Americans.\\"  When Emi loses the bracelet after arriving at the detention center, she learns that a person can remember people and families in the absence of physical items and personal effects.  An afterword explains the historical events and the redress made by the US Federal government under Presidents Ford and Carter.  Yoshiko is also the author of The Invisible Thread, her account of a childhood in detention.	2001-04-21
US	49956909	ROFH2O85XE5FK	096384721X	637081439	When You Were Born in China: A Memory Book for Children Adopted from China	Books	4	38	39	N	N	great for kids under 6	Each page is filled with pictures of China and a couple of easy sentences about Chinese history, beauty, culture, and how kids enjoy Coke and dumplings when they can splurge.  Includes sentences that tell about the adoption process, and reinforce the point that the child is loved.  Discusses how laws by China's leaders allow only one child per family, and how Chinese parents LOVE children, but ancient ideas about male babies are hard to overcome in some families, and girls get placed for adoption to other loving couples.  Encouraging.  Primary idea is that your (the child's) story began in China.	2001-04-21
US	49956909	R1PE2U0EMYZU5F	0375400095	556967295	Ultimate Journey: Retracing the Path of an Ancient Buddhist Monk Who Crossed Asia in Search of Enlightenment	Books	5	10	12	N	N	Not a travelogue, but an enjoyable pen-Ultimate journey	As Bernstein quotes in the book, \\"No ship ever takes you away from yourself.\\"  And just as Conrad's journeys in the Congo were deeper than just a boat ride, Bernstein's travels through China, Tajikistan, Pakistan, Kazakhstan and India are not only a travelogue, but a personal journey at age 50.  Most American school children are familiar with Marco Polo, who traveled from Europe to Asia.  Some Jewish children are familiar with Benjamin of Tudela, a Jewish explorer.  But nearly none are familiar with Hsuan Tsang, a Monk who lived in 603-664, who was the greatest land traveler in history.  Nearly all Asian children know of his esteemed adventures. Hsuan Tsang wrote \\"The Great Tang Chronicles of The Western World\\", based on his over fifteen years and 10,000 miles of journeys, journeys made by foot, horse, camel, and elephant.  While Marco Polo sought riches, Monk Hsuan Tsang sought the source of reality and Buddhist Wisdom (although his emperor sought details to help craft military and political policies).  Fast forward over 1,300 years.  The author, raised on a chicken farm, is a book critic for The New York Times.  He is a former Harvard Chinese History student, was a Peace Corps volunteer (in China), and was Time Magazine's Beijing bureau chief.  When he turned fifty years of age, Bernstein, unmarried (half a man as the Talmud wrote) and antsy, moody and difficult to please, decided to fulfill some promises that he made to himself.  These included sailing to Tahiti, reading Proust, writing a novel, making furniture, and, oh, yes, following the 5,000 mile route of Hsuan Tsang from China to Southern India.  And so, Bernstein gets some time off from The Times, packs a bag, flies to Hong Kong and Xian China, and embarks on Hsuan Tsang's trek (although his Chinese American girlfriend does join this commitment-phobe for part of the trip).  A great read for 2001.<br />[Jewish readers will especially want to read Chapter 16, in which Bernstein, arriving in West Bengal on a Friday afternoon, seeks out the Calcutta synagogue he had noted on an earlier visit in 1970.  Seeking to satiate a desire for tribal attachment, he finds the Sephardic services at the Canning Street shul (no longer on Synagogue Street), and is the tenth man for the Shabbat minyan]a Friday afternoon, seeks out the Calcutta synagogue he had noted on an earlier visit in 1970.  Seeking to satiate a desire for tribal attachment, he finds the Sephardic services at the Canning Street shul (no longer on Synagogue Street), and is the tenth man for the Shabbat minyan]	2001-04-21
US	49956909	R1AWSW06N2ACNT	0930494660	926586042	Family Haggadah (English and Hebrew Edition)	Books	5	33	34	N	N	Includes good readings for children	A RIGHT TO LEFT version Haggadah.  In green, red and black text.  Includes mostly English readings and translations with some Hebrew for the most well known paragraphs (Avadim Hayeenu, blessings), and English transliterations for blessings.  The English in non-sexist (gender neutral) and within the grasp of school age children.  Certain passages are tagged with icons to note &quot;songs&quot;, &quot;plan ahead activities&quot;, and &quot;for young children.&quot;  It opens with a Seder checklist to make sure you have all the items for a good seder.  The seder text follows.  The Four Sons are Four CHILDREN.  Children are prompted to tell the table how they would explain Passover to each of the four children.  Dayenu is abbreviated and in English.  Includes English Grace After Meals, Counting of the Omer, and an abbreviated Hallel.  Includes Adir Hu, Echad Mi Yodea, Chad Gadya, A Fifth Cup for Israel, and Hatikva.  Most of the readings are in English.	2001-04-06
US	49956909	R3TYCW6FQZYDVX	0679451072	466342713	The Foods of Israel Today: More than 300 Recipes--and Memories--Reflecting Israel's Past and Present Through Its Many Cuisines	Books	5	56	58	N	N	Oral gratification	With 300 recipes, two pages of suggested Israeli restaurants, two web sources for ingredients, and nine suggested menus, Nathan shows the diverse cuisines of Israel?s sabras and immigrants.  THIS IS ISRAELI CUISINE that is being eaten in Israel.  Includes turkey schnitzel, quick kibbutz apple cake, eggplant salad, and halvah chocolate cake.  Includes Transylvania Green Bean Soup, a dessert salami (made of cookies) and the Chocolate Cake recipe from the American Colony Hotel in Jerusalem.  It includes over a dozen poultry recipes, including Doro Wat, a spicy chicken of Ethiopian Jews; and Hamim, an overnight chicken dish with cloves, spaghetti, cumin, cinnamon, and cardamom.  Ms Nathan felt compelled to write this 400 page book on the night Itzhak Rabin was assassinated (Nov 4, 1995).  Three decades ago, she lived in Israel for three years and worked in Jerusalem for Mayor Teddy Kollek for over two years (where Nathan co-wrote her first cookbook).  The book is in the style of her earlier American Jewish Cooking book, namely, each recipe is preceded by an oral history, and there are histories, classic photos, and stories between the recipes.  For example, to complement the recipe for Shakshuka, the reader learns about the Doktor Shakshuka Restaurant in old Jaffa and its owners.  For the burekas recipe, we read about eating burekas at Jerusalem?s city hall in the Seventies.  While discussing the Friedman?s farm in Rosh Pina, we get lots of farm recipes.  A recipe for Kaiserschmarrn is coupled with an old picture of Beit Ha?Pancake?s roadside gas station and a story about the search for the dish?s Viennese roots.  In addition to salad, tahina, and hummus recipes, Nathan lists 19 of the best places for hummus from Jerusalem to Akko to Haifa.  Plus 12 happening places for falafel.  There are 23 salads, including Hamutzim (pickled vegetables). Some of my favorite recipes are Mish Mish Apricot Jam (with cinnamon stick); Egyptian Coconut Jam; Triple Citrus Marmalade (coupled with a story on Etrog picking); Israeli Onion Jam (from Neot Kedumim), a guide to how to make your own Za?atar spice; Carmelized green Olives; Shortcut Potato Burekas; Marhooda; Bulgur Patties from the Black Hebrew community in Dimona; and a Revisionist Haroset (from Hemda Friedman). The Palestinian Fruit Soup uses cinnamon stick and was found in a 1930's Cleveland cookbook of all places.  There is a Bukharan style Tomato Gazpacho and Bulgarian Eggplant Soup with Yogurt.  Speaking of Za?atar, Nathan includes the recipe for Abouelafia?s Sunny Side Up Za?atar Pita Pizza (if you haven?t had it in Jaffa, either buy the book or fly ElAl to the bakery immediately).  Speaking of soup, she has the Hummus Soup recipe from Keren Restaurant, as well as Aramaic Chicken Soup; and the Goulash Soup recipe from Fink?s Bar (on King George at Ben Yehudah mall).  The Olive Bread recipe uses black and green olives and oregano.  The Mahlouach recipe is from Nahlaot, and the Chocolate Bread recipe is from Lehem Erez Komarovsky.  The Jerusalem Kugel recipe is heavy on the pepper and the Barsch is Uzbeki style from Holon.  There is Yotvata Potato Mushroom Casserole from Kibbutz Yotvata (and all you thought they made was milk), and the 16 fish dishes include Khremi, a Libyan style fish from Beit Shikma; Ima Sharansky?s gefilte fish; and Chef Steinitz?s Salmon Trout dish (Dan Hotel, Eilat).  What more can one want?  Oral recipes and oral histories results in oral gratificationd with a story on Etrog picking); Israeli Onion Jam (from Neot Kedumim), a guide to how to make your own Za?atar spice; Carmelized green Olives; Shortcut Potato Burekas; Marhooda; Bulgur Patties from the Black Hebrew community in Dimona; and a Revisionist Haroset (from Hemda Friedman). The Palestinian Fruit Soup uses cinnamon stick and was found in a 1930's Cleveland cookbook of all places.  There is a Bukharan style Tomato Gazpacho and Bulgarian Eggplant Soup with Yogurt.  Speaking of Za?atar, Nathan includes the recipe for Abouelafia?s Sunny Side Up Za?atar Pita Pizza (if you haven?t had it in Jaffa, either buy the book or fly ElAl to the bakery immediately).  Speaking of soup, she has the Hummus Soup recipe from Keren Restaurant, as well as Aramaic Chicken Soup; and the Goulash Soup recipe from Fink?s Bar (on King George at Ben Yehudah mall).  The Olive Bread recipe uses black and green olives and oregano.  The Mahlouach recipe is from Nahlaot, and the Chocolate Bread recipe is from Lehem Erez Komarovsky.  The Jerusalem Kugel recipe is heavy on the pepper and the Barsch is Uzbeki style from Holon.  There is Yotvata Potato Mushroom Casserole from Kibbutz Yotvata (and all you thought they made was milk), and the 16 fish dishes include Khremi, a Libyan style fish from Beit Shikma; Ima Sharansky?s gefilte fish; and Chef Steinitz?s Salmon Trout dish (Dan Hotel, Eilat).  What more can one want?  Oral recipes and oral histories results in oral gratification	2001-03-23
US	49956909	R1RYOBOJJCQAY6	9657108314	624976039	The Carlebach Haggadah: Seder Night with Reb Shlomo	Books	5	12	12	N	N	a joyful Haggadah for the Reb's sweet holy beautiful friends	The Carlebach Haggadah is a Haggadah for the neshama.  It is a traditional haggadah for his \\"sweet, heilige, holy, beautiful friends,\\" in RIGHT to LEFT format, with Hebrew texts on the right pages and facing English translations on the left pages.  There are no transliterations.  Running along the bottom of each page is the reason to buy this book.  They are the teachings and stories of the late singer, teacher, and composer Reb Shlomo Carlebach.  The editors of this Haggadah have compiled some of the Rabbi's teachings from his concerts, shiurim, kumsitz sessions, and holiday celebrations.  What I liked best about this Haggadah was its feeling of joy (you get that feeling from the start just from the Hebrew font that editors use for the text), and from the stories which essentially reinforce the idea of freedom, striving, and the joy of freedom from various slaveries.  The Carlebach Haggadah opens with a search for the Chametz.  Prior to beginning the seder text, there are illustrations of three seder plate arrangements (according to the Vilna Gaon, the Ari, and the Rama).  His stories relate to the Haggadah text in most cases.  For the Maggid (This is the bread of affliction), the associated stories are about those who are hungry for physical, or spiritual, food, and Avraham's biblical hospitality.  For Ma Nishtana, there is a story from a Warsaw Ghetto seder.  The story for Avadim Hayeenu (We were slaves) compares how the Hebrews were freed with other redemptions.  For the Four CHILDREN, Carlebach defines the children as good, best, clever, and not so clever, and shows how the RaSHa contains the letter SHin and what that may actually connote, and how the clever may be too intellectual and not spiritual enough.  For Motzi Matzah there is a story about Carlebach's father and a matza baker during WWI.  For the main meal, there is an appropriate story about meals that may contain chametz but still be kosher.  The Haggadah closes with a four page glossary of terms, a teaching from Reb Nachman of Bratslav, Hallel, Birkat Hamazon, the Counting of the Omer, Echad Mi Yodea, Adir Hu, and Uv'cheyn Viyhee Ba'chatzee Ha'Leila, with storied commentaries on their paragraphs and meanings.eaching from Reb Nachman of Bratslav, Hallel, Birkat Hamazon, the Counting of the Omer, Echad Mi Yodea, Adir Hu, and Uv'cheyn Viyhee Ba'chatzee Ha'Leila, with storied commentaries on their paragraphs and meanings.	2001-03-19
US	49956909	R1YPMGYJIAWQRE	9652290831	673328046	American Heritage Haggadah: The Passover Experience (English and Hebrew Edition)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	excellent addition to your collection, interesting history 2	This hardcover Haggadah is a great addition to anyone's collection.  It is in RIGHT TO LEFT format. In Hebrew text, and English translation.  No transliterations.  The Hebrew text is a direct copy of an actual American Haggadah from 1857.  In addition to presenting a traditional haggadah, Rabbi Geffen presents stories, illustrations, and tidbits from American Jewish Passover history.  He includes copies of Passover products' ads and Haggadahs that were offered by banks, butchers, soft drink companies, other beverage companies, and other commercial concerns.  For example, there is a matzah baking illustration from 1858, an ad for Dr Brown's Celery Tonic from 1924, a 1935 Passover cruise ad from Cunard, a photo of Rabbi Philip Goodman conducting a seder for the U.S. Army in 1942, a photo of an Army seder aboard a Pullman train car in 1920, color photos of American seder plates, a label from a pesach wine bottle from San Francisco in 1875, a suggested seal of the United State from 1776 that showed the Hebrews crossing the Sea, a label from matzahs that are permitted to be eaten on Wheatless days (by order of an administrator named Herbert Hoover in 1918), handbills for Passover Coca Cola in the 1930's, a copy of Georgia Governor Eugene Talmadge's Passover Matzah Pardon of a Jewish prisoner in 1933, and a copy of an ad for a 1921 State Bank Passover Savings club (let a savings plan free you from financial bondage).  For the Four Sons, Geffen shows renderings of the four sons from haggadahs dating from 1879, 1920, 1950, 1972 (Soviet Jewry movement), and children's model seders	2001-03-14
US	49956909	RMKXL65ZDVXCK	0881253413	963860953	On Wings of Freedom (Leaders Edition)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	very good explanations and format	The Hillel college student Haggadah.  Yellow cover. Paperback.  Right to Left format.  About 150 pages.  A Haggadah filled with directions, Hebrew, English, explanations, reflections, and English transliterations.  Heavy on the English.  For example, Ha Lachma Anya is just one Hebrew paragraph followed by several English readings.  The Four Questions are titled The Four Puzzlements.  They are in Hebrew, English and transliteration and bookended with two English reflections.  I found it very easy to use.  Rather than presenting the text as-is in a linear fashion, the editor has broken up the paragraphs to make them more understandable.  For example, the portions after Avadim Ha-yino and before the ten plagues are subtitled as \\"we were slaves...\\", \\"the rabbis of bnei brak\\", \\"the four praises...\\", \\"the four children\\", \\"a midrashic dialogue: how the Torah text shapes the Haggadah text\\", \\"our degradation: not slavery but idolatry\\", \\"god's promise to abraham\\", reflections on the wandering aramean, and each of the four verses of Deuteronomy 26.  These provide a better understanding of the teachings than the standard haggadah.  The ten plagues are followed by a reading on the modern plagues in our society.  The haggadah closes with a Counting of the Omer and Hallel that is rich with explanations, and traditional songs, such as Ki Lo Naeh, Adir Hu, Echad Mi Yodea, Chad Gadya, Lo Yissa Goy, If I had a Hammer, Follow the Drinking Gourd, Down By The Riverside, and We Shall Overcome, and explanations as to their allegorical natures	2001-03-14
US	49956909	RQ8TH01B787UR	0671799967	462023739	A Passover Haggadah: As Commented Upon by Elie Wiesel and Illustrated by Mark Podwal	Books	4	35	39	N	N	Includes classic stories for your seder table	Nobel laureate Elie Wiesel tells tales, his wife provides translations, and Dr Podwal includes his magical drawings.  Wiesel's commentaries are printed in red (for example, for the Four Sons, he comments on the idea of Four Generations and the transmittal of heritage from knowing (wise) to not-knowing(cant even ask the question)).  The classic Hebrew and English text of the traditional haggadah are in black ink. The Haggadah is in Right to Left format.  While in English and Hebrew, there are no transliterations.	2001-03-11
US	49956909	R78O7W94X6FVH	0870687824	837629222	Passover Haggadah: The Feast of Freedom (English and Hebrew Edition)	Books	5	16	16	N	N	makes for a tasty seder	Yes, This is the standard Haggadah of the CONSERVATIVE movement in America.  It is paperbacked, sturdy, and has a colorful cover with the Hebrews crossing the Sea of blue waves.  It reads RIGHT to LEFT.  144 Pages.  Opens with a page for Erev Pesah, the Search for Hametz, and a page on the deeper meaning of Hametz in our \\"puffed up\\" subverted lives.  The seder readings follow in Hebrew text with facing English translations.  The MARGINS of the Hebrew pages and English pages are filled with running commentaries and quick tidbits that can be read by the leaders and those assembled at the table.  There are many nuggets in here.  For example, the commentary on the response to the \\"wicked child\\" teaches that the words atually mean \\"set his teeth on edge.\\"  Of course, the commentary advises that one shouldn't physically hit, but just use a witty retort.  Or a comment on how the heck Miriam and her sister slaves had timbrels.  There are no Transliterations.  The Four Sons are rendered as Four CHILDREN.  Contains both a Full Grace after Meals and a Short Version of Grace.  Contains a section on the Holocaust and the slavery of the last century.  Contains Hallel and Counting of the Omer.  Closes with Ki Lo Na'eh, Adir Hu, Ehad Mi Yadeia, Had Gadya.	2001-03-11
US	49956909	R2B1GY50CNTSD4	0824603184	470448673	The Concise Family Seder	Books	4	8	8	N	N	A good concise traditional Seder Haggadah	This is 48 pages instead of Kolatch's more traditional 100 pages.  Its good for an Abbreviated seder.  English readings with a smattering of Hebrew text, reserved for the blessings.  The FOUR QUESTIONS are in Hebrew text with English translation and English transliteration.  Also the FOUR QUESTIONS are in the form of a responsive reading.  Dayenu is in abbreviated form and transliterated, too.  The Grace After Meals is abbreviated.  Includes Chad Gadya and Echad Mi Yodeah (Who Knows One)	2001-03-11
US	49956909	R358EQ6SRRJFQO	0916694054	987508267	A Passover Haggadah: Second Revised Edition	Books	5	26	26	N	N	For an enjoyable Telling	Gender neutral language.  Based in Right-to-Left format. Lots of English leader-and-group responsive readings.  Contains Hebrew sections with English translations, and also transliterations for the primary blessings.  The Four Questions are not transliterated, but are in English and Hebrew.  The Four Children are children, not SONS.  Dayenu is in Hebrew and English, no transliteration.  There is a full Grace After Meals in Hebrew and Hallel is in Hebrew and English.  Contains 25 pages of music.	2001-03-11
US	49956909	R1XXRAB0F6KYP1	0824601327	684214729	The Family Seder	Books	4	5	6	N	N	A good traditional haggadah, better than Maxwell House vers.	About 100 pages.  Read RIGHT to LEFT in Hebrew text, facing English translation, and English transliterations for blessings, some songs, and a few opening paragraphs.  Includes responsive readings in English as well as instructions for the leaders for the recitations.  Includes \\"Let My People Go.\\"  For Dayenu, an Englsh responsive reading is included.  Includes the Counting of the Omer blessings, Hallel, and Grace After Meals.	2001-03-11
US	49956909	R24X145PHRRK2	0966474007	68088908	A Different Night, The Family Participation Haggadah	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Why is This Nt Diffrnt  With this, each seder can be diffrnt	Reads Right to Left.  As the authors write, it is a Haggadah to grow with, year after year.  Each seder can be different from the prior years', by selecting new readings.  The Haggadah is tagged with shortcuts for those who want to conduct a quick seder, but not to miss the educational spirit of the process.  The Bare Bones Basic Seder readings are tagged with a BBB diamond symbol (think of the symbol of hot and spicy entrees on a Chinese restaurant menu).  The haggadah opens with Erev Pesach and the Search for Chametz, followed by the burning of the Chametz.  The haggadah also explains Chametz as a symbol of personal arrogance in its commentaries.  The right facing pages are the Hebrew and English seder.  The left facing pages are commentaries and tidbits to share at the table.  The seder is presented in Hebrew with English translations.  The blessings and major paragraphs (such as Ha lachma Anya) have English transliterations also.  The Four sons are rendered as Four CHILDREN, and includes a commentary on whether labeling children is dynamic or static, and whether Abram would have been labeled a rebellious child since he founded monotheism against his father's wishes.  It is followed by six pages of the Four Children in Art, 1920-1988.  This haggadah also includes sections for Shifra and Puah, the heroic women who saved Moses and other babies. The MAGGID or Symposium section contains selections for the assembled on a variety of topics, such as Sexual liberation, Resistance, Rabbinics, Assimilation, Antisemitism, Oppression, or the Wandering Jews.  Choose one and discuss, or make up your own Symposium one year.  The Ten plagues includes a commentary on a Pacifist's view of the plagues.  Dayenu is in English, Hebrew, and transliteration.  It is followed by a Dayenu of contemporary stanzas in English.  The Haggadah includes the Grace After Meals, Hallel, and Sfirat Ha Omer.  It closes with Kee Lo Naeh, Adeer Hu, Echad Mee Yodaia, Chad gadya, Hatikva, Jerusalem of Gold (Shemer), selections from Song of Songs, and three songs for Peace.d (Shemer), selections from Song of Songs, and three songs for Peace.	2001-03-11
US	49956909	RHMQOFOI24B2G	1568710070	276547278	The Malbim Haggadah	Books	4	2	2	N	N	a good addition to one's collection for a pshat rendering	There can be no Answer without a Question. So opens the Malbim Haggadah.  With over 300 pages, it contains a Traditional Right to Left haggadah, compiled by Rabbi Taub of Mercaz ha Torah and Ohr Yerushalayim in Israel.  It is a straightforward reading of the seder text with analysis.  Also known as the Medrash Haggadah.  The book opens with an overview analysis essay (Maama Yesod Musad) from 1894 of the \\"secret structure\\" of the seder.  It is a good addition to anyone's collection of haggadahs, and is a good reference for the seder leader or anyone who wishes to expound upon the ideas presented during the seder.  It includes the Hebrew seder, with an English translation.  Most of the pages are filled with pshat commentaries on the words and ideas of the seder paragraphs.  For example, The FOUR QUESTIONS are in Hebrew, and faced with an English translation, and surrounded by seven pages of commentary on them.	2001-03-11
US	49956909	R175MJIRTPW0P5	0670883417	423094128	The Family Haggadah	Books	4	4	4	N	N	The focus is on kids, and it is successful	The authors created this Haggadah with children and teaching in mind.  The colors and style draw you in. It reads from LEFT to RIGHT, not the hebrew right to left.  With kids under age 12 in mind, it is filled with read-aloud sections.  It opens with a search for the Hametz, and then follows the standard seder.  The text is in ENGLISH and the main blessings are in Hebrew script, English translation, and transliterated Hebrew.  For the Four questions, it includes a page of music, and for Dayenu, it also includes a page of music.  The seder includes a paragraph for Miriam's Cup.  It omits the standard Hallel and Grace after Meals.  It explains \\"Next Year in Jerusalem\\" as a hope to either be in Jerusalem physically, or to be in a world of peace, freedom, and plenty.  The book closes with Khad Gadya	2001-03-11
US	49956909	R32LLCUPZOO8TF	0827606877	488362495	The Kids' Catalog of Passover	Books	5	10	10	N	N	4 cups, 4 kids, 4 questions, 4 parts*4 chapters but 5 stars	Passover is focused on kids and telling the story.  Passover has a lot of fours.  There are four cups, four sons/children, and four questions, so therefore the book has four PARTS and four CHAPTERS in each PART.  Part One is the TELLING (haGaddah) of The Story; Part Two is Preparing for the Seder; Part Three is At The Seder; and Part Four is Concluding The Seder. Each chapter in the Parts is filled with stories, games, explanations, songs, insights, recipes, and craft projects.  For example, in Chapter One, the Exodus story is introduced to the reader with stories, songs (an Exodus rap), midrash stories, a riddle, a game (&quot;I am packing for the Exodus, I am taking an Apple, Bitter Herbs, C..., D...&quot;), and a craft project (make a mural).  The Chapter for the plagues tells how to make a plague puppet.  In the Chapter on Miriam and the Hebrew Women, the reader can learn to make a tambourine.  In Chapter 7, On The Seder plate, you learn about maror and betzah customs from around the world, learn to make charoses, or a charoset pyramid, or play a &quot;nut&quot; game.  Plus there is a recipe for red yemenite eggs.  Chapter 8 on Matzah contains matzah customs, recipes, riddles, and folkstories.  In Chapter 9, learn to make a &quot;Four Questions&quot; kippah to wear.  In Chapter 10, on Dayenu, you can learn to add new stanzas for your own updated Dayenu, or make a micrography, or perform an interesting custom with scallions. In Capter 14, learn about modern Exoduses.  And in Chapter 16, learn classic and new songs from Adir Hu, Ehad Mi Yodei-a, QUEN SUPIESE, Had Gadya, and Lo Yisa Goy.  A must for any household with kids.	2001-03-08
US	49956909	R1QB6YSOE7M9J9	0028623371	236894800	1,000 Jewish Recipes (1,000 Recipes)	Books	5	30	31	N	N	Winner of the 2000 National Jewish Book Award	Winner of the National Jewish Book Award 2000 (awarded March 2001).  Ms Levy is a syndicated columnist with the LA Times and an experienced cookbook author.  Her book contains new and classic Jewish recipes for life and nearly every holiday and Shabbat.  It also includes 23 sample menus.  Each recipe is tagged with either a (P)areve, (M)eat, or (D)airy tag.  Chapters include those for Passover, Shavuot, the High Holidays, Sukkot, Hanukkah, Purim, Shabbat, and Appetizers, Salads, Soups, Dairy Specialties, Fish, Poultry, Meats, Vegetarian and Pareve Main Courses, Veg. Side Dishes, Noodle and Pasta dishes, Rice and Grain dishes, Breads, Desserts, and a section of basics, including flavorings, sauces, and 10 different types of stocks.  Recipes among the 1,000 that I found most interesting including Persian Pear and Banana Haroset for Pesach; Farefl Stuffing with leeks and Carrots; Passover Turkey Schnitzel (incorrectly tagged as Pareve; it is meat); Onion Matza Brei; Spinach and Cottage Cheese Noodle Kugel; Macaroni and Cheese Kugel; Beet Salad with Apples and OJ; Gefilte Fish; Sea Bass with Saffron and Tomato Sauce; Turkey Tzimmes with Sweet Potatoes; Adi Levy's Kibbutz Honey Chicken (you partially roast it, then glaze it with soy and honey); a Meingue Topping; Sephardic Spinach Cakes; Queen Esther's Salad (lettuce, nuts and seeds to eat in the palace); Haman's Fingers; Alsatian Jewish Sauerkraut with Meat; Alsatian Kugelhopf cake; Mock Chopped Liver (one with cashews, one with lentils); Spicy Moroccan Fish Stew; Chicken with Olives; a Friday night Chicken with Cumin Tumeric and Pepper; two dafinas and eight cholents; Miami Style Sweet Potato Puree; at least six chopped liver recipes, 7 hummus, 7 knish, 6 matzo ball (one which is matzo and cholesterol free), 13 challah, 8 bagel, 4 pita, one dozen blintzes, and 5 potato salad recipes; and one for Egyptian Jewish Okra Salad.  Now you can see why it won the award.	2001-03-08
US	49956909	R1ERFWQQO4BO2Q	0374526117	16242831	Dim Sum, Bagels, and Grits: A Sourcebook for Multicultural Families	Books	5	19	22	N	N	Dont Leave Home Without It, Dont Build a Family without it	Dim Sum, Bagels, and Grits sound different at first, but they are all breakfast foods, and they are all based on a grain.  The same holds true for these families.  They may be shaped or sound differently, but they are all based on kids, who underneath are all the same.  I wanted to make sure that I recommended this book today, February 27, 2001.  This week, the U.S. Child Citizenship Act takes effect.  It makes it easier to provide children adopted from abroad with U.S. citizenship.  It is nearly automatic for most children.  But I digress, let's discuss Ms Alperson's sourcebook.  Each year in the USA, about 15% of all adoptions are of children born outside the USA.  (About 20,000 children last year, about 16,000 per year in the past few years, and several hundred thousand over the past 40 years).  These parents, grandparents, and children (children adopted across what are perceived as racial, ethnic and cultural boundaries) face a harder time than some other adoptions, since there is the added bonus of multiculturalism.  Alperson's sourcebook is an excellent guide and a must read for anyone considering adoption or raising a multicultural family.  As the adoptive mother of Sadie Zhenzhen Alperson, she speaks from experience.  She tells the stories of strangers not thinking that her daughter and she are daughter and mother.  She discusses the need to honor both the child's birth heritage and the new family's heritage, and seeking out mentors and role models  (American, Chinese, and Jewish in Alperson's case).  Speaking of religion, she also discusses the subject of religious practice and preferences in the new family.  (Sadly, you know that some imbecile is going to tell Sadie one day, \\"funny you don't look Jewish\\"; hopefully you can protect your child from those relatives who will make them feel that they are in the family as part of some sort of affirmative action program).  Speaking of which, a full chapter is devoted to the many forms of prejudice that adoptive families can face.  The chapter also includes actual accounts of how other families have responded to prejudice. Alperson gives advice on finding and forming groups where your child can play with children who \\"look like\\" or are like them, and what to do if that isn't possible. The sourcebook provides a compendium of resources that can help you create and strengthen multicultural homes, and it also will help you to understand what it means to be multicultural.  Alperson includes interviews with adopted children and experts in the field.  The bottom line is (1) read it if you are adopting; (2) read it if you know families facing these issues, (3) read it if you are teaching children from these families, and (4) read it if you minister or lead congregations with multicultural families.families can face.  The chapter also includes actual accounts of how other families have responded to prejudice. Alperson gives advice on finding and forming groups where your child can play with children who \\"look like\\" or are like them, and what to do if that isn't possible. The sourcebook provides a compendium of resources that can help you create and strengthen multicultural homes, and it also will help you to understand what it means to be multicultural.  Alperson includes interviews with adopted children and experts in the field.  The bottom line is (1) read it if you are adopting; (2) read it if you know families facing these issues, (3) read it if you are teaching children from these families, and (4) read it if you minister or lead congregations with multicultural families.	2001-02-28
US	49956909	R2C3S038H8LZAF	0609806394	555338037	What to Do When You're Dating a Jew : Everything You Need to Know from Matzah Balls to Marriage	Books	3	45	49	N	N	humorous and lite	When I first saw this book, I was conflicted, maybe even insulted.  But in reality, as a member of the Jewish faith, I am not the book's target.  With an American rate of intermarriage that grows higher each decade, this book can't hurt.  It can only help to make non-Jewish partners and spouses more comfortable among members of the North American, culturally Jewish tribe.  The authors, 31, know a tad about their chosen subject.  They have dated non-Jewish men most of their adult lives.  Jennifer Block married a non-Jewish spouse, while Vicki Weiss' three siblings all married non-Jewish spouses.  The authors witnessed first hand the questions these dates and spouses raised, and the social faux pas they made in front of older family members (you know, like ordering cheese and ham in a kosher deli, bringing bread to a seder, using mayo, buying retail, etc.).  If the preceding line in parentheses irritates you, then this book will just enrage you.  The book provides an overview and fingernail sketch of the basics of American Jewish practice, a briefing on the rituals and major Jewish observed holidays, and painfully entertaining stories from interfaith couples.  You can tell it is a Jewish book, cuz it is peppered with Yiddish terms (sorry, no Ladino), and includes a recipe for chicken soup, and some Jewish jokes.  The book has a translation of the Shema prayer, some other prayers, and some quotes, like that of Rabbi Hillel (If I am not for my self...)  But a Jewish reader might find these perfunctory, since although there is a translation of the Shema, don't expect to find a deeper explanation or meaning of why the prayer or other quotes are central to the Jewish faith.  The authors write that \\"shiksa\\" should not be viewed as a pejorative word.  Yeah .. right, and if you believe that, let me sell you something at its retail price.  Jewish readers might be confused, when they read the Shabbat is on the 6th day of the week, rather than the 7th; but please remember that the book is targeted to non-Jews, who view Sunday as the seventh day.  The authors give brief explanations of the major holidays (Rosh Hashana, Yom Kippur, Hanukkah, Passover, and the weekly Shabbat).  Even briefer explanations are given for the observance of Purim, Sukkot, and other holidays.  But as the authors write, if you have to worry about these holidays, then you are dating a \\"super-Jew\\"; and maybe they are right, since those observing these holidays are probably not going to be seriously pursuing interfaith relationships.  Or are they?  So, if you are looking for a painless, glib, lite, humor-filled entry in Jewish foods, eating traditions, and holidays, it can't hurt to read this book, and it may raise questions for further discussion between the couple, or further, more serious study by both partners.he book is targeted to non-Jews, who view Sunday as the seventh day.  The authors give brief explanations of the major holidays (Rosh Hashana, Yom Kippur, Hanukkah, Passover, and the weekly Shabbat).  Even briefer explanations are given for the observance of Purim, Sukkot, and other holidays.  But as the authors write, if you have to worry about these holidays, then you are dating a \\"super-Jew\\"; and maybe they are right, since those observing these holidays are probably not going to be seriously pursuing interfaith relationships.  Or are they?  So, if you are looking for a painless, glib, lite, humor-filled entry in Jewish foods, eating traditions, and holidays, it can't hurt to read this book, and it may raise questions for further discussion between the couple, or further, more serious study by both partners.	2001-02-09
US	49956909	R2VUX996CX89D4	0740706098	281129523	Boondocks: Because I Know You Don't Read The Newspaper	Books	5	42	44	N	N	Needed Now more than ever in a Bush administration	The subtitle of the book is &quot;Because I Know You Don't Read The Newspaper.&quot;  Well, I read the newspaper, but as a committed  reader of The New York Times, I don't have the opportunity to read the daily comic strips (since the NYT contains no syndicated daily strips).  But I heard about The Boondocks and bought the book.  What can I say?  If there was a Mount Rushmore for cartoonists, Mr, McGruder belongs there.  Not only are the strips funny, witty, and biting, but as a graduate of social and cultural analysis studies at Maryland, his perceptions are dead on.  As McGruder writes, &quot;the truth hurts.&quot;  It hurts because your stomach hurts so bad from the laughing.  Who else would think of putting an insulting blurb from the President of BET on the back cover of the book, if not a genius?  As was written above and below, Huey and Riley Freeman move with their grandfather to the white suburbs of Woodcrest from downtown Chicago.  It's their grandfather's dream and 40 acres, but Huey thinks that he is the mule.  It is a town where the grammar school is named for J Edgar Hoover, and the junior high is named for George Wallace (or so Huey's grandfather mused). Riley's teacher was a nun and worked in a prison before becoming a teacher.  Huey and Riley's neighbors include an interracial couple, their daughter, and a naïve white girl.  Huey and Riley work hard to keep it real, but your laughs will come easy.  I can't wait a next volume. I hope it includes Huey, Caesar and Mr. Tom Dubois' debate over Kwanzaa (budget Hanukkah? or a perpetuation of a fallacy of monolithic African culture?)  Where is the line a Boondock's greeting cards?	2001-01-16
US	49956909	R2111GK6UJA5IO	1573221694	992222048	Black, White, and Jewish: Autobiography of a Shifting Self	Books	5	26	32	N	N	a unique story of pain, growth, and identity	Like a painting by the African American artist, Kerry James Marshall, Rebecca Walker is multi-layered.  The daughter of the novelist Alice Walker writes about her pain and struggle to find a place between her divorced parents vastly different worlds, black and white, Jewish and non-Jewish.  Her mother, Alice Walker, is, of course, the famed African American author, while Rebecca's father is a Jewish lawyer, Mel Leventhal.  (kind of similar to Lisa Jones, the daughter of Hetty Jones, the Jewish author, and Amiri Baraka, the African American poet.) .  Her parents got married in Mississippi when interracial marriages were still illegal.  Born in 1969, in a newly desegregated hospital in Jackson, Mississippi, she was a child and symbol of the civil rights movement.  But when the marriage ended, what was her identity?  (in contrast to being in an airport, where you have a definite identity and goal, that of passenger and destination)  Each chapter is freshly written in the precocious voice of Rebecca at the age of her events, whether she be a preteen or an adult.  Rebecca's writes of identity, a life in a divorced family, prejudice, and Jewish relatives who are wary of her (it's as if you aren't really part of the family, but there as part of an affirmative action program).  But at the same time, reserved, she admits that she was unable to fully commit to either sides of the family.  She writes of a boyfriend who doesn't think she is black enough, sexuality, drug abuse, teenage abortion, ballet prejudice, body form, how she loved to sneak off to the poorer sections of the Bronx from her father's home in Riverdale, how she was often thought of as the baby sitter for are light skinned step-siblings, or perceived as a bookish cracker by some of her black cousins, and other cutting edge topics.  She writes about the feelings you experience when your blood ancestry doesn't claim you fully, and you have to create a new family and identity.  A book to experience.	2001-01-10
US	49956909	R1NHMD73329JFU	0684871793	272714040	The End of Days: Fundamentalism and the Struggle for the Temple Mount	Books	5	47	57	N	N	A rapturous must read in the wake of Middle East violence	Those who avoid this book are doing themselves a disservice.  Could you have asked for better timing for this book? Is it any wonder that the film that swept the 2000 Israeli Film Academy Awards, Hahesder, was the story about a religious plot to blow up the Al Aqsa Mosque?  Is it a surprise that the Palestinian Authority used the visit of a Jewish Israeli political leader to the Temple Mount as a spark to begin rioting over the peace agreement negotiations (just like Mufti Hajj Amin Al-Husseini did in 1928)?  Or that MK Ariel Sharon used his visit to the Temple Mount as a ploy for his party's leadership?  Or that a best selling series of books in the USA are based the belief of a coming Rapture?  All three Western religions conceived of an End of Days. The Book of Revelations read by Christians expects wars and a Jewish antichrist before the End of Days; while Moslems need a Dajjal, or Jewish false Messiah, for its own End Hour to occur.  It is a ticking bomb, an urgency for fundamentalists, all focused on 35 acres in the SE corner of Jerusalem's walled Old City.<br />Gorenberg, a senior editor at The Jerusalem Report, and regular in the pages of The New Republic, moved to Israel in 1977. To write this book, Gorenberg, a journalist focused on the nexus of religion and politics, interviewed Christians, Jews, and Moslems, many of whom hold views of an END OF DAYS.  All their scenarios focus on the Temple Mount and Al Haram Al Sharif / Noble Sanctuary.  I began to read THE END OF DAYS as I sat in a Jerusalem hotel room, near The King David Hotel, overlooking the Old City's walls.  It was almost a week before the holiday of Hanukkah, which commemorates the victory of the Maccabees, who won back control of the Temple Mount.  Jetlagged at 3 AM, with a full moon and a light rain, I started Chapter 1, and the book's story unfolded with heightened suspense. Many Jews believe that Abraham nearly sacrificed Isaac on the mount, that King David erected an altar there, that King Solomon and Herod built Temples there, and as Rabbi Levi wrote in 200 CE, that Cain murdered Abel for control of the Mount. Moslems leveled the mount and built the Dome of the Rock there, and Christians believe it will be the site of the Third Temple.  What will happen after the year 2000 if the Messiah does not come?  How will the fundamentalists of all 3 primary Western religions react?  If Jews do not return to Jerusalem and a war occurs, how will the Rapture and Gods Kingdom come to pass?  If Jews control the Mount, how will Mecca migrate to Jerusalem for the advent of a Moslem end of time?  If Jews do not control the site, how will a Third Temple be built?  Gorenberg shows how the future is bound up with the past. The first chapter tells the story of Melody the calf.  She was born in August 1996, three years prior to the Year 2000.  She was born red, and a red Heifer is required for sacrifices to re-commence in a Third Temple; an event that is needed by Christians in order to bring about the End of Days.  Gorenberg describes this disturbing and unusual alliance.  Chapters 2-4 tell the story of Christian millenialism and Jewish messianism, and its effects on Cromwell's England, the Puritans, the British Mandate, the 1948 Israeli War of Independence, the 1967 Six Day War, Dayan's orders to remove an Israeli flag from the captured Mount, and even Christian evangelical attitudes towards the assassination of PM Rabin.  Chapter 5 is filled with fascinating portraits of members of American evangelical groups, the late Rabbi Meir Kahane (Michael King), the Jewish Temple Mount Faithful, Gush Emunim settlers, Banch Davidians at Waco, the American Jewish loner who shot up the Dome in 1982, and the Australian Christian paranoid schizophrenic who nearly succeeded in burning part of Al Aqsa Mosque in 1967.  Later chapters portray the people who are preparing for a Third Jewish Temple (such as the men who are producing priestly garments of flax and linen, to the rabbi who seeks to raise observant boys of the priestly class who have never been in contact with the dead so that they can sacrifice a red heifer, to the Christian Zionists who come to Israel for the Tabernacles festival); as well as the Temple Faithful activists who sue each year for greater access; Bassam Jirrar of Ramallah, who calculates the end of Israel through his mathematical analysis of the Koran; the popular writings of Egyptian author Sa'id Ayyub and Palestinian writer Fa'iq Da'ud;  a Texan who hopes to drill for oil near the Dead Sea as per the Lord's instructions; and other unique characters.  This book is an enlightening decoder and story, and it is a must read for anyone interested in peace in the Middle East.seeks to raise observant boys of the priestly class who have never been in contact with the dead so that they can sacrifice a red heifer, to the Christian Zionists who come to Israel for the Tabernacles festival); as well as the Temple Faithful activists who sue each year for greater access; Bassam Jirrar of Ramallah, who calculates the end of Israel through his mathematical analysis of the Koran; the popular writings of Egyptian author Sa'id Ayyub and Palestinian writer Fa'iq Da'ud;  a Texan who hopes to drill for oil near the Dead Sea as per the Lord's instructions; and other unique characters.  This book is an enlightening decoder and story, and it is a must read for anyone interested in peace in the Middle East.	2001-01-10
US	49956909	R1YNOSEN067VJI	0316831557	502840586	Double Victory: A Multicultural History of America in World War II	Books	4	12	14	N	N	What Zinn did for AmHist; Takaki does for WWII	The story u dont here from Brokaw.  Takaki, a third generation American of Japanese heritage and Berkeley prof, teaches that no one ever made a film about the race riots that occurred during WWII, you never hear about the Mexican Americans who harvested crops to supply the troops.  You never hear speeches about the Jim Crow rules, the Navajo, black, Korean, Filipino, Indian, German, Japanese, and other Americans during the great War.  This book fills in the gaps, with stories about Korean Americans who fought (one fifth of Los Angeles' Korean population joined the California National Guard) in the Tiger Brigade/Manghokun, the Sikhs and Hindus duing WWII, the 550,000 Jewish Americans who joined the US Armed Forces and earned 26,000 Purple hearts (out of 4.5 Million american Jews, they were proportionately more than any other group), the African Americans who liberated Buchenwald, and the Nisei Japanese American soldiers who liberated Dachau, and more	2000-12-10
US	49956909	R27ZFXKBZN463H	0684870037	856579010	The World Of Jewish Desserts: More Than 400 Delectable Recipes from Jewish Communities	Books	5	22	27	N	N	if u think Jewish desserts stopped at honey cake, read this	Gil Marks, a rabbi, historian, linguistic detective and the author of three other books on kosher cooking and entertaining, provides a taste of not only the dishes, but the history of the Jewish communities that developed and transformed the dishes.  And I don't mean an insert here and there, I am talking a page for each essay.  For example, the story of German Jewish cooking, or Salonika Greek Jewry.  I guarantee that you'll never look at a latka the same way after reading his latest book.  The book opens with a treatise on cooking and baking.  Did you ever wonder why fat is added to Jewish desserts (butters, oils, etc)?  Is it any wonder that the person who introduced dry yeast (the kind that can be activated in your home by adding water) was a Hungarian Jew named Fleischmann?  It's in the book.  The chapters headings follow this format:  Yeast Cakes and Pastries; Cakes; Cookies; Filled Cookies; Strudels and Phyllo; Fried Pastries; Pan Cakes; Baked Puddings and Kugels; Stovetop Puddings; Fruit based Desserts; Confections; and a whole chapter for Passover Pesach desserts/  For each recipe, Marks adds a tidbit of history or Semitic semantics.  For example, for the Kuchen Buchen recipe, Marks discusses Yiddish rhyming, or for the recipe for Makosh Poppy Seed Rolls, he  writes about how the German Mohn (poppy) filled cakes evolved into the Polish Makowiec rolls and German Makosh.  Add some Hungarian cocoa, and you turn  Makosh into Kakosh.  Recipes are included for Debla; Lokmas; Loukoumades (in time for Hanukkah); Bombay Malpuah Banana Fritters; stuffed dates; blintzes; latkas of all sorts; marzipan, the Indian Jewish rice pudding called Kheer; Seffa; Brot Kugel; an Indian Carrot Halvah Pudding; an Alsatian Apple Charlotte (ApfelSchalet); a grandmother load that Seinfeld would know as a Babka; Schnecken; Haman-taschen; prune lekvar; Sephardic style Parmak, Moroccan Jewish Fakasch; Persian Klaitcha; Apfelkaka (don't you just love that name?); Iraqi Jewish Rayka Tamir; Lakach honey cake; Lepeny; strudels; Rugelach with a variety of fillings; Kadayif; Kindli; Kranszli; Farfel bars (not just for soup, you know); Biscotti (did you know that means twice baked?); Basboosah (a dessert, not a type of bus); Dobostorte 7 layer cake; and even a Gebleterter Kugel (a type of fluden).Lakach honey cake; Lepeny; strudels; Rugelach with a variety of fillings; Kadayif; Kindli; Kranszli; Farfel bars (not just for soup, you know); Biscotti (did you know that means twice baked?); Basboosah (a dessert, not a type of bus); Dobostorte 7 layer cake; and even a Gebleterter Kugel (a type of fluden).	2000-12-09
US	49956909	R1VT7WBHSK16AV	0312272677	359322545	Jews Who Rock	Books	2	39	40	N	N	A Good Idea, But Could Have Been Better	After reading a book about Jewish Sports Heroes (no it is not that slim), the Israeli born music exec and Madonna Maverick partner, Guy Oseary, got the idea to compile a book of 100 top Jewish rockers, or rockers with some Jewish parentage or heritage.  The forward by Ben Stiller and the afterward by Perry (Peretz) Farrell (Bernstein) are interesting, and I wish the rest of the book followed their formats.  Stiller talks of his Bar Mitzvah and how his band played at the after party.  Stiller played on a drumset that he got for xmas (hmmm).  They played &quot;Hey Jude&quot; (Jew'd).  Farrell writes about the Biblical musicians, such as David.  My complaint with this book is that it lists the artists, one per page, giving some bio info, such as birthdate, birthplace, and discography, but there are no interviews with the rockers.  It left me hanging.  I wondered, how is Warren Zevon Jewish?  How did the Beastie Boys bnai Mitzvot affect their work?  How did Saul Hudson go from Saul to Slash?  I was hoping for something akin to the webzine PLOTZ, which actually interviewed Beck and other Jewish rockers about their Jewish heritages.  But this book just lists some basic facts.  I am sure it will make a good gift for other Jewish rockers and trivia specialists.  It includes no brainers, like barry Manilow, Gene Simmons, Randy Newman, Mark Knopfler, Paul Simon, Lisa Loeb, Billy Joel, Dylan, Carole King, Kenny G (Gorelick), The Beastie Boys, and Phranc; but I wish it had given more data on Herb Alpert, Malcolm McLaren, and Zevon.  The rockers out there will be excited to read about the Jewish members of The Doors, Foo Fighters, Blood, Sweat &amp; Tears, Yo La Tengo, Matchbox 20, Elastica, Wang Chung, Blue Oyster Cult, Counting Crows, Janes Addiction, The Mamas and the Pappas, and Megadeth.	2000-11-11
US	49956909	R215GUX1X6UOBP	0811826627	21809556	Sephardic Flavors: Jewish Cooking of the Mediterranean	Books	4	60	65	N	N	A Fascinating Filling Exploration of Sephardic Cuisine	Chef, author, restaurateur, and Mediterranean cooking specialist Joyce Goldstein follows her acclaimed Cucina Ebraica: Flavors of the Italian Jewish Kitchen with a study of Mediterranean Jewish cooking.  While researching Cucina Ebraica, she immersed herself in Sephardic History.  She wondered how the Jews evolved their cuisine, what influences they took from the Moors, the Portuguese, Andalusians, Valencians, Balearic Islanders, Greeks, Ottomans, and  Balkans.  What were the harmonizations to other communities and the contrasts to the Italian Jewish cuisine she was researching?  She answers these questions and more in the book's opening collection of essays (about 22 pages).  This is followed by several pages of sample full menus for Shabbat and Jewish holidays and commemorations.  For example, there are Leek Fritters for Hanukkah, Mijavyani (a vegetable soup with plums) for Tu B'Shevat, Lentil Soup for Tisha B'Av, or Moussaka di Pesce and Macaroni and Cheese-Thrace Style (using feta and non-elbow Ziti) for Shavuot.  If you are wondering how her book compares to DRIZZLE OF HONEY by David Gitlitz and Linda Kay Davidson, it is her feeling that while DRIZZLE is filled with fascintaing stories and history, her cookbook adds more culinary skills to the execution of recipes.  The chapters include ones for Salads and Appetizers; Savory Pastries; Soups; Vegetables and Grains; Fish; Poultry and Meat; and Desserts.  In the chapter for Salads and Appetizers, Goldstein writes, that Sephardic cuisine inverts the oil to vinegar ratio (3:1) with which most North Americans are familiar. Sephardic cooking is more tart, so the vinegar ratio is much higher (1:3). My favorite recipes were the Tarator (a cousin to Tzatziki) and Huevos HAMINados, or onion skin eggs, or Jewish eggs (Yahudi Yamurta).  The chapter on savory pastries, which are also known as borekas, inchusa, tapada, rondanches, boyos, and filas (to name just a few), includes recipes for Izmir-style Handrajos, or Eggplant and Squash filled borekas.  In her chapter on soups, Goldstein tells the reader that it is not a coincidence that the Spanish word for Jewess is the same for bean (judia).  She provides recipes for several soups and adafina, or what some Jews may call cholent.  My favorites included meatball soup, and a white bean soup. There are 24 recipes in the Vegetables and Grains chapter.  Standouts are Turlu, a Turkish Ratatouille; a squash omelet fritada; and pumpkin and prunes, which resembles a Moroccan Jewish style Hilou. The tomato bread pudding was also very unique.  A fish dish that is very interesting for the period between Simhat Torah and Hanukkah is Peshkado Avramila, or fish with sour plums or prunes.  Goldstein writes that it recalls Abraham's self-circumcision, since Sephardic folklore says that Avraham sat under a plum tree after the procedure.  The 22 meat and poultry recipes includes one for Gayna al Orno, a roast chicken with apples and pomegranates; and one for Keftas de Gayna, chicken meatballs with egg and lemons (two of them).  The standout is the Rollo me HAMINados is a meatloaf with sweet and sour tomato sauce (uses honey and wine) baked with eggs in the center.  The book closes, as do meals, with desserts that include Hanukkah Fritters in a honey lemon glaze; Baklava, Tispishti, Sutlatch, and Zerda ( a rice pudding).nd Squash filled borekas.  In her chapter on soups, Goldstein tells the reader that it is not a coincidence that the Spanish word for Jewess is the same for bean (judia).  She provides recipes for several soups and adafina, or what some Jews may call cholent.  My favorites included meatball soup, and a white bean soup. There are 24 recipes in the Vegetables and Grains chapter.  Standouts are Turlu, a Turkish Ratatouille; a squash omelet fritada; and pumpkin and prunes, which resembles a Moroccan Jewish style Hilou. The tomato bread pudding was also very unique.  A fish dish that is very interesting for the period between Simhat Torah and Hanukkah is Peshkado Avramila, or fish with sour plums or prunes.  Goldstein writes that it recalls Abraham's self-circumcision, since Sephardic folklore says that Avraham sat under a plum tree after the procedure.  The 22 meat and poultry recipes includes one for Gayna al Orno, a roast chicken with apples and pomegranates; and one for Keftas de Gayna, chicken meatballs with egg and lemons (two of them).  The standout is the Rollo me HAMINados is a meatloaf with sweet and sour tomato sauce (uses honey and wine) baked with eggs in the center.  The book closes, as do meals, with desserts that include Hanukkah Fritters in a honey lemon glaze; Baklava, Tispishti, Sutlatch, and Zerda ( a rice pudding).	2000-11-11
US	49956909	R1ZC2JTTO6F5NS	0375405461	734527822	The Avengers: A Jewish War Story	Books	3	6	10	N	N	If you like the book, try the Audio CD and film	While it is an interesting book, the writing style on this book, or the author's previous one, TOUGH JEWS, just doesn't work for me.  It is too heroic, and I am too prudish for imagined conversations.  But I still recommend the book, and also recommend that you purchase the Audio CD, available on AMAZON, for THE PARTISANS OF VILNA, the music of the partisans about whom this book is about.  The documentary film, THE PARTISANS OF VILNA, by Aviva Kempner is also in release.<br />I know that some readers may quibble that his exploration of the lives of Abba Kovner, Ruzka Korczak, and Vitka Kempner, doesn't get psychological (why Kovner blamed victims for their own deaths), sexual (threesomes, etc), or Freudian enough for their tastes, but these are minor issues when placed against the book as a whole	2000-11-02
US	49956909	R46EBSLHDSBNQ	1580230768	638100037	The Women's Torah Commentary: New Insights from Women Rabbis on the 54 Weekly Torah Portions	Books	5	74	74	N	N	The must-buy for any Bat Mitzvah and everyone else	When you picture a rabbi, do you picture a young, beardless, mother of three?  You should.  As Rabbi Goldstein writes in the introduction, Abraham Geiger wrote in 1837 that \\"our whole religious life will profit from the beneficial influence which feminine hearts will bestow upon it.\\"  Rabbi Elyse Goldstein, a 1983 HUC-JIR grad, is the leader of the Kolel Adult Center for Liberal Jewish Learning program in Toronto , a program that is so successful that they are building their own building.  She wanted to be a rabbi since the day of her Bat Mitzvah ceremony.  She knows that divrei Torah by women provide a unique perspective.  I predict that her book will be the bat mitzvah gift book of choice in this decade.  Over fifty, YES FIFTY, women rabbis teach the reader with inspiring commentaries, and NOT JUST feminist commentaries on the parsha's that deal with the Hebrew matriarchs.  No, this is in the weekly Torah portion format, starting with Bereshit/Genesis' first chapter (Bereshit) and ending with Davarim/Deuteronomy's last chapter (Vzot Habrachah/The Death of Moses).  The week by week format is an asset, and makes it an excellent resource. And not only does the book contain enlightening commentaries, but there are nearly half page biographies for each of the rabbis who provide the commentaries.  These bios provide as much enjoyment as the commentaries, since they provide a profile of each woman's path to the rabbinate.  The Foreword is by Rabbi Amy Eilberg (JTS, 85).  In it she lays the groundwork for women in the rabbinate (beginning with Regina Jonas in 1935, Sally Preisand in 1972 and Sandy Sasso in 1974) and its feminization. Some of my favorite commentaries were Rabbi Lori Forman's (JTS, 88) Bereshit discourse on the creation of Eve; Rabbi Rebecca Alpert's (RRC, 76) Shmot drash on Tziporah; Rabbi Karyn Kedar's (HUC, 85) Ve-era commentary on the many names on God; Rabbi Ilene Schneider's (RRC, 76) Shemini discourse on Kashrut, Food, Women , and Eating Disorders;  Rabbi Gila Colman Ruskin's (HUC, 83) insight into Ekev- Circumcision, Womb, and Spiritual Intimacy; Rabbi Barbara Rosman Penzer's (RRC, 87) commentary on Serach daughter of Asher in Vayechi;  and Rabbi Helaine Ettinger's (HUC, 91) drash on Tazria, niddah, and brit milah. And, of course, there are 47 more.Rabbi Gila Colman Ruskin's (HUC, 83) insight into Ekev- Circumcision, Womb, and Spiritual Intimacy; Rabbi Barbara Rosman Penzer's (RRC, 87) commentary on Serach daughter of Asher in Vayechi;  and Rabbi Helaine Ettinger's (HUC, 91) drash on Tazria, niddah, and brit milah. And, of course, there are 47 more.	2000-10-24
US	49956909	R1MYTUHOV92CYW	0151006520	666826976	Postville: A Clash of Cultures in Heartland America	Books	5	29	41	N	N	Where do I sign up to option the film rights	First let me ask that reviewers not give away the ending, since the book reads like a mystery.<br />This book was especially poignant, since I read about the slaughterhouse killfloor the day after reading about the Akedah at a synagogue, and I ate a Rubashkin chicken last week...  Bloom, a journalism professor at the University of Iowa, tries to find commonalties with his own secular Jewish life and the lives of the members of a Lubavitcher Hassidic community that moved in 1987 from Brooklyn to Postville, Iowa in order to build and manage a kosher slaughterhouse.  They moved to Northeast Iowa - where pigs outnumber people by a large magnitude.  Aaron Rubashkin, his peanut-and-Tums-popping son, Shalom, and over thirty rabbis trained to kill livestock and inspect kosher meat, plus friends and relatives moved to the town and revitalized the boarded-up slaughterhouse, AgriProcessors.  They hired hundreds of immigrants from Mexico, Central America, Africa, and Eastern Europe.  Some were illegal aliens, some got into brawls, but that wasn't the issue.  Most residents of Postville, a town of less than 1,500 souls, most of them devout evangelical Lutheran Christians, were happy with the new slaughterhouse and its economic benefits.  But as the Lubavitcher community expanded to 150 souls and many homes and buildings, suspicions and complaints by the 'older, more American' residents of Postville grew.  This was a town of old ways, where success and vacations are kept quiet, and where Catholics and Lutherans banked at separate banks.  Some older residents of Postville didn't understand why the Jews didn't eat in the cafes or purchase non-kosher foods, why they tried to haggle in the stores, why they wouldn't shake hands, why they didn't mow their lawns or ask for help?  Why didn't the buy retail?  Why didn't they support the local merchants where outward co-dependence was expected?  Were the Hasidim oblivious  of the unwritten code of tidiness in Postville; did they even care?  Did some residents scapegoat the Jews, instead of the local WalMart, for decreasing merchant revenue?  In the course of the story, the town attempts to win back control of the slaughterhouse through an annexation referendum, led by City Councilman Leigh Rekow, a farmer and former Peace Corps volunteer.  The vote was a barely hidden vote on whether to expel the Jews.  This is also a story of Bloom's family's move from California to Iowa, a place with small bagels, low rise buildings, trucks, fishing rods, friendly neighbors, and guns.  Bloom is trying to belong to this midwestern place where the barber is confused by Mr. Bloom's dark curly hair (they are used to blondes, or maybe Bloom was a little hypersensitive), or where Jesus might get mentioned in a Cub Scouts meeting, newspaper headline, or spooky tour.  But he gets drawn in to make a connection with his fellow Jews.  But will Bloom let go?  Will he accept the non assimilationist attitudes of the Lubavitchers he meets?  Will he avoid eating ham and cheese in the parking lot of the slaughterhouse? Will the Lutheran minister be banished by his parish for preaching inclusiveness?  This is a great Autumn read, even if you buy it just for the hilarious comparisons Bloom makes between Jewish kippot and farmer's caps; Jewish davening and Lutheran head nodding; and Jewish &quot;nu's&quot; and Lutheran &quot;don't-cha-think's.&quot;?  Did some residents scapegoat the Jews, instead of the local WalMart, for decreasing merchant revenue?  In the course of the story, the town attempts to win back control of the slaughterhouse through an annexation referendum, led by City Councilman Leigh Rekow, a farmer and former Peace Corps volunteer.  The vote was a barely hidden vote on whether to expel the Jews.  This is also a story of Bloom's family's move from California to Iowa, a place with small bagels, low rise buildings, trucks, fishing rods, friendly neighbors, and guns.  Bloom is trying to belong to this midwestern place where the barber is confused by Mr. Bloom's dark curly hair (they are used to blondes, or maybe Bloom was a little hypersensitive), or where Jesus might get mentioned in a Cub Scouts meeting, newspaper headline, or spooky tour.  But he gets drawn in to make a connection with his fellow Jews.  But will Bloom let go?  Will he accept the non assimilationist attitudes of the Lubavitchers he meets?  Will he avoid eating ham and cheese in the parking lot of the slaughterhouse? Will the Lutheran minister be banished by his parish for preaching inclusiveness?  This is a great Autumn read, even if you buy it just for the hilarious comparisons Bloom makes between Jewish kippot and farmer's caps; Jewish davening and Lutheran head nodding; and Jewish &quot;nu's&quot; and Lutheran &quot;don't-cha-think's.&quot;	2000-10-24
US	49956909	R6SL10CTL8QB4	0300074751	650909683	The Ancient Synagogue: The First Thousand Years	Books	5	16	18	N	N	Will be the leading work in the field, Blows Your Conception	Lee Levine is a Professor at Hebrew University in Jerusalem, and this is a fresh perspective on the ancient synagogue (gathering place).  According the Levine, the synagogue was not just a replacement for the Temple that was destroyed.  It was not only a center of learning and prayer that faced Jerusalem.   According to Levine, prayer was not even the primary function.  It was a community center that even served meals.  Prayer was not done according to the Talmud and its leadership had nothing to do with rabbis. As is done today, the benefactors of early synagogues even had their names displayed in gold on plaques.  The early synagogues were embellished by paintings and mosaics of birds and icons, including pagan and non-Jewish astrological signs.  More money was spent on large synagogues than on the schools and academies. (the more things change the more they stay the same, no?)  Levine writes that there is no verification that females were ever separated into galleries.  Greek and Aramaic were the predominant languages in the early synagogues. They did not become prayer centers til about the fourth century.  In the words of the Times Literary Supplement, this is a weighty and meaty book.	2000-10-19
US	49956909	R3UVNMLNCBDK8C	0451201507	608936577	Drudge Manifesto	Books	1	12	28	N	N	sorry, but this book is too hard to read.  disappointing	Sure the character of Matt Drudge is unique and reminds one of Walter Winchell, and I have read his website sometimes, although his politics are not mine. But after I bought this book I tried to read it three times, and even just tried to skim it a few times. I failed.  Didn't it have an editor?  It's layout and style just do not match my reading style.  I recommend you thumb through the book at a bricks and mortar store before  deciding to purchase it.  What I did read was not interesting.  His diary style has so much potential, but it is just too cumbersome to plod through, I didn't find it interesting, and there is just no there there.	2000-10-18
US	49956909	R3L4M98SPCND4H	0670893129	519771728	Healthy Jewish Cooking	Books	4	25	25	N	N	Yes, it's true, kosher cooking can be lite and tasty	Who knew that Jewish cooking can have a light touch? Raichlen, like many reformed Jews growing up in Pikesville/Baltimore in the 1950's, lived his Judaism through his foods - soups, mandelech, pirogis, briskets, desserts, flanken, knaidlach, tsimmis, and baklava.  But, today, these foods can be done lite. His techniques include bake-frying and grilling, focusing on naturally low fat foods, using egg substitutes, using chicken broth instead of schmaltz, increasing the ratio of vegetables to meats, sauteing with non stick pans, and roasting.  His 175 recipes include mock schmaltz made from canola oil, a breakfast sangria (for a Yom Kippur Break Fast) from the Caribbean, Curacaoan hot cocoa, quick bake-fried kreplach, sweet cheese kreplach, sephardic empanadas, baltic pirogi, veggie chopped liver, lowfat chopped chicken liver, a low fat chicken soup, matzo ball soup, hot borscht, Greek egg-lemon matzo soup, sauerkraut soup, salonikan soup, and sorrel schav soup.  He includes eleven salads including a two-egg-salad made from eggs and eggplants.  Speaking of vegetable dishes, there are fourteen, including a tropical tsimmis, a Jewish Romanian polenta (mamaliga) made with garlic and cinnamon; a basil marinated zucchini dish, and Pesach Spanekopita.  Several breads are described, including a honey VANILLA challah, Passover rolls, onion rolls, matzo muffins, and Bukharan steamed buns with cilantro and chives. A Sephardic style scrambled eggs with garlic, paprika, cumin and bell peppers (strapatsata or Tunisian chakchouka) is a standout.  In terms of meats, recipes include low fat Israeli spiced turkey cutlets, chicken cutlets with a mushroom stuffing, Syrian style Chicken with eggplant (a new Shepherds Pie); a sweet and sour turkey stuffed cabbage roll; holiday brisket with raisins, grape wine, prunes, and apricots; a Napa Valley style brisket; lamb tagine, and a Three-B's cholent.  Five kugel recipes include a carrot apple kugel, and a zucchini kugel.  Desserts include zvingous, or Greek Hanukkah fritters that are baked.  They became a sensation after being mentioned in 1999 in a NYT Hanukkah recipe.  A strudel recipe includes a Greek-Sephardic Pumpkin strudel that is usually eaten at Sukkot (Rodanchas de la Calabaza).  Finally, let me add a word on Greg Schneider's photography... great.  His picture of assorted low fat blintzes lying atop Hebrew newspapers, corralled by a set of tefillin is worthy of individual sale as a lithograph.ngous, or Greek Hanukkah fritters that are baked.  They became a sensation after being mentioned in 1999 in a NYT Hanukkah recipe.  A strudel recipe includes a Greek-Sephardic Pumpkin strudel that is usually eaten at Sukkot (Rodanchas de la Calabaza).  Finally, let me add a word on Greg Schneider's photography... great.  His picture of assorted low fat blintzes lying atop Hebrew newspapers, corralled by a set of tefillin is worthy of individual sale as a lithograph.	2000-10-12
US	49956909	R2K5XJZWKS13K1	0375503854	515525568	The Half-Jewish Book: A Celebration	Books	4	36	37	N	N	Surprisingly, an entertaining book	I didn't want to like this book, since I don't believe you can be half-Jewish in religious terms, since religions have differing beliefs, and one may not believe simultaneously in philosophies with opposing world and cosmic views.  But this book is discussing Jewishness as a pop culture, and I have to admit, that it is very entertaining and well designed.  I will even overlook that it puts a stereotypical half-bagel on the cover, just as Asian American books use red or a bowl of rice, and African American books use bold colored cover art.  According to the authors. in the United States, there are more half-Jews than \\"full Jews\\" under the age of eleven.  Daniel Klein and Freke Vuijst live in Great Barrington, Massachusetts, where they are raising their half-American-Jewish, half-Dutch-Christian daughter. Half Jewish is a new and rapidly growing identity (if we disregard the Biblical children of Joseph and Moses (Hebrews)). The Half-Jewish Book celebrates this unique identity that until now has been dissed and avoided. The authors fill this book with profiles, interviews, and quotes from half Jewish literary characters (Margaret Simon from Judy Blume's 1970 book, \\"Are You There God? It's Me Margaret\\"); cartoon characters (Tommy and Dyl Pickles from Rugrats); and real part Jewish personalities from American pop culture (Joan Collins, Gwyneth Paltrow, Amy Irving, Paulette Goddard, Jayne Seymour, Lisa Bonet, Barbara Hershey, Michael Douglas, Michael Landon, Oliver Stone, Sean Penn, Kevin Kline, Douglas Fairbanks, Goldie Hawn,  Dyan Cannon, Harrison Ford, David Duchovny, Noah Wyle, Alicia Silverstone, Peter Sellers, Geraldo, Ben Stiller, Fiorello La Guardia, Barry Goldwater, Dianne Feinstein, Roseanne Arquette, Boris Becker, Jose Bautista, Proust, Brad Ausmus, James McBride, Courtney Love, Xavier Hollander, Matthew Broderick and Sarah Jessica Parker, Carly Simon, and General Wesley Clark to name a handfull). The book is filled with entertaining quips, as well as serious topics on identity and life choices.  The authors also include an essay on the history of half-Jews in the Holocaust and the Nazi laws about who was a Jew.  Also included are holiday cards, some weird holiday menus, poetry, paintings and lots of celebrity photographs. If you're &quot;half Jewish&quot; and you ever felt excluded from both Sunday School and Hebrew School, sit a spell and read this book.opics on identity and life choices.  The authors also include an essay on the history of half-Jews in the Holocaust and the Nazi laws about who was a Jew.  Also included are holiday cards, some weird holiday menus, poetry, paintings and lots of celebrity photographs. If you're &quot;half Jewish&quot; and you ever felt excluded from both Sunday School and Hebrew School, sit a spell and read this book.	2000-09-23
US	49956909	R288Y5H82L56KX	0684823896	177905177	Being Jewish	Books	5	36	36	N	N	How Jews practice Judaism in America today	Now that Lieberman is running for Vice President, everyone, including American Jews, are curious about Jewish religious practice.  Goldman, a  former reporter at The New York Times, a graduate of Harvard Divinity, an  Orthodox pluralist, and a journalism Professor at Columbia, writes on the  current state of American Jewry - a state that is definitely not  homogenous. It is a must read.  It will be to the year 2000 what The Jewish  Catalog was to the 1970's. Goldman began writing the book during a  sabbatical in Jerusalem in 1997, where he met not only great teachers and  had access to great libraries, but he met pulpit rabbis on their individual  sabbaticals.  They gave him great insight into current Jewish practice and  the lives of average American Jews. It is segmented into three sections:  life, year, and day; or Jewish life cycle events; the Jewish  calendar/holidays; and the Jewish day from morning prayers (or lack  thereof) to bedtime. In each section he congently explains jewish rituals  and practices.  Each sub section ends with &quot;The Basics&quot;, which  provides a nice summary on each topic.  What makes this book stand above  all the clutter is the addition of Goldman's personal stories, like that of  his placement of his ill mother in a hospice run by the Catholic diocese,  and his sections titled \\"Variation on a Theme.\\"  These  &quot;Variations&quot; include the anecdotal yet insightful stories of the  person who buys a pork filled hot dog on Passover, but doesn't eat the  leavened hot dog bun; the NJ orthodontist who wears tzitzis even though he  is not observant of other Jewish laws; the family that avoids shellfish on  Shabbat; the community leader who drives on Shabbat, but avoids freeways,  restricting himself to the local roads; and the journalist who observes  Shabbat on Monday evenings and Tuesdays since he must work on weekends.  Are they hypocrites?  No, they are merely reaching for the divine, and that  is what Being Jewish is all about.t.	2000-09-20
US	49956909	R36TNBKDK5OC7M	0767905024	335859866	The Bialy Eaters: The Story of a Bread and a Lost World	Books	4	27	30	N	N	Chewy	Mimi Sheraton was fascinated by French Toast in Paris, Turkish Delight in Istanbul, Danish pastry in Copenhagen, Scotch Salmon in Glasgow, and Parma  Ham in Parma.  So why not hunt for the elusive Bialy in Bialystok?  I am a  Kossar's Bialy (Grand Street at Essex in NYC) afficionado, so I approached  this book with a chip on my shoulder.  But Mimi knows her stuff.  She even  studied the art of bialy making at Kossar's (she includes a Kossar based  recipe in the book).  Mimi Sheraton (formerly with The New York Times) took  off on an adventure to Bialystok (which was once the home of 50,000 Jews),  packing some bialys (bailystoker kuchen) for the trip with her husband,  Dick Falcone.  Her COBD, or Compulsive Obsessive Bialy Disorder, originated  after a 1992 sidetrip from her Conde Nast Traveler assignment on Polish  foods.  After placing an ad seeking stories in the Bialystok Shtimme  Yiddish newspaper, she sorts through the stories, and then visits Israel,  Australia, Argentina, Paris, Lincolnwood, Scottsdale (jalapeno flavored),  and NYC's Lower East Side over seven years, and creates this history  (herstory) of the bialy and the community that is now lost. By the way, did  you know that Bell Bialy of Canarsie Brooklyn ships 96,000 bagels and  bialies to Japan's Hokushin Corp. each month (where they sell for over  $1.10 each)? Or that bialy's should never be sliced like a bagel?  Or that  Jews created a settlement in Bialystok officially in 1558 and were granted  citizenship in 1745. This is a fun read.  Now if someone would just tell me  the difference between those who say kugel and those who say kiegel.	2000-09-20
US	49956909	RS9U479F4O16G	0374272387	927747216	The Talmud and the Internet: A Journey Between Worlds	Books	5	19	24	N	N	Turn it, Turn it, for everything is in it. Talmud or Cyber?	Over 2000 years ago (after 586 BCE), Jewish life in its land was destroyed, and sacrifices were no longer carried out; there were no high  priests.  Instead, the Jews wrote the Talmud, and the Jewish people were  transformed into a dispossessed, portable, evolving, People of the Book.  The Talmud was born out of loss, just as Rosen was born a son of a  Kindertransport survivor.  The Internet, Rosen writes, has made us both  feel dispossessed, for it has exiled us from that which with we are  familiar, yet it has made us more connected than ever -- Connected, just as  a reader of Talmud feels connected to the rabbis and commentators from  generations passed.  Rosen asks, what will we evolve into in the new  internet culture?  Will the synagogue be replaced by computer servers?  As  it is written in Pirke Avot (Sayings of the Fathers), &quot;turn it, turn  it, for everything is in it.&quot;  Were they talking about the Internet or  the Talmud?  Rosen writes, &quot;Not long after my grandmother died, my  computer crashed and I lost the journal I had kept of her dying.&quot;  But  do the deaths of people or hard drives mean that lives or data are actually  lost?  What can be recovered?  Is there a Norton Utilities Unerase utility  for your memories of your loved ones?  How do you TOGGLE between the  Internet of modern technology and the demands and pulls of The Talmud of  religious order.  (or how does one create a marriage between a culture  editor and a rabbi?)  Just as he compares the choices and legacies of  Josephus and Yochanan ben Zakkai, Rosen compares the fortunate life of his  American-born, pragmatic grandmother, with baked apple skin, who lived to  be nearly 95, craving pastrami before her throat surgery in a modern  hospital, to the life of his European-born grandmother who was shot and  murdered by Nazis.  The &quot;Talmud and the Internet&quot; explores the  contradictions of Rosen's inheritance (religious and pragmatic).  Do we  create our religion or only inherit it? Rosen chronicles the remarkable  parallels between a page of Talmud and the home page of a Web site, with  hyperlinks across the generations and worlds. For example, did you know  that the word for Talmud pages is webbings?  Or that the Talmud is compared  to the Sea (as in surfing)? Didn't a rabbi once write that everything is in  the Talmud, and don't people believe that the whole world is in the  Internet also?  Rosen charts the territory between doubt and belief,  tragedy and prosperity, the world of the living and the world of the dead.nly inherit it? Rosen chronicles the remarkable  parallels between a page of Talmud and the home page of a Web site, with  hyperlinks across the generations and worlds. For example, did you know  that the word for Talmud pages is webbings?  Or that the Talmud is compared  to the Sea (as in surfing)? Didn't a rabbi once write that everything is in  the Talmud, and don't people believe that the whole world is in the  Internet also?  Rosen charts the territory between doubt and belief,  tragedy and prosperity, the world of the living and the world of the dead.	2000-09-20
US	49956909	R2EWEYR17XBBJY	0786883006	756632693	The Daily Soup Cookbook	Books	4	85	90	N	N	Soup is good food, and creative soup is a meal	I craved Daily Soup concoctions in NYC, although they were pricey.  Alas, this Summer, The Daily Soup closed its retail locations and sold its name  to another company.  But at least we are left with their bible, the book of  soup recipes.  Definitely a keepsake.  Some say there are four basic soup  categories: broth, clear, pureed, and thick.  The Daily Soup broke these  rules of combined the categories.  Therefore, the books chapters are  grouped into vegetable, corn, tomato, rice, bean, chili, lentil/pea,  cheese, and coconut to name a few.  The book includes recipes and stories,  as well as recommendations of films and music to watch and listen to as  your cook and eat.  The standouts SOUPS are; a diary free, lowfat Borscht,  Jamaican Pumpkin, Roasted Eggplant Parmesan, Yucatan Chicken Lime, Wild  Mushroom barley, Chicken Matzoh Ball (sinker balls), Mexican Tortilla soup,  Mexican Posole, Poblano corn chowder, New Zealnd Sweet Potato chowder,  Cuban black bean, Chili Con Carne, Cincinnati Chili (ala skyline), 4 bean  veg chili, indian black chili, Moroccan lamb stew, indian yellow split pea  soup, senegalese with peanut soup, veg gumbo, and watermelon with chicken.  My faves are Mulligatawny, Mulligatawny with lentils, and Tuscan multibean.  The book also includes their Periodic Table of Soup Types, and nine  recipes for veg, chicken, and fish based soup stocks	2000-09-20
US	49956909	RNJIS6YHO7AJF	043910839X	80503176	Gershon's Monster: A Story for the Jewish New Year	Books	5	39	39	N	N	False Repentence Creates a Monster of a Prob for the Family	For adults as well as Ages 4-8.  Every Rosh Hashana, in Jewish communities around the Earth, some Jews symbolically dispose of their sins by emptying  their pockets of bread crumbs into streams, rivers, or seas.  Some do this  symbolically, others with meaning, but a few forget Isaiah's admonition  against choosing an improper Fast.  The process is known as tashlikh.  Eric  Kimmel, a  prolific Jewish children's book author, presents this book for  the High Holidays based on a Hasidic tale about tashlikh and repentance.  The book is based on a Hasidic tale attriuted to the Ba'al Shem Tov  (BeSHT).  It also incorporates the writings of Rabbi Maimonide's 12th  Century &quot;Laws of Repentance (Chapter 2)&quot;, and Rabbi Benay Lappe's  20th Century \\"Six Steps for Doing Teshuva.\\" The back page includes the  steps needed for real repentance.  Now let's get to the book and its  sublime watercolor pictures.  Gershon the Baker and his noble wife Fayge  live in Constantsa on the Black Sea.  Is (Constant)sa a town where change  does not occur?  Gershon the Baker is uncaring and self-absorbed; he sweeps  his flaws into his cellar each Friday, but never makes amends or  apologizes.  Gershon cares nothing about other people's feelings.  He never  apologizes; he barges into rooms; he knocks things over; he never says,  \\"Thank You.\\"  At Rosh Hashana, he places all his sins and flaws, that hang  on you like fringes with faces, from the cellar into a sack and take them  down to the Black Sea. There in the Sea, he deposits them and forgets them.  But do sins just disappear if true repentance is missing?  When Gershon  travels to Kuty to see a famed rabbi in order to plead for a child, he is  oblivious to the rabbi's admonishments that Gershon is undeserving and  uncaring.  The wonder rabbi relents, for the good of Gershon's wife, and  Fayge gives birth to twins within a year.  But what about Gershon's ways?  They influence the family, the kids, the community, and the Black Sea,  until one day, they rise up like a sea monster as the twins are playing on  the beach.  Can Gershon the Baker change?  Will repentance be true?  Will  the twins be saved?  Is there a way to lessen the final decree?  Read and  find out.ntil one day, they rise up like a sea monster as the twins are playing on  the beach.  Can Gershon the Baker change?  Will repentance be true?   Will  the twins be saved?  Is there a way to lessen the final decree?  Read and  find out.	2000-09-09
US	49956909	R1OCMFF95ZLC3C	0805064036	119696789	Pedro and Me: Friendship, Loss, and What I Learned	Books	5	16	17	N	N	Truly Reality TV where u win Friendships and not $1 Million	In this Summer of Reality TV and opportunities to win $1 million by screwing over or excluding your island or room-mates, Judd Winik, a cartoonist, and member of the third season of MTV's The Real World,  presents us with the true story of living on a reality TV show for six  months, where the prize was not $1 million and a Hollywood contract, but a  lifelong lesson in friendship, courage, and love.  Written in cartoon, or  graphic novel, form, this is one of the few cartoon books that will choke  you up. (not even Art Speigelman's Maus did it as well).  Judd takes us  behind the scenes of life in the Real World house, and imparts to us what  he learned about friendship and striving to be a mensch in one's life.  Behind the scenes, Judd tells us about the night sweats, the pneumonia,  Pedro's anxieties, and Judd's growing fondness for his housemate (now  fiance), Pam.  The reader will also learn more about the life and death of  Pedro Zamora.  The first four chapters cover Pedro's life before his  invitation to join the Real World 3 cast.  Born on a leap day in a leap  year in Cuba, anointed as a Grande Cabeza, Pedro grew up to be a scholar,  track team captain, friend, brother and son.  Zamora faced the realization  that he was HIV Positive when he was only 17.  Judd's book graphically  conveys how Pedro, a popular student, faced his school and announced that  he was living with the virus.  With 25% of all new AIDS cases occurring  among American teens, the book serves as an additional wake up call to  readers and educators about why these issues must be confronted and  discussed openly.  As with Matthew Shephard, many Americans believe that  Pedro Zamora gave more by dying than by living.  This is far from the  truth, and readers can get confirmation of this by reading this book....	2000-09-02
US	49956909	RC4Y475Q6SYC7	039597707X	679979037	3 Bowls: Vegetarian Recipes from an American Zen Buddhist Monastery	Books	4	101	105	N	N	Tasty for the palate and the spirit.  But eating in silence?	I was drawn to this book by its cover, so sometimes it is possible to tell  a book by its cover.  Seppo Ed Farrey is the head chef for the Dai Basatsu  Zendo in Livingston Manor, NY, a catskills retreat 20 miles from the  smallest town.  It is a Rinzai Zen monastery led by Eido T Shimano Roshi.  As the abbott, he teaches that cooking can be a practice of spirituality,  since it involves beauty, economy of movement, lack of waste, and  punctuality.  The co-author cooks for nearly two dozen monks and  laypeoplen, and up to 70 visitors.  Meals are punctual, 7:15 AM and 1 PM.  Meals are served and eaten in silence.  Each diner gets three bowls and a  set of chopsticks (Did you ever try to eat oatmeal with chopsticks?)  The  large bowl contains the main dish, the middle bowl contains a stew or  curry, and the small bowl will contain a vegetable or salad (not a lettuce  and tomato salad though).  This book is filled with inspiring, simple,  nutritious recipes, as well as a few pages dedicated to Zen terms and  ingredient descriptions, and a page of 3 mail order sources for a few  ingredients (this should have been expanded!)  The book is also filled with  sidebars and explanations on Zen practice: such as the Zen way to crack a  hard boiled egg, sitting sesshin, jikijitsu, 10 precepts of buddhism,  kinhin (walking meditation), dokusan (the interview with the roshi), doing  zazen, and meal chants.  The recipes include 10 breakfast dishes, like  cream of quinoa, oatmeal pancakes, and 5 grain porridge.  There are 10 rice  dishes like spinach rice with tamari and mirin, shitaki rice, and a spicy  rice bake with collard greens, black eyed peas and sweet potato.  There are  8 noodle dishes like szechuan green beans and soba, or a classic marinara  sauce that uses applesauce, onions, and fennel.  There are 14  grain/bean/tofu stew and curry dishes for the second bowl, including a  quinoa veggie stew, sweet potato burritos, a sunflower based stuffing, and  a mushroom quinoa nut loaf.  The 13 veggie dishes include asparagus with  lime and tamari; kale with tofu; a non dairy mashed potato that uses pureed  tofu, beets with hijiki, and tahini butternut squash.  The 17 salads and  dressings include beet raiti, a faux chicken salad that uses tempeh and  lemon juice; and a red grape salad dressing.  Of the eleven soups only four  are miso (thankfully).  As for desserts, as mentioned above, there are  muffins, baked goods, spreads, pates, pestos, and sauces including  cheesecake and rice pudding (yes, Zen meditators can let loose with pudding  and cake).loaf.  The 13 veggie dishes include asparagus with  lime and tamari; kale with tofu; a non dairy mashed potato that uses pureed  tofu, beets with hijiki, and tahini butternut squash.  The 17 salads and  dressings include beet raiti, a faux chicken salad that uses tempeh and  lemon juice; and a red grape salad dressing.  Of the eleven soups only four  are miso (thankfully).  As for desserts, as mentioned above, there are  muffins, baked goods, spreads, pates, pestos, and sauces including  cheesecake and rice pudding (yes, Zen meditators can let loose with pudding  and cake).	2000-08-27
US	49956909	R1MIBTWTG2SDH	9625932682	105421070	The Food of Israel: Authentic Recipes from the Land of Milk and Honey (Food of the World Cookbooks)	Books	4	32	34	N	N	Not just Milk and Honey	The land of Israel is not only a land of Milk and Honey, but a land of  seven main ingredients: olives, figs, dates, pomegranates, grapes, barley  and bulgur wheat.  The author, Ansky, is Jerusalem-born and is the food  writer for Israel's prestigious MA'ARIV newspaper.  The book opens with  thirty pages of essays on the nature of Israel cuisine, and is followed by  three pages of descriptions of ingredients.  Each recipe is faced by an  alluring, sensuous picture of the dish.  Recipes include five eggplant  salads, hummus, falafel, fatoush, shakshouka, Jerusalem kugel, patira,  pastelicos, Etrog jam, Jerusalem Hamin, kibbeh, and Mussakhan (chicken with  sumach and onions).  Soups include a version of matzo ball, a kibbeh soup  with beets and turnips, and lentil soup.  Recipes for the Yemenite breads  of malauach and Jachnun are included, in addition to recipes for lachma,  and chickpeas with squid (well, maybe it isn't a kosher cookbook).  Three  exceptional recipes are Hraymi (a garlic halibut) which is the gefilte fish  of the Sephardim; Leek Patties and Meat Cutlets in a lemon sauces; and Lamb  Kebabs.  Some recipes are from Israel's most famous restaurants and chefs.	2000-08-20
US	49956909	R26XBXPGOE2ZZ7	0609604996	466864936	God at the Edge: Searching for the Divine in Uncomfortable and Unexpected Places	Books	4	14	15	N	N	Finding god in messy places without a list of 5 or 7 steps	There are many alternate paths to god, and god is present in the darkness as well as the light.  Many people find god in pretty parks, humble houses  of worship, massive mountaintops, and serene meadows.  Others find  spirituality in foxholes, in the muck and mire, in degradation, or in  prison.  In the bible, Avraham Avinu smashed the idols in his father's  retail idol outlet.  Rabbi Goldstein did not smash an idol, he just smashed  a urinal in a fit of mortal rage and anger at a Manhattan bar two weeks  prior to graduating college.  He was promptly arrrested, and he spent a  night in the Manhattan's Tombs Prison with accused murderers and  transvestite prostitutes.  But didn't Joseph spend time in jail, as did  Shneur Zalman?  Didn't Jonah have to go down to Jaffa, down to the hold of  the ship, and down into a fish to turn around?  These events led to  spiritual awakenings and eventual leadership.  A restless Rabbi Goldstein,  33, is seeking authenticity, meaning, wholeness, and rest.  He is a police  chaplain and DEA advisor, and a founding rabbi of the New Shul which met at  HUC-JIR in Greenwich Village/Manhattan (now meets at Judson on Wash Sq).  He is also a specialist in the Fear of God, as author of \\"Forests in the  Night. Fear of God in Early Hasidic Thought.\\"  His book is part travelogue  and part spiritual search.  For example, on a trip to Nepal and Katmandu,  he and his father attend a weekly animal sacrifice in Dakshinkali.  As a  goat's head is severed, and his father hugs him, Niles is reminded of the  Akedah.  When discussing the fine line between the spiritual and  sacrilegious, he is reminded of Nadav and Avihu and the Golem of Prague.  His trip `into the wilderness' of Alaska and meeting with a hungry grizzly  bear brings on thoughts of the Rambam's discourse on fear and the awareness  of one's meagerness in comparison to god.  He has the ability to find God  while dog-sledding in the Arctic Circle, while counseling police officers  in the Bronx, getting dumped by a young girlfriend in Princeton, and while  on additional excursions in Asia, Alaska, Boston, Africa, and the wilds of  New Hampshire.  Finding god isnt easy, isn't succinct and it doesnt happen  in five steps, but Goldstein shows how a prepared mind can find  spirituality in some of the grossest or most fearsome places.ronx, getting dumped by a young girlfriend in Princeton, and while  on additional excursions in Asia, Alaska, Boston, Africa, and the wilds of  New Hampshire.  Finding god isnt easy, isn't succinct and it doesnt happen  in five steps, but Goldstein shows how a prepared mind can find  spirituality in some of the grossest or most fearsome places.	2000-08-20
US	49956909	R2WT2MY0Q9C2F8	0525463380	589133305	VINI-DER-PU, A Yiddish Version of Winnie-the-Pooh (Yiddish Edition)	Books	3	18	18	N	N	Cute	This is in TRANSLITERATION.  Now you can add Yiddish to the list of 31 languages in which Pooh appears.  Read about Vini-der-Pooh, Iya (eeyore),  Khazerl (Piglet), and Kristofer Robin, as they munch on Varshaver Tort /  Warsaw Cake (Cottleston Pie), and play near Khazerls Hoyz, Kangus Hoyz,  Binenboym, Farfleytst Plats, Pu Bers Hoyz, and Hundert akordiker Wald.  The  book starts with a transliteration pronunciation page, but you really need  to know Yiddish to proceed.  Ten chapters follow.  Each chapter begins with  just a paragraph in Yiddish/Hebrew characters.  This is followed by the  story in Yiddish transliteration in English characters and Ernest Shepard's  original illustrations.  I was disappointed that there is no English  translation, but one can easily just buy the English version also. The easy  stuff is \\"Kristofer Robin hot gornisht gezogt, nor di oygn zenen im alts  greser gevorn un des ponem alts Rozever\\"  or when Vini der Pu says \\"Gut  Morgn, and Kristofer Robin replies \\"Gut-yor, Vini dur Pu\\"  But when Vini  der Pu is a narisher alter Ber, and visits Kinigls (rabbit) and is a frayer  and ferklempt and everyone must try to pull him out of the hole, the  Yiddish is a tad harder.  For example, \\"hot er ongekhapt Puen far di  federshte lapes un kinigl hot ongekhapt Kristofer, un Kinigls, un Kinigls  ale khaveyrim, un kroyvim hobn ongekhapt Kiniglem, un ale tsuzamen hobn zey  getsoygn...\\"  Translated by Leonard Wolf of NYU (Adjunct) and SFSU  (Emeritus).	2000-08-20
US	49956909	R1UWR0F8L6IVJW	0853033900	503946679	From Thessaloniki to Auschwitz and Back: Memories of a Survivor from Thessaloniki	Books	4	11	12	N	N	A rarely heard story of a vanished community	In 1912, when the Ottoman city of Thessaloniki was turned over to Greece, Jews outnumbered Greeks, Muslims, Bulgarians and other residents.  In 1917,  fire destroyed much of the Jewish center of town.  But by 1926, when the  author was born, the city a growing Greek metropolis.  Today, it has 1  million residents, but only 2,000 Jews.  In 1939, the population of Jews  living in the city of Salonika had dropped from about 90,000 to 56,000. In  less than 12 weeks, all but 500 Jews were deported to death camps.  By the  end of August, 1943, the 500 Jews left owed their lives to the fact that  they had kept their Spanish citizenship.  Dieter Wisliceny, Eichmann's  deputy in Greece, claimed that 60 to 65,000 Greek Jews were brought to  Auschwitz. By September of 1944 only 2,500 of these were still alive and  many more died before 1945, when they were marched to other camps. By far  the largest proportion of those who were transported and who died in the  camps were from Thessaloniki (Salonika).  Erika Kounio-Amariglio, the  daughter of an Austrian-Jewish mother and a Salonikan father, owed her  survival in part to her knowledge of German.  Her father owned a  photography business in the city. Her mother had fought hard to be accepted  and seems to have succeeded in overcoming the family's initial distrust of  her as a foreigner. Having given up her medical studies at Leipzig  University to follow her husband to Salonika, her mother maintained a close  connection with her Austrian jewish family and sent her children back to  spend part of each summer with her parents in Karlsbad. In 1938, when the  Germans occupied Sudetenland, Erika's maternal grandparents moved to  Salonika.  This is a story of the vanished world of the Sephardic community  of Salonika.  This is the author's history of the town and the stories of  the ghosts of those residents who were killed killed at Auschwitz, and how  slowly over time, people gradually reacquire those average human desires  after tragedy.agedy.	2000-08-09
US	49956909	R1D0YVJU45W14Z	0684859440	204140347	Jew Vs Jew: The Struggle For The Soul Of American Jewry	Books	4	41	50	N	N	Timely observations in time for CampDavid and Lieberman	I started to read this book the day after an Orthodox neighbor of mine said to me that the vandalization of the Liberal (HUC) yeshiva in Jerusalem  was probably the work of Reform Jews seeking sympathy.  I completed this  book the day the major media organizations focused on Gore's pick for a VP  candidate, Joseph Lieberman, as an Orthodox Jew.  How ironic that a country  can rally behind him as a candidate, but in a synagogue, his policies might  cause strife.  Freedman, a former reporter at the NYT and a journalism  Professor at Columbia, was attending his local synagogue and saw a conflict  among its members.  He observed very PUBLIC disagreements among various  Jewish denominations, among types of Diaspora Zionists, among adherents to  the various levels of observance and Jewish parentage.  These OBSERVATIONS  led to this book on how the Jewish community in America has become  fragmented since 1960.  At a time when America's 6 million Jews should feel  more secure and cohesive than ever, a CIVIL (civil as in calm most of the  time) WAR is tearing the community participants apart (well at least Jewish  leaders, the rank and file is probably not as concerned with the issues).  Congregations, neighborhoods, even families are taking sides in battles  about Jewish identity and Jewish authenticity.  The conflict pits  fundamentalist against secularist, denomination against denomination, even  egalitarian, and liberal against conservative within each branch of Jewry.  Even the Orthodox are fragmented by levels of authenticity and belief.  Has  American Jewry terminally become unstitched in the last forty years?  Was  it actually ever cohesive?  The flash-points in the skirmishes range from  standards for conversions (an intermarriage rate of 52%) to the role of  women in rituals, from the peace process in Israel to the sexual climate at  Yale University's dormitories.  Israel once was a unifier of Jews, now it  divides them.  Anti-Semitism is no longer a threat that unifies that shtetl  minded community.  Why did non-Orthodox Jews trying to stop an Orthodox  congregation from building a synagogue in suburban Beachwood, Ohio?  (or in  the Hamptons?)  Why did a Jewish man (Harry Shapiro) try to blow up a  liberal Florida synagogue where Shimon Peres was speaking?  What happened  when a group of Jewish students at Yale refused to move into a mixed sex  dormitory as required by the university?  What happened when a Los Angeles  synagogue leader tried to use more gender neutral language at her synagogue  by adding the names of the matriarchs to the Amidah (Sarah, Rachel, Rebecca  and Leah)? Freedman reports on these skirmishes as a journalist, not as a  pundit.unifies that shtetl  minded community.  Why did non-Orthodox Jews trying to stop an Orthodox  congregation from building a synagogue in suburban Beachwood, Ohio?  (or in  the Hamptons?)  Why did a Jewish man (Harry Shapiro) try to blow up a  liberal Florida synagogue where Shimon Peres was speaking?  What happened  when a group of Jewish students at Yale refused to move into a mixed sex  dormitory as required by the university?  What happened when a Los Angeles  synagogue leader tried to use more gender neutral language at her synagogue  by adding the names of the matriarchs to the Amidah (Sarah, Rachel, Rebecca  and Leah)? Freedman reports on these skirmishes as a journalist, not as a  pundit.	2000-08-09
US	49956909	R2WJJ0CQPAAZJD	0684867745	321871506	In Praise of Public Life	Books	4	7	8	N	N	A call to public service in the face of attackdog journalism	In 1996, only 49% of the eligible voters cast a vote in the Federal contests.  Is it because of cynism and disinterest?  In 1998, the  Congressional elections garnered a 36.1% voter turnout.  Lieberman would  like to see that number increase, and supports election-day registrations  at polling sites.  Few desire to go into public service anymore when you  can make gobs of dollars on the internet.  Lieberman would like to see the  best and brightest enter public service.  He would also like to see a curb  in violence and sexism in the products of the entertainment industry.  This  book is a quick read  and the Senator's clarion call to public service.  Lieberman is a man that the New Republic says has an independent mind and  observes tradition.  The Weekly Standard said he would be a good VP  candidate.  Senator Lieberman got the public service bug like many others,  after hearing John F Kennedy's inaugural speech.  (Of course, had the media  been as intrusive in JFK's life as it has been in current office holders,  JFK would be no hero to Lieberman). Lieberman wants cynicism banished from  American politics.  Lieberman begins by complaining that today's public  servant &quot;must face questions not only about how he is doing his job  but how he is living his life--and how he has lived his life.&quot;  &quot;This poisonous atmosphere of attack-dog journalism has created an  environment in which young people don't want to enter public life,&quot;  writes Lieberman. He asks his Capitol Hill interns if they want to run for  public office, and they respond that they do not want to live through the  media's intrusive spotlight or raise the millions of dollars needed to  mount a campaign.  They don't want to give the time commitment to public  office at the expense of having a family life.  Lieberman offers his own  career as a tonic, describing the challenges and joys of working his way  through the party ranks and achieving his dream of becoming a U.S. Senator.  Three years after graduating from Yale Law, he became a State Senator.  Later he was an Attorney General; and then he defeated Senator Lowell  Weicker by less than 1% of the Connecticut vote in 1988.  In 1994, he  received 67% of the vote.  Lieberman became well known to the US on  September 3, 1998, when he stood in the Senate chamber and described  President Clinton's behavior in the Lewinsky scandal as immoral and  disgraceful.  Lieberman explains his actions in the book.  (Friends for  over 30 years, Clinton had worked on Lieberman's campaign for Connecticut  state Senate back in 1970.)  I recommend that the reader just skim the  first six chapters (including a mention of his 1981 divorce), and delve  into the meatier back chapters, in which Lieberman discusses what the life  of a Senator entails - two residences, travel, the power of special  interests and constituents, the legislative process (patience and  persistence), and the power of personal connections (the political junket  is a time to get to know your Congressional colleagues and transact the  true business of committees).years after graduating from Yale Law, he became a State Senator.   Later he was an Attorney General; and then he defeated Senator Lowell  Weicker by less than 1% of the Connecticut vote in 1988.  In 1994, he  received 67% of the vote.  Lieberman became well known to the US on  September 3, 1998, when he stood in the Senate chamber and described  President Clinton's behavior in the Lewinsky scandal as immoral and  disgraceful.  Lieberman explains his actions in the book.  (Friends for  over 30 years, Clinton had worked on Lieberman's campaign for Connecticut  state Senate back in 1970.)  I recommend that the reader just skim the  first six chapters (including a mention of his 1981 divorce), and delve  into the meatier back chapters, in which Lieberman discusses what the life  of a Senator entails - two residences, travel, the power of special  interests and constituents, the legislative process (patience and  persistence), and the power of personal connections (the political junket  is a time to get to know your Congressional colleagues and transact the  true business of committees).	2000-08-08
US	49956909	R2N400L99KFLI5	0316290653	15550940	Shabbat Shalom: Recipes and Menus for the Sabbath	Books	4	9	9	N	N	New recipes for the day of rest	Susan Friedland is a cookbook editor at HarperCollins, so she knows a tad about recipe books and a lot about frying onions.  She is also the author of The Passover Table. With humor, Friedland updates the Shabbat dinner  menu from just brisket, matza balls, and roast chicken (which are  included), and adds innovations like Spinach Soup; Sorrel Stuffed eggs; or  Fish Cocktail-UNCLE Louie, which is a kosher version of Crab Louis;  Chickpeas with Braised Codfish; Pears Poached in Red Wine; Duck in  pomegranate and walnuts; and Vegetarian Cholents. I especially liked the  Chicken and Macaroni dish from Brooklyn's Aleppo / Halab / Syrian-Jewish  community, or better yet, the fattoush shabbat salad (cucumbers, garlic,  mint, olive oil, and scallions); and the pot roast braised in vinegar. Oh,  and did I mention that Freidland also includes a recipe for Gundi, the  Iranian Jewish shabbat meatball soup.	2000-07-31
US	49956909	R3QGNDWBFKMBNX	0743200519	106918757	My Love Affair with America: The Cautionary Tale of a Cheerful Conservative	Books	4	12	16	N	N	Hurray for America, the haven for immigrants &amp; last gr8 hope	The book opens with a rendition of American the Beautiful.  Norman Podhoretz, Commentary Mag bigwig and Dean of America's neo Conservatives recollects his life and fight against Marxists and the ACLU.  Born in  Brownsville, the son of Jewish immigrants (Julius/Joel and Helen/Henya),  Norman (Naphtali) attended public schools and sang Catholic hymns taught by  Irish spinsters.  He fills this ode to America with fabulous stories and  anecdotes, as he recounts his youth and Liberalism and maturation as a  Conservative.  Along the way he continues his ode to those peddlers who  helped create the America we know today.  The book is a ringing Bell that  counters what William F Buckley refers to as the keening sound of  complaints against the USA.  Podhoretz spins good yarns.  I enjoyed his  story about his graduation from Columbia, and receipt of a Fellowship to  &quot;Oxbridge.&quot;  The other recipient turned out to be the son of the  woman from Norman's mother's village.  She and his his mother had shared  the trip from Europe to Ellis Island and had lost touch over the decades.  Another great story was a recollection of Daniel Bell poking fun at his  future brother-in-law Alfred Kazin.  Kazin, writing &quot;On Native  Ground&quot;, spoke of OUR forests.  Bell found it weird to refer to OUR  forests, as if urban working class Jews from NYC were Americans.  Or when  famed Professor of Philosophy Sidney Morgenbesser, a lapsed rabbi, found it  bizarre that he was teaching undergrads about Saint Augustine.  I was  shocked by these quaint attitudes til I was even more shocked that thirty  years later, Podhoretz recounts, Gore Vidal still writes about Jews as  being not &quot;us&quot; or being dual loyalists.  Part 4 of the book,  titled &quot;Dayyenu American-style,&quot; recounts Podhoretz's points of  gratitude and his love of country.  I suggest that the diligent reader pair  this book with Dershowitz's &quot;Chutzpah.&quot;	2000-07-26
US	49956909	RHBSF2OXIGMO2	1580230555	57096031	Mystery Midrash: An Anthology of Jewish Mystery & Detective Fiction	Books	5	14	15	N	N	I know about a Yiddishe Kop, but a Yiddishe Cop?	A Yiddishe Kop, I know... but a Yiddishe Cop? Will dvar mysteries replace dvar torahs on Shabbat morn?  Will parents stop hoping their child will be a doctor or a lawyer, and hope for a Jewish cop or detective?  What is  midrash? Isn't it a deep investigation of the text in order to learn more  about it, and piece things together, to compare various texts and clues?  Isn't that what a P.I. (Private Investigator) does, too? In this book are  original stories by notable mystery writers. Batya contributes  &quot;Kaddish&quot;, a mystery about a secular Jew who must console a dead  rabbi's family by helping them focus on the rabbi's goodness and not the  alleged, scandalous events surrounding his death. In &quot;Bread of  Affliction&quot; by Michael Kahn (author of the Rachel Gold series, Sheer  Gall, Grave Designs), Chicago Attorney Rachel Gold must use her knowledge  of Pesach to solve a mystery surrounding a contested will. Richard Fliegel,  creator of the Jewish detective, Shelly Lowenkopf (&quot;A Minyan for the  Dead&quot;), writes in &quot;A Final Midrash&quot; about four rabbi's who  help a detective solve a murder that one of them has committed. If I had a  sack of cash, I would certainly option the film rights for &quot;A Final  Midrash&quot;!  For not only is it an interesting short mystery, but it is  a well crafted allusion to the 3 rabbis who entered Pardes with Rabbi  Akiva, as well as the four ways to create a drash, namely Pshat, Sot,  Drash, and Mysticism. Other contributors include: Toni Brill, Howard Engel,  Stuart Kaminsky, Faye Kellerman, Ronald Levitsky, Ellen Rawlings, Shelly  Singer, Bob Sloan, Janice Steinberg, and James Yaffe. I was not used to  reading mysteries prior to reading this book, but I think this anthology  has sparked that &quot;Pintelye Mystery&quot;.	2000-05-05
US	49956909	R94HMH4KK3RJI	0385498799	223812993	Bee Season: A Novel	Books	5	48	64	N	N	4 men entered a garden..,a timely novel of Jewish familylife	From the moment I picked up this novel, I kept thinking &quot;four men entered the garden...&quot;  Students of Kabbalah will understand.  Jewish book reading groups should place this book on the list; it will be a must read. Oberlin grad, and first time Brooklyn novelist, Myla Goldberg, mixes  Jewish family dynamics, adolescence, the itchy nervous stress of a national  spelling bee, Reconstructionist synagogue life, mysticism, and the writings  of Rabbi Avraham Abulafia, the Kabbalist, into a witty, extraordinary, and  compelling story about nine year old Eliza Naumann's quest for family  status. A successful and driven couple, Saul and Miriam, wonder why Eliza,  an average, quiet nine year old, is not excelling in school like her older  brother Aaron.  Aaron is the vessel, but then again, weren't the vessels at  creation shattered?  Will Eliza be tracked into the &quot;dummies&quot;  classes forever? Is she really their daughter if she isn't brilliant? But  then Eliza sweeps her school, district, and state spelling bees. Saul, a  synagogue cantor and self-taught student of Jewish mysticism, who ignored  Eliza up to this point, now invests his time into coaching her. He focuses  on Eliza at the expense of his formerly annointed prodigal son, Aaron. Now  only Eliza is allowed into Saul's inner sanctum, or garden, of his study.  Now Aaron loses faith. Aaron, who is a searcher for a repeat epiphany, no  longer finds joy with ELiza in playing the synagogue game to see who will  sit down first during the silent Amidah prayers. Then he meets a man in a  park. Oh, I can tell no more; if I only had Eliza and Miriam's powers of  concentration.	2000-05-02
US	49956909	R20KK9MWNDW3NA	0231111479	353661771	No Room of Their Own	Books	4	3	3	N	N	An eye opening analysis of Israeli female authored fiction	An Associate Professor of Hebrew and Judaic Studies at NYU, Feldman has written an eye-opening comparative analysis that will cause you to never read a book authored by a woman the same way again. I am not used to reading literary or gender theory, but this provided an excellent  introduction, as well as providing a synopsis of the feminist works of  Virginia Woolf and Simone Beauvoir. As Feldman's book taught me, you rarely  saw Israeli women authors prior to 1980. It was the time of social realism  literature, stories of &quot;WE&quot; the nation builders. But in 1997,  four of Israel's best seller's were authored by religious women. Prior to  the Yom Kippur War, Israeli women, like Leah Goldberg, wrote poetry; and  men wrote fiction. For all the lip service that was paid to the new Hebrew  socialist culture of the pioneers and the kibbutz, much of it was lip  service when it came to gender roles. But since 1980, women have published  historical fiction, biography, and mystery (Batya Gur) successfully in  Israel. Many have them have projected contemporary concerns over the role  of women in Israeli society onto their heroines from the pre-State period.  Feldman focuses on five women authors: Amalia Kahana Carmon (Chapter 3),  Shulamith Hareven (Chapter 5 and 6.3), Netiva Ben Yehuda (chapter 7), Ruth  Almog (Chapter 8), and Shulamit Lapid (Chapter 1). I was captivated by the  analysis of Lapid's &quot;GEI ONI&quot;, a fictional story about the  founding of Rosh Pinna (its original name was a Hebrew takeoff on the name  of the Arab village). Was it a best seller in Israel because it dared to  write about a fictional pioneering Woman of the first Aliyah? (Why do we  only hear about the male pioneers?) Long story, short... Feldman shows the  richness and subtleties of Israeli women's fiction as she explores the  themes of gender and nation, as well as the (non)representation of the  &quot;New Hebrew Woman&quot; in the works of these five authors who are the  &quot;foremothers&quot; of the contemporary boom in Israeli Women's  fiction.emothers&quot; of the contemporary boom in Israeli Women's  fiction.	2000-04-27
US	49956909	RKQ9AE8KXYHEC	0385488807	733855103	The Three Stooges: An Illustrated History, from Amalgamated Morons to American Icons	Books	4	3	5	N	N	An interesting intro to Stooge history	Moe, Curly, and Shemp Howard were born Moses (1897), Jerome (1903), and Samuel (1895) Horwitz -- and were believed for many years to be the three least accomplished sons of their Litvak parents. (Irving and Benjamin, the older brothers sold insurance, and at least, that was a real job, no?)  Their parents were second cousins (Jennie and Solomon Gorovitz) which is  maybe why the stooges were stooges. Did you know that Moe was a  Shakespearean actor? Obviously, Larry Fine (Feinberg), a Philadelphian, was  not a Howard brother, but a violinist with an injured arm. He joined the  vaudeville act in 1925. This book details with an okay level of accuracy (a  good intro), the 190 films by Moe, Larry, Curly, Shemp, Joe Besser and Joe  DeRita made from 1934 to 1958, (from Woman Haters in 1934 to Sappy  Bullfighters in 1958) with annotations on the number of slaps, eye-pokes,  conking heads, pies thrown, etcetra in each. Nyuk Nyuk Nyuk. Did you know  that the original &quot;Men in Black&quot; was a 1934 Stooges film with the  memorable line of &quot;Calling Dr. Howard, Dr. Fine, Dr. Howard.&quot;	2000-04-27
US	49956909	R1YDXPKR515U6K	0374119740	568984342	Catfish and Mandala: A Two-Wheeled Voyage Through the Landscape and Memory of Vietnam	Books	5	71	74	N	N	The must read for the 25th Anniv of the Fall of Saigon	The 25th anniversary of the Fall of Saigon was approaching, as was a conference at NYC's Asia Society on Vietnamese American authors, so I purchased this book for a friend.  But before I gave the book away, I started to read the preface.  And I was as hooked as a net caught in a  propeller.  I gorged myself on this book's language.  It was so poetic, I  wanted to deconstruct the sentences to see how Pham built them.  How this  book did not win a National Book Award I can not fathom.  (although it was  honored with the Kiriyama Pacific Rim Book Prize).  As was said in the  reviews above and below, Pham's book is an adventure book as worthy as any  Outside Magazine story, a memoir, and an extended essay on cultural  identity, immigration, guilt, and family dynamics.  The metaphor filled,  flowing chapters alternate between his current bike trip, the immigrant  experience, and his family's flight from Vietnam two decades ago.  The book  is honest, humorous (as in when he relates his Dilbert-like experiences  working as an aerospace engineer in California, or when his brother's  boyfriend offers him a supermarket of armaments for road biking  protection), psychologically complex (the duty of the first son, the guilt  over a suicide), frightening (when relating the experiences of his father  in a post-War Vietnamese prison, their escape as boat-people, finding  lodging at the home of what may be an escaped mental patient), gutsy  (finding a bike path from Narita Airport), sensual, exhilarating, sad,  profound, and subtle (can you save every beggar, can you marry every poor  Vietnamese woman).  Simply a must read.	2000-04-25
US	49956909	R9P9QN2SIMS21	0814328008	647904037	The Chocolate Deal: A Novel	Books	4	4	4	N	N	An excellent translation of a classic Hebrew novel	Originally published in Hebrew in 1968, after the Eichmann trial.  Based somewhat on the author's experiences as a Palestinian (British mandate) Jew who worked in Europe with survivors after WWII. Haim Gouri, a famous  Palmach war poet from the 1948 Israeli War of Independence, is a poster  child of current secular Israeli Zionism.  The novel focuses on two  Holocaust survivors, Rubi Krauss and Mordi Neumann, in a post War European  city akin to Vienna Austria.  One survivor is broken from his experiences,  the other maintains his taste for life, success, blackmail and chocolate.	2000-04-21
US	49956909	R27VWPJAVA8G1U	0312218044	838862728	A Rumor About the Jews: Reflections on Antisemitism and "The Protocols of the Learned Elders of Zion"	Books	5	24	27	N	N	the best history of the Protocols and its ramifications	With the whole tzuriss over the &quot;Protocols of the Elders of Zion&quot; reaching such a boiling point, I wish to recommend this excellent history of the topic. Rutgers Political Science Professor,  Stephen Eric Bronner, whose parents fled Nazi Germany and settled in the  German Jewish enclave of Washington Heights in Manhattan, provides this  remarkable analysis into the antecedents of THE PROTOCOLS, the reasons it  was published in 1903 by the Russian Imperial Secret Police, the groups  that used the Protocols for their political ends, the legal suit that was  brought against the book in the 1930's in Switzerland, the early opponents  to this popular fictitious Antisemitic tract, and the current state of  antisemitism, whether it be social, religious (judeophobia), or political.	2000-04-15
US	49956909	RI0MFESKCNM5N	0609603302	863875069	The Book of Jewish Values: A Day-by-Day Guide to Ethical Living	Books	5	51	54	N	N	How to live a jewish life explained for the perplexed	The inches devoted to Telushkin books on my shelves are growing.  Who is the better person?  The person who performs a holiday ritual to perfection, or the person who is ethical and helpful.  Which is the better  &quot;personal ad&quot;?  One that lists that the suitor has a DDS or JD  degree, or one that states that the person is a 'mensch'?  A co-worker used  to correct me if I said, &quot;I have time to kill.&quot;  He said,  &quot;make time to live.&quot;  Or when a flight was delayed, rather than  be irritated, he thought, &quot;oh, more time to read or meet  someone.&quot;  He tipped the chambermaid big even though they never met.  Jewish Values are similar.  We need to seek not to be annoyed, but to  empathize, to connect with our neighbors, to heal, to help, and to praise.  This insightful book of 313 teachings reminded me of our greater purpose;  and its daily 2 page format made it easy to assimilate the information and  advice and attempt to apply it in everyday life.	2000-03-31
US	49956909	R3TK246FBCG2FW	1580230245	489576099	These Are the Words: A Vocabulary of Jewish Spiritual Life	Books	4	19	19	N	N	A very good reference book, the language of spirituality	Arthur Green's new book explores 149 (not 148) fundamental Hebrew words at the heart of Judaism, giving each word life and purpose for modern lives.  It is a spiritual vocabulary list that can be used as a reference work.  He  welcomes the reader to write comments in the margins, agree and or disagree  with his definitions.  As he says, Judaism doesn't work in English  translation, and serious study and commitment to Judaism requires a basic  Hebrew vocabulary.  Green, a non Kabbalistic, neo-mystic; distinguished  professor, teacher, and former head of Reconstructionist Rabbinical  College, began keeping a list of words while working on another book, and  the list kept growing.  The words are divided into eight sections. Some of  the sections are: &quot;Holy Times/Holy Seasons&quot;; &quot;Holy  Names&quot;; &quot;Holy Things&quot;; &quot;God and The Worlds Above&quot;;  &quot;Community&quot;; &quot;Religious Practice&quot;; &quot;Spiritual  Life&quot;; and &quot;Torah: Text and Process.&quot;  Words that are  explained include the basics that are infused with greater meaning, such as  Atah (You), Bar/Bat Mitzvah, Elohim (God), Emet (Truth), Ein Sof, Halacha,  Emunah (Faith), Kaddish, Shekhinah, and Ber'iah (Creation).	2000-03-31
US	49956909	R2G24AU3L2497X	0807036161	724926275	Voices of the Matriarchs: Listening to the Prayers of Early Modern Jewish Women	Books	5	3	9	N	N	Recipient of the Koret Foundation Jewish Book Award	Recipient of the Koret Foundation - National Foundation for Jewish Culture Annual Jewish Book Award for Best Jewish History Book.  Award to be presented April 2000 in NYC	2000-03-26
US	49956909	R2ZUMP8CAHSNM2	0385488823	109580155	Journey to the End of the Millennium	Books	4	2	10	N	N	Winner of the Koret Award for Best Fiction 1999	This book is the recipient of the Koret Foundation  and National Foundation for Jewish Culture Book Award for Best Jewish Fiction Book of 1999	2000-03-26
US	49956909	R1A2A6JBSJ5Y42	0684827190	52658391	The Gefilte Variations: 200 Inspired Re-creations of Classics from the Jewish Kitchen, with Menus, Stories, and Traditions for the Holidays and Year-Round	Books	4	20	20	N	N	A Jewish Cookbook that would make J.S.Bach proud	These are the GEFILTE VARIATIONS by Cohen, not the GOLDBERG Variations by JSBach as performed by Glenn Gould. Just a note of history first. The Goldberg Variations (Aria with 30 variations) were composed by J. S. Bach  for Count Herman Carl von Keyserlingk of Dresden to be played to soothe him  by his harpsichordist and 15 year old prodigy Johann Gottlieb Goldberg  (1727-1756). The variations explore the full palette of emotions: joy,  contemplation, happy, quiet, tragic, resurrection. Okay, now what about  this Jewish recipe and story book? Just as Bach showed full range and  innovation, the Gefilte Variations is innovative in its presentation and  reinterpretation of the Jewish musical, I mean recipe, standards, such as  matzo balls (with fennel and seasonal changes), kasha (with melted  eggplant) chopped liver, kugels (with peaches), entrees (like fish and  rhubarb and tomato), soups, latkes (with persimmon), and matzo brei (with  artichoke hearts, with wine and dried plums, or french toast style, or  fritatta style, or fluffy egg style, or pancake style).  Oh their are so  many variations.  Speaking of matzo, Cohen provides a recipe for recrisping  matzo to give it that fresh from the Williamburg oven taste (toasting it at  400 degrees), as well as at least five variations of flavored motzot, from  lemon to cheese to sweet to onion, garlic, thyme, or herb. I hope I have  given you a flavor of the book's contents.	2000-03-24
US	49956909	R23J4ZC2YID5RP	0446524794	81651019	The Genesis of Justice: Ten Stories of Biblical Injustice that Led to the Ten Commandments and Modern Morality and Law	Books	4	57	65	N	N	If History Begins in Sumer, Law Begins in Genesis...	....let's discuss this enlightening book which explores the stories<br />from the first book (Genesis) of the five books of Moses (Torah) from<br />the perspective of law and justice.  Based on Torah, Talmud, rabbinic<br />commentaries, the Hasidic commentaries of Rabbi Levi Isaac of<br />Berditchev, and the legal insight of a yeshiva educated Harvard law<br />professor, the reader follows the development of the concept of<br />justice.  Consider the flawed personalities in the Book of<br />Genesis... it's like watching 5 seasons of Law &amp; Order: Adam and<br />Eve (expulsion); Cain and Abel (murder and favoritism); Noah, Abraham<br />and Isaac (attempted murder, the akedah), Hagar and Sarah; Abraham,<br />Sodom and ten good people (collective punishment?); Esau and Jacob<br />(bait &amp; switch, verbal contracts and trickery); Jacob and Laban;<br />Hamor, circumcision, and Jacob's sons; Joseph and his<br />brothers. Dershowitz provides an enlightening read and ready access to<br />commentaries that remove the rose-colored glasses from the stories you<br />heard as a child.	2000-03-23
US	49956909	R2AT4D44LVUXCY	0151003785	141089371	Open Closed Open: Poems	Books	5	23	24	N	N	Poetry for the soul	The English translation of Yehudah Amichai's 1998 book of poetry. This is a magnum opus.  A poet would be needed to describe the genius of his words.  I never &quot;get&quot; poetry.  It doesn't work for me.  But then I read  a poem by Yehudah Amichai and it made sense.  Then I went to hear him at a  reading at NYU several years ago, and it clicked.  One wants to fall in  love for the sole reason that one could then use one of his poems.  Then I  read an excerpt from this book last Fall in &quot;The Forward,&quot; and  for the past 6 months I have been anxious for this book's release.  I  bought this book and I consumed it.  Reading his poems is like praying,  like meditating.  Here is one tiny excerpt that is reprinted with  permission.  If it clicks for you, get the book.  &quot;Tova's brother,  whom I carried wounded from the battle at Tel Gath, / recovered and was  forgotten because he recovered, and died  /  a few years later in a car  crash, and was forgotten  /  because he died. And even if my bloodied hands  /  had been prophets then, my eyes saw not  /  and my feet knew not what  the grain in the field knows,  /  that green wheat ripens yellow.  /  That's the life prophecy of a field of wheat.&quot;	2000-03-13
US	49956909	R1VOKZR7QRW0OT	0684847388	838627708	Never Nosh A Matzo Ball: A Ruby the Rabbi's Wife Mystery (Ruby, the Rabbi's Wife Mysteries)	Books	4	8	8	N	N	When the Jewish penicillin becomes the jewish strychnine	Just in time for passover, the author of &quot;Fax Me A Bagel&quot; delivers another Ruby Rothman mystery, just like Moses delivered the Hebrews.  Who says soup is good for you?  In some cases it can be the Jewish strychnine and not the penicillin.  Return to Eternal Texas and meet  Ruby Rothman, the widow of the rabbi.  Rebbitzen Rothman is helping the  synagogue raise money by selling frozen matzo balls (how many widows do you  know who will still help out even after their husbands (the rabbi) have  been replaced).  But then the local personal trainer is found dead at the  spa with a thawed matzo ball in hand.  Can it be related to the current  rabbi's infatuation with another spa employee?  Is there something not so  kosher at the interfaith seder or spa?  Lt. Lundy teams up with Rothman to  solve the case.  A very funny mystery that mixes temple politics, the  community, a seder, and the happenings in Eternal TX	2000-02-29
US	49956909	R13A4B6ETY2JHX	068816451X	598965884	Mother and Daughter Jewish Cooking: Two Generations Of Jewish Women Share Traditional And Contemporary Recipes	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Passing down recipes and kitchen secrets	Jewish women have been cooking and handing down their recipes since Rivka cooked a savory dish with which Jacob tricked Isaac.  Evelyn Rose is the food editor for the UK Jewish Chronicle and author of the cookbook nearly  every Jewish home owns: The New Complete International Jewish Cookbook. Her  daughter, Judi, who lives in NYC, is a producer for the BBC and is  currently preparing a series on Thai cooking.  Mother passes traditions and  tips and lore onto daughter in this book.  In addition to recipes and tips  (tips on frying onions, soaking beans, chopping, preparing rice, and baking  skills), folktales are also passed down to the new generation, such as how  it took Evelyn ten years to coax the Rose family pickle recipe out of her  husband.  The Roses also include some holiday menus at the back of the book  which makes it easier for you to add their recipes to your holiday  presentations.  For each classic Jewish recipe, the authors also present  updated hybrids.  For example, recipes include classic chicken soup,  followed by a contemporary szechuan chicken soup with soy, ginger, or  lemongrass.  Hungarian Goulash soup is followed by a Spanish red pepper  soup. A traditional Jewish lentil soup is paired with a Cream of  Watercress; chopped chicken liver is followed by liver pate with pears and  a citrus and red currant sauce; or maybe you'd prefer a vegetarian  mock-liver zucchini pate.  Traditional Sephardic cheese puffs are followed  by contemporary French petites gougeres.  A traditional Tunisian baked  omelet (badinjan kuku) is followed by Israeli cream cheese pancakes.  The  Roses provide a recipe for a lokshen kugel that can be made with wheat and  egg free asian noodles (did you know that lakcha means noodles in  Turkish?), as well as an excellent recipe for a traditional Anglo-Jewish  halibut in lemon sauce, and a kosher Valencian seafood-free paella.  Gefilte fish is hybridized with Gefilte Fish Provencale, Marmite due  Pecheur, and Normandy style fish with cider and apples.  There are a dozen  chicken dishes, including a lemon chicken; an orange, raisin, and honey  chicken; and spice roasted chicken with apricot and bulgher stuffing. As  for salad recipes; to name a few, there is Moroccan carrot-raisin; fennel,  almond and black grape; Manchester style potato; cucumber; and melon,  cucumber and strawberry.  The desserts are to die for, need I say more?  Okay, let me mention three: A traditional Queen of Sheba Flourless  Chocolate Gajeau, a contemporary Viennese Apfelschnitten, and a classic  Jewish Apple Pie.  A very good resource for the Jewish and non-jewish cook.ish with cider and apples.  There are a dozen  chicken dishes, including a lemon chicken; an orange, raisin, and honey  chicken; and spice roasted chicken with apricot and bulgher stuffing. As  for salad recipes; to name a few, there is Moroccan carrot-raisin; fennel,  almond and black grape; Manchester style potato; cucumber; and melon,  cucumber and strawberry.  The desserts are to die for, need I say more?   Okay, let me mention three: A traditional Queen of Sheba Flourless  Chocolate Gajeau, a contemporary Viennese Apfelschnitten, and a classic  Jewish Apple Pie.  A very good resource for the Jewish and non-jewish cook.	2000-02-23
US	49956909	R1XHUZXIXAZO6J	0765760967	324339002	Haman and the Jews: A Portrait from Rabbinic Literature	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Haman through the ages...haman-noshin	A perceptive study of the standard and psychological archetype of the Haman character from the Book of Esther, and an exploration of the way the rabbinical sages treated his character in their writings and commentaries,  interpreting the Purim story from the vantage point of their own problems  with pogroms, riots, and persecutions, and even including some  blame-the-victim' commentaries in which Haman is said to have been created  by God in reposne to the communities sins.	2000-02-23
US	49956909	R2705PKS95HGG7	0801862175	625080938	Rabin and Israel's National Security (Woodrow Wilson Center Press)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	interested ideas, how domestic policies led Rabin to DC	A clear and unemotional examination of Rabin's impact on Israeli government, security and military affairs, including his influence through his personnel appointments, arms acquisitions and policies.  Inbar, of  teacher at Bar Ilan, raises interesting ideas on whether the Deri Affair  and the lapse in Syrian Peace negotiations led Rabin to travel to  Washington DC to sign with the PA and Arafat.	2000-02-18
US	49956909	R2ARWP9EVD9AQ	0688171613	269203476	Queer 13: Lesbian And Gay Writers Recall Seventh Grade	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Not for Queers Only	This collection of 25 autobiographical essays about gays and lesbians at age 13 is not for queers only.  You may ask, what makes it a Jewish Book?  Well, what is age 13? The age of bar and bat mitzvah's, the age of  wo/manhood, seventh grade, hair growth, Keds, adolescence, zits,  humiliation, name-calling, teen-star posters, summer camp bunkmates,  Playboy magazines, and peer scrutiny. An age when you make your way to  Junior High, gain friends, lose friends, outgrow friends, and are outgrown  by others... a time when some focus on band practice and other on  athletics, and others... who knows. At least six of the writers discuss  their Jewish adolescence, so the book may be of interest to Jewish readers.  They include Robert Gluck's &quot;Three from Thirteen&quot;, in which he  mentions the irony of his Bar Mitzvah parsha being the story of Sodom and  Gomorrah. In Gabrielle Glancy's &quot;Train&quot;, she discusses how she  managed the school officer campaign of her German/Swiss, swastika loving  classmate, even though she was obsessed with fellow tribesman, David  Gittelman, as well as Diane McCann. In David Bergman's &quot;A Close  Escape,&quot; David recounts a sickly miserable life in Queens NY which was  enriched by an enchanting performance of the puppet show, Sleeping Beauty,  and his desire for association with one boy and lust for another. David's  Bar Mitzvah was a grim, small, estranged affair which marked his escape  from shul and elementary school. In Wayne Koestenbaum's &quot;Fashions of  1971&quot;, Wayne writes about his boy scout uniform, bell bottoms, LOVE  shirt, fringe, P.E. class jocks and coaches, tube socks, and Becky's slip.  In Lisa Cohen's &quot;Still Life with Boys&quot; we find a make out scene  with the Bar Mitzvah boy. And in Michael Lowenthal's (SAME EMBRACE)  &quot;Lost in Translation&quot;, he recounts Spanish class, the derision of  classmates, a Bar Mitzvah sleepover party, and his desire for a classmate.	2000-02-15
US	49956909	R2DT5LMKGGX4M6	1879045567	345420006	Israel-A Spiritual Travel Guide: A Companion for the Modern Jewish Pilgrim	Books	4	27	27	N	N	Use Fodors for the hotel &amp; body, and this for the spirit	It is the must companion for any traveler to Israel. The blurb says it best, &quot;the other travel books tell you how to get there, Hoffman tells you why to go and what to do when you're there.&quot; Hoffman, a Professor  of Liturgy at HUC-JIR, is best known for his book, &quot;What Is A  Jew?&quot; His travel guide is in four sections. The first contains  eighteen (chai) meditations to be read before embarking on one's trip to  Israel. The second section is on preparations for &quot;the eve before the  trip.&quot;  Section three focuses on &quot;How to prepare while on the  way.&quot; And Section four is filled with 25 specific pilgrimage  destinations for the traveler. For each site, such as The Kotel or a  Kibbutz, Professor Hoffman provides THE FOUR A's -- four sections on  &quot;Anticipation,&quot; &quot;Approach,&quot; &quot;Acknowledgment,&quot;  and &quot;Afterthought.&quot; In Anticipation, one reads an overview of the  sight; Approach contains biblical, rabbinic and other writings about the  site; Acknowledgment is filled with prayers or readings for you to recite  at your destination; and Afterthought provides a blank space in which you  may record your feelings, emotions, or just plain journal entries that you  can keep forever. This is an excellent companion for a trip to Israel.	2000-02-07
US	49956909	R30YJEVYAJTNET	060960502X	476038738	Haikus for Jews: For You, a Little Wisdom	Books	5	19	20	N	N	The poetry of Jewish Neurosis	So you thought I would / Write a Jewish haiku to / Sell this book. Guess  not.<br />Bader, a Hahvahd Lawyer, and the author of&quot;How to Be an  Extremely Reform Jew&quot; provides the essence of the faith in 5-7-5 / 17  syllable portions. Like the Japanese ahiku, the Jewish haiku (or CHAI-ku)  includes 'a kigo', or a 'season word' hinting at a time of year. It is  sheer genius.  My favorites were one about a mohel pruning the growth in  his garden and:  Heimlich. Is that a /  Jewish name? I wonder as / a diner  turns blue.	1999-10-30
US	49956909	R1KMG9JQDKO7XU	037550267X	501534600	The 2nd Ave Deli Cookbook: Recipes and Memories from Abe Lebewohl's Legendary Kitchen	Books	5	47	51	N	N	I came for the kugel, but stayed for the menschlichkeit	All those years I naively ate my soup and sandwich at the counter, or got  takeout, and I never knew about the famous clientele.  This is a  magnificent cookbook that combines recipes and stories that prove that one  person, even a restauranteur, can make a difference in the big city.  The  2nd Avenue Deli makes 1,000 pounds of cole slaw a day.  That's alot of  cabbage even for the East Village.  It serves 400,000 meals per year, and  touches the lives of those fressers in a big way.  Of the 166 recipes, the  following are worth the price of the book alone...the chopped liver, the  challah-apple stuffing, Paul Reiser's egg cream, and Morley Safer's  memories.	1999-10-30
US	49956909	RAKOQYKJ1S4UE	0836267532	379052197	Living Solo	Books	4	9	10	N	N	Capturing the facades and inner lives of solo livers	Using a 4x5 camera with strobe over six months, Adrienne Salinger has captured the candid, intimate lives of fifty of the over 26 million  Americans who live solo. Some of the subjects live alone by choice and  others by circumstance.  Some will be alone in the short term, others, you  expect, will live alone forever.<br />Growing up, Salinger loved to read  about Pippi Longstocking, the character who lived alone by her own rules.  Living solo, she knew, means that everything remains where you put it when  you return home, you can eat over the sink, and you can swig beverages from  the bottle.  The essays that accompany each photo illuminate the subject  with great intimacy.  Eight of my favorite photos were those of Amy, who  sits lonely in a bedroom of lively, bold colors; Bruce, a manager of  retirement homes, who sits before a large painting of a chinese takeout  container and discusses identity, estrangement, and keeping kosher; Chika,  and aspiring musician in a run-down room; Dan, a former employee of Oprah,  stands in his kitchen and talks of self-esteem and past Jewish boyfriends;  Elvira, age 88, a former model talks of her red convertible from her regal  yet sensible plastic coated chair; Eva, age 86, stands erect in her  immaculate kitchen and talks, maybe non chalantly, of Auschwitz and her  husband's recent suicide; Joan, in a red couch of luxury talks of widowhood  and starting over; and Joan, standing before a large closet and bags of  shoes talks of a Long Island childhood.	1999-10-15
US	49956909	RJ8KPNF7E4U4E	1568362870	875674438	One God Clapping: The Spiritual Path of a Zen Rabbi	Books	4	10	10	N	N	How a yen for Zen turned into a tasty thirst for Torah	Whenever I am in San Francisco, that City by the Bay, I leave my heart at Congregation Beth Shalom, the friendliest shul West of Nevada.  So when I  saw this book authored by its rabbi, I immediately purchased it.  Rabbi  Alan Lew, the popular Rabbi of San Francisco's Congregation Beth Shalom  discusses his rich Brooklyn childhood, his family's move to the vacuous  suburbs of Westchester, his studies at Penn, his marriage, his move into  Zen and ten years in monastic contemplation to fulfill his spiritual  yearnings, and his return to Judaism and the rabbinate. This is the story  of his integration of the East with the West.  It's about Jewish karma,  baby, and the reclamation of spirituality.  It's about why so many Jewish  youth turn East in their spiritual quests, experiment with Eastern  religions and worship the exotic, it's about the twisted Yakov in all of us  who yearns to wrestle with god and come out Yisrael (yashar/straight). It's  about an Iowa Writers Program grad who practiced Zen for a decade, happened  upon a synagogue, became its lay leader, enrolled in rabbinical school at  age 38, and six years later graduated as a valedictorian and prize winner.  Rabbi Lew's tale is similar to that of last Summer's book by Rabbi Tirzah  Firestone (With Roots in Heaven), in that both author's heard an inner  voice of their grandmothers' which returned them to their birth faiths.  Thankfully, his ill-gotten Everlast Boxing shorts and gloves were stolen in  his childhood, so he became a teacher instead of a boxer. But seriously  folks, this book is both easy to read and interesting. I hope you find it  as enjoyable as I did.	1999-07-28
US	49956909	R9ZVO8GDG635Q	0375400036	11435986	To Begin Again: The Journey Toward Comfort, Strength, and Faith in Difficult Times	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Sharing the strength to overcome life's tragedies	How do you continue after experiencing a painful loss?  How do you overcome being a survivor in order to become a participant.  How does a  rabbi answer a congregant who ask the value of believing and praying when  tragedy occurs?  Rabbi Naomi Levy, who served Congregation Mishkon Tephilo  in Venice California has known grief, and has written this book to help  people overcome tragedy.  It is must reading for anyone who has experienced  loss, is considering rabbinical school or is planning to work in the Jewish  counseling.  Rabbi Levy is one of the first female graduates of JTS'  rabbinical school.  The book is filled with stories of loss and recovery,  and applicable prayers and quotes from Jewish texts.  The first chapter  opens with the kidnapping, robbery and rape of a congregant while on her  way to Kol Nidre services.  In later chapters we meet a congregant who  loses all physical connection to her past when a fire destroys her family's  home (except for a single unmelted mezuzah), another who suffers a  stillbirth, and others who suffer illnesses, addictions, and other losses.  Rabbi Levy had her own losses to overcome, too.  At age fifteen, her father  was brutally, senselessly murdered by a mugger, leaving a devastated family  and destroying Naomi's faith in the police, doctors, people and god.  Naomi  became a pessimist overnight, and understood the Talmudic quote that 'to  destroy a single life is to destroy the world.' Yet, she was able to slowly  overcome this loss.  The book is not going to cure the reader overnight,  but it will set you on the right path and give you or your friends hope.	1999-05-19
US	49956909	R38EGVKH263QOM	0312198604	416869246	A Drizzle of Honey : The Lives and Recipes of Spain's Secret Jews	Books	5	53	55	N	N	When chicken soup got you killed instead of healed	I came across this in the shelves the other day and was mesmerized.  David Gitlitz and Linda Kay Davidson are a husband and wife team and teachers at  the the University of Rhode Island.  David is a past winner of the 1996  National Jewish Book Award, and he is a specialist in aljamas (jewish  neighborhoods), the converso/crypto Jews, the anusim (forced converts) and  the meshumadim (willing coverts). Using cookbooks and Inquisition documents  in Spanish, Portuguese and Catalan (including the rare 13th Century Al  Andalus cookbook of the Cocina Hispano-Magribi), the authors have  recreating over 90 recipes of the Converso jewish community.  During the  Inquisitions in the Iberian peninsula, Jews and Moslems were killed,  exiled, or converted.  Some of the converted remained Jewish or Moslem and  became Crypto-Jews, Crypto-Moslems, or Conversos.  Spain expelled Jews in  1492 (you know, when Columbus sailed the Ocean Blue); Portugal expelled  Jews in 1497.  The recipes are well categorized, and make use of lamb,  beef, fish, eggplant, greens, turnips, chickpeas, as well as mace,  cinnamon, ginger, lavender, rue, portulaca, and dozens of other spices.  Most recipes include histories and characters of the period, which is the  prime motivation to purchase this book.  For example, along of the recipes  of Beatrice Nunez, we learn that she was arrested in 1485.  Her maid turned  her in to the Inquisition for the crime of maintaining a kosher kitchen.  She also prepared a Sabbath stew of lamb, chickpeas and eggs.  Proof enough  to have her burned at the stake.  Among my favorite recipes is Mayor  Gonzalez's Egg and Carrot Casserole.  She was imprisoned in 1483 for  killing a goose in &quot;the Jewish way.&quot;  Then there is Juan  Sanchez's hamin of chickpeas, spinach and cabbage; and Maria de Luna's  rasquillas, honey pastries that she prepared for the post-Yom Kippur fast.  She was arrested in 1505 for this crime.  There is also Juan de Teva's  Roast Lamb dish.  Juan's father was a rabbi who was burned to death i  n1484.  The authors also include the Roast Chicken with Fruit and Almori  recipe of Anton de Montoro.  Senor de Montoro was a rag merchat in Cordoba,  but is most well known as being the converso poet to the Court of Queen  Isabel of Castile.  De Montoro was accused of preparing  stuffed radishes  (a Jewish dish) and Pollo Judio (jewish chicken).  Easily, this is among  the top three Jewish Cookbooks of the year.n's father was a rabbi who was burned to death i  n1484.  The authors also include the Roast Chicken with Fruit and Almori  recipe of Anton de Montoro.  Senor de Montoro was a rag merchat in Cordoba,  but is most well known as being the converso poet to the Court of Queen  Isabel of Castile.  De Montoro was accused of preparing  stuffed radishes  (a Jewish dish) and Pollo Judio (jewish chicken).  Easily, this is among  the top three Jewish Cookbooks of the year.	1999-05-16
US	49956909	RMY71IQ8NBVFB	0688155901	433842460	The New York Times Passover Cookbook : More Than 200 Holiday Recipes from Top Chefs and Writers	Books	4	20	22	N	N	Chad Gadya?  Who knows one?  Who knows 175 recipes!	Each year, thousands of readers of The New York Times await a Wednesday &quot;Dining In / Dining Out (DiDo)&quot; section that appears in the week  or so preceding the Jewish holiday of Passover. They want to read about  time-honored / traditional and updated / newer holiday recipes that give  one a taste of the holiday, conform to dietary rules, and provide a aura of  rebirth and freedom. Linda Amster, a DiDo section regular, has compiled the  most exciting recipes in this Passover Cookbook; sure to become a classic.  Had she only included Wolfgang Puck's Los Angeles seder recipes...  &quot;Dayenu,&quot; it would have been enough. Had she only then added Paul  Prudhommes Pesach veal roast... &quot;Dayenu,&quot; that too would have  been enough to make this worthwhile. And what about Anne Rosenzweig recipe  for haroseth? &quot;Dayenu.&quot; We get 175 recipes. They are all in this  book. I doubt that I will ever prepare a tenth of the recipes in the book,  yet it is an exciting read none the less.	1999-02-15
US	49956909	R1GC6BC4ILIH0Y	0380976013	34257490	Looking for Lost Bird: A Jewish Woman Discovers Her Navajo Roots	Books	4	20	21	N	N	A poignant uplifting story about finding one's roots + place	A few years ago, NBC-TV did a story about a 43 year old Jewish woman who, when she sought out her birth parents, discovered that she was actually  born to a Navajo family.  Yvette was a lost bird, the name Native Americans  give to their children who were stolen by &quot;well-meaning&quot; white  social workers and others.  This is Yvette's  fascinating story.  Yvette  Melanson was born &quot;out West&quot; in the 1950's, adopted by a Jewish  couple in Miami, and raised in New York City in a wealthy, doting, Jewish  family.  Although she knew she was adopted, her parents always deflected  questions about her roots, but did let it slip that she had a twin brother.  When her mother died a painful death when Yvette was just a young  teenager, Yvette's father blamed Yvette, rejected her, and soon remarried a  woman who treated Yvette worse than Cinderella. So I don't give away any  more juicy details, suffice it to say that Yvette moved to a Kibbutz in  Israel at 17, was injured as a soldier during the '73 Yom Kippur War,  returned to the U.S., joined the US Navy, and settled in Maine to raise a  family.  Can you believe that at her father's funeral, a stranger had to  ask her stepmother to move over so Yvette could sit in the family pew?  Can  you believe such a family?  Upon discovering her true birth heritage a  while after the funeral, we follow Yvette as she meets her Navajo family,  learns the truth, tries to fit into Navajo culture, which is sometimes at  odds with a more loud, New York City/Israeli/Jewish one, and finds  similarities between her Jewish faith and Navajo culture.  Will she fit in?  Will she find her twin brother?  Can a Jewish woman find peace on the res?  A fascinating cross-cultural story	1999-02-03
US	49956909	R6HM1JE699JON	0684823411	853290256	Lord Will Gather Me In: My Journey to Jewish Orthodoxy	Books	3	5	7	N	N	Enduring 4 Circumcisions to join a People	Maybe this book should be subtitled &quot;Blood, Blood, and More Blood, The Story of My Four Circumcisions and Search for Authenticity.&quot;  David Klinghoffer is a former writer for The Washington Times, is a current  senior editor of William F. Buckley's The National Review, and a  contributor to Commentary and other periodicals.<br />This is the story of  Klinghoffer's path of ba'alei teshuvah, or return, to Jewish Orthodoxy, his  desire for a relationship with god, and his nurturing of a fear of god. It  is his story of why Orthodoxy is the only path. I was intrigued that a  major push to him came from his devoutly Roman Catholic girlfriend, just as  major pushes to Judaism came from the non-Jewish spouses in Tirzah  Firestone's and Stephen J. Dubner's Fall 1998 books on their religious  returns.  I also observed that his mother passed away when David was a  teen. Firestone's brother died when she was a teen, Naomi Levine's father  was murdered when she was a teen, and Dubner's father died when he was a  pre-teen.  Coincidence?<br />Let me be frank. By the second page of this  book, I wanted to cast it aside. By page 250, my attitude softened and the  story came together. My dislike of the book dissipated -- a tad.  I was  honestly alienated by what I sensed as his smugness towards his own  religious upbringing, bordering on the insulting to the majority of his  co-religionists who are not Orthodox.  Must he compare Reform Judaism to  Menelaus and Antiochus Epiphanes the Fourth, or the Central synagogue to a  Byzantine Church? (I think it looks like the Budapest Orthodox synagogue.)<br />The book, I feel, is about an adoptee's search for authenticity, whether  it is an authentic name for his high school (Miraleste), an authentic  antique or pre-War apartment building, or authenticity in Jewish belief --  Orthodoxy. Is it a Jewish Pinocchio story?  It is a story of the feeling  that an adopted child and adult may be an imposter, and lacks the right  blood, so much so that one becomes a hypochondriac with high BLOOD  pressure, and gets circumcised four times in an effort to get it  &quot;right.&quot; It is a story of feeling out of place with  Swedish-blonde looks in a synagogue of darker hair and skin tones.<br />In  the later chapters, as he seeks out his birth mother, and travels with her  to Stockholm, the book came together, for me.  The book became more  interesting and his thesis coalesced.  If you overlook his jibes at the  non-Orthodox and those culturally Orthodox adherents that are secret  Agnostics, I can recommend this book to those who wonder why some people  yearn for Orthodoxy.so much so that one becomes a hypochondriac with high BLOOD  pressure, and gets circumcised four times in an effort to get it  &quot;right.&quot; It is a story of feeling out of place with  Swedish-blonde looks in a synagogue of darker hair and skin tones. <br />In  the later chapters, as he seeks out his birth mother, and travels with her  to Stockholm, the book came together, for me.   The book became more  interesting and his thesis coalesced.  If you overlook his jibes at the  non-Orthodox and those culturally Orthodox adherents that are secret  Agnostics, I can recommend this book to those who wonder why some people  yearn for Orthodoxy.	1998-12-01
US	49956909	R2OQ1AZQWUR78F	0688151809	571083724	Turbulent Souls: A Catholic Son's Return To His Jewish Family	Books	4	23	24	N	N	A poignant must read on choosing one's religion	Some people are blessed with the ability to become true-believers without a day of doubt.  Others are blessed with the peace of being atheist.  Stephen Dubner's parents fell into the former camp. When Stephen Dubner  wrote an article on how he grew up devoutly Catholic, discovered that both  his parents were converts from Judaism, and then he returned to his  family's Jewish roots, it became The Times's most talked about article of  1996.  After the Sunday magazine article appeared, he was deluged by  letters and calls either inviting him to temples and Sabbath dinners, or  criticizing him for returning to the mythology and opiate oppression of  religion.  Now Stephen has expanded on his article by recounting his deeply  personal journey from Catholicism to Judaism. It is about religion,  spirituality, hidden family histories, confusion, parents, siblings, as  well as the tension, comic errors, and confusion his search and return  created.  Broken into three sections, Dubner begins by focusing on the  paths his mother (Florence Greenglass / Veronica) and father (Sol Dubner/  Paul) independently took to Catholicism, their Jewish roots, the reactions  of their parents and siblings (sitting shiva), their marriage, and early  wedded life.  Section Two begins with the birth of Veronica and Paul's  eighth child, Stephen J. (all the kids got a first or middle name of either  Joseph or Mary), and his life in rural New York, a life of limited money  that rotated around Mass, doing rosaries on the front lawn, being a good  altar boy, the Catholic feasts, and catechism. Section Three focuses on  Stephen's increased interest in Judaism, how his stories for an earlier job  at New York Magazine drew him into a world of New York Jewish  personalities, his search for Jewish relatives in Brooklyn, his quest to  learn more about his father (who died suddenly after giving a speech at a  charismatic-Catholic prayer meeting when Stephen was a boy), his trip back  to Judaism, and his reconciliation with his devoutly Catholic mother (with  some advice from Cardinal O'Connor).  Basically, a poignant memoir and a  must read.	1998-11-03
US	49956909	RUT37RRAMNGHP	0688151809	571083724	Turbulent Souls: A Catholic Son's Return To His Jewish Family	Books	4	53	53	N	N	The Fall 98 must read book on return and family	Some people are blessed with the ability to be religious and become true-believers.  Others are blessed with the peace of being atheist. When  Stephen Dubner wrote an article on how he grew up devoutly Catholic,  discovered that both his parents were converts from Judaism, and then  returned to his family's Jewish roots, it became The Times's most talked  about article of the year.  After the Sunday magazine article appeared, he  was deluged by letters and calls either inviting him to temples and Sabbath  dinners, or criticizing him for returning to the myths and oppression of  religion.  But now Stephen has expanded on his article by recounting in  detail his deeply personal journey from Catholicism to Judaism.  It is  about religion, spirituality, hidden family histories, confusion, parents,  siblings, as well as the tension, comic errors, and confusion his search  and return created.  Broken into three sections, Dubner focuses on the  paths his mother (Miriam/Mary)and father (Solly/Paul) took to Catholicism,  their Jewish roots, the reactions from their family members (sitting  shiva), their marriage, and early wedded life, in Section One.  Section Two  begins with the birth of their eighth child Stephen J. (all the kids got a  first or middle name of wither Joseph or Mary), and Stephen's life in rural  New York that rotated around Mass, the Catholic feasts, and catechism; and  Section Three focuses on Stephen's interest in Judaism, his search for  Jewish relatives, his quest to learn more about his father (who died  suddenly after giving a speech at a charismatic-Catholic prayer meeting),  and his trip back.  Basically, this poignant tale is a must read for  Fall/Winter 98.	1998-10-29
US	49956909	R3F5VST0QJVVLQ	0525943692	885570903	With Roots in Heaven: One Woman's Passionate Journey into the Heart of Her Faith	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A suspenseful story of one woman's search for rad amazement	A lot of books come by my desk each season, and I approached this book  lacking any great interest.  But after the first few pages I was actually  addicted.  If an autobiography can be called suspenseful, this one is.  This book scores as both a primer in spirituality and the story of a woman  who flees her Orthodox upbringing in Saint Louis, studies New Age and  eastern religions, marries a Christian minister, but then returns to her  roots to study for the rabbinate.  Rabbi Firestone, a colleague of Rabbi  Zalman Schecter-Shalomi, is now a leader in the Jewish Renewal movement,  and serves the Jewish communities of Boulder Colorado and the Intermountain  area.  I will try not to ruin the suspense of the book's story, but suffice  it to say the following: The book opens when Rabbi Firestone, born Miriam  Firestone in Saint Louis, walks into a Miami hotel for the wedding of her  niece.  Her brothers, sisters, and mother will be there; some of whom she  has not seen in decades, some of whom view her as dead!  We must wait for  the epilogue to discover what happens at the hotel.  Between this intro and  the epilogue, we follow Tirzah and her family and friends as she yearns for  and seeks out spiritual connections, and desires to learn her bashert in  life.  She must realize the true path of her heart and discover the  inverted tree that descends from the heavens.  Along the way we learn why  New Age and Eastern religions have been so enticing to Jewish youth, we  meet Jew-Bhu's, Hin-Jews, and gurus. The late Rabbi Shlomo Carlbach, a  cousin to Tirzah, even makes an appearance in the book, as do beautiful  people and seekers of all religions, as well as rogue and manipulative  gurus and rabbis.  Regretably, her honest portraits of some of the Orthodox  leaders she meets along the way brings shame upon some in our community. It  took a troubled Christian minister to help Tirzah realize that what she  sought could be found in her birth religion of Judaism and in the writings  of Heschel, Buber, and the Lurianic Kabbalists.  I think readers will try  to read faster only to find out in each succeeding chapter what will happen  to Tirzah.  How will she react to her family's belief that her older  brother's suicide was due to a faulty mezuzah?  Like Jonah, will she  survive a sailing ordeal on the Pacific with a racist rabbi?  Will her  marriage kill her parents?  Will she learn to trust her own heart and break  her need to follow strong male spiritual leaders?  Can she overcome her  personal issues and fear of reconnecting with organized religion? Who is  that Yiddish jokester inner voice that saves her in many instances? Surely,  this book should be a contender for the Jewish Book Award.  This book may  actually change some of leader's opinions on officiating at intermarriages  in the future.itings  of Heschel, Buber, and the Lurianic Kabbalists.  I think readers will try  to read faster only to find out in each succeeding chapter what will happen  to Tirzah.  How will she react to her family's belief that her older  brother's suicide was due to a faulty mezuzah?  Like Jonah, will she  survive a sailing ordeal on the Pacific with a racist rabbi?  Will her  marriage kill her parents?  Will she learn to trust her own heart and break  her need to follow strong male spiritual leaders?  Can she overcome her  personal issues and fear of reconnecting with organized religion? Who is  that Yiddish jokester inner voice that saves her in many instances? Surely,  this book should be a contender for the Jewish Book Award.  This book may  actually change some of leader's opinions on officiating at intermarriages  in the future.	1998-09-07
