US	49973561	R3D0EZ1AKLTGE1	B000AI8L6M	981192109	The Big Bad Wolf: A Novel (Alex Cross novels)	Books	3	2	4	N	N	Overhyped	I was beginning to feel bad that I had not read any Alex Cross novels so I started with this book.  Maybe I started in the wrong place.  I am really disgusted by novels and television shows that seek to get inside the mind and motivation of a sick psycho killer.  The crimes get grosser and scarier and the victims dumb and dumber.  I would much rather spend more time with the victims and their reacclimation to family and friends than the comings and goings of the Wolf.  And it really irked me that he was not caught in the end.   <br /> <br />Much more interesting was Alex's view of the FBI and his feelings about the transition from the police department to the FBI.  Patterson could have done more to explore the strenghts and weaknesses of both groups and the tensions present when trying to work together.  That familiar \\"trust no one\\" was not sufficiently explored and the bad \\"good\\" guys just seemed to be recycled.   <br /> <br />I was very confused by the Alex Cross family man and lover scenario.  He did not seem to be particularly good at either and his children unusually forgiving.  I can only assume this situation was developed in an earlier book and is presented in this one as a given.  What were quickly described as part-time tasks are full-time jobs in my house.  Even a smart and savvy grandmother has trouble keeping up with teenagers and their busy school schedules, not to mention their social lives.  Cross appears only marginally involved with his family, and then only with the good parts.  An example is his relationship with a woman who lives 3,000 miles away.  Who couldn't maintain a relationship that only requires a half hour a day?  And that by phone.  It is the daily routine with my husband that causes friction. <br /> <br />I am reading the next Alex Cross book just to put an end, I hope, to the Wolf.  But after that I am leaving Patterson and too cool Cross behind.  He needs to develop a soul before I find him more interesting than the criminals he istracking.	2005-10-09
US	49973561	R2AF65GTNIQ9DB	0743488628	731534493	Warp Speed	Books	1	11	21	N	N	Warped read	I can not recommend this book to anyone.  I do not even want to give it away as my name is associated with it.  Oh, it starts out okay.  About midway, at the crash landing on Earth, you get a bit excited.  But from that point on it is straight downhill... to the cesspool. <br /> <br />This is the worst sci-fi book I have ever read.  How it got published is a mystery to me.  I actually spent time thinking of ways to fix this book.  I thought, first take out most of the science-tech talk.  I am not a scientist, I have no idea if Taylor's theories work and I actually don't care.  I also read science fantasy if it is a good adventure story.  And I ended up skipping a lot of the tech stuff just to get to the end of the book. Taylor writes like he, er.. his character, is the greatest scientists that every lived.  Bah.  Spare me having to read about it and get on with what it does. Second, stretch out the time.  These people do more in a day than I do in a week.  They are scientists inventing new things on the fly, black belts participating in tournaments, mountain bicyclists on day long excursions, and they drink lots and lots of beer and have hangovers.  Third, I would stretch this concept out into a series of books.  This book could have been three books with more development of the people, the scientists, the military, the enemy, and especially the general public.  Maybe that would have helped.  Finally, the main character, who seems to be talking to the reader, could have been a lot more humble.  Not only was he the greatest genius of all time, he had the answer to every question and he did not hesitate to tell us what was.   He spent far too much time preaching his politics and far too little time concerned with how to help the victims of the misuse of his technology.   <br /> <br />If you want a great read on a similar theme, Earth vs. Earth using new space technology, I highly recommend Mike Mullane's \\"Red Sky\\", or even Ben Bova's \\"Powersat\\".  Both are exciting andcredible with strong genius-type characters that have strengths and weaknesses.   <br />	2005-09-07
US	49973561	R197BTS0OKWWJI	0553587501	894969734	Hammered	Books	3	25	28	N	N	Maybe my standards are too high	Let me start by saying I am a big fan of women sci-fi writers and women as take charge heroes.  I am also over 50 and love it when the characters are mature.  But it took forever to get into this book.  It was very slow and even boring at times, which is weird because there were so many things going on.  I had a hard time focusing on who the characters were and what their relationships were to each other...many of them have more than one alias and AI personalities in virtual games. The flashbacks and recalls of 35 years make it even more confusing as they are in no particular order.  It took too long for the story to come together.  When I reached the end of the book and realized it was the first of a series I was angry as I was ready for a conclusion and felt that I had been tricked.  Hammered is like those manga novels my daughter reads that stop with a shocking clifthanger that is resolved in the next volume which also stops with a shocking clifthanger.  I was even upset about the name of the book, we did not even get to the bottom of the drug \\"Hammer\\" mystery in part one of this novel.<br /><br />I like the hero, Jenny, and I will read the next book just to see what happens to her.  Plus, I love sci-fi exploration and first contact stories and I hope this is where Bear is going with this saga now that they are capable of long distance space flight and FTL communication.  I am not as enamored with the  other characters or their motives, maybe the second book will develop the people and the politics better.<br /><br />Better than Hammered, I recommend Primary Inversion by Catherine Asaro. The hero is a 50ish woman who made the choice at 20 to accept into her body cyborg-like enhancements and become a pilot/warrior.  Throughout her life (and the series)she struggles with the impact of that decision. I thought of Jenny as another variation on Primary Inversion's Soz.	2005-08-18
US	49973561	R2Q44H2KE2XOFZ	0316710628	264333582	Honeymoon	Books	3	3	5	N	N	Just Don't Think About It	It is hot, my air conditioning is broken, and I thought I would divert myself with Honeymoon.  It worked.  Is is a fun, fast, and mindless read.  Perfect for someone housebound in August.  But this story does not hold up to thoughtful examination.  I hope the author did not intend it to be a realistic piece.  I read it more as a lightweight romantic suspence.  Nora just had too much going on.  Since she always used her same name and same business and professional contacts it is likely she would bump into herself all over the place.  These men were rich and powerful and photographed.  She would be seen and remembered.  Face it, New York, Connecticut, and Boston are practically surburbs of each other.    I also hate to read too much about filler characters.  Nora's mother is the best example. What was on the note Nora's mother wrote?  What did that have to do with Nora's subsequent behavior? And Nora's men, except O'Hara, were just too stupid to be self-made.  Didn't they ever come looking for her?  And what about the mysterious killer stalking Nora?  This book has a very clever premise, I am sure it looked good in the outline, but it was never fully developed into a first-rate novel.  Too many unanswered questions.  Sexual situations but a long way from steamy.  (P.S.  I hated bringing politics into the story at the end.  That is sooo tired.)  Suggestion: Same story, better treatment, try watching the classic Hitchcock thriller, Marnie.	2005-08-06
US	49973561	R9J5N8M0NDK6Z	0515138851	207294636	Dark Secret (The Carpathians (Dark) Series, Book 12)	Books	3	5	7	N	N	Too dark for me	I do not like this series.  I have read 3 of the books in the DARK series and I just cannot get into romance of the Carpathian men.  The men are selfish and secretive and yet they always seem to get their way.  I am not sure any of their once mortal lifemates get much out of the relationships.  The women become immortal, but they are vampires and have to give up sunlight, feed on human blood, and sleep in the ground.  Plus, they do not need to eat and lose all desire for food.  And they will have difficulty conceiving a Carpathian child, and it will have difficulty surviving until puberty.  Yet the women seem to willingly bond with these men with very little thought about the future.  The men all seem tortured and more than half crazy.  Why would anyone want to make a forever commitment to this family?   <br /> <br />I found the stories too dark and disturbing to the point that I could not sustain the romantic fantasy. There is no laughter in these stories.  No joy, no fun.  Reading one of these books might be okay but after 3 I was almost ready to bury myself in the dirt.  I much preferred Feehan's MIND GAME series.  The men and the women are more evenly matched and better able to give and take from each other.  I do not have much hope for the Carpathians.	2005-05-19
US	49973561	R1NW95P57YY2CT	0743453476	422431630	Whispers at Midnight	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Fast-paced and Light	\\"Whispers At Midnight\\" is great fun.  It is a fast-paced, light read with just enough action and romance to keep things from getting stale.  Although there is a murder mystery to solve and some creepy suspense, it never gets heavy and bogged down in CSI details.  We have Carly, our spunky heroine, who has moved from the big city to a small town after her divorce, but she is not jaded or cynical.  She likes the small town.  So we like it, too.  And we have our hero, Matt, who is both a responsible citizen and a bit of a romantic rogue.  The supporting cast is kept to a manageable size with minimum development so we are not sidetracked from the main characters.  It reminded me of a Janet Evanovich novel because sometimes it was just plain corny and made me want to laugh out loud.  This book is great because; the main characters are over 30; the main characters are not rich; and the people eat real food.  More sexy romance than sex.  A good read for a day when you are feeling a little down and want a pick-me-up.	2005-04-23
US	49973561	R1WEADFCHJ2OY	0060504110	311529941	Die in Plain Sight (Rarities Unlimited)	Books	2	21	22	N	N	Skip It	I read this book very carefully because I thought it was a real mystery and I might need the clues in the early part of the book later.  Actually, it did not make any difference as the book did not make any sense.  I have three major problems with this book.  1. It happens too fast.  The love story between Ian and Lacey develops too fast.  The relationship between Susa, the mentor, and Lacey, the student, happens too quick.  Even the remarriage or Rory and his ex-wife happens too fast.  Why does this have to be a speed story?  It only makes it silly.  Adding a few more weeks to story would make it deeper and more interesting. 2. I knew who the mystery artist was from the beginning.  No mystery there.  And when it was finally revealed it made no sense.  He did not seem crazy, or deranged, or obsessed.  So why did he keep his identity secret for 40 years? 3. The ending was a real let down.  Again, we had too many unnecessary characters who did not really add to the story during the book and were not brought back in at the end.  What happened to Shayla, the partner?  The business was totalled.  What happened to the Pickfords when the property was finally divided?  They were family. What happened to Angelique?  She mad a merger in the works. Why did we need to spend time reading about these people if they were not going to make a difference in the story?  And, most importantly, what happens to the mystery artist once he was finally unmasked? <br /> <br />Bottom line... skip it.  Too long... too silly.  And the sex isn't even that hot.  I agree with the reviewer who thinks this may have been a short story that was (unsuccessfully) expanded into a novel simply by adding a few subplots instead of developing the main one.	2005-04-22
US	49973561	R2C2YPXCPZIVNS	0671557106	945627380	Double Take	Books	2	2	2	N	N	Not Worth the Time -  Poor Payoff	I do not know who the people were who reviewed this book and thought it was so great.  I thought it was terrible. I will tell you why I can not recommend Double Take.  It was too long, at least 50 pages of detail on lesser characters, like the housekeeper, could have been omitted.  It had too many characters that only served to cloud the storyline and not enough about the characters, like Cunningham, that actually were key to moving things along.  The author kept changing her mind about who did it.  I figured out the crime involved an identity switch at the scene of the accident, why didn't the police verify the identity of the dead or the living?  There was no need for an East Coast and a West Coast mystery.  I expected some overlap in the characters, some clue in one that clearly pointed back to the other.  I got excited when the West Coast guy owned a painting by the East Coast guy.  But no connection was developed between them. The whole thing seemed choppy and messy to me.   <br /> <br />I hoped for some advancement in the romance of Ariel and Henry, but that was tentative also.  In the end when Henry and his son, Sam, went to South Carolina with Ariel I expected some excitement, but the author skipped the whole thing condensing it to one short paragraph.  And don't get me started on the ending...  maybe someone tore the last few pages from my book because the story just stopped.  I do not recommend this book.	2005-03-30
US	49973561	R27G4G9ZCG81SI	0671899619	680686292	Fast Forward	Books	3	2	4	N	N	Since when is 142 fat???	I can only rate this book an okay.  I read a lot and was put off immediately when I learned it was about memory loss.  Such and old premise for a mystery.  As a woman who weighs 156 and wears glasses (but usually contacts) I was highly offended about her reference of weight as 142 being fat and glasses meaning plain at best, if not ugly.  And the child abuse angle of the father's discipline only added to the sterotype.  Fortunately, she was called Ariel and not Jane.  Plain Jane.  For someone described as so dumpy and boring she seemed to have good male friends and allies.  An inconsistency at best.  I wanted to know more bout the men in her life.  Why bother to introduce them if they were not to be developed?<br /><br />One more thing.  Ariel killed the intruder and seemed to feel no remorse.  That was really strange to me.  No way could I sleep in that house, especially with a loss of memory and a fractured wrist.  And why didn't that make the local news or come to the attention of her colleagues at \\"Open File\\"?  They specialized in unsolved mysteries!<br /><br />This book may have worked better as a supernatural story.  I love sci-fi and could see some kind of mind/body switch between Ariel and Jane.  Or even better, both souls captured in Ariel that were in partnership to solve the crime and improve Ariel's life.  This story had just too many coincidences that the \\"Open File\\" investigative reporters failed to explore.  The same restaurant, the same car, the same night, the physical similarities.  Rework the story a bit with the supernatural angle and it would be a lot better.<br /><br />I am reading Double Take now.  I hope it pulls all the loose ends from Fast Foward together.  Maybe it will explain the title at least.  No sex, no daydreaming about sex, no violence, no bad language.  Rated PG-13.	2005-03-20
US	49973561	R1OVGOD93AV35H	0765309238	601747391	Powersat	Books	3	8	9	N	N	Good, but not not the best of Bova	Ben Bova is such a great near future sci-fi writer.  He never disappoints.  His books are totally credible, both the people and the circumstances.  They are also alive with relevant details that make me believe I am in the environment he has created.  POWERSAT is a little different.  It is not about space exploration or building off world communities.  It is about the dream of one man, Dan, to build a satellite to collect solar power and microwave it to Earth reducing the world's dependency on fossil fuels.  It is also about another man, Asim, who works just as hard to sabotage the power satellite and terrorize the USA.  POWERSAT spends little time in space, Bova jumps right into the story and offers few flashbacks.  Dan needs funding now to keep the project alive.  He knows there are serious strings attached to whichever funding source he chooses.  He tries to make the best choice, but he is so blinded by his commitment to the project that he just messes up.  He is our hero and he is doing what is right, but he bribes government officials and makes deals with shady characters to get the job done.  This is not a book where everything comes out fine in the end.  After everything wraps up there is a need for an epilogue to check on the consequences of some of the choices Dan made.  I was left with the feeling that with the success of the power satellite Dan would become as wealthy and selfish as Asim.  Dan was living too close to the line that separates good and bad.  And he was left with no personal ties to keep him grounded.  The romantic subplot did not work. <br /> <br />If you liked this book and want to read something similar but better (but more R-rated) try RED SKY by Mike Mullane.   <br />	2005-03-11
US	49973561	R3NWXF9HZYRTZC	0446611360	561029068	Point Deception	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A brisk read	I enjoyed this book.  It was a clever mystery that moved along at a brisk pace.  I did not suspect whodunit until almost the end.  And I never guessed the name of the killer.  My only disappointment was that he did not live to tell his part of the story. <br /> <br />I have always wondered what happened to the idealism of the hippies.  Point Deception gives us a tale about a few of the flower children who tried to create their own paradise and failed.  It was sad.  The effect it had on their families and all the people who just barely knew them was sad.  There are no happy people in this book.  No happy scenes, no happy endings.  No character without some guilt.  But there is a promise that life goes on, and that it gets better.  Skip it if you are depressed. Otherwise, it is a good read.  Mild references to sex, drugs, violence, and child abuse.   <br />	2005-03-03
US	49973561	R306CNCZLHJ6FS	0743488539	353820253	Disappearing Act	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Worth geting into	This is basically a very good sci-fi book.  Set off-world in a distant, but familiar, future it is a story about power hungry people illegally trading bio-technology for arms. Those who accidentally unravel the organization are not necessarily motivated by good intentions.  In their own way they plan to benefit from the illegal trade until the moral implications of the corruption disgust even them.  Eventually, the would be good guys mend their selfish ways and overpower the bad guys for a happy ending.  On the way questions are raised about the morality of colonization of new worlds, ethics of applying bio-enhancements to humans, and the acceptability of exposing advanced technology to developing societies.  It had thought provoking moments even though it sometimes read like a coming of age romance. (After all, the lead character was 17 pretending to be 30.) <br /> <br />On the other hand, Disappearing Act was very poorly edited.  The pacing was terrible.  It took me 100 pages to figure out where the story was going. I could not tell if the title referred to one of the main characters, Calandra or Maris; or the political prisoners of Udara. There was too much detail, too much background on lesser characters, too many cultural observations... get on with the story already.  And the names!  I had a terrible time with the names of the characters and the places without a discussion of the meaning of the names.  The last 100 pages was a bit of a \\"hurry up\\" ending.  Details, so painstakingly included in the beginning, were suddenly skipped, and the time line became confusing.   Even so, it was still a good read, a nice starting point for women reading science fiction. <br />	2005-02-28
US	49973561	R2GWIUNO11ZWJQ	0373770154	94284728	True Colors	Books	1	12	14	N	N	The Worst of Palmer	This book should never have been re-released.  It is that bad.  Save your time, money, and vision.  None of the characters are believable or likeable.  Meredith's story might have worked if she made her vengeful return to Billings after 10 or 15 years instead of 6.  I have been in the boardroom of a national corporation and 22 year old mothers do not have the depth and experience to head a domestic division even with an MBA.  Not to mention her unfamiliarity with society and lack of professional allies in this rags to riches story.<br /><br />Cy is totally appalling.  Why would anyone trust him in business or in bed?  And yet our heroine falls for him over and over again.  How stupid.  How could he live with his mother for 30 some years and never ask about his grandmother or his relatives?  How could everyone in town have forgotten who she was if she grew up there?  And what about the mysterious Mr. Smith?  Although called a bodyguard, he acted only as a babysitter.  He could have been interesting.  Wasn't he worth a story line?  He did not even rate a first name.  Unbelievable.  This book was too, painfully long with characters I never cared about.  It was torture to read.  Even the sex was bad.  For people whose attraction was based on mutual passion it just came across as horny sex.  Put this one back in mothballs.  And Diana, do not be afraid to write about a mature woman.  Love and sexual satisfaction can still be a discovery for women over 35.	2005-02-16
US	49973561	R3ABGSZ2TUCZC6	1569011117	878159249	Red Sky: A Novel of Love, Space, & War	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Best astronaut novel ever	Of all the different types of sci-fi and sci-fantasy that I read, this is my favorite kind.  I love sci-fi set in the near future about space exploration and first contact with new worlds.  I love rockets and space shuttles and astronauts in environmental suits.  This book has the realistic sci-fi elements I love plus suspense, espionage, sex, and romance.  Red Sky is primarily a space adventure.  Modern day American astronauts are sent on a secret mission to investigate a Soviet communications platform that may be housing a \\"star wars\\" type weapon.  This weapon was designed to end the cold war, and it will if the Americans don't get to it first. <br /> <br />Red Sky is full of drama as we look behind the scenes into the lives of the astronauts and the motivation that drives them to go higher and faster without perceptible fear.  We spend time with the team that supports them as well as those that command them.  Mullane, a former astronaut, creates a very complete and credible picture of NASA.  He also lets us see inside the break-up of the Soviet Union.  Or at least, one possible reason behind the break-up, the internal scheming, the plotting, the willingness to do anything for power. <br /> <br />Mullane has a good story based on a solid premise.  He writes as if he lived this story, he is comfortable, he knows his business.  (I love the fight in space with screwdrivers and wrenches rather than laser weapons...too cool and probably more realistic.)  I even starting getting into the characters that I did not really like.  I wanted them to change and grow.  I still want to know these people.  I wish Mullane would continue to write and populate his new books with some of these characters say 10, 20, 30 years into the future.  Can Mark continue to be a hero in a desk job?  Did Judy learn to live her own life?  Did Bob and Anna find a way to be together?  Did Mason see new patterns in the sky, an extraterrestrial thing?  And did Maksimov agree to create something for the US?  Tell us Mullane.  Give us another book.   <br /> <br />Sex is very explicit in the context of these complex, adult relationships.  Lots of beer drinking, some violence.  I highly recommend this book for the mature reader. <br />	2005-02-10
US	49973561	RN68LT8J2YWF7	0765309513	955273814	Schism: Part One of Triad (Saga of the Skolian Empire) (Pt. 1)	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Asaro's back on track	This book is a bit different from the more recent entries by Asaro in her Skolian series, better.  For all of us who have not been thrilled by her trend toward sexy romance, Asaro returns to complex sci-fi in Triad.  We learn about the military and the commitment required of cadets at the academy as seen through the experiences of the 17-year old Soz, a novice, whom we already know will be the future leader of the Skolian Empire.  We also begin to understand the personal conflict Soz has with her father over her decision not to marry and stay on her home world, but to pursue a career in the military that will put her in harm's way during the coming war. <br /> <br />This book is not a good place to begin the series.  Triad is a backstory.    (I prefer to start with Primary Inversion.)  Asaro does not publish this series in chronological order.  The books may be about any one of the 15 or so main Rhon characters during three generations at any point in their lives.  If you have read any of the other books in the series you know how the story began in Triad turns out.  Rather, Triad fills in gaps in the Valdorian family saga and helps us understand why they are the way they are.   They do not always behave as I would have expected them to.  After all, they are Rhon and considered royals.  Eldrin is more close-minded.  Soz is more hotheaded.  Kurj is more human.  Althor is more confused.  Shannon is more complex.  In some ways it is very comforting to know that things are going to work out for these people, at least for a while.  I found this book to be much more interesting than I expected.  I cannot wait for the next installment.  I just wish the books had better cover art.  No sex or sexy thoughts in Triad; some general references to bi-sexuality and homosexuality. <br />	2005-02-10
US	49973561	R1NWENGNNC5FFT	0312979983	76852490	Night Pleasures (Dark-Hunter, Book 2)	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	Night Pleasures - Oh Yeah	I am not going to tell you anything about this book, or the ones that follow it in the series.  What I will say is that I love them all. Kenyon creates a world of the dark-hunters that exists within our world.  Her immortals live in our neighborhood and eat at our favorite restaurants and shop in our boutiques.  They are hot, they are fun, and I completely forgot everything but the world of the dark-hunters when reading them. By the end of Chapter 2 I was hooked.  I have now read the entire series.  I suggest you start at the beginning as the characters are connected and reappear in later stories.  They are more interesting if you allow yourself to be pulled in gently.  The first, Fantasy Lover, is the weakest, in my opinion.  In Night Pleasures, Kenyon gets takes a character mentioned in Fantasy Lover and begins building the legend of the dark-hunters.  Each book gets better as another character pulled from an earlier book is developed.  This is no \\"read one and you have read them all\\" series.  Each book is different, even when the characters overlap each others stories they only add to the community of the unusual.  Of course I am a big Buffy fan, and I love Duncan MacLeod, so I am ripe for this kind of mystery/adventure.    Action, adventure, sexy, but all in balance.  Action - they physically fight the bad guys.  Adventure - he has lived over 2000 years.  Sexy - but only with his soul mate.  And balance, in true romance tradition there is a happy ending. Night Pleasures was a pleasure to read at any time.	2005-02-10
US	49973561	R11FRN50N7QDU7	0892967811	256182121	Cyanide Wells	Books	2	5	5	N	N	Not a great start	This is my first Muller book and it was not a great start.  I was engaged at first and read rapidly making mental notes of the characters and locales so I could absorb the details and emerse myself in the story.  Halfway through the book it occurred to me that things were not coming together.  The secondary characters never moved to the forefront.  But most disappointing was the ending.  The book just stopped.  There was not a final wrap-up where the police and the surviving characters reflect on the past or project the future.  This is not a spoiler, but be aware that it is never explained why Ardis acted like she does.  She has no personality beyond the way Carly, her lesbian partner, and Matt, her ex-husband, see her.  Even her daughter has remarkably little to say about her.  The book would have been so much better if the focus had been the complex Gwen/Ardis and included her thoughts and point of view.  Why was she so restless and uncomfortable to the point that she rearranged the lives of other people?  What made Ardis so endearing that others wanted to protect and keep her - except her parents?  Was it her sexual orientation, her sexual confusion, or, as I suspect, did sex have nothing to do with it?   <br /> <br />What was the deal with the mayor and the developer about the gold?  That subplot was never fully developed and not resolved, and in the end the fate of the property was not discussed.  It made no sense and added nothing to the story, although it could it could have if done differently. What was the point of the focus on the gay couple?  I thought the book was going to be about gays and pro-gay life, but I got little insight into the lives of rich gay couples and their children.  Whatever sensitivity the character Ardis brought to her articles about gays was certainly missing from Muller's book.   <br /> <br />In conclusion, I would have to say that this book was like the character Matt, spying on Ardis and Carly through the lens of his camemra.  Wesaw bits and pieces of various characters lives, stepped in and then out, but without knowledge and understanding.  Hollow observation.  Shallow read.  Provocative only if you have a vivid imagination.	2005-01-28
US	49973561	R3EVWHF0VI8HNR	0375411089	718882852	Skinny Dip	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Worth the Hype	Okay, I will admit that I sometimes avoid the hot best-sellers just because.  Just because a writer is popular does not mean he is always good.  We all know how difficult it is to stay fresh.  I recently got around to reading a borrowed copy of Skinny Dip and I loved it.  Strange, romantic, mysterious, a green novel.  No disappointment.  It is a tight story that speeds through the waterways of South Florida sampling this and that along the way.  I highly recommend this book for a relaxing and fun read that will give you something to think about.  Like who ever heard of a crooked biologist who detests nature?  And, wow, I am not the only person who hates the cultivated excess of cruises. <br />         <br />I also wanted to know what happened to Mick, the character from Skin Tight.  I liked this Mick much better and was happy with the way he has mellowed with age. He is still strong and sexy, but less scary.  I hope he shows up again as a secondary character in some future novel.  I like the idea of looking in on him every ten years or so and letting his complex personality unfold.	2004-10-18
US	49973561	RG5QMUI6KEFVD	0446611514	309570895	Skin Tight	Books	3	4	8	N	N	This book is scary	I did not like this book.  Too complex to be fun.  Unexpectedly bloody.  Could have been sexier just to lighten things up.  It is not as smooth as Hiaaen's more recent novels.  The book itself is an excess.  Too many characters that hang around too long, some should never have been introduced as they served no real purpose and got dropped later, like Al the Cuban detective.  And there were too many strange and mysterious deaths of people who were guilty but did not, in my opinion, deserve to be killed like George.  Mick may not be a killer, but he was certainly an accessory as things got more and more out of control. I thought that whole story line with the rezoning for the apartment building was unnecessary.  Skin Tight would have benefited by focusing more attention on the clinic and its patients and doctors.  Oh well. Not great, but still good.	2004-10-18
US	49973561	R1NDURAIIVKTZB	0821770837	414425774	Cold Day In July	Books	1	3	3	N	N	Don't Waste Your Time	This is the worse book I have read in a very long time, and I read a lot.  It was a tease starting out with several interesting characters that were never developed.  No character was truly likable because there was not enough information offered to make them 3-dimensional. Gaps and blunders abound.  For example:  Why did people hate Marc?  How could Reb go from cold to hot so fast? What happened to Amy?  Who was Bonnie Blue?  What was the deal with the photograph?  Why did Oribel think she was Cyrus' proctector?  And the biggest blunder of all... what made the publishers think this novel was finished?	2004-07-16
US	49973561	R33S2Y9UQQ7O1Y	0345371976	287424490	The World at the End of Time	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Worth Every Word	This is a great book and I loved it.  It is not easy to get into and I admit, I skipped parts that got too technical.  At times I thought I would never make it to the end.  And several times when reading about Wan-to and the other beings I thought \\"so what?\\". But the end of this book is worth every word.  It comes together.  After all the sadness it ends with such hope and optimism that I just wanted to cry for joy.  Life goes on.  Human beings go on.  Intelligence and hard work do prevail.  <BR>        <BR>Reading this book today it seems as fresh as the day it was written.  In describing the colonist squabble over religion Pohl even addresses the differences between the Sunnis and Shiities.  In the beginning population growth is welcomed in the colony and women are encouraged to have babies by multiple partners. At another time when the population is forced underground growth is discouraged, even considered a crime. Four thousand years later, genetically perfect babies are created in the laboratory and delivered to their parents.  Pohl anticipates gay partners raising hetrosexual children, and computer-delivered school lessons. He describes a shift from science as the preferred field of study to exhaultation of dance and the arts. Viktor (our everyman hero) is frozen and thawed 4 times in 4500 years.  Each time a lot has happened to the human race.  But through all this, humans survive and retain knowledge and civilization.  The book comes full circle.  It starts with the colonization of Newmanhome, and it ends with it.  I love this book.  I consider it one of the best books I ever read.  I highly recommed it to anyone who loves science fiction and is worried about the future.  Viktor will tell you whether you know what will happen, or understand what has happened, life goes on and it is worth living.	2004-06-01
US	49973561	R2WKAU2YQB2S1K	0671034057	562966780	Now You See Her	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Could have been great	About three fourths of the way through this book I realized it was not going to end well.  There was just too much going on for everything to be tied up by page 325.  Sure enough, I felt someone had torn the last 50 pages out of my copy.  Of course, if it had not been a good story I would not have cared.  But it was a good story, and different.  I was caught up in it. I wanted all the ends tied up, all the mysteries solved.  Unfortunately, the epilogue added nothing to the story.  Was there a scandal?  What happened to the senator?  Most of all, what happened to Sweeney's gift?  Was it lasting, could she help people before they died?  Or was her gift to help solve the crime?  Since she could see and talk to dead people why didn't she ask them why they were ghosts? What happened to her health?  And what is the meaning of the title?  I wanted more from the epilogue.  Maybe Linda H. will revisit Sweeney in the future.  P.S.  I liked the romance between Sweeney and Richard. (...)	2004-05-05
US	49973561	RQLUIXICGL6VD	1551668238	395915009	Tell Me No Lies	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Better than the Title	I was put off by the title of this book, I guess Trust No One was taken.  And I had to overlook the cover notes that said it was about Chinese art.  I know nothing about the Chinese and thought I would get lost in a book about an ex-CIA operative in Asia. I was wrong.  Before I completed the book I had spent happy hours on the internet looking for information on the art described in the novel and photos of the charioteer.  Of course, a few years have passed since the book was written and the art is more accessable now, but for 20 years almost no one outside China saw these incredible bronze works.  I learned a lot.<br />Aside from the intrique this book is hot.  Lowell works the familar formula of ex-CIA undercover guy hero in a way that is credible. And Lindsay, our heroine, is not a virgin or 20 years old.  She is an independent woman with a life of her own.  She and our hero do not fall into bed the first night, it takes them weeks to determine what they want.  The are partners, they are forced to live together, eat together, and have conversations. Doing the job they get to know each other, and eventually they deliberately consumate their relationship. <br />I recommend this book as the best I have read by Lowell and one of the best by any romance writer.  Romance/suspense novels are uneven.  I have yet to find a consistent writer who satisfies in everytime.  I doubt that I will. This book has an unusual balance that is a surprise.  I loved it.	2004-04-30
US	49973561	R3DQKH9ZEDURCQ	0821773127	840281360	Guilty Pleasures (Zebra Encore)	Books	1	1	1	N	N	Dumb and Dumber	I generally like Stella Cameron, but I would not recommend this book to anyone.  Yes, it is that bad.  How it got past an editorial review is amazing to me.  There gaps in the story as big as the Pacific Ocean.  The setting of a national children's television show for these misfits is in poor taste. Too many villians, too many plot twists, too many characters to develop, too much weird sex, just too much of everything except a good story.  And the conclusion was a total letdown.  If a drug lord sent the bad guys, why wouldn't he send some more?  It took great effort for me to suspend logic and complete this book.  Reading a romantic thriller should be fun and exciting, not a chore.  I would have had more fun cleaning out the refrigerator.	2004-04-16
US	49973561	R3QCVN8YFUJ79N	0671524208	651219221	Deep Waters	Books	4	5	6	N	N	No complaints	I found this book to be very satisfying.  It worked for me.  One of the things I like about Krentz is that her characters are older and wiser. This story has humor and wit and wisdom. The characters have self-doubt and really seem to question what they want to do with the rest of their lives.  Deep Waters is a feel good book that makes you think about your own life.  Most romance thrillers do not relate to my life in any way. This book is not only entertaining, it is involving. The murder mystery plot is not nearly as important as the personal struggle Charity and Elias experience in trying to find peace and balance in their lives.  It is not surprising that they find it together in the end, they take their time and build a mature relationship with layers (and good sex).  Isn't that what romance is all about?	2004-02-23
US	49973561	R26HBU2P1NTSQP	0743245520	976518630	Hello, Darkness (Brown, Sandra)	Books	4	3	5	N	N	Ever more complex	Sandra Brown is evolving as a writer, and I love her for it. Each new title is a little deeper, a little more complex, a little less romance.  I cannot resist her novels, so far Envy is my favorite.  Hello, Darkness is a step in a new direction.  I am not sure if the title refers to the book itself, or the new direction for Brown.  This story is a darker than her previous novels.  All her villians seem to be a bit crazy, but this story combines people and problems in a rather ordinary surburban setting.  The result is a very unpleasant read at times, but so is the newspaper.  Not for the squeamish or the romance reader, this book leans heavily toward crime thriller with the police trying to analyze the evidence and beat the clock to catch the criminal.  The steamy sex scenes we like from Ms. Brown are missing, and would be be out of place in this story of sexual predators and teen-age sexual addicts.  The fact that Paris and Dean even try to do it is creepy under the circumstances.  In the end they do not save the world, just a small piece of it.  Rather they alert us to new possible dangers and the importance of sticking together, the importance of family.	2004-02-23
US	49973561	R192JPGL97H5OL	0671523104	527293314	Sharp Edges	Books	3	2	4	N	N	Not one of my favorites	This book could have been better, tighter, but it wasn't.  The ending was especially disappointing.The main characters, Eugenia and Cyrus were too different and I never believed their relationship was more than sexual companionship and a limited business partnership.  For a director, she seemed way too impulsive and irrational.  For an owner of a multi-office investigation company Cyrus seemed too much on a one-man unit.  I liked the idea of them living together in the end, giving themselves more time, but I did not need a marriage to tie up the story.  I wanted the relationship to simmer a bit longer before they made a lifelong commitment.  <BR>        I love art and antiquities which is one of the reasons I like Krentz as she often uses art and antiquities in her plots.  I have seen ancient Roman glass.  I was very upset that Krentz did not share Eugenia's reaction when she saw the actual Hades cup.  Where was that moment of excitement when she saw the real thing and knew what Cyrus has said about its beauty was true?  What about the sparks when Eugenia and Cyrus looked at the cup together?  We do not even know how the cup got from the condo to the museum?  And what was Tabitha's initial reaction when she learned of the cup?  When she learned of their romance?  And who was Damien really? Honestly, Krentz could have cut out Rhonda and Joshua (who cares about them anyway?) and spent more time developing Eugenia and Cyrus. This book seemed to be rushed at the end, I agree with another reviewer who suggested Ms. Krentz slow down and give us a complete and satisfying story.	2004-02-23
US	49973561	RXXTG1IDDA6PJ	0553577395	226253577	Starfire (Bantam Spectra)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Sheffield, give us more!	This book was one of the most frustrating books I have ever read and enjoyed.  Since I did not read Aftermath, it took me a while to get into the story and understand the characters.  Sheffield offers too many charachers and it is quite a challenge to determine who is going to be key and who is forgettable.  However, by the time I got to the middle of the book I was hooked.  I read until 4 AM and had bloodshot eyes and a crick in my neck.  But then I got to the end, and hence my frustration, and my criticism.<BR>       1. In a hurry, skip &quot;the private diary of Oliver Guest&quot;.  The Sky City murders were a completely separate story.  It seemed they existed simply to reprise a favorite character, but there was no real tie in to the Alpha C story.  The motive did not support the crime.  The crime did not make any difference to the future of Sky City.  The criminal was not publically unmasked so the community was not satisfied.  This subplot may have been better resolved in its own book.        <BR>       2. The main story seemed oddly incomplete. I like a story that is character driven, but I want complete characters.  I do not want to wait on a sequel, I want to know now.  What happens to the Argos Group?  What was Gordy's legacy?  Was Nick redeemed?  Was Seth redeemed?  Did Maddy and John ever hold hands?  What happened to other countries and the other world leaders?  And who are those people pictured on the book cover?<BR>       I have read other novels by Sheffield and this is not the first time that I thought he just stopped writing when the main plot was solved.  I would like a little bit more.  I need an upbeat ending that is both positive for science and positive for people.	2004-01-26
US	49973561	R3B6W0JWG3L3OT	0765306387	985672561	Skyfall (Saga of the Skolian Empire)	Books	4	9	10	N	Y	Lusty Romance in the Future Past	Catherine Asaro cannot make up her mind.  I am sure from her point of view it keeps her from being bored.  I prefer the science fiction side of her writing, but I admit, I liked this romance.  It filled in some past/future gaps in the ongoing Skolian story and, unlike The Radiant Seas, was an easy read.  But still the characters did not always ring true to themselves as described in other novels, especially Eldri. I had a hard time believing him to be so impulsive and hot-headed as a young man.  The character's edges were not as hard and sharp as they were in Primary Inversion.  The intensity of the Rhon connection that I felt with other Asaro lovers like Soz and Jai, Vryl and Kamoj, or Althor and Tina, was missing.  This story is tamer.  If this is your first time with Catherine Asaro's Skolian Sagas it is a sweeter, softer place to start.  But my personal favorite will always be Primary Inversion.  Forget having babies, I love it when the Skolian women kick ....	2003-11-08
US	49973561	R26F2L6IS6VWQB	0446527041	487696263	The Crush	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Another good read	Sandra Brown does not disappoint.  I have no regrets when it comes to reading one of her suspense novels.  I like the way she writes.  This book was better than I expected because the liner notes were too brief and a bit misleading.  I thought it more in the vein of Envy with a secret (the real truth about the shooting in the den), and a controversial act to catch the bad guy that makes you want to read a follow-up by Scott Turow. I like the way Sandra Brown gives you the story from several characters point of view, but I thought there were a few loose ends like the scorpions...  Not as .... or crude as some of her novels, more romantic, which is better.	2003-11-08
US	49973561	R10Q8O7J6Z75GM	B0000AA9JI	118908960	Envy	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Could not put it down	I admit it.  I love Sandra Brown's suspense novels.  I love the mystery and I love the romance. This book grabbed me from the beginning and I could not put it down.  But that does not mean it is a fast read.  I read it slow, paging backwards trying to fit the pieces together of the book within the book.  When I finally got to the end I started over and reread the book.  <br />I like the longer novels that take their time to unfold.  All the main characters in ENVY were interesting.  It was well worth the time it took to develop a character like Nadia and her motives.  She was just too cool and calculating---one of my favorites.  The other was Mike.  I want a Mike, a loyal and true friend, a mentor who believes in me, and a great cook!<br />My only caution is that romance/suspense is not for everyone.  It is entertaining and provacative and sexy.  It is not a case study in personality disorders so don't get too psychological.	2003-09-07
US	49973561	R1VICS6JU1UUJA	0060198761	565304598	Running Scared	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Interesting peek into the world of gold	This was a good book with several significant flaws, but it is still a great read.  I recommend it if you want to escape to a world of money and wealth and power and handsome, smart, lucky people; vs not handsome, not smart, unlucky people.  These characters are pretty much formula, but the story of the gold is very interesting.  Tracing the history of the Celtic gold was facinating.  I also liked the fact that the thieves were ignorant to the value of what they had and what they could do with it.  This was the strength of the story, how the gold changed hands and how it effected the lives of those who touched it before it finally ended up in the collection. <br />The Risa and Shane romance never grabbed me.  First of all, neither of them were developed as real characters.  And the way they consumated their relationship was not credible, it was cheap.  It was not an appropriate moment for lust.  The fact that they rushed into marriage made it even less credible.  But, that aside, I loved the story about the gold and the greed and the obsession.  I recommend this book as a good read for a rainy weekend.  It will have your eyes glowing for the gold.	2003-09-07
US	49973561	RQA4N3JWB7JX4	0446609943	213222268	The Switch	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A delightful discovery	This summer I discovered Sandra Brown, and I have had great fun since.  I discovered I like the romantic suspense novel.  I always go into a book with a blank mind, I have no preconceptions, I read to be entertained.  Sandra Brown is one of the best. I have now read two of her other novels and am willing to read more.  She does not inhabit just one of her characters, she seems to step inside two or three of them.  No one is all bad or all good.  In this novel each twin has flaws.  Ms. Brown gives you reasons to prefer one to the other.  But Chief is the same way, not your typical good guy hero.  I recommend this book.  It does have a [physical]interlude, but it unfolds in flashbacks and is not overwhelming.	2003-09-06
US	49973561	R175AGUBTSS8JK	0060088575	639330252	Solitaire	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Something different to think about	This book is different.  But it details life in the near future as if it is ordinary and everyone understands exactly what and how things came to be.  There are no retrospective explanations, about the origins of EarthGov, the rise of Ko Corporation, or the Nations of North America.  They simply are.  Our hero, and she is a hero, has a love relationship with another woman which is presented in a perfectly ordinary tone.  The sex of one's partner is not the issue, just their commitment to each other.  Solitaire is a book about one person's journey to realize her destiny, and we only see it through her. Ultimately, her personal choices will effect many, many people.<br />A difficult read, this book is fresh and new and a bit familar at the same time.  The use of the VR technology for virtual confinment of long-term prisoners was inventive.  The technology described a la Total Recall, is a way to make people experience time in a good or bad environment without going anywhere.  It takes three-fourths of the book to get through the crime and punishment experienced by Jackal.  The real story is in the aftermath, the coming to terms with life after 6 years being totally alone with absolutely no human contact, no human sounds, no pictures, nothing.  I was challenged and haunted by this story.  This is not a read for the beach in August.  It was intense and absorbing and complete.  This one is a keeper to return to again and again.	2003-07-20
US	49973561	R1K10B1OWZ1V5I	0821769308	501369638	Tell Me Why	Books	3	4	4	N	N	A Fifties Point of View	In an era of torrid romance, this story is a cool throw-back to the style of the 1950's.  Lots of drama.  Lots of trama.  Emotionally scarred characters from early childhood and youth events try to cope as adults.  However, by today's standards, divorce, infidelity, betrayal, and guilt are old stuff.  Even our main character, Carolee, has an old-fashioned name.  She is dramatically guilty because she loves her successful career and business travels and is often away from home.  Her husband claims to be neglected and divorces her, keeps the child and gets support from Carolee.  Not news in 2003.  You get the feeling this book was updated from one of Stella's earlier manuscripts. This book is nothing like Glass Houses which was overstuffed with mystery, suspense, murder, and romance on two continents.  Tell Me Why is much more provincial.<br />I still recommend this book as a light read on a summer afternoon when you just want to relax and not think about it. Yes, it is inconsistent (was his name Tom or Ted?) but it's okay, he is not one of the main characters anyway.  Not much sex, but lots of longing.  Mostly, it is about characters in their 30s dealing with growing up and trying to become responsible adults.  Alas, all are not successful.	2003-07-13
US	49973561	R16W73DJMM21VZ	0441009743	474224829	Coyote: A Novel of Interstellar Exploration	Books	4	1	3	N	N	So what happens next?	This is a great book, an exciting adventure, and very political.  However, it is not finished.  It is easy to get caught up in the story of a small group of space pioneers trying to build a new life on Coyote, but because it is told in vignettes there is little cohesion.  Characters appear, tell a bit of their story in journal format, and disappear. It is like a game, who will survive?  Not that they all die, their storyline is simply dropped.  At some point I no longer tried to remember their names or roles in the society.  Time crawls by, and then it jumps in years.  But I kept reading and enjoying the adventure.  The book is a circle.  When I got to the end I realized I was back at the beginning.  These people want to be free from any political structure but their own.   So I need to read the second book, the continuation of the story.  So far there is none. I am left without answers to my questions.  Was there another civilization on Coyote?  Are those other creatures primitive man or Ewoks?  Do they have a governement?  What happens when the medicine runs out? What happened to the other spaceships?  What is the legacy of the next generation?  If Coyote gets crowded will they flee to yet another planet?  Or will they want to become part of the larger group their parents chose to shun?  I need more!	2003-07-09
US	49973561	RTEEBECU5PI21	0399146695	40814111	Lost and Found	Books	4	5	6	N	N	My kind of hero - a mature man	This book is a mystery, yes, but it is also playful and cheeky.  The subject of the mystery was different, and as I know little about antiques I actually learned that it is a very complex international business.  What I loved about this story is the man.  Mack, our hero, is the man I want to meet.  He takes care of his woman, and her family, and his family.  Most times the men are coaxed into the relationship, dragged into the family, but not Mack.  He boldly walks right in. He is a mature man with a grown daughter, so why should he act like a confused kid?  Nicely done. Cady is no weak woman either. She knows she needs a partner, first professionally, then personally.  I liked the way they worked together.  <br />Now, about the ending.  The mystery wraps up very nicely and quite credibly.  It all made sense to me.  But the love story had an epilogue that was a bit too sweet. I like a happy ending, but once again I had the feeling the author was compelled to give us a peek into their future in this book instead of writing another one.  Mack and Cady could be Nick and Nora.  There could have been at least two more books about this couple with their unique talents and genius friends.  What about it, Jayne?	2003-06-16
US	49973561	RDF8CCQPB2KYQ	0399147128	900032230	The Villa	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Angry at the ending	I have read Nora Roberts before and this book was fun and exciting, until I got close to the ending.  The number of pages remaining told me that I was going to be disappointed.  There simply was not enough space to end the story satisfactorily.  The exciting romance between David and Pilar ceased to be discussed after she accepted his proposal, and that was a let down because, as a mature woman, I loved their story.  I identified with Pilar's concern about her body and their quest for privacy from the eyes of the family.  I know that feeling.<br />In the end there was the mystery and how the other villians fit in.  Or didn't fit.  And what about the crime and punishment?  I found that very unsetting. What a tremendous amount of guilt must come with the knowledge of not making public the true killer, even if she was a victim.  And just how much damage was done to the winery?  This book was not a waste of my time, but it certainly was a disappointment at the end.  I felt like the author just wanted to be done with it. Too bad for us. A few more pages and a good editor would have made all the difference.	2003-06-11
US	49973561	R2Y378E0POTX67	0441009778	673832066	Guardian	Books	2	7	12	N	N	Leave this one at the beach house	I have not read Joe Haldeman before and if this is an example I will definitely pass the next time someone offers me one of his books.  Okay, I thought the book was science fiction. I was reading it expecting a life changing first contact novel. Instead, I got a travelogue of Americana circa 1890. The first part of the book was written like a travel journal but the only character is Rosa.  We only experience what she experiences even though there are other characters in the story.  We do not learn very much about them. We only see what Rosa shows us, which is usually scenery. It did not take long before I was bored out of my mind.<br />This book was very unsatisfying. Alas, the one redeeming quality about this novel is that it is short.	2003-04-12
US	49973561	RPVD70Q60A8R8	1567409423	878532332	Beautiful Dreamer	Books	3	4	5	N	N	langhorne	I enjoyed this book very much.  Still new to romance novels I have trouble witht he abrupt endings.  I want more than happily ever after.  I have been married for 16 years and the trouble did not start until we were married 2 years, that is when the marriage was challenged. I love the stories of people coming together, fighting their emotions, reasoning with themselves, and finally giving in to what works for them.  In Beautiful Dreamer they are well matched and beautifully painted against the backdrop of Nevada.  I could see it, I could feel it, I could almost smell it. My only regret is we will never know if it lasted.  After all...Brother -of-the-Wind...	2003-02-10
US	49973561	R1ST601MD22JCW	0515130389	573580919	Carolina Moon	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Tantalyzing Read	I had the pleasure of visiting South Carolina last summer which put me in the mood to read this book.  There is something hauntingly beautiful about the area that fits the mood of the story very well.  It is a mystery/romance, and so much of the book is itself unexplained and makes no sense.  But it is a story well told that unfolds slowly and rewards you with a satisfying, if incomplete, ending.  I liked this book.  I liked these characters.  I wanted to know more about them.  I wanted all my questions answered, all the loose ends tied up.  Alas, that was not the case.  It was still a good story and I will probably reread it two or three times before my next vacation.  Disturbing violent theme but not graphic.  Exciting sex but not graphic.  Some exploration of what makes a a family of adults function.  Happy ending.	2003-01-14
US	49973561	R3GL83TL7PL5V	082176828X	264021781	What You Wish For	Books	2	0	1	N	N	Be careful	I am not familiar with the abused wife syndrome.  It was chilling to read about what Helen was going through with her husband when he attacked her.  It was heartbreaking to read how she felt worthless, and he felt justified.  But the story around them did not hold up.  Interesting, but not plausible.  All the pieces fit together too neatly, and the ending was just a fairy tale.  (Poor girl inherits millions and makes up with her estranged mother.) The characters' relationships with each other were not clearly explored.  We understood why Helen's benefactor loved animals, but we had no clue why she befriended battered women.  And Helen's decisions when trying to flee her husband are just plain stupid.  I like stories with happy endings, but I want them to be believable. This book was a good read, but the ending was just too tidy.  By the way, I lived in NJ for many years and it almost never snows before Christmas.	2002-11-09
US	49973561	R18V0YVV2UTQ41	0060198753	398144595	Moving Target	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Better than expected	What a surprise.  This was a good book and an exciting read.  I liked it very much and would recommend it to someone who wanted a romantic romance with a mystery subplot.  Too often they seem to be sex laden stories with almost no plot. But Lowell can write.  This story had fleshed out characters, a layered series of subplots, and a mystical historical connection between the two main characters.  I overlooked the gaps in reality and enjoyed the ride.  Let's have more like this from Ms. Lowell.	2002-09-21
US	49973561	R3RCW6OFNHPR5X	0525946594	950448212	The Best Is Yet to Come	Books	3	2	4	N	N	Like, when?	The book was okay.  I read it with excitement.  But ultimately, I was disappointed.  The best never came.  It is like the author got tired around page 225 and decided to end it as quickly as possible.  Carolina, the main character, must have had her head in a flower basket not too see all the things going on around her. Things get really bad.  Then, all of a sudden, things are explained and tied up quickly with a big ribbon like a fairy tale.  If you want only the happiest of endings read this book.<br />P.S.  I did learn a lot about flowers and decorating and haute whatever.	2002-09-21
US	49973561	RY3XG8F0D6G3U	0380977621	823966926	The Watch	Books	4	6	6	N	N	A Dream Deferred...	I happened to be reading this book as I traveled to the SC coast on vacation.  I was intrigued as I passed through Richmond, VA, the location of this novel.  As I Black woman I do not often have the opportunity to talk with Southern Whites about their attitudes toward the Civil War and the traitors they still revere as heroes.  On the few occasions that I have had that conversation it seemed so strange to me that they have such passion about a war that happened generations before they were born.  And it is not just Richmond, remember my destination was SC via NC.  Reading this book told me that I was not alone in thinking the South of 2002 is still confused about who won the Civil War and why.  I really wanted those who romanticize the Ante-Bellum South to come face-to-face with the reality of its Peculiar Institution and economic structure.  All through the book I was getting ready for the confrontation that I was ultimately denied.  Danvers provided the best of science fiction; the re-examination of our history from a future perspective, with the possibility of an alternate--a better--ending.  I was challenged to think of what that alternate ending could be since Danvers denied me the pleasure of providing one.  This book is rich, textured with characters that are deep and complex.  The reader may need a notecard to keep from getting lost, but it is well worth the effort to make it through the wordiness.  No sex or violence.  Best if you are a history buff or student of Americana.	2002-08-30
US	49973561	RT6CX63PALEVB	044100900X	301706376	Jenna Starborn	Books	3	2	4	N	N	A pleasant surprise	I was prepared not to like this book.  I have often wanted to rewrite someone else's book and add a few things that appealed to me.  That is what I expected to get in Jenna Starborn, a retelling of an old classic in the future.  Actually, that is what I got, but the retelling was delightful.  I actually enjoyed it.  However, the book is not without flaws.  This is much more a romance novel than science-fiction.  We are given little information about Jenna's universe.  Time seems inconsistent, as well as travel, banking, and communication.  As a sci-fi fan, I had to put aside my questions and concentrate on the story of Jenna herself.  It was a good solid read, a love story with no racy, titilating moments.  Jenna and Everett have a deep, somewhat religious, respect for one another.  That, in itself, is refreshing.	2002-08-05
US	49973561	R3L86DCS4J07RM	0553213105	503057596	Pride and Prejudice (Bantam Classics)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Still a favorite	This book was not on any of my school reading lists so I did not come across it until I was almost 30.  I am now 50 and have probably read it 10 times and seen every version of it on film...twice.  It is a becutiful story of women and human nature.  I have never had a problem seeing the Bennetts as my contemporaries. Anyone who reads this book will immediately recognize these characters and their situations.  Women may be more independent today, but there are still women who seek marriages simply to validate themselves or their lifestyles. Not only have I enjoyed this book, I have learned from it.  I highly recommend it.	2002-08-05
US	49973561	R1986V6JFK6KAM	0812544609	761825448	The Ganymede Club	Books	3	3	5	N	N	Sheffield is tough, but I'm tougher.	This is a good book and an easy read.  And I did enjoy it.  But I want more.  I was not as challended by this book as I could have been. I love stories about colonization and terraforming without aliens and this book is in that category.  About halfway into it you are feeling great and reading standing up, and then you get to the second half.  I was really excited as I already read Cold as Ice and was anxious to learn about the origin of Sheffield's universe.  This book did that but not much more.  Not only are the dates hard to fathom, the ages are too.  Is there an event that stimulates scientific development at such a rapid pace? At 16, Bat is much too young to be so eccentric.  The source of his knowledge, his income, even his culinary skills are not explained.  I wanted to know more about how the Bat became the Bat. <BR>      That aside.  It is a good read but not exceptional. Some exciting moments. A nice book for summer that gives you somthing to think about, as the question is just how long is living forever and would you really want to. And the ethical question does not seem to come up when talking about your brain living forever. What is the big mystery plot of the Ganymede Club? It is not addressed until the very end and then it is not complete. Who are the other members?  Should we be looking for them in a future Sheffield series? And why is it so hard to find Helene since they took out a lease on it?  Were the records lost in the Great War?  Have Bat find them.  And just who was that girl on Mars? There are too many gaps in the story.  But it is still an enjoyable read. A few mild sexual references, some violence, no profanity.	2002-07-31
US	49973561	R1C6OXQEUVBRZ3	006621274X	30147767	Eden Burning: A Classic Love Story	Books	2	8	9	N	N	Sexual healing	I expected a love story, a romance.  If there was any doubt in my mind it was confirmed by the ending which was all about sex.  I have only read one other book by Lowell so I am not a particular fan of hers or the genre.  This book was not that bad. I was particulary moved by the misunderstanding in the middle of the book. But from that point on the book lost all credibility. Nicole never held Chase accountable for his rudeness.  And later she did not challenge him on his assumptions about her motives.  No way would I forgive someone without having that conversation!  <BR>The only other gap I will point to in the story is the absense of the other characters toward the end of the book.  I think Lowell could have done a better job of developing some of the other adult characters and making them a part of the story.  What about Jan?  She is such a great person but she does not have a line past the first chapter.  And Dane.  Give us some of the conversation between he and his brother at the end. Okay, one more gap... how does Chase know how to drum for Tahitian dance?  I thought he was from Hawaii but later it seems he is not.  Oh well.  It is not a mystery novel, it is a romance.  Boy gets girl - boy loses girl - boy gets girl back.  I just wish Lowell had ended the book with Nicole's clothes on.  Nicole said she did not want to be a man's \\"thing\\" yet in the last scene she is naked in the lap of a fully clothed man. Duh?	2002-07-31
US	49973561	R1MH5LZS06RFJC	1551669048	943477818	Warrior (MacKenzie-Blackthorn, Book 5)	Books	2	5	15	N	N	Romance is not my genre	I love science fiction.  In the past few years I have especially enjoyed Catherine Asaro's novels.  Since quite a few people label her a romance writer rather than a sci-fi writer, I thought I would try reading a romance novel and see if I liked it as much.  Warrior came highly recommended so I got a copy and sat down to enjoy a good book.  I read it in less than 2 days.  Not because it was so good but because it was so shallow.  I apologize to all of you who love Ms. Lowell and this series, but I need more of a plot.  This book was like a few chapters of a larger novel.  I kept waiting for the mission - an adventure -  that is bigger than just the two characters.  It never happened.  Whatever was tormenting Nevada is not explored in this book, not even in flashbacks.  He seems a skilled rancher, not a warrior.  There is only one fight, and it is in a bar with drunks.  I need a struggle to effect mankind, not just one cougar. It would have been good to take the story back to the ranch and have some interaction between Nevada and his family about Eden, or about the research grant, or about going to Alaska.  The book just needed more. <br />If you ever get bored with characters liked Nevada and Eden, try Asaro's The Veiled Web.  Lucia and Rashid share both a love and an adventure.  Not as much sex, but a lot more love.	2002-07-13
US	49973561	R1SVICH16HUO2C	0812511638	752852000	Cold As Ice	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Great read for a long weekend.	I had never read Sheffield before and I liked this book. I am a fan of near furture science fiction and this fits that category.  The locations, in our solar system, are familiar.  People are still people, (no aliens) and the Great War has left enough of Earth for people to rebuild.  The story developes the characters in parallel so for half the book you do not know which one is key or where you are going.  Things converge nicely in the second half and all ends well.  It was a good, exciting read.  Some romance, no sexual descriptions, no violence.  Fair amount of techno-speak and scientific explanations, sounds feasible to me even if the timeline is ambitious.<br />I did think the ending was a bit too tidy and I look forward to the sequel to learn more about these characters and their mission.  Actually, I have read the sequel and it is the same universe but not the same characters.  Too bad, it would be nice if Sheffield could link both stories all in yet another novel.	2002-07-11
US	49973561	R2H4WY3NHSG4A8	0312876343	370216473	Dark as Day (Cold As Ice Book 2)	Books	3	10	10	N	N	A treat for Bat Fans	After reading Cold as Ice I was disappointed by this book.  Dark as Day is longer and had more characters, which is not necessarily a good thing.  Most of the characters are not fully developed or introduced and then dropped along the way.  The parallel storylines do converge at the end, but it is incomplete and sloppy.   <br />The glue that holds the book together is the Great Bat.  In all my literary tours of the universe I have never encountered a character like him.  He prefers to be totally alone to think and study and solve puzzles.  He does not wash, he does not dress, he does not travel; he eats and he thinks.  Facinating.  It is The Bat who finds the clues in the historic documents and puts everything together.  Therefore, it is not until you get to the chapters featuring The Bat that the story gets exciting.  <br />Science fiction is supposed to pose some interesting concepts for better living through technology and this book is no exception.  There are people with enhanced bodies who stay forever young and healthly, but cannot reproduce.  There is the predictive model that indicates all life in the Solar System will cease to exist unless the modifying variable is identified and controlled.  There is the alien transmission that no one is able to decode that could be the variable.  Each of these would make an exciting story, but they are not fully developed or explored.  The story is ultimately about The Bat, his interaction with three computer systems, and his brilliant ability to think through complex problems that others cannot.  If you are a fan of The Bat from other Sheffield novels, this is the book for you and I would rate it 4 stars.  If The Bat does not do it for you, this is a pleasant read, but nothing to get excited about.  No violence, some sexual descriptions, romance, some profanity.	2002-07-11
US	49973561	RQ980H6O28XOS	0312283423	82923820	Saucer	Books	4	2	4	N	N	Not for the serious	Did you ever wish you had your own flying saucer, and nobody else had one like it?  What would you do?  How about buzz a baseball field?  Take your favorite uncle for a ride into space?  Pose for pictures for the locals?<br />Most of the people who read and enjoyed this book seemed to understand that it is simply a fun read.  If you are into hard science fiction, forget it.  If you want it to make sense, forget it. Just take a deep breath and jump in with the attitude of going to an action movie.  This is a book to take to the beach house and leave for the next person. No romance, no sex, no profanity, some over-the-top violence.  I thought it was great!	2002-06-28
US	49973561	R13MM6WNPJW0LE	0312872011	341433390	Mars Crossing	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Quick and Easy	I actually read this book a few months ago and was surprised to see it on the Nebula nomination list.  It was a good fast read, but it was not original.  Nothing too challenging, not too much science, lots of emphasis on the people and their personal motivation.  It takes place on Mars, but it really could have been anywhere.  This book is more a whoduit.  I must admit that I am a Mars freak and it is hard to find a new story about Mars that has not been done better by someone else, like Bova.  I mean, how excited can we get about yet another group trek across Mars to an escape vessel only to find everyone cannot be accommodated.  Who will survive?  This is a good read, I recommend it.  Not because it is new, but because it is well done and I did not guess the ending.	2002-04-01
US	49973561	R100QV4Y7QXYIG	0812551028	85425850	Catch The Lightning (The Saga of the Skolian Empire)	Books	4	0	3	N	N	Beginning with the ending	This was the first book I read by Catherine Asaro and I was hooked on the Skolian Series.  It is hard to explain when this takes place because it has has time travel.  It begins in the past ends up in a distant the future.  Chronologically, it is toward the end of her Skolian Series so I had to go back and read the other books to learn more about the beginning and the other characters.  This book is a lightweight start. I think it was one of the first she wrote, the stories get richer and more complex in her later novels. Catch the Lightning begins on Earth and reads familar.  The universe of the Skolians slowly unfolds to draw you in. It is a love story, and it has some very sexy parts.  But again, the story unfolds, so before you know it you believe in the lovers and accept they are destined to be together.  It is also a story about family and responsibility.  I recommend it if you are getting bored with hard sci-fi and want to try something soft that still challenges your definition of the universe. This book should have been more popular.	2002-04-01
US	49973561	RQ82P8KLK47HZ	031289063X	466651156	Spherical Harmonic (Saga of the Skolian Empire, Book 7)	Books	3	2	4	N	Y	Necessary, but not Great	The trouble with a series is that some books will be better than others, but you really need to read them all to inderstand the story.  This book did not work for me.  Dehya is out of character.  I could not accept her in this proactive leadership role as the Fist of Skolia.  I like her much better in the shadows as the influential Pharoah.  I also did not like the story written in first person.  It makes is almost impossible to get inside any other character.  Since this story is about the Ruby Dynasty, I wanted to know more about the history, the future, the other members of the family. There was little of that it this book.  And it seemed to have discrepencies with The Quantum Rose, which I loved.  It was okay, but if you like Asaro the romance writer, read The Quantum Rose.  And if you like Asaro's sci-fi epics, read The Radiant Seas.  Both are more satisfying.	2002-03-24
US	49973561	R3AZIASBO68G65	0312877773	761400106	The Getaway Special	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Lighten Up!	Is it realistic?  Is it hard science?  Does it make sense?  Probably not.  But is it fun?  You bet.  How cool to think space travel could be for anyone.  How cool to think that with a star chart and some nerve you could go anywhere in the universe before lunch.  And why shouldn't trees move around?  I loved it.  I have always wanted to go into space just for the view.  The idea I could go in the confort of my minivan is a fun thought.  The book did read like a short story, but I am a working wife and mother.  I need a quick read sometimes.  I need one dimensional characters who are too good to be true, and I need intelligent, beautiful butterflies with timy cameras.  I thought this was a great rainy day book and would highly recommend it if you feel like you will keel over from one more super-serious scifi melodrama.	2002-03-24
US	49973561	R2NOHVDTEKK76Z	0312874448	287097090	In the Country of the Blind	Books	3	22	24	N	N	I hate to complain, but...	Yeah, yeah, it was a good read, but I had several problems with this book.  Not with the science, but with the fiction.  There were too many characters in the book.  It did read like a serial, every chapter a substory that was ultimately linked by a common character.  I had to keep marginal notes to remember who was who and how they fit in.  I also had a real problem with our hero.  Ms. Beaumont was just too heroic.  Was there anything she did not know, or could not do?  As a mature Black woman I am attracted to books with characters like me, but jeez, this woman could do everything and do it well. If this is a story about a regular citizen caught up in a situation of life and death, she is just too calm and collected.  I also had problems with our male hero. Mr. Malone seemed to be more concerned, more questioning, more nervous about what was going on and he was the experienced professional.  The characters were too sketchy, too good or too bad.  Too sterotypical, like Mr. Collingwood from the fop to the cool leader, to be credible.  I think the most interesting part went to Mr. French, the thread that tied all the motives together.  Ah, if only we had followed his story from beginning to end.  Speaking of the ending, the book just seemed to stop.  Oh well, I guess I was tired of reading it by then anyway.	2001-11-14
US	49973561	R37FWVXWTT97CM	0553581511	663245621	The Veiled Web	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A complicated romance	In the end, this is a romance.  A rather haunting one that had me thinking a lot about Islam and religious differences today.  To me the mystery of the AI computer was a subplot.  It was developed enough for the intrique,  and it was credible, but the book was about two people from very different  cultures who want to be together and have a difficult time trying to make  it work.  <br />I think this is more of what Catherine Asaro wants to write  about today.  Low on the sci-fi, high on the romance.  She is a good  romance writer so maybe this is better for her.  I must admit that I still  miss the Skolians. I love those strong, tough, 40-year plus old women who  know what they want and go for it.  The Veiled Web is not about these  women, but it is still good read.	2000-06-27
US	49973561	R2GTFIQXDXZIZF	0812520475	260427195	Eon	Books	2	9	15	N	N	Not worth the time	I cannot tell you how disappointed I was when I got to the end of this book.  First of all, it took an eon to read it.  It was painfully slow with little climatic excitement for build-up.  The characters from Eternity  (which I loved) did not develop.  It is hard to engage the reader in a  world when the main characters are all disengaged.  What can I tell you?   Rather than read this book just imagine what happens to the people of  Thistledown when the future meets the present, or the present the past, or whatever.  I was so confused by the end I did not care.         Actually, I  love time travel and alternate reality stories.  I think Bear missed an  opportunity to give us hope for the future and hope for the universe here  though.  I wanted a kind of spiritual hope that would make me feel good and  reflect upon all things positive in our lives.  Instead, his Final Mind  left me with a feeling of dread.          Bear is too much a visionary for  me.  I found myself skimming paragraphs rather than trying to construct  what he described.  I agree with an earlier reviewer that you need a map  and guidebook to get through this book.  Anyway, read with caution, if you  must read it at all.	2000-06-05
US	49973561	R8DNJCPNEIHF8	0812544730	325775838	Oaths and Miracles	Books	4	6	6	N	N	If you like the X-Files...	If you like the X-Files you will enjoy this book.  More a mystery with sinister biochemistry overtones than sci-fi, it gives you the creeps and ultimately leaves things unresolved.  Our fearless FBI guy keeps trying to  make the pieces fit.  It takes 6 months and a lot of coincidences, but  finally it all comes together.  I found this an exciting read with lots of  page turning suspense.  The lingering meanace at the end made the premise  more credible.  And my hat goes off to anyone who can set a story in  Newark, NJ.<br />I am a Nancy Kress fan and have read several of her books  including the Beggars series.  This is quite different, no really awesome  science or brave new future world.  A good read for someone just starting  out in science fiction and not wanting too much sci-tech.	2000-04-28
US	49973561	RFS27S8S9J9LW	0812556275	111233041	The Starry Rift	Books	3	2	7	N	N	Strange and stranger	This book contains three short stories that take place in the same universe.  The characters have nothing in common and do not know each other.  The only common element is the universe -- and a mysterious library  in which the stories housed.  I must say that I do not like short stories.   The characters are seldom fully developed and just when you think things  are really getting interesting its all over.  The further problem with  these short stories is that they are not worth developing into a novel.   They are strange.  Like tightly focused episodes of the Twilight Zone I was  left with an empty and ultimately sad feeling after reading them.  Tiptree  is not an optimist, and in these stories neither love no loyalty conquer  all.<br />One the positive side, the prose is often lyrical.  Tiptree is quite  convincing writing from the point of view of a man or a teenage girl. But  that may not be enough to make these stories worth the read.	2000-04-28
US	49973561	R1F5TCEQ8GJ4IO	0312850247	756646129	The Trikon Deception	Books	3	4	4	N	N	A good read, but dated	Plain and simple this book is a mystery.  It is not really sci-fi.  There is no weird science or unexplained alien threat. Written 10 years ago, the story takes place in 1998 and almost seems dated in its lack of technical  innovation.  But is is a darn good mystery.  The first thing is to figure  out the crime, then to figure out the criminal. I kept waiting for Bova to  make it happen and eventually he did and it was exciting.  But it was a  shallow read, hardly one of his best.  I get the feeling Bova can write a  book like this almost as fast as I can read it. <br />I have mixed feelings  about Bova.  I did not like MARS, but I loved RETURN TO MARS.  Trikon was  stylistically a lot like MARS.  I think he has put everything he has  learned into RETURN TO MARS which I think is his best.  TRIKON still has  too many characters and too many subplots that really never go anywhere,  they just clutter up the story and distract the reader.  I keep a few notes  as I read Bova until I can eliminate characters as nonessential to the  plot.  Trying to keep up with everyone is an unnecessary challenge.<br />A  note about the ending...  I liked the story, and was happy at the way  things turned out.  But I still thought the ending was kinda cheap.  There  were two appendices at the end that sort of updated the story and told what  happened some of the characters.  I do not like this technique of ending  afterthought - but it was better than leaving the fate of those characters  unaddressed.	2000-04-02
US	49973561	R21URQVBO3VS00	0812550951	447643401	Ganwold's Child (Unified Worlds)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Boy meets worlds	I was not familiar with Diann Thornley and bought this book on a whim, but I really liked it.  By no means is it perfect.  I agree with the previous viewer that the worlds are not well defined and I had a lot of trouble  keeping the characters straight.  A chart would have helped.  I also did  not understand the rift between the human factions and thought more  exploration of the relationship between the main characters would have been  helpful.<br />The ending was okay, but I wanted to read a little more about  what happened next.  Too few books have satisfying endings, its as if you  are being forced to read the next book.  The epilogue cleaned up some loose  ends about the bad guys, but what about the good guys.  <br />The good news is  that the book was fast and exciting.  Even though we know what will happen  in the end we have a lot of thrills on the way there.  I recommend this  book for anyone who likes action and adventure over technology.  Not a lot  of advanced technology here, this boy meets worlds story could take place  in the wild, wild, west.  I also recommend this book for teen readers and  anyone new to sci-fi who wants to start out slowly.	2000-03-16
US	49973561	R3JTS71JTKNYWK	0312868243	533689544	Ascendant Sun: A New Novel in the Saga of the Skolian Empire	Books	3	8	9	N	Y	A bit of a letdown	I was really disappointed when I got to the end of this book.  Actually, I was disappointed when I got to page 300 and realized I was almost to the end and I had not read the story I expected to read.  Too much romance,  actually R-rated sex.  I began to lose respect for our hero as he seemed to  enjoy his capitivity too much.  There were some insights that moved the  Skolian saga forward, but that really could have been accomplished in a  hundred pages.  <br />I wanted more.  The ending seemed rushed.  I would have  rather read another 50 pages and learned more about the Kelric's return to  his family, their freedom from the Allieds, and the initial results of the  peace talks.  I want to know what happened to Dehya.  I want to know if  Kelric and his father shared their information about Soz and her family.  I  am not sure this book answered any of these questions.  Therefore, I was  disappointed.  Too many gaps and not enough answers.<br />I agree with another  reviewer that Ascendant Sun was much more a romance in space than a space  sage with romance.  To Ms. Ansaro, I say please make up your mind.  I like  a space saga that makes me think in new and different ways, that makes me  hopeful for a future where people respond to new challenges, and that  combines technology and people in a future that is alive.  Yet I await the  next Skolian saga. I am curious about the future of their universe, and the  return of Soz and Jaibriol.<br />My favorite remains The Radiant Seas which is  a complex story that tells more about the universe of the Skolians and the  Eubians and their ruling families.  It is a great read with a powerful, to  be envied, romance at its core (but almost no sex). If you read this book,  you will understand the potential of Ms. Asaro as a writer, and why  Ascendant Sun is a letdown.	2000-03-13
US	49973561	R2C46K9GOFS8DV	0380974568	842750810	Mission Child	Books	4	4	4	N	N	A Very Lonesome Story	I was facinated by this book, I could not put it down.  It was gentle, it was shocking, it was deliberate.  It made me uneasy, it made me think, it made me want to scream and cry.  But most of all, it made me lonesome.   This is the most lonesome story I ever read.  <br />I have always wanted to go  into space.  Just to visit a space station would be sufficient, but the  idea of exploring new worlds and new civilizations is my wildest dream for  my children.  Now I read a book that points out the lonesomeness of being  in space -- a long way from home, forgot and forgotten, lost in more ways  than I can imagine.  Jan/Janna has even lost her personal identity.  That  she lived and had any sense of social responsibility at all was  interesting.  <br />I loved the ending.  How else could the book end but with  words of hope and promise?  The last 3 pages were worth the wait.  Lyrical,  beautiful, sad, and lonesome.  This book says there is a lot more to space  exploration and space explorers than action and adventure.	2000-03-02
