US	49984359	R3C2GWUDP45EH6	067101756X	466018903	The Day After Roswell	Books	2	33	43	N	N	Self-laudatory tosh	The biggest mystery about this book, even bigger than the supposed existence of a hostile alien race that may or may not have lost a spaceship outside of Roswell in '47, is why Philip Corso's mantlepiece is not currently groaning under the weight of Nobel Prizes for physics ? For, if this book is accurate, then Philip Corso and Philip Corso alone is responsible for the ideas in many diverse fields that led to the development of many new technologies.<br />Because, in the author's own humble words iterated several timwes throughout - &quot;I realised that perhaps what this was for was (fill in - Starlight Optics, Lasers for medical and military and range-finding use, Particle-Beam weapons etc etc etc)&quot;. Single-handedly Corso discovered what alien technologies did and also thought of the ways to exploit them ! This must be deeply distressing news for the hardworking scientists who really developed all this stuff. However, as Corso explains, they were in on the secret as he fed them info and let them hold any patents fof the new stuff. So that explains that. Humble guy.<br />This might have been believable has Corso gotten his scientific facts right, but facts, like concrete evidence, are thin on the ground in this flight of fancy. The effects of microwaves for instance were, depending on which side of the Atlantic you happen to be on, discovered by either RAF radar technicians who found cooked sparrows by radar stations in 1941 or by Doctor Spencer of Raytheon in 1946 who noticed that a candy bar in his pocket had melted when working with radar. (The former is more believable for more than the obvious patriotic reasons for one wonders why no other part of Doctor Spencer was affected by the microwaves). In any event, neither of these histories of microwave discovery appear in Corso's work and so it goes through the other fields. <br />The works laying the foundation of fibre-optics appeared in 1951, some ten years before Corso's &quot;brainwave&quot; when pondering the Roswell find. Admittedly, the first concrete proposals for the application of fibre-optics were put forth in 66, but the point remains, the idea for them was hard graft by scientists ten years earlier. What's more Dutch and English scientists lest people object they were given their ideas by the US military.<br />And on it goes, example after example of how this technology really came about from previous research predating the Roswell crash can be put forth to utterly refute Corso's claim. For we only have Corso's word that his is indeed the case. Corso gives us no evidence of his story. All the photographs are of him or are plucked from other UFO sources. The appendix &quot;official&quot; documents are largely unsigned. The schematics therein able to have been produced by any Star-Trek buff, not any competent scientist. Conveniently, Corso's superior is dead and thus can't refute any of Corso's astounding claims.<br />Not that really they need refuting. If you are unable to refute this yourself after 10 minutes on a good search engine, then there's a bridge in Brooklyn I want to sell you. Gets two stars for being entertainingly written.	2003-11-06
US	49984359	R1GCRECMCRJBC3	0345409469	137607328	The Demon-Haunted World: Science as a Candle in the Dark	Books	5	15	18	N	N	Sagan: inoculating the mind to absurd thoughts	The erosion of the bedrock certainties that used to be provided by the established churches has created a vacuum in peoples lives that is increasingly being filled with new age ideologies and faddish disciplines. Science itself has lost the respect of the public who see only the bad of science and seemingly forget that they are surrounded by innumerable examples of the good. Step forward Carl Sagan, to bring to peoples attention that the problems we face in this day and age, even though they may have been caused by science, are only likely to be resolved with science and not by feverish crystal rubbing and other quackery.<br />Touching on several examples of pseudoscience - recovered memory syndrome and Satanic abuse, so-called alien abduction and others, Sagan calmly examines the claims and finds them to be built on a desire to see things as they are not. He argues that the only true method with which to examine these claims is by adoption of a healthily skeptical scientific method.<br />In this regard he devotes a chapter of his book to his now-famous &quot;Baloney Detection Kit&quot; which informs the reader of the forms which pseudoscientific arguments take - tautologies, ad hominem attacks etc. And also what you should be looking for in an argument that should be taken seriously and what kind of proofs should be needed for it to be accpeted.<br />Beyond this advice on pseudoscience and how to handle it, Sagan devotes the latter part of the book to a convincing argument that only through widespread scientific education can democracy survive and flourish. Though he bemoans the standard of scientific education in America Sagan was not an author without hope in humanity. Demon-Haunted World is a fitting testament to all that Sagan stood for and should serve to inspire in the reader at least a healthy respect for the scientific worldview as a richly satisfying one, if not enthusiasm to adopt what Sagan advocated into one's own perspective.	2001-04-16
US	49984359	R3CJ9AC1ZE1ZG	0393038912	733405472	Guns, Germs and Steel: The Fates of Human Societies	Books	5	9	11	N	N	If you only read one pop-science book this year.....	......make it this one. Some pop-science books are deathly dull, others make you scratch your head in puzzlement, good ones educate - teaching you things you never knew. Occasionally, as in this instance, you read a book and you feel like an instant genius.<br />Taking a step back from the trees of history - such as wars, dates, conquerors, laws, treaties etc etc, Diamond goes for the big picture and captures the wood. What is it about human development in the last thirteen thousand years that has put us here today ? In a nutshell, argues Diamond, geography.<br />Taking the reader from an Africa with little prospect of development due to inhibiting factors such as tropical disease belts, lack of rivers and animals that have evolved alonside humans and are wary of them and thus not domesticable, into the middle-east where animals that have never met humans were tamable and there were wild plants suitable for the development of sophisticated agriculture and from there with this &quot;package&quot; of benefits how man colonised everywhere else. Here, running into a geographical dead-end, there finding room to thrive flourish and develop complex technological societies.<br />Diamond has less sat down and hammered out a new knowledge of history, rather by adopting a new viewpoint he has more thrown hidden patterns into sharp relief. This book is a literal revelation and is sure to fire enthusiasm for further research into this area. Like I say at the top, if you read pop science make this your one must read this year and if you don't then, heck, you should as you don't know what you're missing.	2001-04-08
US	49984359	R3FOMAM89KG70C	0312274920	425833090	Round Ireland with a Fridge	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Good Craic	After a heavy alcohol-fuelled session at a party, English comedian Tony Hawks wakes up to find that he has entered into a bet to hitchhike around the coast of Ireland in the company of a fridge. Not a man to welch on his bets he sets off to do precisely that and manages to write us a hilarious book detailing the experience.<br />The people of Ireland respond to the idea of this English lunatic pulling this stunt as if it's an excellent proposal and pitch in to help Tony on his way with madcap enthusiasm. By car, truck and van, Tony and his fridge progress around the coast; on the way having the fridge christened, blessed, named and adopted as well as entering into a batchelor competition. The passing through of Tony and his fridge becomes an event in many areas and he achieves a cult following as &quot;Fridge-man&quot;.<br />If you want to read a travelogue with a difference you'd be hard-pressed to find one as bizarre and enjoyable as this which serves to warm the reader's heart to Ireland, the Irish, Tony and free-willed kitchen appliances everywhere. Good craic.	2001-04-08
US	49984359	R2LZ3Q8LZ9ZJEX	0345384563	286200112	A History of God: The 4,000-Year Quest of Judaism, Christianity and Islam	Books	5	19	33	N	N	A History of God.......	.....or - How The Lesser War God of the Jews Came To Be CEO of Deities'R'Us. Because that, essentially is the history of the god that has come to be the one and only god worshipped by the three great monotheistic traditions of today.<br />Armstrong traces the development of this god, Yahweh, who started out as one amongst many gods worshipped by the Jews and in time supplanted them all. She details how Yahweh was decided by mere mortals to be one and the same as El Shaddai, the god of Abraham, then later El, the high god of the Canaanites, then was incarnated in Jesus Christ and even later became Al-lah, the supreme god of the Arab pantheon by a certain Muhammed. She points out how it was men who decided that Yahweh was the only god and forbade worship of other deities, burning down their temples and smashing their altars. <br />Once Yahweh had absorbed or conquered the other gods and only he remained Armstrong then takes us onward in history and shows how it emerged that two distinct viewpoints of God arose and oscillated in popularity through history. These she terms The God of the Philosopher's - who is deemed to be a separate supreme being 'out there' and can be reasoned about and The God of the Mystics - who is not 'out there' but everywhere and defies reason and logic. What becomes apparent is that these viewpoints are adopted in response to political events. When things are good, God is on your side and reasonable, when things are bad, God is then nebulous (ie conspicuous by his absence) and you must rely on yourself for salvation.<br />In discussing these points Armstrong addresses such concepts as the Trinity and messianic fervour, pointing out why they disappoint. There is an awful lot of commentary on the positions of various Islamic and Christian theologians in the centre of the book which may deter people from reading this, since it's difficult to have the foggiest notion of the concepts they discuss, wreathed as they are in doublespeak and contradiction. This culminates in a quote from Nicholas of Cusa who said &quot;the Christian must leave everything behind when he sought to approach God and even transcend one's intellect going beyond all sense and reason&quot; which I think translates as &quot;only the truly stupid can find God&quot;. Many theologians also define God as &quot;nothing&quot; which is ironic given the theistic argument &quot;How can you get something from nothing ?&quot; to which we can now answer &quot;Precisely&quot;.<br />But on Armstrong forges into the enlightenment and the bombshells planted under God by various theologians and philosophers. These include the idea that if God was everything then sin was nothing, being merely another aspect of God and something to be done as part of worship. The views of Diderot are also worth mentioning since he pointed out &quot;once God has ceased to be a passionatley subjective experience, He does not exist&quot; and &quot;Whether God exists or does not exist, He has come to rank amongst the most sublime and useless truths&quot;.<br />She touches only briefly upon the biggest bombshell to God, that of Darwin's Theory of Evolution which has done the most to damage faith than all the philosophers she touches upon. But it's interesting to note that since science and philosophy have killed The God of the Philosopher's beyond hope of revival that has left the faithful with only the God of the Mystics in modern times to turn to, and He must compete with other forms of mysticism and New Age beliefs in a competitive market. <br />Will God survive ? The answer would appear to be yes since this book demonstartes quite clearly to any reader that God is entirely a product of human imagination and as long as people can imagine God, He wil continue to exist for them, whether he should continue to do so or not.	2001-02-16
US	49984359	R3PZ2BAJ40GHT2	0883683245	515656240	Prepare for War	Books	2	17	37	N	N	Well, if it's war you're after.....	.....then don't be at all surprised that when you invoke Jesus against a committed Satanist, he doesn't just fill you full of lead. Unlike vampires, Satanists tend to laugh at crucifixes.<br />This rather amusing tome is intended to convince the reader that Satan is all-around and trying to get you to stray from the good and righteous path of Christianity. He has several ways of doing this, assuming you have indulged in the various fashionable moral worries that Christians tend to fret over. Things such as yoga or role-playing games. These represent a &quot;door&quot; to Satan apparently, a means whereby he can wrest control of your psyche. This is a rather anaemic view of Satan compared to an author like Grant R Jeffrey who at least credits Satan with the ability and the ambition to attempt to forge a dictatorship here on earth. Rebecca Brown by contrast, takes the Hollywood view of Satan as a being with only the power, ambition and wherewithal to pester little girls. This gives the book an amusing overtone, assuming you can get over your amazement that (a) a grown-up can actually believe this and (b) that same grown-up is an MD.<br />As someone who has indulged in various of the said activities including having actually read the Satanic Bible then obviously come Judgement Day I'm really for the high jump. I would deny that I am actually possessed by Satan myself, but as the author states &quot;of course, I would deny this&quot;. Therefore I am disallowed right of reply since I am non compus mentis.........	2001-01-29
US	49984359	RX40IV4EGKYRV	075400113X	465027309	The Solitary Man	Books	4	6	6	N	N	An involving read from a top thriller writer	Sad that Stephen Leather is not as well known in the US as in the UK and elsewhere, for he is a very talented author who draws upon his experience as a journalist and first hand knowledge of the settings of his books.<br />Here weaving favourite themes such as the IRA, drug-smuggling and South-East Asia he produces yet another compelling tale. The IRA having had a man arrested whilst drug-smuggling and imprisoned in the infamous &quot;Bangkok Hilton&quot; prison track down the hero Hutch, a man expert at breaking out of prison. They blackmail him into getting thrown into the prison to rescue their man by fixing it so that he faces a long sentence himself. His Chinese girlfriend Chau Ling, daughter of a wealthy Triad leader, attempts to get him out of prison herself taking advantage of the fact that in Thailand, money talks very loudly indeed.<br />A subplot involving a unsanctioned strike on a Thai drugs baron in retaliation for the death via heroin of a politician's son is deftly woven into the mix producing a three-way conflict amongst the dramatis personae. Nobody describes South-East Asia as vividly and real as Leather and few thriller writers are able to sustain his narrative tension. I highly recommend Leather to anyone with even a passing interest in the genre........	2001-01-29
US	49984359	RHWQZGW31G3GF	0552139505	388564154	Jesus the Man: New Interpretation from the Dead Sea Scrolls	Books	4	24	31	N	N	A persuasive alternative	Dr Thiering, of Sydney University, uses her lifelong study of the Dead Sea Scrolls and Nag Hammadi Gospels in offering a new perspective of what is contained in the New Testament. Firmly setting Jesus in his historical context she presents a picture of a remarkable man - but only a man.<br />This is of course assuming Jesus actually existed and there is very good evidence to suggest that he never did (see The Jesus Mysteries by Freke). Rather it is much more likely that this is yet another incarnation of the dying-and-reviving god-man worshipped all around the Mediterranean as Osiris, Mithras, Dionysus etc. If however Jesus did exist then Thiering's theory is a more probable description of him than the classic interpretation of the Christian church which takes what suits their position as literal truth and anything that frankly doesn't as something to be understood as metaphor. What are their reasons for their choices of which passage is which ? There aren't any, other than what is expedient at that particular moment, which is why of course Genesis is a &quot;metaphor&quot; now (yeah now that we know better it is).<br />Thiering's theory though does not depend on such arbitrary convention. It depends upon long and thought out scholarship and historical knowledge of the period. Thiering gaves dates and motives for the events and characters in the Gospels, pointing out that some previously humble characters were enormously influential and powerful in a politico-religious movement intent on expelling Roman occupiers from their land. <br />Thiering's work is not revolutionary, this ground has been covered before by scholars and notably conspiracy theorists (see The Holy Blood and The Holy Grail as probably the most famous). However it is well researched and along with it's counterpart &quot;Jesus of the Apocalypse&quot; presents a persuasive case for a re-evaluation of the New Testament in light of historical discoveries. Thiering presents her source material, her research, her methodology and her conclusions and says basically &quot;see for yourself if I'm wrong or not&quot;. I'm not aware of anyone taking her to task as yet, at least with anything more than pro-Christian polemic which should give you an idea of how well she has done these two books. See for yourself if she's wrong or not, you may learn something whatever you decide.	2001-01-19
US	49984359	R374P1GQYVNRCM	1573225681	87885862	Living Buddha, Living Christ	Books	3	7	25	N	N	Love is the major difference	In his usual poetic prose Hanh seeks to identify a common ground between Buddhism and Christianity. Of course there is some common ground between the two, after all there were six centuries in which Buddhist traditions/beliefs could have made it to the middle east to be incorporated into Christian tradition. Indeed, several commentators have pointed out clear Buddhist teachings and sayings of Lao Tze within Christian writings. This is hardly common ground, we know it as common...<br />But with regards to teachings themselves whilst Hanh says that Buddhists and Christians are tapping into the same thing, he is making a demonstrable fundamental error. The difference is love. Whereas the Buddhist is trying to lose themself in attempting to experience reality or &quot;suchness&quot; the Christian describes a feeling of love between themself and God. These are two different experiences. It is possible to induce feelings of love in oneself by visualization techniques or fantasy, this much has been known for a long time. Indeed within the martial philosophies this technique of stimulating the body's own opiates, endorphins, is often studied...There are many other differences which Hanh also glosses over or ignores. One wonders whether he could square Luke 14:26 in which Christ enjois his followers to hate their kith and kin, with the Buddhas teachings...Hanh then is really doing Christianity no favours in this text and I am somewhat perplexed by what he feels Buddhism to be. Any reader seeking to understand either Buddhism or Christianity would be well advised to look elsewhere.	2001-01-10
US	49984359	RTGLYA9LV3H6Z	1569471339	401690791	Hokkaido Highway Blues: Hitchhiking Japan	Books	4	3	4	N	N	A book of two halves	In a moment of drunken inspiration author Will Ferguson decides that he is going to hitchhike the length of Japan following the cherry blossom front because, well he doesn't know because, alcohol does that to you sometimes. But from this moment of inspiration comes this funny and thoughtful book. <br />A resident in Japan, teaching English, Ferguson illuminates the nuances of Japanese custom and culture in a manner reminiscent of the great humourist PJ O'Rourke such that he has the reader (or this one at least) laughing out loud at frequent intervals. This is in the first half of the book however. As the author's journey progresses the humour does thin out to be replaced by more serious observations and reflections. It is most definitely a book of two halves and whilst each facet is good on it's own I found myself wishing that the  book was either one or the other kind of travelogue.<br />That aside the book is well worth reading and I will definitely keep my eye open for more by this author. If you like travelogues of Japan then people who enjoyed this may enjoy &quot;A Ride in the Neon Sun&quot; by Josie Dew and if you like travelogues caused by moments of mad inspiration then Tony Hawks' &quot;Round Ireland With a Fridge&quot; (which is exactly what it says) will definitely fit the bill.	2001-01-05
US	49984359	R34XGI05GFZTE4	0830813241	403041738	Darwin on Trial	Books	1	30	62	N	N	Bread and circuses for the faithful	What kind of a disregard for the truth must one have when one says &quot;the argument cannot be proved either way therefore the argument goes to the best arguer&quot; ? Sadly, Mr Johnson, science does not work like that and as a lawyer you merely confirm what the vast majority believes about your profession to begin with.<br />Ignoring vast amounts of evidence not just from biology and paleontology and taking material from his evolutionist whipping boys Gould and Dawkins, out of context the author builds a great case against Darwin's Theory of Evolution. One wonders whether he could build the same case if he actually bothered to consider the evidence he ignores (or more probably didn't bother seeking out), evidence which would certainly acquit Darwin. For instance the evidence of paleobotany is not nearly as equivocal as that for paleontology providing much hard evidence for evolution. But theists aren't concerned about plants, they're just miffed at being labelled monkeys and will move heaven and earth and scientific fact to deny that they are.<br />We now have witnessed the evolution of new species, the fact that we previously hadn't creationists used to hold as proof that evolution was suspect. May we now ask for a withdrawal of this objection ? Hardly surprising given Steve Jones' introduction to &quot;Darwin's Ghost&quot; in which he states that nature is constant change and it is difficult to quantify what constitutes a species anyway, a species being an almost arbitrary pair of lines drawn on a spectra of life.<br />It would be nice if, in a spirit of fairness, Johnson wrote another book called &quot;God on Trial&quot;. He would find that the evidence against God overwhelming, particularly if the rebuttal of the cosmological argument were introduced to the discussion (note for theists : the rebuttal falsifies God, sorry). The reviewer from Texas states that science is making a false assumption in stating that there must be materialist explanation for our being here and that because of this initial false assumption all subsequent evolutionary theory is wrong. Well, sorry, if first we examine God and find that explanation false (which was done in the 19th century, you just haven't heard about it) then the assumption scientists make is the only valid one left (I trust we can leave UFO explanations out of it).<br />So if you want a laugh at the hoops theists will jump through in order to keep their sense of adequacy intact then by all means read this book. Just don't expect scientists to treat it with anything other than the contempt it merits for it's blatant disregard for truth.	2001-01-05
US	49984359	R1QRPGH3IF06XB	0671203231	224357917	Why I Am Not a Christian and Other Essays on Religion and Related Subjects	Books	5	42	56	N	N	Five stars for the title essay alone	Many people dismiss the arguments that Russell puts forward by attacking the man himself. This does his arguments no credit at all, after all he is recognised as one of the prominent 20th century philosophers. Whatever the circumstances of his childhood, or the aberrations of his later years (he was not a good father to his children and suffered delusions of grandeur about his status in later years, dabbling in politics and popular causes) the fact is his arguments, some of which are presented in this book, are sound.<br />In all my debating with theists I haven't yet had one who could rebut anything Russell put forth indeed, I haven't met anyone who has even tried to rebut anything Russell has said. The closest anyone has ever come is when one theist said &quot;he had read Bertrand Russell&quot; presuming that would be sufficient to deter me from using any of his arguments. It wasn't, needless to say.<br />People say (including some below) that Russell is on firmer ground when questioning the morality of past Christians and that his philosophy is in error (again, they cite no examples). One even says &quot;so what if Russell can dismiss the Ontological argument ?&quot;. Well I'll tell you so what. If Russell can flatten the Ontological argument for God, or the Cosmological argument (which is the one he does dismiss here, not the Ontological) or indeed the moral argument (which he also does) that doesn't leave many logical arguments for God left. In fact all the logical arguments for God can have their problems laid bare which means there are no arguments left in his favour. This, coupled with the evidence of several scientific disciplines leaves no room for God at all. That's hardly a &quot;so what?&quot;.<br />Some person might well say &quot;I believe BECAUSE it's impossible&quot; but that's them just admitting their ignorance and is hardly cause to admire them. How anybody could be proud of such a worldview is beyond me, indeed so proud of it that they print itfor all the world to see.<br />Russell's book is to be highly recommended both on the grounds that he was a talented philosopher and that he wasn't afraid to point out the fatal flaws of Christianity.	2001-01-03
US	49984359	R3FKKG071NWOLL	0751517550	165188928	A Ride in the Neon Sun	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Pedalling light reading	It's interesting to note that it's people with &quot;yellow fever&quot; (the love of all things Asian) who have leaped to the defense fo Japan just because Miss Dew doesn't have a full cultural awareness of the countries she cycles through. Lighten up people, she is just &quot;passing through&quot; and if you expect to pick up deep cultural insight from what essentially is a light-hearted travelogue then you have very strange expectations.<br />As it is, Josie paints a very fond picture of Japan and it's peoples and it's clear she utterly loves the place. Travelogues are as much autobiographical as they concern the country travelled in and I would say the author's failure to understand some aspects of Japanese culture and therefore draw incorrect conclusions is more of a reflection of Josie than of Japan. <br />Miss Dew does a good job of portraying modern Japan and many of it's little idiosyncracies and yes, she does notice and comment on some of it's not so-good points much to the irritation of reviewers below who clearly have a lovers' blind infatuation with the country. Every country has a bad side but the overwhelming picture from this book is that Japan is a wonderful place to visit and it's bad side is minimal. The Japanese tourist industry should be well-pleased at the glowing praise the author lavishes on the country as she describes her extensive bicycle tour about the islands.<br />The book is satisfyingly long and written in an informail chatty style that is quite engaging. I am deducting stars however for the common problems that afflict modern travel-writing by the young - that is the ending is always rushed and the later destinations are really not well-depicted because of this and also, the tendency of writers to look down on fellow travellers and &quot;dis&quot; them at every opportunity - a problem most acute in backpacker writings. Other than that I highly recommend it.	2000-12-19
US	49984359	R15CDMNUQYFENY	1570625190	568909588	The Tao of Physics: An Exploration of the Parallels between Modern Physics and Eastern Mysticism (25th Anniversary Edition)	Books	4	22	26	N	N	Kudos to Capra	One has to be wary of books which attempt to draw parallels between religion and science in order to vindicate the former. For the most part these books fail utterly to convince because of the tortuous &quot;logic&quot; employed in trying to reconcile cherished notions to hard fact.          <br />          Capra thankfully manages to avoid this pitfall and instead just lays out his own observations about physics and the eastern mystic traditions and the remarkably similar worldviews both have come to adopt. In the examples he gives, but for the terminology involved, the two disciplines do indeed appear to be discussing the same things. Does this then mean that the eastern mystical traditions can be reconciled with western science ?<br />           To Capra's credit, his answer is a blunt &quot;no&quot;, pointing out that while the two may have reached the same conclusions they are essentially polar and complementary viewpoints of use for different things. Sadly having given such a wonderfully Taoist answer to this question he spends the latter two chapters advocating the one worldview over the other, without realising that, as he himself pointed out, &quot;balance is maintained by change&quot; nor also that if Zen enlightenment can be achieved through swordsmanship (kendo/bushido), archery (kyudo), tea-making, gardening and indeed motorcycle maintenance surely there can be &quot;Zen science&quot;. Certainly there are well-balanced and seemingly enlightened scientists around. Does not the author call quantum physics a new Zen koan ?<br />        Anyway there are developments in other fields which would seem to add more weight to Capra's thesis and these are as follows:-<br />        In philosophy the Cosmological argument for God postulates that the universe was caused (ie contingent) and that it's cause, God, is uncaused (or necessary). Having a wider look at the four possible outcomes of the universe being here we can reject the combinations of a contingent God and a contingent or necessary universe as a contingent God begs the question &quot;what caused God ?&quot;. Likewise we can reject a necessary God and a necessary universe as a necessary universe doesn't need a God. The theists proposition must also be rejected because necessary facts cannot explain contingent facts (if A caused B such that no A would mean no B, then A and B are both contingent). This rules God as an explanation of the universe out completely leaving a necessary universe as the only sound conclusion. A necessary universe (or the eternal Tao) is at the heart of all eastern traditions.<br />         In cosmology Dr Joao Maguejiro and Dr Andy Albrecht (one of the torch-bearers of inflation-theory) have come up with the clunkily titled &quot;variable speed of light theory&quot; to explain the inflation of the universe after the Big Bang. In the initial aftermath of the explosion in order for all parts of the universe to &quot;keep in touch&quot; they posit that the speed of light would have had to have been greater than it is now. This is supposedly impossible, it is supposed to be a constant after all. However recent research into the phenomenon of barrier tunnelling suggests that the speed of light can be exceeded (by anywhere between 1.7 and 5 times) when physical space is restricted. In the explosion outwards after a singularity (all matter collapsed to one point in space) conditions for this phenomenon would be prevalent. <br />        In the course of the Big Bang matter changes to energy (thankyou Einstein) for the explosion and this energy condenses or forms matter when it expands and cools. The universe expands and forms and entropy results in loss of energy from all things and universal decay. The energy is lost into the vaccuum whereupon when it collects to critical mass another Big Bang will occur. Thus the universe is infinite Big Bangs stretching back in time and also forward in time and more crucially as Dr Maguejiro says &quot;the void isnot nothing, it possesses energy and can salt matter out or take energy out of the system&quot;. Analysis of the spectra of the most distant gas clouds of quasars points to this theory being correct because either matter was different back then or the speed of light was just faster.<br />        In eastern traditions it is held that the void is not &quot;nothingness&quot; it holds the &quot;emptiness of all potential&quot; and &quot;all things come from the void&quot;. The latest cosmology looks like adding more weight to Capra's observations but regardless of whether Capra is correct or not it is very clear that if any religion is to be reconciled to western science it's going to be an eastern one and the theistic religions had better stand in line (or rather, just give up). But western science, I would suggest is just an equally valid path to enlightenment as any eastern religion so reconciliation need not be an issue.	2000-12-17
US	49984359	R229IBZLGLWTW7	0871136112	786465583	All the Trouble in the World: The Lighter Side of Overpopulation, Famine, Ecological Disaster, Ethnic Hatred, Plague, and Poverty	Books	5	1	2	N	N	America's foremost humourist on, well, everything	The perfect antidote to all the fin de siecle hysteria parrotted by the self-righteous in order for them to have an adequate sense of self-esteem; PJ O'Rourke, America's funniest man of letters, has a long hard look at the issues that seem to have most people upset at this point in history and, quite frankly, can't see what all the fuss is about.<br />From the rainforests of South America (best seen in air-conditioned comfort from a six-lane freeway) to war torn Somalia (close the borders and give them all guns) PJ rips into some modern myths and fashionable worries making most of the world's worry-worts looking stupid and ill-informed to boot. <br />This is a witty and informative read, not something you'd care to read on public transport because you'll annoy everybody laughing out loud. The prefect present for the po-faced, ribbon-wearing, organic freaks  who are becoming more and more scared of modern science as modern science becomes more and more effective but conversely is harder to understand, such that they'd rather cure cancer with marjoram than radiotherapy.  PJ at the height of his powers, enjoy with a fine blended scotch.	2000-12-14
US	49984359	R2E0FEICYW0ACK	0380015390	52596332	The Satanic Bible	Books	5	13	20	N	N	A damnably good laugh	I'm often accused of being a Satanist just because I've read this book and like to annoy Christians by the occasional quote from it. As it is I neither believe in God nor Satan but after getting a lifelong earful from the woolly-minded sheep of God I was curious as to what their official opposition had to say.<br />And it's quite interesting. Christianity gets the predictable (but no less well-deserved) pasting that's long overdue from an author who seems remarkably level-headed and dispenses common sense and reason in amounts that make the real Bible look quite miserly. I love his description of Jesus as &quot;pallid incompetence hanging on a tree&quot;  and &quot;thou art not and thou never wert&quot; the saviour of mankind. All true, after all we're still waiting and this after Jesus promised to come back within the lifetime of those present who followed Him.<br />To all those Christians who say that their faith is beyond empirical proof I say we should put it to the test and conjure up a few demons to inflict some misery on them. Let me know, anyone who's contested me, if something terrible has happened to you because I might have to reconsider my position vis-a-vis this God thing. Also Sons of Adam, do yourselves a favour and read this you might find Satan more worthy of your affection than Jehovah who in the Old Testament has inflicted more misery on mankind for no good reason. Satan by comparison in the Bible has done virtually nothing. Christians are down on him for what he's supposed to do (Revelations) but you wouldn't get a conviction in court for a crime not yet committed now would you ?	2000-12-05
US	49984359	R3CB2X2PBDKB68	0747262438	640898601	The Gurkhas: The Inside Story of the World's Most Feared Soldiers	Books	4	10	10	N	N	Entertaining account of very brave men	Is there anyone with an interest in militaria who has not heard of the Gurkhas ? Then let this book introduce you to the bravest men in any regiment of the British Army, with the most Victoria Crosses (highest British battle honour) to their name.<br />Packed with reminisences from the warriors themselves along with the author's competent overview and asides this is a fine testament to the men, their skill and their courage. Starting with the history of the first encounters between the Brits and the Gurkhas when they were on opposing sides in India, it continues with accounts of their Afghan frontier duties, exploits in two world wars and deployment in modern wars and in trouble zones such as Kosovo and Timor.<br />One of my favourite parts is the description of when a wounded Gurkha from a beseiged fort staggered to the British lines for medical treatment. The British treated him thinking this was a surrender whereupon he returned to the fort to take up his post and continue the fight leaving the Brits bemused and astounded by his bravado.<br />The Brits should consider themselves very lucky to have these brave and cheerful fighters on thier payroll and as the reviewer below points out, should better their pay right away. The Gurkhas may be the richest in Nepal but they don't have pay parity with Brit frontline troops as yet. And boy have they earned it.	2000-12-05
US	49984359	R14G9O4FGH7OXD	1840240679	403223804	Year of the Roasted Ear	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Enjoyable account of the author's travels	In the depths of a miserable and rainy Greek winter, the author, her husband and daughter decide to just pack up and head off for more exotic climes to alleviate their misery. This is their intention anyway.<br />Shortly thereafter they arrive in the South-Eastern country of Thailand in an environment they were clearly unprepared for - it's coronary inducing capital - Bangkok. And when I say that, I mean it literally. Within days Carrere's husband has a mild heart attack and the author is plunged into the maddening world of Thai bureaucracy, trying to deal with hospital admission and visa extensions.<br />Her depictions of this time bring a smile to the face of anyone who has had to get anything done in Thailand and her prose sketches of Bangkok and it's people are very well done. When her husband has recuperated it's down to Hua Hin for a spot of R&amp;R having to deal on the way with the ubiquitous Aussie backpackers, more Thai officialdom and fat, sweaty German sex tourists. <br />Then it's on to Penang in Malaysia in search of their original elusive dream of a tropical getaway. Whilst not laugh out loud funny, it is witty and thoughtful and well-observed. Perfect for the armchair traveller dreaming of doing similar and for anyone familiar with the region who wants a mental reminder.	2000-12-05
US	49984359	R195V5P7SHLTQ7	060960581X	395300413	The Jesus Mysteries: Was the "Original Jesus" a Pagan God?	Books	4	33	40	N	N	A product of the human mind	For anyone who as ever thought that the story of Christ is the product of the human mind and nothing more, then the confirmation of your suspicion is within this book. What's more, the authors argue, it's not even an 'original' product of the human mind. <br />The authors demonstrate that what most Christians believe to be the true and inspiring story of their Lord and Saviour is actually a Judaicised version of the oft-told pre-Christ tales of the dying and reviving God-man known variously as Mithras, Osiris and Dionysus to name a few, a widespread Mediterranean mystery cult. Virtually nothing that Christ said or did wasn't already said or done by these metaphorical God-men before He supposedly existed. In fact the only real difference between this Gnostic pagan religion and Christianity is that Christians happen to believe that their version is literally true. Something comparable to every culture having written a version of Moby Dick but one group claiming that Ahab and his whale were real.   A history of church building shows that a lot of Christian churches throughout Europe were built on top of the sacred sites of these mystery cults.<br />It has long been argued that Christianity has acquired pagan overtones wherever it has spread. This book turns that thesis on it's head by producing evidence that this pagan cult actually acquired Jewish characteristics when it tried to penetrate Judaea. This is probably why the Jews (who let's remember were expecting a Messiah two thousand years ago) never recorded the existence of Jesus and quite rationally do not acknowledge the credentials of a Messiah who is but a new facet of a religion they were familiar with because of the spread of Greek culture.<br />Sure, this book is written in the usual &quot;hidden conspiracy&quot; style displayed in Holy Blood/Holy Grail but that's just to shift the book from the shelves. An awful lot of detective work has gone into this book and, as others have pointed out, serious scholarship and that's what makes it a must read. If Creationists are going to argue Genesis alongside evolution in classrooms, the least we should expect is this book alongside relgious insruction in our churches. Then we'd see just who is right.	2000-11-29
US	49984359	R2VZ6TL6WR3LCL	019286212X	150521951	The Meme Machine (Popular Science)	Books	5	8	12	N	N	Makes you think	In this intriguing book, Blackmore picks up the ball of meme theory and runs with it. In my opinion I think she runs too far with it when she should stop and touch down at some point but it is still a book that will make you question exactly what you know.<br />One of the areas in which I find Blackmore's take on meme theory is the idea of self andf that self being &quot;just a bunch of memes&quot; or a selfplex in her own terminology. I think there is adequate evidence outside of memetics that points to personality being somewhat more than this. For instance, psychologists studying the effects of brain damage on personality, the effects of chemicals and drugs, twin studies and the numerous methods psychologists employ in defining character types all indicate other influences on personality than basically the acquisition of ideas and I think Blackmore realises this and fails to address it sufficiently. <br />Where I feel memetics to be somewhat weak in the above case it is very very strong when it comes to the psychology of ideas and unlike some reviewers I can see how manipulation and acquisition of more and more complex memes could lead to an increase in brain capacity. This is what is happening with computers after all from the 48k Spectrum to the gigabyte hardrives of today.<br />With regard to religion Blackmore puts her finger on the reason why Western religions do not on the whole trust Eastern religions. She describes meditation as an inoculation of the mind against memes. This is why Western religions do not like Eastern ones as the emphasis is on the individual possessing clear thought and concentration to find their own answers whilst purging their mind of distracting memes. Once this practice is taken up it's hard for a western religion to get it's foot in the door and hand it's own views down from on high. Western religions seem to be pretty much down on any type of thinking, be it philosophy or science.<br />Some Christians attempt to synthesize Buddhism/Taoism and Christianity saying they all tap into the same thing. With the aid of meme theory we can see this as false. Whereas in Eastern religion meditation aims to negate the selfplex and permit access to the inner self which really makes the decisions, Christians have learnt the simple trick of convincing themselves there is a Christ to love and thus kicking in their own endorphins, the bodies natural opiates. This is why they are &quot;high&quot; on God, they're basically Jesus junkies.<br />In contrast the Eastern philosopher is looking for their centre (in the martial arts) or the &quot;zone&quot; as it is known in sport. The region where Musashi tells us thought becomes no thought and action/no action and the universe can be perceived in a subtly different way. As Blackmore states this is a serene mind state in which distraction can be ignored and reaction comes naturally (300 milliseconds quicker in sport or combat according to Blackmore). Anyone who's read an action novel will be familiar with the phrase &quot;in that split-second&quot;. Now you know what it means.<br />Sadly the Eastern religions such as Buddhism have been affected by what I term the Alexander meme. Before Alexander the great reached India for 300 years Buddha was just a man. After Alexander the idea that men could be worshipped as Gods was taken on by some sects with the result that people make offerings and pray to Buddha. Historians reckon that Christ has also fallen victim to the Alexander meme (if he actually existed and there a half a dozen good reasons to assume he never did) with the result we see all around us.<br />And this is just what meme theory can tell us of religion. In this book it can and does explain a lot more. So inoculate your mind. And a note to those who think just because she quotes Marx the author is a Marxist, this book strikes me as undoubtedly Buddhist and the two don't really go together, ask the Tibetans.	2000-11-28
US	49984359	R3OSCKC733LE1P	0140092501	887185706	Chaos: Making a New Science	Books	4	3	5	N	N	My brain hurts !	But it's worth it. Unlike several readers below who complain there's not enough mathematics in the book, I for one am glad there's no more than there is. I found the book a more difficult read than &quot;A Brief History of Time&quot; so if you haven't finished that one then beware of this.<br />That said &quot;Chaos&quot; is a truly fascinating book which describes the conception, birth and maturation of chaos theory through the author's many interviews with the people who developed it. It was wonderful to read of each scientist in their various fields having their own personal &quot;eureka&quot; moment when they glimpsed the pattern of chaos.<br />I have a couple of questions after having finished it. Firstly, why is it called chaos when it follows laws that can be modelled by equations and has patterns that are observable ? And secondly, is the answer to the universe 4.669 ?	2000-11-16
US	49984359	R1LLN6CB3J312N	0921714041	266241078	Prince of Darkness: Antichrist and the New World Order	Books	3	10	23	N	N	Frightening	That's not frightening as in &quot;Wow, this might happen&quot; but frightening in the fact that someone has managed to convince themselves that something like this going to happen anyway. The author has managed to convince himself that Satan stalks the Earth and is about to bring about Armageddon by instituting a one-world government that will try to destroy Israel to prevent the Second Coming of the Messiah, Jesus Christ. He uses obscure Biblical prophecies and a somewhat incoherent vision of world history and current events to 'prove' this.<br />A fascinating conspiracy theory but I'd liek to calm the hysteria with a few common-sense objections of my own.<br />1. There have only ever been four Empires the author states. The Assyrian, the Greek, the Egyptian and the Roman. Well for a start let's ask whether the Mongols didn't have an Empire, the Ottoman's, &quot;Emperor&quot; Napoleon must likewise have ruled something deserving of the name, the Austro-Hungarian empire, the Byzantine empire and the biggest world empire ever - the British Empire that ruled one quarter of the Earth's surface. These are not empires then ? Could've fooled me. Compared to these the author's empires, with the exception of Rome, are flash in the pan affairs, Alexander's so-called Empire lasted as long as he did and he died at 33. The auhtor does not know his history.<br />2. Likewise he praises the Christian martyrs who were killed by the Catholic church in the early middle-ages without seeming to realise these so called Christians were Gnostic heretics who didn't believe Christ literally walked the Earth and figured no-way could you nail an immaterial God to a cross.<br />3. He states that Satan, as head of a united Europe, will offer Israel a seven-year protection treaty, and this after God has appeared and destroyed the combined military might of all of Russia and all the Arab states. Given then that no further threat exists to Israel who must be basking in the knowledge that God is on their side again I have to ask exactly who this protection treaty is supposed to be against ? After such a demonstration of God's might who would dare to have a crack at invading Israel ? Assuming any Arabs are left alive they must surely know that Allah does not wish them to invade Israel unless they're utterly stupid to have not learned their lesson.<br />4. After this event the Israelis are supposed to then recognise Satan as the  Messiah and be taken in. I doubt it after the events above unless they're stupid too.<br />5. Satan's forces after occupying the Holy Land are to be attacked by a massive Asian army coming to the aid of Christ. As if Asians, who don't believe in Him in the first place, would. Also a few messy nukes in Pakistan would ensure that any Asians reaching the Middle East would have severe radiation sickness. As if Satan, who the author reckons is some kind of military genius, woudln't do something similar instead of just sitting and watching this 200-million strong army come at him. (And also the author hasn't considered the logistic problems of 200 million troops massing, maneuvering and being fed, note for him, it's impossible).<br />6. And does he think Satan would be so stupid, given that presumably Satan has read the Bible too, that he would go anywhere near Megiddo in Israel ? If he reads this book he can avoid every supposed trap in his way. If Satan wants to rpevent Christs Second Coming then all he has to do is simply - nothing.<br />There are more objections, many more, and anyone with a critical mind can spot the large gaping holes in the author's thesis. But since all the supposed deadlines for this conspiracy have passed and Europe is still as fragmented as it ever was I don't think his thesis is anything to worry about. What is worrying is the amount of rot the brain undergoes when it's filled with Judaeo-Christian claptrap. Frightening in fact, so much so that if the author were actually right, I'd sign up for Satan straight away.	2000-11-07
US	49984359	R1V7CLPSSGIOQO	0316180661	358661477	Consciousness Explained	Books	4	22	35	N	N	Anaesthetics	That's it. That's all you need to know. Anaesthetics. They turn off your consciousness you know. Just like that. We don't know how but they do. Your body still functions but you are not conscious. So if your soul can be switched off by a chemical then I think it's safe to say your soul is entirely material and from what we know it seems to arise when there is a certain amount of electrochemical activity in the brain. Drop below that level and your soul (consciousness, call it what you will) switches off. Dennett knows what it's all about. <br />Wow, God defeated by chloroform. Isn't that something ?	2000-10-18
US	49984359	RU67TH21VV5SU	071673561X	379897019	How We Believe: The Search for God in an Age of Science	Books	4	17	24	N	N	Note to the Greek below	Please note that the title of the book is &quot;How we Believe&quot; and not &quot;Why we believe&quot; and this is probably why Shermer doesn't cover the notion that you believe because you think it to be true.  <br />           It must be pointed out that there are some 1500 religious viewpoints in the world and they are all contradictory. It goes without saying that only one of them (if indeed any are) could be true and I fail to see, when every believer thinks his religion IS the truth, why Shermer should give preferential consideration to any one over the other. Either he treats all equally in which case it would be a very long book or he treats belief in itself as something worthy to be investigated.<br />          If he pulls arguments from 700 years ago to examine I would suggest that although theists have had millenia they haven't come up with many logical arguments and all the modern ones are essentially variants of the old and hackneyed cosmological, teleological and ontological arguments the which were refuted ages ago. Dress them up all you like but they're still logically flawed.  <br />                       Claims that Shermer is being unscientific don't hold water, if he glosses over Behe maybe it's because he's heard unlike some wishful-thinking theists, that Behe's arguments were in the process of becoming old hat whilst he was writing them and are evaporating like morning dew with the progress of our understanding. Never believe anyone who can claim that their faith is grounded in reason and science, they've kidded themselves and they're trying to kid you.	2000-10-17
US	49984359	RKSJMKTW4PAIT	0395883822	750191808	Unweaving the Rainbow: Science, Delusion and the Appetite for Wonder	Books	3	2	4	N	N	Not Dawkins best, but still...	It's disappointing to compare this book with the Dimbleby Lecture he gave before he published it. Dawkins' points were much better put in the hour or so of the lecture than they are in this book. That said it's still worth shelling out for as the message is important even if it isn't delivered with Dawkins' usual clarity, wit and style.<br />           In response to the viewer below here's a few things to consider :- 1. A lot of GM plants are modified to be infertile thus cross-pollination may not occur at all. Critics seem to envisage potatoes crossing with different species, ignoring the fact that a lot of potatoes can't even pollinate other potatoes. I would suggest the risk to be a lot less than the reviewer seems to indicate. 2. Likewise critics of GM seem to think that this DNA can get into our own systems. If that were the case they'd be vegetables already (or maybe they are....) 3. GM foods can be engineered to be more nutritious, drought resistant or pest resistant, and have a greater resistance to spoilage. This is a great help for third world people who are the ones suffering from hunger rather than us in the west. To deny them this technology is to literally condemn them to needless death.<br />          The scientists don't know all the answers but for Gods sake can we let them find out without interference from Green Luddites ? After all we've had nuclear power for decades and we don't have  any 50 foot mutant ants so far.            And I personally wouldn't declare myself the enemy of an author on emotional grounds alone, I'd need a decent reason to do so. Surely whether the author is right must have some bearing on the worth of their work ?	2000-10-16
US	49984359	R2Y84RXD4FXH84	0684827549	667246406	DARWIN'S BLACK BOX: The Biochemical Challenge to Evolution	Books	2	8	25	N	N	Mopping up guerillas	It is a testament to the advancement of science that a few years down the road, Behe's arguments are evaporating like fog under a hot sun. That is not to say that it's pointless to read Behe, indeed, he should be thanked for raising questions that needed answering. Obviously the small stuff, the nitty-gritty, needs sorting out so that evolution has a full and rich explanation.<br />           It does make me laugh though at how Behe and the other faithful have looked upon this work as somehow being central to any discussion about God and/or evolution. Frankly this is a mere sideshow skirmish in a war that was lost on another front in the 19th century. And all Behe and those who quote him are doing is trying to fight a guerilla resistance after their main force has been smashed.<br />            The real decisive battle took place on the field of logic and reason after the German Biblical scholars had revealed that the Bible was about as factual a historical document as the National Enquirer. Every logical argument put forward for God in the last four millenia was put to the test and found flawed. In essence every proposition that ended &quot;therefore God exists&quot; was disproved by a counter-argument stating &quot;thus theism is false&quot;. And if every logical argument for God has been disproved, then I think I can go out on a limb and state unequivocally that &quot;God cannot exist&quot;. If he could, he must be logically possible, but every logical argument has failed.  <br />          So Behe and his minions can go ahead and try to disprove evolution and hunt for evidence for their theory because it doesn't matter. All the evidence in the world cannot cause a being whose existence is impossible to exist. Which, as an aside, shows that all those who say &quot;all true scientists must be agnostic&quot; are guilty of wishful thinking. Behe gets two stars for raising interesting questions but loses the other three for his blatant agenda and adherence to a lost cause.<br />Taudarian@yahoo.com	2000-10-15
US	49984359	RM49F16PFIFI4	0195014766	459752409	The Art of War	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Genius of simplicity	Genius of simplicity was Sun Tzu's great achievement in writing this, probably the greatest treatise on war strategy ever penned.<br />  For anybody who has ever inflicted the mind-numbingly dull Clausewitz on himself this is an invigorating blast of fresh air. Just thirteen chapters covering just about every essential thing you may need to know about war, strategy and tactics in such simple terms you slap your forehead in such disgust that you didn't think of them sooner. A comparison to Clausewitz is easy, Clausewitz tells you how to gear a state so that one army can crush another. Sun Tzu advises that the enemies army is one of the last targets you should have in mind and if you can win without fighting in the first place then so much the better. Clausewitz doesn't consider the alternatives at all.<br />  I agree with one previous reviewer, we shouldn't let our officers pass out if they can't quote this verbatim. Read this along with Musashi to understand strategy at all levels.	2000-09-24
US	49984359	R1U6BPCFZ4PA84	0517415283	850830152	Book of Five Rings: The Classic Guide to Strategy	Books	5	7	9	N	N	The helix of learning	One of the most illuminating books I have ever read and one of the best works on strategy ever written. Musashi takes the reader into the world of helical learning. The novice sets off understanding the book at face value and as his understanding of strategy gets more advanced through study, he comes to the realization that the advanced techniques are actually the basics, the same but taken to a higher level. He has gone full circle and arrived at the beginning but at a higher level than whence he started.<br />         But it doesn't stop there, making the circuit again and again and each time rising ever higher in understanding he progresses through the purely physical applications into the mental and spiritual applications of Musashi's ideas thus honing mind, body and spirit and fusing it to will, showing him how to succeed in adversity.<br />         A timeless classic and life-changing book.	2000-09-24
US	49984359	R22E1UX104DLIS	0375501037	191715854	Darwin's Ghost: The Origin of the Species Updated	Books	5	4	5	N	N	The rumpled charmer strikes again !	One of Britain's foremost publicisers of science weighs in again with a  classic update of a classic book. <br />        Bringing the reader bang up to  date with the current state of play in evolution he backs up Darwin's  observances with knowledge we have (and still are) acquiring since  &quot;Origin&quot; was published. He acknowledges where there are still  gaps in our knowledge with the theory but gives convincing evidence  pointing to the answers to our conundrums being not too far away and in any  event, hardly any threat to what is now the accepted model, as  Creationist's desperately hope.<br />          Written clearly and easily  understandable to the layman and leavened with the author's wry wit and  expert knowledge of matters genetic, this is one the best pop science books  to have on your shelf, so what are you waiting for ? - go ahead and buy it  !	2000-09-13
US	49984359	R1R71FZXYGYIFY	068482471X	877375023	DARWIN'S DANGEROUS IDEA: EVOLUTION AND THE MEANINGS OF LIFE	Books	4	0	7	N	N	Educating Joshua	In this work, Dennett gives a good overview of the current state of play  involving Darwin's theory and it's multitudinous impacts on biology, AI,  philospohy, religion and more, explaining just why it has had such a  widespread impact in the first place and what the true ramifications of it  are. In his introduction he himself says that he is not trying to persuade  through argument since there are those unwilling to be persuaded by  argument in the first place but is rather trying to tell a story of what  has happened and where we are at. <br />          It is evident that many of  those who won't be persuaded by argument have read this book and reviewed  it below with predictable scores, venting their indignation in the process.  C'est la vie, but don't let that dissuade anybody who wants to make their  own decisions (as opposed to having their decisions made for them by Gould  or indeed God) from reading what is (or seems to me to be at least) a  remarkably level-headed book that contains less than a thimbleful of the  rage in the one-star review in defence of Gould posted 25th August.<br />          Dennett's purpose in explaining Darwin is to point out that the theory  needs ,nor indeed leaves no room for, skyhooks (miracles, mysteries,  exceptions - call them what you will according to your own agendas) and  stands alone without crutches defining and indeed embodying in it's history  a remarkable theory.        <br />         On it's own, as Dennett admits, it  is not going to persuade anybody convinced of their specialness but if such  a reader butts his head against this and then other volumes by scientists  concerning Darwinism, eventually, like JOSHUA (the computer in the movie  WarGames) who played tic-tac-toe over and over, they will come to realise  that their stance on Darwin is wrong and they cannot win.<br />          If  they can't then perhaps they should be consigned to a museum. I wouldn't  confine them in a cage as some think Dennett is suggesting for their  holding dangerous views. If their views are dangerous then maybe  confinement in Oswiecim with a few tins of Zyklon-B as has been suggested  by some last century might well be the remedy (inhumane though it may be)  for such dangerous views.	2000-09-06
US	49984359	RIZSW2IHB12OZ	1851681167	991379468	God, Chance and Necessity	Books	5	13	40	N	N	Highly recommend this book to theists............	.........because it's so easy to dismantle the arguments contained within. I laugh with glee when a theist comes at me with arguments based on this  book because they couldn't be worse prepared. I do atually wonder if Ward  is not in fact a closet atheist who is out to wreak mischief on poor  unsuspecting Christians.<br />       For instance, he uses the argument put  forth by St Anselm centuries ago, an argument that was refuted almost as  soon as it appeared. It basically goes &quot;if I can imagine God existing,  therefore he exists&quot; - but anyone with half a brain will immediately  notice that you can use this &quot;logical&quot; argument to prove Santa  Claus, the tooth fairy or planets filled with clones of Traci Bingham. His  other arguments are similarly weak and the rest of his work is a tirade  against Richard Dawkins. For &quot;scientific&quot; backup of his theories  he, like other theists, quote people like cosmologist Wickramasinghe. For  those who don't know, this is a man who recently suggested that the  pyramids were air-raid shelters against meteorites. This puts him and  people like Ward et al who use him firmly in Von Daniken-land.    <br />          So if you're a theist I can't recommend this work enough and if you're a  scientist, read it for a laugh at the quality of opposition you're facing  at the beginning of the 21st century.<br />        taudarian@yahoo.com	2000-08-21
US	49984359	R27EANKFGPLTXN	0393315703	194483165	The Blind Watchmaker: Why the Evidence of Evolution Reveals a Universe without Design (Reissued in 2006 and 1996)	Books	5	12	17	N	N	Readable, enlightening and witty - a real Holy Trinity	In my view there are a number of pros in favour of this book and after  many debates only one con, which is why I must say it is one of my  favourite books in popular science and one of the most enjoyable two on  evolution in particular (Steve Jones' rewrite of Darwins 'Origin'-  &quot;Almost Like a Whale&quot; being the other).<br />          Of the pros,  I find Dawkins ability to explain clearly scientific concepts and fresh  ideas to the layman an essential skill that he has a great grasp of (though  he allowed himself to stray a little in later books such as Unweaving the  Rainbow). Admittedly the fundamental ideas of evolution are easily  graspable anyway but Dawkins points out himself that many think they know  evolution but fail to grasp it. Dawkins explains it clearly in this book  which stands as the scientific rebuttal to the teleological argument for  God, the &quot;Watchmaker&quot; argument. Hence the title. <br />           Another pro is Dawkins use of analogy to get the point across. Again people  miss the point of his computer simulation, the biomorphs, which are nothing  more than a demonstration that many accumulated small changes can turn  something simple into something complex. Arguments that he was selectively  breeding them miss the point, he could quite as easily (though for time  considerations didn't) have left his simulation running and sorted through  the results at the end with no interference. He was demonstrating that from  one beginning point you could end up with myriad variations, which is what  evolution was posited to explain in the first place.<br />        Another pro  is Dawkins dry wit and humour which never goes amiss in any book on science  (a spoonful of sugar etc). I found myself smiling a lot and laughing out  loud at some passages such as the section on polar bear camouflage when he  has at an ignorant critic who can't see any advantage in the bears being  white. These asides and others dotting the text make this book apleasure  to read.<br />        Why can I only find one con when many reviewers below  ponder several ? Well, I was invited by a friend to debate several of them  who was at the end of his tether after doing the same and I've noticed a  few things. For a start all of them were theists and all their objections  to this and Dawkins other works stem from prior religious belief. Secondly,  I noticed their objections resulted several ways; they either plain  misunderstood Dawkins though this was rare; or they hadn't actually read  him (you know who you are); or more sinisterly they were deliberately  misreading him and quoting him out of context to promote their own agenda  in a manner similar to the revisionist historians who deny the  holocaust.<br />                When confronted in debate it quickly becomes  clear that they have a small library of works they popularly use in their  arguing (such as the works of so-called creation scientists and laughable  tomes such as God, Chance and Necessity by Ward). When they exhaust the  arguments in these books they then either try to restate them in new words  being bereft of imagination to conjure up new arguments or duck rapidly  into the language of mysticism and claim their beliefs are immune to  logical attack and how they are entitled to their own opinion (does anybody  else find it funny after two millenia of Christian oppression in which you  weren't allowed to disbelieve in God, when the boot is on the other foot  how quickly they claim victim status ?).<br />        You get a lot of this  role reversal, anybody else also noticed how they condemn Dawkins for  arrogance but expect us to credit them with being better zoologists than  he, better geneticists than Jones, better psychologists than Jung or  Pinker, better mathematicians than Newton, better cosmologists than Sagan,  better philosophers than Hume or Russell etc etc. Arrogance ! They don't  know the meaning of the word, nor apparently irony either. When faced with  these wondrous theist polymaths one has to ask why we aren't reading their  books or hearing of their Nobel prizes ?<br />        Anyway, the one con I  found ? Well, unlike theist critics I don't think Dakwins was anywhere near  as scathing towards theism as I think they deserve. It's a minor point,  after all he was trying to explain evolution. I hope he devotes his next  book entirely to picking over the corpse of theism pulling in knowledge not  just from his own discipline but from cosmology, astronomy, geology,  psychology, philosophy and history and many other fields which don't  concord with this so-called alternative. Now that would be a great read.	2000-08-13
US	49984359	R2BU4A51NP6LVT	0393316823	973190756	Climbing Mount Improbable	Books	4	3	7	N	N	Untenable critique more like	If we use as a gauge of the worth of a theory the amount of time and effort someone spends in knocking it down then it is clear that Dawkins'  take on evolution must have a lot going for it.<br />      The reviewer below  states that Dawkins says that &quot;mutation is random but selection is  not&quot;. Perfectly true and I can't see what warranted the exclamation  mark signifying the reviewers incredulity. If a mutation is beneficial then  it's selection is MORE likely; like a weighted dice any element of true  randomness goes out the window. Moreover, with reference to his points  about randomness in gene shuffling, eye colour genes only shuffle with eye  colour genes thus making each couple a population of two and by his own  definition &quot;non-random&quot;. Or he could be referring to population  of organisms and the shuffling of genes between members thereof. Again,  using propensity theory of chance we see the blindingly obvious, that those  genes that make an organism sexually atrractive are MORE likely to get  passed on, this is why Playboy sells and why the reviewer has utterly no  chance of marrying Claudia Schiffer, who tends to pick famous  millionaires.<br />        It's absurdly easy to pick flaws with the below  reviewers objections and it is clear he argues not from a scientific  perspective but from a theistic one, witness his parting allusion to the  &quot;better theory&quot; of God. But by his own arguments we should reject  theism because it has spent 3000 years trying to justify itslef by  sophistry and circumlocution and has gotten nowhere in this regard. When  challenged to expand on his objections he couldn't, nor could he rebut any  other points which were put to him in private debate. <br />        The fact  is, through engaging with negative reviewers in debate, it's clear that the  only people who dislike this and Dawkins' other works have some prior  belief in a God. So, if you want to know what the book is like read the  reviews by non-theists because they're the only reliable guide to it's  worth. Personally, it's not his best work and people would be better  sending for his Royal Institution lectures on the matter on video which are  much more accessible.	2000-08-07
