US	49996158	R20THCI1M989EE	1550225480	574502061	Ghost Rider: Travels on the Healing Road	Books	3	8	10	N	N	Facing Tough Times	Summary:<BR>Ghost Rider is a book of letters, and travelogue of Rush drummer Neil Peart. He lost his daughter and wife in less than a years time. Rather than taking his own life, he gets on his BMW motorcycle, and travels around Canada, the U.S., Mexico and Belize, trying to let time and distance heal his loss. While narrating his travels, he writes letters to various friends, and especially Brutus, who was his riding companion before tragedy struck. However, we find Brutus in jail for drug trafficking charges! During the course of the book, Neil discusses his emotions, inward and outward, the scenery around him, wildlife and weather. <br />Books pluses:<BR>The traveling itself, and the many locations Neil discovers, the sense of adventure, although he says do not envy him, and I for one do not. I would not want to suffer through a tragedy as his, but everyone suffers, not just a famous rock drummer. Another journal entry, says deal with it. It is good to have friends and family to support you though. You see Neil Peart for who he really is, or was, as it seemed his life turns around in the end, as he meets and marries, Carrie, 2+ years after his wife dies. <br />Negatives: <BR>Although I would be angry, depressed...etc after losing almost everything, I would not esteem myself above others, as Neil does throughout the book. He says things, that make it look as if he is above everyone else, and that most of the rest of humanity is drudge. Neil mentions, in particular, of Americans being overweight, and waddling around. Well, he smokes and drinks, like that is a healthy lifestyle, despite his hikes, swims...etc.<br />Also, too many letters to Brutus. As another reviewer pointed out, maybe he should have married him. Although, Brutus is his best friend, and I can understand keeping in contact.<br />Finally:<BR>Rush fans should not expect lots of info about the band...etc. What this book offers is a lone journey of Neil throughout the country, with a winter and summer sabbatical at his lake home in Quebec. His writing style, and vocabulary are exceptional, mainly apart from his personal letters. Most people could not afford, financially to take such a long journey throughout 4 countries, to reflect and piece their life together as Neil, who has someone looking after his estate at home. <br />Traveling on the Healing Road. Well, Neil, hope you are healing.  A recommendation on a motorcycle trip is the Blue Ridge Parkway across Virginia and North Carolina.	2003-10-02
US	49996158	R2OJQL1MUPFI09	0515128694	520803365	Carrier 15: Enemies	Books	1	1	1	N	N	Reader is the Enemy	Summary...<BR> Greeks and Macedonians are having a border dispute. The Greeks claim that Macedonia is theres...etc...etc. The U.S. gets drawn in after a news chopper is brought down by the wash from a Greek Tomcat, who gets too close. Tombstone has been relegated to be an advisor to Greek General Arkady. Arkday has other plans, as he wants to have a full scale war with the Macedonians. The Jefferson and its crew have a few skirmishes with the Macedonians and eventually the Greeks. The Americans find themselves trying to figure out who the enemy is.<br />Likes...<BR>Some on the ground scenes, with the downed Hornet pilot Murphy, and ACN Newsperson, Pamela Drake, avoiding the bombing run of the Greeks and Americans on the Macedonian camp.<br />Dislikes...<BR>Everything else. This was a poorly written and edited book. Almost every page had grammatical errors, that a pre-schooler would catch. Time sequences were way off early in the book...as were a couple locations. This had to be one of the worst edited books I've read. Come on, Penguin Putnam, are you paying your authors and editors minimum wage?<br />Also, as previous reviewer noted, the ending was incomplete. At the end of one chapter Thor is trying to avoid getting shot down, and then that's it. The conflict gets resolved in the next chapter, and nothing is mentioned about Arkady. What happened to him? What happened to Thor. You do not get too many aerial battle scenes with this book. <br />Finally...<BR>  Glad this book was only 261 pages. Another 100, and I would have to trash it. Have looked ahead at the previous reviewers review of the next couple of Carrier books and it doesn't look promising. The ST7 series by Douglass is much better at the moment.	2003-08-23
US	49996158	R34L7RTVB2YF6	0312969937	554035045	Vespers	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Educational	Summary:<BR>  Vespers is about a couple of mutated bats that have been descended from one radioactive bat in Siberia, brought to this country, by a scientist. The story starts off by a little leaguer being mauled by normal, insect eating bats, in a town north of NYC. Upon further investigation, authorities find a full sized deer strung several feet up a tree, with teeth marks. <BR>Enter Nancy Joyce, bat expert, and detective Robert Gentry. <br />A larger bat is on the loose, the size of a bull, using echolocation and its non human squeals to have the smaller vespers attack people. This big bat makes its way to the NYC subway system, while people go missing. <br />Joyce and Gentry track the origin of the mutated bat down to a man in New Paltz, New York, who was in Siberia 10 years earlier. In New Paltz, they see evidence of another large bat. So, there are two to deal with. One a male, the other a pregnant female. <br />Gotta destroy the bats, before she gives birth to more large mutated bats, that feast on humans, and in the populated environs of New York City.<br />Likes: For me, this was a very educational book. Learning how bats behave, and locate their food, send signals to other bats...etc. It was an average thriller, although I've read better horror books with bats involved, this was more science orieneted. Also a little history lesson on the Statue of Liberty!<br />Dislikes: The story was somewhat lame, and rarely did I feel like I was in a state of suspense. Pretty predictable.<br />Finally: Don't mix radioactive waste with the animal kingdom, a la Godzilla, you never know what could happen.	2003-07-13
US	49996158	R1KWIBNE976YZV	0553089285	28503180	The Courtship of Princess Leia (Star Wars)	Books	5	13	14	N	N	Don't let the title mislead you...	...into thinking this is a romance novel, Star Wars style.<br />Summary:<BR>The novel starts off on Coruscant, with Leia welcoming an entourage from Hapes. Hapes and its other worlds, have plenty to offer to the newly formed Republic, 4 years after ROTJ. One surprise, is Prince Isolder, who wants Leia as his wife, and eventually the queen mother of Hapes. She starts to fall for him, and this makes Han very jealous. He wins a planet in a sabacc game, called Dathomir. He kidnaps Leia, and takes her here to try to win her back.<br />This planet is orbited by Zsinj, a warlord from the remnants of the Empire. Han and Leia, along with Chewie and C-3PO crash land on the planet. They find that this planet has more than meets the eye. Luke comes searching for them, along with Isolder. The planet is full of surprises, including rancors, much larger than the one in ROTJ, that was in Jabba's palace. Even more dangerous are these witches, called the Nightsisters, who possess the Force, and use it for evil. Come to find out, the Emperor himself, was afraid of them. Leia and Han come in contact with a clan of good witches, called the Mountain Clan. This sets up a struggle between the two clans, with Leia, Han and Luke involved.<br />Likes: So, not much courtship going on in this novel. This novel has everything I like in a SW novel, interesting, forbidden planet, involving the characters as much as can be expected, and good vs. evil. The evil being pretty strong in this one and Luke struggling with the Nightsisters.<br />Dislikes: None.<br />Finally: Make sure you get this for your SW novel collection.	2003-06-24
US	49996158	RDQ49WPV17E03	0310234697	410592075	The Case for Faith: A Journalist Investigates the Toughest Objections to Christianity	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Answers to Questions About Christian Faith	Lee Strobel investigates 8 of the &quot;biggest&quot; questions, or challenges to the Christian faith is this followup to &quot;The Case for Christ&quot;.<br />I thought Lee did an okay job on finding scholars and theologins, who could bring up valid points that point to why suffering happens, why do people go to hell, evolution...etc.<br />Some of the experts had good responses, but I would have liked Lee to interview more than one person about each topic. Overall, A lot of their remarks, reaffirmed most of what I have heard before in church, and my personal beliefs. I disagreed with J.P. Moreland's view of hell without flames. In the book of Luke, which was not brought up, Jesus mentioned the rich man in hell who wanted Lazarus, the beggar, to give him just one drop of water, due to the torment in the flames. If hell has no flames, then why does the bible mention it, lake of fire, why not lake of darkness, or ice or whatever.<br />Anyway, this is a good book to study and take with you to church and discuss in Sunday School, or Bible Study. However, Lee could have interviewed even more, but guess he did not want to make a book more than 500 pages.<br />By the way, I wonder if Charles Templeton ever gave his life back to the Lord?	2003-06-02
US	49996158	R144U6DQ2HGX9	0310218039	810531498	Eli	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Reality Of Christ	Summary of book:<BR>  Story surrounds journalist Conrad Davis living in southern California, cheated on wife, estranged from daughter Julia. An accident on the California highway sends him into a coma. While in a coma, he awakens in a parallel universe, same as ours, except for the fact that Jesus did not come to Earth 2,000 years ago, but today. And his name is Eli Shepherd. From witnessing Eli's birth in a laundry mat in the early 70s...then time traveling to present day in this parallel universe, where he becomes one of Eli's disciples, Conrad comes to the realization that he is empty. The book shifts from Conrad and other disciples following Eli across the U.S. in the parallel world, to Conrad lying in a coma, practically brain dead, in the this world, while daughter Julia, who has Power of Attorney to pull the plug on her dad's life, combats this decision. We see Eli performing miracles, telling parables and eventually making enemies of the religious elite, i.e. present-day Pharisees. While Conrad follows Eli, he becomes overwhelmed by how much love Eli shows to others despite any opposition or vocal abuse one sends his way. <BR>  In the present world, Conrad's life appears to be ebbing away, and Julia, who like her dad, left her spouse, is reminiscing about how her dad failed at his promises when she was younger, but still struggling whether to let the hospital take him off life support. <BR>  The book goes back and forth between these two worlds, with Conrad working out his faith, and belief in Eli, i.e. Jesus. Apparently the Lord has given him a chance even while in a coma to come to Him.<br />Likes:<BR>  The concept of Jesus not being born in Bethlehem 2000 years ago, but today in the U.S. and how the world would be different. Bill Myers parallels the story in the Bible to a present day fictional account. The book sent various emotional responses to me, ranging from love for others, to compassion and sadness for what Eli/Jesus went through on everyone's behalf. The story engrossed me. One scene in particular, I liked, was a tornado bearing down on where the disciples were hidden in a storm cellar in Kansas. Meanwhile, Eli is walking toward them, with the twister about 100 yards to his left, and Jake, who paralled, the disciple Peter, emerges from the storm cellar, and walks to Eli, keeping his eyes on him. As he draws closer, his eyes and focus shift from Eli to the tornado. The tornado starts to pick him up, then Eli grabs hold of him, and eventually the tornado dissipates. This of course, relates to the biblical account of Peter, walking on the water, and losing his faith and focus on Jesus, starts to sink.<br />Dislikes:<BR> The rush at the end when Eli is &quot;crucified&quot;, and resurrectes on the third day. Felt that Bill Myers could have spent more time on this scene.<br />Final Thoughts:<BR>  This book could be used as a witnessing tool, to those who love to read, but do not know Christ. The Bible, of course, is the first and foremost book, to go to for the way to salvation, but Eli, I believe, can help people think about their relationshop with God, in an easier to read story. <br />The parallel universe theory must have come from Star Trek.<br />Good job, Bill Myers.	2003-04-26
US	49996158	RBWFMM1J4QW03	0842332340	871070652	Armageddon: The Cosmic Battle of the Ages (Left Behind #11)	Books	4	6	8	N	N	One more to go	Overview/Summary of book...<BR>  Armageddon, the 11th book of the Left Behind Series, picks up with darkness covering Babylon, Tsion Ben-Judah preaching in Petra, and some of the Trib Force, Buck and Chloe in a San Diego hideout. Most of the book deals with the Trib Force running from the GC, some getting caught...and Nicolae preparing to amass his armies in the Valley of Meggido. <BR>  There are still believers, including computer expert, Chang stuck at the palace in Babylon, needing rescuing. Rayford shows up, as the believers can see in this darkness, to pick up Chang, then run into other believers. Meanwhile, the GC are hunting for the Trib Force in San Diego. One character goes out and gets captured, leading to looking for them, and planning a rescue. <BR>  <BR>Likes: Fast paced reading with a few unexpected twists concerning Trib Force members. Some gruesome and probably realistic scenes that will take place during the tribulation are mentioned.<br />Dislikes: Well toward the end of the book, the armies are at the Valley of Meggido, and also advancing on Jerusalem and Petra. But I'm not seeing much action as far as the military scenes go. Lahaye and Jenkins mention tanks, but most of the armies are on horses, which the Bible mentions, but I figure there would be more weapons and armament set up. Basically, unless a good chunk of the Battle of Armageddon continues into the next book, you will be disappointed in the conflict.<br />Finally, this book was better than the Remnant. Lots of unexpected happenings with the good guys. Will we see the Trib Force members survive until the Glorious Appearing?	2003-04-15
US	49996158	RQ1SEXJ3QP1N6	0446364800	859674593	The General's Daughter	Books	3	0	1	N	N	A good mystery...but	Not into reading mysteries...but book was given to me from a co-worker. So I felt it may be good.<br />Summary/Overview...<BR>  Capt. Paul Brenner of the Criminal Investigation Division, along with Cynthia Sunhill are located in the deep south at Fort Hadley, GA. Paul is there as an undercover supply sergeant, trying to solve a case about Dalbert Elkins, who has been supplying arms to Cuban Freedom Fighters. <BR>  However, something more pressing comes up, when the General's Daughter, Ann Campbell is found dead and naked on the rifle range.<BR>  So, Paul and Cynthia, who have had a past, team up to solve this mystery. Lots of suspects with no motives. We find that Ann has a past, and one that has been haunting both her and her family. Paul stumbles upon this in her basement, and the story is set. By interviewing several of her acquaintences, the blurry trail to the murderer becomes clearer. And they have a couple of days to finish, as the FBI, will then take over the investigation.  <br />Likes:<BR>  Written in first person, Paul Brenner. A well thought out mystery, that keeps you guessing as to who killed Ann Campbell and why. Demille develops his characters well, each with varying personalities. Very descriptive with words...although this leads some of the dislikes.<br />Dislikes...<BR>  Obviously...the language, and description of the sex/rape/murder scenes. If it wasn't for this, the book would have scored 4 stars.<br />Finally...would not recommend this book to family or friends because of the language and sexual content. Too bad we cannot have an edited version...which would not take anything away from the story. But given that it is a mystery surrounding the rape/murder of a woman...what can you expect? <br />Based on this...will skip watching the movie, unless it is on network TV.	2003-04-08
US	49996158	R3EBQTKLVWHQ2K	0425177742	700306619	Chopper Ops 3: Shuttle Down	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Military book with a Sci-Fi flavor	Overview of book:<BR>This is the third in a series by Mack Maloney. Same characters are involved again in this story, with some added characters. <BR>Bascially, a military space shuttle has been shot down, and has crashed somewhere in southwest Asia. It is carrying a top secret item, and apparently a lot of the countries in and around the crash site know it. So, there is a race to get to the site of the crash, which is assumed to be located somewhere near the border of Kyrgyzstan and China, in a region called the Paswar. In one word, a no man's land. Involved countries are: the Chopper Ops group from the U.S., China, Kyrgyzstan, Kazakhstan, Tajikistan, India, and a few elements from the Taliban of Afghanistan. A small war ensues as all of these small forces converge on a large volcanic crater in the Paswar, trying to get to the shuttle which is lodged in the snow and ice. Lots of bloodshed for nothing. <br />Meanwhile, Smitz is sent on a wild goose chase by the CIA to find who is behind the stealing of a Soda-Can shaped blimp. This chase eventually leads him to Pakistan. Also, Ricco and Gillis go into training in the Nevada desert on extracting a vehicle stuck in a crater, which eventually leads them overseas to help out the other Chopper Ops crew.<br />Behind this all is the terrorist mastermind, that supposedly, is worse than Osama, and Saddam, named Zim. He has his own troops out to retrieve this shuttle and its precious cargo. <br />So, who gets to space shuttle first is the way this whole things plays out, with a twist.<br />Likes: Action, plot twist toward the end, geographically descriptive.<br />Dislikes: Although it is fiction, it basically is far fetched, especially a 600 pound terrorsit mastermind. Maloney tends to delve into sci-fi with his novels, like the direction he took the Wingman series in, with Starhawk, causing me to end with the last Wingman book. The prior in this series is much better, called Zero Red. <br />Finally, make sure you read the first two before reading this, to understand the characters and their backgrounds. This book was published in Dec. 2000, and the way the ending is, this could be the last in the series, but Maloney has been known to take a few years off from writing on one series.	2003-03-14
US	49996158	R1I8NPUTL053ZR	0800792602	601323194	They Shall Expel Demons: What You Need to Know about Demons - Your Invisible Enemies	Books	3	264	286	N	N	Insight on Demons	Summary of book:<BR>  Derek Prince does a good job of telling us about demons, from how Jesus dealt with them, the origin of the word demon from Greek, his struggle with them, various types of demons and how to combat them. Prince uses Scripture and personal experiences to show us that demons are real, and we as followers of Christ have the authority over them, yet Christians can be oppressed by them and need deliverence.<br />Positives of the book: Scripturarly based, with personal dealings with demons, as well as guidelines Christians should use to expel their own demons, and if you are not a Christian he takes you through steps on becoming a believer. I for one believe in demons. The bible mentions them, and in today's society we tend to shake them off as some mystical creatures that are only symbols of our struggles instead of actual, evil spririts. Prince's example's can be disturbing to some, how demons are expelled and the different noise and/or convulsions people might have when they are delivered. Basically, you can expel a demon, but make sure you are a believer and close to God. If not, it is best to seek a ministry or your pastor to help you. <br />Negatives:<BR>Although I believe in demons, Prince at times puts a demon with every problem we have. Some of the more bizarre examples in the book include 1) A girl getting hit on the head by a baseball, and then suffers from epileptic seizures. Prince explains the injury created a weakness that allowed a demon to enter, and give her these seizures. She was healed according to Prince, which I believe in a healing ministry, but to say demons enter you just because you are bonked on the head, seems a bit far-fetched. Another example of a bizarre demon was someone who suffered from tooth decay. That again seemed stretching it a bit. I have no doubt that people have demons, but sometimes we suffer physical and mental problems, due to plain old sin, and habits such as smoking, drugs or drinking can open the door for Satan to take control, some of this is purely our own doing due to the carnal, sinful nature we inherited when Adam & Eve first sinned.<br />Final thoughts: Be well read with the Word, and follow Prince's examples. He has good, spirit led insight into the world of demons, but do not blame everything on demons or Satan, when you yourself could be at fault.	2003-02-27
US	49996158	R1803SG7JKN6DJ	0671880454	18090860	Blaze of Glory (Star Trek The Next Generation, No 34)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Second good book from Hawke	Boy, Simon Hawke has done the ST universe well. This one also deals with Romulans, and their so called relatives, the K'Trall. The premise of the story is that a pirate named Blaze is pillaging Federation merchant vessels in the K'Tralli sector, and Starbase 37 under command of Captian Gruzinoz, and old friend of Picard's cannot handle the situation. Plus, Blaze has in his possession an old Constitution class ship he names Glory, and it has cloaking capability.<br />Well, Picard and the Enterprise arrive on scene to investigate. With Gruzinov and his security officer Dorn helping, they find that the Romulans and a corrupt K'Tralli overlord, J'Drahn, are trying to get the Federation to leave their territory or break the Prime Directive by intervening. Of course, K'Tralli space is on the Federation side of the Neutral Zone.<br />War with the Romulans seems likely, but after Riker and LaForge get captured by Blaze, things change.<br />Very well paced novel, with good dialogue as well as land and space battles. Hope Simon & Schuster use Hawke's authorship skillks again.	2003-02-10
US	49996158	R17IY8EK8J2MZE	0671520032	576185387	Balance of Power (Star Trek The Next Generation, No 33)	Books	1	5	6	N	N	Poor characterization	Never thought I'd give a Star Trek novel 1 star! But this story was weak, and the Star Trek characters were cardboard and did not fit their personalities, except maybe for Data.<br />Basically, the story centers on Wesley Crusher being kidnapped by Ferengi, after they discover he has a device that countefeits latinum. A big auction of a dead scientists inventions takes place on Novus Alamogordus. The Federation, Klingons, Romulans and Ferengi, among others travel there to bid on these inventions, the biggest of which is the photonic pulse cannon.<br />Using counterfeit latinum, the Ferengi, Munk and Tunk, using Wesley as their slave per se, end up winning most of the items. It's up to Wesley to figure out how to stop the two, while at the same time, not breaching his Ferengi contract, and getting charged with counterfeiting by Starfleet.<br />I thought the writing was deplorable and weak. And when does Picard call everyone by the first name during most of a book or TV show? Except for Data, who was experimenting with a laughter program, the rest of the book drew low interest.	2003-02-03
US	49996158	R2PUQGDMUMCVTL	0671894226	304942529	Federation (Star Trek)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Complex Star Trek Novel	This novel is definitely for Trekkies. I'd give it 4 1/2 stars.<br />Basically, 3 timelines take place. One in the late 21st century, with Zefram Cochrane, the discoverer of greater than light speed travel, being pursued by a madman, one Colonel Adrik Thorsen, who is part of the Optimum movement. This movement sounds similar to 1940's Nazis. He believes Cochrane can create a warp bomb, which would be an ultimate weapon against all enemies of the Movement.<br />In the 2nd timeline, Captain Kirk and crew, are boarded by Admiral Kabreigny, who is wanting an investigation into the disappearence of a vacation ship. She believes Kirk is hiding something in regards to the vanishing of this ship, and that it is related to their visit to Gamma Canaris where Nancy Hedford died. Kirk and crew has a secret concerning Zefram Cochrane, Nancy Hedford and the Companion, that they swore not to reveal to outsiders. So, here in lies a struggle on the ship, plus coming into contact with the missing ship, and a dying Companion, searching for lost Zefram, along with Orion pirates and Klingons.<br />Finally, the third timeline concerns Picard and crew. Ferengi and Romulans are involved here. The premise is that the Ferengi steal Romulan warbirds and have in their possession a Borg artifact, that could help the Federation. Upon some investigation, we learn that not only is there a Borg artifact, inside the artifact itself, is yet another, which appears to have come from the Preservers. Another Romulan ship shows up with a defector. While negotiations are taking place, another Warbird decloaks, and begins to attack both Enterprise and the other Warbirds. <br />The connection between all three timelines is Zefram Cochrane and Adrik Thorsen. Eventually, the old and new come together around a Black Hole, trying to rescue Cochrane.<br />Plenty of dialogue, action, and suspense make this one of the better Trek novels I've read so far. Not 5 stars due to the slow start, but the authors really piece together events pretty well, without getting too bogged down in each timeline.	2003-01-15
US	49996158	R3EW6Y0G5JYQKS	0425172554	310338267	Primary Target	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Did Weber see 9/11 coming?	After about 5 years, Weber finally dishes out a fast paced, current events novel. Shockingly, this story sounds close to what is taking place in the world of terrorism today and not so long ago. <br />Basically, a billionare terrorist in Iran gets weapons help from the Russians, although the Russians do not play much of a role in the main scheme of things. The terrorist organizations in the Middle East have had enough with the U.S. prescence in the Persian Gulf.<br />With terrorist cells planted in the U.S., the plan of Bassam Shakhar, the head of the Iranian terrorist regime, is to down airlines, and target the president of the U.S., to force American forces from the Gulf.<br />Meanwhile, a retired CIA/Naval Aviator, and a current CIA operative, get together under orders from the DIA, to extract an operative from the Bekaa Valley, who has inside information on what Shakhar is up to.<br />A little too late, the cells in the U.S. lead by Khaliq Farkas and Ramazani begin their reign of terror. First, downing an airliner in Dallas, then later, taking control of the communications of the Atlanta ATCC, and sending planes over Hartsfield to the same altitude and position. Air Force One, being one of those planes.<br />Later, we find out a yacht armed with a nuclear warhead is heading toward D.C. to be detonated.<br />Scott and Jackie, the agents, mentioned above have to work together to stop these terrorists. Chapter after chapter, Weber's style keeps you reading til the end.	2002-12-23
US	49996158	R1U4A3K4D3H200	0517154803	56129005	The Truce at Bakura (Star Wars) (Star Wars Series)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Entechment	Truce of Bakura was an easy read and enjoyable. Basically, it takes place shortly after ROTJ. <br />The Rebels receive a distress call from a planet called Bakura, which is under Imperial rule. It is being attacked by a species called the Ssi-ruuk. Their sole purpose...to entech humans into droid fighters and machinery. So, some of the Rebels dispatch to this planet, including the main characters Luke, Leia, Han...etc. They have to deal with the Imperials first, and to somehow work together toward a common enemy.<br />Basically, Leia deals on the diplomatic side, while Luke tries to come up with strategies on helping propel the Ssi-ruuvi species. Of course, during the book, there is distrust amongst both Rebels and Imperials. Leia gets arrested and Han goes after her. The Imperial governor, Nereus, agrees to hand over Skywalker to the Ssi-ruuvi, as long as they leave their system alone. The Ssi-ruuk, want Skywalkers, Jedi energy to help enslave humans at great distances, without having to capture them. <br />A human slave, Dev Sibwarra, helps the Ssi-ruuk, but is constantly struggling with his abilities, and ethics on enteching humans, or helping Skywalker.<br />Will the Rebels and Imperials have a peace so they can fight one common enemy, or are the Rebels walking into a death trap? <br />All in all, this book has lots of action, and any SW fan would enjoy the story.	2002-10-29
US	49996158	R1VA9CI7JAI5SF	055357891X	679067640	Hard Merchandise (Star Wars: The Bounty Hunter Wars, Book 3)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Finale	Was actually disappointed overall with this last installment of the Bounty Hunter Wars trilogy. Yes, there were some mysteries unraveled concerning who was behind erasing Neelah's memory, and who planted Prince Xizor's pheremones near Uncle Owen and Aunt Beru's moisture farm, when they were disintegrated by stormtroopers. Jeter strings us out on a long goose chase to find out Neelah's identity, which wasn't that big a deal. There wasn't much fighting between bounty hunters in this one, as the trilogy name suggests.<br />I, for one, am glad this trilogy is over. Read it, only if you are a big SW fan.	2002-09-26
US	49996158	RKBKNFXNYCSSI	055357888X	701814267	Slave Ship (Star Wars: The Bounty Hunter Wars, Book 2)	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Scheming aplenty	In this second of the Bounty Hunter Wars trilogy, Jeter continues the two time periods, of just after ANH, and during ROTJ. Starting in ROTJ, we find Boba Fett, Neelah and Dengar taking over Bossk's ship the Hound's Tooth, tricking Bossk that a bomb was onboard to get him to jettison in an escape pod and take over. Boba does not want the galaxy to know he is alive, so he ditches Slave I. Neelah is still looking for her true identity, while trying to extract infor from both Dengar and Boba. So, Boba Fett sets in a course to another sector of the galaxy, with no clue on where he's taking us.<br />Besides this, not too much happens in this time frame, except for the plot around Kuat of Kuat and thechallenge by the other bloodlines on the planet to take over his operations. Somehow we find out he planted Falleen pheremomes on Tatooine to make it look like Xizor had Luke's uncle and aunt killed.<br />Most of the action takes place in the setting just after ANH. Bossk and Boba Fett team up to capture this renegade stormtrooper, not knowing thatPrince Xizor has set a trap for Fett, with help from Palpatine and Kud'ar Mub'at, the spider like alien. <br />Pretty good action. You can definitely see that everyone involved in this novel is looking out for number one. We get a lot of dialogue from Boba Fett in this one, which is contrary to what most think his character to be, a bounty hunter of few words.<br />Jeter at times loves to talk, repeating things about certain characters several times during a chapter; like we would forget or something. This tended to string to the book out longer than it should have. At other times, Jeter's writing was great, especially his use of adjectives to describe a planet that Boba Fett and Bossk meet on, where centipede like creatures live, with one wrapping itself around Bossk's ankle.<br />Overall, this was a fair to good SW book. Looking forward to the finale, Hard Merchandise.	2002-09-08
US	49996158	RVTJO2LGZZRK9	0345428811	938075605	Star Wars Episode II: Attack of the Clones	Books	3	5	6	N	N	Sub-par novelization	I'm a huge Star Wars fan, have been one since 1977. This is the worst novelization of any of the Star Wars movies. R.A.'s writing style is not very fluid and he doesn't add to any of the elements found in the movie. I saw the movie three times before reading this book, and could not wait for the descriptions of the Geonosis Arena execution scene...and the ensuing massive Jedi battle. Boy, he flew threw that scene in about three pages, with no value added to the movie.<br />On the only positive note, were a few scenes at the beginning, with Shmi getting abducted by the Tusken Raiders, a couple scenes with Padme's family, and a little more dialogue and thoughts among all the characters. If I was not a SW fan, this novel would have fewer stars. See the movie instead.	2002-08-25
US	49996158	RZDNNQ2RKCTH5	0842332278	112772440	The Remnant: On the Brink of Armageddon (Left Behind)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	A Snail's Pace to a Fast Finish	The first 250 to 300 pages of this book were very slow for me, and took me several days to get through them. Most of the first half of the book deals with rescuing George out of Greece, preaching and teaching in Petra, and a little activity elsewhere. <br />Finally, the authors concentrate more on the bowl judgements toward the latter 1/3 of the book. River and lakes becoming blood, sun scorching everything and total darkness at the end.<br />Basically, the Trib Force is spread across the globe. Some close calls for the group, as Chicago is found to not be &quot;hot&quot;. So, the few still there, must flee elsewhere, as the GC set to actually nuke it. Meanwhile, the crowd at Petra become disgruntled and some who are undecideds are led astray by false prophets in the desert. <br />Overall, if you can manage to trudge through the rescue of George Sebastian, the rest of the book is not bad. Besides, the judgements, there are angels who appear to the crowds, and to the Trib Force. Plus, the authors end the novel just one year away from the end of the Great Tribulation. So, two novels left should cover that last year, and maybe into the Millenial Kingdom.	2002-08-10
US	49996158	R3V5KTO4QRWTUA	0425181200	341151059	Dale Brown's Dreamland	Books	3	6	6	N	N	Started slow but finished at Mach 2	Was excited about this new series from Brown based on the goings-on at Dreamland. The opening novel takes place in 1995, not long after the events in his novel Day of the Cheetah. Basically, General Elliot is out of the picture at Dreamland, and Congress and all the other higher ups are close to closing this place down. <br />Enter Colonel Dog Bastian. He takes over Dreamland, figuring it will be ditched by the powers that be. This is the slow, and I mean slow part of the book, pretty much the first one half to two thirds of the book. Generally, we introduce new characters, besides Bastian, including his daughter and pilot Breanna Stockard, and her husband, who is wheel-chaired after a training accident in the prologue, Jeff. A few cameos from Dale Brown's other novels appear, such as McClanahan and Briggs. The only one that takes part in most of this novel from the past novels is Nancy Cheshire.<br />While they are working on projects at HAWC, tensions are mounting in Somalia, where Iranians are shipping in Silkworm missles. Also, involved is Libya. The Iranians are trying to get a &quot;Greater Islamic League&quot; set up against the west.<br />Eventually, our friends at Dreamland are sent over, in their modified EB-52 Megafortresses...along with U/MF's Flighthawks, which are unmanned planes flown by Jeff from inside the EB-52. <br />The novel picks up speed in the last one quarter as we have aerial and land battle scenes. Can the guys and gals of Dreamland succeed in their mission, and if so, this could save the Dreamland facility.<br />Also enjoyed Brown and Defelice adding some action from the Navy, and Marines in this one. If not for most of the book being slow, this would have ranked higher.<br />Betting the series will get better, now that the characters have been developed. Worth getting if you're a techno-thriller fan.	2002-07-21
US	49996158	R5E9TZ4LR6PE7	0553580035	118006879	Battle Born	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Another Korean War?	Dale Brown returns with another aerial techno-thriller, after delving into a James Bondish yarn in Tin Man. This book, Battle Born, was not his best, but it wasn't bad either. 500+ pages and most of it was spent in building up a crew in Nevada to fly modified B-1Bs against ballistic missles.<br />The main storyline has South Korea coming into possesion of a nuclear weapon. Then after months of infiltrating North Korea with spys and helping to fight their poverty situation, the South Koreans attack, and most N. Koreans revolt against their fellow Communists to overthrow that form of government, effectively uniting Korea. <br />Meanwhile, in the U.S. a dysfunctional Air National Guard unit is being tested by Gen. Patrick McLanahan over the Nevada deserts in B-1B's. Dreamland is testing plasma-yield weapons as well as antiballilistic missles. <br />Back overseas, a United Korea has found a stockpile of Weapons of Mass Destruction (WMD), i.e. chemical, biological and nuclear weapons. A leftover crew of loyal North Koreans, still with some WMD's launch an attack on the Southern part of Korea. The defense minister, Kim of United Korea, believes China launched the attack, and wants President Kwon to retaliate against the Chinese with nuclear weapons. <br />Hence, lies the political and military struggle for the rest of the book. China invades the northern part of Korea, while the <BR>B1-B crews get their act together to keep Northeast Asia from becoming a nuclear wasteland.<br />Most of the book is dialogue, both normal and technical as only Brown can deliver. Some good aerial sequences, especially near the end.	2002-06-21
US	49996158	R1S2Y7GWNLTQGU	0345443004	666958502	The Approaching Storm (Star Wars)	Books	3	3	3	N	N	A prelude to Attack of the Clones	The story surrounding this book is not bad, but it is drawn out. Two Jedi, Obi-Wan, and Luminara, along with their two Padawans, Anakin and Barriss, head to the planet Ansion to keep the citizens there from seceding from the Republic.<br />The planet is made up of city dwellers, and nomads out in the prairie, who are at odds with each other. We see outside influences at work to get this planet to secede, that would lead to a chain reaction of other planets following suit. The main character behind this is revealed, and this person will appear in Attack of the Clones. Not who you think it is.<br />We get a good look at Luminara, and Barriss who will be appearing in the Attack of Clones movie. We also see Anakin as a young adult, and the author portrays his thoughts, of his mother, and something else, but the author would not dispel the other. My guess would be Padme Amidala. Barriss senses this in Anakin, but he will not open up to her. Anakin displays anger at times, and seems self centered unlike the normal Jedi way. <br />All four face challenges as they search the praries for the head group of the nomads to get them to agree with the city Ansionions on the matter of not seceding from the Republic.<br />Some lightsaber sequences and difficult situations face the Jedi during this novel and keeps your interest. One character introduced as Tooqui, a Gwurran, reminds me of an Ewok, as well as his fellow Gwurran.<br />Not a bad book. Enjoyed the Jedi's travels through the praries and the different creatures they encounter.	2002-05-14
US	49996158	R3IQVL65VIZKV6	0849942713	723070327	The Visitation	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Too Drawn Out	This book by Peretti has its postives and negatives. Good story, about false christs and people easily being led astray by them. However, the book could have been shorter with less filler material.<br />Travis, the main character, is a former preacher who has lost interest in serving the Lord, and his community. Along comes Brandon Nichols, who begins performing miracles in his small town of Antioch, Washington. Many people in the town, including church goers, claim he is the Christ, since he is able to heal...etc. Travis, and the new minister at his church, Kyle, know Brandon is a false messiah. The story goes about with Travis finding out about Brandon's past, and Brandon harassing Travis that their lives are so much alike. Several chapters are spent at times, with Travis reminiscing about his past.<br />As with many Peretti books, this one deals with one or two people struggling against demons, personal and real, and finally turning and relying on God to set things straight. Not as good as Peretti's previous works.	2002-05-06
US	49996158	R2YAY8119K0NWU	084233226X	321826248	Desecration: Antichrist Takes the Throne (Left Behind No. 9)	Books	5	2	6	N	N	Trib Force Dwindling?	I see reviews that talk about how poor the writing style is. Well, I for one am glad that it isn't written above everyone's heads and would probably be more of a turnoff if the series was.<br />To the book at hand. Desecration was much better than the past two or three in the series. Me, being a techno-thiller and military fiction fan, enjoyed some of the underground workings of the Trib Force. <br />In this 9th installment, the title alone tells you that the antichrist will defile the Holy Temple in Jerusalem. Meanwhile, Chaim is supposed to be the modern day Moses to lead the Jews to Petra, and Buck is there to help him out of his timidness. The archangel, Michael, makes a couple of appearances. A couple of bowl judgments are poured out on the unbeliever, those with the mark. Boils all over the body, and the seas turning to blood.<br />Lots of tense moments throughout the book and especially toward the end. And as my title of the review says, you cannot expect everyone in or helping the Trib Force, survive the entire 7 years? Glad at least LaHaye and Jenkins add some of this realism to the books.<br />With the bowl judgments going on, and Carpathia desecrating the Temple, more and more of those unmarked and even the ones that are, are raising voices against Nicolae!! You will see God at work in the novel as well. And of course, there is the ending that leaves you wishing the next book were out already.	2002-04-13
US	49996158	R3QFCPICT2FBS5	0671795678	819350793	Requiem (Star Trek The Next Generation, No 32)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Remember the Gorn?	Welcome back the Gorn! You Trekkies should remember them. Greenish lizard like creatures, one which Kirk battled one on one on Cestus III?<br />Well, enter the diplomat, Jean-Luc Picard. The story starts out with a younger Picard on the Stargazer. They encounter the Gorn, and Picard transports over to their ship and eventually to their homeworld. With very little known about the Gorn, except for accounts from Kirk's encounter, Picard somehow figures them out.<br />This sets up the current time, where the Gorn want to establish diplomatic relations with the Federation. Picard is the only one who is fit for this of course. While traveling there, the Enterprise comes upon a huge space station. While investigating it, power surges take place, and some of the crew manage to get transported back to the Enterprise, but Picard. Then, he is caught in a blinding beam, and wakes up 100 years or so in the past in an infirmary. Guess where? Cestus III, although the captain is not aware of this yet.<br />Eventually, he learns where he is, and in the meantime, is considered suspicious by all the colonists there, except the doctor, who he becomes attracted to. Going by the name of Dixon Hill, he finds out what Stardate it is, and knows it will not be long, before the Gorn invade and destoy this colony. He plans his escape, but before he even has a chance to move out, they find out he is not who he says he is. <br />Picard then reveals some information to the doctor about who he really is, since she is the only one who trusts him. Picard manages to save the colony from a reactor core overheating, but has to use force to do it, as everyone things he is sabotoging it. After doing this, he runs away into the canyons, trying to find his communicator, in the only hope of being found 100 years in the future. The Enterprise 1701-D, get the help from Bajoran pirates. As Picard is being pursued by the colonists, the Gorn invade. Being torn between obeying the Prime Directive, or helping thecolonists, and the doctor who he cares about, he decides to help them, hoping it will not affect the future timeline. While helping them, he is beamed away back to the future, or his time. Toward the end of the book, Kirk, Spock and Bones appear.<br />All in all a great book. Was mislead a little, thinking Picard would be facing one on one with a Gorn like Kirk did.	2002-03-30
US	49996158	RKI6MJFPM189X	0425171175	977398614	Seal Team Seven 09: War Cry	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Not what I expected	Reading the back cover synopsis made me think this novel would be great. The North Koreans invading South Korea, and taking the Vice President hostage. Well, the SEALs in this novel take on several missions into enemy territory. The first mission is to rescue the VP, but it only takes a chapter or two to do that. Too easy. Felt this novel could have been better written and better plotted. <br />Well, the VP is safely back in Seoul. In the meantime, Don Stroh and the CIA send the SEALs on various missions into North Korea. One to destroy a remote radio transmission station that the U.S. and S. Korea do not want the NK's to get their hands on. Another mission has them rescuing a general and several CO's in NK territory.<br />But the main mission eventually to try and end this mini war between North and South is to take out the 3 North Korean generals managing the political/military scene of their country.<br />One fascinating part of the book, was a conflict between Seals, Fernandez and Douglas. They get into fistacuffs a couple of times, and are threatened by j.g. Dewitt that they would be shipped out of the SEALs and to Adak, Alaska. Well, it gets interesting toward the end of the novel, when the SEALs are in a firefight with some North Korean patrol and Douglas is ordered to cover Fernandez. Well he doesn't. Fernandez is seriously wounded. Also, a couple of other SEALs get grounded by wounds, and you may not see two or three of them in the next novel. At least, I'm not expecting too. Hope the author brings back Magic Brown.	2002-03-24
US	49996158	R1ZUPJEZ2UATIQ	0553578855	498832304	The Mandalorian Armor (Star Wars: The Bounty Hunter Wars, Book 1)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Nobody's Hero	I enjoyed this novel, despite a lot of dialogue and flipping back and forward from &quot;At the beginning of ROTJ&quot; to &quot;Around the time of ANH.&quot; The central character is Boba Fett, who many remember as the most revered bounty hunter. Well, apparently, Boba Fett was a bad pill to swallow for the Sarlacc! A bounty hunter named Dengar finds Boba lying half naked, and seriously injured on the Dune Sea. First found by Neela, a dancer who escaped from Jabba's palace. Boba is nursed back to health by Dengar's two medical droids. Meanwhile, the author takes us back to A New Hope time frame, where Boba Fett is paid by a new character, called Ku'dar Mu'bat, a spiderlike creature to bring a disassembly to the Bounty Hunter's Guild.<BR>  Jeter really never explains how Boba broke up the Guild, but as one reviewer put it, it was more Bossk's doing than Boba's. Although, with Bounty Hunter's as a group, who needs enemies?<BR>  Other characters inserted briefly are Vader and Prince Xizor, prior to Xizor's demise in Shadows of the Empire. Lot's of selfish ambition in this novel, where no one is your friend.<BR>  As usual, the ending of this novel is a cliffhanger, as Slave I...<BR> Well, you'll have to read it.	2002-03-04
US	49996158	R2AF8G5DR4D7N3	0786010851	141414470	Payback (Code Name)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Fresh start for Johnstone	I'm happy with a new series by Johnstone. The plot was somewhat realistic, given this book was written well before the 9/11 event. Terrorists plot to kill the President, and many Americans in NYC, for the PLF (People's Liberation Front)'s cause. The new hero is John Barrone, along with other ex-Federal, State agents. They train together in West Texas and track the PLF from L.A., across country to NYC. They also must keep quiet about who they are to the FBI, CIA...etc. Lots of action, but little character development give this novel 3 stars. However, am impressed that Bill does not preach his philosophy every other chapter as in the Ashes series, and some of his more recent books like Breakdown. Although, I agree with most of that philosophy, we just want a good story. Looking forward to reading the next book.	2002-02-25
US	49996158	R1VZIJYK6B64VN	0786004908	373778195	From The Ashes: America Reborn	Books	3	5	6	N	N	Raines/Johnstone's Philosophy	This book is good for those of us who need a review of the Ashes series. It has been 13 years since I first started with Out of the Ashes. It was good to have a review of all the enemies/friends and locations, Raines has met/been through. I found it very interesting that Bill Johnstone portrayed himself as the reporter, younger and living outside the SUSA. You get a good feel of what Raines/Johnstone's philosophy is on politics, religion, crime, the environment...etc. Sounds like a Utopian society for me, and one that is unlikely...too good to be true, but that does not mean I have to change my views.<br />Most chapters have a map of the Rebel's campaigns. I'd have to say that the drawings were pretty pathetic, a kindergartner could do. Wished there was a little more map detail and in depth of each novel.	2002-02-12
US	49996158	R3W197DQR3K9YR	0425169413	489814198	Seal Team Seven 08: Pacific Siege	Books	4	1	1	N	N	SEALs fighting in the Pacific and Middle East	This ST7 novel was very good, and Douglass seems to do a better job with this series compared to the Carrier series, although both are good. As the title of my review states, Team Seven fight in two theaters this novel, although the main plot centers around the Pacific. The first several chapters have the Seals in Iraq, on a mission the rescue a Kuwaiti government prisoner. Almost though the story was not going to match the cover. But the Seals fight through Iraqi soldiers, helicopters and MIGs to escape Iraq. A familiar face is not in this novel, Magic Brown, still recuperating from his injuries suffered in Iran on the previous mission, \\"Deathrace\\".<br />So the middle of the book keeps the SEALs training in Coronado and Niland, with a new recruit. Word from CIA Contact Don Stroh is that a situation in North Korea is heating up and the Seals may be needed there. Well as they move to the Carrier USS Monroe, something else happens. A Japanese general invades the Kunashir Island which is Russian territory, but was owned by Japan prior to the end of WWII. General Nishikawa wants Russia to give the land back, but diplomacy has not worked in the past. His and many other Japanese have buried ancestors there.<br />The Russians are ready to take out this band of Japanese invaders, but the U.S. and the Seals arrive first, and eventually, after some tight/tense moments at sea between the Russians and Americans, they work together to track the general down.<br />Well rounded novel, that had plenty of action and dialogue and did not center on the Seals all the time, involving more of the Carrier crew. Some Bond like spy weapons are introduced that the Seals use, to take out the Japanese without injuring or killing them. One of the better ones in the ST7 series.	2002-02-08
US	49996158	R27P5UNWU60N1C	0515127361	462334046	Typhoon Season (Carrier, No. 14)	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Ignore the times	Typhoon Season is a good action packed book, with tensions rising between the Chinese and Americans, after a Chinese military chopper fires on an American Yacht owned by Tombstone's Uncle Phil. Story deserves 4 stars, but as the subject line refers to, too many editorial errors made in the book in regards to time, so try to ignore it and enjoy the story. Also, Mr. Douglass delves in meteorology which happens to be the field I'm in. Not bad, except Typhoons and Hurricanes are the same thing, just called different names in different parts of the world, although Typhoons tend to be stronger due to more warm water to stay over. <br />Back to the story. Mystery surronds each side as to why the Chinese would attack the Americans, then Americans attack the Chinese. Similar to a James Bond plot, where someone behind the scenes named Mr. Blossom is trying to get China and the U.S. into a war. Douglass provides good aerial fighting sequences, as well as, some life on the Carrier. The book finishes rather quick and seemed as if Douglass may have been rushed to end it.	2002-01-31
US	49996158	R9OOBIRJLBIUF	0786004819	226228356	Ambush In The Ashes	Books	3	1	3	N	N	Ambushed	Typical of the Ashes series over the past several novels, William Johnstone preaches his Rebel philosophy, as Ben Raines and fellow comrades, trek across Africa. Overall, the book is average, with its ups and downs. Positives, action and realistically, Rebels, some of them higher ups, getting killed...in an ambush of sorts across northern Africa. Raines underestimated Bottger and it comes back to hurt him. The first half of the book has the Rebels landing in Morocco, and traveling south along the west coast, fighting gangs, and helping some of the natives, who are starving or diseased. Negatives, lots of filler material as Johnstone repeats similar words every other page, with the same old vocabulary from his Team. The latter half of the book was better once the Rebels get into Togo and Benin. This is when Bottger launches a massive suicide assault using refugees as cover on the Batt Com 1 and some of the other Batt Coms. Ben of course survives, but wakes up alone. He journeys for a while, trying to find any surviving Rebels and is eventually regrouped with his Team, but the Rebels lose thousands. Raines regroups toward the end and the 18 Batt Coms are dwindled down to 10 Brigade groups. Meanwhile, rumor of an impending Civil War in the former U.S. between the SUSA and the reunified NUSA and EUSA reach Ben. But first they need to take care of Bottger.	2002-01-23
US	49996158	R2W8ALZP8K6C76	0446607053	62043567	Day of Wrath	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Present Day Threat	Bond delivers a story that could be true to today's world. Prince Ibrahim of Saudi Arabia, a millionaire, is the guy behind the terrorism across the world, financially supporting various factions. He also owns a powerful corporation, known as Caraco, and is very influential with the current administration in the White House. <br />The story revolves around Thorn and Gray, the Army Colonel, and FBI agent who were featured in Bond's prior novel, Enemy Within.<BR>A Russian cargo jet crashes in northern Russia with U.S. officials onboard. Gray and Thorn both meet at the scene, and that's when their lives get interesting. Trailing clues to why the plane crashed with the help of a Russian MVD officer, Thorn and Gray pursue Germans into parts of northern Russia, into Norway and Germany. They get into trouble with Russian locals when the MVD officer is killed in an ambush.<br />They have a hunch that, jet engines are being used to smuggle nuclear weapons to the U.S. Disobeying orders from their government, Thorn and Gray pursue the leads to the U.S. and get help from General Farrell. With the German and Arabic terrorists after them as well as their own government, Thorn and Gray must elude them and get to the heart of the problem, before Ibrahim can unleash 20 150 Megaton nuclear bombs on the U.S.	2002-01-14
US	49996158	R3E2WI72SU93F5	0425173704	273408342	Chopper Ops 2: Zero Red	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Action Intensive	Book 2 in the Chopper Ops series has plenty of non-stop action pretty much from the start. Just a few days before Christmas, our crew gets a notice from higher up, that a Russian carrier is carrying over 1000 megatons of nuclear warheads! And it has been taking over by some mercenary group. They are dropped in the North Atlantic, and are to assist the Russian Spetsnaz group to get onboard the carrier and stop this ship from heading toward the Zero Red line, which is an imaginary boundary setup during the Cold War by the U.S., which states that any Russian nuclear vessel crossing this line will be fired upon and destroyed by the U.S.<br />Our boys are promised to be home for Christmas, but things turn bloody pretty fast as the Spetsnaz get wiped out while infiltrating the ship. It is up to the crew of Chopper Ops to prevent a nuclear holocaust, while fighting two other groups onboard! Meanwhile, the biggest storm of the century is hitting the area with snow, rain, sleet, and wind.<br />Lots of pretty far fetched stuff in this novel regarding military operations, similar to Maloney's Wingman series. But it is fiction, so it should not be too in line with reality. Just a fun read.	2001-12-16
US	49996158	R1EM5P5BRPDDWF	0785265880	613789159	The Battle For Jerusalem	Books	4	13	17	N	N	Historical &amp; Biblical Perspective of Jerusalem	Pastor Hagee does a good job of bringing out historical and biblical references to Jerusalem. Covered in this book is the recent history of the quarrels between Israel and the PLO, since Israel became a nation in 1948. The roots of this holy land stem back to Abraham's time in the Bible. Hagee adds good detail to what actually has happened since 1948 in Israel, and the fact that Arafat and the Muslims will not be satisfied until Israel and Jerusalem are their own. <br />Hagee also goes into the history of Jerusalem and what to expect in the future per Biblical prophecy. If you have read Hagee's &quot;From Daniel to Doomsday&quot;, or any of his other prophecy books, you will recognize quite a bit, as he mentions the same thing. <br />Great book due to the historical insight to the Mid-East conflict and Bible prophecy and its ties to Jerusalem and Israel.	2001-12-10
US	49996158	R30QY2CGTMBDAB	0553100890	967938127	Star Wars: Shadows of the Empire	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Formidable Foes	Shadows of the Empire takes place between TESB and ROTJ. We find out what takes place after Han is frozen in carbonite. We are introduced to the mastermind behind the criminal organization Black Sun, Prince Xizor, who although lacks any Jedi capabilities, makes it up in ruthlessness and coldness.<br />Basically, Xizor is wanting to be the Emperor's right hand man in this novel, but how do you get to Emperor to drop Lord Vader?<BR>Xizor finds out about Luke Skywalker, Vader's son. Vader was responsible for the death of his family years past and now wants to exact revenge by killing Luke.<br />We also see in this novel how Leia obtains her bounty hunter outfit and thermo-detenator used in ROTJ, Luke's growing in using the Force, and the Emperor's mastermind behind letting the Rebel's find out about the plans for the 2nd Death Star.<br />Star Wars fans will not be disappointed. Plenty of action abound, as well as humor. One funny part is when 3PO and R2 are flying or attempting to fly the Millenium Falcon to rescue Luke and Leia.<br />Steve Perry does the Star Wars Universe justice.	2001-11-27
US	49996158	R1NO9CW92DQ84N	0425167410	358068011	Seal Team Seven 07: Deathrace	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Pretty Good Story....Poor Editing	As has been typical with most action/adventure series novels, the stories are action packed and well thought of, but the editors lack a keen eye for spelling and grammatical errors. This book is no different. I've learned to overlook errors and go with the story. Deathrace sets Seal Team Seven in Iran to take out a nuclear facility and its few nuclear bombs. One problem, none of the team knows how to dismantle a nuke. Enter, Kat Garnet, top physicist and triathlon champion, oh, and a female.<br />A female in the SEALs? President's orders. Well, Kat gets a two week crash course on how to be a SEAL, shooting the weapons, swimming several miles, running long distances with 40 pounds of gear on your self. Well, she actually does well, and at times better than the men! Will she do well when real combat takes place?<br />The first 200 pages deal with her getting trained, while a couple of SEALs help a CIA agent find the Nuclear Facility in Iran. The last 100 pages, have the team infiltrating the Nuke Plant, doing their job and trying to get out of Iran before capture. They have 40 miles to go to make it to the coast, and plenty of angry Iranians in between them and their freedom.	2001-11-15
US	49996158	R1T7BO6X4O3BL4	0345442989	164434464	Star Wars: Cloak of Deception	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Palpatine Plays the Perfect Political Game	The book started a little slow, but picked up pace. We learn from this novel, how suave Palpatine is. He plays several sides of the political arena, and as we know, to benefit his interests in the future. Poor Valorum does not have too many allies, mainly the Jedi. The book centers on the Trade Federation and the Nebula Front...and taxation on the outlying systems. The Nebula Front is a terrorist organization out to get Valorum, or so it seems and also to reduce the control of the Trade Federation on its trading routes. <br />The book is written like a good suspense/political novel, and set in the Star Wars universe. You can expect some action with the Jedi, as well as the terrorists, but mainly dialogue makes up this book, along with plenty of twists, especially a couple toward the end.	2001-10-31
US	49996158	R2V913T6L3SXD9	0345275667	896078468	Splinter of the Mind's Eye: From the Adventures of Luke Skywalker	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Comic book material	Reading Splinter of the Mind's Eye gives you a different perspective of the Star Wars universe before the Empire Strikes Back movie arrived. Alan Dean Foster sets about a story where Luke and Leia travel to Circarpous IV to sway the inhabitants to join the Rebel Alliance. Well, they never get there and end up on Mimban which seems similar to Dagobah. Luke, Leia, Threepio and R2, find themselves on a planet run secretly by Imperials using locals and slaves to work the mines. Luke and Leia get in trouble in a local bar/eatery and are imprisoned, but the Imperials do not know them. Before this takes place, they meet a woman, named Halla, who possesses a shard from the Kaiburr Crystal which supposedly enhances the Force to the one who possesses it. <br />Luke and Leia manage to escape the Imperials with the help of Halla, but not before they draw interest to the local Captain who in turn informs the Governor of that sector.<br />There's action as Luke, Leia and the rest of the crew seek to find the crystal, while being pursued by Imperials, and other creatures of Mimban. Eventually, Darth Vader shows up, and there is a duel between Vader and Luke for the crystal near the end.<br />The book seemed mostly like a comic book story, but was interesting how Alan Dean Foster portrayed the characters, and apparently not knowing Lucas's plans for the future as Luke and  Leia appear to have a strong attraction to each other.	2001-10-13
US	49996158	R31ZOXVEJJYG5I	0553574175	259159170	Rebel Dawn (Star Wars: The Han Solo Trilogy, Book 3)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Great Ending to the Han Trilogy	In this novel, the last of the trilogy, we learn how Han wins the Falcon, his renewing relationship with Bria and what happens when they work together on an invasion of Ylesia, how he gets in trouble with Jabba at the end, and the leading up to the Cantina scene in ANH movie.<br />Other storylines, include bounties on Bria and Han and Boba Fett's track after them. Lando spends some time in this novel as well, helping Bria out. Also, the storyline with both Hutt clans battling it out, Jiliac and Jabba versus Aruk and Durga, continues.<br />Ann also adds interludes where Han is in the Corporate Sector, which apparently could have come from Brian Daley's Han Solo Trilogy, although I have not read them.<br />To finalize, this is a good background novel leading up to the movie that started it all in 1977 in relation to Han Solo.	2001-10-01
US	49996158	RTR7LDYR0NDW8	0553574167	829224834	The Hutt Gambit (Star Wars: The Han Solo Trilogy, Vol. 2)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Hutts, Bounty Hunters and Imperials after Han!	The 2nd book of the trilogy was better than the first as we are introduced to more familiar characters from the original Star Wars universe. This book has plenty of action as well. We find Han kicked out of the Imperial Academy for saving Chewie from being killed. Han hates slavery!<br />Well, Han and Chewie, find themselves looking for a ship on the Smuggler's Moon Nar Shaddaa, and Han volunteers to work for Jiliac and Jabba, both Hutt's. Meanwhile, the t'Landa til, Teroenza, wants Han's skin for what he did in the first book. The Besadii clan of the Hutt's who Teroenza works for, hire Boba Fett for to capture Han. <br />Han falls victim to Fett, but another familiar name in the SW Universe saves his hide, Lando. Afterwards, Fett does not have much of a role in this book.<br />While working for Jabba, the Desilijic clan of the Hutts, Han finds out that the Imperials are wanting to destroy Nar Shaddaa, and the smuggler's ways of life. Jabba does not want this and tries to bribe the local Moff, to no avail, then the Admiral of the ships, which works somewhat. The Imperials launch an attack on Nar Shaddaa, but the Smuggler's have tricks up their sleeves, and put up a good fight.<br />Finally, another acquaintence shows up toward the end, as Han is hiding on an Imperial vessel in a dark closet, he hears heavy breathing, as someone visits the admiral. Then a thump to the floor. <br />Welcome to the picture, Lord Vader! Great read.	2001-09-15
US	49996158	R2BFWTX0JVBD0H	067188414X	764973541	Foreign Foes (Star Trek The Next Generation, No 31)	Books	3	3	4	N	N	A Grain Sets About Conflict	First off, as I started reading this book for the first few chapters, I was disappointed in the writing style and the choppiness of the words the authors used. There really was no background at the start as in most Star Trek books, you were just thrown into the middle of a mission. Toward the middle half of the book it got better, both story and writing, so the average overall comes to three stars.<br />Basically, the foreign foes are the Hidran and Klingons who have a long history of fighting. Well, Picard and associates are sent to settle a crisis on the planet Velex. The Klingons need something from the Hidran and vice versa. Well, this planet already has a Federation prescence of scientists there, studying the field of so called grain. This grain however, rejuvenates ones health if eaten. Well, during the Hidran/Klingon proceedings, which are full of conflict, Worf apparently kills one of the Hidran ambassadors in private, and this sets the stage for Picard being taken hostage by the Hidran. Meanwhile, Riker and Troi, get beamed below ground into a maze of machinery, some of which start attacking them...and they have to figure a way out of there.<br />Aboard the Enterprise, Data is in command and one of the scientists from Velex gives him the grain and he trys it out.<BR>Afterwards, Data has this premonition that Geordi and all Klingons are bad and he must destroy the Klingons in orbit around Velex and then take off to their homeworld Qo' NoS to settle matters there.<BR>So, basically the book is a mystery in why Data is acting the way he is, and how can he be stopped...with Picard and most of the crew stuck on Velex with irritable Klingons and Hidrans about to kill each other. Only Geordi, without his VISOR, which malfunctions after beaming back from Velex can try and stop Data. He actually fails, but other things take place on the planet that may settle this whole conflict, and Picard must figure it out.	2001-09-01
US	49996158	R1S163XR1WI6B0	0553574159	611556484	The Paradise Snare (Star Wars, The Han Solo Trilogy #1) (Book 1)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Never underestimate a Corellian	Crispin does an excellent job with Han Solo's younger days, growing up in a rough lifestyle. We find Han aboard the Trader's Luck captained by Shrike who uses young orphans to do his bidding as thieves on various worlds. Han is a teenager, 19, during this time. He is tired of this life, and wants to become an Imperial pilot one day, so he plots an escape. A special friend of his is killed during his exit, and he vows to never forget what she has done for him. Han takes a robot ship to Ylesia, and manages to get a job with the cousins of the Hutts, by piloting spice to other planets. He falls in love with a Corellian girl on this planet who is one of many pilgrims serving the One, which turns out to be a false religion doctored by the masters on this world. Han works his charm to get her out of this drug induced religion and eventually off the planet and back to Corellia with the help of a new friend.<BR>Han finally gets to Coruscant near the end of the book, but is almost killed by Shrike and another Bounty Hunter, not to mention some Stormtroopers. The book has lots of action, and is fast paced. You meet a few species not around in the Star Wars movies, and you get to know young Han, with a few surprises along the way.	2001-08-04
US	49996158	R3BPFIYS1Y5CF1	0849938635	365432395	The Oath	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Dark...but a good story	I've read all of Peretti's adult novels, except The Visitation, and this is by far the darkest he has written. It seems secular for the most part with not much mention of God or Jesus, angels or demons. However, it does not have cursing or sex scenes in it, but there is some gore.<br />Cliff Benson is apparently killed by a bear, yet his wife survives the attack. Cliff's brother, Steve, a wildlife biologist, sets out to find out what killed Cliff. Well, he meets a brick wall in the form of a clanish town deep in the mountains, who believe in a dragon!<br />Only one individual, who is labeled a fanatic or looney of the town, Levi Cobb, knows what happened to his brother, and what deep dark secrets the town keeps. Another person, in the form of Tracy Ellis, deputy, assists Steve, but also they have a mini romance, and actually sleep together, though, thankfully, Peretti does not describe it. The question on your mind as you read this book, is who can you trust and is there really a dragon killing some of the people of Hyde River?<br />As the town becomes more corrupt, more people are killed, and black stains start appearing on people's hearts, of course, which is symbolic of sin. The town hates Steve for investigating into their private lives and &quot;dragon&quot; lead.<br />Well, there is a dragon in this book, and it symbolizes Satan. The head honco of the town, Harold Bly, apparently thinks he has control of this dragon to do his bidding, but read the book and find out what happens when you think you can do what you want with Satan and not have Christ in your life.<br />Very suspenseful and easy read. My second favorite of Peretti's to This Present Darkness.	2001-07-14
US	49996158	R2060SW6D27Z12	0671891529	567743757	Q-Squared (Star Trek: The Next Generation)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Complicated but fun	Peter David outdid himself in this novel. You may want to grab yourself a piece of paper if you are planning on reading this book, to keep from getting lost.<br />The basis of the plot, is that Trelane, &quot;Squire of Gothos&quot;, from the Original Series, is being mentored by Q, per request from Trelane's parents. Although, Trelane appears as an adult, in the Q Continuum, he is merely a child...and he wants to have fun and have his way.<br />He seeks to become all-powerful by building yet another machine that takes him &quot;Into the Heart of the Storm&quot; apparently to bring all multiverses into one.<br />Well the Enterprise, three of them, get involved. It is fun, to see the different characteristics of each member. In one time-line, Riker is being tortured by a Romulan, and has been in captivity for 7-8 years. Meanwhile, Jack Crusher is the captain of the Enterprise, with Picard as his Number One. <br />In another time-line, the Federation is at war with the Klingons.<br />Well, once Trelane gets power hungry he banishes Q to the farthest reaches of the galaxy, where Q becomes a disembodied haze of energy. All Enterprises arrive at Terminus...then Trelane begins having fun. Picard and Beverly have a romance on the Enterprise. Jack Crusher, who is separated from Beverly at that time...becomes enraged as Trelane shows Crusher what is going on. Also, the crew begin to bounce from one Enterprise to the other not knowing what is happening, until near the end. Q finally realizes what is going on, and tells the Picard of the universe we are familiar with. Picard then challenges to Trelane to a fencing duel to stop a catastrophe from happening, as the Enterprise begins a plummet toward the planet's surface.<br />Very well written book, despite a few complications toward the end.	2001-06-26
US	49996158	R3SZLPE1ZGAYGN	0786010010	451434324	Cat's Cradle	Books	4	12	12	N	N	Classic Johnstone horror	This story would definetely make a B-horror flick, but I enjoy reading Johnstone's horror novels. Classic Good vs. Evil, God vs. Satan. In a rural county in Virginia, the devil's child and cat are awakened by an engineer in a mine. Bad mistake. Before this, Johnstone gives a background to how the girl came about and what has been happening over the course of about 2 centuries. <br />Well, all Hades breaks loose. The girl and cat survive on human flesh. If you happen to survive their attack, you turn into a beast. Also, Satan calls upon the cats in the town and county to attack humans. This book is full of gore and is not for the weak stomach. It is actually one of Johnstone's goriest I've read, next to The Uninvited and Bats, also good horror novels. <br />This story gets complicated as the sheriff and state troopers are trying to figure out what is going on, then the Feds get involved, headed by an insane person. The angle with the Feds, OSS, CIA, FBI and so on gets complicated at times. The main reason they're there, is to try and harness this evil and use as a weapon against the Russians. Yeah, right! Did not work as several are killed.... <br />To find out what happens, read the book.<br />Only a couple of things about this novel that are negatives, lots of cursing and disregard for a few Christian denominations.	2001-06-20
US	49996158	RSHJGG9P26FEM	0671883410	654723620	Debtors' Planet (Star Trek The Next Generation, No 30)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Good story	Another pretty good Trek novel. We have a planet being overrun by Ferengi, who have enslaved the Megarans, in order to industrialize a once primative society into building starships. Ambassador Offenhouse is sent by the Federation, aboard the Enterprise, to resolve this situation. We find out that Offenhouse was a businessman from the 20th century, who was frozen after death, then apparently thawed out after finding a cure. Thompson never got into explaining this. Some of the Eugenics War was brought up where Offenhouse lost his son. <br />Meanwhile, Offenhouse uses his financier wit to tick off the Ferengi. An away team beams down to find out what is going on, then are attacked by the Megarans, or so they thought. Enter the Cardassians, who are the real string pullers on this planet. <br />Of course, Worf gets involved as does most of the main crew of the Enterprise to figure out what is going on. The Cardassians are discovered by an Ensign, who is an insectoid, resembling a bee! The Cardassians use the Ferengi and try to ambush the Enterprise in orbit. <br />All in all, this book had action and humor mixed in. All of the main crew gets involved at some point. The only gripe I had was the way the book ended. It seemed to just stop all of a sudden, and leaves you wondering what else was going to happen.	2001-06-10
US	49996158	R22QV01IG7DD2Z	0785269665	547210705	From Daniel to Doomsday: The Countdown Has Begun	Books	4	11	23	N	N	Prepare Now!	Pastor Hagee does a wonderful job in presenting Biblical prophecy. He not only describes the book of Daniel and King Nebuchanezzar's dream of the image, he also cites prophecy's from the other Old Testament prophets, such as Ezekiel and Jeremiah, as well as cite New Testament verses, from Jesus, Paul and John the Revelator. This book has many key verses that you can look at and study yourself, and make you realize that the Rapture and Tribulation will be soon and perhaps in our current generation. Although there are a few things Hagee mentions, that I would question, such as the population of Heaven after the Great White Throne Judgment, the key is that you need Jesus now! And to reject to gospel now with all the evidence that is present in the Holy Word of God, means to face tribulation and judgement. Read this book and study the Bible as you do. It will open your eyes.	2001-06-05
US	49996158	R1D2Y063UZPKAQ	0515124702	952192186	Brink of War (Carrier Naval Aviation Series, 13)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Finding Father	Brink of War continues the quest for Tombstone to find his father. We find the USS Jefferson in the North Sea, on a friendly mission with Russia in playing some war games. Tombstone gets evidence while in Russia, that his father is alive in the Ukraine, so he flies to Kursk. Meanwhile, in the North Sea, two to three Russian subs are hunting one of our subs who happend to be on a covert mission that was not explained. So, this book has two scenarios playing out, and is written in first person. Frankly, I would like the author to write in both third and first person, mix it up a little. Although, it is interesting to get the thoughts of the main characters.  This book has a couple of good dog fights, but most of the fighting is one-sided and the ending was too quick. Will the next Carrier book pick up where this one left off, or will the Jefferson be in a whole new area. The quest for Tombstone's father apparently ends in this book.	2001-05-25
US	49996158	R2UR7UB93PEPR6	0785269673	890287909	The Revelation Of Truth:  A Mosaic Of God's Plan For Man	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Genesis on Bible Prophecy	Another good prophecy book by Pastor Hagee. In this one, he covers 30 Revelations of Truth that we can find in the book of Genesis. From the Garden of Eden, to Joseph, and how it relates to prohecies fulfilled and those yet to be fulfilled. Hagee demonstrates a deep study and knowledge of the Hebrew culture. He also describes the 7 ages of Dispensation. From the Age of Creation to the Age to Come, the Kingdom of God. Worth picking up this book, if you are interested in Bible Prophecy and the book of Genesis.	2001-05-08
US	49996158	R2RBYX4T8Z4F1Q	0345435389	753640827	Rogue Planet (Star Wars)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Pretty good opening...very slow middle...good ending	This book opens up with Anakin engaged in mischief. He is somewhere on Coruscant, getting ready to race in the pits. Unknowingly, an assassin is there, next to him. Obi-Wan shows up in time to save young Anakin. Afterwards, at the Jedi temple, Mace Windu assigns Obi-Wan, and Anakin on a trip to a planet called Zonama Sekot, looking for another Jedi Knight, Vergere. Meanwhile, we are introduced to a young Tarkin, and his used friend Raith Seinar. As you can suspect, Tarkin is not a good guy. He is working for someone to get rid of the Jedi, Darth Sidious perhaps? Although his name never comes up.  For the middle of the book, Obi-Wan and Anakin visit this planet and learn that ships are built by living creatures. So most of the middle of the book is slow and somewhat boring. The last 100 pages picks up pace with Anakin starting to show is future true colors, as the assassin shows up again, a Blood Carver. Anakin does away with him, though it is not described how, only what the Blood Carver looked like afterwards. In orbit, Tarkin shows up with Droid Starfighters and mine ships, to take over this planet known for its ships. A good sequence of events takes place, so you will have to read it to find out what happens. <br />Bear does a pretty good job with the SW universe, but there needs to be more action.	2001-05-08
US	49996158	RYLJBRLPES33G	0785270973	167526670	C. S. Lewis on Joy	Books	1	3	5	N	N	Lewis needs more pages	I admire C.S. Lewis, the fact that he came to know Christ, after being an atheist. However, I agree with the previous review that this book does not do Lewis justice in that it only represents small outtakes of his thoughts/writings. There are some sections in the book that you can take to heart, like enjoying the simpler things in life, like nature, that God created for us to enjoy. If you like quick reads, pick this up, but do not expect much.	2001-04-03
US	49996158	R2258LN3QZSR7F	0842382127	278533921	Why You Act the Way You Do	Books	4	32	35	N	N	Spiritual Temperaments	Mr. Lahaye does a good job of introducing us to the four basic temperaments that we are born with, derived from Ancient Greece. This book explores the various attitudes and personalities of each temperament and how our worldly selves deal with them. Basically, if you have a close relationship with Jesus, then the weaknesses of each temp. is not that hard to overcome. Lahaye tells us is that we have a predominant temp. with one or two secondaries and it is interesting to see where you fit in, and how certain aspects of your life affect how you react to certain situations. This is similar to the Myers-Brigg Indicator, but you do not answer a lot of questions. One thing, I did like, was Lahaye's mention of the spiritual fruits and what each temp. is normally good at. If you are interested in seeing which temperament you are, and what your strengths/weaknesses may be, this is the book for you.	2001-04-01
US	49996158	R3THBEUTH2JSES	0671797042	636423463	Sins of Commission (Star Trek The Next Generation, No 29)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Who did it?	The Enterprise is affected by an alien race called the Sli once they are beamed aboard from the damaged passenger/tourist ship, Prospector. Although the Enterprise is in orbit around the planet Lessanar to help with their ecological disaster, most of the story takes place within the confines of the Enterprise. One of the emotion casting Sli was killed in the explosion on the Prospector, and the captain and crew fear that the other Sli are angry at them and begin affecting everyone on board, except Data, with extreme emotions. The mystery surrounds on who caused the explosion that killed the one Sli. The Ferengi, Mon Hartog, who manages these Sli thinks one of the Enterprise crew did it. Can you trust a Ferengi. There are 4 suspects, one of which is Worf. Deanna tries to learn to communicate with the Sli, Worf leads an investigation, until he is confined to quarters, then Data finds the answer by beaming aboard the Prospector with Captain Walch. Pretty good Trek novel, but it starts out pretty slow and it has its slow moments in it. Worf is at his best though in being in a foul mood, helped by the Sli's effects. Worth reading.	2001-03-07
US	49996158	R1AGPTZ0N65E6Q	0345435397	595671727	Darth Maul: Shadow Hunter (Star Wars)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Fast-paced	This book had non-stop fast paced action. Reaves does a good job in showing Maul's thoughts and actions and I can see why he gets killed in TPM. Although Maul has a look that can kill and has great martial arts skills...he lacks patience...and he is very arrogant. This does him in, in TPM.  Reaves gives us a tour of the lower levels of Coruscant along the Crimson Corridor...where the dregs and criminals of society hang out. Maul is in pursuit of a Neimodian who has the plans of what Darth Sidious and the Trade Federation are about to do...blockade of Naboo. This Neimoidian gets the info to Lorn Pavan, a Corellian who reminds us of Han. Well, Maul now has two people he has to exterminate. We meet a yound Jedi padawan, Darsha Assant, who besides Maul, is generally the main character in this book. She eventually runs into Maul and Pavan...helping Pavan and his sidekick droid I-5 escape the clutches of Maul for a short while. Maul pursues these three along the lower and sub levels of Coruscant where we meet some intersting creatures, one of which is resistant to the Force. Obi-Wan is introduced trying to find out what happened to Darsha as she was on a graduation assignment. He senses corruption as he looks for Darsha when he runs into the remnants of wreckage and such, but he is lead to believe that it may be the Black Sun gang lead by a Hutt. Basically this book centers on a pursuit by Maul to kill anyone who knows of the plans and to get the holocron with the plans on them back to his master. There are a couple of great light saber duels. A must read...especially for fans of Darth Maul.<br />In addition, based on a previous review about Reaves not giving too much background on Darth Maul's past; I read an interview with Reaves where Lucas did not want him to reveal too much about our Dark Lord of the Sith. So, not sure if something will come up in the next movie or another book about his past.	2001-02-21
US	49996158	R2L4JCLD8FPU	0891076182	757573772	Prophet: A Novel	Books	4	4	4	N	N	In the News: Abortion	Prophet was different from Peretti's first two books. This one deals with one's struggles with the Truth and overcoming political correctness, the world's views, as well as your own selfish ambitions to tell the truth. John Barrett, anchorman for Channel 6 news has a great career going. His father is religious and eventually is killed for doing what is right. The governor is corrupt and the governor's daughter dies from a botched abortion as does another family's daughter. John tries to get to the bottom of this and in the process makes enemies at the news station. John struggles through the book with his relationship with family, co-workers and God. Good book, 4 stars due to a lot of filler the author throws in that do not add to the story, such as the opening of the news cast. He mentions this a dozen times throughout the book. Besides that, it is worth reading, especially in light of today's political issues.	2001-02-18
US	49996158	R1FCC8Z6VMWOHZ	0891076182	757573772	Prophet: A Novel	Books	4	5	5	N	N	In the News: Abortion	Prophet was different from Peretti's first two books. This one deals with one's struggles with the Truth and overcoming political correctness, the world's views, as well as your own selfish ambitions to tell the truth. John Barrett, anchorman for Channel 6 news has a great career going. His father is religious and eventually is killed for doing what is right. The governor is corrupt and the governor's daughter dies from a botched abortion as does another families daughter. John tries to get to the bottom of this and in the process makes enemies at the news station. John struggles through the book with his relationship with family, co-workers and God. Good book, 4 stars due to a lot of filler the author throws in that do not add to the story, such as the opening of the news cast. He mentions this a dozen times throughout the book. Besides that, it is worth reading, especially in light of today's political issues.	2001-02-18
US	49996158	R33NFZM1PUSD5B	0671865714	466516724	Here There Be Dragons (Star Trek The Next Generation, No 28)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Action and Adventure	John Peel did an excellent job with this story! The book takes the crew of the Enterprise to a world set in medieval Germany. To get to this world, they use the services of a Federation Security Agent who knows the way through a secret tunnel that traverses a tachyon-full nebula. Apparently, the planet's occupants were put there by the Preservers...and is also home to dragons. Picard and his crew find out that trophy hunters are after these dragons and must stop them from breaking the Prime Directive. Of course, the away team gets into trouble while seeking out these criminals. Picard and security officer Miles are sold into slavery while Ro is taken to a castle to serve the duke and his weird ways. Meanwhile, Riker and Deanna get into trouble as well with the local black magician. <br />If you like action and humor, Star Trek style, read this book. I consider it one of the best of the first 30 Star Trek:TNG books. Peel involves all characters and while the away team is on the planet's surface, the Enterprise gets attacked. So read it already!	2001-02-06
US	49996158	R37WZ8V4T51QVJ	0786010258	911634260	The Tomorrow War (Wingman #16)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Is this the end?	We are still stuck in this alternative universe. The first two thirds of the book deal with Agent Y (Yaz) and his compatriots trying to find out what happened to Hawk and the crew of the B-2000 that blew Japan to Kingdom Come. Also...during this time, Vicktor Robotov visits the Falkland Islands and meets the Man. In this world, Vicktor has the power of healing, unlike his devilish self in the world we were familiar with. Vicktor decides he must find Hunter. The search finally ends for both parties in Afghanistan, although the synopsis on the back cover said Europe. Hunter is locked in a battle between the Red and Blue Army, fighting over one woman. Hunter and the crew must also overcome an approaching army of mercenaries from the south. The ending of the book sounds like Hunter's life is passing before his eyes, as Maloney does a quick view of the Wingman series up until the Death Orbit scenario. The book ended as if either Hunter died, or he is in a state of dreaming or a coma. We shall see if the Wingman continues. Now that Maloney has the Shuttle Ops series going, who knows.	2001-02-01
US	49996158	R1NU63YOSW7XF1	0842332251	34357729	The Mark: The Beast Rules the World (Left Behind #8)	Books	4	9	11	N	N	WELL ROUNDED 8TH BOOK	&quot;The Mark&quot; was, for me, better than &quot;The Indwelling&quot;. Covered in this book are elements of humor, horror, drama, action and suspense. An old face from the past returns in this book, for a brief moment. Things are sped up as Nicolae and his followers begin setting up locations for receiving his mark...as well as the guillotines for those who reject. The insiders at New Bablyon must get out before 30 days. A new convert joins the Trib Force in Chicago...while Tsion teaches Chaim the Word.  Although you may disagree with Mr. Lahayes bibilical interpretations...this series is a good witness tool.	2000-11-22
US	49996158	RIY9WOO3RRFSI	0671794388	67371077	Dark Mirror (Star Trek: The Next Generation)	Books	4	3	4	N	N	A must read	Like other reviewers, this book did start out slow and was at times hard  to read. But after the introductions of Hwii, a Delphine, who is an  intellectual in hyperstring theory, we get down to the plot. The Enterprise  Crew somehow finds itself in an alternate universe...and lo and behold  another Enterprise crew awaits. However...this ship ICC-1701D and its crew  are opposites. Picard, LaForge and Troi investigate after reading the  details from Kirk's experience log. What they read and find are their  mirror images, but with contrasting personas. Picard is selfish and  ruthless, as is Riker and especially Deanna. There is no Data on the other  Enterprise...and Worf and the Klingons, are actually slaves. To get back  Laforge, Picard and Troi beam over without detection and assume the other's  roles. Their goal is to download the information contained in the ship so  they can get back to their universe. Gripping moments for the normal crew.  This is a must read for a Trek fan. Per previous review, not sure why  Shatner left the TNG crew from mirrored universe. Have not read Spectre  yet. Guess this is what you get when you have various authors writing Star  Trek novels. This book would have been a good TV episode for the TNG crew.  The ending leaves room for sequels.	2000-08-24
US	49996158	R2JKZN6U0LHTFB	0446600261	364054470	Cauldron	Books	5	1	2	N	N	GREAT WAR NOVEL	This is the best war novel I've read and by other reviewers Red Phoenix is better, so I may read that in the future. I'm used to reading Dale Brown  Air Force type books, and Keith Douglass' Naval novels, but Bond uses about  all aspects of the U.S. military in this book. Agreed that France and  Germany are not realistic allies, but this is fiction. Very tense moments  when the French launch a small nuke attack on a CBG of the U.S. Good  fighting scenes throughout. This book puts you there in the action. Would  be a great movie.	2000-08-15
US	49996158	R10A0RBYQ2S7UK	0061054321	565499535	Portent	Books	3	4	5	N	N	APOCALYPTIC LIGHTS	The synopsis on the back of the book caught my interest, because I'm a meteorologist and like end of the world stories. This book takes James Rivers on a search to find out why the Earth is going through this  apocalyptic change...first by surviving a plane crash after flying through  Hurricane Zelda! Busy year for the Hurricane Center. It seems that balls of  light, sometimes one and sometimes many are preludes to disastrous events.  Plenty of destruction, from volcanic eruptions and explosions...hurricanes,  tornadoes, tsunamis, forest fires and killer hailstorms. Herbert centers  this around twins who are gypsy orphans adopted by a Diane, daughter of  eccentric Hugo Poggs, who believes the Earth is one breathing organism and  that it is finally lashing back after all these years of man made harm.  Rivers finally meets up with Poggs and sets about finding out that there  are many kids who have to power to heal the earth, but according to the  Dream Man, there are also those out there to do evil, as is the case with  Mama Pitie, a big woman from New Orleans who seeks the death of the twins.  Fast paced book worthy of those who like this type of fiction. The story  ending is predictable and it finishes too fast and should have continued  for a few more chapters.	2000-06-14
US	49996158	R1GBKCCJO18FXN	0884861783	17974489	This Present Darkness/Piercing the Darkness	Books	5	1	1	N	N	SPIRITUAL WARFARE	Both these books delve into the biblical realm of spiritual warfare. A group of Christians come together with help from above to get rid of the New Agers/Satanists in the community who are out to abolish  Christianity...with demons controlling them. Very descriptive stories about  the battles that we have here on Earth as Christians against the many foes  Satan throws our way. Imagine seeing the world through spiritual eyes!  These are the first books I've read by Frank Peretti and I plan on getting  his later works.	2000-06-12
US	49996158	R9LR91S7KTGG8	0842329285	858455094	The Indwelling: The Beast Takes Possession (Left Behind #7)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	GOOD...BUT WITH ONLY FEW DAYS COVERED	The latest in a wonderful series picks up just before the ending of Assassins...wondering who shot Nicolae? Well written and the story keeps you engrossed the whole time. Plenty of biblical references and  prophecy...such as old men dreaming dreams...Joel 2:28. Revelation Chapter  12 and the first part of 13 are covered...with Leon looking more like the  False Prophet. The only problem that I had with this book is that it  covered only several days. Per previous reviews...Tim and Jerry are going  to have to cover almost 3 1/2 years in the next 5 books. Looking forward to  &quot;The Mark&quot; in November. Last part of Rev. 13. How far will this  take us into the Great Tribulation?	2000-06-04
US	49996158	R3896IQJAPEIKZ	0786003804	588241890	Slaughter In The Ashes	Books	3	6	7	N	N	DO NOT READ NOVEL SYNOPSIS	Because it does not occur between the covers. Apparently, Bill changed his mind at the last second and do not have Ben Raines and his Rebels heading to Northern Maine. Instead they make it to New York City...meet up with  some resistance fighters who are battling punks and thugs...etc and  eventually clear the town. Then the Rebels head to the desert southwest to  finish off the gangs headed by Ray Brown...who is a killer of  animals...children and the elderly. In the end...justice is served...the  way it should be in today's society. Two stars for the wrong  synopsis...four for the story...equals three. Will continue to follow the  Rebels to the end.	2000-04-05
US	49996158	R1A6MBP4LNIMI8	084232920X	499654908	Assassins (Left Behind, Book 6)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Series keeps getting better	The Left Behind series gets better as we head toward the Glorious Appearing of Christ Jesus. In this series, we lose a member of the Trib Force, we have tensions rise among Trib Force members, with two or three  contemplating killing Nicolae. Another person joins the Force, while the  200 million Horsemen appear. Jenkins writing style seems to be improving  and this series is a must read for believers and unbelievers alike.	2000-03-06
US	49996158	R2ALYK6DLZTRM	0446363049	431645299	Vortex	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Appropriate Title	Enjoyed the way Bond starts a little skirmish and inside political manuevers...and brings about a madman wanting to dominate South Africa and invade his neighboring countries. One by one other countries get pulled into the Vortex of this scenario. Although, it would have been even better  had the Soviets been more willing to participate. Bond is easier to read  and understand compared to Clancy.	2000-02-25
