US	50006808	R2CKO5CHE5JCPO	0374281947	375817200	Personal Injuries (Scott Turow)	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Personal Injuries	Personal Injuries is told through the eyes of George Mason, a reserved and honorable lawyer who quietly functions as an objective narrator. The real hero of the story is Robbie Feaver, the kind of character who inspires both  love and hate as he constantly reveals new facets of his personality. He's  flashy and charismatic, a master of showmanship, a friendly womanizer, and  a crusader in the realm of personal injury law. He's also as crooked as  Rocky Balboa's nose. Robbie is an integral part of the corruption that has  long infected Turow's fictional Kindle County (the setting of all his  novels)¡Vhis not-so-elaborate scheme calls for him to run money through a  secret bank account and into the pockets of a handful of judges in order to  secure verdicts in his favor.<br />It surprised me that Personal Injuries  draws to a quiet close, ending with a jolt, but avoiding any sort of grand  finale. It's an intriguing and entertaining novel that, at the very least,  shows a care and dedication to craftsmanship not often found in mainstream  fiction. It's worth reading.	2000-03-01
US	50006808	R3SJXTZ34I9A48	1878067079	747060841	A Woman Like You: The Face of Domestic Violence (New Leaf Series)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A Woman Like You	The book includes interviews that tell of abuse stomping down avenues and alleyways, terrorizing woman regardless of class, race, religion or age. Hard words and Harsh contrast link victims of abuse to common ground. Vera  Anderson teaches us, through the eye of her camera and poignant interviews,  that we must open our eyes to the possibility of abusive situations no  matter what woman we are gazing at. It also includes a suggested reading  list and contact information for those seeking help.<br />Mandy Baker was  sexually abused when she was eight. No one explained to her what had  happened, and she was forbidden to talk about that night. Now, eight years  later, Mandy is experiencing problems that she cannot solve on her own. She  is constantly nauseous, especially around boys. She cannot participate in a  romantic relationship, and it is impossible for her to communicate with her  family. Increasingly confused by so many conflicting emotions, the girl  finally seeks help. When she finds the courage to express what she has held  inside for so long, her walls of silence are broken down.<br />Anderson is a  photojournalist who escaped an abusive marriage. Her portraits are of women  whose looks are remarkable for their familiarity. They are people we see  every day, gazing directly at the camera, indistinguishable in their  appearance from others in the community; but their stories, briefly told,  speak volumes.	2000-02-28
US	50006808	R2GLTKQ4FWR1D7	0446606138	793852187	More and More	Books	4	3	3	N	N	More and More	At 29, Finch More is considered &quot;on the shelf&quot; in Regency England. She is a spinster whose time for love has come and gone. She has made a life for herself as the co-owner of a shipping firm with her  brother, and has rooms in a former glorious mansion located at 7 at  Mayfield Square and finding simple pleasure helping him run an import  business. As the book opens, however, Finch finds herself in trouble,  accosted by a strange man issuing oblique warnings. From the moment Ross  forces her to tell him about the encounter, their fate is sealed. Ross's  work may have instigated the danger, but Finch and her brother are right in  the thick of it, and Ross and Finch will have to work together if they want  to keep Finch's brother, and themselves, alive.<br />Ross, Viscount Kilrood, a  mysterious and handsome troubleshooter who takes on commissions for foreign  Sultans and the like. He's sworn his allegiance to a cause that allows no  room for family or love, no matter how interesting he finds his neighbor's  sister. He becomes a customer Finch has no idea how her simple spinster's  life will change. Suddenly, mystery, intrigue and a passionate romance are  on the horizon. <br />More and More is a quirky, passionate historical romance  which Cameron fans should adore. Ross and Finch are sharp, intelligent and  funny. The dialogue is crisp and witty, and the passion is fiery. The  addition of a meddlesome ghost is quite funny, as are some of the  predicaments in which Fitch finds herself. A charming and funny romance  which fans should love.	2000-02-28
US	50006808	R3IUXOLXIKVBFU	0671041908	179618738	The Coming Global Superstorm	Books	3	76	85	N	N	The Coming Global Superstorm	According to this new book, a monstrous storm of extremely damaging winds, nonstop snow and ice is on its way and could mean the end of our civilization. Depending on when the storm arrives, whether it is Winter or  Summer, will determine whether we enter another Ice Age. The main brunt of  the reason for the storm is that the North Atlantic Current, which helps  maintain our current climate, will shift - allowing for Arctic air to  plunge southward. Bell and Strieber claim that Global Warming has moved  forward this natural phenomena of superstorms by several thousand years  because of humans' poor stewardship of the planet (use of fossil fuels,  toxic waste etc.) &quot;Nineteen ninety-nine was the most violent year in  the modern history of weather. So was 1998. So was 1997. And 1996.&quot;  This period of violent weather is a warning, say the authors. Bell and  Strieber point to woolly mammoths frozen while chewing vegetation and  frozen orange trees found in northern Siberia as proof of prior superstorms  which occur suddenly, without any warning. Many other interesting theories  abound in the book, including the possibility of a technologically advanced  civilization that lived about 10,000 years ago, but was wiped out by the  last superstorm. <br />Art Bell is a well-known radio talk show host. His show  covers conspiracy theories, UFOs, unexplained phenomena, global warming and  other unusual topics. Whitley Strieber is best known as being the author of  the bestselling book, Communion: A True Story, an account of alien  abduction. Bell and Strieber lay the groundwork for their theory of the  coming superstorm in the main text, but there is also a running fictional  account of what happens when the storm arrives. The fictional story is both  exciting and frightening; it could have easily made a gripping sf novel on  its own merit.<br />The authors show good scientific instincts in picking this  outcome rather than the standard one; their conception of a sudden  reorganization of prevailing wind currents that mixes tropic and artic air  directly in a giant superstorm is a creative and credible hypothesis. The  Coming Global Superstorm is a frightening book whose message of  weather-generated doom will hit home for those who follow our increasingly  bad weather. Even skeptics may find some of the scientific evidence hard to  refute. Fans of Art Bell's show, weather buffs and geologists should find  plenty of things to pique their interest here.	2000-02-28
US	50006808	R2GRDIKQOSCMWV	0380810662	798274730	All Night Long	Books	4	4	6	N	N	All Night Long	Annie Beckett, a photographer-writer, has researched the 1832 Black Hawk War in Wisconsin. She has concentrated her efforts on a Lieutenant Hudson labeled a traitor by the Army, but she feels she has uncovered evidence  that casts doubt on the charge. Annie needs to visit Black Hawk's Hollow to  substantiate her feelings. When she approaches Wisconsin farmer Rik  Magnusson for permission to lodge at his place, he isn't too keen. Rik is a  private man. Annie is looking to clear a mystery concerning the fate of her  ancestor, a soldier who has mysteriously disappeared in the Black Hawk War  of 1832. Rik needs the money Annie offers, however, and he reluctantly lets  her stay.<br />Things get complicated, however, when they soon find themselves  stronly attracted to each other. And this enticement begins to turn into  love. However, Annie has her own secrets that may threaten their newfound  happiness.<br />All Night Long is a daring departure for the author, as she  tackles a slower-paced story totally different from her brilliant debut  Absolute Trouble. She demonstrates versatility in her writing and  storytelling skills - All Night Long is sexy, full of sexual tension, and  will keep you reading thanks to her wonderful characters. Ladies, prepare  to fall in love with Rik : )	2000-02-28
US	50006808	R1EGIT2XR0S5ZS	0671024671	452717812	Touch Not the Cat	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Touch Not the Cat	In the Scottish Highlands in 1427, the MacClellands and the MacQuades are continuing the ancient blood feud between the two neighboring clans. Because of a dastardly deed performed by a MacClelland on a MacQuade, a  druidic witch of the MacQuade clan places a horrible curse on the females  of the MacClelland clans: periodically they shape shift into the dreaded  grimalkin, a leopard-like beast, and they always die in childbirth.<br />In  1817 London, Nicholas, the Duke of Efington, has his eye caught by  Catherine MacClelland at a ball attended by the ton. Subsequently  blackmailed into a marriage with Catherine by Catherine's father, a  Scottish Laird, before he knows it, the couple are now faced with a life  together in spite of the fact that they can't stand one another. But all is  not as it seems; Catherine suffers from the clan curse and cannot hide it  from her new husband. The couple must come to terms with Cat's incredible  magical enchantment, and see if there is a way to break the curse. But many  obstacles stand in their way, including their own stubbornness and a murder  plot against Nicholas. <br />Touch Not the Cat is an intriguing and passionate  story of love, betrayal and magic. The storyline is fresh and compelling,  and the two main characters are vividly portrayed. The fairy magic of the  Scots is woven throughout the tale and gives a mystical atmosphere that  will appeal to lovers of romance and fantasy alike. It's an excellent debut  novel.	2000-02-28
US	50006808	R1V5UOOOLL5CNY	0679444815	786105285	Timeline	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Timeline	As he has done in many of his prior novels, Crichton has again used new technology to create a powerful story. This time he uses quantum technology and about it he writes, &quot;Quantum technology flatly contradicts our  common sense ideas of how the world works. It posits a world where  computers operate without being turned on and objects are found without  looking for them. An unimaginably powerful computer can be built from a  single molecule. Information moves instantly between two points, without  wires or networks. Distant objects are examined without any contact.  Computers do their calculations in other universes. And teleportation is  ordinary and used in many different ways.&quot; This quote is from  Crichton's introduction; scientists have already learned this much about  the strange quantum world, but they know little about how to manipulate it.  Crichton greatly expands upon these strange features of the quantum worlds  to help make the concept of time travel believable.<br />In this novel, a  group of historians and grad students are working on the re-creation of a  medieval castle and town in France, commissioned by ITC, a company run by  billionaire Robert Doniger, a brilliant, but somewhat deranged physicist.  The research group assumes it is a typical research grant until they are  called in on a special mission - to return to the actual time they are  studying to help find their friend and colleague, Professor Johnston, who  is lost in that world. Their travels are beset by violent knights, warlords  and other dangers. The world of medieval France is not a peaceful one. It  has frequent battles, thievery, sword fights, rape, disease and random acts  of violence. The group must rely on what know about this world through  their observations of it centuries in the future in order to survive the  ordeal and rescue the professor. <br />Michael Crichton, who has penned some  of the best-known titles of the 90's including Jurrasic Park, Congo,  Disclosure, Airframe and Rising Sun, has written another appealing  action-thriller that evokes the chilling consequences of a possible future  technology. Crichton also does an amazing job of recreating the feudal  lifestyle of 14th century France as a time of great violence. His  recreation of the weapons, armor, fights, people and lifestyle of this time  period is fascinating. Timeline is a very visual and fast-moving novel that  is sure to please Crichton fans.	2000-02-28
US	50006808	RWSZ98UWJFRA1	0380805901	89486572	My Beloved (The Loved)	Books	3	2	3	N	N	My Beloved	In 1249, the Templar Knights held great power in Europe. A knight himself, Sebastian of Langlinais owes the Templars for paying the ransom to have him released from the prison where he was sent after being captured by the  enemy during the Crusades. What the Templars really want is the fabulous  Cathar treasure, which the Templars are convinced that Sebastian has  hidden.<br />When Sebastian returns to England to consider how to raise the  funds to repay the Templars, he sends for his bride of 12 years. Married as  children, the couple has not seen each other in years. Juliana has spent  the years in a convent and is terrified of meeting the mysterious Sebastian  who always wears a monk's habit with a cowl and hides away most of the day.  Their marriage is in name only, and Juliana wonders about the terrible  secret Sebastian hides. Still, the couple cannot help but fall in love with  each other. Will Sebastian share his secret with Juliana - and will it tear  them apart? <br />My Beloved is a unique and captivating historical romance.  Sebastian is a thrilling and mysterious hero who is sure to capture  readers' hearts. The setting is interesting and adds an adventurous flair  to the story. The passion is palpable between the two characters, and their  story is compelling. But she could have done better than this.	2000-02-28
US	50006808	R1M9YIQC1QATDK	0812523377	363093333	Jane Eyre (Tor Classics)	Books	5	11	14	N	N	Jane Eyre	Jane Eyre is a plain woman in looks, but her intelligence, strength, and feistiness make her a heroine who I think gives much-needed justice to women of her time. She is a spitfire who makes you want to know her and  hear her story, and she tells it in a clear, first-person fashion that  makes it an easy story to read.<br />Orphaned at a young age, Jane is sent to  live with her aunt and cousins, who abuse Jane physically and mentally for  ten years. Eventually ejected from her aunt's household on false charges of  thievery, Jane is then packed off to Lowood, a charity boarding school  whose conditions were deplorable; students were scarcely provided with food  and clothing (think Oliver Twist), and were regularly terrorized by the  school's cruel headmaster. If that weren't enough, Jane's only real friend  at Lowood dies during an outbreak of Typhus.<br />Fast-forward eight years -  Jane, still nearly penniless after a two-year stint as a teacher at Lowood,  ventures out to make a life for herself as a governess. Her charge is a  precocious French child named Adele, with whom she develops a fast  friendship. But the real story of Eyre lies in her relationship with the  child's foster parent, Mr. Rochester, the dolefule, aloof, yet passionate  and somewhat mysterious master of Thornfield. Despite their differing  castes and the 20 years separating their ages, their feelings for each  other grow deep, and they decide to marry. But it doesn't go exactly as  Jane had planned - their wedding ceremony is stopped when it is revealed  that Mr. Rochester is already married - to a madwoman whom he has kept  locked up in one of Thornfield's bedrooms for years!<br />Horrified, Jane  flees Thornfield, ending up a beggar on the streets because she spent her  entire savings to leave. Eventually taken in by a clergyman, St. John  Rivers, and his two sisters, Jane makes a new life for herself as a  teacher. During this time, Jane finds herself the sole heir of her father's  estate. Soon after, St. John proposes marriage to her repeatedly, but Jane  finds his cold demeanor lacking in comparison to the man she truly loves,  Mr. Rochester. (She also finds out that St. John is actually her first  cousin - a staple of this genre, it seems.) Prompted by hearing Rochester's  voice calling her name during a prayer for guidance, Jane returns to  Thornfield, only to find it burned down, and Mr. Rochester blinded by the  fire his wife set before killing herself. Naturally, Jane and Mr. Rochester  live happily ever after, but if you think this is merely another sappy love  story (which I am no fan of!), you would be wrong. In Eyre, Charlotte  Bronte shows us a depth and realness of characters which you would be  hard-pressed to find in any other novel.<br />Do yourself a favor by reading  it - you'll understand why it's considered one of the finest examples of  English literature.Soon after, St. John proposes marriage to her repeatedly, but Jane  finds his cold demeanor lacking in comparison to the man she truly loves,  Mr. Rochester. (She also finds out that St. John is actually her first  cousin - a staple of this genre, it seems.) Prompted by hearing Rochester's  voice calling her name during a prayer for guidance, Jane returns to  Thornfield, only to find it burned down, and Mr. Rochester blinded by the  fire his wife set before killing herself. Naturally, Jane and Mr. Rochester  live happily ever after, but if you think this is merely another sappy love  story (which I am no fan of!), you would be wrong. In Eyre, Charlotte  Bronte shows us a depth and realness of characters which you would be  hard-pressed to find in any other novel.<br />Do yourself a favor by reading  it - you'll understand why it's considered one of the finest examples of  English literature.	2000-02-27
US	50006808	R1UTP4JF78RB3Q	0449912558	541384114	The Sparrow: A Novel (Ballantine Reader's Circle)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	The Sparrow	This is a great read. It's not only highly entertaining, but also very thought provoking. What would your reaction be if you learned that NASA had just discovered music being sung from a planet four light years away from  earth? Would it shake your belief in God or make it stronger? What if you  were chosen with six others to travel to this planet, knowing that by the  time you returned back (if you did) those important to you would probably  be dead? What if you were the only one from the mission who made it back to  earth alive?<br />Russell blows me away with her first novel. The chapters  alternate between the present (2059) and the past (2019). So you know right  from the very first chapter how this book is going to end. And amazingly  that only makes it better! In Chapter One you meet the tortured Father  Emilio Sandoz, the sole survivor of the mission to the planet of Rakhat and  slowly his story is told. In Chapter Two we meet most of the others  involved in the mission and learn their tale right from the beginning. So  you know the beginning and you know the end, but you must read on to find  out how one turned into the other. I don't think I've read another book  where this was done so effectively.<br />Ultimately, what will draw you in and  keep you reading are the interesting characters and their complex  relationships. It is interesting to note here that Russell based the  character of Anne on herself and the character of George on her husband.  This is science fiction at its best because of the characters. Hard core  sci-fi fans may not appreciate the lack of scientific explanations (they do  use a hollowed asteroid for the planet hopping), but eventually even they  will be won over.	2000-02-27
US	50006808	R3IORJ9KZW9ND4	0140186409	999720718	The Grapes of Wrath (20th Century Classics)	Books	5	16	21	N	N	The Grapes of Wrath	The first thing that came to mind when I read Steinbeck's classic The Grapes of Wrath was its parallel to Upton Sinclair's The Jungle - the downward spiral of a migrant family who find themselves in a struggle to  subsist in abject poverty. (Fortunately, where Sinclair rams Socialism down  our throats in The Jungle, Steinbeck merely offers us a spoonful  here.)<br />Steinbeck provides wonderful development for each character in  this story; though none of them could be called bright, each figure  possesses a unique depth and personality. Tom Joad is the angst-ridden main  character who has just been released from serving a long prison sentence.  Ma is the family matriarch who provides strength and optimism even in the  worst times. Jim Clancy is the fallen preacher who joins the Joad's on  their sojourn. (Clancy is certainly the novel's most over-analyzed  character - he has been likened to a metaphor for Jesus Christ, but I just  didn't see it.)<br />This now classic tale takes place during 1930's, and is  about a family of Oklahoma Dustbowl farmers who, like countless others,  migrate to California after losing their farm. But they don't give up  without a fight, leaving only when the bulldozers come to raze their home.  Packing up all of their possessions in the family jalopy, they make their  way across a Depression Era America that has little pity on &quot;ignorant  Okies&quot;. Along the way they meet other Okies fleeing back home from  California after finding only starvation in the so-called promised land.  (One of the most heart wrenching figures in the novel is the Okie who is  returning after helplessly watching his child die of starvation). But, just  like the Rudkis family in The Jungle, the Joad's are sure that, with some  hard work, things will be different for them. Though the family does find  work picking fruit, it is not the Garden of Eden they'd hoped it would be.  Even the children must endure twelve hour days of backbreaking work in the  hot sun under the cruel eye of their supervisors at their slave-labor-like  work camps. They are forced to live in infested wooden shacks called  &quot;company housing&quot;, and to buy their food at the &quot;company  store&quot; whose prices are exorbitant and which comes out of their  already paltry pay. The most horrifically ironic part is that while their  meals usually consist of gruel &quot;with bacon grease for strength&quot;,  they dare not eat the fruit they pick for fear of swift and severe  punishment. Forced to flee the camp after Tom assaults a would-be rapist,  the family is all but lost. The final scene is heart wrenching and  unforgettable - and proves Ma's claim that the poor are the ones who can be  counted when somebody is in need.<br />The Grapes of Wrath is considered one  of this century's greatest literary masterpieces, and with good reason. Its  many layers are deeply thought-provoking - and provides insightful social  commentary which could address many issues we deal with even today. Read  it!un under the cruel eye of their supervisors at their slave-labor-like  work camps. They are forced to live in infested wooden shacks called  &quot;company housing&quot;, and to buy their food at the &quot;company  store&quot; whose prices are exorbitant and which comes out of their  already paltry pay. The most horrifically ironic part is that while their  meals usually consist of gruel &quot;with bacon grease for strength&quot;,  they dare not eat the fruit they pick for fear of swift and severe  punishment. Forced to flee the camp after Tom assaults a would-be rapist,  the family is all but lost. The final scene is heart wrenching and  unforgettable - and proves Ma's claim that the poor are the ones who can be  counted when somebody is in need.<br />The Grapes of Wrath is considered one  of this century's greatest literary masterpieces, and with good reason. Its  many layers are deeply thought-provoking - and provides insightful social  commentary which could address many issues we deal with even today. Read  it!	2000-02-27
US	50006808	R1UG7KW73B3PED	039304856X	597799819	Iris and Her Friends: A Memoir of Memory and Desire	Books	4	33	34	N	N	Iris and Her Friends	Memories are the essence of the soul. They define our relationships, explain our actions, and shape our perspectives. They are a part of us, so inextricably bound up with our very selves that it is difficult to  contemplate ever losing them. And when we do, it is a sentence more  punishing than death. <br />But that is just the sentence that Iris Murdoch,  noted British author of The Green Knight and Jackson's Dilemma and  Professor of Philosophy at Oxford, received when she was diagnosed with  Alzheimer's Disease in 1994. Her husband, John Bayley, has since written  two memoirs about his beloved Iris. The newest, Iris and Her Friends, is  Bayley's sequel to Elegy for Iris, which was published in December, 1998.  <br />Elegy for Iris is exactly what its title implies: a book that mourns the  premature death of Iris's mind, but it is also a tribute to her and  Bayley's enduring love. It is a memoir that spans the history of their  marriage, from the days of their courtship to the time of Bayley's  writing.<br />Iris is in the later stages of Alzheimer's by the time of Iris  and Her Friends: A Memoir of Memory and Desire. Here, Bayley uses his own  memories to escape the maddening routine of caring for and worrying about  his wife. Most of the memories he recounts do not include Iris at all, but  are either recollections from Bayley's childhood or remembrances of old  flames he knew before he met Iris. The memories, though they seem to have  little to do with Iris, in fact flow from Bayley's desire to share them  with his wife.<br />Bayley refers to the small respites from the worst of  Alzheimer's as Iris's &quot;friends.&quot; Her moments of clarity and the  simple pleasures of holding and hugging become more cherished as Iris'  condition worsens. The disintegration of Iris' memory is especially  poignant; her incoherence and petulance stand in stark contrast to the  gifted and articulate individual she once was. Bayley is brutally honest  about his frustration withand sometimes irrational hatred for his wife,  but his veracity does nothing to lessen the awesome devotion that is so  evident in his innate concern for and awareness of her.<br />The mundane,  domestic events of Iris and John's everyday life are interspersed with his  vivid recollections. His escapes into memory inject levity into the  sometimes desolate and seemingly hopeless atmosphere of the household. At  heart, he is a fun-loving, adventuresome, imaginative individual; stories  of his escapades as a child and his days in the army all display the same  delightful sense of humor. <br />It is this flexibility and imagination that  enable Bayley to survive the tough times of Iris' illness. His optimistic  outlook on life (&quot;Bad situations survive on jokes,&quot; he writes)  and blunt, concise opinions on suicide, euthanasia, and sex make the entire  book seem like a one-sided conversation between close friends. Bayley  allows the reader to become intimately acquainted with the inner workings  of his mind¡Van openness that is at odds with his childhood practice of  keeping secret those things he held dear. Bayley's cathartic storytelling  therefore seems to be an attempt to fill a void created by Iris' illness,  to find a friend in whom he can confide. <br />The change in the relationship  between Bayley and Iris, from marital to almost parental, is accompanied by  a change in the way Bayley sees the world. He often escapes to the comforts  of memory and fantasy, seemingly more so as Iris' condition worsens and she  becomes almost uncommunicative. Bayley reminisces about his childhood,  bringing to life the members of his family: his melancholy father, his  unaffectionate mother, and his mature, pragmatic older brothers. From the  comfort of his home and in the company of Iris, he remembers his summers at  a small beachside town called Littlestone-on-the-Sea. He recreates his  childhood adventures but scrutinizes them through the lens of adulthood.  During these retellings, he re-examines some of the complex events of his  pastoral summers: a friendship between a German man and a Jewish family and  a husband's desertion of his high society wife.<br />As Iris' illness  advances, so does our progression through Bayley's life. He enlists in the  British forces during World War II and revels in the open, affectionate way  his fellow soldiers express their feelings. During this time and his  subsequent college years, Bayley developed two significant love interests  prior to Iris. It seems a bit strange that Bayley would devote such a large  amount of page space to his former girlfriends in a memoir about his wife.  But instead of detracting from Bayley's devotion to Iris, his accounts of  these lukewarm relationships serve to reinforce the intensity and depth of  his love for her.<br />Although Bayley and Murdoch are never physically  separated during the course of the narrative, there is a wide gulf created  by Iris' illness; immersed in his fantasies, Bayley seems very much alone.  It is not until the close of the memoir that the reader gets a more  complete sense of what Bayley and Iris are like as a couple, through  Bayley's recollections of some of the later days of their marriage. He  describes dinners with esteemed authors like Aldous Huxley and a vacation  that included a ghostly visitation from Henry James.<br />Although Bayley  finds solace and escape in his countless memories, he cannot imagine life  without Iris, and he attributes his windfall of memories to Iris' very  existence. His frustrations and impatience are only a tiny part of the huge  field of emotions that are born from his love, a love that has been tested  by and has endured tragedy.<br />Overall, Iris and Her Friends is a touching  and exceptionally well-written memoir that is grounded and fanciful,  optimistic and realistic. Bayley, a famous literary critic in his own  right, adds depth and meaning to many of his stories by using multiple  references to great works of literature. Unfortunately, this can be  slightly confusing for readers unfamiliar with the books he  mentions.<br />While Elegy is a lament for what has been, Iris and Her Friends  is a celebration of the importance of life. By the end of the memoir,  having been exposed to Bayley's stream of consciousness for nearly three  hundred pages, the reader is so attuned to Bayley's heartache, so moved by  his devotion, that it is impossible to remain detached and unaffected by  Iris' death. We mourn her as if she had been one of our friends.	2000-02-26
US	50006808	R2F5LG6XGPL744	0375401113	138437884	Nightmare Town: Stories	Books	4	12	15	N	N	Nightmare Town	We are jaded. At the end of the twentieth century, our society has lost sight of the horrors of crime; we listen idly to reports of yet another school shooting, yet another cross-burning. Somehow, we have come to equate crime with visible, tangible violence, and we demand an ever-growing level  of gore to deem an act criminal. The true measure of a crime, however, lies  in its effects upon society, not in the amount of bloodshed. We have  forgotten that real crime requires subtlety, alacrity, cunning. Dashiell  Hammett's Nightmare Town, however, a collection of stories from early in  the author's career, reminds us that crime is not only visible violence; it  is the hidden schemes of the villainous, the ones that may never come to  light, which contain the frightening truth of evil.<br />At first, the reader  might find some details predictable. But if such tropes have become  conventional now, it is thanks to Hammett's masterful creation of them.  Hammett, once an operative for the Pinkerton Detective Agency, understood  the inner workings of the nefarious underworld. Writing during Prohibition,  he delved into the machinations of the criminal mind. His tales fail to  privilege gore and mindless violence; rather, he constructs a constant  battle of wits between the calculating crook and the equally crafty  detective.<br />In Nightmare Town's eponymous first story, Steve Threefall has  no qualms about staying in a dreary desert outpost town, even after  watching one businessman pull a gun on another. An innocent man dies in  &quot;Zigzags of Treachery,&quot; but while the detective knows the  murderer and the motive, the issue is left to resolve itself when the  primary mystery¡Va tale of extortion¡Vis solved. For Hammett, violence was  not a problem in itself, but rather an indication of deeper evil lurking  beneath. He repeatedly leads us down a winding path of calculations and  conjectures, based on an intimate knowledge of the crook's modus operandi,  into a world where no one really knows the good from the wicked. And while  today we may have become cynical enough to believe that its ubiquity and  violence have made crime less detrimental to society, Hammett's stories  chill us into remembering that the most serious crimes remain invisible -  and there lies the true horror of evil.	2000-02-26
US	50006808	R2CQAG4OWTBXTD	0821750933	958167085	Sheer Pleasures	Books	3	8	8	N	N	Sheer Pleasures	Sheer Pleasures is vintage Stella Cameron - good writing, lots of action, hideously evil villains, and a hunk of a hero handsome enough to make any good woman do bad things.  What Sheer Pleasures doesn't have is a lot of  romance, and hard-core romance fans will be disappointed. Action fans will  be delighted, however, since Sheer Pleasures is chock full of good guys,  bad guys, mystery, mayhem and murder. There's even a car chase. In truth,  Sheer Pleasures is really more of a mystery/action novel, with a romance  thrown in almost as an afterthought. <br />The heroine is Wilhelmina Phoenix,  a down-on-her-luck lawyer searching for a long-lost friend. Phoenix, as she  calls herself, is not having a good life. She loses her job a defense  attorney when she rats on her own client - a child molester. <br />As a  heroine, Phoenix has many good points. She's brave, she's tough, she's  loyal and she's compassionate. Unfortunately, Phoenix does a lot idiotic  things in this book. At one point, when several attempts have been made on  her life and people are getting killed all around her, she makes what can  only be described as truly stupid decisions. &quot;Come on Phoenix, use a  little common sense, please.&quot; <br />Anyway, in her quest to find her  friend April, Phoenix ends up in the Cascade Mountains of Washington State,  at the mysterious club where her friend was last employed. Forget golf and  tennis, 'cause this ain't your ordinary country club by any stretch of the  imagination. This place discreetly caters to the more perverse interests  and tastes of its wealthy clientele, who can take their pick of whatever  sexual act or illegal narcotic they care to imbibe. The club counts movie  stars, politicians and other public figures among its clientele. <br />It is  at the club she meets one of its owners, Roman Wilde, former Navy Seal and  all-around gorgeous hunk. Unbeknownst to Phoenix, he's on the same mission  she is -- except that he knows April is dead. He has his own very personal  reasons for wanting to find the killer. And once Phoenix and Roman realize  that they're working toward the same goal of finding the murderer, sex,  romance and love follow. The sex scenes are steamy, although I had a hard  time believing that 30-year old Phoenix was still a virgin, for goodness  sakes. Somehow this woman managed to go all the way through college and law  school without ever going past first base? Give us a break. Virginity in  romance novels is highly overrated. <br />At its best, this book is exciting,  suspenseful and full of twists and turns that will keep you guessing. There  are holes in the plot and they can be distracting, if you let them. The  journey gets bumpy in parts, but ultimately Sheer Pleasures gets you where  you want to go and gives you a few good thrills along the way.	2000-02-26
US	50006808	RYJ84EP5ZIWXW	0060977108	887109454	The Physics of Star Trek	Books	4	15	16	N	N	Today's Science Fiction Is Often Tomorrow's Science Fact	Nearly everyone on the planet has seen at least one episode of Star Trek. At the same time, nearly everyone has wondered about certain aspects of the show. For example, if their civilization is so advanced, how come no one has invented a cure for baldness? On the more technical side, certain  questions pop up again and again. For example, what really happens during  the process of &quot;beaming up&quot;? Why is warp 10 not attainable? How  does a tractor beam work?... <br />Like Mr. Wizard, Lawrence Krauss, who holds  a Ph.D. in physics, answers all your questions - or most of them. All the  major topics are covered, including a few minor ones. The text is  non-technical, clear and concise, but also complete. Although it is  impossible to discuss certain ideas without the use of graphs and  equations, Krauss keeps them to a minimum. <br />For each particular advanced  technology of the future, the theory behind each application is dissected,  explained, and examined. Also, given present day knowledge, the author  examines the theoretical or practical obstacles that would have to be  overcome in order to achieve this technology. In transporter technology,  for example, what exactly would be involved? Would the actual atoms and  molecules have to be sent, or would just the information (code) be  sufficient? <br />Would both (atoms and information) be necessary and how  would such a task be accomplished, if at all? <br />This book is highly  recommended. Even if you are not a Star Trek fan, you will be interested.  This book is easy to read, faithful to the physics, full of Star Trek  trivia and always entertaining. Voyager and Deep Space Nine episodes are  also mentioned, when relevant to the particular topic under discussion.	2000-02-25
US	50006808	RZVVHUL1XS4HU	0679409866	569473707	Persuasion (Everyman's Library)	Books	4	16	16	N	N	Persuasion	Persuasion was the last book Jane Austen wrote and in many ways it is the most complete example of the style that endears her as much to modern readers as it did to readers from the nineteenth century.<br />Persuasion's  plot is based around the possibility of the rekindling of a romance which  burned brightly when the protagonists were younger and which was thwarted  because the forces of familiar persuasion made Anne Elliott reject her love  for Captain Wentworth. All of Austen's plots are romantic staples revolving  around the constant impediments placed between the heroine and her ideal  man but unlike the plots of many novels contemporaneous to Austen's these  impediments are not Gothic in nature - they are merely the frustrating  minutiae of everyday life. To be sure, the denouements are invariably happy  but when we think about what would happen (if these people were real)  afterwards, we can foresee myriad problems and further barriers to  happiness. (For example, in Pride and Prejudice, how is Lizzie going to  cope with Darcy's family and in Persuasion, how is Anne, happily ensconced  with her paramour, going to cope with her own disfunctional family?) No  matter, Jane has done her job and brought the two lovers together.<br />One of  the most entertaining aspects of Austen's technique is her ironic narrative  asides. We, as readers, are given access to the feelings of the main  protagonists before they reveal them to the world (in Pride and Prejudice  we know that Darcy is besotted with Lizzie well before he declares his  amour, and in Persuasion we know that Captain Wentworth still carries a  torch for Anne Elliott while she is still assuming that all hope of a  rekindled romance has been dashed because of her earlier propensity to be  persuaded against her emotions).<br />One of the most curious aspects of  Austen's wonderful assortment of characters is the strangely brutal way she  portrays families. There is always at least one member of the principlefamily who is deeply flawed - both Lizzie's parents in Pride and Prejudice,  Marianne and Elinor's weak brother and vile sister-in-law in Sense and  Sensibility, and Emma's neurasthenic father (a mild critique compared to  the sharpness of the other characterizations). Nowhere is this  &quot;critique of the family&quot; more keenly delineated than in  Persuasion. Anne Elliot's father is a complete fool obsessed with physical  appearances above all else, and it is clear that Anne has little respect  for him or her own sisters. Austen invested all her idealization of  character in her main protagonists - in this case Anne and Captain  Wentworth. While not always physically attractive, Austen's heroines are  always morally complete (except for the ever-so-slightly capricious Emma) -  and Anne Elliot, the heroine of Persuasion, is surely more a portrait of  Jane Austen than any of her other heroines. She is no longer young, has  lost the full bloom of youthful beauty, and has been disappointed in love  because she heeded the wishes of others, and not of her heart and her mind.  <br />We know by reading any of Jane Austen's books of her fierce  intelligence, biting wit and brilliant observational powers of familiar  human behavior. And she could be deliciously bitchy, as this example from  Persuasion shows: &quot;(Anne and Captain Wentworth) were actually on the  same sofa, for Mrs Musgrove had most readily made room for him - they were  divided only by Mrs Musgrove. It was no insignificant barrier indeed. Mrs  Musgrove was of a comfortable substantial size, infinitely more fitted by  nature to express good cheer and good humour than tenderness and sentiment;  and while the agitations of Anne's slender form, and pensive face, may be  considered as very completely screened, Captain Wentworth should be allowed  some credit for the self-command with which he attended to her large fat  sighings over the destiny of a son, whom alive nobody had cared  for.&quot;<br />Anne Elliott is certainly less ironic than the voice of the  narration (Austen herself), but she seems to be a manifestation of what  Jane Austen thought of herself, or at least, how she would like to be -  intelligent, kind, sensitive to other's feelings, and most importantly,  someone who is valued for these qualities rather than for beauty and money.  Persuasion is a good read - it's not as cheeky as Emma or as involved as  Pride and Prejudice, but there are plenty of the great Austen ironic (and  even sarcastic) flourishes. And the intelligence of her writing is a  delight.	2000-02-25
US	50006808	REW2HMG5FTQIH	0316366110	182587165	The Physics of Christmas: From the Aerodynamics of Reindeer to the Thermodynamics of Turkey	Books	4	15	16	N	N	The Physics of Christmas	The Physics of Christmas is a collection of short, bright essays that attempt to explain by means of science - not only physics, but very broadly defined to include anthropology, psychology and sociology as well chemistry  and biology - all the wacky things people do during the holidays. No  subject is too small for Highfield's enthusiastic scrutiny. He devotes one  essay to the reasons Brussels sprouts are bitter; another to the  architecture of snowflakes; yet another to the biology of reindeer.  <br />Sampled in small doses, these essays can be fascinating. You may have  some dim notion that Santa Claus harks back to St. Nicholas, a holy man  from the coast of Turkey. It is less well known that some academics posit  that his suit is red because people liked to ingest psychedelic toadstools  - &quot;the recreational and ritualistic drug of choice in parts of  northern Europe before vodka was imported from the East.&quot; Santa's  vivid robes, Highfield writes, are thought by some to &quot;honor the  red-and-white dot color scheme of this potent mind-altering mushroom.&quot;  It will be a long time before I forget that the Lapps of northern  Scandinavia - who pulverize reindeer horns and market the stuff as an  aphrodisiac - actually have a genetic mutation rendering some of the men  &quot;unusually virile.&quot; Or that a cancer research organization has  found that Christmas is the only meal of the year at which most British  children eat sufficient amounts of vegetables. <br />But read more than one or  two of Highfield's pieces at a time, and you may find yourself reaching  anxiously for another egg nog. Highfield is an engaging writer, with an  obvious and endearing passion for his subject. But what he has assembled in  this pretty volume is an intimidating mountain of random scientific trivia.  Taken as a whole, it is more exhausting than explanatory. Like Christmas  cheer - &quot;the fermentation of fruit and grain by the activity of fungi  called yeasts&quot; - The Physics of Christmas is enjoyable and delightful  science for adults and teens.	2000-02-25
US	50006808	R1CYZ34M477BZ5	0553375067	559651636	Emotional Intelligence: Why It Can Matter More Than IQ	Books	4	33	45	N	N	Emotional Intelligence	Anyone over the age of thirty soon comes to realize that what was taught in school is not necessarily all there is to know in life. Consequently, the smartest people, the ones who always got A's in school, don't always  end up being the most successful. Ultimately, a high IQ is not the most  important factor when one encounters the real world. In this respect,  Goleman has hit upon a concept which deserves much more attention. <br />The  brain is a mysterious entity. No one knows exactly how it works. Certain  things are known however. The brain is divided into certain sections, each  controlling various aspects of behavior. On the other hand, it is a single  entity. Intelligence, or what we call IQ is only a small aspect of the  total human being. <br />Emotions have long been labeled as inferior to  intelligence. Over the past 2,000 years, a cultivated person has been  defined as one who is logical, rational and thoughtful. Goleman dispels  this notion however and insists that to a large extent, emotional  intelligence determines how successful we become as human beings. Feelings,  inner motivations and personal relationships are more important than the  ability to spell or recite poetry. <br />This fact has major implications,  especially for our educational system. Of course, the three R's are  important, but the ability to deal with individuals and groups is just as  important. We worry about intellectual illiteracy but don't pay much heed  to emotional illiteracy. Schools can only do so much, however. In the end,  it boils down to the family, and with the family in such disarray, one  wonders if this, in itself, is not the underlying problem. <br />Emotional  Intelligence is a monumental work.	2000-02-24
US	50006808	R3E5RV26DOD2G6	0684842025	472571075	Summer of Deliverance : A Memoir of Father and Son	Books	4	7	10	N	N	Summer of Deliverance - A Poignant Story of Forgiveness	Summer of Deliverance, written by James Dickey's son, Christopher Dickey, is a fascinating mix of biography and autobiography. It tells the story of a man who lived life to its fullest yet drank most of it away, and the son  who struggled in his shadow. <br />James Dickey, while an accomplished and  prolific Southern poet, will always be best known for his best selling  novel, Deliverance. The novel, and its subsequent film adaptation, is the  story of a fateful canoe trip taken by four suburban Atlanta men down a  North Georgia river. <br />Born to a wealthy Atlanta family, Dickey spent his  early career criss crossing the country with his wife, Maxine, and their  two sons, taking several teaching positions along the way. <br />Dickey began  to garner national recognition with his appointment as the Poetry  Consultant to the Library of Congress, an honor second only to the Poet  Laureate. He was commissioned to write and recite a poem for Jimmy Carter's  presidential inauguration. Disappointed to learn that he would not be  reciting it at the actual swearing in, a la Robert Frost at JFK's  Inauguration, but rather at a televised gala the night before, he was  barely able to recite the poem, after enjoying one too many beers backstage  with Paul Newman before the show. <br />But it was the release of Deliverance  that put him on the literary map. Deliverance was based on an earlier  Dickey poem titled Springer Mountain. Chris Dickey spends a surprisingly  short amount of time discussing the actual writing of the book, yet devotes  four chapters to the filming of the movie. While James Dickey only made  brief appearances on the set, including a cameo as the sheriff, Chris  worked the entire shoot as a stand in. Colorful stories of Burt Reynolds'  steady stream of female visitors, local inmates being used as film extras,  and the unfriendly locals are well documented. <br />The success of  Deliverance brought instant fame and fortune to Dickey, and to say that it  went to his head would be a gross understatement. It fueled an already  growing drinking problem, which led to marital infidelity and mental abuse  of wife and sons. <br />Chris describes a father who could build you up to  make you feel so special, only to tear you down with one of his drunken  episodes. He dragged his wife down until she developed a drinking problem  of her own, that she died from in 1976. Two months later, Dickey remarried  a woman more than half his age. <br />Soon after, father and son ceased to  communicate, an impasse that lasted 20 years. Chris became a respected  journalist, covering the turmoil in Central America for The Washington  Post, and is now the Paris Bureau Chief for Newsweek magazine. But his  father's failing health drew brought him home to Columbia, South Carolina,  to care for his father, and to try and begin a dialogue to help work  through their problems. <br />During their time together, James was completely  sober, and they spent a great deal of time talking about their lives.  Slowly they began the healing process before James died. <br />Summer of  Deliverance is a compelling study of the dichotomy of a public personal and  the private reality. The result is a poignant story of forgiveness and  understanding between father and son.	2000-02-24
US	50006808	R13T3DPEP86UT7	068815087X	18054547	The Lost Tomb	Books	4	5	5	N	N	The Lost Tomb	There are certain topics which seem to have a nearly universal appeal. One is dinosaurs. Another is space. Still another is Egyptology. I don't know what it is, but people have a fascination with studies of ancient  civilizations and studies of the ancient Egyptian civilization may be the  most fascinating. <br />The Lost Tomb is an informal book on Egyptology. One  need not know much about the topic as the author doesn't assume any  background on the reader's part. In addition, the book is not comprehensive  in discussing the whole of Egyptian culture or even an entire period or  pharoah's reign. It is instead a personal account of (primarily) one man's  career in archaeology and his exploration of one tomb in particular. <br />Dr.  Kent Weeks is an Egyptologist with the American University in Cairo. Weeks  begins his story with his childhood and rapidly proceeds down the path that  led him to where he is today. Much of what we know of the Egyptian  civilization originates with their burial rites and tombs. It was Weeks'  interest in locating the various tombs in the Valley of Kings in Thebes  that was his first step down the path. He was frustrated with the fact  that, even for those tombs that have been uncovered in historic times, no  map existed which accurately portrayed their locations. This led him to the  first stage of what became known as the Theban Mapping Project, or TMP. The  goal of the TMP was to precisely ascertain the locations of the tombs (and  other monuments) as a prelude to conservation of them. <br />The next step was  a logical one to take. In addition to knowing where the tombs were located  was a desire to know what the tombs looked like. Thus began a phase whereby  the surface survey (mapping the locations of known tomb entraces) moved  underground to map their interiors. Years of exploring various tombs and  mapping their interiors led inexorably to the most recent phase of Weeks'  career: the uncovering and exploration of a once-discoverd, but  subsequently lost, tomb. <br />Weeks knew of the existence of the tomb denoted  as KV 5. Designated by an early Egyptologist and subsequently entered into  by another some decades later, the location of KV 5 was only vaguely known  in this century. In fact, only the one archaeologist was known to have  entered it, and that 175 years ago. Weeks and his team set out to  rediscover this &quot;lost tomb&quot; in 1989. Their subsequent rediscovery  and painstaking exploration of this unique structure is the focus of most  of the book. <br />By the way, if this tale sounds familiar (as it did to me),  you may have seen the BBC documentary which was about this work. (It aired  on ABC in the United States.) <br />The Lost Tomb is a wonderful account of  one man's work in a field he clearly loves. To that end it conveys his  feelings marvelously. To be certain, the book lacks the rigor one might  expect of a more technically oriented study and clearly does not give equal  voice to competing theories. As it is, the necessary history is sometimes  daunting to grasp for the novice, so a more rigorous text would have  probably been as arid as the Valley of Kings itself. It is my feeling that  Weeks struck the right possible level to engender interest in his work  without unduely oversimplifying it, a difficult task for any scientist.	2000-02-24
US	50006808	R2JYU7IFVQLM73	0449225321	464975430	Geezer Factory Murders	Books	4	10	10	N	N	The Geezer Factory Murders	In the Southern California town of Camden lies a retirement home that is not an ordinary place because Angela Benbow and Caledonia Wingate are two of its residents. These two senior citizens are filled with energy and wit  that is the envy of many a younger person. In at least six homicide cases,  the feisty duo has been at the epicenter of the investigation. No one,  including Lt. Martinez, has been able to keep the intrepid pair out of the  case. <br />Lately, there has been an influx of new residents who have decided  that Camden-Sur-Mer has more to offer them than the town's other retirement  home, the Golden Years Retirement Home (also known as &quot;the Geezer's  Factory&quot;). Shortly after the new residents arrived, one of them is  murdered and the police are clueless as to who the culprit is. Angela and  Caledonia decide to solve the case and not even an attempt on Angela's life  can sway them from their course. However, things look bleak when Caledonia  is caught snooping in the wrong place by the person she and her partner are  trying to catch. <br />The Geezer Factory Murders out-cozies the best of the  subgenre with a gentle who-done-it filled with comic relief, and an  insightful, thought provoking glimpse into a retirement community. This  approach works. Corrine Holt Sawyer is a terrific story teller who has the  special ability to define the hearts and souls of her protagonists;  thereby, allowing the reader to care for them as much as the author  obviously does.	2000-02-24
US	50006808	RC3PKGGUT9XLT	0553062182	61059309	The Highly Sensitive Person: How to Thrive When the World Overwhelms You	Books	4	116	126	N	N	The Highly Sensitive Person	Assuming the reader is an HSP (probably most are, like me), the author describes us: &quot;It means you are aware of subtleties in your surroundings...It also means you are more easily overwhelmed when you have  been out in a highly stimulating environment for too long, bombarded by  sights and sounds until you are exhausted in a nervous-system sort of  way...You pick up on the subtleties that others miss. And so naturally you  also arrive quickly at the level of arousal past which you are no longer  comfortable. That first fact about you could not be true without the second  being true as well. It's a package deal, and a very good package.&quot; I  would agree. I thought I was from another galaxy. I feel stronger knowing  that there are enough people out there like me that someone has finally  studied us and identified our traits. And now I know why most people don't  see the things I do and come to some of the same conclusions. <br />Highly  sensitive doesn't mean that we cringe and cry at every little thing that  happens or doesn't go our way. It means we are introverted -- we don't get  our energy from other people, but from ourselves, from within. This means  we require more time to ourselves than most people (about 20% of society is  introverted). It doesn't mean that we don't like other people -- we are  extremely social beings. What it does mean is that we pick up on slight  non-verbal and verbal types of communication that slip past most folks. To  complicate matters, it is no secret that Western society does not favor the  introverted, and the value of HSPs is generally unrecognized. In fact, the  role of many HSPs throughout history has been among the ethical thinkers  and leaders, the givers of inspiration. <br />Aron herself is a research  psychologist, psychotherapist, and an HSP. Being highly sensitive is her  trait, too, and she is right in there with us as she brings credibility to  the various problems and issues discussed in this book. She offersfacts,  case studies, coping and transforming behaviors, and discussion on  understanding the trait, general health and medications, re-parenting  yourself, social interaction, career choices, relationships and gender  issues, and spiritual considerations. <br />I'd make this book required  reading for teachers, employers, therapists, and everyone else. Don't ever  tell a child they're too sensitive for their own good or help them  &quot;overcome&quot; their sensitivity. Revel in it, celebrate it, and  support it. Everyone wins.	2000-02-24
US	50006808	RNV6OMH08B1RF	0345409663	533056481	Servant of the Bones	Books	4	26	27	N	N	Servant of the Bones	Vampires, mummies, and witches (oh my!) are all subjects that have received the star treatment from renowned author Anne Rice. The great otherworldly writer tackles another aspect of the supernatural plane when a  genie stars in her latest novel. In doing this, Ms. Rice brilliantly  provides vivid insight into the biblical culture of Babylon. <br />Frightening  is the tale of Azriel, an exiled Jew living in Babylon, who has the  misfortune to become the favorite one of the great god, Marduk. Azriel  comes to the attention of the temple priests, who have hatched a plan for  King Cyprus of Persia to claim Babylon without bloodshed. In order for this  plan to work, Azriel's father hands him over to the priests in exchange for  the promise that the Hebrews living in Babylon will be allowed to return to  Jerusalem. In a ceremony, Azriel is to play the role of Marduk, a role that  always ends in death. <br />Death is not quite what fate has in store for  Azriel because a witch's spell separates his spirit from his body at the  time of death. This turns him into a genie or Servant of the Bones. Through  two millennia, Azriel is paged by many different masters, but it is not  until the 1990s that fate provides Azriel an opportunity for redemption.  Terrorist tele-evangelist Gregory Belkin has a diabolical plan to put  himself in control of a new world order. He summons Azriel to help him put  his plan in motion. Azriel knows what will happen to the world if Gregory  succeeds. The genie forces his &quot;master&quot; into a confrontation that  will decide humanity's destiny. <br />Readers will give Anne Rice much credit  for being a very visual and challenging story teller who uses words as a  magical means to mesmerize her audience. Her perception of a genie's psyche  has its roots in her vampire mythos. Although this tale is not as esoteric  as some of her previous works, Servant of the Bones is a brilliant piece of  fiction. The author cleverly combines elements from the horror and  techno-thriller genres into a unique and thought-provoking novel. Fans of  The Mummy will definitely want to read this work.	2000-02-23
US	50006808	R246OJOZ6X0G25	0312858310	728673628	Witchlight	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Witchlight	Winter Musgrave suffers from a problem that is much deeper than a mid-life crisis. She awakens one day with just a few minor threads of memory from her three plus decades of life. To make matters worse, strange phenomena  seem to occur whenever she is in the area. When she walks, nearby objects  enigmatically shatter. When she sleeps, locked doors and shuttered windows  mysteriously open by themselves. Mutilated dead animals inexplicably begin  to appear on the doorstep of her upstate New York cabin. Winter fears that  she is either going insane or is demonically possessed. Desperate, Winter  visits a psychic research clinic where she becomes a patient of Truth  Jourdemayne. <br />Working as a team, the duo begins to recover segments of  Winter's lost memory. The most significant information to surface is that  Winter was once a member of a magic-practicing coven. This and other  recovered threads make Winter realize that she must confront a horrible  evil presence. To survive and hopefully win her epic psychic battle with  that ghastly malfeasance, Winter travels around the country trying to  locate and enlist the help of her former coven mates. <br />Due to its great  heroine, Witchlight is a fabulous New Age novel that is as good as its  predecessor, Ghostlight. Characters from the first novel add a feel of  homecoming to this complex, relationship-driven tale. Still, though the  tale is very good and Ms. Bradley demonstrates that she remains a top gun  though this book is not on the same level of Darkover.	2000-02-23
US	50006808	R8V8KCY1HAVTL	1882593278	30999538	The Feast of Stephen: An Ellis Portal Mystery (Ellis Portal Mysteries)	Books	3	4	5	N	N	The Feast of Stephen	One of the sad facts of modern life as that the &quot;have-nots&quot; among us tend to die earlier and with less fanfare and official interest than the &quot;haves&quot;. Ellis Portal is a homeless person who at one  time was a judge. He's been on the streets for several years. Two years  earlier, he was instrumental in solving the murder of a young homeless  girl. Since that time, he's gone into isolation, living rent free in an  abandoned government hatchery. A fellow street person and friend named  Queenie walks 13 miles from the center of Toronto to find him. She believes  that one of her homeless friends, a woman named Melia, has been murdered,  although it looks like she froze to death. Since winter is just beginning  and the homeless are fairly smart about living in the elements, this  doesn't seem to be a probable cause of death. More suspicion is raised when  a threatening Bible verse is found on her person. <br />Ellis doesn't really  believe that Melia was murdered, only agreeing to look into it because of  his respect for Queenie. Several other deaths of street people follow, all  found with a different threatening Bible verse. Ellis doesn't mention it,  but he has received several of these verses himself. The other link between  all the deaths is that the victims appear to be court &quot;groupies&quot;,  those people who hang around courtrooms observing trials, possibly because  they suffered at the hands of the justice system. It's difficult for Ellis  to think about reentering the judicial environment because he is so far  from the lofty heights he occupied as a judge. However, most fortuitously  (and implausibly), he is offered the opportunity to serve as an Officer of  the Court which gives him a bird's eye view of what's happening in various  courtrooms. <br />Although the police don't seem terribly interested in the  deaths of the impoverished, there is one man named Matt West who goes  beyond a token effort. He finds out that the various deaths have been  caused by administering the poison curare. And there appears to be some  kind of connection to a crostic puzzle about saints that's appearing in the  media. <br />Aubert has a gift for writing descriptive passages, some of them  almost lyrical. She also introduces various elements of homelessness that  bring the street people closer to the reader. What does one do with a  winter coat when one has no home? How does one live with the constant  rejection by the so-called civilized people? However, I felt she was less  successful overall than in the first book in the series, Free Reign. For  one thing, Ellis is not really that down and out. He earned some money and  is able to live in a boarding house (which, oh so coincidentally, happened  to be a house where he once lived with his family). It was much more  interesting when his abode was a self-made shelter in the outdoors.  Secondly, all the victims received one Bible verse and died; Portal has  received about a dozen. I've never been too fond of the main character  having an &quot;aha!&quot; moment where all becomes clear. Aubert is a good  writer and the focus on the homeless interesting; but overall, the book is  only average.	2000-02-23
US	50006808	R1ZTODVAKMQLPZ	0061012165	349949287	Glimmering: A Novel	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Glimmering	With the discovery of Brite as a replacement for fluorocarbons, rejoicing scientists believe that they have saved the ozone layer. However, the expert scientists were quickly proven wrong when a mining expedition off  the Antarctic coast released an enormous amount of methane gas coupled with  Brite into the atmosphere. A solar flare charged the compound producing a  surging electrical current that altered the magnetic field and shredded  large chunks of the ozone layer. Thus the atmospheric glimmering began.  Electricity failed; communication became erratic; transportation was almost  non-existent; manufacturing almost came to a complete halt. The atmosphere  had become a constant array of florescent glowing colors bathing the planet  in 24 hour light while virtually hiding the stars and the moon from view.  Climates and ecosystems change for the worst as droughts, floods, famine,  and plague become an everyday occurrence. <br />The world is divided as to how  to deal with the man-made catastrophe. Some people believe that the  apocalypse is now. They use drugs and other stimulation to revel in the  final days of doom as they feast on the death throes of a dying  civilization. While others like John struggle to keep the decaying world  out of his enclave. This is the world entering what appears to be the final  millennium. <br />This apocalyptic fiction is for hard-core fans of &quot;end  of the world&quot; science fiction. Though well written and exciting,  Elizabeth Hand paints a depressing picture of a future destroyed by  scientific haughtiness. This novel is not for everyone, but those who enjoy  reading about the planet Earth imploding need to peruse this tale of dread.  The novel has a haunting quality that makes it near impossible to forget  and a lyrical writing (in spite of its gloomy topic) that seems almost  poetic in nature.	2000-02-23
US	50006808	R1VQC8I6SE0H4Y	0312203861	576308902	Hunting the Witch	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Hunting the Witch	Author Ellen Hart has been writing for several years and her work shows steady improvement. Her effortless use of language and structure make this a strong entry in the genre. This story is another in her Jane Lawless  series. Lawless, a successful Twin Cities restauranteer, is the lesbian  daughter of a prominent Saint Paul criminal attorney. These associations  offer Hart a variable platform from which to plausibly launch Lawless's  sometimes reluctant involvement in the investigation of murder and other  crimes. <br />The series also allows author Hart to explore the many  similarities of the human condition, regardless of sexual orientation. In  Hunting The Witch, several familiar themes crop up; greed, kickbacks,  towering anger, blunt insensibility, and murder. <br />The story opens as Jane  is recovering from injuries received in a vicious attack on her person in  her own home. She is staying with a close friend, physician Julia  Martinson, in a cabin near Grand Rapids. Martinson is competing for Jane's  emotional attention with a Minneapolis entrepreneur named Patricia Kastner.  When Julia's private telephone line constantly intrudes on Jane's solitude  and Julia is evasive about the frequent calls, Jane begins to have  questions about the long-term possibilities of a relationship. <br />In  Minneapolis, Patricia Kastner is trying to raise money to rehab an  important downtown building. Her plans are disrupted when the financial  officer of a local investment syndicate is murdered. <br />Two seemingly  disparate and unconnected events, apparently linked to Jane Lawless in a  casual way, gradually intertwine and weave together until Lawless and her  stalwart if charmingly ditzy sidekick, Cordelia Thorn are stretched to the  limits of their endurance and ability to solve the crimes and save their  own lives. <br />The book is well-paced and has a vibrant sense of place.  Hunting The Witch is a worthy addition to the genre.	2000-02-23
US	50006808	R2CGLQ8FUC92JV	1882593189	470902331	Free Reign: A Suspense Novel	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Free Reign	Once a powerful judge, Ellis Portal was convicted of a felony and disgraced. His life style has changed drastically. He is now living as a homeless person in a ravine along a Toronto river. While working in his  vegetable garden, he finds a ring with a black hand attached to it. Ellis  recognizes the ring as one of five that was exchanged between himself and  four other law school graduates (all of whom were white). When the rings  were exchanged, they were accompanied by a vow that each of them would  perform one favor, no questions asked, for each of the others. During the  book, this favor is called in twice for Ellis. <br />In order to solve the  mystery of the ring, Portal needs to go back into the civilized world. When  he does so as a vagrant, he is treated without respect. When he goes  through great lengths to appear &quot;normal&quot;, he is accepted. He  first visits another street person, Queenie, who cannot help him but asks  him to see how a young woman named Moonstar is doing. Moonstar is a  prostitute who spent some time at a hostel called &quot;Second  Chances&quot;. She is convinced that the well-to-do hostel is responsible  for spiriting away several people, including newborn babies of some of the  women who reside there. Although this seems implausible to Ellis, he agrees  to look into it. <br />His main connection whohelps in his investigation is a  reporter named Aliana who treated him fairly during his worst ordeals. She  is kind and helpful. She also serves a useful purpose in the story of being  able to tap into information that Ellis needs to investigate Second Chances  and the other lawyers with whom he made his pact. <br />The first two-thirds  of the book were thought-provoking as it made the reader consider attitudes  toward the unfortunates of society. However, the last third veered off into  fantastic events, clichés and unbelievable happy endings for almost  everybody. Aubert writes with great sensitivity about the intricacies of  life on the streets as well as other issues such as prostitution,  homosexuality and the vagaries of the justice system, all of which make  this a book worth reading in spite of the overly fortuitous plot  resolutions.	2000-02-23
US	50006808	R35UZD3DGINCBW	0061096229	52470361	The Price of Blood	Books	4	11	11	N	N	The Price of Blood	This author, Chuck Logan is a talented writer. He has a good grip on the requirements for successful commercial fiction. The Price of Blood is a suspense thriller with so many twists and surprises one almost need to keep  a list. To say that the reader is kept off balance a good deal of the time  is to understate the case. <br />Phil Broker is an undercover cop, with almost  twenty years in service to the Minnesota Bureau of Criminal apprehension.  He served some time in harness, but his inability to deal with tight  structure and a rigid chain of command sent him into the murky, swirling  waters of undercover law enforcement. Broker has become a master of the  sleight-of-hand maneuver. He's a veteran of Viet Nam, but he's not by any  measure a superhero, which makes him an intriguing protagonist. <br />Comes  suddenly to his home, interrupting a sting, the grown-up daughter of his  commanding officer in the last action Broker saw in Vietnam. Nina Pryce,  who's father was posthumously cashiered amid charges of lethal incompetence  and stealing treasure, has dumped her own army career while trying to clear  her father's name. Now she wants Broker's help to rehabilitate her father,  and not incidentally, her own career. Reluctantly, he decides to help,  pushed into the effort by some very weird and dangerous characters. <br />Like  Logan's other books, The Price of Blood brims with verisimilitude, action,  a pell-mell pace and a pretty high body count. It's exciting, clean, and  makes an exciting entertainment.	2000-02-23
US	50006808	R3BZ6H5BGEELKQ	044022442X	453311282	Lord of the Vampires (Diaries of the Family Dracul)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Lord of the Vampires	For the past decade, Abraham Van Helsing has lived to carry out his obsession; his need is to rid the world of vampires. By 1893 in Amsterdam, Bram realizes that the time to revenge his family for the atrocities  committed on them by Vlad the Impaler, better known as Count Dracula, and  several of his minion are at hand. Bram knows he will need help when he  goes to England to confront Dracula, who has previously turned Bram's  father and aunt into creatures of the night. <br />Bram enlists the aid of Dr.  John Seward (the son he gave up for adoption years ago) and several of  Seward's friends in his quest to end the four hundred year reign of terror  of Count Dracula. He locates Dracula, his aunt, and the very powerful  Countess Elisabeth and shockingly defeats the powerful count. However, his  victory is not savored long because all does not turn out well in Bram's  world. He now knows that Dracula was a minion of a more powerful Dark Lord,  an evil he may have to sell his soul in order to defeat. It seems he must  now confront a greater malevolence, the teacher who taught him the art of  vampire killing, if the world is to rid itself of much of the evil that  resides on it. <br />The third book in the &quot;Diaries of the Family  Dracul&quot; trilogy is the best of this exciting series because it so  closely aligns itself to the original vampire lore and further explains  Stoker's legendary tale. Vampirophyles will relish Lord of the Vampires. If  a bloodsucking sexy novel is your drink, it is strongly recommended that  you read the entire series, but especially this book.	2000-02-23
