US	50002830	RISOLPBBINM93	0595270093	551261790	Blind Guides	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Great premise, questionable execution	Blind Guides is a book built on an excellent, plausible, and thought-provoking premise, and it is full of potential. Unfortunately, the execution of this premise throughout the book is often questionable, which renders the book less successful than it could have been. Still, despite these flaws, it also manages to be a quick, entertaining read that packs more intellectual girth than most contemporary novels. <br /> <br />I will not repeat the novel's premise here, as anyone can read it above, but it is a great one for a contemporary novel for several reasons:  it is entirely, eerily plausible; it is a hot topic that is sure to inspire debate and interest; and it has obvious and relevant political implications. Armed with such a premise, the book has the potential to be an intellectual tour de force, capable of mixing philosophical elements adroitly along with the engaging action. Unfortunately, the book has too much of the latter and too little of the former. There are a handful of instances in Blind Guides where the serious theological and political issues inherent in its subject matter are given a full airing; however, there are not enough of these sequences, and they easily get lost in the more conventional thriller plot. Thus, the serious philosophical issues that are potentially bubbling beneath the surface of this book never quite rise to the surface. I know not if this was due to the author's reluctance to carry out his premise to its logical conclusion due to a fear of backlash from ultraconservative, fundamentalist Christian media sharks; indeed, this was probably not the case, since Stahlecker also has a book titled How To Escape Religion Guilt Free. More likely, the decision was made for reasons of readability and popularity. Most people don't want to slog through long conversations about theology and politics in their novels; they want suspense and action. To be sure, Blind Guides exudes plenty of the latter two virtues, but, because of its over-emphasison them, and its underplaying of weightier issues, it is not as good of a book as it could have been. In the end, then, the book's great premise ends up looking more like an excuse for framing the action than the reverse, which would have made for a greater novel. This keeps it from being a great work and makes it more like every other book out there. It is still a good book, but it could have been a great one. One is tempted not to blame Stahlecker for making this decision; after all, if he had made the more artistically viable decision, very few people would have read his book. Nonetheless, the verdict stands. <br /> <br />This is not to say that the book does not have its strong points. It certainly does, and they, despite the book's other drawbacks, serve to make it a stronger and better book than most being published today. It is a quick, entertaining, and suspenseful read; it is over 400 pages long, but it reads much faster than that and seems much shorter. It is generally well-written, and Stahlecker's style is crisp, easy-going, and readable; it flows well. Also, the novel's chronicling of the relationship between Stace and Eva is convincing and emotionally-engaging. Lastly, the serious discussions that do take place in the novel are well-done and thought-provoking. <br /> <br />A few additional faults also exist. The end of the book comes on too suddenly; the conclusion is not well-developed, and some circumstances are left vague and unexplained. For example, the fate of one character is left entirely up in the air. <br /> <br />In conclusion, this is a solid novel that could have been better. As it stands, it is still better-written and more substantial than most books that are released today, and it definitely has its merits. It comes highly-recommended for people who like a little bit of thought along with their action and suspense; however, for those who pick up the novel looking for a deep intellectual dimension may very likely be disappointed. <br />	2005-06-21
US	50002830	R2XWTZH6AT8EYV	0595341632	194154484	Love in the Time of the Apocalypse	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Undoubtedly one of the best books of the year	Love In The Time of the Apocalypse, Gregory Blecha's debut novel, is that truly rare item in the famished literary world of today:  a good book. The book succeeds on all fronts:  it is a fast-paced and entertaining read, it is funny, it is thought-provoking, and, most of all, it is a unique and delightful read. For a debut novel, it is, quite simply, stunning; I have strong doubts that more than a few books released later this year will be better than this one. <br /> <br />A truly unique novel, Blecha's book manages to avoid fitting nicely into any single genre or neat categorization. Its many elements of surrealism recall Thomas Pynchon and Philip K. Dick; its perpetual aura of paranoia, in particular, constantly calls to mind the latter author. I also detect the influence of Robert A. Heinlein in Blecha's writing. Indeed, I would not be surprised if this novel was partially inspired by, or patterned after, that writer's great satirical work, Job:  A Comedy of Justice; the two books share many similarities, from general theme all the way down to the minor motif of dishwashing. Blecha's own unique voice shines through loud and clear, however. There is no other book quite like this one. It manages to incorporate elements of science fiction, fantasy, satire, realism, and surrealism into its narrative, while somehow also managing to be an entertaining, suspenseful thrill-ride. Indeed, it is hard to put the book down upon first perusing it. There are surprises lurking around every curve of its narrative. Indeed, in less than 200 pages, the book manages to thread the course from dreary realism to absurd satirical farce - and anyone who claims to have seen the ending coming is lying. Blecha's writing itself is also quite good; it flows smoothly and is very concise - also, be prepared by having a dictionary nearby while reading, for the man appears to have possess quite a formidable vocabulary. <br /> <br />Its entertaining and charming aspects aside, however, Apocalypseis also a sober and serious:  a piercing, if satirical look at America's perhaps-not-too-distant-future. In Blecha's imagined situation, present-day Americans can clearly see reverberations of where they are right now and where they may be heading - if things don't change, and change soon. In his projected imaginings, we can see our own reflection. In addition to its political considerations, which become ever more apparent as the narrative rides along, the novel is also a serious reflection upon the redemptive and restorative powers of love. This is a strong, well-written novel that many different types of readers will no doubt enjoy; I know not how much critical or commercial attention this book has received, but it deserves to garner a considerable amount of both. Highly recommended. <br />	2005-06-18
US	50002830	R2VK5J7CXF24WT	0300093055	853845831	Long Day's Journey into Night	Books	5	6	7	N	N	The light at the end of the tunnel...	...does not exist. That seems to be the message of this dark, depressing -- and yet, enthralling and mysteriously beautiful drama. As bleak as it is, its essential humanity has rendered an immortal classic. O'Neill, of course, was not just the first major figure in American drama:  he practically made it, giving it a legitimacy and relevancy for the first time. As with many subsequent American plays -- think of Death of a Salesman or most of Tennessee William's better-known plays -- it centers on a family. In this particular case, the family happens to be a close reflection of O'Neill's own; the character of Edmund is his alter ego. In fact, the play was so autobiographical that O'Neill would not have it performed until after his death. It recounts a day in the life of the family by offering interactions between every possible combination of the four members of the family. The play is stunning and stark in its brutal depiction of the Tyrone family, a series of frightfully honest vignettes that destroys the hallowed ideal image of the close, contented American family. All members of the Tyrone family have their demons and their reasons for the inhumanity that they show toward each other. O'Neill does not judge them:  he merely presents them as they are, without pretense or adornment. Hardly even a glimmer of light appears in the play, and the ending comes and goes without leaving even a single shred of hope. With subject matter like this, why, then, has the play remained popular for half a century, and why does it retain its power? For one thing, its sheer, unabated emotion touches a deep, almost primal, human chord. It speaks to us in the brutally honest way that a television sitcom never could. Most people probably see more of themselves in the Tyrone than they would like to admit, even to themselves. Their quarrels are probably not as striking and unfamiliar as most people would like to think. The play touches the heart even as it touches the soul, leaving the reader (or the viewer) drenched in an overwhelming sea of emotion at play's end. It is a stunning play that cuts straight to the core of a large part of the darker side of the American experience. Unlike many great plays, it also reads very well and very smoothly on the page. Anyone interested in classic drama or American literature will find a dark goldmine here.	2004-05-07
US	50002830	R31GKV6POY9BJM	0140481346	826622434	Death of a Salesman (Penguin Plays)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	The shattering of the American dream	One of the most popular and famous plays of post-O'Neill theater, Arthur Miller's Death of a Salesman is the playwright's masterpiece and a true classic not only of American drama, but also of American literature as a whole. Though it came out in the late 1940's, its universal applicability has endured throughout the ensuing decades and the play still has much to tell us today. As has been noted, 20th century American drama tended to focus primarily on the family. The family presented in Death of a Salesman -- like the families in Tennessee William's The Glass Menagerie and Cat On a Hot Tin Roof -- is, in many ways, the prototypical American family, although many would not like to admit it. Salesman's dysfunctional family preceded the rosier, harmonious families that would come to dominate 50's television; it doesn't take a prophet or even a sociologist to determine which of the two is more true-to-life. In the Loman family, we can see much of ourselves and our families -- even if it is the parts that we would rather not think about and focus on. The play also deals with the capitalist system as it stood in the middle of the 20th century; most agree that, to the extent that it has changed since then, it has only been for the worse. Willy Loman, the play's main character and the prototypical Everyman, is a victim of the dog-eat-dog world of business that is a true manifestation of &quot;survival of the fittest&quot;:  good times are forgotten; nobody cares what one has done in the past:  all that matters is, What have you done for me lately? The play shows how a man -- and yes, a man:  the play was written in the 1940's, after all... and notice that the matriarch, despite the family's hard times, does not work -- is judged not by whom he is, not by his virtues, but simply by what he does and how much money he makes (of course, nearly 60 years later, this now extends to women as well.) It doesn't matter how good a man is, how much he loves his family, how much he cares for his children, how much he loves his wife -- if he can't make enough money to keep food on the table. A man who doesn't do that, at least in society's eyes, is a complete and total failure:  nothing else matters. Willy's inability to escape from this system leads to his total and complete focus on money and work, driving his attention away from what matters most to him, his family, and ends in his tragic fate. Such a plight is, no doubt, familiar to many Americans. The right to the &quot;pursuit of happiness&quot; may be in the Declaration of Independence for all to read, but achieving the proverbial American Dream isn't always that easy:  it's trying, it's difficult, it's hard -- and, indeed, it can be fatal. This is what the play tells us, and its truth is why the play has endured through the years and why it will continue to endure. This is a true masterpiece that deserves to be read by all.s for his children, how much he loves his wife -- if he can't make enough money to keep food on the table. A man who doesn't do that, at least in society's eyes, is a complete and total failure:  nothing else matters. Willy's inability to escape from this system leads to his total and complete focus on money and work, driving his attention away from what matters most to him, his family, and ends in his tragic fate. Such a plight is, no doubt, familiar to many Americans. The right to the &quot;pursuit of happiness&quot; may be in the Declaration of Independence for all to read, but achieving the proverbial American Dream isn't always that easy:  it's trying, it's difficult, it's hard -- and, indeed, it can be fatal. This is what the play tells us, and its truth is why the play has endured through the years and why it will continue to endure. This is a true masterpiece that deserves to be read by all.	2004-05-01
US	50002830	R1UASZGKQKZYGM	0451527860	655554658	Don Quixote: Complete and Unabridged	Books	4	12	12	N	N	4 and 1/2 Stars	One of the great classics of world literature, Don Quixote is very often called the greatest novel of all-time. Many also see it as the first modern novel, the precursor to all novels that have come since; some, indeed, even call it the first true novel ever written. Certainly, it is both world-famous -- almost all people, whether they've tackled this 1,000+page monster or not, seem to know about the &quot;terrifying and never-before-heard of adventure of the windmills&quot; -- and extremely influential upon all literature that has come since. The great Russian author Fyodor Dostoyevsky thought it was the best thing ever written; it was clearly one of Mark Twain's primary inspirations for Huck Finn.<br />The book has endured and remained popular and influential for four hundred years for several reasons. For one, the character of Don Quixote himself is immortal. One of the most famous characters in all literature, he has appeared in various forms throughout the centuries -- on the page, on the stage, on the screen. Clearly a huge influence upon a multitude of subsequent literary characters, he is one of the great archetypes in literature. Also, the story itself works on several levels. On one level, it is a highly comic adventure that can be read and enjoyed by everyone; a hugely-popular both upon release and still today, this is probably the main reason why it has lasted four centuries. Even at this later date, the book contains scenes that are laugh-out-loud funny, its jokes running the gamut from the most base level of slapstick to ringing burlesque and satire. Despite the novel's length, it is a very entertaining book and rarely slow:  it can actually be an exciting and fast-paced read, if one chooses to view it merely as an adventure. However, on a deeper level, the novel, fascinatingly, does several different things at once, and all very well. To begin with, it is a truly immortal satire, both on the outdated and hopelessly idealistic chivalric code itself and on the romantic books of knight-errantry that proclaimed their virtues and were extremely popular at the time Cervantes wrote this work. Wit is abundant and ever-present.<br />As an author, Cervantes clearly had several tricks up his proverbial sleeve when writing this; he employs literary devices so charming, amusing, and inventive that they have never been equaled since. Indeed, this book was so very far ahead of its time that it makes many of the supposedly revolutionary post-modern novels seem mainstream and absolutely traditional by comparison. For, after all, this is a book about books; it is, thus, the ultimate self-reflexive text. As the introduction in this edition points out, the book actually tells two stories:  that of Don Quixote, and that of the novel's composition itself. The number of self-references made in it can only be called ingenious. Several circumstances informed this. The mammoth book, as we know it today, was originally published in two halves, over a decade apart. Throughout, Cervantes constantly reminds us that the book is a book; in the second part, even the characters are aware of this, making for an intensely amusing and clever read. Also, before Cervantes published the second part, an impostor author released his own spurious sequel. Cervantes, responding in kind, changed the course of the book and wrote the apocryphal sequel into his own sequel, in addition to the first part of his own narrative! It isn't as confusing as it sounds -- indeed, it's quite delightful and inventive -- but the author himself, infamously, lost the course of his own narrative several times and lapsed into error. Of course, this, too, is noted later on in the book and commented upon as well. Literature as a whole is also commented upon. The author, in the second part, even addresses the criticisms of the first part, such as its digressions (which he defends, but stays away from in Part II) and its loose ends. The scene where the curate is selecting which books to burn and which to save is one of the most satirically-amusing ever written.<br />The book, for all of its burlesque and even occasional lack of seriousness, also brings several important questions to light. What is reality? What makes one noble? If one does noble and brave deeds only because one is deluded, is one then noble in reality, or merely a poor farce and a walking joke? For these, and many other reasons, Don Quixote is a classic that deserves to be read by all.ks to burn and which to save is one of the most satirically-amusing ever written.<br />The book, for all of its burlesque and even occasional lack of seriousness, also brings several important questions to light. What is reality? What makes one noble? If one does noble and brave deeds only because one is deluded, is one then noble in reality, or merely a poor farce and a walking joke? For these, and many other reasons, Don Quixote is a classic that deserves to be read by all.	2004-04-30
US	50002830	RXU9Y2IT28OL8	0072817186	939609893	Sociological Theory	Books	4	15	17	N	N	An excellent introductory text	Ritzer and Goodman's simply-titled Sociological Theory is an excellent introductory text for that field. At nearly 800 pages, it offers a very good overview of both European and American sociological theory, without being overlong and cumbersome. The authors give a broad overview of the origins of sociological theory in the early classical theorists -- Marx, Weber, Durkheim, and Simmel -- all of whom have an entire chapter devoted to them. They also devote chapters that give a broad overview of the rise of sociological theory in both Europe and America. After that, they devote a chapter to each of the major schools of sociological theory. They also address various other issues important to the field, such as macro-micro integration, agency-structure issues, and modernism vs. postmodernism. The book is very well-written and even manages to be entertaining as well as informative. It is also quite comprehensive, covering all of the subjects mentioned above, among others, quite well:  a nice, broad overview is given of almost all of the things important to sociological theory. Concise biographical portraits of major theorists are also offered, which often serve to add a distinct and charming personal touch to the sometimes abstract narratives. Of course, the book is not comprehensive:  that is beyond the scope of the book. Within it, the authors continually stress the importance of reading the original sources as well as other overviews in order to get a balanced and complete view of each theorist, theory, and idea. Anyone looking for a great general overview of sociological theory, however, need look no further than this.	2004-04-19
US	50002830	RZUR5RBDMJSJD	067973225X	161451712	As I Lay Dying: The Corrected Text	Books	4	4	5	N	N	The Quintessential Faulkner	Among academics and literary connoisseurs at the moment, William Faulkner is generally the greatest American author to ever write. This novel, his quintessential work, is one of the main reasons why; it also epitomizes his work in many ways, collecting in one place many of his most pivotal techniques, themes, and concerns. The book's narrative complexity is widely-noted and highly-praised:  the novel is composed of some 50-odd sections of narration by 15 different narrators. Each speaker has a distinctive personality, parlance, and way of viewing the world. The entire story is built around one central event:  the death of the Bundren family matriarch, hence the title. As with The Sound and the Fury, the structure is not linear:  it is told in bits and starts by each narrator, each revealing something that the others didn't reveal while also concealing something that the others did not. Different people often present the same event in totally different ways. The different sections of narration and the multiple narrators also provide insight into the psychology (and psychopathology) of each speaker. In the writing, Faulkner alternates between what the characters say, what they consciously think, and even what they unconsciously think. These latter two, especially the unconscious thoughts, are presented by Faulkner in a realistic and true-to-life manner:  sometimes random, sometimes seemingly nonsensical, and sometimes incomplete. In so doing, Faulkner skillfully and successfully employs the often-cited but much-maligned and frequently-misunderstood technique of stream-of-consciousness. One might get the sense that Faulkner had a hard time running back and forth between the various plates that he had spinning, in order to keep any of them from falling down. If this was indeed the case, it is not apparent, and Faulkner pulls off the immensely complicated and complex task with grace, skill, and even apparent ease where a lesser author would've fallen flat on his or her face. In my view, anyone who can pull off such a task is nothing less than a genius. As one might expect, it is not exactly an easy read, especially the first time around -- for the text simply cries out for multiple readings -- but, once one gets the hang of the narration, it moves quite quickly and one is able to enjoy the storyline to its full extent.<br />While the story and plot themselves, aside from the narrative complexity, might be quite simple, Faulkner manages to show much simple humanity in it. The Bundren family, in attempting to bury its matriarch, undergoes Job-like traumatic experience after traumatic experience. In relating their adventures and misfortunes, Faulkner lays on thick his particularly macabre brand of dark humor. The book is also positively dripping with Faulkner's particular brand of pathos. He also explores many of his central themes:  the importance of the family, and particularly the matriarch to Southern life; the importance of the church (God and religion) to the same; the after-effects of the Civil War on the South; issues of class and race; the cyclical nature of life (as in the book's surprising, if not outright shocking, ending). In all of As I Lay Dying's broad implications and features, Faulkner created one of the great American novels. If one has never read Faulkner before, this is the place to start:  it is basically an epitomization of his work, while also being an easier first read than, say, The Sound and the Fury. If one has read Faulkner before, pick this up for another great read.	2004-04-14
US	50002830	R2WNVSW75B0JAX	0192834118	187016080	The Idiot (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	4	10	12	N	N	4.75 Stars	There certainly will never be another book like The Idiot. As every high school student knows, the central maxim of creative writing is, &quot;Show; don't tell.&quot; Henry James, who criticized the novels of Dostoyevsky as big, lumbering dinosaurs, epitomized this method of literary exegesis. In The Idiot, Dostoyevsky wrote nearly 700 pages of &quot;telling&quot; and almost no &quot;showing&quot; to speak of. The book doesn't really have a plot:  though linear, there is little cohesion; in addition, Dostoyevsky takes frequent times outs from telling his story to expound on such philosophical issues as capital punishment, morality, humility, materialism, and the order of chaos. Indeed, the previous subject, or the lack there of, is really the theme and the focus of the book. In reading The Idiot, it becomes quite clear why Christ was crucified. Dostoyevsky portrays the Russia of his time as a mad, chaotic world characterized by an obsession with decadent materialism. In such a swirling mass of &quot;isms&quot;, one struggles to find a rational and coherent foothold; morality and virtue have no place. The Christian ideal -- which now seems to have disappeared from the world, if, indeed, it ever actually existed -- of humility, submission, deference, tolerance, and turning the other cheek, as personified in Prince Myshkin, the novel's title character and protagonist, also has no place. Dostoyevsky saw the Christ-like figure of Myshkin as the only hope that Russian culture and society had:  he was Dostoyevsky's redemptive figure. Unfortunately, as Dostoyevsky clearly and vividly portrays in this dark and bleak novel, such a person would most likely never be able to integrate him or herself into a culture as far gone into decadence and negative modes of thinking -- atheism, nihilism, etc. -- as his Russia was. Does this sound familiar, or does it not? The book and it multiple messages are clearly still very relevant today. One literary scholar quite accurately called this Dostoyevsky's most contemporary novel. One senses that it is even more applicable to today's (post-Communist and once again being invaded by capitalism and Western materialism) Russia than to the Russia of Dostoyevsky's own time. The book is not an especially exciting read:  there is a multitude of dialogue and very few things (with the exceptions of Nastashya's two big incidents) which can be called &quot;exciting&quot; take place. The novel, as mentioned before, is also very fragmented:  it is seemingly not structured at all, and events happen apparently at random and with no connection to each other. This, of course, relates back to the chaos of order -- or, in relation to the novel itself, the order of chaos. The discontinuity of the novel reflects and comments upon the discontinuity of society and the world itself. This is precisely why we still read Dostoyevsky today, and why we should always read him:  the anomie of Dostoyevsky is the eternal anomie of mankind.	2004-04-14
US	50002830	RXRLRJO13J8J2	0486424499	363093333	Jane Eyre (Dover Thrift Editions)	Books	5	14	16	N	N	Epitomizes its genre	More than a simple love story, a gothic romance, a Victorian novel, or even a female picaresque work, Jane Eyre is, quite simply, a wonderful book. Written, as it was, in Victorian England by a female author, Jane Eyre has occasionally been pigeonholed as a garden variety gothic romance. It is much more than this, however:  not only is it a genuine classic, it epitomizes its genre. There are several factors that set it above the pack. For one, it is extremely well-written:  Bronte's characterization is masterful and the plot is well-developed. One comes to identify with the character of Jane, who narrates, and the other characters in the book, most of whom are well-drawn, rounded characters. The book also features other elements which are unusual for a book of its kind and which were genuinely new at the time. For starters, take its protagonist, the title character:  she is not beautiful, like Edith Wharton's Lily Bart; she is not rich, like most of Jane Austen's female characters; she is not ambivalent and wish-washy like Kate Chopin's Edna Pontellier; she is not an intellectual. Jane is a well-drawn, rounded, truly believable character -- and a genuinely likable one. The reader comes to empathize and identify with her. Strong-willed, independent, and indefatigable, Jane is not a hard-to-like character like the aforementioned Edna Pontellier from The Awakening; the book could almost be called a female picaresque novel, were she not so practical and solid a character. Also setting the book above its ilk are several dark story details that set the book above the of the typical love story. Bronte also uses the book as a medium to criticize certain aspects of Victorian culture:  the inhumane and non-emphatic treatment of the poor by the rich, the denial of the pursuit of happiness, the plight of orphans and other who had no well-defined place in society, the often cruel sternness of church and other authority figures, among much else. Bronte also pauses from time to time to take on spiritual and quasi-philosophical elements, which give the book an added depth and sophistication. With all of this, Bronte succeeds in bringing the book out of the sphere of mere feminist literature:  its universal theme and eclectic contents set it above the works of Austen and Chopin, among others. Though many aspects of the novel show it to be a clear product of the Victorian era, the book, with its just-mentioned strengths, is a universal work that will endure for centuries yet to come. In this way, it is much more applicable to our present day than works such as, say, The House of Mirth, which deal primarily with ephemeral concerns. On top of all this, it is a wonderful and delightful read. What we have here is a true classic.<br />This is essential reading for any fan of romances, gothic literature, or Victorian literature in general; readers looking for a truly great and easily-accessible classic need also look no farther.me to take on spiritual and quasi-philosophical elements, which give the book an added depth and sophistication. With all of this, Bronte succeeds in bringing the book out of the sphere of mere feminist literature:  its universal theme and eclectic contents set it above the works of Austen and Chopin, among others. Though many aspects of the novel show it to be a clear product of the Victorian era, the book, with its just-mentioned strengths, is a universal work that will endure for centuries yet to come. In this way, it is much more applicable to our present day than works such as, say, The House of Mirth, which deal primarily with ephemeral concerns. On top of all this, it is a wonderful and delightful read. What we have here is a true classic.<br />This is essential reading for any fan of romances, gothic literature, or Victorian literature in general; readers looking for a truly great and easily-accessible classic need also look no farther.	2004-01-21
US	50002830	R1FLYR92XB9QIR	0312319142	298733702	Paranoia	Books	4	9	15	N	N	A modern thriller with some real meat	As mainstream novels go, Joseph Finder's Paranoia is the cream of the crop. There hasn't been one of this caliber since the heyday of Michael Crichton. Finder, a former intelligence officer who has written and published extensively in the field, writes with a flair that sets him above his contemporaries. Like Crichton, he is smart, believable, and persuasive - and also writes a hell of a good suspense story. His crisp, fluid prose keeps the story moving along at breakneck speed:  he oodles out loads of suspense that will keep those pages a-turnin'. This is, as some of the better current writers have shown, a winning formula:  it keeps the mainstream reading public interested, while also dangling enough substantial meat to insure that more sophisticated readers perk up and pay attention also. <br />I hate to keep the Crichton comparison running, as it is never fair to an up-and-coming writer to be compared to an already-successful one, but Finder's novel also shares another characteristic that Crichton's work has always had in spades:  it is timely. Corporate crime is at an all-time high in America, and this book tackles the issue. Finder explores the underhanded actions and questionable motives that drive much of the modern business world. How closely it parallels reality is debatable, but the reader's credulity is not stretched past the breaking point - and it is entertaining. Early critical raves that Finder has somehow &quot;rewritten the rules for the contemporary thriller&quot; are premature, but the book does feature several fresh aspects that are a breath of much-needed air for readers disgusted with the sorry state of the contemporary novel. Chief among these is Paranoia's unique protagonist. Far from a hero, perhaps even an anti-hero, Paranoia's Adam Cassidy is something the likes of which we patient readers have not seen in quite some time. Though the book is narrated in the first-person, here we have a story in which the protagonist's main concern is not,essentially, the book's main concern - a fact that the novel's denouement makes abundantly clear.<br />And there we get to the book's one real weakness:  its ending, which is far too inconclusive. A sequel to the book is not really possible, given the aforementioned denouement; taking this into context, the actual ending of the book is far too sudden and abrupt. It casts something of a negative light onto what is otherwise a quite enjoyable, very readable, and mostly successful contemporary thriller.<br />In summary, all fans of contemporary thrillers should line up to buy this; fans of Crichton and the like in particular should apply. Finder is a rising star in contemporary writing, sure to become very successful and popular in ensuing years. Paranoia should help him.	2004-01-15
US	50002830	R1O5R5H2YICZPR	0486426793	596871917	The Old Curiosity Shop (Dover Thrift Editions)	Books	4	17	19	N	N	For fan's of Dickens's remarkable characters	The Old Curiosity Shop is one of Dickens's most often-overlooked novels. A quite long (720+ pages) novel, it originally appeared in weekly segment in Dickens's short-lived journal, Master Humphrey's Clock. Appearing originally in this form in 1840, they were a huge success. In this novel format, separated from the journal, it still makes for some delightful reading, though sometimes it is clear that it was originally published in weekly portions. That is to say, the novel is largely episodic, to an even greater degree than his masterpiece, Great Expectations. Nell and her grandfather's trials and tribulations experienced during their travels through the English countryside are interspersed with parallel urban scenes involving different characters. Much of it goes along with little apparent connection to what has come before, with very little in the way of suspense and not much to speak of in terms of a traditional plot. The book's charm lies centrally with the characters and with the pathos and other emotions that their triumphs and travails evoke. There is little in the way of a theme -- no philosophizing or moralizing. These features belie the story's origin. It can make it something of a slow read at times, but the book certainly has its virtues.<br />These reside chiefly in, as always, the wonderful characters of Dickens. Here he, indeed, conjured up a motley crew -- from the innocent, angelic Nell to the demonic, malevolent Daniel Quilp, and everyone in-between. Like much of Dickens's work, the chief joy in reading this book comes from the pure enjoyment of reading about these delightful characters. They exist for their own sake, outside of the restrictions of the basic plot. The character of Mr. Swiveller is one of his best-loved and most-enduring characters -- and the aforementioned Quilp is a devilish, beastly fiend to rank with Iago and Cathy from John Steinbeck's East of Eden. This book's chief strengths and weaknesses being thus laid out, suffice it to say that this is not Dickens's best book, and it is not where the new Dickens reader should start; try Great Expectations or A Tale of Two Cities for that. It is, however, a delightful read for the Dickens fan and should definitely be picked up and read by them in time, as well as by anyone who loves character-driven literature.	2004-01-13
US	50002830	RJX9K29I6TYRP	0451527569	165299353	The House of Mirth (Signet Classics)	Books	4	7	8	N	N	3 and 1/2 Stars -- A brutal comedy of manners	The House of Mirth is the book that established Edith Wharton as a major writer. As such, it is not the future Pulitzer Prize-winner's best book, though it does have its strong points. The comedy of manners, particularly around the turn of the 20th century, was effectively monopolized by British literature; this book is one of American literature's first successful books of the type. As such, it is a book distinctly of its time:  its setting is certainly not universal; arguably neither is its theme. And yet, the book has been in continual publication for nearly a century for several good reasons. First of all, like her good friend Henry James, Wharton was a master prose stylist. Smart, sophisticated, and witty, her prose is perfectly-suited for a book of this type. Many of the book's features place it squarely in Victorian-era America, in the cradle of New York's upper-class -- in other words, square in the middle of the Gilded Age. The era's infamous social etiquette is on full display here:  one that knows little of it will come away from the book knowing much. In the middle of this situation, then, is the book's protagonist:  Lily Bart. Wharton uses the story of Bart's rapid downfall to satirize several aspects of New York's turn-of-the-century upper-class society:  its selfishness, cruelty, and blindness; its preoccupation with gossip and its disdain for truth; its inhumane treatment of those it believes to be inferior; and more. The book also focuses on the situation that a young lady who was born and bred from the cradle to be rich and taught no skills other than how to woo a rich man into marriage -- a woman, in short, like Lily -- was often forced into at the time. Lily, despite being the most prized beauty of the entire scene, has a seemingly-perverse record of failing to marry rich men whom she has under her thumb. In this, we find Lily to be something of an essentially contradictory character:  not a mere gold digger, but hardly a rebel, either. When sheis ejected from society's upper echelons, she does not become strong and individualistic:  she crumbles. It is in this aspect that the book differs so greatly from present-day culture and ideas about women. This is, by no means, a feminist book:  strong-minded women reading this book today, unless they look upon it from a purely-literary viewpoint, will not only despise it, but hate Lily for her failure to stand up for herself. This is an anachronistic reading of the book, of course, but it is precisely the reason why the book's relevance to the contemporary world is questionable at best (this point is illustrated by the largely-unsuccessful recent film adaptation.) Still, the book is both a penetrating comedy of manners and a fascinating period piece. Its exquisite writing style also is quite remarkable, and this is an essential book for prose stylists. This book comes highly-recommended for fans of the works of E.M. Forster and Kate Chopin's The Awakening -- and, of course, of Wharton's other writings. For a truly great work from this author, though, read Ethan Frome.	2004-01-07
US	50002830	RQP8BZLMTA88Y	0142004235	974134151	East of Eden, John Steinbeck Centennial Edition	Books	5	27	29	N	N	An allegorical masterpiece	John Steinbeck's East of Eden, which was a late, great masterpiece in the author's career, is also one of the greatest American novels of all-time. The book is unique in many ways, with many idiosyncrasies, some of them quite out of Steinbeck's usual style. To start with, many of Steinbeck's works are overtly political; among these are some of his best and best-known works. East of Eden is not among them. As the title suggests, and almost every mention of the book points out, the book is a modern retelling of the Biblical Cain and Abel story. Contrary to what such proclamations -- not to mention Oprah -- might lead one to think, however, this is not a theological, a religious, or a Christian book:  the Cain and Abel allegory is the bare bones that Steinbeck uses to prop up his own visionary, allegorical masterpiece. Aside from its non-political nature, Eden is also distinctive in the Steinbeck canon for other reasons. For one, it features almost no dialect, unlike most of his other famous works; Steinbeck's deceptively simple prose is at its best here, clear and yet philosophical. It also has a much different structure than, say, The Grapes of Wrath:  though it tells the parallel and intersecting stories of two families, it does not feature alternating chapters; it also tends to be quite discursive. It also proves to be quite distinctive for other reasons:  as an allegory, this is not a psychological novel. The actions of the characters in the novel are presented, more or less, per se, without their actions being unduly analyzed and without their inner thoughts being much probed. Their actions are not explained:  they simply ARE. In the case of the perpetually evil Cathy, this can be somewhat frustrating; much of the novel's criticism has focused upon her believability as a character. On that note, it is worthwhile to remember that, in keeping with the book's Biblical bent, she symbolizes Satan. Cathy sees only the bad in people and exploits it for her own purposes.Her downfall comes because she fails to ever see the other side of the coin.<br />And the fact that there are two sides of the coin is the point of the book. The novel is Steinbeck's wake-up call to everyone drifting toward a determinist future. Yes, we have evil coursing through our veins -- but we also have good. Which one we choose to make use of is our own choice -- and no one's but our own. No matter whom our parents are, no matter what our circumstances may be, no matter what others may think of us -- the choice, in the end, resides with us, and us alone. Steinbeck also explores some of his other favorite themes in this monumental work. One of these is the inexplicability of love, symbolized both for Adam's apparently-unfounded yet mysterious love for Cathy and by Cyrus and Adam's preference for one son over another. Another is the consequences of not being loved -- of rejection. Charles and Cal believe that their respective fathers do not love them; they use this thought to justify much of their sometimes questionable behavior. This would seem to be the message of the book for many:  that parents must love their children equally, that rejection and favoritism have, sometimes quite literally, murderous consequences and can lead to cruelty and hatred. With such an interpretation, the doctrine of original sin has its origins not in the Fall of Adam and Eve, but in God's rejection of Cain's gift. Such is the reading on the novel's glossy surface. However, it is well to remember that Cathy IS loved; and yet, not only does she does not love back, she carries out her evil deeds all the more -- not IN SPITE of her being loved, but perhaps even BECAUSE of it. This relates back to Steinbeck's true message:  it the end the choice between good and evil, right and wrong, love and hate -- regardless of rejection, regardless of whether or not we are loved -- is ours, and ours alone.<br />Timshel!	2004-01-05
US	50002830	R1V2CZ5AXG2X59	0822204509	650239354	The Glass Menagerie: Acting Edition	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A Timeless Play	The Glass Menagerie brought Tennessee Williams long-awaited and well-deserved  success. It remains an enduring classic more than half a century later -- not only on the stage, but also on the page. Williams, one of the most literary of playwrights, created a classic play that is also great literature. His love of the literary is made clear primarily via stage directions, which are sometimes quite lengthy -- whereas many playwrights, including Shakespeare, have barely any -- and also quite poetic. Like his later play Cat On A Hot Tin Roof, The Glass Menagerie is a family drama. The title is apt; the characters live -- as no doubt many of us do -- in a virtual glass menagerie, stretching out their pathetic lives from day to day. This \\"memory play\\" is a window into their world. No one is happy; indeed, they are so engrossed in their pathologies that they seem to forget they are a family -- that others have thoughts and dreams and hopes and visions of their own. They seem, at times, nearly oblivious to reality, as another reviewer quite rightly put it. Many of the scenes are, no doubt, familiar to anyone who has had to live with others. Many can surely relate to the Wingfields' existence, sad and pathetic as it is. Everyone who reads the play probably sees a little of him or herself in each character; individual scenes may stir long-forgotten or repressed memories. This  is Williams' wake-up call; he is telling us, as Neil Young later sang, to \\"open up those tired eyes\\":  see the world, embrace reality, and, above all, LIVE. Don't let your unicorn's horn break.	2004-01-01
US	50002830	R39KJ7Z6HKSAG5	0451171128	775387387	Cat on a Hot Tin Roof	Books	5	6	7	N	N	An emotional and gripping family drama	Cat On A Hot Tin Roof is Tennessee William's highly-acclaimed, Pulitzer Prize-winning play that stands on equal footing with the best American dramas ever written. While uniquely American, it is also inherently universal. Set in the American South, Williams plays out a kind of Southern King Lear. The drama that plays out is, in its details, distinctly Southern, but the implications and the deeper themes of the story reverberate in the hearts and minds of anyone who has ever been in the midst of a family struggle. A dialogue-only play that features no narration, Cat is quite a unique play for two different reasons. First, it takes place entirely in real time, with no lapses between scenes or acts -- thereby adhering to the Aristotelian unity of time and place, something that isn't seen much in post-classical drama. Also, it maintains a very high level of emotional content throughout the entire play. It starts out quickly, soon reaches a fever pitch, and never lets up. To quote an early review of another book, Joseph Heller's Catch-22, in what was supposed to have been an insult, &quot;The book seems not to have been written so much as shouted onto the page.&quot; Consequently, this is the rare play that not only works wonders on the stage, but is also a great work of literature:  it reads very well (one can only imagine the emotional intensity of actually watching it being performed.) The book moves along at a breath-taking pace, and is a very quick read, as most plays are; there is, however, a lot more depth to it than appears on the surface. The themes it deals with are timeless and have been mined by many other playwrights, including Williams, before; indeed, they probably always will be. And yet, they endure. The story of this family struggle speaks to us in ways that few plays can from the page. A true classic of literature as well as the theatre, this work will not be lost on the reader. Williams succeeds brilliantly in his goal to capture the moving, evanescent essence of a family's interactions in motion. The gain is ours.t essence of a family's interactions in motion. The gain is ours.	2004-01-01
US	50002830	R3QQBRCER066KL	0140444564	247198618	The House of the Dead (Penguin Classics)	Books	4	8	9	N	N	3 and 1/2 Stars -- Different For Dostoyevsky	Fyodor Dostoyevsky is well-known for his novels and novellas, of which some of the best ever written flowed from his pen. This book, however, is an entirely different animal. Though ostensibly a work of fiction, The House of the Dead is actually a thinly-veiled autobiographical narrative. Dostoyevsky, who endured four years of hard labor in a Siberian prison -- after getting the &quot;silent treatment&quot; is isolation for eight months and facing a firing squad, in a death shroud, only to have his sentence commuted to the aforementioned punishment at the last minute -- created this book as a sort of memoir of his experiences. The book's Introduction sets up a fictional character to tell the story -- it was Dostoyevsky's intent to have the notes &quot;written by a stranger&quot; and to have his personality completely eliminated (one suspects for reasons not entirely related to literary conduciveness) -- but we see the emperor through his clothes. Since this is not really a work of fiction, then, it is not surprising that there is absolutely no plot to speak of, no linear development, no climax, and no resolution. It is, basically, a series of anecdotes -- the more interesting things that Dostoyevsky saw while in prison. Indeed, an alternate title that I have seen for the book is much more fitting (and revealing):  Notes From a Dead House. <br />This book certainly does not rank in the upper tier of Dostoyevsky's work:  all of his long novels are acknowledged masterpieces. With that said, it should also be noted that this book is also an acknowledged classic. As a book relating the prison experience to the masses (of which there are many), it is rather fine. The book reads much like a documentary -- which, of course, is what it basically is. Unlike many other prison books, we don't see such exciting elements as dashing escapes and noble, heroic prisoners. This is the real thing. It is also remarkable how infrequently Dostoyevsky gets on his soapbox:  this is not a polemic against prisons, a tome about being a &quot;victim of society&quot;, or a tract for prison reform -- it is not even an admirable psychological portrait of an enthralled criminal. Indeed, the book, as it goes, is quite remarkable for its uniqueness. Those who like to read books of this kind -- criminologists, say -- will find much to like here and will also probably find it to be quite unique. It is also a treasure for Dostoyevsky readers, who will find much material that enlivens the author himself. Readers new to the author, however, should start with one of his great novels.	2003-12-31
US	50002830	R2A9IU5G5BMA5	0440174643	633917650	Roots (Dell Book)	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Essential for a wide variety of readers	Alex Haley's Roots has become a classic of American literature in the relatively few years since its release in 1976. Indeed, few books of any kind released during the 20th century had its impact. Its immense popularity -- the book has since sold millions of copies and spawned a critically-acclaimed television mini-series -- has left two legacies. First, it inspired hundreds, if not thousands, of people, both black and white, to trace their history back to its roots. Also, it shed an illuminating light on the plight suffered by African-Americans during America's long years of slavery (it may seem unnecessary to point this out, as the subject is no longer looked over perpetually, but, at the time the book was released, it was a near-taboo subject often relegated to the status of the proverbial pink elephant in the corner.) In so doing, it played a big role in opening our eyes to a chapter in our history that we are all-too-often prone to merely gloss over. Consequently, it also helped to bring about the revolution in African-American socio-cultural studies, doing much to make African American studies a respected scholarly field and also a popular college major. <br />But all of this is background, because the book itself also makes for great literature. Though Haley is no prose stylist, his writing style, honed by his years of journalism, epitomizes the quasi-documentary. The story is very wide in its breadth:  it covers a period of over 200 years. The product of 12 years of research and writing, Roots is the culmination of an astonishing and monumental feat of genealogical detective work. Haley was among the very first -- if not, indeed THE first -- African-Americans to trace his ancestry all the way back to his African roots: the birth of his great-great-great-great-grandfather, Kunte Kinte in 1750. From that point on, he gives us the story of his family, all the way up to himself. The story is certainly not balanced in respect to each generation:  a couple of hundred pages are devoted to Kunte Kinte, with fewer pages being devoted to each successive generation. By the end of the book, generations are glossed over in a matter of mere pages. This, however, is not to be lamented:  in order to keep the book at a manageable length, the more exciting and engrossing people and stories are given more pages (Haley mentions in his acknowledgement that his editor excised many pages from the originally very long manuscript.) The only real problem here is that sometimes the stories of some of the individual people are cut off very abruptly -- including Kinte's -- which leaves the reader hanging with a sense of incompleteness. This, however, is also true-to-life:  the families of slaves were often broken up in just this way, with one part never hearing from the other part again (this, indeed, was the case for the lucky ones, who were fortunate to know their parents at all.) This is also justified by reality:  the point where Kinte's story breaks off in the book is also the point where the historical evidence relating to him breaks off; Haley could not have taken his story any further, having nothing to go on. <br />Looked at from a purely literary point of view, in regard to its story, Roots is a masterpiece. The book starts out rather slowly for those who are unfamiliar with African culture or who don't particularly care about it. It rapidly moves on from there, reaching many emotional and suspenseful peaks. This book can make one cry and make one sad with its depictions of the utter cruelty committed by men upon men. It can also make one fiercely proud of the admirable endurance of the human spirit through all manner of hardships and suffering. The book contains a very moving story that makes it both poignant and hard to put down. The book is also very interesting for its depiction of life in Africa, a thing of which many people are ignorant, and for its unique perspective on American history -- the saga of the mighty republic seen through the eyes of slaves.<br />Recently, the long-praised book has suffered a critical backlash due to accusations of inconsistency, inaccuracy, and deliberate factual manipulation. It needs to be pointed out that neither Haley nor anyone else has ever purported the conceit that the book is 100%, certifiable fact -- how could it be? Haley, not being a witness to the majority of his ancestor's lives, was naturally forced to write dialogue and scenarios that are not certifiably factual, though many of them are based on fact. Haley admits as much in his acknowledgement and in the text of the book itself. Indeed, such a fact should be self-evident. The important thing, though, is this:  the events portrayed in Roots, whether they actually happened to the characters in the book or not, did happen to real people like them. The story of Haley's ancestors is not meant to be an entirely factual documentary:  it is a saga that speaks across the ages to the descendants of all former slaves -- and, indeed, to all people who have ever been curious about their roots. Those who claim that Haley deliberately manipulated facts for his own monetary gain are presumptuous to their detriment. Who would've predicted that a book like this would sell in 1976? Aside from that, Haley, as he mentions in the book, did not originally intend to put the results of his research down in book form:  he was clearly motivated by a genuine curiosity about his past. <br />In summary, this is a wonderful book in many different ways -- as literature, as a socio-historical cultural document, and as an inspiration and motivation for anyone wanting to know more about their roots. It is an essential read for anyone interest in sociology, cultural relations, African American studies, the plight of slaves in America, or anyone just looking for a great and unique read.	2003-12-29
US	50002830	R1F06TXO5C1IU0	0451525264	996904481	Les Miserables	Books	5	10	10	N	N	The word &quot;masterpiece&quot; does not do this book justice	Perhaps the crowning achievement of all French literature, Les Miserables is truly one of the greatest novels of all-time. It is, to be sure, an immense tome -- a monolith, epic in scope, larger than life itself. Its Table of Contents lists not chapter, but BOOKS. Still, though the novel is only slightly less than 1,500 pages, it is worth every minute that it takes to read it.<br />Clearly, the book was written in a bygone era:  the &quot;Show, don't tell&quot; rule was assuredly not in vogue at the time. Every time a new character is introduced, Hugo gives a mini-biography of them, these sometimes being 20-50 pages long. Ditto for every new scene that is introduced:  Hugo spends many pages and many words painting extremely precise, very detailed pictures of the surrounding landscape. Not only do we know where the Bishop lives, we know how many chairs he has in his house, where they are located, and each item of cutlery that goes on his dining table. This is the first such account given in the book; many more follow later. These expository passages are what make the book unique. Several of them, such as the lengthy and famous book on the Battle of Waterloo, have little to do with the basic plot of the book itself, only tying in toward the end. Given the length of these sections, and the sometimes hardly-apparent connection to the rest of the book, they are sometimes laborious to read. With that said, the reader who makes it through them is richly rewarded:  it makes the following pages that involve the people and/or locales just described that much more vivid and realistic. While reading through these sections, the reader need not worry:  every one of them ties into the story, eventually -- and enriches it, at that -- no matter how loosely they seem to relate to the plot at the time. Also, Hugo periodically stops to make philosophical and ideological points on the matters being described. This is a technique that we rarely see in fiction, and one that may sound likea cumbersome idea that takes away from the story's realism, Hugo makes great use of it. It enlivens and enriches the subjects he is exploring, serving to set the book up on another level. Indeed, this book can hardly be called mere fiction:  it encompasses philosophy, sociology, psychology, ethics, and just about everything thing else ever besides, while also managing to be a great drama, an engaging and emotional story, and a suspenseful masterpiece. Indeed, the heart of the book's greatness lies in the contrast between these long expository passages and the dramatic action, which is some of the most suspenseful ever found in literature. It is obvious that subsequent fiction has mined the treasure chest of Les Miserables to the extent that it is not hyperbolic to say that every writer, and every piece of fiction or drama of any kind, that has come since, owes a debt, often a huge one, to this book and to Hugo.<br />The other important part of this book is, of course, its characters. Hugo, even more than Charles Dickens, painted vibrant, lifelike, realistic characters that live and breathe, love and hate, and change as their surroundings and situations change -- and, indeed, they are full of contradictions and inconsistencies, just like real human beings. Hugo, who draws their portraits at length, draws them so well and so realistically that they almost seem real. It is hard to believe that the drama played out in this did not really happen and that the characters do not really exist; indeed, after the reader is done with the book, he or she has, no doubt, expended an emotional load. With these wonderful and believable characters and the dramatic story, Hugo guides the reader through the entire catalog of human emotions:  love, hate, pity, sadness, melancholy, hope -- and everything else besides. Yes, the story is certainly melodramatic, and the reader's credulity is often stretched by its series of coincidences, but the story never fails to be engaging, vibrant, and, above all, absolutely masterful. Hugo tugs at our heartstrings. Tears flowed from my eyes at several different points while I was reading this book, particularly near the end. Few books have hit me with the totality of emotional impact that this masterful work of literature did. Quite simply put, if this book does not move you, you have no soul.<br />A good knowledge of French history is necessary in order to fully appreciate the book:  events from the Revolution of 1789 onward are continually referred to, and the political and social contexts that underlie the dramatic events of the book are essential to understand. It often blurs the line between fiction and non-fiction by vividly describing actual events and then placing the books characters squarely in the middle of them. The book is rich and complex, and the plot twists and twists and becomes endlessly entangled. So many characters are introduced that it is often hard to keep track of them all. To me, it is incredible that a human mind could come up with all of this -- the huge cast of characters, the convoluted plot, the tangle of emotions and themes. Hugo, a major political presence in his day, used this book as a canvas for his criticism of the French social order and prison system. A humanitarian in the noblest sense of the word, he was appalled at the plight of those on society's fringe, and he used this book to shining a light on their condition, and, hopefully, to help them out a little. In so doing, he created a true masterpiece that went above and beyond his intentions. It is a huge, sprawling, epic work that encompasses so many themes and emotions that a thousand-word review can never even hope to do it justice. It is a true testament to the power of the human mind.	2003-12-23
US	50002830	R3VWSEWKBKV2NU	0486415864	365726027	Great Expectations (Dover Thrift Editions)	Books	5	63	70	N	N	A wonderful and beautiful book	Charles Dickens's acknowledged masterpiece, Great Expectations, is rightly considered one of the greatest novels of all-time. It depth and breadth are staggering, as it follows its protagonist, Pip, from his early childhood through his later life. During the course of his life, we encounter a vast catalog of raw human emotions:  love, hate, jealousy, hope, sadness, despair, anger, pity, empathy, sympathy -- and on and on. The story is treasured and revered for many reasons. One of its main strengths is its plot:  after a somewhat slow introductory section, Dickens puts his story in fifth gear and delivers a fast-paced and exciting story that gallops along without ever losing interest or clarity. The incredibly complex plotline, full of separate stories and incidents that seem totally unrelated to each other, but are then all harnessed together as the book heads straight toward its denouement, is also full of constant plot twists, which continue up until, literally, the last paragraph. But, of course, as with all of Dickens's major works, it is the characters that make the book. Like Shakespeare, Dickens preferred to have the story develop through the characters, rather than having the characters be mere set pieces inside of an overriding story. And what great characters they are:  the perennially paradoxical but essentially human Pip; the bitter and mysterious Miss Havisham; the beautiful and haughty Estella; the simple and saint-like Joe; the kind and benevolent Herbert; the very human convict, Magwitch -- and all of the other wonderful characters. Dickens excelled in creating well-rounded, very human characters who harbored very real and very complex emotions -- that is, human emotions. We identify with Pip as he winds through his life, because we have been there, too -- the disappointments, the surprises, the loves, the anger, the sadness. In whatever way his story may differ from our own, it is still essentially human, as is ours. For all of his complex and paradoxical emotions and sentiments, Pip is a recognizably human character -- and that is why we love him and this book. A masterpiece for the ages, which will endure for years yet to come, Great Expectations is a great book that can be loved by one and all, for, at its heart, is that grain of simple truth that says so much about what is human in all of us -- whether we have great expectations or not.doxical emotions and sentiments, Pip is a recognizably human character -- and that is why we love him and this book. A masterpiece for the ages, which will endure for years yet to come, Great Expectations is a great book that can be loved by one and all, for, at its heart, is that grain of simple truth that says so much about what is human in all of us -- whether we have great expectations or not.	2003-12-14
US	50002830	R1KAP33Z6IUQD7	061810349X	377114765	The American Pageant: A History of the Republic, 12th Edition	Books	5	8	12	N	N	An excellent introductory history text	All too often, students of history, and even history instructors, dismiss the study of history as a boring and irrelevant procession of endless names and statistics. Some history books, indeed, are rather dry and boring to read. This one is not. The authors here present a fresh, vibrant take on the oft-told tale of American history; it succeeds in re-invigorating the often stale story with new life. It accomplishes this by being written in a way that is not only informative, but also thoroughly enjoyable. Beefing up the standard information and statistics with frequently amusing and interesting anecdotes and multitude of charts, graphs, pictures, and relevant contemporary quotations, the book brings history to life. Written in this style, the book reads more like a novel than your standard dry history text. The style is unconventional, witty, and even quite often amusing. It also avoids falling into the trap of the ultra-patriotic, non-objective, trumpet-blowing agenda of many other textbooks -- while also managing to avoid boiling over with authorial opinion and negative presentations. The length of chapters is just about right as well, neither too short nor overlong. The book is rounded out with a nice appendix, which consists of the Declaration of Independence, U.S. Constitution, and a wide array of charts and graphs, as well as an index, though a fully-fledged glossary is missed. All in all, this is a great introductory text for those wishing to know more about American history, useful to both the student and the individual reader.	2003-12-10
US	50002830	R10Y0OVZ0ME2ZX	0553213237	187732421	A Room with a View (Bantam Classics)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A pleasantly-written, enjoyable English social comedy	A Room With A View is one of those light-hearted yet serious books that starts out slowly, begins to warm up, and becomes wonderful toward the end -- leaving one with a warm, happy glow. On the surface, it is a very simple book with a very simple plot and theme -- forbidden love. Indeed, it is not the plot that makes the book so enjoyable; it is the style and the characters. Outside of fiction, E. M. Forster is also well-known for essays on various aspects of literature; he also taught in the English university system. This becomes clear throughout the course of the book; he writes like a literature professor. This accounts for both the slow start and the eventual charm. Always a clever writer (though occasionally too self-consciously so), with tongue never too far from cheek, Forster can definitely turn a phrase -- the penultimate paragraph to one of the later chapters, on Lucy's \\"surrender,\\" is bone-chillingly good --, and the book is written in a generally light-hearted, jovial way. As another reviewer pointed out, he almost seems to be making fun of his characters at times. Clearly a social critic at heart, Forster shows how what seem like earth-shattering tragedies to Lucy -- the prim, upper-crust heroine -- are, at best, but ripples in the pool. Despite the recurring \\"tragedies,\\" the mood never gets too dark and heavy; light-hearted chapter titles help perpetuate this feeling. This raises the book above countless similarly-plotted novels. Forster after all created the concept of \\"flat\\" and \\"round\\" characters, and as anyone familiar with the terms knows, the former is not a pejorative. Forster stressed that a novel needs both to be balanced and true-to-life. This indeed has them:  Lucy, the well-rounded, life-accurate heroine who lives, breathes, and grows; Cecil, the walking caricature. Forster's social criticism must also be remarked on once more. In this social comedy, he deflates Edwardian England's puffed-up, self-important upper-class values and leaves us both charmed and amused. The book's deeper element lies here, as he enlightens us about the hypocrisy and xenophobia. His point should not be missed. These elements come together to bring about a delightful, pleasant, and short read that is likely to please most anyone. This is a well-deserved classic.both charmed and amused. The book's deeper element lies here, as he enlightens us about the hypocrisy and xenophobia. His point should not be missed. These elements come together to bring about a delightful, pleasant, and short read that is likely to please most anyone. This is a well-deserved classic.	2003-12-03
US	50002830	R110UFQ4L2OFFB	0534524788	542040737	Sociology in Our Times (with InfoTrac): The Essentials	Books	4	16	18	N	N	A fine introduction to sociology	As one of the most recently-developed social sciences, not to mention one that seems to be consistently popular with college students, sociology is a field that truly needs a good comprehensive text. Put quite simply, this is it. Diana Kendall, a well-respected scholar and author in the field, has managed to put together a text that manages to cover all of the major subfields of the field, presenting a lot of information on each, and giving a good general overview. All of the major subpoints of sociology are covered:  population studies, race/gender/ethnic relations, collective behavior, criminology, and more. In addition to providing a solid block of information for each subtopic, Kendall further invigorates her text with well-placed contemporary and classical photographs, graphs, charts, and other peripheral information. She also prefaces each chapter with a real-life example relating to the forthcoming information, a quiz about the information contained within (which sometimes will yield surprising results!), and more. Throughout the individual chapters, she also sprinkles dialogue boxes with separate takes on individual subissues relating to the major topic at hand and shows readers how they can get involved. As a bonus for the college student, certain editions of the book feature a CD with access to additional material, and a free four-month subscription to Infotrac, a well-known scholarly index.<br />Kendall writes well, and she presents a lot of information. Therein, however, lies my only complaint about this text:  certain chapters feel overlong. Granted, sociology is a diverse field, and this book attempts to cover it all between a single set of covers. Still, some chapters are so jam-packed with information that they become somewhat tiresome. Nevertheless, it is all good information -- and all worth reading. It is a small complaint, on the whole, that does not detract from the overall quality of the text.<br />In summary, this is an excellent introductorytext both for a college text and for the individual reader.	2003-12-02
US	50002830	R3I2R301WKR38Z	0380002450	110871072	The Awakening	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A beautiful, wide-open novel	Of all the novels that tried to portray an alternate side to Victorian society, Kate Chopin's The Awakening is one of the few to survive and one of the best. Few books more accurately describe the reality of life, how it ebbs and flows. Chopin created a set of highly-believable, rounded characters who live and breathe, who are full of contradictions and sometimes act impulsively and irrationally, just as we do. Edna Pontellier, the protagonist, is one of literature's great female characters:  complex, multi-faceted, and, above all, believable. This novel is much more, and also much less, than the feminists who point to it as their Bible make it out to be. The ending is one of literature's great ambiguities. Is Chopin advocating female independence? Condemning Victorian domesticity? We'll never know, of course, which is a large part of the reason this book continues to fascinate.  On top of all this, the novel is beautifully written. Chopin writes spellbinding, poetic prose that stirs and enlivens the soul. Her descriptions of the New Orleans area are breathtaking. A short, but captivating read, this can be plowed through fairly quickly, but it is highly-enjoyable and leaves the reader with a lot to think about for a book so short. It comes recommend for all readers of classic literature, not just feminists; it is nothing less than one of the best books ever written by a woman.	2003-09-26
US	50002830	R15T6ABJJEEDFX	067974066X	970830563	Flow My Tears, the Policeman Said	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Solid, if not spectacular Dick	Philip K. Dick is an author one either gets or doesn't get. His philosophical, paranoiac science fiction both alienates many fans of \\"hard\\" science fiction and attracts many non-genre readers. Two main questions run through his work:  \\"What is reality?\\" and \\"What does it mean to be human?\\" This is one of his better-known novels but not one of his best. The basic plot is hardly an original SF one, unlike most Dick works, which basically define the word \\"original\\":  a man wakes up in a world in which he does not exist. Dick, however, puts a unique spin on this tried-and-true formula, as only he could. Interspersed throughout are long philosophical dialogues on such subjects as the meaning of love, the purpose of pain, the nature of justice, and other such Big Matters that come out of nowhere and disappear just as fast. This sense of half-reality is a defining Dick characteristic; one critic put it well when he said that he couldn't decide if Dick's dialogue is totally unreal, or more real than most. Never a prose artist, Dick writes with a hand that belies pulp origins -- yet, paradoxically, nevertheless laces his books with obscure literary references, startling philosophical asides, and half-used concepts on which lesser authors could build a career. In addition to having one of literature's best titles, Flow My Tears, The Policeman Said takes a steady shot at much familiar Dickian matter:  paranoia, the nature of reality, alienation, and  distrust of the powers that be. One should not forget that this was written in the early 1970s, in the wake of Watergate -- keep a sharp eye out for the hilarious and disturbing Nixon mention that Dick subtly inserts -- when the whole country seemed to be falling apart. If this sounds familiar, pay close attention to the police state that Dick envisions. It actually seemed as if the country might, indeed, be heading toward the future outlined here -- and perhaps, alas, it still does.     Dick also created some great characters forthis book. They act as real people do -- irrationally and with many contradictions. Jason Taverner, famous television star and protagonist, is by no means a hero; indeed, in some ways, he is quite detestable. Conversely, the policeman, whom we are ostensibly supposed to hate, is the one for whom we ultimately end up feeling sympathy. This is yet another instance of Dick's shifting reality of contradictions and subversions. One thing I do not understand is the numerous complaints about the ending. I have read about a dozen PKD books, and this is one of the very few that HAD a satisfactory ending. With some of his other books, notably Ubik and The Man In the High Castle, I was quite frustrated at the end -- not so here. Every loose end, for once, is tied up. That said, it would have been better if Dick had left the ending as it stood and not added the epilogue -- but one gets the feeling that he did this to parody the pop culture epilogue clich, especially in light of the protagonist. All this aside, I also think that this is not one of Dick's great books. It's a fine work, to be sure, but he has certainly done better; it is not as original as his best works and generally lacks their deeper meaning. This is certainly a great book for fans, but I would recommend starting with Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep? or A Scanner Darkly.	2003-09-25
US	50002830	R35K1590RDPEPG	1593080379	272128361	Notes from Underground, The Double and Other Stories (B&N Classics)	Books	5	21	21	N	N	A goldmine for the Dostoyevsky reader	This great paperback omnibus collects Fyodor Dostoyevsky's two most famous short novels, Notes From the Underground and The Double, as well as three short stories:  White Nights, The Meek One, and The Dream of a Ridiculous Man. All five are essential reads for fans of the great Russian author. This book also serves as a good starting point for the neophyte who is just looking to jump into Dostoyevsky:  it contains an array of short works that serve to introduce the unfamiliar reader to the author's writing style. This is very valuable, because, after all, one would not be wise to jump into the author's immense novels unprepared. All of these stories introduce themes that Dostoyevsky would develop more fully in his great novels -- suicide, madness, nihilism, the existence of God. The author always was one to deal with life's Big Things, and he does not hesitate to do so even in his shorter works. All of the stories exhibit the vivid psychological realism that was Dostoyevsky's trademark. Never one for beautiful prose, Dostoyevsky much preferred to get down and dirty with the inner working of the human mind, never afraid to back away from all of the dark and terrible things that he found there. <br />Notes From the Underground, one of the greatest short novels of all-time, portrays one man in the depths of despair. A vivid depiction of the dark side of human nature, Notes is a great classic that perfectly evokes the feelings of isolation, despair, narcissism, and paranoia that continue to afflict the mass of men. The Double is another interesting story. Though an early work and not as well-crafted, it manages to put a new spin on the doppelganger phenomenon. In it, Dostoyevsky very skillfully portrays one man's lonely descent into madness -- and manages to be screamingly funny while doing so. White Nights is a brilliant short work, beautifully written, a testament to the eternal, if occasionally capricious, nature of love. The Meek One is a very dark story that examines the roots of suicide. The Dream of a Ridiculous Man offers a unique take on the nature of evil. <br />I should take time out here to note how wonderful these Barnes &amp; Noble Classics Editions are. They offer a wide range of supplementary materials to the readings, of interest to both the general reader and the Dostoyevsky reader, not to mention the literary scholar. These include:  a short profile of the author, a timeline of his life, a substantial critical introduction, effective but not overlong notes, an offering of critical opinion and commentary on the text, and even a list of discussion questions. Not least of all, they are extremely affordable. I highly recommend this volume to anyone looking to get into the author, and also to dedicated fans looking to have all of these stories in one place.	2003-09-24
US	50002830	R2W6HJPL96CFKO	1593080433	82761703	The Turn of the Screw, the Aspern Papers and Two Stories (Barnes & Noble Classics)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A great introduction to James	Henry James is one of the most celebrated, and infamous, authors in the whole of literature -- worshipped by critics and literary scholars, but often befuddling to the general reader. This wonderful omnibus collects four of his works:  the short novels The Aspern Papers and The Turn of the Screw, which are often bundled together, and two short stories:  The Beast In the Jungle and The Jolly Corner. The two short novels are quintessential James -- ambiguous yet somehow suspenseful narratives, wordy and fascinating psychologically-descriptive prose, and open to interpretation. Each are simple stories on the surface; but the dedicated reader, if he or she delves deeply into the texts, will be rewarded with some of the most subtly-satisfying short works ever pinned. The Turn of the Screw is, perhaps, the greatest ghost story ever written, a superb psychological drama which yields many treasures to the Freudian literary sleuth (as, indeed, do all four stories.) For more detailed analyses of these two stories, one may refer to my reviews of them in separate editions. Suffice it to say here that, if one is interested in reading these two stories, this volume is the place to do so, because it also contains...<br />The two short stories. As short as these two works are, they both yield a myriad treasures to the dedicated reader. They are two superb psychological dramas, finely crafted. The Beast In the Jungle, in particular, is, in many ways, epitomizes James. He takes a very simple, almost clichd premise and transforms it into something uniquely his own. His prose is very wordy, but not flowery:  it functions to convey the depth of emotion felt by the protagonist and also manages to plumb the depths of his mind. These two short works are great reads for the James fan, and the introduction to the book manages to tie them in to the longer works in this volume.<br />Anyone who has decided to take the plunge into the James canon would do well to start here. In addition to this volume's containing the four aforementioned works, it must also be stated that the Barnes &amp; Noble Classics editions are extremely nice. In addition to usually containing multiple works, which mostly cannot be found together anywhere else, they also boast a variety of supplementary materials which simply cannot be found anywhere else:  a nice, substantial introduction addressing all of the works contained within, adequate but not overbearing notes, a sampling of critical and popular opinion on the works, and even a list of questions for discussion and a page with quotes from the book. On top of all this, they are extremely affordable. Very highly recommended.	2003-09-23
US	50002830	R3FQT828PO91F3	0486266842	82761703	The Turn of the Screw (Dover Thrift Editions)	Books	5	8	11	N	N	Perhaps the greatest ghost story ever written	Henry James enjoys one of the most towering reputations in all of literature, much of this owing to his being, infamously, a \\"hard\\" author to read and understand, due to his verbosity and complexity of style; he is second in this department, perhaps, only to James Joyce himself. His short novel The Turn of The Screw in many ways exemplifies these Jamesian qualities, it being, perhaps, the archetypal James story. The story can be taken on two different levels (or, perhaps, both at once):  one level as a simple ghost story, on another as a much more complex and teasingly ambiguous pre-Freudian psychological masterpiece (these Freudian interpretations have, as is also the case with Hamlet, become so inundated into the general literary consciousness that it is now almost impossible to view the work outside of their critical context -- but it must also be noted that James himself repeatedly repudiated such an approach to this work during his lifetime.) The work can be seen as the epitome of narrative ambiguity:  it raises many questions, most of which are never satisfactorily resolved. To the reader looking for a quick read, or a good ghost story, this can be immensely frustrating; to those looking to plumb the buried psychological depths of the Freudian literary landscape, it is a positive goldmine. Few stories of this length have attracted so much literary criticism -- The Turn of the Screw being matched in that department probably only by Kafka's The Metamorphosis. James introduces many subtleties into this story that the reader can pursue as far as he or she wishes. One may wonder, for example, if the ghosts really exist, or if they are merely the projections of the governess to account for her own repressed sexual impulses. Does she have repressed sexual feelings for Miles? Are the ghosts, if they exist, there to harm and abuse the children, or to protect them? Which of the two is the governess, after all, doing? These ubiquitous questions, and many others, have served to fascinate and delight literary critics for over a century -- and frustrated many general readers. On that note, I feel that I must defend James's characteristically verbose writing style, at least as he used it for this work. The book is not too wordy or descriptive:  the long stretches without dialogue provide necessary, not to mention fascinating, glimpses into the inner workings of the narrator's mind. Clearly, James is not being wordy just in order to make the story longer:  there are just as many instances of details being left out, facts held back, and descriptions being intentionally vague as there are instances of what many would consider superfluous. James here shows himself to be nothing less than a true master, his characteristic and unique use and manipulation of the English language his defining trait. If this is not one's cup of meat, one does not have to read it -- anyway, why, one wonders, would the casual reader ever want to attempt James? That said, if one is interested in James, or in classic literature, then this is a very good book to start with. It is short, and it serves well to introduce the reader to James's writing style. If one is merely looking for an entertaining ghost story, on the other hand, one had better look elsewhere.<br />Advice on which edition to get:  if one is merely attempting to own this story, without the peripheral critical analyses, then the Dover Thrift Edition comes highly recommended:  it is full-text and extremely inexpensive. If one wishes to get a better grasp of the story, however, and explore its many complexities and underlying subtleties, then one should shell out the extra cash for an annotated edition, of which many exist.	2003-09-22
US	50002830	R3B7EEH7ACN6MH	0140432248	82761703	The Aspern Papers and The Turn of the Screw	Books	5	2	4	N	N	Two for one	This omnibus collects two of Henry James's best and most well-known shorter works, The Aspern Papers and The Turn of the Screw. Both adhere to James' reputation of being very dense and operating on multiple levels at once. The Turn of the Screw, in particular, though very short for a novel, is almost startlingly complex -- practically begging for multiple close readings and a thorough overview of the criticism. Specifics aside, both stories are masterful suspense exercises. The Aspern Papers manages to work up a general feeling of expectancy and apprehension, while The Turn of the Screw conjures up dark and sinister vision of intrigue. They manage to keep the reader reading -- and reading -- and re-reading. Both are filtered, of course, through James's characteristically ambiguous narrative. It has been well-said that James surrounds a narrative and illuminates parts  with a flickering light rather than pinning it down. The endings of both stories, at least one of which is positively shocking, leave many elements unresolved. James forces us reader to draw our own conclusions. This, along with his generally unique style, makes great reading for the dedicated. Here are two of his best stories for our enjoyment.	2003-09-22
US	50002830	R3V9OJE29IFE9W	0486295729	810233317	The Double (Dover Thrift Editions)	Books	4	9	10	N	N	A solid, short Dostoyevsky	This short Dostoyevsky novel, his second published work, is a classic of psychological realism and also paved the way for some of his later work. The tradition of the doppelganger story in literature is far from an original one, but Dostoyevsky deals with it here in a unique new way. Rather than focusing on the supernatural or fantastic aspects of the story, Dostoyevsky here explores the human mind, laying down, for the first time, the mastery of psychological realism which he would come to perfect in his later, more ambitious works. One of the things that really makes the book work is that it is told in the first-person. We hear the story of the man who meets his double in his own words, and we get to watch his mind as it continually unravels. This book epitomizes the concept of the \\"unreliable narrator\\":  Golyadkin's speech becomes increasingly feverish, paranoiac, and less credible as the story winds along. It is fascinating to watch the disintegration of his mind. His rambling, incoherent speeches, characterized by incomplete thoughts and repetition, is drawn out by Dostoyevsky to almost comic levels, foreshadowing his masterful use of comically divergent dialogue in his later novel Demons. The story is told in a very fast-paced, fly-by-the-seat-of-the-pants manner, with the narrator's mind racing along at a feverish pitch, which his words seem scarcely able to keep up with. His rambling narrative leaves a lot of things in doubt, and the reader is left to ponder certain questions which are never fully resolved:  does the double actually exist? just what happens at the end? While this ambiguity might be slightly frustrating on a superficial level, it actually adds to the overall feel of the book -- it is narrated, after all, by a crazy man -- and helps to give the book its distinctively paranoiac, schizophrenic feel. Dostoyevsky herein explores such fascinatingly elusive psychological concepts as paranoia, insanity, jealousy, and mystery. A great classic that clearly both fascinated and influenced everyone from Freud to Kafka to Philip K. Dick, The Double is a great treat for the Dostoyevsky reader.arly both fascinated and influenced everyone from Freud to Kafka to Philip K. Dick, The Double is a great treat for the Dostoyevsky reader.	2003-09-21
US	50002830	R3SO7GK737NYEO	0553293419	200147133	The Currents of Space (The Empire Novels)	Books	4	4	5	N	N	A solid slab of science fiction, if not a classic	The Currents of Space is the second of Isaac Asimov's Empire novels, the first one being The Stars, Like Dust, and the final one being Pebble In The Sky. The Empire books fill the chronological gap between his Robot book and his Foundation books, all of which intertwine together to form a very long and convoluted fictional universe (this is ignoring the books set in this universe that were written by other authors.) <br />Sound confusing? It is; but don't let that worry you. Although the books are best read in sequence, they all work fine on their own as well, outside of the larger universe in which they are set, and they will serve the reader just fine, if he or she elects to pick and choose, though they will be missing a lot. I have no doubt that, after reading any one of the books, any reader will want to read all of them, owing to their high level of quality.<br />This particular novel is a fast-moving, suspenseful, science fiction/mystery/adventure romp. Improving upon the previous Empire novel, Asimov here wrote a very tight, smooth book that is very entertaining to read and can be enjoyed by almost anyone, whether they are a fan of science fiction or not. Like most of Asimov's novels, the book, though ostensibly science fiction, has the basic structure and feel of a mystery novel. Not surprisingly, then, his novels, though always scientifically literate and full of interesting scientific ideas, not to mention eminently worthy political and philosophical concepts, have a generally wide appeal. This is one of the reasons that Asimov is one of the most well-known and perennially popular of all science fiction writers:  many of his novels feature a mainstream appeal that is atypical for the genre. His books are also invariably well-written and deserving of their large readership. The Currents of Space is no exception. Here Asimov displays his immense plotting talents, which would come to full fruition in his later works, weaving an interesting and complex web ofmystery, intrigue, and suspense. He writes a solid, tight story that will keep the reader interested and entertained -- not to mention on his or her toes -- all the way through. It also makes very clear one of the most admirable traits of Dr. Asimov's:  his love of peace. This book, like the later Foundation stories, features practical, sensible political solutions as an alternative to war. One cannot help but admire the good doctor for not using his premise of a futuristic world and technology as an excuse to fill his pages with senseless interstellar wars, as many science fiction writers, even the great ones, often do.<br />This is a book that any fan of Asimov will definitely want to read. That said, although it is a definite improvement on its prequel, this is not on the same level as some of the author's later and better-known work:  though it is a solid story, well-told, it lacks, for the most part, the extra layer of deeper meaning that much of his later work would contain. It is for this reason that I give the work four stars. It is a bloody shame that the entire Empire series is no longer in print:  they are a worthy series of books and fill in an important chronological niche in the Asimovian universe. Pick it up if you can find it.	2003-09-20
US	50002830	R3L1DPGUUJV6NS	0553212443	419595190	A Christmas Carol	Books	5	3	4	N	N	A book that everyone should read	There is no reason to go into the plot or particulars of A Christmas Carol:  I know of no one who is not conversant with it. Almost everyone, from young children to senior citizens, has at least seen it in a screen adaptation. It has become an integral part of the Christmas season, an immortal classic, beloved by both young and old. That said, if you have never read the original text, you owe it to yourself to do so. This story, though short and simple, is a timeless classic for a reason:  it is immaculately written, has a great theme, and is undeniably heartwarming. Dickens is at his brief best here, deftly and skillfully weaving this immortal story in a spellbinding manner, making great and timeless art out of what would have been an overly-sugary-sweet mess in the hands of a lesser writer. This story is good enough, and well-written enough, to melt the cold hard of any cynic. The prose style he uses in this book is just about perfect:  it makes for a fast-paced read which can easily be read in one setting, while also managing to be entertaining, and even suspenseful -- with a fine moral to boot. The story is also more than it seems:  in addition to the simple morality tale, Dickens manages to weave in some social criticism, while also intermixing elements of horror and not a slight bit of humor. This is one of the few books that I truly recommend to everyone. Everyone can read it, and everyone can enjoy it. An essential classic.	2003-09-18
US	50002830	RSQRRA8PM2IFC	0671821393	244518582	The Challenge of the Spaceship	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Some of Clarke's better non-fiction writing	As many Arthur C. Clarke fans know, the great writer was not only the Dean of science fiction, but was also, at least pre-2001, one of the world's leading popular science writers. He wrote many volumes of non-fiction, most of them now out-of-print. One thing that anyone who has read through a good amount of them has no doubt noticed is that some essays pop up in more than one volume, and that some of the writing is a good deal more interesting than some others. The Challenge of the Spaceship is, thankfully, one of the best non-fiction collections that Clarke ever wrote. The book's title is somewhat misleading (so titled, probably, to parallel with the more aptly-titled The Challenge of the Sea). The book does not deal directly with spaceships, as far as their own technicalities and aspects of composition. What the book focuses on, instead, are the challenges that the spaceship is faced with overcoming -- exploring the solar system, reaching the stars, etc. -- and, most specifically, the cultural, artistic, philosophical, and even theological ramifications of attempting and meeting such challenges. This is far less prediction-oriented than some of Clarke's other work, and it is a real treat to any fan of the author's. The range of subjects and material that Clarke covers is nothing short of fascinating. As always, Clarke uses his encyclopedic knowledge of science, and astronomy in particular, to positively dazzle and astound the reader. He also, thankfully, possesses the rare ability to take difficult and complex concepts and put them into terms that most readers can understand. One will learn much from this book, things both practically useful and just quite simply interesting. To boot, the philosophical asides that Clarke can just never keep from returning back to are at turns highly imaginative and extremely interesting, thoughtful, and enlightening. As always, he writes with a highly-poetic that is a joy to read, and his ever-present, if subtle, sense of humor isto be found in spades. This book also includes one of my all-time favorite of Clarke's essays The Star of the Magi, in which he explores the question of which astronomical phenomena constituted the Star of Bethlehem. This is an essential book for fans of Clarke's non-fiction.	2003-09-17
US	50002830	R30RIAAF683ZQK	0451527666	691105951	Ethan Frome (Signet Classics)	Books	5	0	1	N	N	One of the great short works	Edith Wharton's Ethan Frome is one of modern fiction's great short works . This is true not because of the story, which is the age-old one of forbidden love, but because of the stark, bleak, but ultimately beautiful way in which it is told. Set against the dark backdrop of the late nineteenth-century New England countryside, this novella tells the story of the title character, a splendid and complex creation; his domineering, tyrannical wife; and her cousin Mattie, whom Ethan falls for in his despair. Ethan is a wonderful creation, a multi-faceted person full of emotion, complexities, and the inherent contradictions that make up all of us. He is a distinctly human, believable character, and Wharton makes us feel for him. The strength of her characterization and the beauty of her prose make us feel both sympathetic to the character of Ethan and to the growing love between him and Mattie. It is also a testament to Wharton's virtuosity that she makes us positively loathe Zeena, Ethan's Wife, even though she is not, when one stops to actually think about it, a very despicable character! This story, though short, is loaded with the kind of piercing psychological insight that has led many to label Wharton a female Henry James. This is selling her short, however; she has her own worthwhile style. She must also be commended for not taking the easy path as a female writer. Writing part of the book in the first-person from a man's point of view, featuring a male character as the protagonist, and making one of the main female characters an antagonist were all daring and brave. Her prose is starkly beautiful, describing the barren landscape and navigating the minefield of Ethan's mind with equal ease and latent beauty. The ending, though, is an absolute shocker. I was emotionally turbulent for a long while afterward; the denouement affected me in the way that no other book has save Nevil Shute's On The Beach. This is a great piece of art and one of the classic short works of American literature from one of the greatest female writers of all-time.erican literature from one of the greatest female writers of all-time.	2003-09-13
US	50002830	RFCKLXWVJQ88L	042507143X	267444893	Dolphin Island	Books	4	38	38	N	N	A solid adventure story	Dolphin Island is one of those solid, worthy Arthur C. Clarke books that has been out of print for many years and is now quite hard to find. This is a novel that Clarke wrote in the early 60's after spending a substantial amount of time around Australia's Great Barrier Reef. Clarke, as many are not aware, was, at least at one time, just as interested in diving and the sea as he was in space. Clearly fascinated by what he saw in his time around the reef, it inspired Clarke to write this novel, one of his very few targeted at young adults. As such, it lacks the poetic prose and philosophical and theological aspects that permeate Clarke's best novels. However, it is a very tight, well-written, and highly-enjoyable adventure romp. It is a very fast read, and you will be interested all the way through. Although it was intended as a book for young adults, Clarke being Clarke, this book is nevertheless packed full of interesting ideas and concepts. Clarke's speculations on dolphin intelligence and the many applications he dreams up for them are vivid and very believable. The descriptions of the Reef are also very poetic and sometimes beautifully rendered; however, as another reviewer pointed out, these sections tend to go on for too long and sometimes slow down the pace of the novel. Don't worry, though:  it's nothing close to what he made it out to be. This is a very short novel to begin with, and these sections comprise the majority of only 3 or 4 chapters. Those more interested in the Reef and underwater exploration in general may find these sections more satisfying than I did. At any rate, this is a solid, action-packed adventure story that is a worthy read for any Clarke fan and recommended reading for younger science fiction lovers.	2003-09-12
US	50002830	R33RPK2U5SBMM6	0451528921	521411351	Cyrano De Bergerac	Books	5	5	6	N	N	One of the greatest plays ever written	Edmond Rostand's masterpiece, Cyrano de Bergerac, is one of the greatest plays ever written. It is a mix of everything:  a tragedy, romance, comedy, and pseudo-history, all in one. Like all great playwrights, Rostand weaves highly witty remarks throughout his texts, many of them laugh-out-loud funny; Cyrano's famous lengthy monologue about how he could have been insulted better and Christian's &quot;nosy&quot; berating of Cyrano are classic moments. The play is also highly tragic:  the plot twists and turns, not playing out as one would expect, and it leaves one absolutely brimming over with emotion by play's end. Cyrano is one of the great tragic characters in all literature -- a sharp-witted, swashbuckling poet, and a big softy to boot. He is one of the most complex characters ever to appear in a play, his range of emotion and depth of complexity presenting a supreme challenge to the actor. The play is also a great romance, tragic as it is, and contains much magnificent poetry, including many romantic lines that rival the best of Keats and Yates. I referred to the play as a &quot;pseudo-history&quot; because it uses the real Cyrano de Bergerac as a basis for the play's title character, referring to real events in his life and extrapolating from there in the grand Dumas style. Those who disparage the play as unrealistic or idealistic are missing the point, not to mention the heart, of the play. This is an epic play in the grand French Romantic tradition; actions are deliberately fanciful, circumstances abound, and actions and situations are occasionally hyperbolic. This is all by design; therein lays the play's appeal. Rostand, in writing it, shows his complete mastery of the art. His ability to take Cyrano, who comes off as such as so pompously arrogant in the first act, and make him imminently lovable by the end of the play is a testament to his brilliance. The quasi-love triangle is also very effective; through it, Rostand is able to comment on the fleetingness and sometimes randomness of love without being too heavy-handed. The suspense is omnipresent, tragedy always looms just around the corner, but a laugh is never too far away. For those who love poetry or romance, this work is an absolute must. Emotions hit a fever pitch at several points in the play; it will reduce many to tears, as it almost did me. This is an absolute and essential masterpiece that remains a cherished classic in the annals of writing for the stage.and sometimes randomness of love without being too heavy-handed. The suspense is omnipresent, tragedy always looms just around the corner, but a laugh is never too far away. For those who love poetry or romance, this work is an absolute must. Emotions hit a fever pitch at several points in the play; it will reduce many to tears, as it almost did me. This is an absolute and essential masterpiece that remains a cherished classic in the annals of writing for the stage.	2003-09-11
US	50002830	R2E7BUJM2ZCX42	0375701095	833943531	The Uncollected Stories of William Faulkner	Books	4	15	16	N	N	Essential for the Faulkner completist	William Faulkner is one of the most celebrated and popular authors in all of American literature. With his widespread popularity, and stature within the literary world, a book such as this needs to be in print. The book basically picks up everything -- or nearly everything -- of Faulkner's that had not been published up to that point, including:  short stories that were later made into novels, short stories published in various fiction magazines that were never collected in a previous Faulkner anthology, and Faulkner stories that had never before been published anywhere. Some of the first group are nearly identical to the books of which they would eventually become a part -- The Unvanquished; The Hamlet; Go Down, Moses; Big Woods; and The Mansion -- but some are radically different. The alterations made to these stories offer a fascinating peek into Faulkner's writing process. They also offer a taste of some of Faulkner's novels, and, thus, work well as a sampler:  the reader can read these stories and see which of the novels he or she might like to subsequently pick up. The previously uncollected stories contain some real gems and are eminently worthy; also, only the most hard-core Faulkner reader will have read them before. The previously unpublished stories are not of a significantly lower quality, as one might expect; indeed, some of them are very good -- just as good, or better, as some of the published stories. In any case, they constitute a goldmine for the Faulkner reader. The same goes for the book as a whole:  though this certainly does not contain his best work, it contains much that is very good, and everything else is worthy -- perhaps some are even superlative. To be sure, some stories are of less worth than others, but they are all vintage Faulkner, and this is an essential volume for both Faulkner fans and scholars.	2003-09-10
US	50002830	R1ZU2AYXR5WMJZ	0679736646	201087508	Ubik	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Unbelievably weird, quite funny, and thought-provoking	I've been reading the works of Philip K. Dick for several years now, and have read most of his more well-known works, thought I still have a lot to go. I have read a lot of books from many different genres, including the classics and technical writings, and the books of Philip K. Dick are, in many ways, the most complex of them all. Ubik was not his most original or creative work, as the author himself admitted, but is a great blending of many of the elements that make up the PhiDickian universe. Here we find Dick toying with many of his favorite themes:  paranoia, isolation, alienation, paranormal phenomenon, and, of course, the slippery nature of reality. Ubik works on several levels, as do all of Dick's books; one is a quasi-detective story, which will interest the average reader with its suspense and intrigue, and another is as a dark metaphysical comedy. Much of the book is funny, in its way, wavering from black humor to near-slapstick. All the time, we are drawn further and further into the world of the book as weirdness piles upon weirdness and the mystery of the book thickens. Like all PKD, it is superbly and complexly plotted -- almost unimaginably so. His works never cease to amaze me. How did he come up with this stuff? It is almost incredible that he did -- and so easily and quickly at that. Dick spits out immensely imaginative subplots and asides that lesser authors could build an entire career on. His plots are the most complex I have ever encountered in literature, surpassing even the convuluted multiplexity of other science fiction works. Dick had a truly incredible imagination. That said, Ubik, as with all PKD, is very tightly written and extremely focused; though all of his books contain enough material for years of pondering, most all of them are around the 200 page range. Not a word is wasted. Aside from the ideas -- Dick peppers all of his books with philosophical asides, caustically witty remarks, and laugh-out-loud funny dialogues -- Dick is always worth reading for his superb writing and masterful technique. Ubik is quite a disorienting read at first:  it drops right into the middle of the story, and it will take the reader a little bit to come to grips with what is going on (as another reviewer pointed out, another author would've spend many pages setting this part of the story up.) As with the best PKD, just when it all starts to come together in one's mind, the book takes a completely different turn, and everything that one has thought up to that point is eradicated. And then it makes another twist, destroying again everything that had come before. And then another. And then, finally, the ending offsets everything that has come before and puts the entire book in a different light. Only Philip K. Dick could make this work. This is a rich, rewarding, and immensely engrossing work that is complex, funny, and highly entertaining. I finished it several days ago, and have been pondering it -- but I'm still not sure I understand the ending. Or the book at all. I almost always have this feeling after reading Dick. Is there something more? What did I miss? One always wants to read the book all over again. That is the true mark of a great author.	2003-09-02
US	50002830	RSZ3NNHI4K6ZX	0385333501	121956424	Welcome to the Monkey House: A Collection of Short Works	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A must for Vonnegut fans	Like most writers who got their start before or shortly after WWII, Kurt Vonnegut began his writing career as a short story writer. Consequently, this collection includes some of his very earliest work, as well as several truly classic short stories that rank among the best of the second half of the 20th century. As one would expect from a collection housing many stories from a writer in his infancy, the collection is not consistently stellar:  some pieces are unquestionably wonderful; others are of lesser quality, and at least one -- Where I Live -- is pointless. Vonnegut himself is quick to point out that this is not his best work:  in the introduction he states that the stories were written to finance the writing of his novels. Indeed, as with many beginning writers, they constituted his very livelihood; writing them was often a matter of necessity, and not always necessarily the calling of artistic craft. Don't expect the Vonnegut that you're familar with from the novels. Several of these stories hit a moral note, as Vonnegut inevitably does, while others are attempts to strike an emotional chord. Vonnegut, at his short-story-writing best, was a master of what some of the greatest practitioners of the art -- Edgar Allen Poe, among others -- have cited as the key element of any short story:  evoking one specific feeling, emotion, or tone. Vonnegut achieves this in many of the stories contained herein, and uses far less humor in doing so than we are accustomed to from him. Some of the best stories include the title story, which lays out a highly provocative and imaginative future scenario; Harrison Bergeron, a truly classic story that really strikes a moral chord; Tommorrow and Tomorrow and Tomorrow, a bleak, darkly funny satirical piece; All The King's Horses, a highly suspenseful and dramatic rendering; Unready To Wear, a thoughtful slice of science fiction; Report On The Barnhouse Effect, Vonnegut's first published story and a science fiction classic; and The Manned Missles, an emotional shocker. Many of these stories are science fiction, a genre under which a lot of Vonnegut's early work fell. Science fiction, at that time, was not even considered a real literary genre, and many literary elitists disparage Vonnegut for having mined it. The author himself has also distanced himself from the field in intervening years, due to the bad press it got him, which has caused a rift between Vonnegut and the science fiction community. Let it be said by me, then, a long-time reader of science fiction, that Vonnegut wrote very well in the genre, and that most of his best short stories were, indeed, SF. Though he never purveyed the so-called &quot;hard&quot; science fiction, full of complex technicalities, that made writers such as Arthur C. Clarke and Isaac Asimov famous, Vonnegut was continually full of great ideas that were well-suited the genre. I wish he had written more SF stories. Overall, quite a good collection of short fiction, certainly far superior to the more recent Bagombo Snuff Box -- do not avoid reading this book if you weren't a big fan of that one -- though it does not rank among the best of Vonnegut's work. I recommend it highly to fans of the author or enthusiasts of the short story art form.	2003-09-01
US	50002830	R5C6PWWC4SFX4	0380713810	957780736	Made in America: An Informal History of the English Language in the United States	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Amusing, entertaining, and highly educational	This wonderful book's title is something of a misnomer. It is as much a plain history of America -- albeit in very loose, mostly anecdotal form -- as it is a history of the English language in the country, though it does that very well. The word \\"informal\\" in the title is key. Though the book is, unquestionably, a scholarly work, and clearly was exahustively-researched, Bryson writes in a very loose, personal style, such as a scholar might share with you over a drink (if you've ever managed to corner an English or History professor in a non-classrooom setting and engage them in conversation, you know the feeling.) His writing style is very appealing, and it keeps the book going smoothly:  though absolutely bursting with information and endless factoids, the book is a very quick read, thanks to Bryson's personable writing style. Bryson begins his story with the landing of the Mayflower, and then proceeds to give a pre-history of America, and winds his way all the way up to the very latter part of the 20th century. He examines the English that was spoken by the early colonists, and how it has since evolved. The book is then split into chapters that deal with various aspects of American life -- shopping, war, sex, travel, etc. -- and how they have altered and added to our language. In every such chapter, Bryson details how the words that we use in relation to them came about, where they come from, when they were first used, and much, much more. Along the way, he discourses on such perenially-interesting topics as swear words, slang, cultural taboos (the chapter on sex is particularly enlightening), and he even takes a -- quite thoughtful -- swipe at the PC debate.  Many of these facts are, to say the least, quite surprising. Trust me, however much you know about the subject of American English going on, you will know a lot more after reading the book (I, for one, had no idea that there was such a wide difference between American and British English.) That said, the book is almost as much a history book as it is an etymology book. Quite thoughtfully, Bryson not only gives us information on the origins of words, but also relays to us the social contexts in which they emerged -- a background without which much of the etymological information would be rendered meaningless. In a stark contrast to the standard high school textbook interpretation of history, Bryson gives us a highly anecdotal fly-by-the-seat-of-the-pants history of the United States; buckle up, friends, it's one wild ride. These stories are almost consistently interesting, frequently witty, very often funny, invariably surprising, and sometimes quick simply shocking. They are the kind of stories that will make you want to stop in the middle of your reading, find the nearest person to you, and shout out breathlessly, \\"Did you know...?!\\" Along the way, Bryson manages to debunk many of the most-cherished American stories -- I won't spoil any of them for you here, but rest assured that you will be quite shocked -- while confirming others, and creating some anew. As one commentor on the book succinctly said, If there is a more popular American pasttime than creating myths, it is trying to debunk them. Bryson, an American living in the U.K. at the time this book was written, seems generally proud to be an American, affirming the greatness of many of its folk heroes while holding the bright flame of truth up to some of its longest-standing fables, all in the admirable spirit of fierce, if tempered, patriotism. Due to this dichotomy, some sections of the book get very weighed down in almost list-like paragraphs detailing the origins of words, while some chapters, conversely, consist almost entirely of anecdotal histories with hardly any etymological content at all. All in all, it makes for very fun, interesting reading that goes by quickly and smootly; you'll learn a lot while reading it, and you'll enjoy yourself while doing it. This great book, which is much, much more than the title suggests, is a great read for anyone interested in the subjects it deals with, and an absolute must for scholars of American English and American History. Such is the enjoyment inherent in its nature, that I even recommend it to the general reader.	2003-08-27
US	50002830	ROVDMFOWWMYWO	0679734511	640559300	Demons: A Novel in Three Parts (Vintage Classics)	Books	5	22	27	N	N	A re-affirmation of life	Fyodor Dostoyevesky, perhaps the greatest novelist of all-time, has a canon of mostly very long books that delve deeply into the darker psychological corners of man's mind. He shed long-dormant light on such subjects as the conscience, madness, the existence of God, family and criminal psychology, and a great many other things besides. In Demons, he explored yet another dark corner of the human mind:  the tendency of people, particularly young people, towards nihilism. We have seen in our own times -- in the 1960's, certainly, and, perhaps, we are beginning to see it again now -- the tendency of youth to rebel against everything that the previous generation and the current powers that be stood and stand for, to tear everything down, to start anew. And yet, for all the promise of the 60's ideaology, where has it gotten us? How much change has actually taken place? Are we really any better off than before? Why did the movement fizzle out, and so quickly? Nothing is sadder, for the young modern liberal, than the sight of an old hippie, once idealistic and hungry, now shriveled up, in a depressed state, living off of social security. In Demons, Dostoyevsky explains why this happens. <br />In it, he shows the inherent hollowness of the nihilistic viewpoint, that it always leads to the same place in the end. As Don Henley once sang, &quot;It's another hollow rebellion/As rebellions often are/Just another raging tempest/In a jar.&quot; For all its idealism and visions of utopia, it always ends up the same way in the end. What is practitioners often don't seem to realize is that it denies life itself. How can any movement, however pious and idealistic, suceed, if it does this? Many people have observed how the ideas embedded in Dostoyevsky's novels foresaw the philosophy of Nietzsche -- and yet, for all of the darkness and social criticism that sprang from the two men, what many people often overlook is the fact that both of them, in essence, AFFIRM LIFE (for proof of this,one need only to look at the fate of the characters in the book who deny life:  even those, like Shatov, who do it once and then repent are, in the end, doomed.) To both Dostoyevsky and Nietzsche, it is not only wrong to live one's life merely for the sake of a higher power or for hope of a reward in some afterlife, but it is also wrong to live one's life for an &quot;ism&quot; -- whether it be atheism, idealism, anarchism, nihilism, or whatnot. Granted, both men themselves subscribed to such things; Dostoyevsky, himself a revolutionary who was served 10 years in jail, some at hard labor, and was nearly executed, saw Demons as  &quot;novel pamphlet&quot;, his own attempt to speak out at the wave of materialism that had, at the time, infested Russia, and to break out of his habit of dealing in negative modes of thinking. To paraphrase Dostoyevsky's famous letter, modern nihilists do not deny the existence of God:  that is over and done with:  no one cares about it, anymore. What they do, instead, is deny, with all their might, God's creation, God's world, and everything in it. <br />Pity the poor revolutionary who attempts to incite a rebellion while denying, at the same time, the very means he must use to do so. Neil Peart once wrote &quot;Changes aren't permanent/But change is.&quot; Indeed, change is a good thing:  anything which does not change will, inevitably, become stagnant. However, whatever changes we may hope to bring about, we must always remember to affirm life. Thank God we have the works of Dostoyevsky left to remind us.<br />This brilliant novel explores other subjects as well:  the responsiblity of one generation for the next generation, the responsiblity of teachers for their students, and, above all, the responsiblity of philosophers for their ideas. A must-read novel essential for any reader of classics or Russian literature.	2003-08-14
US	50002830	R2DNI7BF243ZBR	0312871996	85474640	The Light of Other Days	Books	5	2	4	N	N	An excellent novel	I was surprised by the greatness of this frequently-overlooked book. I have long been a fan of Sir Arthur C. Clarke, having read nearly everything in his vast canon, beginning in my freshman year in high school. It was his writing that ignited my long-time passion for science fiction. With this in mind, I had long stayed away from the various \\"Arthur C. Clarke and...\\" books, scared off by the many negative reviews and not wanting to tarnish my opinion of a legend and one of my favorite authors. Indeed, this very book was sitting on my bookshelf, unread, for over a year before I recently finally decided to tackle it, owing to a lack of other materials to read.<br />I am ashamed that I waited so long. This is a truly excellent book. As the authors themselves readily admit in the Afterward, the concept of a time viewer is not a novel one in science fiction, though it is one that has not been overdone, as have many other SF scenarios and plot devices. This brilliant novel uses the concept of a time viewer -- a device which, as originally designed, could merely see through walls -- to comment upon many different things:  corporate ethics, organized religion (a subject that has long been anathema, if you will pardon the pun, to Clarke's agile mind), privacy, government and the citizen's role in it, the moral responsibility of scientists, many aspects of history, and much more. The discovery of such a device, as anyone can see, would drastically alter the course of human society forevermore -- whether for good or for ill, no one, as yet, can say. I, personally, find the Clarke/Baxter vision to be somewhat too optimistic -- but, who knows, it may be closer to the truth than my more cynical outlook. Clarke, as anyone who has read him knows, has always been optimistic about technology's ability to inspire, unite, and help mankind, in stark contrast to seeming Luddites such as Huxley and Vonnegut; anyone who has read his early essays on communications, a field in whose moderncreation he played no small part, can hardly help but to agree with him, despite what has happened since. One gets the feeling that Clarke, one of the ablest minds of our times and one of the greatest stars of post-WWII literature, who tesifies that he is still an optimist because he still believes that Man has a 51% chance of survival -- \\"some days it gets a high as 51%, some days as low as 50.5%, but never below 50%\\" -- is too good for this world. Hopefully, the afterlife, something which Clarke may or may not believe in, will be, for him, on a much better planet that is more deserving of him. Alas...<br />The authors use the concept of the time viewer to comment -- speculatively, of course, but very thoughtfully -- on various historical events and persons, ranging from Abraham Lincoln sexuality to Albert Einstein's dying words* to the Crusades to Moses to Jesus Christ Himself. The chapter on the latter figure is one of the book's more interesting:  it makes for very good reading, and is highly compelling, thoughtful, and, above all, respectful. Like many atheists and agnostics, Clarke retains a very high degree of respect for the historical Jesus. The book's characters come across as genuinely human and quite believable:  I actually felt empathy for them. One gets the feeling that this is more the work of Baxter than Clarke, as the latter has often been accused of writing flat, wooden characters. That said, some of the human aspects of the plot are a bit too soap opera-y, especially for science fiction -- again, probably the work of Baxter -- though it never degenerates to the level that Clarke's collaborations with Gentry Lee sometimes did. Regardless of who did the majority of the writing -- I read an article saying that it was written mostly by Baxter, using Clarke's 8-page outline as a starting point, with them throwing ideas back and forth all throughout the entire process, with Clarke, by virtue of his expertise and connections, doing some research on the side -- the writing is quite good throughout. The prose is often highly poetic and beautiful, much in the style of Clarke's best work, particularly the last chapter and the epilogue. It uses many literary touchstones made famous by such writers as Philip K. Dick, Kurt Vonnegut, and, of course, Clarke himself. The ending is absolutely mind-blowing:  completely unexpected, it is immensely interesting and thought-provoking, and sets the entire novel in a heretofore unexpected light. It is a grand, epic ending in the traditon of Clarke's Childhood's End, which is referenced in the Afterward as a previous exploration of the time viewer, along with Clarke's short story The Parasite, which, he has said elsewhere, served as the basis for this novel. <br />Overall, an immensely rewarding book that I recommend to anyone who is a fan of Mr. Clarke -- and who isn't? Do not be discouraged by the negative reviews you may have seen of this book or of his other collaborations; once again, I repeat, IF YOU LIKE ARTHUR C. CLARKE, YOU OWE IT TO YOURSELF TO READ THIS BOOK. I had not previously read anything by Baxter, but that situation will soon be rectified. A modern hard SF giant, The Light of Other Days is a crowning achievement of contemporary science fiction.<br />*=If anyone can translate the word that the dying Einstein utters in this novel, please e-mail it to me,... Thank you.	2003-08-10
US	50002830	R3ELR4SCWGZ39O	0553212788	604725626	The Prince (Bantam Classics)	Books	3	9	11	N	N	Ever wonder why politicians are merciless dogs?	Of course you have. Well, here's the answer. Machiavelli's classic text on acquiring and maintaining political power laid the foundation for modern politics, for better or for worse, and remains its bedrock. Machiavelli was an Italian patriot and a long-time member of the Italian hierarchy as a sort of political consultant, having been recently ejected from his position when he wrote this manual. Italy was then in a turbulent political situation, seemingly under attack from all quarters, and very unstable. The author wrote this treatise and sent it to Lorenzo Medici -- the Prince, as it were, who was ultimately responsible for Machiavelli's dispension. Such a loyal patriot was our good author that he actually wrote this book and sent it to him as a gift.<br />Well, what does it contain? Just about everything that anyone would want to know about how to acquire political power, and how to keep it. Machiavelli covers just about every conceivable situation:  how to rule a brand new land colonly, or one that has been taken over; how a Prince should bear him or herself; how they should keep faith; how to maintain their army; how to keep tabs on the commoners and the nobles, and much more. He includes many maxims and principles that have been taken up time and time again in the nearly 500 years since the publication of this slim volume. One need only look at the current political landscape to see just how inudated these principles have become in the political philosophies of our world leaders, e.g., Machiavelli's idea that it is better to go to war on your enemy's turf before they come to your own, in order to minimize losses, and his famous statement that it is better to be feared than to be loved -- but try your best not to be hated. Many have condemned the ideas and principles contained herein because they eschew moral and ethical standards in deference to pragmatic political gain. Well, wake up, folks. Politics is a dirty game and always has been. It is viscious, ruthless, and takes no prisoners -- a truly dog-eat-dog world. It is not for the faint of heart. Machiavelli tried to tell us this 500 years ago; it's about damn time we started listening.<br />The writing style used in the book is very, very simple, and it is extremely short. Machiavellis states his points, offers then-contemporay and also classical examples to justify his various points -- and then stops. I agree with what another reviewer said that, if this book was written today, especially by an academic, it would be much, much longer. Machiavellis states clearly what he wants to state, and spends no time on anything else:  not a word in the text is wasted. So, who would read this book? Well, if you are looking to enter the field of politics, or to assume a leadership position in general, then you probably already have. If not, you are probably wondering why you are failing. It is also an essential read for anyone in the fields of political science or Rennaisance literature. It is, also, a classic text, a long-surviving piece of Italian Rennaisance literature, and an easy, short, and worthwhile read for the general classical reader.	2003-08-06
US	50002830	R1ES94S0M2D20J	0380789655	355752949	Death Is a Lonely Business	Books	4	24	25	N	N	A great new twist for Bradbury	Ray Bradbury, as his fans know, is a man who has published a lot of works through the years -- over 500 -- but only a handful of novels. Most of his novels, in fact, are expanded versions of his short stories, e.g., Fahrenheit 451. Death Is A Lonely Business, a very good title from a man who is a master of titles, published in 1985, was his first novel since 1962's Something Wicked This Way Comes. What a surprise, then, it was for me to find this overlooked gem at my local library for a mere 50 cents. It is something one would not expect Bradbury to write:  a detective story. Of sorts. This genre, previously monopolized in the science fiction realm by Isaac Asimov (as was everything else), turns out to fit Bradbury's writing style surprisingly well. As anyone who has read the author knows, he has a unique and very distinctive style -- poetic, atmospheric, and highly literary. Arthur C. Clarke has termed him a &quot;prose poet&quot;, and this description works quite well. His aforementioned style, which is very complex and literary, would seem, on the surface, ill-suited to a hard-boiled detective novel and destined to be relegated to the short story -- as, indeed, much of Bradbury's work is. His writing style and use of imagery is very dense and literate, too much for some, and is often difficult to hold up over the course of a novel. This novel, like much of his work, contains very vivid poetic descriptions and not a few fantasy elements, and the reader is often left unsure whether a given sentence is meant to be taken literally or only figuratively. This was a problem for many readers with Something Wicked This Way Comes, a novel that had a very simple plot -- one might almost say, with its two child protagonists, that it was written for teenagers -- but this issue, thankfully, does not come up during the course of this interesting and very engrossing novel. Though this is, essentially, a detective story, it does not escape Bradbury's distinctive touches. His style is omnipresent throughout. It proves to be very engrossing. The first chapter -- the book's sections are not technically separated as such, but the definition will work fine -- pulls the reader in, and it is very difficult to put it down:  I read the book nearly in one sitting. Bradbury pours on the suspense and the keeps the reader reading. His poetic descriptions of Venice, California's broken-down piers and carnival scenery are vivid and very atmospheric; the descriptions are beautiful prose to read, mysterious and alluring, dark and brooding. Any long-time Bradbury reader will immediately appreciate this aspect of the novel. The book is also loaded with literary references, to Brabdury's own work and to a vast number of other authors. This is a treat for the author's faithful readers and shows the author's encyclopedic knowledge of literature. In addition, the novels main character, by whom it is narrarated, is a highly autobiographical character clearly modeled on Bradbury's own early career. All of this is very good, certainly enough to recommend the novel. The only reason I have given it 4 stars is the ending, which is a very jarring anti-climax. The final revealing of the murderer is not a surprise, and the way in which he is caught is very unrealistic and hard to believe. This will probably frustrate the reader, as it did me, putting an ill-conceived end to an otherwise excellent novel. Stil, the book is well-worth reading, as Bradbury usually is, and this flaw only dims one's enjoyment of it somewhat. Highly recommended for Bradbury fans, or those who enjoy the noir mystery genre and are looking for something with more of a twist than they usually get.	2003-08-06
US	50002830	R2R9V3MKG7M564	0451527925	432838089	Paradise Lost and Paradise Regained (The Signet Classic Poetry Series)	Books	5	35	42	N	N	An immense poetic achievement	Add this reviewer to the list of people who hold Paradise Lost up to the lofty title of The Greatest Epic Poem in the English Language; it is not only this, but one of the best in any language. Writing unabashedly in the tradition of unrhymed Homeric epic verse, Mitlon was working well within what was earlier purveyed by Homer, Virgil, and Dante -- but he brings his own distinctive touch and flair to the work. The opening lines of the long poem are clearly inspired by Homer, as are other elements, but Milton has a very unique poetic style; long sentences, often with the principle verb at the end, being one of its mainstays. This language is very grandiose and quite complex; it takes a while to get used to it -- you will have to pay very close attention during the first book -- but, as with most classical literature, once the reader gets the hang of it, it goes quite smoothly. The Divine Comedy of Dante has a more towring reputation than does Milton's Paradise Lost -- for one thing, it is older -- but I among those who find Milton to be superior. The Divine Comedy is, certainly, an undisputed masterpiece, but, where it was, more or less, a satire and a thinly-veiled attack on many of Dante's political enemies, Milton's work deals with much more complex and profound subject matter:  why mankind fell, how the gods themselves operate and think, the nature and attractiveness of evil and sin, the importance of love in human relationships, the moral problems of God's justice. It is true that Dante's work is more original; Paradise Lost and Paradise Regained, at least in seed, come straight from The Bible. But Milton only uses these stories as a springboard for the exploration of the latent moral and ethical problems lurking beneath. Milton explores these problems with a refreshingly fresh perspective -- strictly within the Christian tradition, to be sure, but far from fundamentalist, and even quite radical for its day. Although some cite the work as Christian apologist, there are certainly many elements within the poem that many of the more hard-line Christians would be taken aback by; it was, of course, even more controversial in its day. One thing about the work that often gets pointed out is that Satan is a far more interesting and appealing character than God. This, in my view, does not have Milton unwittingly on the Devil's side, as some critics have suggested. Rather, he is pointing out how appealing sin is always is:  of course it's interesting, of course it's appealing -- otherwise, we wouldn't keep falling for it again and again and again. If we saw its razor-sharp fangs and [dripping] mouth, we would have stopped getting ensnared in its trap long ago. However, as a non-Christian myself, I cannot but disagree with some points of Milton's theodicy; the last two books, in particular, and Paradise Regained as a whole, were, for me, quite hard to swallow. I found the more human elements of the poem to be its most intriguing. Milton paints Adam and Eve as quintissentially human characters who possess many of the same feelings that we all share:  joy, happiness, fear, sadness, depression, and, most of all, the overriding paramount importance of love. The act of Adam, who was not himself [evil], eating of the apple so that he could follow Eve, no matter what doom was to befall her and them, out of love for her, is still one of the most touching moments in all of literature -- as Mark Twain, in the voice of Adam, later said, \\"Wheresoever Eve was there, THERE was Eden.\\" God, Satan, and the various angels are also endowed with human characteristics; most Christians today seem to have forgotten that God created Man \\"in His own image\\", and that He is not a perfect creature. Likewise, Satan is not entirely evil -- certainly he is ambitious and narcissistic, but so are many humans -- indeed, many have seen him as the hero of the poem (an errorenous view, as I see it.) God often comes off as extremely cold and hardly forgiving or merciful;indeed, to many readers, myself included, this poem doesn't come anywhere near its stated goal of justifying the ways of Gods to men, but only reinforces the views we already had (Mark Twain, whom I have previously mentioned, has a very different view of the situation, closer to my own perspective, that is worth seeking out.) Whatever one's objections to the theology and theodicy expressed within the poem, the poem remains a great work of literature -- poetic, grandiose, profound, extremely readable, and thought-provoking. The shorter sequel, Paradise Regained, is also included in this edition. This work, in my view, comes nowhere near the glory of it's predecessor, but it is still a good read and it is very handy to have it included in this volume as well. For that reason, I highly reccommend picking up this particular edition of the works; also because the introduction, written by Dr. Susanne Woods, is very good, and it has notes provided by the wonderful Christoper Ricks, who also edited the poem for this version. Unlike many editors, he does not include so many notes that they become cumbersome and distract from the text:  they are genuinely helpful and there are not too many of them. This is an absolute classic not only of English literature, but of world literature, and a monument in the tradition of epic poetry that you owe it to yourself to read.	2003-08-04
US	50002830	R2JFHJIMZ9IC6F	0878053581	60945894	Conversations with Kurt Vonnegut (Literary Conversations Series)	Books	5	16	16	N	N	5 Stars for Vonnegut fans	As one writer on Amazon pointed out, ever since Kurt Vonnegut stopped writing novels in 1997 (or 1991, depending on whom you ask), there has been a huge hole in the literary world that can never be filled. Anyone who has ever experienced the brilliance of Vonnegut for the first time wants to immediately embark upon consuming the rest of his quite large canon. None of his books are long, and one can go through the entirety of them in a fairly short time (though they could also spend a lifetime exploring the ideas contained therein.) No doubt, anyone who has done so is joyfully grateful at having had the opportunity to enrich their lives with the humor and wisdom of Vonnegut -- but also can't help but envy the reader who is coming to the master for the first time. If you have read everything that the author ever wrote, or just about, and are looking for something to quench your appetite for Vonnegut, Conversations With Kurt Vonnegut is probably the best place to start. Authors, in general, tend to be rather reclusive and not very public figures; consequently, they often give few interviews. Vonnegut, thankfully, has not followed this trend and has given many interviews, though they started to come much less frequently after 1980. This is a great treat for both fans and scholars of the author. As an interviewee, Vonnegut is just as witty and wise, and nearly as funny, as he is in his writings. True to himself, he, as always, pulls no punches and calls things as he sees them, no matter whom it may offend (my favorite moment in the book is when he explains why Schindler's List is \\"sugar-coated.\\") It is great fun to read his interviews -- very entertaining, and a real learning experience, as well. All of the major interviews that Vonnegut has given throughout his career are included here, as well as a representative sampling of shorter pieces. Most of these will be unfamilar, and, therefore, a real treat, to even the biggest Vonnegut fan, with the exception of the monumental Playboy interview which appeared in Wampeters, Foma, and Granfalloons; this is a classic Vonnegut interview, however, and you will be rewarded by reading it again. The interviews are arranged in chronological order, ranging from 1969 through 1999, if you have the new edition, 1987 if you do not. Some of the best pieces included the aforementioned Playboy interview, Robert Scholes's 1974 interview, and the 1987 and 1999 interviews conducted with Vonnegut by the editor William Rodney Allen and Paul Smith, which focus on Vonnegut's more recent work. Another interesting piece is the 1974 Greg Mitchell feature written from the point of view of Kilgore Trout, Vonnegut's hapless protagonist, which re-enacts many of the scenes from Vonnegut's novels and incorporates real quotes from the author. Thankfully, Vonnegut has not been subjected to as many dumb and thoughtless interviewers as many have -- perhaps that's why he gave so many -- although, in reading through this book, one will probably become tired of hearing certain questions over and over again, e.g., \\"Are you a black humorist?\\" Most of these interviews, though, are great, several of them, particulary the Scholes and Allen/Smith interviews, take a role more akin to a real conversation than a mere interview. These are a joy to read. Vonnegut's most famous books, Cat's Cradle and, especially, Slaughterhouse-Five are covered extensively, as are such issues as his oft-forgotten play (Happy Birthday, Wanda June), his (first) insistence of never wanting to write again (in 1969!), and, a special treat for Vonnegut fans, his views on other authors and works of literature, namely Mark Twain and Joseph Heller, among others. These interviews show a different side of Vonnegut the man, and also give fascinating glimpses into his private life, including such details as his homes, everyday life, and family. An absolute must-read for Vonnegut fans!	2003-07-31
US	50002830	R11ET1F2P8HNUX	0140275363	488928067	The Iliad	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Belongs on your bookshelf	The Robert Fagles translation of the Greatest War Story of All-Time is a masterful achievement. To comment on the Iliad itself is superfluous; it is a classic of world literature, one of the oldest stories extant, and the true beginning of Western literature itself. It is it not only a must-read for everyone as part of basic cultural education, but also a very exciting and entertaining tale that reveals a lot about human nature. The task is to decide which of the many translations to use. I nominate this one. This truly epic poem, which, as the Introduction speculates, may have been composed in its final form with the aid of writing, was, originally, a long, poetic story spoken aloud. Fagles has done the seemingly impossible:  given us an Iliad that we can read aloud, full of all the grandeur and epic, majestic sweep that the original must have contained -- and also a version that reads very well on the page, its sweeping prose and forward-pushing narrative helping to keep one forever reading and making the poem exciting and invigorating. For those who have never read The Iliad , this is, without a doubt, the translation to get; its form, in modern verse, is extremely easy to read. You'll get the story loud and clear, without missing the grandeur and majestic poetry. For the scholar, or those who have read prior translations, it is worthwhile reading as well; it shows very clearly the pure colossal power of the STORY, being less poetically cluttered than the Pope and Lattimore translations, and easier reading than Fitzgerald's. The edition is great as well, generously lavishing us with extras galore. Included is an extremely nice, sixty-plus page introduction by Bernard Knox that provides all necessary background, rounds up the facts and succinctly summarizes speculations regarding Homer and the work's composition, and offers great analyses of various different story aspects. Also included are very helpful materials such as maps and a very thorough pronouncing dictionary complete with definitions. It is all topped off with a very-well-done book that feels good in your hands. An absolute must-read for all.onary complete with definitions. It is all topped off with a very-well-done book that feels good in your hands. An absolute must-read for all.	2003-07-28
US	50002830	R1E7C8PHZS2GTY	0553213695	377046405	The Metamorphosis (Bantam Classics)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	4 and 1/2 Stars	Franz Kafka's The Metamorphosis is one of the greatest works of short fiction ever written, and one of the 20th century's major literary works. The key to its fame and last greatness is its deeper mystery, i.e., its multi-dimensionality. It is a short, quick read that a good reader can probably finish in an hour or two:  I read it intermittently, while waiting at doctor's offices, barber shops, and the like. However, the great thing about the story is that, though it is short and sweet, one can delve much deeper than its surface meaning -- though, as Oscar Wilde said, one does so at one's peril. Many of the events in the story that might be expanded upon in a longer, novel-length work -- why and how the metamorphosis happened, etc. -- are not even touched upon in this work. Furthermore, unlike many writers who shove the moral of their story down the reader's throat, Kafka, perhaps seeing in advance the notion that \\"writers with a message should use Western Union\\", leaves everything open to individual interpretation. This mysterious, ambiguous quality of the work is the key to its greatness and is the reason behind its longevity. One senses that the work has a deep, profound meaning and moral behind it, but it is written, as most great works are, in such a way as to leave it open to differing interpretations and analyses. The story can be viewed in many different ways:  as an allegory, a masterpiece of symbolism, a messiah story, a parody of traditional Jewish folklore, a depressing, or a quasi-autobiographical tale, among others; Freudians can also have a field day with the text. For proof of the story's adaptability and elasticity, one has only to read through the various critical essays that follow the text (the book, in addition to the original text, is also lavished with useful materials such as an introduction, extensive notes, and a multitude of essays). Some of these essays are quite ridicilous and far-fetched; others are very well-thought-out and extremely interesting, giving one new insight into the work. If you have not yet read this masterpiece of world literature, then you owe it to yourself to do so; this is the edition to get.nteresting, giving one new insight into the work. If you have not yet read this masterpiece of world literature, then you owe it to yourself to do so; this is the edition to get.	2003-07-19
US	50002830	R18W3DA5VY3G0N	0825671566	418924797	Bob Dylan: A Life in Stolen Moments Day by Day: 1941-1995 (The Companion Series)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	For obsessive fans only	This book's contents are so exhaustive, containing such a wealth of information, much of it rather insignificant in itself, that only the most obsessive of Dylan fans would ever buy it, much less slog through its voluminous contents. Needless to say, I bought it and did so. If you are truly interested in Bob Dylan, in a scholarly and historical sense, not just as a fan of his music, then you will serve yourself well by getting this book. If you are not, however... well, let's put this book into perspective:<br />What this book purports to be is a chronicle of Bob Dylan's life -- not an autobiography, but, rather, a listing of each day of his life, from the day of his birth up until the year this book was published (1997); as short pre-history is included, as well. Now, as you probably assumed, the book is not exactly this:  Dylan is, and always has been, a mysterious, aloof, and reclusive character, despite his great fame. Consequently, long stretches, often encompassing months at a time, are missing from this chronicle. Still, what is here is amazing. Documented herein is a record of every recording session, rehearsal, and tour that Dylan had done up to this point. Heylin tells you what songs were played, how many times, what the arrangements were, if there were any changes from their original incarnation, what musicians played on them, etc. Also documented are most of Dylan's interviews -- where, with whom, and about what. These kinds of details form the vast majority of the book; needless to say, the more personal aspects of Dylan's life are as unknown to Heylin as they are to the rest of us, and probably always will be. Examples of the other kinds of information that he manages to include are such things as Dylan's travels, public appearances and events, and the like. <br />As one can see, this is not a book for the casual Bob Dylan fan. If you are looking for a biography, stay far, far away from this; Heylin's own Behind The Shades is a good place to start forthat type of tome. On the other hand, if you are a Bob Dylan fan who is truly interested not only in the man's music and life, but in the historical and scholarly aspects of his work, then this is a book that you will want to eventually pick up. Due to its lack of brevity in information and the level of obsessiveness in its detail, however, this is still a book that you will want to pick up later, after your collection already includes numerous other Dylan books -- biographies, lyrical analyses, etc. -- before you take on this daunting volume.	2003-07-18
US	50002830	RY187870KY1RN	0030352452	78359452	The Challenge of the Sea	Books	3	2	2	N	N	3 and 1/2 Stars	The Challenge of The Sea is a long-forgotten and, indeed, criminally-overlooked book in Arthur C. Clarke's vast repetoire. Of course, this may surprise many, as the first thing that one generally thinks of when hearing the name &quot;Arthur C. Clarke&quot; are visions of space and black monoliths. Those familar with Clarke's life, though, know that he harbors, if you will pardon the pun, a long-time fascination for the seas of earth as well as his well-known love for the depths and mystery of space. An enthusiastic skin diver, Clarke went on several diving expeditions and even helped excavate a genuine sunken treasure ship (see his &quot;The Treasure of The Great Reef.&quot;) Though such writings declined after the coming of the 1970's, the early part of Clarke's career featured numerous articles as well as a handful of books, both fact and fiction, focusing on the sea. The Challenge of The Sea belongs to the non-fiction category, and is perhaps the best of the bunch. As always with Clarke's books of this type, it is an encyclopedic, comprehensive look at the entire subject:  its history, accomplishments, inherent challenges, as well as prospects and projections for the future -- think along the lines of some of his more well-known space books of the same sort, i.e., The Promise of Space and The Challenge of the Spaceship. With Clarke, you know that you're never in store for a dry, boring read of the subject at hand, no matter what the subject may be:  this book is in his usual well-written, highly poetic, more-than-occasionally funny, immensely readable and ever-interesting style. I found several of these articles to be particularly interesting, as the sea is a subject with which I am not overly familar with. The beauty of the book, though, is that Clarke shows what a fundamentally interesting (and almost wholly unknown) place the sea inherently is. By the time you are finished with this book, you, too, will find it an interesting and fascinating place, regardlessof your prior views on the subject -- if you happened to have any at all. One problem with much of Clarke's non-fiction work is that it often suffers from a general sameness, and the same articles appear numerous times in various different books. As a long-time Clarke reader who has read upwards of 50 of the author's books, I was refreshingly surprised to not come across a single article in this delightful little book that I had previously read. Another good thing about it is that, unlike some of Clarke's more popular non-fiction works on space, the passage of time has dated it very little. Despite the fact that it was published in 1960, it is practically as applicable and fresh now as it was then. Consequently, this book is a worthy read for even the Clarke fan who has read almost everything the author has to offer. It is also one of his better and most oft-overlooked works of the kind, and deserves to be read by fanatics and more casual fans alike.	2003-05-10
US	50002830	R2Z38AHNKNJYV0	0345314417	15444368	The View from Serendip	Books	3	3	3	N	N	For Clarke completists only	Everyone knows Arthur C. Clarke as one of the best -- many would say THE best -- science fiction writer of all-time, but it is often forgotten nowadays that, at least up until the 1970's, Clarke was also one of the best and most prolific popularizers of science. Early in his career, before he ever really got into writing fiction per se, and certainly before he started writing novels, the majority of Clarke's output consisted of technical science pieces and popular science journalism. This collection of such pieces, which appeared in the last 70's, was one of his last of the kind before he began concentrating solely on novel writing and before he retired -- and came back -- and retired again... and so on (anyone who is a writer knows that a writer can never &quot;retire&quot;.) The pieces themselves consist mostly of space articles (mainly projections of future society), a few articles about Clarke's home, Sri Lanka (once called Serendip, hence the title), a handful of speeches, autobiographical fragments, exactly one piece of fiction, and a smattering of various other types of articles. As the lifeblood of the book is a series of essays giving future projections for years that have now passed us by, it is easy to dismiss this book as dated, as most have; and, indeed, it will probably never again be in general circulation. However, there is a certain fascination about these articles when looked back upon with hindsight. It is always interesting to see where Clarke was dead-on (describing the internet in almost exact detail nearly 40 years ago, for instance), and where he was wholly off-target (predicting stellar conolization by the end of the 20th century). Few futurists have been as compelling -- and frequently accurate -- as Clarke, and these pieces always make for interesting reading. The two articles on Sri Lanka are very informative and make for great reading, infused with the love and admiration that Clarke obviously has for his home. These pieces, and some ofthe others, are of a very personal nature, which is quite unusual for the guarded and normally abstract Clarke -- quite a treat for long-time fans of the author who will probably never get an autobiography. His light piece about the perils of hiring domestic servants in the East is one of the most hilarous things I have ever read, reminding us once again that Clarke has a killer, if bone-dry, sense of humor that few other than his hard-core fans ever ackwnoledge. His classic diss &quot;Introducing Isaac Asimov&quot; is included here in full, as is the good Doctor's schintillating comeback. The one piece of fiction is a minor throwaway, and the remainder of the essays and speeches range from very good to moderate. The reason the book is not a superlative collection is because several of the essays are somewhat similar and, as always with a Clarke omnibus, many of them have been printed elsewhere. If you are a Clarke nut, you have probably already some, if not much of what is included here; if you are not, you will probably not even be interested. If you are that hard-core ACC reader, then it will be worth you while to track this long-out-of-print book down in order to read the pieces in it that are not available elsewhere. If you are a casual fan of his non-fiction writing, or a fan of his fiction and looking to get acquainted with the other side of Clarke, I highly reccommend the recent giant collection, &quot;Greetings, Carbon-Based Bipeds!&quot; which collects the majority of Clarke's major essays into one large collection.	2003-05-08
US	50002830	R1SCLMMGUSPKOO	0771099541	931588808	The Favourite Game (New Canadian Library)	Books	4	10	10	N	N	A good introduction to Cohen's written work	This is a book that few people other than Leonard Cohen would ever dare to write -- or even be able to imagine; especially in the early 60's -- but which, for him, is a fairly straight-forward work. Much more literal and novelistic than Beautiful Losers, Cohen's second novel, and far less obscure than most of his poetry, The Favorite Game is the ideal entry point into Cohen's writing. Cohen write very provocative, very beautiful, highly lyrical poetic prose that is not for everyone. Some will be turned off by the frequent use of allusion and metaphor and the not-always-linear narrative structure; however, for those who like literate, poetic writing, Cohen is a goldmine. Whereas Beautiful Losers and much of his later poetry is very abstract, The Favorite Game is a novel in a traditional and familar form -- the coming-of-age of a young man -- but done in a highly unique and endearing fashion. The language used in the novel is strikingly beautiful, and uniquely Cohen. His writing is of a style that I can only describe as the mastery of Joyce crossed with the eroticism of Miller. He is very frank and candid about sexual matters; but, unlike those two authors, he writes about it in such a way that it is erotic as well as artful and beautiful. The book is also very funny in the uniquely Cohen way -- drier than a bone. Like most of Cohen's works, this is highly autobiographical, and most of us -- certainly those who have experienced either side of love -- will be able to identify with much of it. One might even call it the Canadian Catcher In The Rye, although its literacy and pretentions to high artfulness render it less transcendent than that American masterpiece. Still, for all Cohen fans, this is an absolute must; for readers unfamilar with or curious about the author, it is the ideal place to start.	2003-05-03
US	50002830	R1WEVTFLKFOSF1	0345354648	396853864	Five Patients	Books	3	17	20	N	N	Don't expect ER	You will probably have the wrong impression of what this book consists of before you read it; I did. Some may think, or hope, that it is an ER-type medical thriller. It is not. Some, as I did, may think that it takes the cases of five individual patients and goes into a detailed description of how they were treated and cured. It does not. What the book actually does consist of is a series of five separate medical cases that are used to illustrate larger aspects of the hospital in general. The five cases average about 30 pages apiece, with about 4 or 5 pages of that going into the actual details of the case. The book is somewhat interesting:  it goes into detail about the inner workings of a hospital that those outside of the medical profession probably know next to nothing about. This glimpse into the academic medical community  is informative and makes for fairly interesting reading. The writing is dry and formal, often quite technical, which will, no doubt, turn off those who read Crichton merely for his page-turning suspense. Though the book has its merits, as mentioned above, one is ever aware, while reading it, that the book was written in 1969. Though some points of it are still valid and interesting, and Crichton's writing is always worth reading, it is inescapably quite outdated. One may get the most out of it by using it as a snapshot of how medicine was 30+ years ago. Of course, at any rate, this is a minor work in Crichton's canon. Reccommended only for hard-core fans of the author and perhaps medical historians looking for an objective look at medicine during the late 60's.	2003-04-30
US	50002830	RPDRGF5KRLVKE	0671739166	237012102	The Story of Philosophy: The Lives and Opinions of the World's Greatest Philosophers	Books	5	14	16	N	N	Will ignite within you a love for philosophy	Among laymen, philosophy is, perhaps, the most oft-berated and easily-dismissed subject of them all, surpassing even esoteric science and higher mathematics in that regard. This is unfortunate because, as anyone who has studied it knows, philosophy is a beautiful and perpetually-interesting subject ripe for years of study and enjoyment. The negative light in which philosophy is often portrayed is primarily due to its inherently esoteric nature and specialized nomenclature that scares off many would-be pundits and leaves many a common man shaking their proverbial head. The solution, then, is to introduce this interesting and beautiful subject to the masses in a way that portrays it as interesting, practical, and vital  without being overly complex or intimidating. Will Durant's The Story of Philosophy does just that. Starting with Socrates (through Plato) and going through the late 19th century European and American philosophers (wrapping up with John Dewey), the book hits most of the high points of Western philosophy while also being, inevitably, incomplete. Most of the truly major philosophical figures (Socrates, Plato, Aristotle, Bacon, Spinoza, Kant, Nietzsche, etc.) are covered adequately, and a handful of lesser-known names are gone over as well. In addition to summarizing the major points of the various philosophies, the book does one other thing that I see as very important:  it also gives a short biography of the philosopher in question, as well as general background information and a note on the times in which they wrote. This is important because it allows the reader not only to see the philosophy they created, but WHY they created it, and how the circumstances of their time and place contributed to it. This is very important, especially in those not-infrequent cases where the philosophy in question seems absurd or ridicilous today. I agree with other reviewers in that the book's strongest chapter is the one on Voltaire. Although not even considered a truephilosopher by some, Durant shows how important Voltaire was to the philosophical traditon as a compiler of knowledge and as an influence on virtually everyone who lived during his time and everyone who came after. The book is very well-written -- scholarly and erudite, while also levied with a subtle sense of humor and an endering educational slant. Another strength of the book is that it leaves out aspects of philosophy that are either tangental or would scare off the average reader -- i.e., epistemology, which the author harbors an obvious disdain for. Kant's philosophy, though its high points are covered adequately, is, as the author himself admits, somewhat glazed over -- but certainly it is covered adequately enough for the average reader (books several times the size of this one have been written critiquing just one small aspect of Kant's critique.) The book, however, does have its limitations, which the average reader will not care too much about, if they even notice them at all, but which a scholar or professor of philosophy would decry. First off, the book skips pretty lightly over some major philosophical figures (Descarte, Hume, Locke, Rosseau.) Also, since it was originally written in the 1920's and then later updated in the early 60's, it misses some more contemporary philosophers and philosophical movements (notably, Sarte and the existential movement.) Still, this is a very practical and useful introductory text to philosophy that is time-honored and hard-to-beat. I reccommend it to you if you have even a passing interest in the subject. If you read it and enjoy it, you will be forever a lover of philosophy. In my own personal case, it introduced me to two philosophers with which I was only vaguely familar (Spinoza and Schopenhauer), and that I now plan on reading more of. Hopefully it will do the same for you.	2003-04-28
US	50002830	R3R8R6EXBX8DLC	0486266869	412640475	Complete Sonnets (Dover Thrift Editions)	Books	4	41	43	N	N	Perfect - if you want only the bare bones	The Dover Thrift Edition of the Complete Sonnets is exactly that:  the complete sonnets, and nothing more. Though often scorned by literary snobs, the entire Dover series does fulfill one very useful function:  it provides cheap, easy-to-read, and widely-available versions of literary classics. What you get, in this case, are all of Shakespeare's sonnets (undisputably some of the greatest poems ever written and a true treasure of English literature; obviously, a review of any edition of these poems will inevitably focus not upon the work itself, which is beyond repute, but, rather, on the individual edition as presented) -- and nothing else. Much more expansive (and expensive) versions are available, featuring an introduction to the sonnets with background information, notes and annotations, a handy list of definitions for archaic and obscure Elizabethian words -- and, more than likely, at least one pretentious individual interpretation of the work. Obviously, if one is looking to study Shakespeare, really go in-depth into the sonnets for scholarly or academic purposes, then one should look into one of the editions just described. If you just want a copy of the sonnets without desiring to spend too much money, you don't need or don't want all of those extras, or you simply want to impress incredulous people by owning a set of Shakespeare's sonnets, however, then you could do worse than picking up this inexpensive little book.	2003-04-16
US	50002830	REODLJ3I0D449	0517053616	420218883	William Shakespeare: The Complete Works, Deluxe Edition	Books	4	54	58	N	N	The work is unquestioned; the edition, questionable.	The very idea of reviewing or giving stars to Shakespeare in this format is superfluous:  he is the epitome of English literature. The source and inspiration for many subsequent classics, the well from which many popular expressions have sprung, the basis for many brilliant (and not-so-brilliant) stage and film renditions of these classics -- Shakespeare's literary greatness lies universally ackwnoledged and unquestioned. In reviewing any edition of the man's works, then, the reviewer's task is not to comment upon the work itself, but the presentation. This Gramercy edition of The Complete Works (yes, that's all 37 plays -- comedies, histories, and tragedies -- as well as all of the poems, sonnets included) is the most popular and widely-available -- and inexpensive -- version available. Is it the best? Well, no. Other reviews of this edition have commented upon its shortcomings -- extremely small print; very tight and hard-to-read layout; no margins for notes; no footnotes or annotations; no background information on the plays; errors, typos, and generally questionable editing. That said, this edition may have what you're looking for. It does indeed contain the complete works; it also has a few other small incentives:  a hard cover that looks great on a bookshelf, a built-in bookmarker, and various illustrations. Clearly, this is not an omnibus for the Shakespeare scholar. If you want an edition of the bard for in-depth study or for academic use, you are better off buying more expansive editions of the individual plays themselves, with plenty of background info, notes, annotations, and space for your own writing; or else one of the more expensive editions of the Complete Works. That said, if you are just looking for a Shakespeare book that has all of his works in one place, that is convenient and, above all, inexpensive -- or you just want a Shakespeare tome sitting on your dust-ridden bookshelf to impress friends -- then you could do worse than picking up this.	2003-04-15
US	50002830	ROYZ8IRNXP53R	0061090913	604508446	And the Ass Saw the Angel	Books	3	5	8	N	N	3 and 1/2 Stars	I can but offer a very simple word of advice regarding whether or not to read this novel: if you are a Nick Cave fan, then pick this up; if you are not, then stay far, far away. The Southern Gothic imagery that influenced Cave so much is prevalent throughout the novel, and the entire book is written in such brutal, blunt prose that it will, no doubt, leave many reeling. The dark, enchanting atmosphere that is present in many of his songs is in full evidence here - spread out over 400 pages. One really has to hand it to Cave - how many musicians could write a (worthy) novel? - as he is clearly a very articulate person and is able to set forth a truly engrossing atmosphere in this book with his beautiful, alliterative prose. Though the author himself has stated that the book is not a parable, I find it hard to see the book any other way: on a literal level, it makes little sense and it is far from a linear narrative. Cave switches perspective and writing styles often while sprinkling Bibilical quotes throughout the novel. That said, as is the case with Leonard Cohen's books, the prose is so beautiful that you will love reading it, anyway. As anyone who is familar with his work knows, Cave was vastly influenced by the Bible - he actually wrote a foreward to an edition of the Gospel According To Mark - and the title of the novel (as with some of his albums) comes from the Book. I see this book as a worthy modern parable in the Bibilical style; in any case, it is an interesting, certainly off-kilter work that Nick Cave fans will eat up for its macabre atmosphere and wild, flowing, darkly beautiful prose. Perhaps surprisingly, the novel was widely-acclaimed upon release from various diverse outlets in the both the mainstream and underground media - clearly a wide constictuentcy that reached beyond Cave's normal relatively small fanbase. Knowing this, I reccommend that you try this book, even if you are not familar with Nick Cave, if you are into Southern Gothic imagery orBibilically-inspired literature.	2003-02-01
US	50002830	RWIV9UBPGVI44	0312150679	104653767	Bob Dylan: The Recording Sessions, 1960-1994	Books	4	3	3	N	N	For obsessive fans only	Clinton Heylin, one of the leading writers on Bob Dylan (and author of, perhaps, the best biography on the man, Behind The Shades), deserves kudos for the exhausting amount of research he put into this book and the information he has presented. It is essential for obsessive Bob Dylan fans - is there any other kind? - who must have every little tidbit of information about the man and what he did in the studio. It is particulary interesting for collectors as it goes into detail about the many, many songs Dylan has recorded throughout the years and not released. It is a chronicle of absolutely everything that Dylan put to tape between the 1960 recordings made in the apartments of friends when he was still in college up to his Good As I Been To You album, as well as soundtracks and appearance on the albums of others, where relevant. Heylin includes not only a list of every song, but also the different takes, and shows what songs are circulating among collectors and which ones still have not seen the light of day. He also includes other relevant information such as what musicians played on the sessions, as well as several appendices such as a list of Dylan compositions, covers he has recorded, and even the session charts from the Desire sessions. The only thing that brings the book down is Heylin's own constant interjected commentary. It is unfortunate that seemingly every commentator on Dylan seems to see it as their duty to critize certain aspects of the man's work and say what he should have done differently - as if they had any right to question the genius of the greatest songwriter of the 20th century. Certainly, Heylin is entitled to his opinion, and never does he make the claim that this book is entirely objective, but, at times, it happens so often as to get in the way. Still, for the true Dylan fan, this book is still a must-have for the priceless information it gives. Casual fans need not bother.	2003-01-26
US	50002830	RGR82UV1O12UW	0553212168	569503661	The Brothers Karamazov (Bantam Classics)	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Truly one of the best novels ever written	The above phrase is, indeed, used far too often and too lightly, and is generously applied to works that definitely do not deserve the title. However, this deep, compelling, and profoundly thoughtful masterpiece is certainly worthy of the accolade. Dostoyevsky was never one to skimp on length, but this book is truly massive: nearly 1,000 pages in paperback form. Unbelievably, every word counts. His final novel, Dostoyevsky wrote this book at the end of his life, taking most of his final decade to do so, and it incorporates elements from each of his previous works into one unbelievably complex tapestry. You may have heard that this book is the story of a murdered father and his sons, one of which committed the patricide. Such a crude description of the book does no justice at all to this masterpiece: it is akin to saying that Animal Farm is about &quot;a bunch of animals who talk and rise up against humans.&quot; Indeed, this event does not even take place in the novel until well over a third of the way into the book - a length greater than that of most complete novels. It is merely a backdrop for the real ramifications of the novel: the psychological, philosophical, and theological ground it treads. As one perceptive reviewer noted, Dostoyevsky was as much a psychologist and philosopher as a mere novelist: his works had a huge impact on world thought in both of these fields - not just in Russia - and influenced everyone from Freud to Nietzsche to modern-day writers such as James Morrow. The problem of the existence of God is a central point of the novel - as it is in all of Dostoyevsky's greatest works - reaching its pinnacle in Ivan Karamazov's famous tale of the Grand Inquisitor. The work was obviously a huge influence on the aforementioned Nietzsche as it raised the frightening question that, if God does not indeed exist, is then everything permitted? - just as Crime and Punishment anticipated Nietzsche's concept of the Superman. Dostoyevsky clearly had a lot tosay, and he poured it all into this book. A profoundly deep, penetrating novel that portrays a frighteningly accurate portrait of human nature, The Brothers Karamazov is truly one of the greatest works of world literature. One of the greatest novels ever written.	2003-01-25
US	50002830	R18E3CE7MBQLZ0	0553211757	755691955	Crime and Punishment (Bantam Classics)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A penetrating psychological study	In the first of his string of classic novels, Fyodor Dostoyevsky delves deep into the human psyche. Using prose that is thick and penetrating, Dostoyevsky weaves a deep, stunning psychological portrait. The book is written in a very unconventional style: the murder is committed at the front of the book - as well as the interweaving of other scenes, which seem to have little or no relevance at first - without giving any motive or reason for it. It is only later, much later, in the book that the reason for the murder is revealed, and we spend the rest of the book in the mind of Raskolnikov. Slowly, piece by piece, more and more of his character is revealed, until we are aware that we have read one of the greatest character studies and psychological portraits in all of literature. The book raises several philosophical questions - as do all of Dostoyevesky's works - namely: is the intelligent human being beyond good and evil? Are they allowed to transgress moral if it will benefit humanity? Who qualifies and who doesn't? As relevant as this book still is today, it was, at the time, a deft exploration of the prevailing philosophies of the time, as well as a question into the then-just-emerging field of modern psychology. Raskolnikov shows the true fate of a Nietzschian superman, and begs the question, Is a man able to escape his own conscience? A true literary masterpiece with broad implications that hit hard to this day.	2003-01-14
US	50002830	R10CQQ65KROCYV	0393312836	483124263	A Clockwork Orange	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Twentieth Century Masterpiece	Anthony Burgess' A Clockwork Orange is a true classic of modern English letters and one of the twentieth century's greatest works. In a nighmarish future society every bit as scary as 1984 (and far more plausible, it now seems), Burgess thrusts us into the world of Alex and his three \\"droogs\\": a world of ultra-violence, shockingly base treachery, and pure sadism. However, as anyone who cares to dig deeper knows, what appears to be a mere feathers-ruffling shocker  poses forcefully insightful philosophical questions. The notion of crime and punishment - as well as more practical side issues such as prison overcrowding - has been perenially debated, but what about some of some of Burgess's more troubling points: if we can somehow condition criminals to refrain from violent acts by quite literally depriving them of free will, are we in the right? Do we now have a harmless, perfectly good citizen or a mindless stooge who cannot even defend himself? If we take away a persons's choice, even the choice to do evil, are we left with something less than human? And, even more thought-provoking, is a person who does not do evil only because of being physically unable any better than a person who does do it freely? Burgess tackles these and other issues with sheer abandon, brilliant writing, and truly original vernacular. As ground-breaking as the movie was and is, the book is even better. A must-read.	2003-01-07
US	50002830	R1TRLH18ADTGI9	0613084691	755648783	The Odyssey (Turtleback School & Library Binding Edition)	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Essential version of the classic adventure story	Merely reviewing the Odyssey would be superfluous: it is, quite simply, the greatest adventure story of all-time. Its age and long endurance have only served to increase its reputation. There have been countless translations - including Alexander Pope's famous one, as well as the standard Oxford text - and this is the most recent major translation. It is also an essential purchase for any fan of the Odyssey, and, I think, the best place to start for those who have never read the epic in any form before. Fagles has given us a startling new modern verse translation, for which he has been widely acclaimed and given numerous awards, and it helps to restore the epic poem to some of its original Hellenic splendor, while, at the same time, being extremely exciting, immensely readable, and highly commendable. Fagles's translation is a masterpiece in itself. Aside from the masterful translation, the book is a deluxe must-own: complete with library binding, it also includes a long (60+ page) introduction from Bernard Knox, which is scholarly and interesting, while also remaining immensely readable. Knox has also provided deluxe notes for the edition, and it is further rounded out by such bonuses as a series of maps depicting Homeric geography, a pronunciation dictionary, and several other sections giving you background information on the Odyssey, Homer, and the translation. Certainly the definitive version of The Odyssey available to the mass market today, I cannot fathom why it isn't more popular here at Amazon, as it is the version that you most consisentently see on bookshelves across the country. Let us help change that by making this the version of The Odyssey you purchase, if you are at all interested in it, Homer, or ancienct Greek epics.	2003-01-06
US	50002830	R3TAS7XP7SXGAV	0140445137	862001785	Beyond Good and Evil: Prelude to a Philosophy of the Future (Penguin Classics)	Books	4	15	18	N	N	Nietzsche turns philosophy on its head	Though he was all but unread during his actual lifetime, the eventual impact of Friedrich Nietzsche's writings have had something of the effect of a hydrogen bomb being dropped on the world of philosophy. Though this is perhaps not Nietzsche's best book, it is probably the best one to read if you are not familar with his works, as it is a nice and concise introduction to his philosophy, and easier to get into than other works, such as the more famous Thus Spoke Zarathustra. In the course of this book, Nietzsche does nothing less than shake all of Western philosophy, including some of its most sacred and long-held tenets, to its core. Starting with the ancient Greeks and going all the way through the then-contemporary Schopenhauer, no one and nothing is safe from the scathing, vitrolic attack of Nietzsche's pen, being a critical assestment and denunciation of philosophy the level of which had not been seen since Voltaire - a man Nietzsche seems to have held a somewhat-reluctant admiration for (though he also speaks of a certain philosopher as being \\"more profound than Voltaire... and consequently a good deal more silent.\\") Nietzsche, herein, attacks some of our most sacred and fundamentally-held beliefs: boldly declaring that good and evil, ethics and morality, and more are simply mere cultural inventions, and cannot be objectively defined, while also telling us that there is no God, no soul, and that life is essentially meaningless and absurd. While all of these are obvious implications of Nietzsche's famous perspectiveism - and clearly give him full claim to the title of Grandfather of postmodernism and existentialinism - he was not, as is often claimed, a nihilist. No, Nietzsche tells us that there is one thing, at least, that is noble (if not quite virtuous): that which affirms life. Though this aspect of Nietzsche's philosophy is expanded upon much further in Zarathustra, we see that he was not, as one may tend to think from his writings, a pessimistic, gloomy,hopeless individual, but an enthusiastic person, full of zest for life, vowing that, despite everything, he would do it all over again. How many of us can truly say the same? That said, the book is not perfect: much of it is mere polemic, only vaguely philosophical, and, at times, downright embarrassing when read with the benefit of hindsight; the core of the book resides in the first two sections. Still, for those two alone, this book remains an essential philosophy read.	2003-01-02
US	50002830	R2K6MFVBA4UI7I	0205354807	795128242	Fundamentals of Psychology: The Brain, The Person, The World	Books	4	4	4	N	N	An excellent introduction to the world of psychology	The fascinating world of psychology - with its clinical, counseling, and research umbrellas - is one of the most consistently sought-after fields among laymen and student prospectives today. Almost every person, it seems, is interested in psychology in some degree - but carichatured presentations of the science in the mass media has given it a general unfortunate stereotyped profession. The layman or common person interested in psychology, then, needs a useful, informative text to introduce them to the ins and outs of the science. This book serves as a great introduction. Used as a textbook in introductory psychology courses in colleges throughout the nation, it is a useful tool for sparking your interest in the field. Thankfully, unlike many textbooks and books of this kind, it manages to avoid putting the personal issues and agendas of the author(s) too much to the forefront, and focuses instead on objective, factual information: the book uses a very technical approach that may seem dry to some, but which is ultimately worthwhile for the reader. A highly reccommended introductory text.	2002-12-29
US	50002830	RDE6P2FHITXBZ	1559347643	863446257	The Human Condition: An Introduction to the Philosophy of Human Nature	Books	4	8	8	N	N	A nice introductory text	Philosophy is probably the last thing that the average person wants to study in-depth, but this book makes for a very nice introduction for those interested. Rather than focusing on the various aspects of philosophy, or telling the story of philosophy through the individudual philosophers, the book, as the title suggests, relates the discipline through how it relates to human nature. This means that while, unfortunately, some aspects of philosophy are skipped over almost altogether (epistemology), others (ethics and morality, good and evil) are covered extensively, as are some other sub-genres of study related to the philosophy of human nature (race, gender, personhood.) Rosenstand has the unique and quite admirable ability to take what is, to many, the most unfathomable discipline possible and put it in terms that the average person can understand. In addition, within the various chapters and in additional sections at the end of each, Rosenstand illustrates some of the various points presented within the chapter through the use of examples from the world of literature and film. It is for this reason, among others, that this work is used as a textbook in introductory philosophy classes throughout the country. Further, for these reasons, and others, it is probably more accessible and less intimidating to the layman than that perennial classic, Will Durant's The Story of Philosophy. The only gripe I have with the book is that Rosenstand sometimes pushes her own views and agendas too much to the forefront, something that should not happen in a philosophy text, which should remain always subjective (especially in a book designed for introductory study.) That said, it is quite a simple task for the reader to discern one from the other. Ultimately, this book does a very good job of what it was designed to do: introduce neophytes to the philosophy of human nature.	2002-12-27
US	50002830	R33V26NNS94Q5	0963056611	242722501	A Quest Among the Bewildered	Books	4	6	9	N	N	A neglected work of literary merit	A Quest Among The Bewildered is a vibrant and interesting novel that I am glad has finally seen the light of day. One is often skeptical when they hear about \\"a great unknown writer\\" or a \\"lost masterpiece\\" - and yet, it rings true in this case. Employing a dazzling, highly poetic style in his prose, Zendik cuts through the hypocrisy and lies of society and emerges with little pearls of beauty. Vaguely stream-of-consciousness, but highly readable, Zendik created here something that is very much a product of its time - The Beat generation - but also timeless. In our faceless society in which individuality is stifled, we will always need those like Zendik to question, to expose, and to enlighten. Many of his observations on such subjects as love, lust, morality, religion, and beauty are keen and piercing - offering us insight that few modern novelists can even hope to match. He can also be roaringly funny in spots, as well as desperately sad. This book can make you laugh, smile, and possibly even cry. Although the format of this book is somewhat typical of any Beat book, it goes above and beyond: you get the special feeling that you are peering into Zendik's diary as you read along. A unique writer - Zendik strikes me as a cross between Henry Miller (his writing style and perspective) and Kurt Vonnegut (his sense of humor.) This is a book that it is in your interest not to neglect.	2002-12-09
US	50002830	R70WDL8XIPSZL	0613494539	309898357	Papillon	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Inspiring and impossible to put down	Papillon is many things. It is an extremely engrossing book that is almost impossible to put down. It is an inspiring and courageous testament to the human spirit and perseverance in the face of the most seemingly impossible odds - a true Odyssey. It is also an earth-shattering wake-up call to those who think that prisoners do not suffer. Although conditions in prisons have obviously improved since the time portrayed in this book, here we get a rare glimpse into the penal system - straight from the mouth of a person who has been through it. This book contains many disturbing things, and goes into quite vivid detail about a lot of things which prisoners take for granted that we don't even think about - I won't spoil it for you: just read it for yourself. ... Aside from all of its overhanging social ramifications, however, this is a very entertaining and exciting book to read. One can read it simply for the action and thrills - of which there are many - while totally forgetting about its other, deeper level, and enjoy it fully on that front. There is, though, yet another aspect to the book: Papillon's unwavering sense of hope in situations that would cause almost any man to give up. No matter what happens, no matter how bad things get, he never loses hope - is always looking toward the next cavale. Charriere (who is Papillon, in case you were confused on that point), though no angel, is obviously an admirable and deeply fascinating character - it's a small wonder that many look at him as a hero and even a role model. He also opens our eyes to something that we often overlook (or choose to forget): criminals, by and large, though they may be social outcasts and lawbreakers, are very often invariably more good-hearted and honest than the often corrupt law system that locks them up. The loyalty the prisoners display towards one another, as well as the integrity and self-confidence they exude, is nothing short of astounding. Papillon's favorable comparison of the so-called \\"savage\\" peoples to his French countrymen are eye-opening as well. An immensely rewarding, eye-opening book that should be read by one and all.	2002-12-07
US	50002830	R1LWU5V0XIH95B	0066214122	245555180	Prey	Books	4	1	1	N	N	An immensely exciting, worthy novel	Although he will never win the Nobel Prize for literature, Michael Crichton is, to my mind, the only readable mainstream writer. That he also happens to be one of the most successful - and richest - does not in any way cheapen that. His writings, from the start, have been highly technical, and certainly a lot more meaty than the standard bestseller fare. The fact that he has such an exceptional history in sales owes more to his ideas (bringing back dinosaurs, anyone?) than to his actual writing style or crossover potential. Crichton has long had a knack for taking hot contemporary issues (American-Japanese relations, sexual harrassment, airplane problems) and turning them into interesting, learned, and highly readable novels. He continues this trend with his newest book, Prey. Of course, Crichton does enjoy his mainstream success while juggling complex material for a reason: his books are inevitably fun, fast-paced and exciting, and highly suspenseful. He writes in such a way that his books are almost impossible to put down (I read the great majority of this book in one marathon early morning session - staying up until 7:30 in the morning - because I absolutely could not pry my fingers away from the book.) Crichton tackles a new - and emerging, though not exactly prescient - subject in this novel: nanotechnology. While this is not as exciting or appealing to the average Joe as dinosaurs, it has the Janus-esque virtue of being appealing to the tech nerds who read Crichton's books - and is also written in such an exciting and invigorating way that the normal, everyday reader won't care. Narrarated in the first-person, this book starts out slowly, as Crichton novels tend to, as we see life through the eyes of an ex-computer programmer - now an unemployed stay-at-home dad. One must admire Crichton for taking risks in his books: despite his well-earned reputation and instant commercial potential, he still tackles complex and controversial issues such as gender roles in domestic situations. The protagonist of Prey takes care of the kids, cooks, and shops while his wife works late hours, is consistently late, and sometimes never shows up at all. Eventually, he begins to think she is having an affair - all of which adds up to an interesting subplot for the book. The book is somewhat oddly paced, as it starts out slowly and then, very suddenly and without warning, drops right into the main action part of the book - which goes on almost non-stop for roughly three fourths of the novel (not to mention Crichton's frequent technical discussions.) Still, this is a book that I think everyone can enjoy, as it is written very appealingly, while also incorporating some very provocative and interesting concepts. It may be easy, in light of the long and storied history of literature, to dismiss Crichton as a mere template writer (his actual prose has never been anything to write home about), but I think that, in today's almost totally stagnant literary climate, he serves a useful function: introducing complex, technical subjects to the masses. There hasn't really been a writer who has done that consistently since H.G. Wells. We should be thankful for him. Prey is an immensely exciting and quite worthy novel, a distinct improvement over his last book, Timeline, that all fans of Crichton, and all of today's readers, would be rewarded by picking up.	2002-11-30
US	50002830	R2YE8MJ5NFHYRP	0553212567	474714897	The Prince and the Pauper (Bantam Classics)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Connecticut Yankee, Jr.	Mark Twain was a true American original, one of American ltierature's titanic figures . He was also, as anyone who bothers to dig beneath the \\"guy-who-wrote-Tom-Sawyer-and-Huck-Finn\\" surface knows, a man with distinct and perhaps slightly provocative opinions. One of the things he most detested was monarchy, once calling it \\"the grotesquest swindle ever invented by man.\\" In his later highly controversial novel A Connecticut Yankee In King Arthur's Court, he took on the concept in a vicious and fearless adult satire. In this, a prior novel, he did the same while aiming principally at younger readers. The story, while featuring a lot of Middle English dialect, is written in fairly simple and straight-forward prose, opening the book up to readers young and old. The oft-forgotten original subtitle, A Tale For Young People of All Ages, perfectly sums up the merits; while it may have been written primarily with a young target audience in, adults can easily enjoy and appreciate it. Though of novel length, the style recalls classic fairy tales and will probably be appealing to any child who likes to read. Adults will note and appreciate the deeper meanings and Twain's ever-present wit. The book is very well-written; though a master writer, Twain was sometimes prone to clumsy prose in novels - but not here. The Prince and the Pauper is practically a tour-de-force of character development and suspense . Reccommended to younger readers looking to broaden their horizons and Twain fans of any age.<br /><br />As a final thing worth mentioning, many reviewers have commented that the dialect -- which Twain uses in nearly all his writings, which is part of the reason he was such a great writer, not to mention why he is American literature's true father -- is hard to understand. If these assertions have bothered you, however, rest assured; they are greatly exaggerated. There is not that much dialogue, and word meanings are usually obvious - even to children; we must remember the audience after all. Most children who would read this would probably already be familar with these elementary colloquial phrases from King Arthur stories. Even if not, Twain foresaw this - and was helpful enough to include a useful appendix.er all. Most children who would read this would probably already be familar with these elementary colloquial phrases from King Arthur stories. Even if not, Twain foresaw this - and was helpful enough to include a useful appendix.	2002-11-24
US	50002830	R2OFKV0TLYUTBY	0142437085	318922478	The Innocents Abroad (Penguin Classics)	Books	4	4	6	N	N	One of the classic travelogues of all-time	A complete burlesque of the traditional travelogue, especially the ones prevalent at the time of its release, The Innocents Abroad is a true classic of the genre. Mark Twain, even at this early stage in his career, had a keen eye for truth, and was unflinchingly honest and forward with his opinions and observations. Written before the anally-politically correct current era, Twain was free here to set forth what he truly thought about the given situations - even if it burned some ears. His irrevent descriptions of some of the most famous (not to mention holy) landmarks in Europe and the Middle East are by turns caustically biting and cynically hilarous; on the other hand, and far less ackwnoledged, are his enthusiastic waxings over the true beauty of certain artifacts and scenes. Twain here, unlike so many other travel writers both past and present, truly gave his own honest impressions of the things he saw - even if he disdained some of the most revered things on earth. Twain, characteristically, was also humble in his way, freely admitting his ignorance of such subjects as art - while, at the same time, showing off his immense knowledge of history, The Bible, languages, and many other subjects. Twain was a true American original, and he is sorely missed. One might call the book a bit overlong: some passages go on longer than they should, and some of the attempted humor falls flat. Furthermore, some of the drier sections are less interesting and more tiresome to wade through; still, Twain's ever-present sense of humor and continually sharp wit are always there, and serve to make this book perpetually more interesting than the stadard dry, boring travelogue. A must-read for fans of travel writing, and of course for fans of Twain.	2002-11-21
US	50002830	R37DP9XBNE8WYD	0345310918	166385709	Nightfall and Other Stories	Books	4	5	7	N	N	Title story, excellent; the rest, a mixed bag	The classic title story of this collection of short fiction, Nightfall, was voted the best science fiction short story of all-time. It is a classic of the field, and a masterpiece of atmosphere. Anyone who calls theirself a science fiction fan and has not read it is merely posing. This book, for most readers, then, is worth picking up for that story alone. That said, despite its classic status, the rest of this collection, though it does have its moments, does not reach the high standards set by the title story. Other winners include the classic and oft-anthologized It's Such A Beautiful Day and the rendering and chilling \\"Breeds There A Man...?\\" There are other stories of quality in this book, but, unfortunately, they are not among Asimov's best. Like his contemporary Grand Master, Arthur C. Clarke, as Asimov got further and further into his writing career, though his novels remained excellent, his short stories began to falter: many of them seem infected with an over-eager attempt at cleverness. While this often makes for some amusing stories (Strikebreaker, What If..., What Is This Thing Called Love?), it does not often make for classics. Thus, while this collection is certainly good - and the title story is an absolute must-read - it is not Asimov's best short story collection (try Nine Tomorrows or one of the Robot anthologies for that.) If you are a die-hard Asimov fan, I recommend picking this up; however, if you are a casual reader, or new to the good Doctor, or perhaps just want to read Nightfall, then I suggest you pick up a more wide-ranging collection such as The Complete Stories.	2002-11-12
US	50002830	R35EQS3LLHMIDI	0886820081	829003361	It's Such a Beautiful Day (Classic Short Stories)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	3 and 1/2 Stars - Great story, but...	...why buy this when you can get it in other Asimov books along with many other excellent stories? This short story, which can be equally enjoyed by adults and children and is a good way to introduce the latter to science fiction, while certainly a genre classic, is widely available in several different anthologies. For example, you can read it in Asimov's monumental collection The Complete Stories, Volume 1. That said, if you want to own this particular story by itself - a good idea if you're planning on handing it to children, as it is small and lavishly illustrated -, or if you are an Asimov completist, then you will want this nifty and hard-to-find item.	2002-11-12
US	50002830	RWHAUULTOIX8L	038541627X	229605670	Isaac Asimov: The Complete Stories, Vol. 1	Books	5	161	164	N	N	A concise and necessary collection	Isaac Asimov was one of the most prolific writers not just in science fiction, but in all of literature. Having written upwards of 500 books (distributed throughout every category of the Dewey Decimal System), compliling the definitive Asimov omnibus, clearly, is a monumental task. This, the first in a three volume series (I have never come across the two subsequent volumes), collects a good portion of Asimov's short fiction (though, indeed, not as many as the title implies) - including some of his earliest work, and some of his best. This collection includes about 50 stories, comprising the previous short story collections Earth Is Room Enough, Nine Tomorrows, and Nightfall and Other Stories in their entirety. Included in it are some of the classic science fiction short stories of all-time: Nightfall, The Last Question (one of my absolute personal favorites, as well as Asimov's own favorite of his writings), and The Dying Night; as well as personal and sentimental favorites such as The Ugly Little Boy, Jokester, Dreaming Is A Private Thing, Profession, and Breeds There A Man...? It also includes such widely anthologized pieces as It's Such A Beautiful Day, The Fun They Had, and The Machine That Won The War. The collection also picks up several lighter pieces - such as examples of Asimov's poetry, which show that, despite his often leaning toward the cerebral in his stories, the good Doctor was also one big goof. Though by no means a complete overview of Asimov's short fiction, this is a very good place to start if you are new to the author - or if you want to get a good portion of his works in one convenient place. One need not go into the individual merits of these stories: Asimov's reputation precedes itself. This is some of the greatest science fiction ever written, essential to any fan of the genre, or of imaginative writing in general. Very highly recommended.	2002-11-12
US	50002830	R1VMV9PIFK67CA	0345320727	136337176	Nine Tomorrows	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Some of the best science fiction ever written	Isaac Asimov, science fiction grandmaster and one of the absolute best writers in the field ever to wield a pen, wrote so much - and so much of high quality, at that - that it is difficult for a newcomer to his works to even know where to begin. This daunted me so much that, for a while, I dared not venture into Asimov's canon at all - doubtless, many others have done so as well. Now that I have finally started reading him, I regret that I didn't do it long ago. I urge - urge - you not to make the same mistake. Though Asimov wrote literally hundreds of short stories, this short and concise collection features some of his very best. Included in this collection are absolute masterpieces such as The Last Question (one of the Top 3 science fiction short stories of all-time, in my not-so-humble opinion); Profession (an excellent and very underrated story); The Dying Night (an excellent SF mystery that has been, alas, outdated by subsequent science, but is still enjoyable to the full); The Ugly Little Boy (a rare emotional moment for Asimov, and a great story at that - he called this his third favorite that he ever wrote); and Spell My Name With An \\"S\\" (a unique and clever story sprung from the lifelong trouble Asimov had with people adding an extra \\"S\\" to his surname.) This collection also includes several lighter pieces, which serve to fill space and lighten the mood. Very, very, very highly recommended to any fan of science fiction writing, an absolute classic and masterpiece of the genre.	2002-11-12
US	50002830	R34SKYSE5WMCE9	0449233839	995427217	Earth is Room Enough	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Not Asimov's best collection, but worthwhile	Isaac Asimov was, unquestionably, one of the greatest science fiction writers to ever pick up a pen. As well as his award-winning novels, he also wrote some of the classic short stories of the genre. This collection was one of his earliest such (preceded only by 1955's The Martian Way.) As these are early Asimov, they are not his best or most representative work. Although all are written in Asimov's clever and intimitable style (including the witty poem), there are not real, true classics included - some are very good, some are quite good, and a few merely pedestrian. Personal favorites of mine from this collection are Dreaming Is A Private Thing (concerning which Robert A. Heinlein accused Asimov of making money out of his own psychoses), and Jokester, a highly original and clever story. Pick this up if you are an Asimov fan and have already made headway into his works; otherwise, read a few of his better, more classic collections (such as Nine Tomorrows), first.	2002-11-12
US	50002830	R14GPYT7ZDSHZP	1570020159	970125549	The Food of the Gods	Books	3	3	4	N	N	3 and 1/2 Stars	Everyone knows that H. G. Wells wrote some great books that are classics not only of speculative fiction but of literature itself. However, anyone who has delved deeper into his canon knows that he also wrote many of far lesser quality. The Food of the Gods begins quite slowly and awkwardly, and I initially thought it would be one of his lesser books, but it thankfully became more interesting and fascinating. Wells' prose style, merely functional at the best of times, is particularly awkward and trying at the start of this book. It does, however, improve much as the story continues. Even if you find this slow going at first, my advice is to stick with it; the last fifty pages or so are classic Wells, finding him at his most poetic and striking. The Food of the Gods is Wells in the social commentary mode that he tended to feature in novels after the turn of the twentieth century; if his position is not as abundantly clear as in some of his other works, it nonetheless makes for fine reading. This is not a first-class Wells novel by any means, and though you should read at least a handful of his books before this, you will eventually want to pick it up if you are a fan.	2002-10-17
US	50002830	R1H6I4Y2ECLTPS	0246123672	548376022	Robots and Empire	Books	4	88	90	N	N	The missing link	Asimov, like Heinlein, came, towards the end of his career, to integrate the characters and universes from all of his major works into one huge, interconnected fictional world. This was not his original intention, but it's the way that it worked out. Chronologically, the Robot series is first - which started out in the form of short stories, and then a series of novels, of which this is the fourth - followed by the Empire and then the Foundation series. The third Robot book, The Robots of Dawn, was a sequel for which readers had to wait 25 years for. The next book, this one, came a mere two years after it. Robots and Empire, however, represents a major break from the tradition of the previous Robot books. The three subsequent books were all murder mysteries staring the Earthman Detective Elijah Baley. This book, however, is not a murder mystery, but more of a straightforward story - and Baley has been dead for over 200 years. It picks up where The Robots of Dawn left off, in a slightly different context. This is a fast-moving and quite entertaining book in its own right, and you will certainly want to read it if you enjoyed the previous three novels. It is sometimes painfully obvious, however, that this book was intended solely to provide a smooth transition from the Robot series to the Empire series. Consequently, the book does this job very well, tying up the loose ends from the previous Robot book, and clarifying what would have been several contradictions between the Robot and Empire serieses - the reason for the radioactivity on Earth, the motive behind the immigration of the Earth people, and the fact that there are no robots in the Empire novels, etc. However, this comes with a price: the book is not all that great in and of itself. There is not really that much in the way of plot - certainly not like the great mystery plots in the three previous novels; indeed, even the original robot short stories were more or less mysteries themselves. That said, despite this weakness, the book is still very fast-paced and quite fun and entertaining to read - and, of course, provides the necessary transition between the two serieses. Whatever the book's individual merit, you will want to read it if you plan on going through the series. This vast integration of all these epic stories, this book included, show the visionary and plotting skills of Asimov, and you can not help but marvel at his unquestioned virtuostic abilities. The vast scale of this fictional universe - including also three books by other authors - can be very daunting to the neophyte. I suggest you make use of the several very helpful \\"Listmania Lists\\" at Amazon, so that you will know what order in which to read the books, and so that you can start on and enjoy the unparalleled fictional world of Isaac Asimov.	2002-10-14
US	50002830	RL7RGLD9ZHTIU	0679748253	950349469	Beautiful Losers	Books	4	21	23	N	N	Cohen's sense of beauty taken to the extreme	\\"Beautiful Losers\\" is the perfect title for this book. Though Cohen, of course, has come to be known foremost as a songwriter and secondly as a poet, this novel, his second, came out in 1966, two years before the release of his first album. As anyone who has read his poetry and prose or listened to his songs knows, Cohen is a very gifted man with words. Not since Oscar Wilde and James Joyce have I seen a man who can manipulate the English language and drop little nuggets of beauty among the vast sea of sorrow as well as he can. Cohen's writing style is very smooth and beautiful, and the images he creates are very evocative. To try to imagine how this book reads, think of Cohen's lyrical or poetic style - and then run it on out to Cloud 9. As I said, this book is perfectly titled - it is beauty - indeed, everything - taken the to extreme. The writing is very beautiful and wondrous to read; the review which states that Cohen's style is like \\"James Joyce... writing from the point of view of Henry Miller\\", contrary to its apparent surface of hyperbole, is actually highly accurate. People often cite Miller as the predominant writer of erotic material, but I think that Cohen is the true master of the art: he gets to the very heart of the subject. Consequently, this book is very, very vulgar and quite disturbing at times - if it were not for the monumental court decisions on Ulysses and Tropic of Cancer, this book would, no doubt, have never been published in the United States. This is raw, rugged, beautiful prose. As many other reviewers have pointed out, this is really a poem described as a novel - or prose, at any rate. The actual plot, or, indeed, the meaning of the book is... well, it cannot be explained. It simply must be read. In the end, like Ulysses, this is a book that is more notable for its style, prose, and utter breadth of technique than for its actual content - the old Wildian idea of form over substance. And, though nonsense it may apparently be, oh, what form it is...	2002-10-14
US	50002830	R26LWYNPFNR4QP	0553299492	659507995	The Robots of Dawn (The Robot Series)	Books	5	6	8	N	N	Well worth the wait	Although, in this year 2002, I have just recently finished reading The Robots of Dawn directly after its prequel, The Naked Sun, and thus did not have to endure the 25-year wait between the novels as many who read that book when it came out did, I can assume that they, as I, considered it worth the wait. This is a very good novel, indeed. When Asimov first began writing his robot stories in the 40's, the concept itself was relatively new and bold - and, to many, unthinkable. Of course, when this book finally came out, in 1983, robots were no longer a novelty - and the dictations of their behavior had, by then, moved beyond Asimov's original fundamental Three Laws of Robotics. Still, the conflicts in this book, as in virtually all of Asimov's other robot stories, hinge crucially on those Three Laws, and the complications inherent therein. It is amazing that, as much as Asimov had already written on the subject up to that point, he could still come up with new and novel twists relating to them - but he does, indeed, and does so very well here. Although the actual unraveling of the mystery itself, as in The Naked Sun, never quite reaches the peak of intensity and excitement as did the plot of The Caves of Steel (the first novel in this series), this is, nevertheless, a far more ambitious work than the previous two books - not only in length, but also in scope. With this book, Asimov also begins to tie in the Robot series with the Empire and Foundation serieses (as he does in the sequel, Robots and Empire) to create one grand, monumental fictional universe. This is a testament to the skill and unique visionary perspective of one of the greatest fiction - not just science fiction writers - of the 20th century. Anyone who loved The Caves of Steel and The Naked Sun will undoubtedly love this further amazing edition to the series.	2002-10-10
US	50002830	R2W4FYXA5JDIAC	0553293397	345876674	The Naked Sun (The Robot Series)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	An entertaining adventure romp	Anyone who has read Isaac Asimov's classic science fiction masterpiece The Caves of Steel was undoubtedly clamoring for a sequel at the end of the book. The Naked Sun (Asimov would go on to write two more sequels) fulfills the task sufficiently. Although I think that, on the whole, the plot and murder mystery in this book - with less plot twists and turns, false leads, and dead ends - is not as interesting as the one in The Caves of Steel was, it is still thoroughly enjoyable, nonetheless. Granted, the concept of the murder mystery is one of the oldest scenarios in all literature - and was perfected by Conan Doyle, at that - and is, thus, rarely fresh or inventive - indeed, is usually quite stale. This is the real strength of The Naked Sun. This has what is, as far as one could conceivably allow in a murder mystery, a totally original plot. It is strange and intriguing in that the protagonist - and, indeed, the reader - knows nothing, absolutely NOTHING, about the murder. Detectives invariably start out with few clues, but in this he has absolutely none. Another interesting aspect of the book - and the highlight of it, for me - is the world, Solaria, and its inhabitants that Asimov herein describes. They have a truly different and remarkable way of life than that which we may find customary, and Asimov manages to make it believable and highly interesting. These factors combine to make the book interesting and fun to read. It is written in the style of its prequel: fast-paced, exciting, and hard to put down. This is certainly worth reading, if you liked the first one, and I highly reccommend it. For all of this praise, however, I do not find this book to be, on the whole, as good as The Caves of Steel. The Naked Sun, while being an extremely entertaining and fulfilling adventure romp, fails to convey the profundity of the original - indeed, this may stem from the fact that Asimov wrote this book out of incessant demand for a sequel (both from his publisher and his fans) instead of having it arise from pure inspiration. Alas, this is a highly entertaining book that I heartily reccommend to fans of the aforementioned masterpiece.	2002-10-07
US	50002830	R3LTT5HQH549T9	0684824396	917499383	The Bible According to Mark Twain: Irreverent Writings on Eden, Heaven, and the Flood by America's Master Satirist	Books	5	171	177	N	N	Indispensable religious satire	Mark Twain promptly proves with this volume that he is, indeed, as the title states, \\"America's Master Satirist.\\" Having grown up in a fundamentalist Presbyterian community, Twain knew his Bible well; and, like any thinking person, his beliefs and attitudes relating to it changed as he grew older, wiser, and more experienced. Although Twain - due to many factors, such as the death of several children and his wife and his failed investments - grew famously bitter towards the end of his life, his vision remained remarkably clear-headed, though clearly suffued with pessimism - indeed, his zest for the truth and absolute intolerance for mankind's accepted irrational beliefs became even more razor-sharp during this period. Although there are writings in this volume from all phases of Mark Twain's career, the majority of them do come from that latter period - a period in which, indeed, the exploration of these themes was the main facet of his writing. Included are such well-known items as the Diaries of Adam and Eve (as well as several other Old Testament characters), Captain Stormfield's Visit To Heaven (published here in full for the first time ever), and, of course, his masterpiece, Letters From The Earth. In these, and the other, oftentimes more obscure pieces, Twain burlesques and satarizes freely, calling mankind on both his steadfast taking to irrational and illogical beliefs, as well as on his sheer stupidity and gullibility. If one is looking for a satire along the lines of Tom Sawyer or Huck Finn, then this is DEFINITELY not the place to look; however, if you have a fondness, as I do, for the darker, more probing side of Twain, then this is a volume that you must most definitely pick up.	2002-10-05
US	50002830	R2SWZGYKGWD659	0848805372	949556910	Brave New World Revisited	Books	4	12	14	N	N	3 and 1/2 Stars	This book is not what one might assume merely from seeing the title and knowing nothing about it: it is not a sequel to Brave New World - it is not, indeed, a work of fiction. Truly, it is, at most, a cousin to it, and one assumes that Huxley used the title he did mainly for pecuniary reasons. One need not have read the fictional work in order to appreciate this. What the book consists of is a systematic examination of the social and political forces that may one day lead us into the kind of false Utopia present in Brave New World - or, looked at another way, the factors that keep a democracy from flourishing in our present day society (or during the time the book was written.) This book still hits the nail hard on the proverbial head in quite a few of its points: the use of propaganda and, especially, advertising methods in the systematic brainwashing of the masses. Some of the other factors, however, show the book's age. One must realize the time in which this book was published, 1958 - smack dab in the middle of Cold War paranoia and still reeling from WWII (references to both Hitler and Communism are rampant) and before the 60's counterculture and modern postmodern (nice phrase, that) movements gained a true foothold. Consequently, many of Huxley's points still hit home, as they probably always will, while others reek positively of era concerns. Still, Huxley's writing is invariably vibrant and crisp, not to mention immensely readable - he succeeds in making information that may, in essence, be dry to many appear fresh and exciting. I, then, reccommend this book to all who loved the fictional work and are looking for more along the same lines - especially if you're interested in the practical aspects of the theories involved therein - as well as anyone interested in this kind of rigorous social examination.	2002-09-30
US	50002830	R6RFU3CMH3IUI	0807014230	397623101	Walden: Lessons for the New Millennium	Books	4	15	15	N	N	An American original	Henry David Thoreau's Walden is one of the great classics of American letters. Although its reputation has been somewhat unfortunately tainted in our modern day times by its reputation as the &quot;treehugger's Bible&quot;, this, indeed, misses the point of the book entirely. Although Thoreau obviously loved nature, and was one of the nation's first enviromentalists - indeed, the modern day enviromentalist awareness outlook can be traced directly back to Thoreau - the core of this book is not a simple stating of the virtues of nature. No, indeed: Thoreau, in this book, lays down nothing less than a life philosophy. Both his essay &quot;On Civil Disobediance&quot; and this book, which preach the virtues of individual liberty and the importance of Man over State have been enormously influential on my own personal philosophy and views. Thoreau raises some staggeringly deep existential questions: If a man lives entirely outside of the State, doesn't depend on them at all, but still resides inside the boundaries of said country, need he pledge them any allegiance? Need he pay their taxes if he does not depend on their support for his welfare? Thoreau, here, tells us how to get the most out of life by living simply: using only what we need in life and doing without luxuries - cutting off the fat, so to speak. Indeed, much like the philosophy of Rosseau, Thoreau seemed to basically believe that the true essence and spirit of man resides in the state of nature: he assures us that, if all men lived as simply as he did at Walden, there would be very little theft, crime, violence, envy, or jealousy. He urges us all to live our own lives as we see fit, neither depending on or heeding others, and not merely become another mindless drone in the conformist society. For all of this greatness, the book, I must say, however, is not faultless. The book does tend to ramble at times - Thoreau might, indeed, have benifited from some editing. And, on a more personal note, I am far more interested in Thoreau's philosophical outlook on life than his observations on nature, and found many parts of the book focusing on the latter aspect to be a bit slow and trying. Still, if you belong to that camp, then I can only give this book an even higher reccommendation for you. An essential read for those who would have us return to a simpler state of things, as well as those in favor of preserving the natural beauty that is still left to us.	2002-09-26
US	50002830	RAJTLEDD50SDR	0486275639	397623101	Civil Disobedience and Other Essays (Dover Thrift Editions)	Books	4	14	16	N	N	Seminal American political philosophy	It is unfortunate that Henry David Thoreau experience little renown in his lifetime, but I am glad to see that he is now recognized as one of the leading lights of American political philosophy, as he well deserves to be. His writings, which have influenced everyone from Martin Luther King Jr. to Ghandi to Robert A. Heinlein to Don Henley, are the very essence of the strength of invididualism and freedom of the spirit. Thoreau was vehemently against slavery (his two essays on the subject in this volume are so passionate that they may move you to tears), and the title essay is, of course, a classic in itself. Distilling the virtues of conscience over the mere created laws of man, Thoreau makes a very good case here for self-government, and I am surprised he is not more frequently cited by the Liberterian movement. His remembrance of when he spent a night in jail for refusing to pay his poll tax - in which he says he felt that the prison walls did not confine him, that he felt more free than ever inside them, that he came to feel sorry for the state and even pity them for resorting to such measures, and that he, in fact, felt like he was the only citizen who did pay his poll tax - I find truly inspiring. They just don't make men like that, anymore. While many of us may find it hard to be so idealistic about things, we are reminded, in reading this, of a time when people could - and did - truly die for what they believed in. One wonders what Thoreau would think of present-day America. Life Without Principle is another eye-opening piece, in which Thoreau condemns the American social system and job ladder. Walking is a classic that is still cited by conservationists everywhere, and that helped in a big way in the U.S.'s national parks movement. Seminal American writing in the tradition of Thomas Paine, Ralph Waldo Emerson, and other great American thinkers.	2002-09-21
US	50002830	R2T7P8ILJFLLZ8	0375508325	979388730	Cosmos	Books	4	7	9	N	N	Science For Dummies	Carl Sagan, with this remarkable book and its like-named television series, introduced millions of people to the wonders of science. The 13-part series, which has now been seen by over half a billion people, aside from introducing many people to science, was also enormously influential - can one imagine the success of the modern Discovery Channel and its ilk (actual 24-hour science networks) without Sagan? Hardly. Undoubtedly, many of the leading figures in science today would credit Sagan with introducing them to the field in the first place. Perhaps even more importantly, however, Sagan did that incredible, seemingly almost impossible thing: he interested the average layman in science. Whether he was a &quot;real&quot; (whatever that means) scientist or not, as some refuse to concede, is totally beside the point: what he accomplished was monumental, and he should be given the credit he deserves. Many supposedly open-minded individuals would keep science esoteric and its knowledge among the hands of an elite few; Sagan not only pointed out why this is wrong, but also devoted his life to vigorously seeing that it never became so. This book is remarkable in that it explain many difficult and far-reaching concepts in relatively simple terms that most people will be able to understand - and even enjoy. Unlike many college textbook authors, Sagan, for the most part, keeps his personal biases out of the writing, and he rarely gets overly technical. This is truly a book that all can enjoy. There are many photographs and quotes strewn throughout the book as well, to pep up interest in the text. This is a great general, all-around book on science for the layman: truly a &quot;Science For Dummies.&quot; And, unfortunately, this book is often pigeonholed as a book solely on astronomy (the section in which you're likely to find it at bookstores), but don't let the title fool you: this book at least touches on all the major aspects of science, as well as quite a bit of history.Evolution is given a clear and concise overview, genetics is more than touched upon - and Sagan even induldges in a bit of the social sciences. However, the book, unfortunately, does grow less interesting towards the end, where Sagan uses the text to push his own agendas (radio astronomy, later the basis of his excellent science fiction novel, Contact; and a dated plea for peace in the nuclear arms race, which, though commendable and worthy, now smacks a little too highly of Cold War paranoia.) All in all, though, this is an excellent, highly interesting, and immensely readable book that works very well as introduction to the science (in particular, astronomy) for the common man, as well as guiding him towards that all-important virtue: open-mindedness. Along with Stephen Hawking's A Brief History of Time and some (unfortunately) long-out-of-print books from Arthur C. Clarke and Isaac Asimov, this is perhaps the best type book of its kind. Highly reccommended.	2002-09-19
US	50002830	R3LFHPV5T5X8U7	0345277961	971763862	Between Planets	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Delightful read	I am continually amazed at the consistently high quality of Robert A. Heinlein's writing. Whether he was writing a short story for a pulp magazine, a light adventure story for teenagers, or an epic work for adults, there was one consistent fact running through all of Heinlein's works: they are fun to read. Heinlein's work is the literary anti-thesis of &quot;watching grass grow.&quot; His dialogue was top-notch (the best since Oscar Wilde), and his stories were fast-paced and exciting. Although many claim that he lost his touch in later years and began writing overlong, self-indulgent novels that pushed his hobby horses at the expense of a narrative, his &quot;juvies&quot; - great SF adventure yarns written for teens in the 1950's - remain a fascinating and remarkable staple of this kind of literature. Although his writings then were all fast-paced and extremely fun to read, the truly incredible thing about them is that they are much more than just surface-deep: he consistently packed his books with provocative messages. Although some claim that he often beat you over the head and forced his opinions on you, one must at least admit this of Heinlein: his works were intelligent and thought-provoking; and, whether or not you agree with his opinions, you must certainly respect them. His works teach you to think for yourself - certainly a valuable asset for the growing teen. Between Planets, while not being among the top tier of Heinlein juvies (Red Planet, Tunnel In The Sky, Citizen of The Galaxy), is a fine, fun, and delightful read. Like many Heinlein works, it pushes the virtues of the military, and it features a lot of political and social overtones that may be lost among some of the younger readers for which it was intended - which is precisely why I reccommend this (and Heinlein's other juvenile books) to adults as much as to anyone. Readers of all ages can enjoy any of his works as they are invariably well-written and interesting. This book is certainly no exception. It has the quality of a mystery to it (a tactic which Heinlein did not often resort to), and it is suspenseful and will keep you reading. Many have pointed out that the majority of the story is now dated (not to mention impossible) due to subsequent advances in science - true. But Heinlein, though often classed as a &quot;hard&quot; science fiction writer, never intended for science to be the central tenet of his stories; no, Heinlein is the man who introduced the social sciences (politics, economics, psychology) into science fiction. This book is a prime example of that. Those who go around pointing out its scientific fallacies are missing the point. If for nothing else, enjoy the book for what it ultimately is: an enjoyable and delightful science fiction adventure romp. Any Heinlein fan will want to pick this up; if you are unacquainted, however, you should read some of his other works (such as the ones I mentioned, or later novels such as Starship Troopers, Stranger In A Strange Land or The Moon Is A Harsh Mistress) first.	2002-09-11
US	50002830	REY90FAI512EC	0553288105	229605670	The Gods Themselves	Books	4	2	3	N	N	4 and 1/2 - Unique and captivating	This book, like Asimov's Foundation series itself, took form in the author's mind from the germ of a very small and seemingly insignificant seed (see \\"An Introduction At Some Length\\" for details), but he managed to turn it into a (nearly) full-fledged masterpiece. The book starts out somewhat slow (for those who don't like a lot of technical details), as it has Asimov attempting to make the existence of something (Uranium-186) that isn't possible, seem possible. The average lay reader will certainly concede that he has accomplished the task, and may find the initial part a bit slow; the more scientifically-minded reader will admit that he did as good a job as could probably be done. If you find this part trying, trust me - stay with it. It's well worth your time and effort. The book, which deals with parallel universes, is written, appropriately enough, in a parallel structure: three separate, seemingly unconnected sections, which all stand on their own fairly well, come together in the end to form quite a conclusion. The book's sturcutre is quite similar to 2001: A Space Odyssey, in that it features individual sections that seem not to be related to one another, and then beging to cling together towards the end. The way that Asimov weaves the separate plot threads together to create a coherent whole is masterful, and I won't spoil it for you by describing it here. This is one of the book that you will just have to keep reading - and that will surprise you in the end. The good Doctor acccomplishes some clever things in this book (with chapter numberings, of all things), but something that is particularly of note (as has been well-pointed out by other reviewers) is the absolutely incredible second section. This section starts out strangely and is somewhat hard to follow at first (having seemingly nothing to do with the first part of the book), but weaves itself into such a shocking and masterful conclusion that it will absolutely leave you reeling. This section readsvery well on its own, and would've made an excellent short story all by itself. Its impressiveness is heightened, however, by the fact that Asimov fits it into the general scheme of the book. Unfortunately, the more pedestrian middle section of the book is a bit of a letdown after the incredible middle section. It shares some similarities with the first section, and I can't help but finding the resolution to be a bit of a duex ex machina. Sure, it works, but - it just isn't entirely satisfying, for some reason. One wonders if Asimov had written himself into a corner, as it certainly seems that he perhaps took the easy way out - but then again, it may have just been that I was looking for a shocking conclusion (say, the destruction of the universe), as the book jacket seems to promise. In any case, I'm no one to argue with the Master. A truly captivating and original work that is a notch below perfection for the reasons just mentioned - hence the not-quite-5-stars rating. Essential Asimov, essential science fiction - the two seem to go hand-in-hand.	2002-09-10
US	50002830	R21WVMRHD3D7CY	0553293435	813706617	The Stars, Like Dust (The Empire Novels)	Books	4	5	7	N	N	An exciting adventure romp	It is a great shame that Isaac Asimov's fun, if not exactly profound, Empire series is now entirely out of print. Like the rest of the series, the first of them, The Stars, Like Dust, is an entertaining, fun romp that is a quick read that will keep you glued to your seat. The plot is not Asimov's most original, but it is gripping and suspenseful, and will keep you reading (and guessing) right up until the end. Asimov, in his day, tried his hand at writing just very nearly every type of book there was to write, but I, and I am sure most will agree with me, have always felt that his true bread and butter was science fiction. He brought a touch of the mainstream (Asimov was fond of making a murder mystery or logic puzzle out of his SF stories) to the genre, which, along with his encyclopedic knowledge of all things scientific, made him attractive both to the diehards of the genre as well as to more conventional generally-non-SF readers. The Stars, Like Dust is a fine book that deserves to be back in print and deserves to be read. If you're an Asimov fan, I reccommend picking this book up if you see it.	2002-09-08
US	50002830	R77P9Z2NVJBP7	0553293400	579875460	The Caves of Steel (R. Daneel Olivaw, Book 1)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Masterpiece	The Caves of Steel is an incredible science fiction novel that work on two levels. Although it is deeply enmeshed in Asimov's robot universe, and has many of its inherent SF trappings, it is, at its heart, a murder mystery. For this reason, I think it can be enjoyed by science fiction fans and non-science fiction fans alike. It is very, very tightly written, quite suspenseful, and will keep you reading (and guessing) right up until the end. A true page-turner. That said, the novel, despite its brevity, probes quite well into some very deep issues. Baley and his relationship with his robot partner is quite a fascinating study: one watches his strong initial prejudice melt away as the book goes along, which makes for quite a statement on ethical relativism and cultural bias. Asimov also manages to bring up that oft-asked science fiction question: just what, exactly, does it mean to be human? On top of all this, the book features some quite philosophical aspects and several near-poetic bursts of dialogue that shows Asimov, like all good science fiction writers, did some good, hard thinking and extrapolation on where humanity may be heading in the future. He senses some real dangers (overpopulation, a dependence on technology, cities getting too big) and shows us the warning signs. The whole book is very well-written and described, and Asimov managed to build up quite a universe in it - the book has a very film noir aspect to it, and was obviously a big influence on subsequent writings by many different authors. Readers get the best of both worlds with an exquisite murder mystery, along with many other deeper issues examined that one would not normally find in a mere mystery story. An essential science fiction read, and  a masterpiece.	2002-09-05
US	50002830	R3DRQKTBBFHUMU	0553294385	297254906	I, Robot (The Robot Series)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Classic	Isaac Asimov's collection of short stories collected herein are both classics of the genre and important benchmarks in the history of science fiction. They were written as separate but semi-connected entities for the \\"pulp\\" magazines (mostly Astounding Science Fiction) between 1940 and 1950. (Isaac later added the short bits between stories to establish continuity when they were published in book form, as he did with the original Foundation trilogy.)  In them, Asimov posited his now famous \\"Three Law of Robotics\\" that became the basis of all his robot stories from them on, and for much of his other fiction as well. Though his stories were always well-grounded in scientific fact, Asimov wrote with a flair that was much more suspenseful than many of the other leading science fiction writers of the time (say, Arthur C. Clarke), that makes his stories, I would think, much more accessible and enjoyable to the common man or non-genre reader. Consequently, these are some of the most famous and influential SF shorts of all-time. Although frequently suspenseful and exciting (some bordering, even, on action/adventure), Asimov's stories in this collection are not really mere romps: they are, instead, a series of logic puzzles based on the Three Laws. They all follow a fairly standard formula (there is a problem with a robot(s) for some reason, and the characters within must solve the problem equipped with logic and the Three Laws), and the characters are not all that drawn-out - which does make them somewhat limited in a sense, and also slightly dated, but these are still fun, exciting stories that have held up and stood the test of time. These stories are also useful because they - hopefully -help teach a reader to be logical. Mr. Asimov himself possessed a highly logical and literally encyclopedic brain (truly a \\"jack of all trades\\", the good Doctor wrote and published books on nearly every conceivable subject - from science fiction and science fact to humor, Shakespeare, and the Bible - in turn becoming the only author in history to have a book located in every section of the Dewey Decimal System.) And so, while we cannot all hope to attain such a high level of proficiency, perhaps this book can help us open up our minds and think a little for ourselves - one of the true and unique virtues of science fiction, and one which is frequently overlooked. And, if some of these stories now seem dated (or even clich) in our modern day world, 50 years after they were written, one must remember - these are the stories that STARTED these clichs. They don't call them classic for nothing. An essential science fiction read.	2002-09-05
US	50002830	R2A1M8I3WG7NHH	0441478123	101055477	The Left Hand of Darkness	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Essential SF Classic	The Left Hand of Darkness is one of those science fiction books that belongs on every fan's \\"must-read\\" list. It's easy to see why it has gained the status of \\"classic\\" (and won both of science fiction's major awards): at the time it came out (1969), gender roles, women's lib, etc., were big deals, and this book delves head-on into those issues. What is interesting, to me, is the book was written by a woman, and it is told (mostly) first-person from a man's point of view. What's remarkable is that Le Guin writes the man well - better than most men do. Science fiction is often criticized for having flat, one-dimensional characters, particularly as regards to women. Many of its writers are often taken to task for portraying women innacurately and uninterestingly (Asimov, Clarke) or from a sexist point of view (Heinlein.) Consequently, many women writers who attempt to portray a man (and this trend is by no means restricted to science fiction) are often too sympathetic towards the women's cause - playing the \\"sexist\\" card - or end up portraying the man in exactly the way that they often claim the women are portrayed. What's remarkable is the Le Guin avoids all these pitfalls. Another of the book's strengths is that Le Guin has created a whole world - complete with a set of customs, language, and the like completely different from those of earth - an accomplishment comparable to the master creations in other classic science fiction novels (Dune, The Mote In God's Eye.) Le Guin is, principally, a philosophical writer, and the parts of the book that delve into the issues (of sexuality, ethical relativism, etc.) are its strong points. That said, however, her hand is less adept when she turns it to action. This type of writing is not her strength, and many of these sections come off as dry and boring when they are supposed to be exciting, suspenseful, and fast-paced. Particularly, the last section of the book (the winter trek) can be trying, and is, in my opinion, a mistake. Le Guin is much better when she sticks to the philosophical and ideological issues instead of trying her hand at action. Consequently, though all serious science fiction fans need to pick this one up at one time or another just to be able to say they've read it, those who prefer the genre's idea-exploring side will find it a much more satisfying read than those who go for good ol' rollicking action adventures.	2002-09-02
US	50002830	R1G6HDBQ7ERCN5	0275225305	570496466	The Eden Express	Books	4	70	72	N	N	A fascinating first-person recollection of insanity	I'll be honest with you: I read Mark Vonnegut's book because he is Kurt Vonnegut's son. The elder Mr. Vonnegut mentions it one of his books (I don't remember which one, but I'm pretty sure it's Fates Worse Than Death, or maybe Timequake), and I probably would never have picked it up (or even heard of it) otherwise. That said, it is a fascinating and very delightful book, full of insight and well worth reading. Not many books tackle the admittedly difficult issue of describing insanity from the inside out (i.e., in the form of a first-person recollection), and this book is truly useful for those looking for such a work. It's hard to imagine anyone doing it better. I can see this as a practical \\"must read\\" for medical professionals looking to identify more closely with their patients, or for anyone who just wants a more personal account of the subject matter than that often offered by dry, sterile medical textbooks. Mark's writing style is quite good, but also highly personal. He doesn't seem aloof or like somebody with whom we can't identify (as many people who have experienced mental illnesses inevitably do): he seems like just one of us. The emotions and problems he was going through are certainly things that many of us can relate to (especially those of us who lived through the times that the the book describes) - although the cause for his schizophrenia was never, of course, fully discovered, a lot of things, as Mark says, \\"happened all at once\\": his steady girlfriend cheating on him, his parents breaking up, his father becoming famous. Although Mark's writing style is nothing like his father's, the two do share a similar sense of humor. This, coupled with the delightfully personal aspect of the prose, makes this a great read for those interested in its subject matter. Reccommended.	2002-09-02
US	50002830	RC9UXU6XG04EQ	0156837501	74781857	Solaris	Books	5	12	13	N	N	Science Fiction with psychology and philosophy	Stainslaw Lem's Solaris is a somewhat overlooked classic in the science fiction genre. As Robert A. Heinlein once ably pointed out, H.G. Wells and Jules Verne between them set up nearly all the basic science fiction plots in existence - one rarely comes across something truly original in science fiction, merely new takes on an old theme. Solaris is one magnificent exception to this general rule. It is, indeed, a type of &quot;Contact&quot; novel - but not at all in the way the we have come to expect. The non-human in question is not an alien - or is it? This is one of the truly original SF creations and subsequent phenomenons - on scale with 2001's monolith and Star Child. I will not here divulge any details of the plot: the fun for the reader lies in experiencing it for oneself the first time. Solaris is a truly captivating first read. Aside from its science fiction and fantasy elements, Solaris is also much else: elements of horror and mystery abound. It is a very suspenseful book, and quite an invigorating read. In it, Lem mines the depths of human consciousness and raises existential questions about our subconscious and the way our minds work. The novel definitely has a somewhat psychological bent. On top of this, it is quite the philosophical work: Lem raises many questions, but gives no easy answers. He invites the reader to answer them how one may, but asking them is the important thing. On top of this, the novel, though containing some fantastic elements, is told in pain-staking detail: the protagonist quotes from fictional textbooks about the fictional &quot;ocean&quot; on this fictional planet, but they read like real scientific journals, and are quite believable. This is a nice and rather neat effect that adds a lot to the novel. Highly reccommended for fans of the science fictional or psychological novel, or those looking for a thoughtful fantasy.	2002-08-29
US	50002830	R2FIP3EZDVJFWV	0553211439	997665202	A Connecticut Yankee in King Arthur's Court (Bantam Classics)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Truly biting satire	Although this book's concept is no longer novel - one may now even call it clich&eacute; - its \\"time travel\\" aspect was - at least in the sense that it is used in this novel - a fairly new concept in fiction at the time Twain wrote it. No less a science fiction authority than Robert A. Heinlein even goes so far to say that Twain \\"invented\\" the time travel story. Now, this is certainly stretching the truth a bit, but one can see how Heinlein was heavily influenced by Twain from reading this book. This novel's time travel aspect is not used for science fiction; no, it is a purely satirical vehicle. Twain transplants an \\"aw shucks\\", no nonsense American smack dab in the middle of The Dark Ages. By having his character attempt to transplant American ideas of technology, government, and morals into this staunch, backward (anyway, by our standards) British society, Twain is clearly forging an attack upon monarchy - which he once called \\"surely the grotesquest swindle ever invented by man.\\" That said, we see from the devastating ending (which surely no one who has read this book wasn't surprised by) that the book is as much a satire on American arrogance and idealism as it is on the British. One may not always agree with Twain's politics, but one must at least respect them. He also demonstrates in this book the oft-forgotten truism that one's tribal customs are not the laws of nature - and what business do we have trying to force ours upon anyone else's? A devastating satire all around.	2002-08-27
US	50002830	R5HJDHLBFWEM6	0345353110	44414098	Space Cadet	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Another quality Heinlein juvie	Although Heinlein is now more well known, and will probably be remembered, for his later, more ambitious adult novels (Starship Troopers, Stranger In A Strange Land), his more important contribution to the field of science fiction may well have been his earlier novels intended for teens. These juvenile books - or \\"juvies\\", as they were then called - although notably less heavy on the dialogue and philosophy that would come to color later works (as well as being somewhat inevitably dated due to the fact that they were written half a century ago), are more than just your average run-of-the-mill youth fiction, and they have stood the test of time - and were, in fact, major contributions to the field of science fiction. You may well wonder why. The simple fact is that many scientists, engineers, and astronauts working today (just take a poll at NASA) were inspired to enter the field by these works of Robert A. Heinlein. It's no small wondert that NASA gave Heinlein a posthumous Distinguished Public Service Medal - their highest civilian honor. (They also helped pull the field of science fiction out of a mere genre niche into the mainstream: Heinlein, with these works, rose above the \\"pulp\\" market which most SF was relegated to, and cracked the \\"slicks\\" - the more respectable and well-known papers - the first science fiction writer to do so.) Although his later works may be more respectable as literature, these, indeed, serve to inspire. And they're still doing it today. If you want to get a younger person interested in science fiction, these are the perfect books - just as they always have been. They open the door to Heinlein's later works and the entire field of science fiction. The good thing about them, though, is that, though the books had teens as their target audience, they are just as good of a read for adults. This is because Heinlein knew the way to get teens to like books for teens: to write to them as if they weren't teens. Consequently, these books can be read and enjoyed by people of all ages. (It also works the other way: I read Stranger In A Strange Land at age 15, and my wife read it at 12.) They come very highly reccommended for younger readers, as they all teach many solemn virtues important for anyone - personal responsibility, loyalty, maturity, honesty - that may well make  a permanent impression on younger readers. However, the books are also very enjoyable for adults because of the way Heinlein wrote. I decree, this man could make anything, literally anything, entertaining. His writing was always breezy and sardonically funny, and his dialogue among the best and cleverest ever written - as has been well said, \\"as witty as Oscar Wilde's.\\"<br />This particular book, Space Cadet, though not the best of them, is another solid, action-packed romp. As with the best of his work of this type (Red Planet, Tunnel In The Sky) the book is exciting and action-packed, and there is never a dull moment. It is also very entertaining and a fun, fast read: the dialogue is great, and it's fun to read and moves along at a brisk, exciting pace. It also has several good moral points and instills some strong values in the reader. The plot of the book concerns a group of young men who are out the join the \\"Space Cadets\\", the peace keepers of the \\"Solar Federation\\" (sound familar? one begins to see just how influential Heinlein was.) The early part of the book has the characters going through the exams and trials required to join, and the latter half shows them in action. This book, such as it is, says a lot about how such military systems work (both practically and on a more personal, pragmatic level), and as such is kind of a watered-down version of Starship Troopers (although, of course, that book was written later.) I reccommend it very highly for younger readers, or for anyone who liked the basic idea of that book but was turned off by its heavy-handed approach. Another fine Heinlein juvie.	2002-08-23
US	50002830	R1T5C28QVPM587	0486268705	167266492	Dubliners (Dover Thrift Editions)	Books	5	12	14	N	N	One of the greatest and most influential collections	Though now more famous for his later, immense, incredibly ambitious novels, James Joyce's early collection of short stories remains a classic - and for good reason. Joyce, as someone once pointed out, was and remains almost unique among writers in that he published only masterpieces. Granted, he took years (eventually decades) to write each book - yes, even this slim volume of 15 short stories. It paid off. Just as Joyce was immensely influential with his stream-of-consciousness (or interior monologue) style used in Portrait of The Artist As A Young Man and Ulysses (#3 and #1 on Modern Libary's Top 100 Books of the 20th century, respectively), and the... let us say, indescribable, style of Finnegan's Wake (which people are STILL trying to figure out), his style in writing these short stories became almost the archetype for short fiction in this century. Instead of focusing on action-oriented events in the story (or, as Edgar Allen Poe suggested, by trying to create a particular mood), Joyce instead centered on the simple, everyday mundane events of regular life. This not only made the stories seem realistic and believable, but also made them universally applicable. This is the reason why this is considered one of the greatest short story collections of all-time, and has been one of the most widely anthologized. A true classic of the 20th century.	2002-08-19
US	50002830	RJPGY2U1RM5S5	0460873040	55373605	First Men in the Moon (Everyman's Library)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	A seminal book in the development of science fiction	Although it is not as famous as some of his earlier science fiction books (or \\"scientific romances\\", as they were then called), and is not an absolute classic like those books are, The First Men In The Moon is nevertheless a delightful and important satrical SF novel. Also, its importance in the development of modern science fiction cannot be overestimated. Although numerous books before had dealt with a story set on another world (let us here, for the sake of convenience, refer to the Moon as a \\"world\\"), Wells's book is the first to make it convincingly real. Although, one hundred years on, much of the novel's science is dated and Well's Moon is far different from how we now know it to be, nevertheless, Wells here created a world out of his own imagination, and describes it with such a convincing level of detail that one actually feels like they are there. And the science, indeed, was, in fact, quite up-to-date for the turn of the century. The structure and format of the novel also was highly influential: one will see immediately upon reading it just how much modern science fiction owes to this novel, and to Wells (and yet, Wells himself borrowed prodigiously from previous books on the subject.) The book was originally supposed to end at Part I: Part II was added later by Wells after the book was already in the process of serialization. I think that the addition of Part II is what makes the book good instead of great. If it had ended as it originally would, it would still be a good book - a rousing adventure, an interesting yarn - but it would not be great. The second part makes the book a full-on satire - something that the earlier portion had merely hinted at. It sharply and bitingly satarizes manking and his many follies, particularly war. This addition of satire and borderline philosophy makes the novel a truly great one. I read an essay on this book that said it differs from Wells's earlier SF novels because it is not grim. I beg to differ. The ending, to me,seems quite grim, indeed. Although it does not involve the imminent extinction of man himself as earlier works did, it is nonetheless quite pessimistic and grim. The addition of the second part of the novel and the ending also pave the way for Wells's later works - ... This is a true science fiction classic that deserves to be more highly-regarded than it is.	2002-08-08
US	50002830	R18XDITGSXJTMD	0684841258	579184758	God Knows	Books	4	19	20	N	N	Blasphemy at its most hilarous and biting	Although I would not say that this book is entirely on the level of Heller's first three books (all masterpieces), as it does not, perhaps, resonate with the vibrancy and poignancy of everyday life as those works do, God Knows is nevertheless an entertaining, blasphemous, and laugh-out-loud hilarous Bibilical parody. Many an author has turned their skills to the task of setting a famous Bibilical character into the universe of modern literature and re-telling their story that way, but few have done it with the intelligence, wit, and sheer knowledge of Heller. This is the work of a man that, though perhaps a Jewish atheist (I'm not too sure of what Heller's religious views were), nevertheless clearly had a vast and perhaps encyclopedic knowledge of the Bible - or the Old Testament, at any rate. Here, we have the story of King David (\\"the best story in The Bible\\", as the narrarator himself repeatedly tells us), told through Heller's first-person satiric lens, casting the famous and mythical character straight into the pantheon of modern literature. Many may well consider this book blasphemous (although I am glad, and pleasantly surprised, indeed, to see in some of the other reviews here that members of the clergy have read and enjoyed it), it is all in good fun, and quite an entertaining read - as well as also hitting home at several points. Although there are several laugh-out-loud segments, Heller, beneath the farce, is also asking existential questions, as well as tackling some complex moral issues: God's apparent inclination towards punishing the innocent for the crimes of the guilty is given a good bit of attention here. Although this book may well have some sort of a built-in audience due to it's Bibilical leanings, it probably does not have a more or less universal audience as his first three books did - being steeped heavily, as it is, in its subject matter. I think that you will enjoy the book a lot more, and will certainly find it funnier, if you are familarwith The Bible - or at least the parts that it deals with. Indeed, if you are highly steeped in Bibilical subject matter, you may well consider this Heller's best book. I reccommend it regardles, however: even if you are not knowledgable with its inherent subject matter, you will still find the book enjoyable, especially if you are a fan of Heller's particular style and liked his other writings.	2002-08-07
US	50002830	R1FHI1CAH3HHBN	067973452X	286460989	Notes from Underground (Vintage Classics)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	A stunning penetration into human nature	Though very short, one gets the feeling upon completing this work that they have read a very profound book. This is, in my view, one of the best and most essential short novels ever written. Dostoevsky is known for his stunning penetration into human nature and the social hieararchy, and here we see for the first time what a true master he was. The book, in its brevity, touches upon many profoundly important issues: philosophical, religious, social, political. Indeed, it was right in the heart of what were the prevalent intellectual modes of the time it was written. It remains relevant today. (Indeed, as has been well pointed out, this book works, also, as a springboard towards Dostoevsky's later, more ambitious novels.) Part of the reason the book works so well is because the narrarator (who is never named) is so recognizably, touchingly, and pathetically human. Anyone who considers themselves an outcast, or who feels they've never been able to fit in, who is uncomfortable in social situations, feels themselves to be morally or intellectually superior to others for reasons they cannot even fathom, or who are overly emotional and susceptible to constant bouts of depression - or any such things - will undoubtedly identify and sympathasize with Dostoevsky's creation. Another reason it works so well is because of the way in which it is written. Far from being written in the traditional novel or documentary style, this book gives the impression that one is reading a diary of a person's private thoughts - which gives off the very neat effect that you seem to be reading some private, someting you're not supposed to be reading. We see the thoughts as they come to the character, not in any linear narration. He may well be neurotic, psychotic, manic depressive, bi-polar, or egocentric - but he is human, nonetheless. This is a singular, profound, and important literary work of unique value and craftsmanship that sticks a penetrating and insightful knife straight through the heart of human nature.	2002-08-07
US	50002830	R1JILF6JZXMDYK	038533351X	909389327	Bluebeard: A Novel (Delta Fiction)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	More Kurt	Kurt Vonnegut is one of our most treasured modern American writers, and with good reason. Although it is not one of his masterpieces, Bluebeard is another fine novel from Vonnegut. It's written in the highly caustic first-person style of many of his books, and his writing is just as devastatingly clever as ever. The amazing thing about Vonnegut is that his prose is very simple - almost child-like at times. This would seem at first glance to trivialize the contents or take away from the produndity of the book, but this it does not do. As Michael Crichton has pointed out in his essay on Vonnegut, this seems like a really simple way to write; but, as anyone who has actually tried to do it knows, it is actually much more difficult than it seems. What makes this particular book special is that here we encounter perhaps Vonnegut's most recognizably human character. He has his faults, like all of us, and is a very tender and lovable character (as opposed to, say, the narrarator in Hocus Pocus.) We feel this man's tragedies as we go along. That his story is told to us through typical Vonnegut wit and farce makes it only that much the better. Highly reccommended for fans of the author.	2002-08-02
US	50002830	R2BAKHWNA0XW7S	0140094385	539733955	Amusing Ourselves to Death: Public Discourse in the Age of Show Business	Books	4	14	14	N	N	Turn off the TV and read this	Although George Orwell's 1984 is a masterpiece and a literary classic (and quite possibly my favorite book of all time), Postman here expounds on a fact that is all-too-often overlooked: the \\"Brave New World\\" of our present modern society more closely resembles the one described in Aldous Huxley's book of the same name than in Orwell's classic. Orwell propesied that we would be beaten down by what we hate; Huxley by what we love. This is exactly what television does. And the sad thing is, most of us don't even know it. This is a book that should be required reading in our present \\"Age of Show Business\\", as Postman so succulently puts it. This book is our long-needed wake-up call. Granted, it is somewhat outdated: being published in the mid-80's, it doesn't take into account the advent of the internet (and Postman was clearly wrong about the observations he makes in the book about the potential of the computer.) Nevertheless, this is a real and biting commentary on our present brain-dead society. Aside from shortening our attention spans, zapping our leisure time, and feeding us dumbed-down information in tiny little bite-sized 30-second news segments, television is also doing another thing, something that many of do not realize: it's chainging the very way we think and live our lives. We now live in the Age of Television. It is indisputable. We not only want our education to be entertaining, we expect it - one might even say we REQUIRE it. Aside from any intellectual pretensions which this may bypass, it is degrading our minds to the detriment. Postman hits home when he states in his book that Americans are the most entertained people in the Western World, and the least well-informed. We are led to believe by television news segments (packaged as entertainment, just like the latest sitcom or drama) that we are learning something, when, in fact, we are merely being distracted. As Huxley set forth in Brave New World, the worst form of tyranny (or the best, for the despot) is where you submit to it voluntarily - and you don't even know it's happening. Such is the reality of television. He also points out the fact, which some other reviewers here have failed to notice, that merely turning off the TV does not solve the problem. It has already taken its toll; we are already in its grip. What difference does it make to the TV society as a whole if one solitary person turns their set off? It already affects the way we think and live every day - one might even say it CONTROLS it. This is a very serious proposition, which many of us would take care to notice. The argument seems irrefutable, and there also seems to be no solution. About the only way one can think of us escaping from this predicament is if everyone turns off their TV (you see? - it has gotten to the point where we can't even say the whole word, anymore), reads this book, and wakes up.<br />As a side note, I became aware of this book through Roger Waters album Amused To Death, which was in part inspired by this book. I believe this album to be a musical masterpiece, and reccomend it to anyone who enjoys this book.	2002-07-31
US	50002830	R2HZJKS3U1QEHP	0964700921	128223339	Encounters with Bob Dylan	Books	3	13	13	N	N	Interesting if you're a fan	As the greatest - not to mention most important, in every sense of the word - songwriter of the 20th century, Bob Dylan has, unsurprisingly, inspired a legion of devoted fans. Although every major artist has their share of obsessives and fanatics, the ones who follow Dylan have far surpassed mere \\"groupie\\" or \\"hard-core\\" status: they reside in a legendary status - even mythological. Some of these, branded \\"Dylanologists\\", have achieved a level of notoriety compared in a small way with the artist himself. Many fans know of the famous (or infamous) \\"Garbologist\\", A. J. Weberman, who even went so far as searching through the dumpsters outside Bob's house for his baby's soiled diapers - allegedly looking for clues to obscure lyrics, and even conjuring up a paranoid fantasy conspiracy that the government was out to get Dylan for raising sentiment against the Vietnam War, and that Dylan knew it, and alluded to it, through subtle messages in his songs. Bob Dylan's history is filled with many other such characters and ancedotes. Perhaps it comes as no surprise, then, that Dylan is a very mysterious character, and known for his ambivalence towards fans. Securing a personal meeting with Dylan is a difficult thing to do, and those fans who do manage it are held in a kind of revered awe by the faithful. This book is a record of such encounters. There are many books available on Dylan (certainly more serious and scholarly works than on any other rock musician), but this is just about the only one where the air of pretentious intellectual refinement is removed, and you hear it straight from the mouth of the ones who really matter: the fans. These are the fans personal reminisces of meeting Dylan, or otherwise coming close in some way. These are the normal, everyday fans - people like you and me (although there are certainly a few obsessives - such as the man who keeps a \\"Dylan shrine\\" in his house), although there are a handful of semi-famous names in here as well. The accounts range from revelatory (people being personally invited backstage by Dylan, a record store employee purporting not to know who he is, a man who retrieves Dylan's stolen cap); to hilarous (a fan who meets Dylan in a cafe and asks him a strange question, a meeting between Dylan and a fan in an alley before a concert), to just plain boring and inane. You are hearing these recollections as told straight from the fans - granted, then, the prose is often crude, and some stories are better than others. This, then, is a book you'll want if you're looking for personal, often funny, sometimes touching stories from the fans themselves - rather than pseudo-intellectual exposition from so-called \\"rock scholars.\\" I would not rate this as an essential Dylan book: rather I reccommend it if you are a fan and want a slightly more personal and unique book about Dylan than you normally find.	2002-07-31
US	50002830	R1K53Y05Z9BJQ7	0684839741	635285578	Good As Gold	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Good as gold, indeed.	Good As Gold is Joseph Heller's third masterpiece. Heller, who sadly left us in 1999, was notorious for taking an eternity between books (13 years between his first two.) And, although this may be true, one thing is certain: when Joe Heller delivers a book, it's a guaranteed masterpiece. Every new Heller release is an event. Good As Gold is as good as the best of them. By turns screamingly funny and heart-piercingly true, this is one of the few books that can make you laugh and cry at the same time. The book works simultaneously on multiple levels. It is a fable of \\"The Jewish Experience\\" in America; it is a satiric and highly biting look at the hypocrisy and incompetence at work in everyday government affairs; it is a funny and all-too-sad peek into the lives of the typical American extended family (you could also see the entire thing as an attack on Henry Kissinger - indeed, the only complaint I have about the book is that Heller sometimes follows this tangent too far.) The book, as always with Heller, is very cleverly written. There are no numbered chapters: instead, the book is split into a number of different sections, all with a certain title, which also happen to be titles of works being written by the protagonist (who is, among other things, a writer) - in this way, the book plays out the very story and experience it is purporting to have the main character write himself. An essential read from the greatest American author of the second half of the 20th century.	2002-07-30
US	50002830	RM7BWBAYH6N2A	0802131786	760683206	Tropic of Cancer	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Beautiful losers	This is one of the books that, like Ulysses, has had its reputation as a smutty book expounded so much that you may well be surprised at how lean - with the passage of time - it actually seems in the department. However, you will not fail to be impressed by the beauty of the prose and the sheer forcefulness and clarity of Miller's writing. Although he writes here about the darkest, grittiest, most painfully honest, down-to-earth every day subjects, he does it with a passion and exuberance, and a sheer joy for life. Although Miller was not a man in the best of circumstances when he was living the life the he describes in this book - a life that most of us, surely, would not wish to replicate - he was not a man despondent or dejected; indeed, he was positively brimming over with his joy in his circumstances. Though Miller writes candidly and very honestly about things that most every other book fails to mention - dirt, bugs, feces, sexually transmitted diseases - as long as he had food (and perhaps the occasional lay), he was happy. One may well call him a hedonist, but rarely do we see one embrace life so fully, its warts and all, as did Miller. We are lucky to have the chronicle of his experiences. Immediately famous and immediately banned as obscene upon its release in 1934, one sees, upon reading this book in the present day light, just what a major impact it has had on modern day literature. Aside from opening up a whole new school of literature and a new spector of art with this autobiographical novel, it also became the central point in the famous court decision that changed U.S. censorship laws forever. And yet, aside from its mere historical importance, the book remains vibrant, fresh, and exciting even today. Essential reading for anyone who craves their great literature off the beaten path.	2002-07-28
US	50002830	R2EPTAYOOQGOJ1	0385333900	846837978	Jailbird: A Novel	Books	3	4	8	N	N	3 and 1/2 Stars - Not up to his usual standard	Although Vonnegut's deceptively simple prose and unyielding cynical bent are just as ever-present and by turns caustically, heart-piercingly dead accurate and hilarous, this book ends up falling short of the high standard that Vonnegut had set for himself with masterpieces like The Sirens of Titan, Cat's Cradle, and Slaughterhouse-Five. Vonnegut here has created a protagonist who gets himself somehow involved in pretty much all of the major American historical events from the Great Depression through the Watergate scandal... He accomplishes this with a neat (and sometimes confusing) interweaving of fact and fiction: dropping fictional characters and institutions into real, factual events -... The author's observations are as cynical and misanthropic as ever (and maybe even a little more depressing than normal - as we realize in the end that the protagonist, ruined as he is, is basically a decent man), but it is lacking that Great Underlying Moral that is the heart and backbone of every great Vonnegut novel. He attempts to satarize all of these major events in one book, and ends up doing none of them particularly well - much the same thing that happens in another one of his lesser books, God Bless You, Mr. Rosewater. Still, this IS a Vonnegut, so it can't be all that bad - and it is worth reading if you're a major fan of the author. If you're a Vonnegut fan, you'll want to read this, eventually; if you're a neophyte, you should read some of his other, better books first.	2002-07-27
US	50002830	R1M4U5162VEKFH	0060921056	176874504	Letters from the Earth	Books	4	88	91	N	N	A Mixed bag	This book is probably not what you are expecting. If you are looking for a free-wheelin' adventure story along the lines of Tom Sawyer or Huck Finn, you will not only be disappointed, but most probably shocked. However, if you are looking for an entire book of irrevent writings - as I was - then that's not what you're getting, either. Something less than half of the book (say, roughly, 1/3) consists of deliciously irrevent writings, drained from Mark Twain's pen of bitter ink. The best among these is the title section, \\"Letters From The Earth\\", in which Satan writes back to archangels Gabriel and Michael about his visit to earth and the \\"human race experiment\\", after his banishment from heaven. In these letters, Mark Twain points out various absurtities and illogical assertions and beliefs about human religions, and unflinchingly describes the vanity and hypocrisy of many of its adherents. I was under the impression that the entire book consisted of these letters; however, I was wrong. It is merely the first section of the book, occupying some 30-50 pages. For people who are highly into this kind of writing, however - as I am - it is worth the price of admission alone. There are several other pieces in the book along this line - including the famous essays Was The World Made For Man? and The Lowest Animal - which display not only Mark Twain's essential pessimism, but his very rational mind and hilarous wit. These pieces are an absolutely essential read for the lover of satire: few better examples are to be found anywhere in literature. The rest of the book, however, is a mixed bag. It consits of various pieces from the \\"Mark Twain Papers\\" - a collection of his writings (mostly unfinished) the he decreed to have published sometime after his death. Among these are a few interesting pieces (most of them various satires, several on religious topics), while others are more broadly ranging: everything from a completely improvised tale that he used to put his two childrento bed to an unfinished fantasy piece that the editor seems to attach rather a lot of importance to, but whose actual virtue is somewhat more questionable. These pieces range from vaguely interesting to mildly funny to downright boring. Several would've probably been better served by being included in other volumes, while several should probably have been left unpublished. Still, there are definitely some essential writings in this volume that any fan of Mark Twain - or satire, or irrevent writings, for that matter - will want to read.	2002-07-25
US	50002830	R6GNC9Y20PH7K	0451163966	808414399	One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest	Books	4	4	4	N	N	An American original	One Flew Over The Cuckoo's Nest is an American original, and a true classic of the literature. It is a book that is at once disturbing, tragic, vibrant, hopeful, and poignant. It is a rather complex work, and exists on several levels: brilliant allegory, biting satirical fable, or social, anarchistic, or nihilistic literary masterpiece. The book does not seem to have much in the way of an actual meaty plot - suffice it to say, it is probably more than you expect; it certainly was in my case. I recommend the book to the general reader - although it is not really an easy read (it contains some dialogue which takes some time to get into the flow of), you will probably get through it pretty quickly. This is one of those books, though, that has a deeper and more far-reaching resonance than its mere surface meaning. It has a mood and a mode of foreboding that will stick with you long after you have turned the last page. Although I have not seen the rather renowned movie which is based on this work - and although Jack Nicholson seems like the perfect actor to play McMurphy - I doubt that it contains the wealth and depth of vitality and resonance that this book does. One Flew Over The Cuckoo's Nest is a true classic of 20th century American literature, and comes as a highly recommended read.	2002-07-23
US	50002830	R3M89B0GN4TSW	0684841215	371916423	Something Happened	Books	5	83	104	N	N	An existentialist Masterpiece	The title of this book by Joseph Heller is \\"Something Happened.\\" Another title could have been \\"Life: The Book.\\" This is one of the very, very few books I know that accurately and realistically portrays real life - life as it actually is - warts and all. The book I read immediately before this one was James Joyce's much-touted masterwork, Ulysses. Now, that book can, and has been, described the same way by many, and it is, in many ways, the very last word on realism. That said, it has much in common with this book, and Something Happened is, in many ways, the better book. Classicists and romanticists may well prefer Joyce's novel and consider it downright blasphemy to have it compared with this modern masterwork, but the fact is, this is a very good and much underrated book, and will probably be preferred by post-modernists and existentialists over Ulysses. The book is very long - nearly 600 pages - and does have a tendency to ramble at times - often seemingly without a point. It's written in the style of a first-person narrative, and this is one of the few books where you truly get into the head of the main character. That is the main difference between this book and Ulysses: unlike the latter work, which follows the adventures of three separate characters as they follow parallel courses and sometimes intertwine, Something Happened consists entirely of one character's thoughts and actions. And, since it deals only with other people insofar as they relate to him, it can get a bit solipsistic at times - however, that said, Heller's intention with this book (I think) was to accurately and realistically describe the thoughts in the head of a fairly normal, everyday American male. He does a rather remarkable job of this. The only real criticism of the book I can make is that it does tend to repeat itself quite a lot at times: certain situations are mentioned again and again with little or no variation, often seemingly for no reason - but, as anyone knows, this is, indeed, how most people's minds do work. The main character, Bob Slocum, is not a perfect person - but he is a REAL person. This is not another cardboard cutout character that we see all too many of: this is a real living, breathing flesh and blood character, warts and all - HUMAN, just like us. Many of the situations he finds himself in - both in the workplace and domestically - as well as the thoughts and emotions he finds himself experiencing, will no doubt hit home with a great many readers. Although Heller more than likely constructed Slocum to portray a certain generation of people - the anguished, confused veterans of the war - he is applicable to the Average Joe: he's the true Everyman. Heller seeks, in this book, to answer the real question: What, just what, DID happen, to that great, blinding glow of post-war euphoria? Or, as Roger Waters put it, \\"Whatever happened to the post-war dream?\\" Where's the American Dream? Where's all the sun and rainbows? WHAT HAPPENED? Something did.<br />I highly reccommend this book. It is a masterpiece, and criminally underrated. It's a shame that Heller's reputation rests almost solely upon Catch-22, when he has so many other notable and distinct works, such as this one. As another reviewer pointed out, I believe this book was overlooked by Modern Library when they made their list of the Top 100 Books of the 20th Century: it truly belongs on it. Don't make the mistake of overlooking it.d, how most people's minds do work. The main character, Bob Slocum, is not a perfect person - but he is a REAL person. This is not another cardboard cutout character that we see all too many of: this is a real living, breathing flesh and blood character, warts and all - HUMAN, just like us. Many of the situations he finds himself in - both in the workplace and domestically - as well as the thoughts and emotions he finds himself experiencing, will no doubt hit home with a great many readers. Although Heller more than likely constructed Slocum to portray a certain generation of people - the anguished, confused veterans of the war - he is applicable to the Average Joe: he's the true Everyman. Heller seeks, in this book, to answer the real question: What, just what, DID happen, to that great, blinding glow of post-war euphoria? Or, as Roger Waters put it, \\"Whatever happened to the post-war dream?\\" Where's the American Dream? Where's all the sun and rainbows? WHAT HAPPENED? Something did.<br />I highly reccommend this book. It is a masterpiece, and criminally underrated. It's a shame that Heller's reputation rests almost solely upon Catch-22, when he has so many other notable and distinct works, such as this one. As another reviewer pointed out, I believe this book was overlooked by Modern Library when they made their list of the Top 100 Books of the 20th Century: it truly belongs on it. Don't make the mistake of overlooking it.	2002-07-20
US	50002830	R1HIU525F5WJM0	0679722769	705442339	Ulysses	Books	5	5	9	N	N	Rich, complex, and essential	All I can say after finally finishing Ulysses is that it deserves its reputation - both of them. Yes, it is a masterpiece - and, yes, it is a difficult, at times seemingly impenetratable read. When I finished reading this book and finally closed it, I felt I had accomplished a monumental deed. This is the only book I've ever read - and I've read many (difficult ones, too) - that was an actual physical chore to read. One reviewer mentioned that reading it is comparable to climbing Mt. Everest - many people start it, but few make it to the summit - and, ridicilous as that sounds, it is true, in a way. I'm not going to go into a detailed analysis of this book (that's arguably impossible, anyway), or summarize the plot, or anything like that - there is no plot. Small review forums limited to 1,000 words such as this one is not the place for a detailed dissertation on a book as profound, monumental, and important as Ulysses - doctoral thesises and 100,000 word essays have been written for that purpose by people far more qualified than I. It is not difficult, but impossible to summarize Ulysses: it must read in full. I have done so - it wasn't easy, but I did it. I read Joyce's A Portrait of The Artist As A Young Man first (which I highly reccommend you do also), although I didn't use any annotation or Cliff's Notes, or anything like that. I have no doubt that many of the book's complexities, metaphors, allusions, and ancedotes were lost on me, but I wanted to read the book on my own first. I don't claim total comprehension of his vast and difficult masterpiece; I fully admit that there are many parts of the book that I did not understand. This is no reason to slander the book, as many have ignorantly done. I did enjoy reading the book, however - and felt great joy and a sense of accomplishment upon on reading it - and yes, it IS a masterpiece, and for this reason: this is one of the few, if not the only book(s) ever written that accurately and realistically depicts reallife. There is no plot, there is no \\"story\\" - there is certainly no moral. What this book (I believe) attempts to do - and does - is to portray life in a fictional setting - real life. This book takes two normal people, and describes their day. The cross paths at times - intersect, ramble, and collide - and this book, basically, just shows a normal day in the life of two normal people. This may not sound exciting - it isn't. It may sound boring - it often is. Imagine if you wrote down in a book every single event of your day in pain-staking detail (and there are parts in thsi book where Joyce goes into such detail as to border on mundanity, despite its ultra realism.) Still, it is a brilliant and ingenious literary device - surprisignly unattemped before - and carried off marvelously well here. This book addresses the normal, everyday things that other books always cease to mention: defecation, masturbation, rambling thoughts inside a person's head. Like Portrait, this book contains no quotation marks. All dialogue is written as it is personally experienced by the character; I know no other writer besides Joyce who writes - both dialogue and narraration - from INSIDE the character: you actually feel what it's like to walk around inside a person's head, rather than just witnessing his external actions, like every other book in the world. Ulysses, though a long and difficult read (especially if one chooses to study it), is ultimately rewarding, and I reccommend tackling it to anyone who reads with an open mind. It is a masterpiece, and it is, indeed, the true last word on realism.	2002-07-16
US	50002830	R17474ZM83DHDL	0394759842	364481599	Oscar Wilde	Books	5	23	24	N	N	A Must-Read For Wilde Fans	Oscar Wilde was a man of paradoxes, both a man completely of his time and ahead of his time. He is also one of the most interesting, and tragic, literary figures of all-time. In our age of \\"information quick\\" (though it was the same in his own age), Wilde is often misunderstood (both his life and his works.) It's easy to get a one-sided version of Wilde the writer, or Wilde the man. That is why this extremely well-written, Pulitzer Prize-winning, masterpiece of a biography is absolutely essential for the Wilde scholar or the Wilde fan. Ellman skillfully avoids what he could've so easily done, and what so many other have done: write a sensational, tabloidistic account of Wilde's remarkable and scandalous life. Instead, he carefully, skillyfully - and, not least important, lovingly - assembles a neat balance between the sensational elements of Wilde's remarkable life and his literary legacy. Wilde, whose works are often dismissed (despite being probably the most widely quoted source in the world outside of The Bible and Shakespeare, and despite having his works widely and frequently plagarized) because of his lifestyle, and Ellman thankfully gives him his due here. Thanks to people like Ellman, Wilde's literary works rest now, finally, where they are due: at the top of the pantheon. He also goes a long way towards explaining the underlying motives behind Wilde's seemingly self-conscious descent into oblivion. Wilde, to the casual observer, seems almost to have been on a deliberate mission of artistic and personal suicide, and Ellman goes a long way here towards explaining his motives. As Wilde himself said, his life itself was his greatest work of art - it's very moving and incredibly tragic to watch his spectacular meteoric rise and even more spectacular fall, leading into his amazing decline, disgrace, and exile. One of the most famous men of his time in the 1890's, it's incredible to see how totally Wilde was shunned after his imprisonment. However, with the passage of more than a century - in which tolerance has made great bounds, both for gays and for the expulsion of literary censorship - Wilde's star can hardly be said to have ever shined brighter. Every year brings a new movie adaptation of one his plays (a movie of this book was even made a few years ago), his plays are still being staged, and his books are still widely read and discussed - not to mention that he is one of the most widely quoted invididuals in the English language. One may still well question Wilde's wanton ways and his decision to face the music, even when it was obvious and inevitable that he was going to lose both his reputation and possibly his life - but remember only what one W.B. Yeats has said of Wilde: \\"I never for a moment thought that he made the wrong decision\\" - Wilde, who lavished and delighted in pointing out the hypocrisy of his age and society won the right, by submitting to it, to critize it more. Now, a hundred years on, Wilde - poet, playwright, wit, and martyr to sexual mores - stands as tall as ever, a huge, larger-than-life, towering figure, his wit remaining, as Ellman says, \\"an agent of renewal.\\"	2002-06-30
US	50002830	R15W2TO82YZUJ1	0812580354	77230724	Calculating God	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A slow-building but ultimately rewarding novel	Calculating God is one of those books that you'll probably enjoy, even though it's probably not what you thought it was going to be. Judging by the title, I assumed it was a sort of theological/philosophical satire in science fiction guise. It is in part but rather different from what I expected. The premise is this:  aliens come to earth with \\"proof\\" of God's existence - the fact that they have discovered three worlds teeming with intelligent life and that the periods of life arising and going extinct were identical on each. The \\"proof\\" also gets into fairly typical cosmological arguments, i.e., \\"there-are-so-many-things-in-the-universe-that-are-exactly-as-they-have-to-be-so-therefore-it-was obviously-created.\\" Ignoring fundamental objections for the moment, let us take it as the aliens do. The book succeeds in raising questions through character interaction; the protagonist whom the chief alien relates with is a staunch atheist and Darwinist. For the first time in his life, he has, through the alien, reasons for believing in God. He starts trying to think of reasons NOT to believe, struggling with his faith. Later on, he develops lung cancer, and his faith warbles yet again. The main point seems to be this inherent interaction. However, there are other elements. Unlike most SF authors, Robert J. Sawyer seems very good at characterization. His human characters are realistic and very believable. You'll likely find yourself sympathasizing with the protagonist. This is quite a good book, all around. It starts out in a seemingly very corny way; you'll probably laugh and/or shake your head, and it may turn you off initially. Let me be the first to say \\"Stick with it.\\" It's worth it. The book quickly gets much, much better as Sawyer dives into deeper and deeper issues. The plot is very realistic and believable; in a complete contrast to almost all SF novels, the setting is very domestic. The vast majority of the book takes place at the main character's job, and there aremany scenes with his family; inner-office politics, family interaction, and his struggle with cancer are all major subplots. The ending is fully unexpected, perhaps even a disappointment to some. Sawyer gives an obvious tip of the hat to 2001:  A Space Odyssey - also quoting Arthur C. Clarke elsewhere in the book. Though certainly not on as grand a scale as that indefinable classic, Calculating God is in many ways an updated 2001. There is a definite thematic parallel. Personally, I don't find modern SF all that ripe of a vine, but I do believe this is one of the very best novels to come out of the field in quite a few years. It interested me enough to make me want to read mor of Sawyer. This comes reccommended by a classic SF fan.	2002-06-17
US	50002830	R1KPKJLG5EJ6TT	0679723161	636015448	Lolita	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Some of the most beautiful writing in the entire language	\\"Lolita, light of my life, fire of my loins...\\"<br />Lolita is a complex book. It's one of those books that just SEEMS to have a moral, but you can't quite put your finger on what it is. You'll read the book, love it, admire it - but you'll find yourself asking, What is the point? What is the theme? What was the author trying to say? Why did he write it?<br />The author himself addresses these issues in the shockingly blunt and honest afterward, in which he says that Lolita has \\"no moral in tow\\", and that art, for him, exists only so far as to afford him what he may bluntly \\"call aesthetic bliss.\\" This is one of the novels that you should read for the sheer pleasure of reading. And to be sure, it contains some of the most amazingly beautiful prose I have ever read in my life. I've never come across another book in the English language with such beautiful, complex, heighty prose as this one has. Nabokov himself describes the book - again, in the afterword - as his \\"love affair with the English language\\", not as any kind of moral or ethical book. And you can certainly see his point.<br />This is one of those books that you absolutely should read - and that you will enjoy - but is nevertheless probably not what you expected it to be. Most people - myself included - probably approach Lolita as a story of sexual obsession, or as a book of moral warning. And, indeed, it is perhaps all of these things - and more - but the book is worth reading alone for its sheer beauty. There are very books that you can say this about - how many books would you reccommend to someone just because the prose and words used within are so beautiful that they are a sheer joy to read? Not many, for sure, but this is one of them.<br />An essential read.	2002-06-13
US	50002830	R22HOTF4HMFJOJ	0345324382	208109050	Farmer in the Sky	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Enjoyable early Heinlein	Though not famous - and infamous - for such controversial adult science fiction masterpieces as Starship Troopers, Stranger In A Strange Land, and Time Enough for Love, Robert A. Heinlein initially reached fame as a writer of \\"juvies\\" - science fiction novels with young adults as its target audience. This is one of the first of such books. Consequently, it is not as polished and immaculate as later works, but it is enjoyable, and shows the distinct writing style that would come to characterize his later and better works. This is the work of a writer that showed promise - and is still very readable and quite enjoyable today, 50 years on. The plot of the book involves a subject that was one of Heinlein's chief literary concerns: the population problem of planet Earth. It is the future, Earth is overcrowded, and food is given out on rations. One family decides they've had enough and move to Ganymede. Now, this is a very basic and, indeed, extremely straight-forward plot for a science fiction book - particularly a Heinlein one. Still, as always with Heinlein, it is not the plot, or even the point (though his books always invariably contain a definite and usually obvious moral) that keeps you reading the book: it's the sheer enjoyability of his writing style. Though his prose is neither as polished or as refined and witty as later works would be - you can tell that this was an early novel from Heinlein - but his ultra smooth and intelligent dialogue is ever-present here as always, and is a joy to read. This is not his best \\"juvie\\" - it has some strange points: odd plot twists; an odd relationship between the father and son that I was never quite able to make out - but it is good Heinlein. All of his books are in the end worth reading - purely for the delectability of the dialogue (much like Oscar Wilde in that respect), if for nothing else. This shouldn't be one of your first Heinlein reads; however, if you've dipped your toe quite far into the waters of the man's magnificent oeuvre, then you certainly can't go wrong by furthering your experiences with this delightful and enjoyable novel.	2002-06-06
US	50002830	RGA3E4YMZ3DAK	0684833395	458864358	Catch-22	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Absolutely indispensible	Catch-22 is one of those rare books that absolutely everyone should read; I reccommend it unceasingly to anyone and everyone. Though it is long, it is very readable, and you'll probably go through it quickly because it's so entertaining. Aside from its sheer fun and humor however, is the true message behind the book. It is often cited as being one of the great ant-war novels - and, indeed, it is just about flawless in this respect - but it goes much deeper than that. Catch-22 is really a book about paradoxes, and the sheer (necessary) insanity of modern life. The title itself is now a common - and oft-heard - refrain in the English language, and many might be unaware of its original source. The dictionary defines &quot;Catch-22&quot; as &quot;a problematic situation for which the only solution is denied by a circumstance inherent in the problem or by a rule&quot; - and that is exactly what the novel presents: situations showing the sheer necessary insanity of modern life. (War is one such - perhaps the most obvious - instance, but there are many others. This book offers satire on other subjects as well - i.e., federal aid for farmers.) And could life as we know it exist without this inherent madness? The question might be a lot more difficult to answer than you think. The premise of this book can also be summed up in a phrase from another great author, Fyodor Dostoevsky, &quot;If everything on earth were rational, nothing would happen.&quot; That is what the book tries to say. It is not merely a simple anti-war book, despite what some shallow-headed readers and reviewers might say. I suggest that you read the book with an open mind: it's well worth it. The book is quite hilarous as well - the satire being very sharp-toothed. The book does not have a plot - indeed, it does not even attempt to tell a story, at least not in the usual sense. (Nearly) every chapter is named for a character in the book, and that chapter gradually portrays some of that particular character's crazy antics. Little bits of plot are glimpsed here and there, and then revealed gradually. The book is very non-linear and quite scattershot. It's similar to the way Kurt Vonnegut writes. I reccommend that everyone read this book. Quite aside from its near universal praise and the fact that an everyday word has sprung from it, it was in the Top 10 (#6, I believe) on New Modern Library's Top 100 Books of the 20th century. Put it on your reading list.	2002-06-03
US	50002830	RZ984YCKYZ7UD	0809243245	350436540	Arthur C. Clarke: The Authorized Biography	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Essential for the Clarke fan	As a long-time admirer of both Arthur C. Clarke the man and his fact and fiction, I've been looking for a good biography for quite a long time, and am glad to say I've finally found one. Neil McAleer has done an excellent job, and obviously put a lot of time into research and interviews. This book was compiled from several interviews with Clarke himself as well as with many of his friends, family members, editors, publishers, fellow writers, colleagues, and the like. One is greatful to get such a great glimpse into the lives of science fiction's most famous author, as well as one of the 20th century's most famous visionaries. Truly a remarkable man, Clarke has had an almost unbelievably productive, meaningful, and memorable life. Here we learn about his upbringing and exploits living on a farm in England in his childhood, and through his experiences in school and budding interest in science and science fiction. We then learn of Clarke's going on to join the Civil Service and eventually the Royal Airforce (where he helped with the radar \\"talk down\\" system), and through his college years. We are able to see the development of his writing years, and his active and vital role in the British Interplanetary Society. All of Clarke's major novels and several of his short stories are gone into in detail, and oftentimes we learn of his motivation for writing them, and also something of his writing method. One of the most important and revealing aspects of the book for Clarke fans are the long behind-the-scenes look we get at the making of 2001: A Space Odyssey. We learn of the working relationship between Clarke and Kubrick, and also get a glimpse into the super hush-hush activities that took place on the set. This book covers his career up to the release of his novel The Ghost From The Grand Banks, and a little beyond. It also touches mightily upon his non-fiction writing, as well as his many other and less celebrated exploits - lecturing, popularizing of communications, diplomatic interests, and the like. We learn a lot about Clarke's vital role in the establishment of communications satellites. This is quite simply an essential book for Clarke fans, with much knowledge held within it to put across and share. The only real drawback to it is that it does only go up to 1992, and thereby misses out on some important events in Clarke's career (the release of further books, including his final novel, 3001, his collected stories and essays, his knighthood, the unfortunate (and falsely alledged) accusations of pedophilia against him, and the actual coming of the year 2001, just to name a few.) Still, this is by far the most comprehensive and thorough book about Arthur C. Clarke available. Obvioiusly, as with any biography, it's not a book you'll want to dive into unless you are already familar with the author and his works. If you are, though, then this is an essential volume to add to your collection.	2002-05-29
US	50002830	RGL2XCJZAOFMO	0806523794	67682972	The Minority Report and Other Classic Stories	Books	4	16	19	N	N	Unbelievable	Although these are not necessarily Philip K. Dick's best short works, they are necessary reading for every fan. As the writer in the introduction says, the reason I read PKD is because he has that oddest and most unique of all virtues in a writer - strangeness. You'll be hard-pressed to find stories stranger than this anywhere. As PKD himself says in the notes section at the end of the book, he often sold his stories to the flexible SF magazine Galaxy, as the more famous Astounding and its editor, John W. Campbell, considered his stories \\"nuts.\\" Also, this notes section is very interesting for other reasons: it becomes apparent in reading them that these stories have much deeper meanings than they at first appear to have. It is quite entertaining enough to read them for their sure strangeness - you will laugh out loud often reading PKD - mostly at the dialogue, which you'll be hard-pressed to determine whether it is entirely unreal, or more real than most. However, deeper and more profound themes were always resonating at the bottom of the well of Philip K. Dick's stories. Although he was quite consistent and extremely prolific with his writings, some of his stories were definitely better than others. Still, everything the man ever wrote is worth reading. This particular collection contains some of his best - and most interesting - shorter works. Covering the period from 1954-1964, we get such classic stories as The Minority Report, an all-time classic SF story; The Unreconstructed M, a dramatic story of spine-tingling SF suspense; and many others - classic stories, profound stories, and just plain weird stories. This is some of the best science fiction published since the Golden Age of Heinlein, Clarke, and Asimov. Essential reading for any fan of science fiction, or of off-kilter writing in general.	2002-05-26
US	50002830	R2WIVM82WO7I8X	0345328116	342043542	Starman Jones	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Not his best, but still great	Many people still maintain - even today - that the legendary Robert A. Heinlein's best works remain his \\"juvies\\" - the books he wrote for teenagers during the 1950's. And they definitely do have a point. The books may have been written with that demographic in mind, but they can be enjoyed by anybody. They're universal. Although there is nothing ground-breaking in this novel - and it is even, for Heinlein, arguably formulatic - it is still a fun read. Heinlein's writing style is such that anything - and I mean ANYTHING - he writes is worth reading, and furthermore, will be entertaining. His dialogue is always top-notch - some of the cleverest writing since the heyday of Oscar Wilde - and it makes all of his books breezy and fun to read through. This is no exception. Although I would not say that this is one of his best juvies, it is still quite a good one. I think it IS a good book for a young science fiction fan to start out on, too, especially; it portrays a normal, everyday kid - indeed, a hillbilly - who fulfills his dream of going out into space. It has a good moral, and there's a heart - a solid foundation - to the book. Coupled with Heinlein's always engaging dialogue and sheer narrative drive, this book is a wonderful read for all ages.	2002-05-26
US	50002830	R1DR0WJH1DM5RK	0806512768	540997573	The Collected Stories Of Philip K. Dick Volume 4: The Minority Report (Citadel Twilight)	Books	4	12	13	N	N	Unbelievable collection	Although these are not necessarily Philip K. Dick's best short works, they are necessary reading for every fan. As the writer in the introduction says, the reason I read PKD is because he has that oddest and most unique of all virtues in a writer - strangeness. You'll be hard-pressed to find stories stranger than this anywhere. As PKD himself says in the notes section at the end of the book, he often sold his stories to the flexible SF magazine Galaxy, as the more famous Astounding and its editor, John W. Campbell, considered his stories \\"nuts.\\" Also, this notes section is very interesting for other reasons: it becomes apparent in reading them that these stories have much deeper meanings than they at first appear to have. It is quite entertaining enough to read them for their sure strangeness - you will laugh out loud often reading PKD - mostly at the dialogue, which you'll be hard-pressed to determine whether it is entirely unreal, or more real than most. However, deeper and more profound themes were always resonating at the bottom of the well of Philip K. Dick's stories. Although he was quite consistent and extremely prolific with his writings, some of his stories were definitely better than others. Still, everything the man ever wrote is worth reading. This particular collection contains some of his best - and most interesting - shorter works. Covering the period from 1954-1964, we get such classic stories as The Minority Report, an all-time classic SF story; The Unreconstructed M, a dramatic story of spine-tingling SF suspense; and many others - classic stories, profound stories, and just plain weird stories. This is some of the best science fiction published since the Golden Age of Heinlein, Clarke, and Asimove. Essential reading for any fan of science fiction, or of off-kilter writing in general.	2002-05-26
US	50002830	R770SJLXLVT1E	0806512768	540997573	The Collected Stories Of Philip K. Dick Volume 4: The Minority Report (Citadel Twilight)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Unbelievable collection	Though these are not necessarily Philip K. Dick's best short works, they are essential for fans. Like the writer of the introduction, I read Dick because he has the oddest and most unique of all writing virtues - strangeness. You'll be hard-pressed to find stranger stories than these. As Dick himself says in the notes, he often sold to the flexible science fiction magazine Galaxy, as the more famous Astounding and its editor, John W. Campbell, considered his stories \\"nuts.\\" The notes are also very interesting for showing that these stories have far deeper meanings than may be first apparent. It is quite entertaining enough to read the stories for their pure strangeness; you will often laugh aloud when reading Dick, mostly at the dialogue. However, deeper and more profound themes were always resonating in Dick. Though generally consistent and extremely prolific, some of his stories were definitely better than others. Still, everything he wrote is worth reading.     This collection has some of his best and most interesting shorter works. Covering 1954-1964, we get such classic stories as The Minority Report, an all-time SF classic; The Unreconstructed M, a dramatic story of spine-tingling SF suspense; and many others - classic, profound, and just plain weird. This is some of the best SF since the Golden Age of Robert A. Heinlein, Arthur C. Clarke, and Isaac Asimov. It is essential reading for any fan of SF or generally off-kilter writing.	2002-05-26
US	50002830	R2EVHS0YQ3ZXI8	0004723724	517434245	Collins Complete Works of Oscar Wilde	Books	5	118	123	N	N	Essential Oscar	Oscar Wilde was a self-described man of paradox. He was, simultaneously, a man very much of his time, and also very ahead of his time. He was a highly moral man who wrote clever epigrams about how good it is to be wicked (\\"Wickedness is a myth invented by good people to account for the curious attractiveness of others.\\") He was a happily married man who happily loved his two children but also led a gay life on the side and wrote hilarous satires of love and marriage (\\"Men marry because they are tired; women, because they are curious: both are disappointed.\\") This huge book, which contains practically everything that Wilde ever wrote, shows the man in all his glory. After the introduction by his son, we are first launched into Oscar's stories. His one novel, The Picture of Dorian Gray, is a classic and a masterpiece. A devastating moral tale, this one deserves to be in everyone's library. His shorter pieces, however, are of a more questionable quality. Consisting mostly of moral ancedotes dressed up in the thinly-veiled guise of fairy tales for children, these works are the least exciting part of Wilde's oeuvre and of this book, and seem to lean heavily on his oft-spouted crutch of \\"Art for Art's sake.\\" After the stories, we meet Wilde in the guise he was destined for: that of a dramatist. His play were an integral and ackwnoledged part of his genius, and their influence upon modern drama was enormous. His type of high, farcial \\"drawing room\\" comedy has left a permanent mark on the stage. It is easy to see how even the modern Hollywood sitcom sprung from these plays of Wilde's. However funny and biting the satire may be, though, the high point of Oscar Wilde's plays was always his epigram-laced dialogue - whatever the plot may be. Probably the finest - and most biting - aphorist the English language has ever produced, Wilde is probably quoted - whether people realize it or not - more often than any other source in the language, aside from The Bible and Shakespeare. The Importance of Being Earnest and Salome are his ackwnoledged masterpieces, but other plays - such as A Woman of No Importance and An Ideal Husband - are very good plays as well. He also has some very fine and underrated less original works, such as The Duchess of Padua that are quite well worth reading. From here, we move into Wilde's poems. Although, as he himself admits, they sometimes contain \\"more rhyme than reason\\", there is no doubting that Wilde was a master of language, and a fine poet. He won the Newdigate Prize for Poetry while at Oxford, and his \\"Ballad of Reading Gaol\\" is one of the finest poems in existence. What's left are his essays and letters. The most famous of them - indeed, one of the most famous letters ever written - is De Profundis, his strangely moving and tragic love/hate letter to Lord Alfred Douglas from prison. This is a shocking and immensely moving piece of work, and deserves to be read by one and all for its unique look into the human psyche - particuarly that of a man under intense suffering, and possibly on the brink. The letter is fascinating, and should put a different spin on Wilde than many people inaccurately have of the man - he was obviously of a very high moral character. Several interesting essays are also included - among them are The Critic As Artist and The Decay of Lying, two masterful pieces of Plato-istic dialogue, putting Wilde's severe wit and intimidating intellectualism on full display for all to see. One may wonder how much he actually believes of what he writes, but what he writes is brilliant. Another interesting essay is The Portrait of Mr. W.H., in which Wilde puts forth an interesting and unique theory about Shakespeare's sonnets. Also, while Wilde was not generally known for his political opinions, it is quite interesting to read his essay on political and social reform, The Soul of Man Under Socialism, as well as two letters he wrote about proposed reformations of the prison system.<br />All in all, thisis a collection of masterful writings from one of the most tragically overlooked and underrated writers in the whole of literature. As another reviewer has pointed out, while Wilde rarely gets the credit he deserves for his work - and is often ignored, overlooked, or simply dismissed - his works are also widely and frequently plagarised - not to mention quoted legitimately - and were obviously extremely influential. You owe it to yourself to read the man's writings if you are not familar with his works; I guarantee you you won't regret it.	2002-05-24
US	50002830	R1JBF3ME9AGLRL	1570761035	375674123	The Ballad of Reading Gaol	Books	5	8	8	N	N	One of poetry's great masterpieces	Essential for any lover of great poetry, and certainly for any fan of Oscar Wilde is his great poem, \\"The Ballad of Reading Gaol.\\" Scarcely the only thing he wrote after his return from his notorious 2-year prison term, The Ballad of Reading Gaol is a moving and tragic account of one man's suffering. One could go on and on - writing hundreds of pages in essay form - about the indignities and injustices of prison life, but this goes toward saying it much better than any ivory tower intellectual argument ever could. Wilde, winner of the infamous Newdigate Prize For Poetry at Oxford University, had long been an immaculate poet - an a born writer - but he practically anandoned the form after his marriage and the start of his career as a playwright in the early 1890's (aside from that strange amalgram of a poem, The Sphinx.) And yet, this is almost exclusively the only thing Wilde wrote after his release before his untimely death in 1900. Thankfully, the great artist went out with a bang. The Ballad fuses some of the best and clearest writing I have ever read in the English language with a poetic sensibility and a true and tragic sense of real suffering, thereby creating one of the great poems of all-time.<br />Many anthologies of Wilde's writings are available, and perhaps buying a book that simply includes this lone poem is questionable. I definitely suggest that you go for a Complete Works if you are new to the author; however, if you'd like a travel-worthy copy of certain smaller works - such as this poem - then editions such as this will serve you well. Besides, this edition has as well those beautiful paintings to go along with it - something I'm sure Oscar himself would've loved.	2002-05-21
US	50002830	R2C937V2B43CSU	0679783210	744390498	De Profundis (Modern Library Classics)	Books	5	17	18	N	N	Strangely moving	One of the most famous - and infamous - letters in all of literature, De Profundis is a strange little piece of work: either much more than it appears on the surface, or much less. It is something I think everyone should read, if only for its insight into the human character, particularly that of one under great personal suffering. Wilde wrote this extraordinarily long letter from prison to Lord Alfred Douglas, his friend, lover, and the man who - by all accounts - was the reason Wilde was in jail in the first place. Despite repeated assertions in the first few pages alone to the contrary, Wilde seems reluctant to blame himself. He clearly blames Douglas to the hilt, and harbors a certain bitter resentment towards him. And yet... he clearly still hold much dear affection toward - and even loves - Douglas. He still seems to be asking for forgiveness - despite the fact that, by all accounts hardly excluding his own, he was the man wronged. It is quite clear from reading this letter that, desite the view history holds of him, Wilde was clearly a man of very high moral character. Certainly, one would not put Wilde atop a pedastal as the zenith of ethics - he himself says that morals contain \\"absolutely nothing\\" for him, and clearly admits - and is proud of - his having lived the high life to the hilt during his youth - but Wilde was a man of principles, and he stuck to those principles to the tragic, bitter end. Perhaps you might say he carried them too far. One gets the sense in reading this letter - or a biography of Wilde - that, not only could he have stopped his immiment imprisonment, but could have severed his ties with Douglas completely - had he wanted to. Apparently, he had his own utterly compelling reasons for not doing so. Whatever the case, Oscar Wilde is one of the most fundamentally and perpetually interesting characters in the whole of history. A self-described man of paradoxes - Wilde was subsequently the true essence of his time, while also being far ahead of his time - De Profundis makes for required reading by one of the most endlessly fascinating individuals you'll ever read about, and also provides a startling - indeed, perhaps too much so - insight into human nature.<br />De Profundis, though long for a letter, is not a long work in the conventional sense. Consequently, as many editions of Wilde's collected works are available, buying this on its own may be deemed questionable. I highly reccommend purchasing a Collected Works of Oscar if you have not done so already - it's well worth the price - but, should you desire to have more compact editions of specific works, an edition such as this will be privy to your needs.	2002-05-21
US	50002830	R2RXQWXHWG2MJH	0375421874	364727378	The Minority Report	Books	3	29	35	N	N	Shameless Cash-In	The Minority Report is one of Philip K. Dick's masterpieces, and one of the greatest science fiction stories ever written. It is tightly-written, action-packed, and fast-paced - everything one could ask for in adventure SF. So why the low rating? Well... it's just a short story. I'm not sure of the exact length, but it's something along the line of 30 or 40 pages. What this edition attempts to do is fluff the book out with a bunch of screwy packaging, filling it out to a somewhat respectable book length. What it is, obviously, is a cheap and sorry attempt by the publisher to cash in on the recent Spielberg movie based on this story. Now, the story itself is certainly great and essential; I highly reccommend you read it if you have not already. However, there are much better (not to mention more economical ways) of acquiring it. The also recently-released book \\"The Minority Report and Other Classic Stories\\" or the older \\"Philip K. Dick Reader\\" both contain The Minority Report, as well as a series of other worthwhile stories. You would be far wiser to purchase one of those books than this cheap piece of marketing.	2002-05-17
US	50002830	RUJ3FNRIBJRU8	0156005050	95435903	Blameless in Abaddon	Books	5	18	18	N	N	A Satiric Masterpiece	I must admit to being a little disappointed with the first book in James Morrow's \\"Godhead\\" trilogy, Towing Jehovah. It wasn't as deep and complex as I expected, and it wasn't particularly realistic or effective as satire. This, the second book in the trilogy, however, is absolutely a great masterpiece. One of the best theological satires I have ever read - this ranks up there with Vonnegut's Cat's Cradle, Twain's Letters From The Earth, and Heinlein's JOB. Morrow obviously put a TON of work and research into the writing of this book, and he should be commended for it. Not only does he posit - and offer a counter-argument to - most of the major theories for and against the existence of God, but also those of theodicies, and tackles such uninviting, thankless, and complex questions as the root of evil, the benevolent Creator, the problem of existence, among other such savory topics. It is almost incredible the amount of information that Morrow is able to cram into this book's 300 pages - you'd have to read several volumes worth of philosophy, theology, and fiction to come close to enduring all the topics that this book touches upon. It is very, very well written as well. Morrow has obviously matured much as a writer. Whereas Towing Jehovah was filled with screwball characters who were hard to follow and relate with, all the characters in Blameless In Abaddon are very well sketched - and many of them are simply hilarous. The book is great satire. It's one of the funniest books I've ever read, as well. It's very, almost astonishingly, well done. This book is everything that Towing Jehovah wasn't. I strongly, strongly reccommend it - my highest reccommendation.	2002-05-08
US	50002830	R1ET7UTNOXDFYV	0156002108	367931854	Towing Jehovah (Harvest Book)	Books	4	5	7	N	N	Excellent premise, questionable execution	Towing Jehovah has one of the best starting points for a plot that I have ever seen: GOD IS DEAD(!) Body's fallen into the ocean. Some dude's gotta go get him out. When I first heard about this book, I was almost overcome with giddy excitement.<br />Unfortunately, this book doesn't go about the story in the way that you might expect. The \\"dead God\\" angle is actually secondary to the human interest part of the story - which is as it should be, some might say, but I came into this book looking for a theological satire, not a human story with a dead God as the backdrop.<br />This is not to say the book is bad, however. It is, in fact, quite good. It just may not be exactly what you're expecting. As satire, it falls short of Vonnegut and Heller - and even Heinlein's masterful JOB  - and, while sharp-toothed and biting at times - and even funny at others - it's not the main part of the story. This book offers few outright criticisms of religion - indeed, though the author is a claimed atheist, one derives an almost sympathetic feeling for organized religion and theists from this book by the end of the story. Perhaps the author realizes religion's opiatic theraputic qualities - due to the placebo effect, as one character in the book would say - and considers it a necessary evil. It's not even the sacreligious. Though some parts of the book are absolutely laugh out loud funny - the part where they start cutting up God to make cheeseburgers always makes me laugh, as does the part where the priest and the nun are dancing naked together in God's navel, to the tune of a loud song blaring from the speakers of the Jeep Wrangler that got them there - I truly believe that most theists - though not fundamentalists - would not even have a problem reading this book, being offended by it.<br />Indeed, it brings up some good points. This book is not, as you may expect a critique of God or organized religion - nor is it a theodicy; check out the second book in this trilogy, Blameless InAbaddon, for that. I think it does bring out one very good - and oddly rarely-mentioned - point, though: that of The Bible and organized religon's role in the subversion of women. Womankind's centuries long struggle for equality and their centuries of toil under subversion and the subordinate role under men can be traced back to none other than - Adam and Eve, in the garden. Eve at the apple; God subordinated women to men for the rest of eternity. Thus, from this sprung gender stereotyping, chauvinism, sexual inequality - the whole bit. Why isn't this point brought up more? It seems quite obvious to me. I once wrote a paper over the subject for school. Morrow recognizes this, and brings it out in the book. It is one of the few fairly original points brought out in the book, and makes it worth reading.<br />Overall, this IS a good book, and one that I would reccommend. You might not get exactly what you thought you would get going in, but you will get a good, and fairly thought-provoking read. I will tell you this, too: read the other two books in the series as well. They are a great improvement over this one, and Morrow has certainly grown and matured as a writer.<br />Heartily reccommended semi-irrevent reading.	2002-05-05
US	50002830	RSS1GA6KE003W	0679740678	67210777	The Man in the High Castle	Books	4	19	23	N	N	A very complex book that is not what it seems	Upon first glance, this seems to be a different type of book for Philip K. Dick to write. It's more linear, and has far less screwy elements, than the majority of his work. It was one of the first major alternate history novels, and has been quite influential in that manner, and it also, as the back of the book claims, broke down the barriers between \\"science fiction and the serious novel of ideas.\\" The book seems kind of haphazard after the first reading, and can actually be a disappointment. Being one of Dick's most famous books, and winner of the Hugo award, one might expect more than the seemingly arbitrary plot elements and non-action of the book - not to mention the apparently shabby ending. The book offers no obvious revelations, nor does it give any easy answers. The book, which seems to end almost at random, will, in all likelihood, leave you railing something along the lines of, \\"What?! That's IT?! How can it be done?! What was the POINT?!\\"<br />However, once examined, you realize something: this book isn't really about what you thought it was. I think that the sypnosis of this book that is generally given (the one on the back cover) is rather misleading, as is the one for Dick's novel, A Scanner Darkly. For, the sypnosis that is given has absolutely nothing to do with what the book is really about - much less what it means (also like the aforementioned novel.) Sure, this is an alternate history novel. Sure, in it, the Allies lost the war, and the United States is now occupied jointly by Germany and Japan - sure, sure, sure. That has nothing to do with the book, however.<br />Allow me to explain. Despite what may gleam from the surface of this book, what Dick has actually done here is write another book that asks - in a fashion much more slip-shod and roundabout than usual - the question, \\"What is reality?\\" The book has nothing to do with war, alternate history, or anything else that you may imagine it has to do with. What the book actually does is examinethe very fabric of reality itself. It's almost a cosmic joke - on a grand, realistic level.<br />Look at it. Dick wrote this book, in which resides an alternate history in which Germany and Japan won the war. In it, a man writes an alternate history book in which Germany and Japan lost the war. (Interstingly enough, let me point out something else, too: THIS BOOK HAS ABSOLUTELY NO SCIENCE FICTION ELEMENTS. This fact is appreciated by Dick, who, in describing the novel within the novel, has a character say that it resides in the real of \\"fiction, possibly science fiction.\\" Another character rebukes, saying that it isn't set in the future, and contains no science - elements both necessary for a novel to be considered science fiction. The arbiter refutes this notion, saying that it, like much science fiction, deals instead with the alternate present. This book just gets pigeon-holed as SF because it was written by Dick. Almost certainly, if it had been written by an author who wasn't generally considered and SF author, it would've never been called SF.) However, we find out, in the end, that Germany and Japan actually lost the war in the book, as well.<br />Or did they?<br />Like in many of Dick's other great novels - Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep?, A Scanner Darkly, VALIS - the story starts out strange, and only gets stranger. And, just when you think you've got it pinned down, there is a major twist in the novel that will leave you scratching your head. Dick, at his best, pulls the thinner-than-you-think mat of reality out from underneath your feet at the moment you least expect it, leaving you reeling and questioning the very nature of your existence.<br />Perhaps existence is more arbitrary than we imagine - after all, what IS reality?<br />I think Dick himself said it best when he said, \\"Reality is that which, when you stop believing in it, doesn't go away.\\"<br />...and that's what this book is all about. Not war, not alternate history - but reality itself.Incidentally, I think the whole heavy emphasis on the alternate WWII element may have ruined the book for many people. They went into it expecting something other than what they got, and left it feeling empty, and perhaps cheated. Here's a tip: ignore the back of the book. On any Philip K. Dick novel. It will only lead you down the wrong path. I don't think Dick intended the reader to know that this book was set in that alternate universe going in. It kind of spoils the story; one would be better off - and certainly more surprised - if they went into the book thinking that it was set in our time, and slowly realized the differences - and then back again... thinking, Maybe it's not SO different, after all...<br />Ultimately, this book does have a few problems. It's not perfect, and it's not Dick's best. However, it is a very interesting read - much more than it seems on the surface - and one that anyone should read. If you are a first-time Phil Dick reader, I advise you to start elsewhere - Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep? or VALIS, for instance - but you will want to read this one, eventually: it's an essential book for any Philip K. Dick fan.	2002-05-01
US	50002830	RJ5YY7EJW06T6	0679736654	738686232	A Scanner Darkly	Books	5	8	13	N	N	Powerfully harrowing	Philip K. Dick has a very unique and distinctive writing style that is, quite simply, great and revolutionary. I am surprised that his name as a writer is not more often heralded. His work - the Hugo award for The Man In The High Castle, non-withstanding - went largely unnoticed during his life - relegated to a cult existence, at best - and critical ackwnoledgement was all but nil. Since his death in 1982 - and thanks in no small part to several blockbuster Hollywood pseudo-science fiction films since based on his works - his reputation has increased greatly, critical acceptance has garnered, his books (many of which were sadly missing) are now back in print, and are now more widely accepted and loved, and a certain area of scholarship has even built up around them. His prose is extremely unique - very direct and brute - even brash - he has some of the most realistic dialogue you'll see in all fiction. He pulls no punches. Though not a literary stylist, PKD writes for the common man - or, rather, the uncommon man. It has been said the the hippie generation produced no great American writers, but that Philip K. Dick obviously is. He is the very essence of the counterculture. Although not dated, his books propogate all the themes that were of major concerns to the people of the time: highly subjective paranoia, drugs, drugs, and more drugs, and the Big Questions. The book A Scanner Darkly is many things. One of the more obvious things it is is a blunt, bleak portrayal of the simple realities of drug use. Dick neither condemns nor idolizes drugs, but simply shows what really happens when you use them. He passes no judgement. Dick, himself an addict, knew that drugs themselves are neither good nor bad: it's what you do with them, in the end, that counts. Much like knowledge, drugs are themselves neutral; it's when people use them as an excuse to act like a jerk that problems arise. This is what the book tells us. It also tells us one of the reasons that people use drugsin the first place, and the pre-dominant reason for the escalation in their usage in the 60's: a dissatisfaction with society - static, stolid, and unchanging - a need to move beyond the mundane, the everyday, the normal, the \\"right.\\" Dick says it all in the author's afterward, in which he says that the people of that time - users - were punished - finally, in the end - but punished too hard... all they wanted to do was \\"play in the street.\\" A very subjective and debatable stance to take to be sure, but one that resonates. Dick is not making excuses: he is merely telling it like it is. You can blame it on everything else - drugs, society, your hometown, your friends, your parents, the President, Big Brother, the government, the Men In Black - all you want to; reality won't budge. In the end, it's still your decision, your responsibility. Dick sizes up the situation well when he says, in the afterward, that \\"Drug abuse is not a disease; it is a decision... like the decision to step out in front of a moving car. You would not call that a decision, but an error in judgement.\\" As I said before, Dick is not heralded enough in his work. He is truly a great author, and wrote masterpieces. His works aren't as readily available as those of author science fiction authors; and, sadly, when the names of great SF writers are being mentioned, his name doesn't come out as often as it should. Of course, part of the reason for this is that Dick wasn't really science fiction at all. True, his early work was basically science fiction (as were his short stories), and he continued to use SF themes and backdrops throughout his career; but, essentially, he was a mainstream writer. He dealt with themes that concern all people. He was continually marketed as an SF writer thrhoughout his career - and continues to be - mainly for the reason that his books are simply too crazy to be considered anything else. His books aren't easy to read: they deal with profound themes, and are not often written smoothly. This book has very little actual science fiction in it. He's obviously not a \\"hard\\" science fiction writer; stringent fans of the genre might not consider him to be one at all. It is simply that he has fantastic elements in his story to back up his gargantuan ideas. This book is essentially about drugs, in all their aspects; it is not about machines, or anything else. It is, though, quite simply, a masterpiece. Anyone could enjoy this novel, and everyone should read it. Forget science fiction, forget the name - just read the book. It's a masterpiece; you won't regret it.	2002-04-27
US	50002830	RVHSO4YCJWDB	0140390464	474714897	The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn: Revised Edition (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	A masterpiece of American literature	Huckleberry Finn is truly a classic, and an indispensable part of the American literary canon. I put off reading the book for many years because I had - a many of you may have - an inaccurate preconception of the book: i.e., \\"I don't like that kind of country humor\\", or \\"I don't like those old-fashioned novel\\", or \\"I just don't like that kind of book.\\" If you yourself have this kind of feeling about the book - let me assure you, friends, you should READ THIS BOOK. It is much, much more than that. It is a rich, stunningly accurate portrayal of the pre-Civil War South. It is also an enduring portrait of childhood. It is, quite simply, a masterpiece. Huck Finn is a character that, no matter who we are or how far removed from him we are, we can all relate to. It is also, in its use of particular American dialect, a very influential book. A quote you often see is the one Ernest Hemingway himself made about this book being the very archetype of the American novel. And it is true. Tom Sawyer was the first step, but this book is the culmination - it is the masterpiece. It is here that American literature found its voice, and stepped out from under the shadow of its neglected step-child relationship with English literature. It has a voice distinctly its own - distinctly American, and couldn't have come from anywhere else - and its immense influence on subsequent American lit is enormous, and cannot be overestimated. It is an absolutely archetypal novel. Also, its heroic portrayal of slavery was a very immediate thing as well. Its influence on such writers as Alice Walker and John Steinbeck - as well as, in some form, literally all great literature to come out America since - is profound. For this reason, and for its sheer adventure and narrative drive, it is an essential read for simply everybody.	2002-04-18
US	50002830	R2NXVV6A0TKVQK	0140390839	474714897	The Adventures of Tom Sawyer (Penguin Classics)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	American treasure	This book - along with its sequel, The Adventure of Huckleberry Finn - are treasure of American literature, and have added immeasurably to the lexicon of popular fiction. You can see in this book the incredibly wide influence it permeated: countless images that are prevalent in it are now commonplace not only in literature but also in television - and, indeed, everywhere. So much so that, if you are just now reading this story, you may find it hackneyed and cliched. And it certainly can seem that way... but what you have to realize is that this is the book where those very cliches were CREATED. The book is simply that influential. It's a timeless, universal tale. Although it may have been reading mainly for children, it can - and should - definitely be enjoyed by everybody. The imagination in the writing and the sheer adventure and narrative drive of the story will fascinate children of all ages, and may very well spark an early love of reading in their lives. There is a reason why Tom Sawyer is one of the most widely prevalent works of literature among young children. However, the book exists on a whole other level. The character of Tom Sawyer symbolizes the child in us all - what we once were, or what we'd like to be - again, perhaps - and the innocence that we have all so irretriably lost. The book also has, as is always the case with Twain, a masterful wit prevalent in the writing. Keen observations on society and human nature - not to mention the none-too-subtle comments on religion and superstition that are in this book, and rarely noted (the book is quite a good satire of religion in its own way - completely different from the way Twain later did it in works like Letters From The Earth) - and contains many bits of wit and interlaced commentary that will surely be lost on younger readers, but which older and more perceptive readers will enjoy immensely. The book exists, and is excellent, on many different levels. This is truly an American classic, and an essential read.	2002-04-14
US	50002830	R23BUZPCMAXIZI	0375751513	317139448	The Picture of Dorian Gray (Modern Library Classics)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Quite riveting	The Picture of Dorian Gray is a masterpiece of English literature from the 1800's. It's easy to see why the book aroused so much controversy when it was released, and why it had an integral role in Wilde's subsequent imprisonment: the moral dilemna the book presents is disturbing even today. Wilde was truly a great writer; it's obvious from reading this book. Not only was his wit top-notch as is often ackwnoledged, but his prose is very smooth and polished, very refined. Wilde's attitudes towards art are well-known - indeed, he says in the book's introduction that \\"all art is quite useless\\" - but it seems obvious now that he was a natural talent. I hesitate to say things like He was meant to be a writer, but it certainly seems true of Wilde. This is one of the books that shakes our moral foundations. Wilde's high-class lifestyle is well-documented - it seems his surname was utterly appropriate - and one can definitely see where the plot and perhaps some of the details of this book came from his own experience. Undoubtedly, the main premise of the novel - a man selling his soul for eternal youth - most likely sprung from a desire that Wilde himself expressed. Perhaps he was having doubts about his hedonistic lifestyle even when this book was written, several years before his imprisonment. One can conjecture all one wants, but the fact remains that this book is a marvelous piece of work. The wonderful, polished prose is a joy to read - with aphorisms abound - and I, for one, see it as a deep regret that this was the only novel Wilde ever wrote. We missed out on a lot of great literature, especially with the general disdain the plays are now looked upon with in our society. Alas, read this masterpiece, and you will miss out less.	2002-04-07
US	50002830	R2943P0UCQZ0UW	068419211X	862123538	Time for the Stars	Books	4	7	8	N	N	One of his more interesting juveniles	This is, in some ways, Heinlein's most ambitious juvenile. Most of his juvies are great, fast-paced, somewhat light-hearted adventure novels, but this one is somewhat more serious. There's enough action to keep anyone interested, to be sure, but the main part of the novel - the meat - rests with psychological extrapolation and pontification. This is the most deeply psychological novel that Heinlein ever wrote, including the supposedly more advanced &quot;adult&quot; novels. The story involves two telepathically linked twins who are separated by a span of light years when one goes off on a space ship and the other must stay behind. Tom, one of the twins, is long used to being manipulated by his brother Pat. This book is, essentially, his coming-of-age story - perhaps it's not as good as Citizen of The Galaxy or Tunnel In The Sky in that sense, but it is still quite good. We see Tom grow up and become a man, having, in the interim, to shuck off the long, dark shadow of his brother and take on the responsibilities of life himself. There isn't as much action in this story as one would normally expect; the heart of the story are the discussions on matters psychological, as well as a lot about relativity, the human mind and epistemology, and such starker matters as the organization of space ships and family politics (we all know Heinlein loved to preach.) This was one of the first books to really show the psychological effects of relativity in practice during long space voyages. We see the twin who goes stay young while the one back home grows old... and what ensues. Ultimately, the slightly difficult - comparatively - subject matter of this book and general lesser reliance on action to RAH's other juvenile books makes this one perhaps not the best one to start with (try Red Planet, Citizen of The Galaxy, or Tunnel In The Sky for that), but one that any Heinlein fan will love.	2002-04-01
US	50002830	R3ORP39JZ2XKTU	0246123060	423670197	Choice of Futures 1984: Spring	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Interesting for Clarke fans	This is not Clarke's best collection of essays, but it is an interesting - and, for him, somewhat unique one. There are a couple of his non-fiction books that everyone should read (The Promise of Space, Profiles of The Future, Greetings, Carbon-Based Bipeds), and this is not one of them, but it will certainly delight fans of the author. It's split into four sections: the first, War and Peace In The Space Age, gives the book its title. This material, which mostly discusses the peaceful applications of communications satellites and other such things during the early 1980's is invariably somewhat dated, and could be easily casually tossed off as outdated Cold War paranoia. And, though this is certainly the well from which the material sprung, Clarke is a great enough writer for the material to remain interesting. He has some nice views, too: there's another instance here of his famous coinage &quot;We will take no frontiers into space.&quot; Another sections deals with, of course, space; this is an intersting take, as it always is with Clarke, and one of the most novel pieces is a bit on the myths and absurdities of space travel: in these, Clarke dismisses common paranoic delusions involved with space travel, and clears up some of its most common misconceptions. Another section is somewhat surprising coming from ACC: it deals with literary subjects. It includes a couple of forwards to books he wrote for other people, including the hilarous introduction he wrote for his agent's book, and a document of his hilarous correspondence with the late playwright George Bernard Shaw. The last section is a series of articles he wrote about his home country, Sri Lanka - these are nice, enlightening pieces. Also, the book ends with an article entitled &quot;The Menace of Creationism; in it, Clarke - one of its most outspoken modern critics - launches an interesting attack upon said subject, invoking the Vatican's views on the subject, and declaring that no Creationist should be allowed to teach Biology or the Earth Sciences in school (surely a rational view.) This could be a fairly controversial piece, and should be read by all those who find themselves in agreement with Clarke's views on organized religion. In the end, you will want to read this book if you are a fan of Arthur C. Clarke; and, if you're not, you won't bother.	2002-04-01
US	50002830	R1Q6CQZEBX6RWP	0684801523	193175702	The Great Gatsby	Books	4	4	4	N	N	American classic	This is one of those books that has become immortal because it perfectly captures an era. The 1920's were perhaps the most exciting decade of the previous century in America (rivaled only by the 1960's), and this book showcases its excesses in all their glory. We see the rich person, and what money can do to you. We see how love can not only change a man's life, but also take it away from him. We see interactions between different social classes. We see how the amounts of excess in the 20's reached such a zenith that people would actually hold huge parties for multitudes of people at their houses that they not only didn't know, but would never even meet. This book, on the surface, is a love story, but it also has deeper revertebrations. It's a tragedy. It's poetry. It's a warning about the false luster of the American dream. The plot in this story is wonderful and perfectly thought out. The writing style is very, very smooth and actually acutely beautiful. It's a beautifully written book - almost like prose at times, but very literate. It's probably Fitzgerald's masterpiece. This is a book that you can't afford to skip over when reading your way through the American classics.	2002-03-30
US	50002830	R118B6ASLZZC69	0812513916	37304381	Requiem: Collected Works and Tributes to the Grand Master	Books	5	24	24	N	N	An absolute must for RAH fans	If you are a fan of Robert A. Heinlein, and have read most of his works, then I reccommend this book unceasingly to you. It has 200+ pages of never-before-published Heinlein fiction (as well as the short title story - one of the man's best, and the one that also shot him to fame.) These include two novellas: Tenderfoot In Space - written for Boy's Life, and Destination: Moon - Heinlein's story version that would lead to the script and movie of the same name. Also included are two stories he wrote for girls (!), his remembrance of the filming of Destination Moon, a short poem, and the text of three speeches he made at the World Science Fiction Convention, where he was Guest of Honor an unprecented three times. Also included is are the proceedings of NASA's Heinlein Expedition, where he received (posthumously) their Distinguished Public Service Medal, their highest civilian honor awarded. This includes a reading of his inspirational piece \\"This I Believe\\" (which I had read at a local meeting of ours) by his wife, Virginia Heinlein, and several short speeches by such people as Tom Clancy and Jerry Pournelle. The heart of the book for many, though, will be the third section, in which many of Heinlein's famous contemporay writers (as well as an editor and a Navy colleague) write their remembrances of the man. It's very poignant and humbling to see world-famous writers speaking of Heinlein in such highly reverent terms - almost as if they were speaking of God Himself. This goes some way towards showing what an incredible man Heinlein was, and what a tremendous influence he had on the field of science fiction. To see Arthur C. Clarke himself - the only writer, along with Asimov, who you'll ever see mentioned in the same breath as the Grand Master - waxing rememeric on the man is a testament to RAH's vision and integrity. Poul Anderson's piece is particularly memorable. Larry Niven contributes the only fiction piece (a small masterpiece, incorporating Heinlein as a major character), and the long defense of Heinlein by Spider Robinson makes for extremely interesting reading. This is an absolute must-read for anybody who considers themselves a Heinlein fan. It's an incredible book, and shows what an incredibly tremendous influence had on the field of SF, and on the 20th century in general. I gladly put it on my bookshelf, and I'm not afraid to admit - as Arthur C. Clarke does in a blurb on the cover - that I cried while reading it.	2002-03-24
US	50002830	RH8HIE143TQPK	0385333811	135167504	Wampeters, Foma & Granfalloons: (Opinions)	Books	4	19	19	N	N	3 1/2 Stars - Vonnegut fans only	Although you'd never guess it from the title, Wampeters, Foma & Granfalloons is a collection of essays, speeches, and reviews from Kurt Vonnegut - along with one piece of fiction and one interview. Certainly, it isn't on par with his wonderful fiction (or even his marvelous non-fiction book, Fates Worse Than Death), but neither does it pretend to be. This is a book for those who have already read most of what else Kurt Vonnegut has written. The reviews are nothing to write home about, though some of the essays are quite good - but his public speeches, as always, make for excellent reading. There is a handful of them in here. The highlight of the book, though, for any Vonnegut fan is his long interview with Playboy magazine that closes the book. It's an essential read for any KV fan. I reccommend this book to those who love Kurt Vonnegut and his fiction, and know it. If you're not familar with this quite amusing author, you should pick up some of his marvelous fiction first...	2002-03-22
US	50002830	RUN07JLTBCZI3	0345238451	946141080	The treasure of the Great Reef	Books	4	10	10	N	N	3 and 1/2 Stars - For ACC fanatics and shipwreck buffs	First off, let it be known that this is not a book you'll want to read unless, a) you are a huge fan of Arthur C. Clarke, or b) you are interested in such subjects as underwaters archaeology, shipwrecks, sunken treasure, etc. This book chronicles an expedition to the Great Basses Reef off the coast of Sri Lanka (then Ceylon) in the early 1960's, of which Arthur C. Clarke was a member. As it turns out, they came upon a sunken treasure ship, and recovered it. It was the first one ever found in the Indian Ocean, and, indeed, one of the few period in the last century. Clarke's writing, as always, is entertaining and witty, and keeps you reading, as the story is actually quite exciting (and has the added novelty of being true.) However, it does get quite dry and bland at times, as when Clarke devotes entire pages to legal esoteria and extracts from other people's writings and speeches. Obviously, it is not one of his major books, but neither is it meant to be. As a documentary, it is quite great. It reveals a major side of Clarke that many people are probably not even aware of. It also has many autobiographical ancedotes that fans will enjoy (it talks of when Clarke first felt the symptoms of his polio, for instance.) Also, there are over 100 great photographs in this book, including 16 pages of color ones. In the end, you will read this book if you are an Arthur C. Clarke fan, or if you are inherently interested in its subject matter. Otherwise, pick up Childhood's End.	2002-03-20
US	50002830	R1B5OQQR34E3F	0312198930	279681961	Greetings, Carbon-Based Bipeds!	Books	5	12	15	N	N	Essential	Before Carl Sagan (whom, one learns, was himself turned on to science through the words of Sir Arthur), Arthur C. Clarke, in addition to being one of the world's leading and best science fiction writers, was perhaps the most important, and most widely read, science writers of the 20th century. He published several books that are classics in the field of astronomy and physics, such as Interplanetary Flight (the volume that turned on Sagan), The Exploration of Space (the first English language boook to lay out the basic principles, and Clarke's first successful publication), The Promise of Space, Voices From The Sky, Profiles of The Future, and many, many others. Unfortunately, due to the somewhat ephermal nature of these works - as opposed to his science fiction - most of them have been out of print for many years. This is a shame, as Clarke's writing brilliance, smooth of prose, elegant wit, and wry sense of humor come through just as clearly in his non-fiction as in his fiction. He has that great talent of explaining difficult concepts in simple fashion, through analogy, metaphor, and other practible devices, while still remaining informative and literate, and without resorting to condescending. Thankfully, this book has solved much of our problems. Many of Sir Arthur's best and most invigorating essays, covering a nearly 60-year period, are reproduced here, in permanent form - and what a beautiful volume it is, too. A lot of the writing focuses on scientific topics, yes - particularly astronomy and physics - but a good deal of the book deals not with science, but with a variety of other subjects. These include Clarke's numerous postings to the Journal of the British Interplanetary Society, Royal Astronomical Society, and various magazines; personal reminisces (including several documentary-style writings on his scuba diving adventures - unlike many reviewers, who have commented that these essays seemed boring to them, I found them quite a good and fun read, and they led me to decide to go back and read some of Clarke's entire books on this subject, long ignored by me for this same oversight); forwards to books by other people; reviews (it is interesting to see how Clarke views certain classic science fiction movies and books, as well as his fellow science fiction authors and scientific colleagues - many of whom are mentioned, and recounted in loving detail (the book includes tributes to Robert A. Heinlein, Isaac Asimov, Carl Sagan, Stanley Kubrick, Willy Ley, Jack Williamson, Robert Bloch, among others... in addition to many mentions of other such notables as Ray Bradbury, Stephen Hawking, Werner van Braun, and many others) speeches, television appearances, etc. Most all of these are informative, many of them entertaining, and all of them readable. Better selections could perhaps have been made, it is true: I would rather have seen more of his incredible 1960's essays from Voices From The Sky and Profiles of The Future (several of which, for instance, describe a future computer network - the internet - before Clarke could possibly have known...) in place of some of the earliest essays in this book, which mostly consist of Clarke's postings to the Journal, and are thus rather vengeful and out of character attacks on various peoples. Still, one cannot go wrong with this book. Of particular interest to ACC fans (who will already have much - though by no means all - of this material, it also includes a lot of autobiographical information on Clarke - and background on the essays - in the form of introductions the the various sections, quite a few pictures of the man (there's an insert in the middle of the book), afterwards, and an extensive About The Author section. In the final analysis, I would reccommend unceasingly this book to anyone who is into Clarke's factual writing, or science writing in general, as well as to anybody who loves his fiction and would like to try some of his non-fiction out. This is a good - though perhaps not the best (I would still reccommend Profiles of The Future as the best starting point for ACC's non-fiction works) - place to start, and a nice companion volume to his recently released collection of short fiction, The Collected Stories of Arthur C. Clarke. It's a fine place to start for his non-fiction in general. However, don't take it as the final word on his science writing, as it doesn't focus specifically on that, and many of his best science articles were left out of this book. If you enjoy this book, and you want to read more of his scientifically oriented stuff, I unceasingly reccommend Profiles of The Future (recently re-published in a beautiful, lavish new updated volume) and The Promise of Space (if you can find it - an out of print masterpiece)... and perhaps Ascent To Orbit: A Scientific Autobiography if you want something a bit more technical. <br />This books comes highly reccommended from me to all carbon-based bipeds.	2002-03-16
US	50002830	R9LYB500D73HJ	0140440046	295639784	Candide: Or Optimism (Penguin Classics)	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Still a good read	As a closet pessimist, I have often come across - and scoffed at - the notion that we live in the \\"best of all possible worlds.\\" The must be so, of course, because the great God almighty is omniscent, omnipotent, omnibenevolent - in short, perfect, and cannot make a mistake. Therefore, all the seemingly needless suffering, trials, and tribulations that are inherent in our world - i.e., airplanes crashing into buildings - are actually for the better, for the greater good, because everything, EVERYTHING - no matter how seemingly cruel and inhumane - is part of the Big Guy's Great Cosmic Plan. Every action has a purpose, and that purpose is (perpetually) benign. <br />All of which is fine, except...<br />Have you looked at the world lately? I have, and, it seems to me that there are, to put it delicately, Several Flaws In This Plan. I watched two airplanes crash into two major American buildings, needlessly killing thousands, and I find it somewhat hard to believe, to put it lightly, that this is the \\"best of all possible worlds.\\" I'm sure most you do as well... or else you probably wouldn't be reading this, now would you? <br />And yet, in the 18th Century time period when this book was written, just such a philosophy was popular (perhaps \\"rampant\\" is a more accurate term) among the heavy, high-brow philosophers of the day. Candide (subtitled \\"Optimism\\") is Voltaire's refutation of the notion. The writing is heavily sarcastic and burlesque - not to mention dark - as any good satire must be. It contains much delicate gallows humor. It reminds me of nothing (and I realize this is an obvious case of putting the carriage years before the horse) so much as our dearly beloved 20th century Doomsday Prophet Laurete, Kurt Vonnegut. Certainly, as this was in essence an ephermal political satire of the time in which it was written, Candide is not, perhaps as technically valid to our present \\"modern-day\\" society as the work of a, say, Vonnegut. As the book is primarily a reactionto the notion in question (that of all-pervading and naive optimism), and not an explanation of it picking its faults specifically (which is to say, it does not explain the nature of what it is refuting, assuming the reader already knows), much of the sarcasm has been lost through the years. One would need a general knowledge of 18th century philosophy to appreciate all the points that the book tries to make. However, Voltaire's main messages are certainly clear enough, and just as valid today as they ever were - and always will be. Read Candide - it's a dark, funny, irrevently hilarous and enlightening satire on man and his naive, optimistic folly and fallacious outlook. Even if you don't like the book - unlikely, if you have already waded through my review this far - I guarantee that you will respect it, and that it will make you think - and, perhaps, get you to question certain notions that you may have held unquestioningly throughout your life. Essential 18th century literature.	2002-03-16
US	50002830	R1QZS33XJL3RA8	0553293362	834333861	Second Foundation	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Masterful end to the original trilogy	I enjoyed Foundation, and Foundation and Empire even more, but Second Foundation is truly the pinnacle of the series, and a masterpiece. Very tightly and interestingly written, it begins with the story of the Mule's search for the second Foundation. This is an extremely interesting portion of the story, and makes for a great, fascinating read. It picks up on the semi-cliffhanger ending of Foundation and Empire, and wraps up that part of the story in worthy style. The second (and lengthier) part of the book deals with first Foundation's search for the said second Foundation. This is truly interesting as well, and the plot goes through so many twists and turns that your head will be reeling by the end! You really have to give it up for Asimov, as he truly wrote it masterfully, tying up nearly every single loosed end in the series, and creating a reel of suspense and intrigue that should be commended on any level. I guarantee you, the last couple of chapters will have you frantically flicking back to earlier ones to look over tiny little points that you may have missed. A truly compelling read.<br />A masterpiece. Read it.	2002-03-09
US	50002830	R12W96DK5XFESC	0553293370	834333861	Foundation and Empire	Books	4	5	6	N	N	On with the foundation	Unlike the first Foundation book, which was a series of related but not inter-connected stories, Foundation and Empire has two longer stories. This lets Asimov flesh out the stories more, adding detail and plot intricacies. The first story, The Big and The Little, is not one of the series' strongest. However, the second story, The Mule, is the masterpiece of the series. It tells of a muntant, The Mule, who falls outside the scope of Hari Seldon's psychohistory as one supremely powerful individual. The story is told in almost detective story fashion similar to the first two Robot novels. It's quite as suspenseful and involving as Asimov at his best and one of his utmost classics. There's quite a lot of plot tangling and twists, and the ending is a shocker. It's not quite a cliffhanger but will definitely make you want to read the next book, which is great also. The whole series comes highly recommended.	2002-03-06
US	50002830	R3KQMPXY9R7GRW	0553293354	834333861	Foundation	Books	4	7	7	N	N	The essence of Asimov	Foundation is a landmark in science fiction, and epitomizes the best of what Isaac Asimov stood for. This book proves that you don't have to have a lot of sex and mindless violence (\\"-the last refuge of the incompetent\\") to make a book suspenseful and a page-turner. The book is entirely without action and romance in the normal sense, and consists almost entirely of dialogue. What makes it so interesting is the ideas (and reversals of ideas) that it presents, in all their aspects, subsequently debates, and solves. It has an aura of almost detective story fascination with regards to political ideas. What is interesting is that the book takes a pacifistic approach to politics, and thereby forces itself to present a plausible solution to occurring problems (say, rebellion, anarchy, and war) without degrading into violence. Each self-contained story (the book is not a novel, but a collection of stories that were originally published stand-alone) is therefore a sort of logic puzzle (much the same, in principle, as Isaac's Robot stories) that you must delve into and accede all its ramifications, and come out with an answer that will work, without using violence. It's a credit to Asimov that he could not only achieve this, but make it interesting, and, indeed, arresting. This is an essential science fiction read, and perhaps Asimov's apex.	2002-03-03
US	50002830	RG1ZDE83IWMT7	0618002251	669379389	The Hobbit and The Lord of the Rings	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Essential literature	There are very, very few works of literature of which I could honestly say that everyone should read. The Lord of The Rings is most assuredly one of them. Such epic, inventive, and downright imaginative storytelling deserves to be read and praised. The writing is immaculate, wonderful, and epic in scope. Tolkien's prose is the smoothest and most beautiful I have ever come across. Amongst modern writers, he is unparalled in sheer storytelling ability and narrative drive. This series belongs with the classics. His prose has that deft touch, which is so rare, where it almost feels like your reading poetry - so beautiful is it - but it is just simply his great writing. Many people refer to the series as an allegory, and many read it as such. Tolkien himself seems not privy to this view: he says he was just writing a story. But the fact remains that, whether you take this series as a metaphorical representation of events of unparalled importance, or merely take it at face value, it is still a masterpiece, such is the sheer storytelling drive. There are very few books that I would reccommend on the strength of the story alone, but this is a rare exception. It is a masterpiece. Your life will be enriched by reading it. Such is its power, its drive, and its simple uncanny greatness that the series demands itself as one that everybody needs to be able to say that they've read. It just screams to be read. Analysis of it is both unnecessary and beside the point: interpretations, personal opinions, and and kind of factual dissertation are irrevelant to the greatness of The Lord of The Rings. It has a life of its own. It has to be read, to be experienced, to believe. If you haven't yet done so, you owe it to yourself to do so now. Your life in reading simply isn't complete if you haven't done so.	2002-02-21
US	50002830	R3O7C90TDBEH8M	0618002243	669379389	The Return of the King (Lord of the Rings )	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Wonderful, wonderful	One might well worry that such an epic as The Lord of The Rings, such a universe as Middle Earth, such a wonderful series of books, could not possibly come to a satisfying conclusion. You need not be worried. The Return of The King is a masterpiece, as is the series as a whole. It brings the epic series to a grand, satisfying finale. You will not be disappointed. The prose is so immaculate; it's almost like you're reading poetry. I find that Tolkien is alone with this gift in modern literature. It is one of the many tenents that makes The Lord of The Rings one of the unarguable masterpieces of recent literature. This will be around as long as any book of fiction. The ending is bittersweet, and yet touching. It's perfect. There's simply nothing like this series. It's immaculate literature. It's wonderous writing. It's the best high fantasy ever written, period. I reccommend that you start with The Hobbit, and then definately read the first two books in the series, before reading this one. It's the only logical way to do it; you definately don't want to jump right into this one without reading those, as it will not make any sense to you. Read this masterpiece in chronological order. This is one of the greatest testaments to imagination ever published in any form, and The Return of The King is the series's essential grand finale. Also, very interesting to the LOTR fanatic, it contains a wealth of appendices and indexes of characters and place names. Such chronicles as the events preceding and following the series are included, as are a history of the kings, several dissertations on the various languages of Middle Earth (you can actually learn to write in, say, Elvish.) This shows just what an amazing and almost unbelievably large and complex complete universe Tolkien created with the series. It's a deserved ackwnoledged masterpiece. A must read for anybody, without a doubt. Long after countless other books of the 20th century fictional canon are forgotten, The Lord of The Rings will remain. Mark my words. You owe it to yourself to read this masterpiece of literature.The Rings will remain. Mark my words. You owe it to yourself to read this masterpiece of literature.	2002-02-21
US	50002830	R3LNKOVFPVMZ7J	0618002235	669379389	The Two Towers (The Lord of the Rings, Part 2)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Magnificent	The second book of The Lord of The Rings, The Two Towers is superior, in my opinion, to The Fellowship of The Ring - a fine book in its own right. This picks up right where that book left off (on a semi-cliffhanger.) The book is broken up into two parts (arguably not the best way to tell the story): the first part concerns the exploits of Aragorn, Legolas and the rest of the Party (sans Frodo and Sam.) This is a fast-moving and exciting part of the book that sets up some important events that come to fruition in The Return of The King. There are several important plot point (and surprises) in this section that would alter the course of the series. The second part concerns Frodo and Sam, and their journey to Mordor with Gollum (!) as their guide. This is a very exciting and dramatic section of the book, and it moves very fast and is a joy to read. I think it's overall better than The Fellowship of The Ring, as it is a great joy to read and very fast-paced - much tighter than The Fellowship, which could move slowly at times. But, of course, the entire series is a masterpiece, and should be read. This book ends on an extreme cliffhanger, so you will want to pick up The Return of The King right after finishing this. The Lord of The Rings is one of the true masterpieces of recent literature, and deserves to be read by everybody. No matter what kind of books you like to read, it is a masterpiece that everyone should be able to say that they've read. And this is perhaps the best overall installment in the series, though they are all essential. Read this masterpiece; it will enrich your life.	2002-02-16
US	50002830	R2GNWDF9IL8N9J	0771021771	185452904	Death of a Lady's Man	Books	3	12	12	N	N	Interesting, difficult to penetrate	While Cohen has never been a very abstract poet, Death Of A Lady's Man (a sly re-titling of his album of the previous year) was perhaps his first foray into more unique poetics. The vast majority of the book, indeed, is not poetry at all (really), but a sort of very loose type of prose. Rather than being the straight up poetry that his earlier volumes mostly were, this is a collection of rants and raves, almost all of them followed by a commentary on the poem, or a type of analyzation. Highly sarcastic. Cohen seems to be analyzing the deconstruction of his former persona (the \\"Lady's Man\\") through a failed relationship with his \\"wife.\\" Pretty heavy stuff. It can be difficult to penetrate at times; and, indeed, you will probably be asking yourself at times if there is any meaning to it at all. Overall, I'd have to say it's not Cohen's best book of poetry (try The Energy of Slaves for that), it is an interesting one. If you're not a fan of him already, this book certainly won't convince you. However, a fan will want it.	2002-02-08
US	50002830	R12YKRKIXUZ32I	0553290525	637463850	Glidepath	Books	4	15	15	N	N	A really good, overlooked book	This book is significant as being the only non-science fiction fiction book that Arthur C. Clarke ever wrote. It was inspired by (and partially, I'm sure) based upon his experience in World War II as a member of the Royal Air Force, using the GCD (Ground Controlled Descent) system to &quot;talk-down&quot; pilots. This is the setting of the story. Though the technology described is not impressive by today's standards (almost 40 years after the book was written, and 60 after the events it fictionalizes), the radar system is gone into in a quite detailed way, and it's obvious that Clarke knows what he's talking about. However, aside from this, there is another reason that this book is significant. Here we actually have Clarke employing a main character (Alan Bishop) as a main character, and developing him. Perhaps this was spurned on by his own personal involvement with the setting of the story, but, whatever the reason for it, this is probably actually the most &quot;human&quot; story that Clarke has ever put out. Those who claim that they can't read Clarke because all of his stories are just complex scientific esoteria that nobody understands wrapped up in a science fiction premise with cardboard cutout carichatures of characters who act merely as set pieces must revise, at least partially, this view of the author after reading this book. We see Clarke develop the character of Bishop. This, indeed, is one of his relatively few books (including among them Imperial Earth, The Songs of Distant Earth, and perhaps The Fountains of Paradise), where a human being is actually the star of the show, and not a machine or an idea. This is a bit of a change of pace for the reader of ACC's fiction, and it is a pleasant diversion. While this is most assuredly not one of his major works, it is an enjoyable read, and an interesting contrast. It balances the technological and human elements of the story rather well. A nice, quick read as well. Pick it up if you can find it.	2002-02-07
US	50002830	RGOIP8KSOB0XK	9998257557	747943917	Writings and Drawings	Books	3	20	20	N	N	Just get "Lyrics"	Though invaluable and unsurpassalbe as far as it goes, this edition of Bob Dylan's lyrics and assorted other poetry has been replaced by (the now equally out of print) Lyrics, 1962-1985. A book like this is invaluable to the Bob Dylan fan: it can resolve arguments, end bets, and settle a worried mind kept up at night worrying over whether a certain lyric went this way or that. However, this collection has been rendered obselete by the publication of Lyrics; the two books are identical, down to the layout, font and text styles, except for the differing front and back covers. That, and this book covers Dylan's lyrics through New Morning, while Lyrics covers them through Empire Burlesque. So, if you're looking for a Dylan lyrics Bible, get that book instead of this one. Of course, if you're an obsessive Dylan collector *looks around innocently*, you'll want to get both, anyway.<br />Note: Being as even Lyrics is now well out of print, and itself misses 15 years of Dylan artistry (including such major albums as Oh Mercy, Time Out of Mind, and Love and Theft), it is time for a new edition of this book. This would also give them the opportunity to include some of the songs that were left out, for whatever reason, from both this and Lyrics (along with such items as the Planet Waves linear notes.) There are various seeming typos and changes (sometimes inexplicable) from the lyrics here (apparently the original ones that were copyrighted), and the ones that were actually recorded. This would be a chance to rectify these as well. And now is the perfect time to release it: Love and Theft was a success, huge with the critics, Dylan's touring his butt off to great raves, thousands are turning to his music for healing in the wake of September 11th, he's nominated for three Grammy awards (including Album of The Year), and there is much talk about him still because of his 60th birthday, previous Album of The Year, Things Have Changed, Nobel Prize nomination, etc. If ever there wasa perfect time to release the book, it is now. Come on, publishers! ;-)	2002-01-31
US	50002830	R37HZMRGVMBUYI	0618002227	669379389	The Fellowship of the Ring (The Lord of the Rings, Part 1)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A true masterpiece	The entire Lord of The Ring trilogy, starting here, is that rare thing so often mentioned in literature but so rarely true -- the undisputed masterpiece. This book shows that Tolkien's imagination must have been truly boundless. It starts the trilogy by recounting the events of The Hobbit, adding and greatly enrichening them, and weaving them into the tale of the Ring. It then goes on to tell of the Fellowship and sets the characters off on their journey. The book is so epic, so wide in scope that readers come away feeling that they have just read a true account, an actual happening from an actual world; such is the book's power. Tolkien has really described the whole world of Middle-Earth and its people in such striking and vivid detail that one can only be in awe. Apart from the striking array of richly drawn characters, a marvel in itself, Tolkien has created languages and entire histories for his characters, Hobbits of course being gone into in particular depth. This is a tale so epic, so novel, so bold that you are bound to like it regardless of your literary conventions. Tolkien's writing is very smooth -- though archaic seeming and a lot different from what we now see, which of course only adds to the marvel and sense of wonder -- and very poetic at times. It almost feels like reading poetry. There are of course lots of actual songs also. Not that the book is perfect. It is a bit overlong, and some parts drag. The walking bits seem particularly slow, as does The Council of Elrond, necessary though it is. There are also too many songs for my taste, ingenious though they are. Still, few books come closer to mastery. This is one of the books that all should be able to say they've read.	2002-01-31
US	50002830	R7BOH3T7AHR87	0671821415	644786190	Voices from the Sky	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Solid collection of essays	Though some of them are dated (inevitably), this is a solid collection of essays from Arthur C. Clarke. The book is divided into three sections: the first is concerned with general astronomy and physics texts; the second deals with communications satellites; the third is a somewhat miscellanous collection of essays. Those of the first type are always interesting, and every book of Clarke essays contains at least a handful of them. In addition to his encyclopedic knowledge of science, Clarke possesses that rare gift: the truly open mind. They often deal with extremely &quot;far out&quot; topics, many of which a lot of people would consider too fantastic to be dealing with (especially at the time the book was published!) But Clarke elicits that childlike sense of wonder in all his readers, as he is a master at explaining difficult concepts by analogy, and sheer force of writing. Much the same applies to the second group of essays, and, naturally, Clarke has a lot to say on the subject of communications satellites, as he, for all practical purposes, came up with the idea. This book, indeed, contains his famous original essay on the subject, Extraterrestrial Relays, for the first time in book form (this concept, and his subsequent work and extensive promotion of it, was the main reason Clarke was nominated for a Nobel Prize.) The third sections contains a somewhat random collection of pieces from the period, including his acceptance speech for winning the Kalinga Prize (for the popularization of science through writing, an award Clarke truly deserved), and a highly amusing piece called &quot;Dear, Sir...&quot; in which Clarke addresses the subject of fanmail, in a truly hilarous manner that shows his often overlooked sense of humor, and the level of his wit. Arthur C. Clarke published many, many books of essays during his remarkable career, and almost every single one of them is out of print. (Greetings, Carbon-Based Bipeds!, a mammoth collection of some of his best writings, was recently put out, and thankfully preserves many of them.) It is worth seeking these books out, as they are some of the best in the field.	2002-01-24
US	50002830	R13GYY2ZLBMPQ	0345340396	381425797	Red Planet (A Del Rey book)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Really good early Heinlein	Among many other things, Robert A. Heinlein is the acknowledged master of what was once called \\"juvenile\\" science fiction. The books are of course just as enjoyable for adults. That's what's so great about them; they are fun, enjoyable little romps for all,  and half a century later, they are still among the genre's best. Red Planet is one of the best. Bearing no relation to the recent (and far inferior) movie of the same name, it is truly original; written when few facts were known about Mars, the Master just let imagination run wild. And we're the better for it. This is one of his more serious juveniles in a way, raising substantial issues including strong morals and associated principles. It also has one of Heinlein's best alter egos -- Doc MaCrae. These issues don't cloud the entertainment as in some later books but give the story a lasting ring and legitimacy lacking in so many similar books by other authors. This is what made Heinlein great, and there are few finer examples of it than this book.	2002-01-17
US	50002830	R1MSA87Y1TV8LB	1560251859	637989498	Don't Think Twice, It's All Right -- Bob Dylan, the Early Years: The Stories Behind Every Song	Books	5	23	23	N	N	Invaluable reference	Bob Dylan is one of the few musical figures from the 20th century that we have truly seen become a legend in their own time. Some would argue, indeed, that Dylan is THE quissential cultural figure of the second half of the 20th century - recording undoubtedly some of the greatest albums ever put to tape, becoming, in the eyes of many, a composer for our times on par with Mozart and Beethoven, arguably the greatest, at the very least most infulential and far-reaching poet of the century, and mapping out emotional blueprints for an entire generation with songs like Blowin' In The Wind, The Times They Are A-Changin', Mr. Tambourine Man, Like A Rolling Stone, and Just Like A Woman. And, although he has since recorded albums every bit as good as his 60's highlights, - not least among them, his magnum opus Blood On The Tracks, and his 1998 Album of The Year, Time Out of Mind - his works from that time still stands as the absolute apex of a culture that was the most turbulent decade since the 20's. Rarely has an artist, at any time, been so in tune with the tenor of the times. This book chronicles Dylan's remarkable 60's period - from his, largely interpretative, debut album through his shocking move to country music with Nashville Skyline. It indeed has the &quot;stories behind every song&quot;, and it avoids stooping so low as to try and convey what the songs are &quot;about.&quot; Rather, this book, much more usefully, gives the background to the songs: how and when they came about, insight into the characters mentioned in them, and what woman, person, or particular muse the song may be referring to, or have been inspired by. There may not be a lot here that Dylanologist don't already know, but it is nevertheless a useful (not to mention beautiful - it's an immaculately laid-out book, with dozens of generous photographs peppered throughout), and nice to have a reference to all these early songs in one place. An absolutely essential book for Dylan fans.	2002-01-11
US	50002830	R1JOGMTRMU437P	0451148959	965958967	Islands in the Sky (A Signet Book)	Books	4	17	17	N	N	Good fun	Islands In The Sky is certainly not on par with such later Clarke masterpieces as 2001 or Rendezvous With Rama, nor is it intended to be. This very, very early Clarke novel is just about the only work in his entire canon that seems to have been written with the teen audience in mind. The protagonist is of the &quot;coming of age&quot; age that is commonly featured in such stories, and Clarke uses this to narrarate the story in a slightly condescending, naive tone that is appropriate for such a character. It's quite different for Clarke, who usually writes in such a philosophical, poetic style. It reminds a lot of Robert A. Heinlein's many excellent juvenile novels. As such, this book, while far from being Clarke's best work, this book serves as an excellent introduction to Arthur C. Clarke's incomparable canon, or to the wonderful world of science fiction.	2002-01-10
US	50002830	R3ABOWFJ2AOYDJ	0312105541	757722318	Tarantula: Poems	Books	4	15	16	N	N	Essential for Dylan fans	Dylanophiles have long tired of (..) literary critics saying that Dylan is \\"not really a poet; this book does something to put the lie to the accusation. It IS poetry, though not in the \\"conventional\\" sense. The majority of the book is written in a style of prose poem/poem/prose poem (repeating the cycle for however long the poem is), and then closing the piece with a written letter signed by some character from Dylan's imagination. As you may have surmised, the prose poems are of the type that Dylan wrote for the linear notes to Bringing It All Back Home and Highway 61 Revisited. And yes, the poems are in the style of the poems that Dylan wrote for The Times They Are A-Changin' and Another Side. Precious little of it is literal; it is almost wholly written in the rambling, seeming stream-of-consciousness style that Dylan introduced in the aforementioned prose poems. He was highly into writing allegerical fables at that time, and this book abounds in them. Dylan fans will certainly enjoy this book a lot. It gives a peak into his creativity and writing process like nothing else really does. This is Dylan unpolished, not buried beneath the stream of re-writes that produced such masterpieces as \\"Visions of Johanna.\\" There are references to many of his songs and lyrics within the poetry - whether this came from those, or vice versa, is anyone's guess, but it's a fascinating glimpse into Dylan in any case. You can get something out of these poems. They are fun to read, and have a quick, rolling meter and cadence that all of Dylan's poetic works seem to have, and this makes for interesting and thought-provoking seat-of-the-pants reading. Dylan fans will revel in it. Probably, those who are not already taken with the author will not be converted by this book. This book is actually a less-than-stellar book in the eyes of many (admittedly, by Dylan himself, who held off publishing it for 5 years), and, though interesting and thought-provoking, it is a very ornate and abstract work, without also offering the insights into life that his lyrics have always offered. So the merits of this book for those who are not already Dylan fans is questionable. On the other hand, it is certainly essential for Dylanophiles, and it certainly is a further contribution from Dylan to the field of poetry, and a more legitimate one in the eyes of many. Here's hoping that it helps Bob win the Nobel Prize for Literature that he so geniunely and truly deserves. It is not a cultural opinion, but indeed a fact, that Dylan did more for poetry than anyone else in the 20th century - at least in the sense of bringing it to the masses. And he certainly re-defined popular music as we know it. This book is a further gem in his canon, and helps show a small part of the reason for why Dylan means so much to so many different people.	2002-01-08
US	50002830	R3DEE0K1GOTP57	042505974X	936918847	Against Fall Of Night	Books	5	34	35	N	N	A masterpiece preceding The City and The Stars	Arthur C. Clarke's masterpiece The City and The Stars (which I'm glad to note is back in print, which is loooooong overdue), is, in fact, an extended version of this early Clarke masterpiece. The City and The Stars is widely considered one of the greatest science fiction novels ever written, and with good reason. And, although I would agree with Clarke in saying that the later novel is the better of the two, this is a certifiable masterpiece in itself. Most all science fiction is, inevitably, set in the future, but this book is set in the far, far, far future. The world Clarke posits is a logical one, and is great as both a story and a warning. Far from being a dystopia, the city of Diaspar in the book is the genuinely archetypal Utopia. It is into this stagnant, decadent setting that Clarke creates one of his grandest visions. This book is sweeping in its vision and its prose. Clarke has always had a deft poetic touch, and this story contains some of his most beautiful outpourings of words. An absolutely essential read for any science fiction fan, as is the novel that it bequeathed.	2002-01-06
US	50002830	R248PK82GQVFYG	0385333471	163607250	God Bless You, Mr. Rosewater: A Novel	Books	4	5	7	N	N	Pearls before swine	This book, which has been touted as a &quot;brilliant satire on almost everything&quot;, is, in fact, one of Vonnegut's second-rate novels. It is perhaps his most pessimistic, cynical, darkest book of them all. It's also different from the majority of his work in that it is fairly straight-forwardly written; it doesn't jump around on narrative detours like most of his books do. The story is told in fairly linear fashion. It is certainly a good book, and a nice, quick read (like all Vonnegut, it has that indescrible weird factor - not suspense, in the typical fashion - that keeps you reading it); it's just that it doesn't have that Great Underlying Moral like his best books do. The book's main character is Eliot Rosewater (undoubtedly a familar persona to Vonnegut fans), and he gives in this book - to everybody - what seemingly no one is willing to give these days: unconditional love. In turn for this, he is spit on by the world. This book says, in typical Vonnegut candor, Help people; you won't be appreciated for it, and you will probably even be ridiclued, but do it, anyway. It also says, Most people don't deserve help - they are worthless, useless, and stupid - but do it, anyway. Also, this book is a sharp-toothed satire of the American welfare system. Vonnegut's view of welfare echoes mine: it was a good idea to start out with, but its usefulness has passed. People who don't need it are milking it shamelessly, and the time has come to drastically re-organize it, or dispense with it alltogether. Vonnegut also tackles the issue of inherited wealth, and all forms of riches you earn by birthright, or other similar cirumstances, without actually earning yourself. Of course, this inevitably raises the subject of Communism. This book has a lot of interesting ideas, and points, but they are never brought together into that single, incredible cohesive whole, like they are in his best books. Certainly, it is a worthy read for fans; others, however, would be wise to start elsewhere.	2002-01-06
US	50002830	R2PZ7GDLY649NY	0385334141	735242912	Mother Night	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Classic Vonnegut	Although I must maintain that this is not Kurt Vonnegut's best book, it is a very good and certainly enjoyable one, with a biting moral to boot. It also marked a departure for Vonnegut from the science fiction mold that he cast his first two books in. This is also the first time that he dealt with what was perhaps the central experience of his life in his fiction (his experiences in World War II.) The premise of the book is this: a man purporting to be a Nazi radio propagander is actually an American spy. However, after the war is over, the American government refuses to admit that he worked for them, and he is charged as a war criminal. This begs the question: which one was he, really? This is a central question to keep in mind throughout the book, and the ending is startling. It also raises one of Vonnegut's best questions:<br />We are who we pretend to be, so we better be darn careful who we pretend to be.	2002-01-03
US	50002830	R1JU7CE36AGE1Z	0688165931	411784243	Bob Dylan: Behind the Shades Revisited	Books	5	18	19	N	N	This is the one to get	This is, page by page, the best Dylan biography out there. If you're looking for a shocking exposition of debauchery, i.e., &quot;National Enquirer&quot;-style, then you should look elsewhere. However, if you are more interested in the man's art, as any true Dylan fan would be, then this is the book for you. Although he throws in a couple of questionable interjections (a complete rejection of the Grateful Dead having any importance in Dylan's career, a lack of sensitivity for when Dylan's muse is not there, and a slightly more expose-styled chapter towards the end of the book), Heylin does a generally good job throughout of keeping his personal opinions out of the book and telling us what we want to know. All of the albums are gone into in detail (as in, what was going on in Dylan's life when they were being made, inside details on the recording sessions, how and when the songs came about, etc.), and the good thing is that Heylin talks about the entire sessions (stuff that didn't make it, material that was never released), giving them as much credence as the official canon, which is very important. This gives the book a much more well-rounded scope, and shows the full wealth of Dylan's art, not just what he has chosen to release. All the tours are given full coverage as well. This is not to say that his personal life is not covered - it is. We get a fascinating glimpse into Dylan's early childhood, his teenage years when he first started playing in bands, and his subsequent moves to college and New York. All this stuff is, of course, detailed very thoroughly. We also get a look into his relationships (without stooping to voyeurism.) It would be foolish to ignore such an important part of Dylan's life, and it also interesting to look at his various relationships in relation to his muse - it's interesting to see what women inspired what certain songs. Also, the other major strength that this book has over others is that it adequately (for the most part) covers his &quot;lost&quot; years of the 80's and 90's. The chapters on the 80's are useful to fans for giving reasons for (though not excusing) why Dylan so often in that decade left his best songs off his albums. The Never Ending Tour is also gone into in detail. We also get a look into Dylan's &quot;born again&quot; phase, which had always been a mystery to me. The only thing about this book that really disappointed me is that his excellent 1997 Album of the Year, Time Out of Mind, is not given extensive coverage (nor the subsequent events in his career.) Although this book was published in 2001, it stops chronologically at about the point of the Grammy Awards where Dylan won his three awards for Time Out of Mind (Things Have Changed is mentioned, barely, but not its accolades.) Still, this is far and away the best Dylan biography that is now available. It will give you a better understanding of Dylan the man (always seemingly such an enigma), while also giving you a greater appreciation of his art. This book does not destroy Dylan the Legend, but enriches your appreciation of him. That is what a good biography should do.	2002-01-01
US	50002830	R27CG5L3JQU7L2	0425174468	176308808	Bagombo Snuff Box: Uncollected Short Fiction	Books	4	11	11	N	N	Not genius, the making of one	Kurt Vonnegut fans will want to read this, but... if you're new to the man, start elsewhere. Diehard Vonneguttians will enjoy this collection as it contains some worthwhile stories, but, mostly, it shows how his trademark caustically witty style developed. These stories aren't great in themselves, but they point the way. Certainly his literary merit based on his novels alone is beyond question - one of the 20th century's greatest and most important authors, Vonnegut helped shape the way many people, including myself, think. However, these stories are not great in themselves, certainly not compared to the high standard Vonnegut has since set for himself. Still, fans will want to read this book, as it contains some interesting stories, lays the foundation for his later masterpieces, and, indeed, completes their collection. New readers should start elsewhere.	2001-12-22
US	50002830	R3M4H8BJFLY1US	034532451X	217796281	The Rolling Stones	Books	4	0	0	N	N	One of Heinlein's best juveniles	Robert A. Heinlein wrote many books for young adults, and they have introduced many a teenager to science fiction -- indeed, to science, as many astronauts say they were first inspired by them. It's easy to see why; the books are great. Yes, they were written for a target audience, but they can be enjoyed just as readily and just as much by anyone. Neophytes may have difficulty deciding which to pick up first; this, along with Citizen of The Galaxy and Tunnel In The Sky should definitely be picked up early. It's a fun, breezy, highly enjoyable romp. Some reviewers have pointed out that, unlike most Heinlein, it has no major overarching theme or message. Also unusually for Heinlein, it is episodic. However, the book is notable for its portrayal of domestic life. The Stones are not in any way that great mythological \\"normal\\" family but Heinlein's usual, and always lovable, maverick motley crew of genius, smart-aleck minions who spout wit as if it were second-nature, but some positive family values and situations are put across here. There are many examples that give a strong moral foundation and grounds for thought to the intended audience. Older readers will not be \\"charmed,\\" a horrible term often applied to so-called \\"kids' books\\" that adults will supposedly like, but enlightened as well. Like all Heinlein \\"juvies,\\" the book also doesn't skimp on science. All in all, it is another Heinlein that you should definitely pick up.	2001-12-19
US	50002830	RGJZJ78H6NBWD	0451156161	344110456	Beyond This Horizon	Books	4	22	22	N	N	Unnecessarily derided	To be sure, this is far from being one of Robert A. Heinlein's best novels, but it is a good book, and nowhere near as bad as it is often made out to be - I found it to be an engrossing read. The book was written in the early 40's, but it tackles a subject that has only much more recently been seriously looked into on more than a mere esoteric level (due to books like Jurassic Park and such): genetic engineering. If you knew nothing of genetics, this book could teach you some (although certain &quot;facts&quot; in the book - 48 chromosomes - have been outmolded by subequent science, which Heinlein wisely decided to leave well enough alone), and it's speculation can be enlightening. This book explores the issue pretty thoroughly, almost on a remarkable level for the time, and it really should get more credit for that. This is surely one of the very earliest science fiction books to deal with the subject on such terms - perhaps not too surpisingly, as Heinlein is generally credited with introducing the social sciences into science fiction, and genetic engineering is a logical tangent from that springboard. Perhaps the reason it hasn't received such credit is the ease with which certain subjects are dispensed. Aside from the occasional absurd coincidences in the story (Phyllis showing up at Hamilton's house and Marion meeting Cliff at the park are never explained) which can be overlooked with a knowing wink towards artistic license, this book makes an issue of bringing up most of the major philosophical points in existence (including, but certainly not limited to, &quot;What is the meaning of life?&quot; itself), but never really attempting to answer them (Heinliein has done the same thing in subsequent writings, too - Gulf, for instance.) Of course, on the byline, such questions cannot be answered. Kudos to the book for at least dealing with them (also, the realization that Felix comes to about the meaning of life, though scientifically unsatisfying, is at least moreally reassuring.) Still, aside from all this, this is an entertaining book, and you will have fun reading it. It hooked me. It's fun, interesting, more than a little thought-provoking (as all good SF, and Heinlein, should be), and somewhat underrated in Heinlein's oeuvre, as it is often unnecessarily derided. <br />Perphaps, as to emphasize the point that this book is better than is generally ackwnoledged (or maybe just looking to make a quick buck on the theory of &quot;anything with Heinlein's name on it will sell&quot;), this book has been recently re-published. I'm glad to see it back in publication. It's a worthy part of the Heinlein canon, and deserves to be read. Unfortunately, it is adorned with a horrendous cover, unshamedly derivative of 2001 - somebody's horrible lapse in judgment - that may give this already undeservedly notorious book an even worse reputation. At least it's back in print. Perhaps a better edition lies somewhere &quot;beyond this horizon.&quot; Alas.	2001-12-16
US	50002830	R18RL9RT36KT5L	0671318454	152826922	Orphans of the Sky	Books	4	19	20	N	N	A worthwhile read	While it shouldn't be compared to his later genre-busting novels, Orphans of the Sky is an entertaining Robert A. Heinlein book in its own right. The concept is one often mentioned in science fiction, but rarely expanded upon: a giant, self-contained spaceship - it's own Universe - in which humans eat and breathe, sleep and breed. The twist here is that they've been in it for so long that they can't remember life before it - or even imagine it, as they now believe the the Ship IS the Universe. It is an interesting social critique, as it shows how perfectly viable truths (indeed, Common Sense) can be reduced to mere mythology and religious twaddle. The book is well-written. Short, compact - two stories in about 120 pages - it is very tight, and this is one of those rare stories where not a single word is wasted (a complete contrast to some of Heinlein's later novels, one might say.) These are also the last two stories in Heinlein's Future History (never included in The Past Through Tomorrow.) A worthwhile story, I'm glad to see it back in print. Certainly not a heavyweight novel, but Heinlein fans will enjoy it. Reccommended for them, or as a good distraction.	2001-12-16
US	50002830	R3BVXCV2L451Q2	0670002348	567107039	Leonard Cohen: Selected Poems 1956-1968	Books	4	10	10	N	N	Classic collection	Originally issued in 1968, after Cohen had released his first album and become something of a cult figure. People heard Suzanne and thought, &quot;Oh, I hear this guy's a poet, too; I wonder what he writes...&quot; This book was published to appease such sentiments. And it does a good job of it - covering all of Leonard's poetry books released up to that time, featuring the highlights from each, as well as a good slew of new poems. Although some of Leonard's best poetry (and lyrics) were published after the release of this book - and this omnibus itself has been rendered largely unnecessary due to the release of Leonard's career-spanning collection, Stranger Music (although this does contain several works that that doesn't) - it is still a good collection, and an accurate summing up of Leonard's career up to that point. Reccommended for Cohen fans, if you can find it.	2001-12-15
US	50002830	RYN00HHYRIOXA	188098508X	890942303	King Ink	Books	4	21	21	N	N	Essential for Cave fans	Aside from being simply one of the greatest songwriters now working, Nick Cave has various literary aspirations. In addition to publishing a well-received novel (And The Ass Saw The Angel), he has also put out two books of collected works, this being the first. This contains all of his early poetry (which was heretofore nearly impossible to find), as well as all of his lyrics through Your Funeral, My Trial (including unreleased songs), a couple of short, one act plays, and a few other writings (including a piece on how he met Blixa Bargeld.) Cave fans will want this for its convenience of having all of his early lyrics in one place (it contains those from The Birthday Party, Die Haut, and all), and will treausure it for giving them more of Cave's works. This goes to show what a true talent Nick Cave is. Essential for all fans, and, even if you've never heard of Nick Cave, you may well be quite surprised and delighted at the quality of his work held within.	2001-12-12
US	50002830	R1R31HK84TW49Y	1880985497	890942303	King Ink II	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Essential Cave, shows his growth	A big improvement over his first King Ink collection, this book shows just how far Nick Cave has come as a songwriter. Collecting his lyrics from his masterpiece Tender Prey all the way through his masterpiece The Boatman's Call, this shows Cave tackling broader subjects with an ever-more-eloquent pen, but staying &quot;chained to the same bowl of vomit&quot; as he puts it, returning again and again to the recurring themes of love, loss, God, and death. He delves deep into these themes in all their revertebrations. This book also includes lyrics to songs that have thus far remained unpublished, or were written for other artists, as well as a short &quot;movie treatment.&quot; Also included is a manuscript of his essay &quot;The Flesh Made Word&quot;, long adorned by Cave afficiandos, which probably makes it worth the price of the book alone for them, just being able to have a printed copy of this masterful essay. Reading this - you can also hear him dictate it on his CD, &quot;The Secret Life of The Love Song/The Flesh Made Word: Two Essays By Nick Cave&quot; - you can see why he was chosen to write the forward for a version of The Gospel According To Mark. Cave is a true talent, and this proves it. Essential for all admirers.	2001-12-12
US	50002830	RSBXR53CSGJVU	0826451500	1526346	Song and Dance Man III: The Art of Bob Dylan	Books	5	42	42	N	N	Absolutely incredible	As an avid fan of rock scholarship (oxymoronical as some still consider the term), I've read many a bio and interpretive book through the years, and I have to say that this one, hands down, is the absolute most amazing one I've ever come across. Only Dylan - with his 40+ albums, 4-decade career, half a thousand songs, countless gigs, and sheer depth of material - could be subject to such a gargantuan examination as this, and Gray milks it for all it's worth. At over 900 pages, this book examines every aspect of Dylan's recorded work. The level of scholarship is almost insane. The footnotes alone are massive (some taking up the majority of a page); one chapter alone contains over 220 of them. This is not a book that attempts to &quot;explain&quot; the songs (Gray knows better than that.) What it does, instead, is give detailed background information on them: shedding light, at long last, on their genesis - showing us what songs, poems, books, movies or what have you may have influenced them. One gets a sense in reading this of Dylan's own vast knowledge of music. We learn here how deeply and thorougly he has mined such treasure troves of art as pre-war blues, folk songs, the Bible (though Gray borders on overkill on this particular subject), poetry of all sorts, and, surprisingly, nursery rhyme, fairy tales, and Hollywood movie dialogue. Some might claim that knowing such things takes the fun or novelty out of simply listening to a song, or of self-interpretation, but surely, it gives an extra layer or two of depth to Dylan's work, allowing you to appreciate them that much more. Some passages are surely revelatory. While some of the chapters are admittedly not as interesting as others, many are enlightening and downright ground-breaking. The chapter on his use of pre-war blues lyrics poetry is a cornucopia of exhaustive reasearch (the footnotes alone in this chapter could almost comprise a book.) Undoubtedly revelatory to many are the chapters on Dylan's use of nursery rhyme and movie dialogue in his lyrics (the use of the latter shines an entirely new light on the Empire Burlesque album.) Another element of the book worth noting is that it doesn't skimp over his too-often-unnecessarily-derided 80's and 90's work (a period where it actually became cool to despise Dylan.) Gray offers excellent analyses of such 80's masterpieces as Blind Willie McTell, Caribbean Wind (three versions!), Foot of Pride, Jokerman, Brownsville Girl, and the entire Oh Mercy album. All of these songs (and more) are thoroughly examined, and lend needed credence to truly excellent Dylan compositions that often do not get the credit they deserve. His 90's albums - Under The Red Sky, Good As I Been To You, World Gone Wrong, and Time Out of Mind - all have thorough chapters dedicated to them as well. The latter chapter I particularly enjoyed. I should also take time out to ackwnoledge not only Gray's parlaying of information, but his sheer excellence of writing. His prose is very, very good and he can be devastatingly funny at times, as well as scholastically serious. He also manages to avoid the two main traps of writing a book like this: hero worship, and promoting your own work through the medium you are trying to interpret. He's not overly idoltary towards Dylan: certainly he gives him much praise (all deserved, of course), but he also issues forth monumental drubbings at times - perhaps even too much at times. For example, Gray is extremely, extremely critical of such things as the Empire Burlesque and Unplugged albums, which is bound to upset some fans. But surely such critical honesty of opinion is preferable to the &quot;Dylan is God and never makes a mistake; bow down and worship his incomparable art&quot; vibe that is prevalent in so many other books of this type. Also, as I said, he manages to avoid the horrible pitfall of pushing his own works through the guise of interpreting Dylan; he wisely barely mentions himself here. Now, all this is not tosay that the book is perfect. There are certain drawbacks; personally, I think Gray rides the Bible-influence hobby horse a bit too much, and I disagree with some of his opinions (only natural, and he doesn't overburden us with them), and certain parts of the book do seem a bit long-winded. Also, if you are looking for an in-depth study of what Dylan's lyrics &quot;mean&quot;, or for a study of his live performances, then this is not specifically the book for you. However, any, and I mean ANY Dylanophile will want it regardless, as it casts such a deep, illuminating light on so many aspects of his career. There are a lot of books on Bob Dylan available, but this is one of the few truly indispensable ones. Comes absolutely reccommended.	2001-12-07
US	50002830	R1ZXK60R0ZM8JH	0345409469	137607328	The Demon-Haunted World: Science as a Candle in the Dark	Books	4	46	50	N	N	Skeptic's Bible	Surely no semi-aware person in this unfortunate age of television dumbing down, condescending school textbooks, and widespread ignorance and gullibility fails to note the danger that is inherent in society due to a lack of rational thinking, healthy skepticism, and application of the scientific method among the common folk. This book is a plea to those people, and a &quot;how-to&quot; educate guide to those who do realize and want to do something about it. Perhaps the most interesting chapter in this well-rounded book is &quot;The Fine Art of Baloney Detection&quot; in which Sagan demonstrates  a &quot;Baloney Detection Kit&quot; listing the checklist for determining whether or not a particular assertion (whether scientific or not) is Gospel. Conversely, he also wisely offers the companion kit, what NOT to do. Among the other interesting things in this book are convincingly argued debunkings of such annoying to rationalist topics as UFO abductions, astrology, faith healing, chanelling, and their indiscernable ilk. Sagan consistently brings up parallel cases from olden times, i.e. witchcraft mania and demo xenophobia, that show that such fears and paranoia have always been around in different forms. This goes a long way towards exposing them for being fraudelent. Sagan also expounds here his views on such subjects as religion (a very rational argument on their scientific insignifigance, while also pointing out its virtues: a balanced view that should open many eyes, without, perhaps, offending the faithful), public education (corollaried with an abundance of letters Sagan has received from readers on the subject, many of them eye-opening), and politics; many of which I agree with, all of which I can respect. This is a very enlightening and useful book, and an elegant manifesto for the useful application of the scientific method and skeptical and rational thinking in our modern world. It's a shame that Sagan is no longer around to parlay such truth to our all-too-ignorant public. Still, the incredible works that he left behind, including this indispensable book, can still enligten us and perhaps make our world that much better for whatever dose of rationality it can inject into our &quot;demon-haunted&quot;, close-minded society: science as a &quot;candle in the dark&quot; indeed.	2001-11-16
US	50002830	R3399GARB8EXBY	0711932190	602767385	Bob Dylan: In His Own Words (v. 2)	Books	5	14	15	N	N	A must for any Dylan fan	Bob Dylan fans will enjoy this book that features over 100 pages of Dylan quotes on subjects ranging from music, the 60's, drugs, love, his idols, songwriting, and more. Everybody knows that Dylan was a wily and occasionally malicious interviewee, and this book reflects that. I laughed out loud several times at his witticisms directed back at the hollow questiosn that were put to him. However, there are some very pointed answers that he serves up here as well, that seemingly give a real insight into his persona, his life, and his views. There are also a lot of high-quality pictures. My only complaint is that the book is a little short-you can easily read it all in one setting, though it's probably a book that you'll go back to time and again to see what Dylan offered up on a particular subject-it would have been nice, for instance, if it had a section where Dylan commented upon particular songs of his, such as was done in the Leonard Cohen book in the &quot;In His Own Words&quot; series. Still, Dylan interviews are always hard to come by, and this is the best copendium you'll find featuring them.	2001-11-11
US	50002830	RAPWGKCTI7EH4	0385333498	794708589	The Sirens of Titan: A Novel	Books	5	214	229	N	N	Perhaps his best book	I've read many of Kurt Vonnegut's novels, and this is perhaps his best one of all (quite a high complement indeed, when considering the man is, in my opinion at least, one of the foremost writers of the 20th century.) Vonnegut's wit is acerbic and as on-target as ever; this time he expells on us about the meaning of life... or the meaninglessness of it. While this is perhaps not his most profound and meaningful novel (which would probably be Cat's Cradle), and not his most purposeful one (undoubtedly Slaughterhouse-Five), it is perhaps his wittiest and one of his funniest, and works the best as satire. It is astonishingly well-written. Quite a bit leap over his already very good first book, Player Piano. This has more of a plot than later novels would, without using much of the non-linear storytelling format that Vonnegut would later make famous use of. <br />At this point, I also feel the need to comment on the review titled &quot;whence...&quot; The reviewer is taking the details of this book too seriously. The point of this book is not the plot or the details; it is the principle, the style. The reviewer goes to pains to point out scientific inaccuracies and plot holes in the book (yes, the escape maneuver from Mercury is implausible; yes, things happen in the book without any apparent logic or reason; but neither of these matter in the larger context of the book.) This book is not meant to be hard science fiction; nor should it be compared to scientifically stringent fiction by writers such as Arthur C. Clarke (whom the reviewer referenced.) In fact, I would say that this book is not science fiction at all. It is satire, pure and simple. The scientific ideas and elements in the plot are not meant to be taken seriously (as is often the case with actual hard science fiction; for example, the aformentioned Clarke's &quot;The Fountains of Paradise&quot;, in which he propagates his vision for a space elevator.) Vonnegut uses these only as means to an end. This is seriously-intended satire (albeit highly enjoyable to read) put into a science fiction framework. This is actually, I would argue, what makes the book great. <br />The genius of Vonnegut is that he takes highly serious subjects and puts them into a context in his books that puts them in a universal light where they can be examined: through satire, he places deathly serious subjects in improbable situations where we can all laugh at them, be entertained by them, but also examine their reality in depth. All books by Kurt Vonnegut, Jr. work on two levels. The first is the &quot;skin deep&quot; level, on which the books appear to be merely rough-and-tumble, hilarious, little entertaining adventures. However, there is also the deeper element that is always there, the hard themes that resonate beneath the surface. Many writers treat such things entirely seriously, which is fine, but Vonnegut's style puts it in a format that everyone can relate to. This is why he is such a great and important writer, and why so many of us relate to him and have learned so much from him. Perhaps our most acute AND entertaining social critic, Kurt Vonnegut is an author that we are lucky to have, and this is one of the brightest shining gems in his canon.	2001-11-04
US	50002830	R17QH36CEU4247	0425130215	254394811	Hocus Pocus	Books	5	10	11	N	N	One of his finest books	At this stage in his career-1990, having already delivered several undisputed classics, Cat's Cradle, Slaughter-House 5, etc.-Kurt Vonnegut's place in the annals of American literature was already well established. And yet, he delivered yet another masterpiece with this book. The book is narrarated in first-person, and the character is another in the fine Vonnegut tradition: possessing a highly caustic wit, smart-alec persona, and a dry pessimism that is as funny as it is unfortunately true. This is the voice of Vonnegut, of course, and the body of literature is much the better for it. I won't divulge specific details of the book's plot here, like most Vonnegut, there is no real plot. Instead, the story is told in a very non-linear format, jumping from scene to scene in a juxtposed manner. This format, although idiosynctric, actually helps somewhat with the suspense factor... it reveals elements of the story that have not happened yet, without divulging their specific details. This is sort of a culmination of some of the many elements that make Vonnegut Vonnegut, coming on the heels of what many considered to be a series of downer books for him, which makes this one of his finest, funniest, and most enjoyable novels.	2001-10-25
US	50002830	RXBDU4YMSO8PM	0440109795	494571603	Fotonovel: Close Encounters of the Third Kind	Books	3	6	6	N	N	3 and 1/2 Stars	This is Spielberg's novel version of his more famous movie. It's not a bad book but, being Spielberg, it reads more like a movie screenplay than an actual novel. It's not that the writing is dry or boring (it's actually quite well-written and captivating in spots), but it doesn't go into extreme detail on some of the more mysterious and awe-inspiring scenes, as good science fiction invariably does. Of course, this was reconciled in the movie where you could actually SEE what is merely being described in this book. Still, this is a fun book, and I reccommend it to you for a rainy day or something of the kind. It's nice, quick read that you'll enjoy.	2001-10-20
US	50002830	R2BRMKANBJPK0B	0671741926	818442828	The Mote in God's Eye	Books	5	2	2	N	N	First Contact 101	Larry Niven and Jerry Pournelle are known for their numerous collaborations, and this, I believe, is their masterpiece. These two writers seem to bring out the best in each other. Pournelle with his encyclopedic knowledge of all things military, and Niven with his alien-making craft and genetic obsession together craft a story that is meticilous in its detail and believable. The characters are well-thought out and rounded, even if they do have somewhat stereotypical roles. But the most amazing thing about the book is its presentation. The authors here have crafted one of the most conspiciously detailed alien races in science fiction, The Moties. They don't fit into the normal, subverted alien niche, and there is quite a bit of new ground covered here. Also, the problem of First Contact is examined here in every possible facet. The book shows how contact with a civilized alien race might affect our economy, military, government, trade, politics, religion, and more. It also raises ethical and moral questions that we might have in that situation (and suggests some events that might lead to this happening.) All in all, a very well-written book that captures a particular canon of science fiction almost perfectly. Highly reccommended.	2001-10-18
US	50002830	R3TZDEI3Z7MBH1	0671004107	860650224	Contact	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Spectacular	Carl Sagan's Contact is a very well-written, enjoyable books that manages to get a point across and be educational at the same time. Many books have approached the problems of first contact, but few have examined it as thoroughly as Sagan does here. Also, he approaches it in a different way from most. Rather than have the aliens visit the earth, the human race instead picks up artificial radio signals, and... well, I won't spoil it for you. Suffice it to say that Sagan's deep involvement with Project SETA carries over into this book and gives it a highly realistic feel, that along with the well-drawn cast of characters and pseudo-documentary narrative style. Another thing that makes this book worthy is that Sagan weaves his views on such issues as religion (on which he raises some very valid flags), science, government, nationalism, sexism, and aliens. You might not agree with everything he says, but you have to at least allow that he raises some truly tangible points. This is a fine book: well-thought out, info-packed, believable, and readable. My highest reccommendation (and a lot better than the movie, by the way.)	2001-10-10
US	50002830	RO5H8Q7982AOD	0441653049	134591962	The Past Through Tomorrow: Future History Stories	Books	5	13	14	N	N	Classic	This collection starts with Heinlein's first-ever published story (Life-Line), and continues through the next several years of his writing. These stories, of course, make up his famous Future History series. There is one novel among them (Methuselah's Children; the book's standout piece, and the debut of Lazarus Long), a couple of novellas (The Man Who Sold The Moon, &quot;-If This Goes On&quot;), and numerous short to medium-length stories. Unlike his longer later novels, in these works his agenda is not being an idealogue, but rather exploiting one small central idea, or even simply writing a good story. To be sure, there are several stories of lesser quality here, but there are also many classics (the ones I've already mentioned, plus The Roads Must Roll, Blowups Happen, Logic of Empire, Coventry, and others.) If all you know of Heinlein is his later &quot;message&quot; novels like Starship Troopers and Stranger In A Strange Land, then do yourself a favor and pick up this immaculate collection of his early fiction.	2001-09-29
US	50002830	R2827C6XV4E8WX	0451183665	239863830	A Case of Need	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A Monumental Debut	Michael Crichton's first serious book, this is really quite an accomplishment. He introduces the suspenseful style sustained throughout his career; I was hooked from the very first sentence. Interestingly, it is written in the first-person, something that Crichton has rarely done again. His distinct style is still omnipresent, however. This is a very good mystery and has a lot of evidence for both sides of the abortion debate -- a hot topic then and now. This is still a highly relevant book. There is a lot of jargon and esoteric information, as readers have come to love and expect. This gives Crichton novels a distinctive documentary-style that is entirely his. This is the real first book from one of the great American authors of the last five decades.	2001-09-20
US	50002830	R29SS1CMBX4P1E	0451125363	67853388	The Lost Worlds of 2001	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Essential if you loved 2001	I highly reccommend this book to you if you enjoyed the novel 2001: A Space Odyssey (or the movie, for that matter, but read the book version of it before you read this.) It consists of chapters that were originally written for the book, but were not used. Also included are occasional musings by Clarke on the making of the book, and behind-the-scenes glimpses at the making of the movie. He kept a journal during the entire 4-year process of the making of the works, and some of them are excerpted here. It's interesting to see some of the ideas that were thought up, but abandoned. For instance, what became HAL was originally a walking robot; the initial &quot;Dawn of Man&quot; scenes involved an actual alien, and there are numerous alternate endings (all of them every bit as ornate as the one we're all familar with.) This is sort of the literary equivalent of the movie industry's &quot;The Making of Kubrick's 2001&quot; (which I also reccommend.) A highly worthy buy for the fan.	2001-09-16
US	50002830	RC03GX5B4LK49	0575602902	11986816	Fall of Moondust	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Hard to put down	This is somewhat of an anamoly in Clarke's canon. At a contrast to his usual philosophical-tinged works, this is an honest-to-goodness thrill machine. Fortunately, Clarke's pen is as mighty as ever, and we are spared the usual, dime-a-dozen, run-of-the-mill action stories of this type that pollute the science fiction landscape. Here we have a suspenseful narrative that is both well and tightly written, while also being scientifically strict. While it is true that the &quot;dust&quot; that Clarke describes does not exist on the Moon-at least not that we know of-it is still very plausible, and there are no leaps of faith that need to be made during the course of this book, in terms of its climaxes and resolutions. This has all the intelligence that you would expect from Clarke. He also did something here that he has not always done, but which was fortunat here because it was essential to the story's being good, and that was including an interesting and believable cast of characters. These are not cardboard cut-outs, and they bring the human element into hard science fiction, which, unfortunately, is often all too lacking. This is a classic. If you are tired of the cornball, cliched type of SF &quot;disaster&quot; story that is all too prevalent and want something better, then look no further.	2001-09-16
US	50002830	R3TLIYC0UV27I	0441748600	265603571	To Sail Beyond the Sunset	Books	5	8	10	N	N	The captstone of Heinlein's career	To Sail Beyond The Sunset was the last book Robert Heinlein wrote during his life, and it is a fitting capstone to his career. It is the autobiography of a fictional character, Maureen Johnson, mother of Lazarus Long. It is a bit like Time Enough For Love in the sense that it is about one central character, however, unlike that book, this one is actually written in an autobiographical format-it reads like a serious, real autobiography-and is (mostly) chronological to boot (unlike Time Enough For Love.) Throughout the long book, Heinlein ties together many of the characters and storylines from his major works and even some of his lesser-known early pulp stories, and thus places a definitive capstone on one of the richest universes in all of science fiction. It is nothing short of amazing how he draws together literally dozens of characters from a multitude of books (some over 40 years old), and manages to make their storylines fit logically into this book. There are many interesting things about To Sail Beyond The Sunset. It is literally the great tie-together; it seeks to unite Heinlein's future history, his early pulp stories, and some of his other novels, and it succeeds. This must have been an astonishingly complex book to write. (There is a large appendix in the back of the book that lists some of the dozens of characters included, as well as a list of related books and other information, but even it is not complete.) It ties up a lot of loose threads that a lot of other books left dangling. It is also interesting to see, in this book, events that took place in Time Enough For Love or The Number of The Beast, say, from Maureen's point of view. <br />This is a consumate Heinlein work. If you are at all into books like Time Enough For Love, The Number of the Beast, The Cat Who Walks Through Walls, etc., then this is a must-read. Also if you'd like to see how the Futurer History series finally ends up. Also, if you are a woman, I reccommend that you read this book.You'll either love it (&quot;That's the kind of woman I'd like to be!&quot;), or hate it (&quot;That why women have such a bad image!&quot;), but I guarantee that it will provoke a reaction. That's why Heinlein continues to matter. He was one of the few mainstream writers who dared to challenge public mores, to smash conventions, and write the kinds of books that he really wanted to write, unafraid of public opinion or reaction. His books (his later ones, anyway) are heavily idealistic. You won't always agree with him, but he will at least get you thinking. This is one reason why &quot;To Sail&quot; is such a great book. A fitting end to the career of what many consider to be the greatest science fiction writer of them all.	2001-09-09
US	50002830	R2SX4IWCP1MKGZ	0345447980	134789254	Planet of the Apes	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Doesn't get enough credit	Despite the huge pop culture phenomenon that has come about as a result of this book, many are people are unaware that it all sprang from a book, and one written in French at that. This book is truly good on it's own. Even if you've never seen any of the movies (old or new), you will still like this. Seeing the movies first will probably only make you appreciate it more. It's quite a bit different from any of them. The inspiration was taken from this, it wasn't an adaptation. But this book is a classic. Written in a clear, lucid, smooth, and very readable style, this books comes off well, and is a fast and thought-provoking read. No doubt Xan Fielding deserves some credit for his translation. This book, through satire and irony, makes us realize and ask questions about ourselves. It is science fiction, I guess, but that is more used as a vechile to present Boulle's social criticism. An intriguing book. Comes very highly reccommended indeed.	2001-08-14
US	50002830	R3EQOQU1YW4AID	0806518561	707124067	The Philip K. Dick Reader	Books	5	36	39	N	N	Incredible collection	The PKD reader is an excellent introduction to this seminal SF author's short fiction. Most all of his major pieces are here, as well as some enjoyable underrated works. Mr. Dick's greatness is shown here by the stories in this volume. Also, there are four (at least) movies or potential movies made from the stories here. It's not uncommon for an SF novel to be made into a movie, but a short story is something else again. And yet, from the wonderful &quot;We Can Remember It For You, Wholesale&quot; (a classic Dick story) the classic SF film Total Recall was made; likewise for Screamers from &quot;Second Variety. Steven Spielberg is currently filming &quot;The Minority Report&quot; with Tom Cruise. &quot;Paycheck&quot; has been optioned. All four of these stories are excellent, top-notch science fiction. &quot;Minority&quot;, in particular, is awesome, and stands as one of my all-time favorite pieces of short SF. One can also see, during the course of reading this book, just how much Philip K. Dick grew as a writer during his career. Early stories featured here such as &quot;Fair Game&quot; and &quot;The Hanging Stranger&quot; while certainly good, have a VERY pulp-ish feel. This is offset by wonderful later stories such as the one mentioned, and other such as &quot;The Father-Thing&quot;, &quot;The Last of The Masters&quot;, and &quot;War Veteran.&quot; Dick's writing style is compelling, fast-paced, readable, and thought-provoking, and you can see why he is held in such high regard by fans and critics alike. These are some of the best SF shorts written since the likes of Heinlein and Clarke ruled the roost. It's sad that he only started receiving real recognition after his untimely death in 1982 (just before Blade Runner was released. Pick up this book, and see why it has been said that &quot;100 years from now, Philip K. Dick may be looked back upon as the greatest writer of the second half of the 20th century.&quot;	2001-08-12
US	50002830	R35PMU7UIYU266	0711968780	849773658	Leonard Cohen: In His Own Words (In Their Own Words)	Books	5	16	17	N	N	Fantastic	This book is an absolute must for Leonard Cohen fans. True, it's not very thick (about 100 pages), but you can pick it up for a good price, and it is packed with TONS of priceless Cohen quotes and many, many excellent photographs. We get quotes from Cohen (&quot;In Their Own Words&quot; indeed), on just about every subject... his songs, albums, books, and poetry, the art of songwriting, his life, religion, other artists, women, love &amp; relationships, and much, much more. We also get commentary and ancedotes on Cohen, quotes on him from other artists, and a larger selection of Cohen photographs than I have seen anywhere else (very good ones, too.) This books comes highly reccommended for all fans of Leonard Cohen.	2001-08-07
US	50002830	R1Z3020Q70R0ED	0575600527	145064744	The Wind from the Sun	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Some good stories	Although it's not Arthur C. Clarke's best short story collection, there are some good stories here. A lot of them are merely harmless, playful ditties that Clarke probably had some fun coming up with (The Food of The Gods, Love That Universe, Dial F For Frankenstein, The Longest Science-Fiction Story Ever Told, Herbert George Morley Robert Wells, esq., etc.) that don't, perhaps, have that much lasting literary value, but they are still ACC, and good. A lot of these stories are notable and fun to read due to their surprise endings. You will marvel at Clarke's ability to do this. Some of the best cuts from this book include the title story (which has launched quite a scientific following), Reunion, and the multitple award-winning novella A Meeting With Medusa which is an undeniable Clarke classic that almost makes the book worth buying on it's merit alone. A Clarke fan will want to own this book.	2001-08-05
US	50002830	RCWKEXQOEGL68	0679755411	73427454	Stranger Music: Selected Poems and Songs	Books	5	33	35	N	N	Amazing, tugs at your soul	Leonard Cohen is... I cannot find a single word to describe him. He is enigmatic. He is eclectic. He is iconoclastic. He is all of these things, and many, many more. Read this book and you will understand. This book includes a wide variety of his poems throughout the years, including selections from all 8 of his original volumes of poetry (The Energy of Slaves and Death of A Lady's Man are particularly well represented), as well as poems from his first anthology, selections from his novel Beautiful Losers, and 11 previously unpublished poems. Also included are lyrics to songs from all of his wonderful albums, many of them nicely represented, including The Future, his most recent album, which has all of it's Cohen-penned lyrics included here. These are particularly convenient as Cohen's albums, sadly, have been virtually ignored by record companies and during their re-packaging onto CD most of them do not include lyrics. This is a monumental collection, over 400 pages and including several hundred poems, some of which are not available elsewhere, and almost all of which are very hard to find at any rate. This is an absolute must for a Leonard Cohen fan. He is perhaps my favorite poet, his words tug at your heartstrings like so many other poets are claimed to be able to do, but which few can. His writing has always been honest, he's not fooling anybody, and these poems and lyrics touch you deep in your soul. Cohen strikes a chord. This is masterly, masterly writing. If you are a fan of Leonard Cohen's music, then you owe it to yourself to further your experience by buying this book. I cannot give it a higher reccommendation.	2001-08-05
US	50002830	R7YFIC5WIUXYT	015187980X	702751401	Tales of Ten Worlds	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Good collection, a few classics	This is not his best collection, but Clarke afficiandos will find a lot to like here. The most famous story here is probably I Remember Babylon the (barely fictional) account that stars Clarke himself as it's protagonist, and focuses on some of the seemingly (at the time) unforseen negative consequences of the communications satellites, which Clarke, of course, had a big hand in bringing to fruition. Most of these fears have been justified. The Russian references in this story (and also in Hate) date it somewhat, but it is still as relevant today as the day it was written, perhaps moreso. If you are one who realizes the danger of modern television, then you should read this account written by one of it's fathers. Other good stories here include Who's There?, Saturn Rising, and others. Two of Clarke's most underrated stories are here as well: Death And The Senator (which, along with Dog Star and Hate in this volume, show an unusually emotive side of ACC), and the long epic The Road To The Sea. The is a reccommended collection for the ACC addict.	2001-08-05
US	50002830	R22LOHB6XO9MN2	0679781374	104788172	Radio Free Albemuth	Books	5	2	2	N	N	An essential part of the Dick ouvere	This is, in many ways, the quiessential Philip K. Dick novel. It's not his best, and it's not the one you should read first (after all, it's part of the Valis series), but it is a culmination of the the themes that have always dominated his writing. In particular, paranoia and the nature of reality have always been his two major themes, and this book is no exception. At his best, Dick could truly make you ask the question &quot;What is real?&quot; and be unsure of the answer. His writing can also have that &quot;looking over your shoulder&quot; effect. He rarely portrayed either of these two themes better than in this novel. Also, the ruminations on God and religion that dominated his later writings (in particular the Valis series) is a major part of this book as well, though here it is looked at from a more remote perspective than in the previous novels. The plot is also very coherent and easy to follow, unlike in some of his books, while still retaining that unmistakable Dick touch. Essential PKD primer.	2001-07-30
US	50002830	RAIII2K7LAY6X	0060931418	624509678	Their Eyes Were Watching God	Books	4	2	4	N	N	3 and 1/2-3.75 Stars	I had fun reading Their Eyes Were Watching God, and was entertained while doing so, but the end result left me somewhat unimpressed. The Southern dialect makes the novel a bit hard to read at first, but soon you'll pick up on it and won't even notice (as always when dialect is used extensively in a book.) The novel is an interesting, and slightly atypical portrayal of black community as seen at the time of the Harlem Rennaisance. The reader becomes sympathetic with the main character, Janie, during the course of the book, as she is a realistic and lovable character despite, or maybe because of, her sometimes irrational decisions. One feels for her as she struggles for acceptance and independence and falls prey naively to men that are less than she seemingly deserves. The dialogue was entertaining, and some of the language was lyrical and uplifting and, occasionally, profound, and, oftentimes funny. So why less than 4 stars? The ending of the book is unsatisfying. After such a journey, one would expect a somewhat clearer resolution. I don't really see the point or theme of the book, what Hurston was really trying to get across. The body of the book could be looked at as a discourse on the true meaning of love. Janie encounters false love at several points, and then finds true love in an unlikely source, eventually. But this doesn't seem to be the book's main message (if it has one.) Maybe it can be looked at as the epitomal tale of a character of this type, say the Catcher In The Rye for young black women (I realize, of course, that this novel predates Catcher, but you will appreciate my example.) Or perhaps it was just meant to be a realistic, if somewhat romanticized, portrayal of a young black woman growing up in the early part of the century. On this level, it succeeds. On a deeper level, perhaps it doesn't. In any case, this IS an enjoyable book, and I can see the cause for the recent upsurge in the scholarship surrounding it and it's being taught in public schools. Not a literary classic because of it's imperfection, but a good read.	2001-07-29
US	50002830	RIPQQ7U706QUE	0441783589	242880671	Starship Troopers	Books	5	4	5	N	N	One of Heinlein's Essential Reads	Heinlein's controversial classic is at once compelling, entertaining, and thought-provoking. If you go into this book looking for a shoot-em-up (perhaps along the lines of the movie), then you will be disappointed. That's not what this book is about. True, there are sequences at the beginning and end of the book where interesting battles take place, but it's the political/sociological philosophy in-between that is the meat (and point) of the book. True to the word of his famous &quot;Tanstaafl!&quot;, Heinlein here proposes a society where the right to vote is not an intrinsic right, but has to be earned. The book has been critized for being fascist, but these people are not digging deep enough. This is a deep book in the fact that it has a lot to say, and manages to be both readable and entertaining while staying on it's pulpit. It takes a good reader to accomplish this task (Heinlein himself did not always succeed at it, though, when at his prime, he was the best at it), but he certainly does here. One of his best books, and I've read nearly all of them. Totally essential SF primer, and required reading for anyone in or interested in the military or anyone who has ever asked the question &quot;Why do we fight?&quot; Surely, that is all of us...	2001-07-27
US	50002830	RXCAWEHS6NDY2	0553212737	569473707	Emma (Bantam Classics)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A Pleasant Timepiece	I am not normally a fan of this type of novel (hell, I read science fiction), but I read this book for an English AP class this summer, and I must say that I liked it. As a snapshot of English social life at the time it was written, it is faultless. The plot, while somewhat inconsequential by today's so-called &quot;standards&quot;, is entertaining, and leaves the reader in a state of suspense up 'till the conclusion. The dialogue is also very charming, witty, and definately a product of it's time, but relevant. There are novels throughout the history of literature that stand as epoches for certain time periods, and Emma can be realistically called one of them. It wraps up the early 19th century English social life period very well, and more realistically and less sense of being dated than Pride and Prejudice or some of Jane Austen's other novels (or those of her contemporaries.) If you like this type of novel it is a must read, or, if you're like me, it is something interesting to pick up when you want something different from what you usually read.	2001-07-22
US	50002830	ROMFMDBR9OZRB	0671578634	25118563	The Man Who Sold The Moon	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Riveting Writing, But Somewhat Dated Material	Considering this collection was written in the late 30's and early 40's, and was, in fact, the first volume of Heinlein's now-famous Future History, it has actually held up quite well throughout the ensuing years. However, some of the events in the stories have been inevitably dated. It is still well worth reading, though. Heinlein's quick-paced writing style and caustic wit, not to mention lovable characters, always make his stories worth reading, regardless of when they were released. Also, the stories here, for the most part, focus not on the scientific aspects of the technologies in question, but rather the sociological and political sides of them. This is what Heinlein brought to science fiction. He showed us that the key ingredient in good science fiction is story and characters, not the technology being showcased; and by focusing his stories on the characters within and their aspects, his stories are usually just as readable now as the day they were released, even if some of their inherent technology has been dated by subsequent advances in science. Aside from being the first volume in the Future History series, this book is also notable for containing Heinlein's first ever published story, Life-Line. I'm sure you all know the premise-a man invents a machine that shows when people will die-but it is an interesting read if you haven't, and an epoch in the sense of it being the starting point in the career of one of science fiction's greatest writers. Blowups Happen and The Roads Must Roll (does this story remind anyone else of H.G. Well's The Sleeper Awakes?) both focus on technologies that are now fundamentally debunk in the modern day world, but they both focus instead on the people running these technologies (atomic factories and rolling roads respectively), and are an interesting look into sociology and psychology in science fiction. Let There Be Light is a short, decent piece. The Man Who Sold The Moon novella is the title and longest piece in this collection. It is almost totally devoid of actual science, as it has a rather unique, in fact, plotline for science fiction; but has as it's protagonist a seemingly rather crooked, dishonest character who is not particularly of the usually lovable Heinlein kind. It's still an entertaining story, as the writing style is excellent and fast-paced, and the dialogue is exquisite. Requiem features the same main character, and shows a seemingly total different side of him. This story is quite a bit different from most Heinlein, as it is primarily and emotion-based bit, reminding me of something more along the lines of Arthur C. Clarke. Interesting. Although not his best stories, the ones contained in this collection are worth reading, and a must, eventually, for any Heinlein fan.	2001-07-09
US	50002830	R3AU5EX4QDHCTK	0425134067	182883714	Fates Worse Than Death: An Autobiographical Collage	Books	5	53	53	N	N	Brutally honest commentary	Here in this book we get Vonnegut's cynical but honest commentary on everything from talk show hosts to his own experiences with suicidal depression. Some of the chapter's are extremely pessimistic in their outlook, but hit home so well that they can leave you feeling quite down about the human race and it's apparent race headlong towards suicide. However, Kurt's dark sense of humor is here as always and even more prevalent than usual. You'll be laughing out loud at things that are really anything but funny. But that is the genius of Vonnegut, he can have you laughing and wryly amused while reading, but after done, his greater impressions stick in your head and leave you provoking thought. He is truly a gifted writer. Although not as fast-paced as his fiction, this book is a fine and interesting read. Most notable to many readers, surely, will be his perceptions and thoughts on his experiences in World War II and the effect it has since had on him. His religious observations are interestings as well, and funny, to wit: &quot;In order not to appear a spiritual quadripelgic to those trying to get a hold on me, I sometimes say that I am a Unitarian Universalits (I breathe.)&quot; This is certainly a must-read for any Vonnegut fan, but you will want to have devoured a significant amount of his fiction and know a little bit about the man before tackling it.	2001-07-08
US	50002830	R2VFF3KZ4E8DO0	0385333870	197148998	Galapagos: A Novel (Delta Fiction)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Another Winner From Kurt	Galapagos strikes me as one of Kurt Vonnegut's funniest and most well-written novels. The writing is, of course, quit witty, but even moreso here than usual. This book also contains what is a semi-rarity for Vonnegut: a coherent plot. True, it's still not told in linear fashion (this is Vonnegut, after all), and few Vonnegut fans would want it that way, anyhow. The book is a page turner because of the way it is written... like in several of his other books, Kurt mentions events that happen later in the narrarative early on, and uses this as a fairly enticing suspense maneuver. The story and theme elements themselves are interesting: de-evolution (plus such related things as genetics, and all things Darwin), the environment, and more. Although this is not his best book (I still refer to Cat's Cradle as that), this book is well-written, coherent, funny, witty, and less fly-by-the-seat-of-the-pants than most of Vonnegut's oeuvre, and thus, in fact a pretty good place for newbies to the author to start.	2001-07-02
US	50002830	R2UBS2K2L75EMU	0679734449	480135461	The Transmigration of Timothy Archer	Books	5	5	5	N	N	The Most Accessible of the &quot;Valis&quot; Novels	Although considered part of the Valis Trilogy, The Transmigration of Timothy Archer stands on it's own. Unlike the first two books, this book is highly readable and the prose is excellent. It actually reads quite smoothly, though the issues concerned within are just profound as in the first two books. Towards the end of his career, Philip K. Dick focused highly on theological issues in his fiction, and this might be the apex of that writing. Few writers could have pulled this book off; few, indeed, would have even tried. Unlike most PKD books, and certainly the first two of Valis, continually shift their realities and gradually reveal shocking plot twists... this book does not. The plot is coherent, the message is clear. It's a shame that Dick died just as he was writing at his most lucid. He will be missed. Read this book.	2001-06-30
US	50002830	R2S3YJOWRHVZKU	0380729407	944543338	Something Wicked This Way Comes	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Just Nearly 5 Stars	Something Wicked This Way Comes is an interesting and highly entertaining melding of fantasy and horror. The book is not exactly fast-paced, but it is a smooth and pretty quick read, and quite suspenseful (a trio Bradbury usually manages to evoke.) Bradbury has a very unique style. He has been called a &quot;prose poet&quot; and that is a highly accurate description. Though he is writing literary fiction here, it is almost as if you're reading poetry at times. He uses metaphor often and it is quite effective. The only problem with this is that the dialoge at times, though beautiful, can see a bit unrealistic. Alas. The book is a great read. The fascinating portrayal of evil and self-responsibility is all the more effective due to the two protoganists being teenagers. The relationship between one of the boys (Will) and his Father is very touching as well. Just a well-written book. Recommended.	2001-06-21
US	50002830	R1XNVCIPCHGRRF	0679734457	486927956	The Divine Invasion	Books	4	13	13	N	N	Extremely Unique and Thought-Provoking	To all the would-be literary naysayers out there who say &quot;all possible plots have already been used&quot; and &quot;every book is just a different version of a previously released book&quot;, I have one piece of advice for you: read a Philip K. Dick book. Particularly his Valis trilogy is highly unique and a bit eye-opening. How many books have you read that star God as a crippled, 10-year-old amnesiac? Not very many, I would imagine, but this is such a book. Setting the novel in such an off-kilter scenario allows Dick to examine, and thereby challenge, our conventional ideas of God. This book is very dense and hard to penetrate at times... many of the references escaped me, but I still found it interesting for it's novel views on theology and the nature of God. I highly recommend this book, and Dick's entire Valis trilogy, to anyone looking for theology-expanding fiction, or simply a unique read.	2001-06-18
US	50002830	R2T3JSECW555I7	0679734465	131170192	Valis	Books	5	26	31	N	N	An Oddly Disorienting Masterpiece	This is perhaps the densest, hardest to penetrate book I've ever read. And I've read a lot. Essentially autobiographical, sprinkled with fictional elements to create a small semblance of &quot;plot&quot;, Valis is Philip K. Dick trying, through writing, to find out what the hell happened to him in the 70's. It can be nearly impossible to follow at times. And reading the Tracate sprinkled throughout the book (and in an appendix at the end of the novel) one truly has to wonder if the man was insane. But if you dig below the surface, and see what Dick's really getting at here, you will find that the book is worth the trouble it takes to read it. No doubt you'll never understand all of it. That's not the point. I would not recommend this book for everyone, it's dense and hard at times to follow and not at all written in a conventional style (not that much PDK is.) However, if you are tired of mainstream literature and long for something more, or perhaps answers to the BIG questions, then this book is for you. Also, an absolute must-read for Dick fans, personal and wonderful as it is. If Valis turns you off at first, don't worry, stick with it, it's worth the rollercoaster ride it takes you on.	2001-06-14
US	50002830	R37LHBMEVB7TUJ	0553380168	135474617	A Brief History of Time	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Essential Reading For The Curious Joe	I would recommend this as essential reading for the average person who is interested in such things as Physics, the history and eventual fate of the universe, and Man's place in it, whether or not they have a scientific background. I myself have a basic understanding of the foundation of the sciences, but am by no stretch of the imagination an expert in any field, and I enjoyed this book thoroughly. Questsions of such heavy implications that they are downright dizzying, i.e., Does the Universe have a beginning? If so, what happened before that? Does it have an end? How do we know?, etc., are explained in an enlightening but generally non-technical way. I think this book can be useful for those already enlightened in such matters, an those who are not. Most of the book I found to be very readable and I feel that I have learned something from it. There were a few parts, indeed, that I can't claim to have understood fully, but many things (such as the theory of relativity, which I have looked up in many sources before) I now have a grasp on because of this book. I think just about anyone can learn from this book. It takes not only a great physicist, but a great WRITER to pull that off.	2001-06-12
US	50002830	R324I99ZCJTC79	0399137378	983349113	Timequake	Books	4	13	15	N	N	ONLY Vonnegut Fanatics Need Apply	Kurt Vonnegut is certainly in my mind, and in those of most objectionable readers, one of the 20th century's greatest writers. If you have not yet read anything of his, you should take time out now to do so. However, this book is radically different from just about anything else out there (even from Vonnegut) that I wouldn't recommend making it your first reading of KV. If you are new to the author I suggest rather something like Cat's Cradle or Slaughterhouse-Five. Timequake, however, is pure gold for the die-hard Vonnegut fanatic. It is written in a rather odd and unthinkably off-beat style, truly, as the book jacket claims, &quot;a literary form such as the world has never seen.&quot; There is absolutely no plot whatsoever. And there's basically only one character. The vast majority of the book is, in fact, not fiction but personal ancedotes from the author. Vonnegut appears in the novel both as an autobiographical figure reciting reminisces from his past, and as a character in the novel placed in fictional situations. Obviously, this is by no means a conventionally written book. However, this can be tremendously rewarding for Vonnegut fans, because here we get to see a lot of his views on different issues, as well as see him disclosing quite a few events about his past (not that he hadn't done that before, but still.) Read this if you've already made a sizable chunk in the author's repetoire.	2001-06-09
US	50002830	RROYU8FIK13JO	0671578022	246124411	The Menace From Earth	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Two Great Stories and Several Decent Ones	Out of the handful of stories in this book there are two classics that make it a must-read for any Heinlein fan. Most notably is By His Bootstraps, one of Heinlein's most famous shorts, and quite possibly THE definitive fiction on the time travel paradox. This is the grandfather of many subsequent time travel stories and plots, it's told quite cleverly and has a highly complicated plot that must have taken Heinlein quite a while to fathom. It's a must read for any SF fan. The other must-read in this collection is Goldfish Bowl. A story so shocking in it's implications, for Heinlein, that it took him some major convincing to get John W. Campbell, Jr. to publish it in Astounding. It's a notably different take on the way that we usually see aliens treat human beings in science fiction. The rest of the stories in this collection vary from worthwhile but hardly earth-shattering (The Year of the Jackpot, the title story), to inconsequential (Sky Lift, Columbus Was A Dope, Water Is For Washing.) Still, a Heinlein fan should pick this up, though it's not really a book you should start with if you're new to the author.	2001-06-07
US	50002830	R2FBD1IT91BJLV	0441094996	271001733	The Cat Who Walks through Walls	Books	4	152	164	N	N	4 and 1/2 Stars	A lot of reviewers seem to have misunderstood this book. It is not meant to stand on it's own. I've never understood the type of reader who, when choosing which book to read first when encountering an author new to them, randomly pick a book off the shelf. This is usually a recipe for disaster in science fiction, and Heinlein is no exception. For everyone's convenience let me hereby make a list of...<br />BOOKS YOU MUST READ BEFORE READING THIS ONE IF YOU EXPECT TO LIKE IT OR HAVE IT MAKE ANY SENSE AT ALL: Methuselah's Children, The Moon Is A Harsh Mistress, Time Enough For Love, and The Number of the Beast. (Characters from The Rolling Stones, Stranger In A Strange Land, and The Man Who Sold The Moon, among others, also appear, or are mentioned, but reading those books is not necessary to understand this one.)<br />Clearly, this is a book for the hard-core Heinlein fan. Newcomers to the author should definately start elsewhere. As for this book itself... how good is it? Well, if you've read all the books I've mentioned, quite good. It starts out as a very fast-paced and cleverly told adventure story (reminiscent to 50's-era Heinlein) on a seemingly unrelated note to the books mentioned above. However, mid-way or so through, the plot changes abruptly, as The Number of the Beast did. This sudden switch is a bit annoying, because the events of utmost signifigance in the first part of the novel are not resolved until the very end of the book, and a few minor ones are not resolved at all (wait for the next book, To Sail Beyond The Sunset.) (This segment of the story is not, however, abandoned completely as some reviewers have incorrectly stated, but rather resolved at book's end. I am forced to believe that some of these reviewers did not finish the book.) In hindsight, it probably would have been better had Heinlein finished up the story started early on in the book in a more standard fashion, and then have the events in the latter part of the book fleshed out and expanded in a different book. But Heinlein was always an idiosynctric writer, and Cat is no exception. <br />Don't be turned off by the other reviews. If you are a Heinlein fan, and have read the books I mentioned, you will enjoy this book.	2001-06-03
US	50002830	R3VI8RAGFPC955	0385334206	739505736	Breakfast of Champions: A Novel	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Highly Entertaining	Breakfast of Champions has to be one of the wittiest and cleverest books I've ever read. Witty for the irrevent, and quite hilarous, first few chapters; clever for the way that the seemingly random plot elements fall together, and the ingenious way in which Vonnegut inserts himself into his own novel. (What would you do if you met your Creater? Ha!) This book doesn't have very much in the way of plot, but then, this is Vonnegut we're talking about here. The story here is really secondary to the social criticism that Vonnegut doles out. Here we get his views on many things (America, slavery, racism, pollution, sex, God) all woven into the story in a clever and entertaining way. Vonnegut has an odd way of keeping you reading, he's not a master of suspense per se, but his books are always hard to put down. For one thing, his prose is always clear and lucid, and the writing is extremely fast-paced, also he drops here and there hints of what is to come in the novel without actually spelling out the details. One would think this would make it pointless and useless to finish the book, but it has, in fact, the opposite effect. I highly reccommend Breakfast of Champions to anyone looking for a good, fast, and funny read, or to those who can appreciate something truly off-kilter.	2001-05-29
US	50002830	R2BEW6LVISYUIM	0553278223	726968599	The Martian Chronicles (The Grand Master Editions)	Books	5	51	55	N	N	A Masterpiece	The Martian Chronicles is, in many ways, one of science fiction's most important novels. It's deemed an essential read on almost all notable lists, is the book that broke Bradbury into the mainstream, and was the single most widely read SF book during the 1950's. This book is not a novel per se, but rather a collection of separately linked stories that chronicle, in about as many ways as you can imagine, Man's experiences with Mars, hence the title. Though it covers a span of time from 1999-2026, it is, like all great SF, a commentary on the times in which it was written, rather than the times it is set in. This book is a startling example of human folly. In contrast to much science fiction (from The War of the Worlds onward) the Martians in Bradbury's universe are calm, peaceful, and dreamlike (for the most part, anyway) rather than vicious and malicious. This book shows how humans-arrogant, self-righteous, and irrespectful-can and probably will ruin a beautiful, peaceful planet through ignorance and lack of respect. Also in the book are situations depicting ways in which other races we meet in space may react to us. I found these situations to be highly original and imaginative, sometimes we fail to realize that there are other ways for them to react besides peaceful, cooperative tranquility and war. Sprinkled throughout the seriousness of the stories mentioned above, are lighter, somewhat comical tales that liven up the pace a bit. Through fictional situations, this book also manages to comment on such issues as racism, slavery, social life, marriage, etc. A highly interesting read. Though it is a short read (less than 200 pages) it feels like an epic. By the time you are done with the book, you will feel like you have witnessed a saga, a great work of art, a feeling that few books indeed, much less ones this short, manage to accomplish. The last two stories in the book are startling in their differences. There Will Come Soft Rains is an utterly believable, highly pessimistic, and ultimately thought-provoking piece of work followed by The Million Year Picnic, a contrastly optimistic, hopeful story. These two situations are beautiful in their contrast and a fitting ending to a wonderful book.	2001-05-28
US	50002830	R1TZBNZ838RRKQ	0312872453	365081482	The Fantasies of Robert A. Heinlein	Books	5	40	40	N	N	A Great Collection, If You Don't Already Have This Stuff	As has already been pointed out by other reviewers, this books is an omnibus containing the contents of two previous Heinlein collections, The Unpleasant Profession of Jonathon Hoag and Waldo &amp; Magic Inc. in their entirety. So, should you buy this if you already have those two books? No, not unless you are a Heinlein obsessive who must have every book with his name on it. However, if you've never had the pleasure of reading those two books (especially Hoag, a very underrated collection, and possibly my favorite Heinlein book EVER), then you should most definately pick this up. The Hoag novella is a classic mix of fantasy and horror, and just begs to be read in one setting. &quot;They&quot; is one of Heinlein's best short stories, a paranoid, but all-too-realistic horror story of solipsism (one of RAH's pet interests.) And He Built A Crooked House is a neat &quot;gimmick&quot; short story that you will be the better for having read. &quot;Our Fair City&quot; may not be earth-shattering in plot or scope, but it is worthwhile and, in fact, quite hilarous. &quot;All You Zombies&quot; is a semi-disturbing time paradox tale. Rounding out the collection are two other novellas: Waldo, a unique early Heinlein tale that you will probably enjoy; and Magic Inc., a fairly interesting story that is quite different from anything else he ever wrote. This collection, in total, contains all of Heinlein's works that would normally be classed in the &quot;fantasy&quot; category (aside from Glory Road), and is definately worth picking up if you've never read the stories it contains before.	2001-05-27
US	50002830	R1CZKHSS8BSRUU	0345330153	504990077	Waldo & Magic, Inc.	Books	3	7	9	N	N	3 and 1/2 Stars	Both of the stories in this book are a departure from Heinlein's usual work, and neither are entirely successful. Heinlein was never one for truly &quot;hard&quot; science fiction, but the two stories here are distinctly fantasy. The first, Waldo, is the better and far more imaginative of the two. The plot and premise is highly original, and the character of Waldo is an interesting one. However, this is one of Heinlein's earliest stories and the writing style present in it pales in comparison to later efforts, and may be disappointing to those who have read a significant portion of his later work. The same goes also for Magic Inc., although here the premise is less interesting. Not a bad book by any means, but Heinlein has better. Only hard-core fans need apply here, for the newcomer to RAH he has much better to offer.	2001-05-27
US	50002830	R1IV4L1ZUH5FSM	0553291890	941430498	More Than One Universe: The Collected Stories of Arthur C. Clarke	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Excellent Material, But...	This is a copendium of some fifty-odd short stories written by Arthur C. Clarke gathered together from such previous short story collections as Expedition To Earth, Reach For Tomorrow, and Tales of Ten Worlds. Included, of course, are all of his most famous shorts... The Sentinel, The Nine Billion Names of God, The Star... etc., etc. This is a goldmine of science fiction, and anyone who calls themselves an Arthur C. Clarke, or even a science fiction fan, should have in their collection in one form or another. However, the thing is, this book is now out of print and has been replaced by the more comprehensive Collected Stories of Arthur C. Clarke. Thus, since the stories in this collection are of high quality, and many essential, ground-breaking classics, I suggest you pick the book up if you can find it, and you don't already have them. However, since this book is rare and better collections are now out, the chances of this happening are pretty slim.	2001-05-27
US	50002830	R2ZD5I1L6ZVJYT	0025258001	947198241	Arthur C. Clarke's July 20, 2019: Life in the 21st Century (Omni Book)	Books	3	8	9	N	N	Not Essential	Arthur C. Clarke is one of the 20th century's greatest writers of fiction-certainly of science fiction-and, as many of us know, of accessible science writing. However, this book is not an essential piece of his canon. It's interesting, to be sure, some of Clarke's visions of the future are novel and worth thinking about. There are several noteworthy situations outlined, including a possible scenario for World War III (this scenario however, shows the hazards of prophecy... apparently Clarke failed to forsee the fall of the Berlin Wall, for Germany is still referred to here as &quot;East&quot; and &quot;West&quot;.) A lot of the writing doesn't really sound like Clarke... especially the medical chapter, it comes off as a bit dry and boring in places, lacking his trademark wit. It almost seems as if these chapters and scenarios were written by someone else and merely edited by Clarke. I'm not knocking the book-it is interesting, nicely laid out, and very professional and highly ambitious in scope-but Clarke has SO MUCH superior material available that there's no reason for you to pick this up unless you've nearly exhausted his output.	2001-05-25
US	50002830	R1ET8PUUBOTP7D	0345350596	962163505	The Star Beast	Books	5	10	11	N	N	A Great, Quick Read	Don't be turned off by this book's &quot;juvenile&quot; tag or it's &quot;cute&quot; cover, this is a great, great read that you will highly enjoy no matter what your age. Unlike in later books, Heinlein doesn't use this book as a pulpit, but rather as sheer entertainment. Thus, this book is a good read for teenagers, and is a great book to start someone on science fiction. However, I suspect adults will actually enjoy this book more... the meat of the plot, in fact, is an intergalactic political conflict, featuring lots of behind-the-scenes manuevering and some highly entertaining courtroom scenes. A lot of this may go over the head of a younger reader. The Star Beast is well written, and reads VERY smoothly... you'll be tempted to read it in one setting, as I very nearly did. It's hard to put down. A highly enjoyable read. This is a very good Heinlein that doesn't get much recognition... pick it up.	2001-05-25
US	50002830	R3O4LEPHNQPJ06	0441359175	340611713	I Will Fear No Evil	Books	4	6	8	N	N	Worthwhile, But Not Heinlein's Best Book	This is far, FAR from being Heinlein's best book, but it is interesting and worth reading for several reasons. First off, let me make something clear: this is NOT science fiction. Now, Heinlein was never one to emphasize the hard SF elements over the human aspect, his books ultimately focused on the human condition, or were at any rate, comments on society, sex, or religion. The only part of this book that relates directly to science is a brain transplant! Yes, a brain transplant. This is, of course, aside from the fact that the book is set in the future. This is probably as close to mainstream literature as RAH ever got. Okay, so with that out of the way... why is it worth reading, you ask? For one, it has a very interesting premise: a man has his brain transplanted into the body of a woman. This sounds simple, but think of all the complications that would arise. Here Heinlein has a pulpit for the differences between men and women, and he covers just about every conceivable area. Ask yourself this... if you were and old man who had his brain transplanted into the body of a woman, would it be heterosexual to have sex with a man or with a woman? There are countless other questions like this you could ask yourself for just such a situation, and they are all addressed in this book. Another thing about this book is that it is the most sexually explicit thing Heinlein ever put out. It doesn't have the incest factor that Time Enough For Love does, but it is more generally explicit, and downright preachy in spots. On the surface the book may seem sexist, but if you delve deeper you can see this is not the case. Indeed, this book was, after release, adopted by the Women's Liberation! Though the book is long and winding (and takes even longer to read than even lengthier novels due to the heavy amount of dialogue and witty banter that you will want to re-read), you want to keep reading, not for the suspense factor (which is more or less non-existent, as indeed, are conflictsof any kind) but just to see what shocking thing Heinlein will come up with next. Okay, so with all these neat points in tow, why only four stars? Well, for one thing, the book suffers from a lack of editing. Some speeches go on and on and on (the book consists almost entirely of dialogue-indeed, a good portion of it is the main character talking to theirself) and many catchphrases are repeated several times, thus diminishing their apparent wit. However, the book is still worth reading for the reasons outlined above, also because it is that rare book that will leave you questioning your values and mores, Heinlein treads here places that most authors wouldn't touch with a 10 foot pole. And it's put over in a thoughtful way, without constantly bashing you over the head like later Heinlein efforts. Also, the ending is rather nice and poetic. This is a truly &quot;novel&quot; novel that Heinlein fans will definately want to read, but if you are new to the Dean, I suggest you read some other works of his before tackling this one.	2001-05-23
US	50002830	R2QKD5E8V0SYYL	0385333781	900157828	Player Piano: A Novel	Books	4	4	4	N	N	4 and 1/2 Stars	Kurt Vonneguts books (the ones I've read, anyway) range from very good to great. This book, his first, is not one of the great ones, as it's satrical prose is not yet refined to the perfection that he would achieve in his later works. Also, the book starts out a little slow. However, once the plot is apparent, this is just like any of Vonnegut's books in which it reads very easily and smoothly and leaves you wanting more at the end, with nary a dull moment. Not as jaw-droppingly entertaining as Cat's Cradle or Breakfast of Champions, but Player Piano is a highly interesting book with a message. Kurt is one of literature's most famous Luddites, and this book proclaims the theme, not as good as 1984 or Brave New World, but probably as good as anything since, and with the satrical view, cynicism, and biting wit that only Vonnegut could deliver. Vonnegut fans will certainly enjoy this book, as will those looking for dystopias with a little less pessimism and a little more humor.	2001-05-20
US	50002830	R3E85F6IVUK0B1	1858688493	805265921	Another Brick In The Wall	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Interesting, But Errors Bring It Down	This is an interesting and nicely presented book, but it's numerous errors keep it from being perfect. It is a useful pick up for the Floyd fan, because there is quite a bit of information on the individual tracks, as well as some background on the albums. If you are interested in buying this book, you are probably already a hard-core enough Floyd fan that you will already possess most of the knowledge that this book has to offer, but, as was with me, there will be some tidbits here and there that you did not know that you will appreciate. Also useful to the Floyd-head are the instrumentation lists for each song. There are also numerous quality pictures, many of them rare. Rounding out the book is a discography. However this book, though information-packed and presented in a high quality form, is less than perfect. THERE ARE A LOT OF ERRORS, that are more than likely simply typos, but just as annoying in the end. For example, the captions for several pictures are erronous (Waters is listed as Gilmour, etc.) and there are several errors in the instrumentation lists (Wright isn't credited for his vocals on &quot;Time&quot;, for example), and, sadly, the credits for The Wall are all fallacious. This is unfortunate because, due to the heavy presence of sessionists on the album, this is the Floyd work where a list of the musicians would be most appreciated. Also, despite the title's claim, this book does not include every Pink Floyd song. True, none that you will probably miss are excluded, but it's annoying to completists (i.e. Floyd fans.) This isn't the best Pink Floyd book out there. If you want to start, get Schaffner's A Saucerful of Secrets instead, or Crazy Diamond or Lost In The Woods if you want something relating specifically to Syd. However, if you already possess these books, or are looking for something that focuses mainly on the songs themselves, then this book is worth picking up.	2001-05-18
US	50002830	RIAI5OUE9PR08	0345404475	978657248	Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep?: The inspiration for the films Blade Runner and Blade Runner 2049	Books	5	29	32	N	N	Timeless SF	Though much science fiction of yesteryear is now dated and reads blandly, SF visionary Philip K. Dick was well ahead of his time and his best works, including this masterpiece, Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep? This book works on two levels. On the one hand, it is an exciting, fast-paced, and highly entertaining SF action adventure. This facet of the novel was, of course, captured in the movie Blade Runner. However, it also has a deeper, below the surface, entirely different meaning to it. In this book, Dick asks us what it means to be human. If you read this book and dig below the surface to the core themes, you may find that the answer may be a lot different than you think. Whatever level you take the book on, it is a masterpiece-enjoyable, entertaining, and yet literary and profound. Even the seemingly wacky title is perfect. Read.	2001-05-13
US	50002830	R2ZQVV3JEJEJL3	0803298188	12472868	The Sleeper Awakes (Bison Frontiers of Imagination)	Books	4	5	7	N	N	Not A Wells Classic, But A Good Book	This isn't one of the most famous books in Well's canon, lacking the classic status awarded to books like War of the Worlds, The Time Machine, and The Invisible Man. The Sleeper Awakes is a good book, though not one on par with those works. It drags in some places, but is on the whole interesting for it's fairly unique (for the time; like many Wells novels, this has a central plotline that has been re-done by many a faceless SF author since.) Also, the vision of the future presented here is an interesting and slightly novel one, which Wells himself, in the introduction, admits to being one that will almost certainly never come to pass, which makes this book's warning not as clear as say, 1984's or Fahrenheit 451's, but is nevertheless notable. Thus, the novel is entertaining, and, in spots, fast-paced. Recommended for the Wells fan, newcomers to the father of science fiction should start elsewhere.	2001-05-12
US	50002830	RPE1BF5QF7D24	0671721674	92373266	Glory Road	Books	4	4	5	N	N	4 and 1/2 Stars	This book came at a time in Heinlien's career where he was probably frustrated and at least fed up with haggling with editors and censors over his previous two books (Stranger In A Strange Land and Podkayne of Mars) and he probably wrote this entertaining romp just for fun. Although this book IS fantasy, it's not of the usual Tolkien or sword-and-sorcery variety, it is definately done in RAH's style, with his usual witty first-person commentary and hobby horses. However, this book is obviously different in various ways. It is very fast-paced (except for some slowdown towards the end) and is enjoyable to read. Unlike previous books such as, say, Starship Troopers and Stranger, or future books like The Moon Is A Harsh Mistress, Heinlein wasn't really writing this book with a message, it does what books are supposed to do: entertain. Thus, it doesn't leave as profound an impression on you or have you start questioning your ways like some of his more complex works, but Glory Road is nevertheless a very good and enjoyable read.	2001-05-05
US	50002830	RRI10FBWPKJZX	0345342968	383457570	Fahrenheit 451	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Fiction?	Although the author of this book, Ray Bradbury, is mainly known as a science fiction author, this book has become popular and infulential enough that it has had the fortune (or misfortune, depending on your politics) a standard book on English-lit courses. Thus, it is a widely read novel. That fact taken in stride, it's sad that it's message hasn't been more widely transmitted. Fahrenheit 451 depicts a future (definitely a not-too-distant one) in which books are illegal and society is forced to take everything as it is, without questioning &quot;why?&quot; The ironic thing about this is that in subsequent printings, this book has been edited, changed around-.... Parts were taken out of it frequently, and it frequently shows up on banned book lists. What does this say about our society? Nothing too great, I'm afraid. Pull yourself away from the meaningless masses, read this book, take it's message to heart, and try to prevent the future depicted in this book from ever coming into fruitition, and maybe we can take a detour from this headlong-forward trainwreck our society is currently apathetically riding on. As Bradbury himself has said, &quot;I'm not interested in predicting the future, I'm interested in PREVENTING it.&quot; Let's help him.	2001-04-30
US	50002830	R3T8DCTXM7JYRK	0385334176	837891915	Deadeye Dick: A Novel	Books	4	5	5	N	N	4 and 1/2 Stars	Although not Kurt Vonnegut's best novel, Deadeye Dick is an enlightening, fast-paced, and highly entertaining satrical look at the death of innocence and the randomness of life. Through the plot and the life of the protonagist, Rudy Waltz, we are shown how seemingly random and completely unforseeable events can completely change and/or wreck a person's life. Everything we do, however seemingly trivial, has a consequence. Vonnegut's writing style is as fluid and graceful as ever, with a prose, quick wit, and pace that will keep you reading. His ever-present humor and light touch with weighty subjects is apparent from the very first page. A good read that you will enjoy. If you are new to this author, I would recommend reading something like Cat's Cradle first, but this is a fine novel and recommended for all Vonnegut fans.	2001-04-29
US	50002830	R36IWWYXVA0H4C	0553074407	490740659	How the World Was One	Books	4	9	9	N	N	4 and 1/2 Stars	How The World Was One is a highly interesting history of communications from the telegraph forward, written by a true expert on the subject. The first 100 or so pages of the book focus on the invention of the telegraph, and the great and largely unknown trials and troubles that went into the laying of the first transatlantic submarine cable. This stranger-than-fiction tale is enchanced by the underlying substory of the life of such people as the &quot;great American&quot; Cyrus W. Field. Further into the book, we are told of the invention of the telephone and the subsequent impact it had on communications, and, indeed, civilization itself. Here we hear about people such as, of course, Alexander Graham Bell, and Oliver Heaviside. After this, we are treated to a true insider's view of comsats, a thing which Clarke, as is well known, played a large part in, and we are given here a reprint of his classic &quot;Short Pre-History of Comsats: Or How I Lost A Billion Dollars In My Spare Time.&quot; Due to the author's personal involvement, the subject comes off as fresh and interesting, and does not read like dry technical jargon. The same is true of the book as a whole. There are technical bits involved (indeed, in the book there is a reprint of ACC's original comsat essay &quot;Extra-Terrestrial Relays&quot;, published in Wireless World in 1945), but Clarke is a gifted writer, and the book's prose is such that it is interesting to the expert and enlightening and entertaining to the unitiated. This book is fairly hard to find, but I suggest you pick it up if you can find it, if you are looking for some good non-SF ACC, or a get-it-all-in-one-place communications history.	2001-04-28
US	50002830	RSH2DIP1X0NGK	0446321079	911557222	Profiles of the Future	Books	4	28	30	N	N	An Interesting Collection of Essays	As Clarke says in the introduction to this book, he is not, in it, trying to predict the future per se, but rather defining the boundaries in which all possible futures must lie. Hence the subtitle, &quot;An Inquiry Into The Limits of the Possible.&quot; Thus, even though the book was published in 1962 (with many of the articles written before that) subsequent advances in science (and indeed, in imagination itself) have dated it very little. On top of this, there is now a new Millennium Edition of the book out (although Amazon seems not to know of it's existence) in which ACC has updated his essays, making correction where necessary, and discussing when and where he went wrong, and mentioning when he was correct. On some topics, such as, unsurprisingly, satellite communications, he is almost dead-on accurate with the events that have occurred since the book was written. However, on the other end of the spectrum, on such subjects as future transportation methods, he was quite clearly off target. He is the first to admit this, and indeed, devotes two chapters of the book to &quot;Hazards of Prophecy.&quot; Perhaps the most interesting chapter is &quot;The Obolescence of Man&quot; in which Clarke waxes thoughtful on the future relationship between Man and Machine. It leads to some rather startling conclusions that many of the more self-important among us may be reluctant to accept. There is also a chart in the back of the book where Arthur lays out the major scientific advances of the last 150 years, and his predictions up to the year 2100. In these are such seemingly optimistic predictions as weather control by 2010 and IMMORTALITY BY 2100. The more conservative among us may be keen to laugh at such statements, but remember, this is the man who talked of broadcasting satellite TV IN 1945. Arthur is not one to be taken lightly, and this book shows why.	2001-04-16
US	50002830	R2775IMMKB7DSU	0449130703	24584033	The Number of the Beast	Books	4	10	13	N	N	Good and Interesting, But Hardly A Masterpiece	Heinlein is unquestionably one of the greatest science fiction writers to pick up a pen. He influenced the genre perhaps more than any other writer, and, when he was at his best, he wrote highly entertaining, witty, and thought-provoking novels that you could read through fairly quickly and still leave an impression on you. However, he sometimes got carried away. The Number of the Beast is a case of an aging, highly successful writer getting to write exactly what they wanted to write. Okay, so where does that leave the reader? Well, due to it's constant references to previous RAH fiction, (not to mention other writer's fiction) and assorted other esatoric meanderings, Beast is essentially a 500-page inside joke. However, if you have read a good portion of Heinlein's fiction (which, you shouldn't even consider reading this book if you haven't) you will be in one the joke. A lot of people seem not to get this book. They remark that it has no plot, no theme, or anything of the sort. These people are missing the point of the book. So, just what the hell IS Beast, you ask? It is a parody of the genre (of science fiction.) It's apparent from the very first setence, and it only becomes increasingly obvious throughout the book. There is, indeed, no real plot... the four characters just plod throughout the universes seemingly at random, having encounter after encounter that are connected, but not inherently coherent. But then, of course, just when the book seems to have lost all hope of having a point, a new element is injected into the book and it becomes a continuation of the Future History series, and yet another installement in the Lazarus Long chronicles. The ending, although entirely unrelated to the rest of the story, but it is, in a way, just a further continuation of the &quot;Number of the Beast&quot; theme, and perhaps an excuse for Heinlein to gather a bunch of his characters together, but that just expounds the parody theme, no? So, with all of this, the book isworth reading. It's not as entertaining as Heinlein's earlier work, nor as thematical or relevant, but Heinlein fans will want to read it - for the things he expounds on, and the way it ties things together. However, the book is far from perfect. It rambles on almost to the point of no return at points, and the perpetual arguments over who should be captain (which sometimes go on for pages at a time) serve absoultely no purpose and detract from the already viratually non-existent plot. But if you've read Time Enough For Love (which is a requirement before reading this book) you will be, more or less, prepared for this, and if you are a RAH fan, you will want to read it. But if you're not a hard-core fan, or are just getting into the Master's works, definately put this off until later.	2001-04-13
US	50002830	R4W3PJXA0GJ03	0345353730	2944439	Tunnel in the Sky	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Possibly Heinlein's Best &quot;Juvenile&quot;	Heinlein wrote many books intended for coming-of-age boys, but most of them are excellent books and enjoyable to anyone of any age. Tunnel In The Sky is no exception. Indeed, it may be his best attempt at the style. The book is realistic, it's not just &quot;goody-goody&quot; junk, and, in the end, it lays on you some strong moral values for teenagers. However, due to this same realism adults will love it as well. Heinlein, with this book, has pulled off that rare masterpiece that is enjoyable to all. It's an enthralling read - quick-paced, and a page turner nearly right from the start. That Heinlein, who never himself had children could pull off such provocative domestic scenes is a testament to his genius and vision. The basic plot is yet another variation on the &quot;stranger in a strange land&quot; theme, and is similar in many ways to Farnham's Freehold (not to mention other classics, like Lord of the Flies.) But, as always, RAH brings his own unique voice to the novel. The dialogue is distinctly Heinlein, as are some of the more risque elements. All in all, highly recommened reading that you will plow through pretty quickly and enjoy doing it.	2001-03-30
US	50002830	R3ZZHOA75JYXM	0345362462	105312528	Grumbles From The Grave	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Why all the negativity?	I am confused by some of the other reviews of this book. Not just by the low scores, but also with the comments therein. The majority of the complaints about the book seem to be directed at Heinlien's political views and his adamantness derived therefrom. Now this is all well and good, everybody is entitled to their opinion, but the weird this is... THERE ARE ALMOST NO POLITICS IN THIS BOOK! Okay, so what is the book about then? Well, it's exactly what you'd expect, it focuses mainly on Robert's writing career. Sure, there are a few political meanderings here and there, but they are extremely few and far between. Such off-target reviews are almost enough to make one wonder whether or not these people actually read the book. Instead, this book consists of a large body of letters that were written before and (usually) after the publication of a Heinlein opus. From his first published stories, to his juveniles, to his controversial adult novels, they're all covered here. The letters show a lot about what went into the making of his works, and also shows some other interesting things, such as the trouble that RAH seemingly always had with editors and getting his words out like he wanted to. There is also a picture and sypnosis of the original version of most of the stories and novels that RAH put out. There are also letters on various other topics (such as travel, house-building, domestic life, etc.), plus a short biography of Robert (written by his wife), and a highly convenient bibliography. My only complaint about the book is that there is almost no mention made of his books written after I Will Fear No Evil. True, this isn't his best work, but they are important, and do indeed contain some fine novels (JOB, Friday). Perhaps, due to the author's deteoriating health at this time, there weren't really any letters written. However, one wishes whatever there was was included so as to make this book complete. Thus, it's not perfect, but certainly not as bad as some otherhave apparently made it out to be.	2001-03-27
US	50002830	R1VWRWILX68I9P	0517149257	458212829	The Ultimate Hitchhiker's Guide	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Highly Convenient and Worth The Money	I don't see any reason not to recommend this book. The Hithhiker's series is one of the best, most entertaining, and certainly funniest serieses out there. Whether you're into comedy, science fiction, or just plain wackiness in your reading this book is a must. All five books in the series are here in one volume, as is the fairly inconsequential but completist short story Young Zaphod Plays It Safe, and an amusing introduction from Adams. This is a very convenient volume because it has all of these things between the same two covers, and it is bargain-priced, certainly far cheaper than buying all the books separately, plus you get the bonus short story, the new intro, etc. Highly, highly recommended.	2001-03-24
US	50002830	RWCTSL4LSP9CV	0345379330	441859006	Mostly Harmless (Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy)	Books	5	8	13	N	N	Actually Very Good	I've seen a couple of negative reviews concerning this book, but it's actually very good. No, it's not the best book in the series, but it's not the worst, either. OK, let's face it: Adams probably didn't really want to write this book. It was probably written as a finality to series so fans would stop clamoring for more sequels. A lot of people are apparently turned off by this fact, but... I don't give a damn! A good book is a good book, period. Mostly Harmless is funnier than the two previous books in the series were. Some of the many humorous elements present are Arthur's stint as &quot;master sandwich maker&quot;, the return of Ajragag, and, of course, more of Ford's zany antics (particularly hilarous is his stint with a credit card), and even the King. Yes, THE King! hehe The tone is a bit dark, granted, and the ending is even a bit depressing after having been with the series for so long, but, face it, all good things must come to an end. We begged for another sequel, and Adams gave it to us... but it's over! Get over it, get on with your life. At least the series went out with a bang (no pun intended.)	2001-03-24
US	50002830	R1NL8OQ5VR44XZ	0345391837	458212829	So Long, and Thanks for All the Fish (Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Different, but very good	As the fourth book in the Hitchhiker &quot;trilogy&quot;, this is a great novel and a step up from Life, The Universe, and Everything in quality. It starts off very funny, and the first couple of chapters are some of the most hilarous in the series, but gradually the humor slips away (for the most part), and though it is present, the central bit of the plot is, believe it or not, a love story. And a very good one, too. This change from the normal pace of the series makes the book a joy to read, and you'll probably zip through it pretty quickly. Definately read the previous books in this series first, for continuity and coherence (even though it more or less stands on it's own.) The first two books in the series were comedic masterpieces, but the third book started to slow somewhat... So Long, and Thanks For All The Fish is however, an excellent book, and a return to greatness for the series.	2001-03-21
US	50002830	R134SB6LFRQZUM	0345391829	458212829	Life, the Universe and Everything (Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy)	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Good, But No Classic	The first two books in the Hitchhiker Trilogy are among the funniest, most entertaining books that I have ever had the pleasure of reading. This, the third, is also enjoyable along those lines but not as good. Certainly it has its share of funny moments and clever writing, but it's not up to the level of the first two books (especially The Restaurant at the End of the Universe, still the funniest book I have EVER read.) Thankfully, the follow-up -- So Long, and Thanks for All the Fish -- is back up to the stellar level of the first two books. All in all, this is a good and entertaining book but slightly slow at times and perhaps a bit overlong. You'll have to read it after reading the first two, and you'll enjoy it, but don't expect a classic.	2001-03-20
US	50002830	REBHCYXCJ96EF	0345391802	458212829	The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Funny Science Fiction... yes, that's what I said	This book is satrical farce at it's absolute best. The hilarous situation and comedic dialogue (sharpened by Adams' ever-present wit) are massively entertaining and serve to make the book a quick, enjoyable romp. You can read this in a day because you won't want to put it down. As light-hearted and funny as it is however, it also has some serious undertones. Some of Adams' comments on the human condition have a dead-on accuracy that shine through the thinly-veiled comedic pretentions. This book is a must-read for all of these reasons. And besides, where else can you find the meaning to Life, The Universe, and Everything?	2001-03-18
US	50002830	R1BA05TO43BXPQ	0345391810	458212829	The Restaurant at the End of the Universe	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Funniest Book I've Ever Read	As good as The Hitchhiker's Guide To The Galaxy is, this book is better. It's longer, more unpredictable, even weirder, and certainly funnier. I lost count of how many times I laughed out loud during the course of reading this book. It is quite simply the funniest book I have EVER read. In this book such improbable (not to mention hilarous) situations as a computer trying to make tea, the disclosure of the identity of the man who rules the universe (he lives in a shack), a restaurant where you are served just as the universe is about to end, and more pop up. Read this book, it's a riot. When you read the first book in the series you'll like it and want more, and The Restaurant At The End of the Universe will satisfy your cravings... and then some. <br />Unless, of course, you forget to bring your towel.	2001-03-18
US	50002830	R2GHZIHCXRN6A7	0441821847	852451175	Tramp Royale	Books	4	15	15	N	N	Interesting, and more than just a travelogue	This is not, of course, a book that a reader new to Heinlein should pick up, but it is an absolute must-read for hard-core fans of RAH. Heinlein describes his experiences in a trip that began in the whorehouses (which he unflinchingly brought his wife into) of New Orleans to the tropical paradise of Hawaii, while hitting such interesting spots as the extremely isloated Trista da Cunha, Java, the contrasting &quot;utopias&quot; of Uraguay and New Zealand and others in-between. I found Heinlein's observations to be dead-honest, always interesting, and frequently enlightening. Of course, being Heinlein, he could not just stick a bunch of lifeless travel essays on paper and call it a book. Instead, you also get (throughout the course of the book) his views on politics, foreign policy, travel expenses and red tape, and lots more. He also gives many travel tips (some inevitably dated) to those who are interested. But perhaps the most interesting thing about the book to Heinlein fans is the inside glimpse you get of his private life. Much is shown about his relationship with his wife Virginia (who, for reasons never stated, he refers to as &quot;Ticky&quot;) and you get to see the way he operated in a given situation. Of course, a casual science fiction fan could care less about this, but to the veteran of RAH's fiction (the target audience of this book) it is a treasure trove of Heinleinia.	2001-03-16
US	50002830	R3E93MFU89X6LF	038533348X	222797251	Cat's Cradle: A Novel	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A Deathly Funny Satire	Cat's Cradle is the second Vonnegut novel I read, the first being Slaughterhouse-Five. I was highly impressed by both of them. He has become one of my favorite authors. Once again, I am amazed at Vonnegut's ability to treat deathly serious subjects so lightheartedly without trivializing them. I laughed out loud several times during the course of this book, and yet, it is no less profound than the overtly serious 1984. How can this be, you ask? The answer is that Vonnegut has discovered what Orwell, Huxley, and countless other brilliant &quot;fair warning&quot; writers failed to realize: humor is the one universal element. Many people disdain such so-called universal elements as love, religion, politics, and the like. However, NO ONE, I repeat, NO ONE, is safe from the far-reaching potential of humor. Vonnegut uses it skillfully here. I won't go into plot details here, read the book for that. What I will say is that on the surface is an entertaining and fast-paced piece of black-humored satire, and between the lines is a highly relevant novel that has, and hopefully will continue to, displace the arrogance and folly of modern Man.	2001-03-11
US	50002830	R1ANPFLA8KV388	0312878214	853264151	The Collected Stories of Arthur C. Clarke	Books	5	18	20	N	N	Absolutely Essential For Any SF Fan	Finally, at long last, we get a (very nearly) complete collection of Arthur C. Clarke's short works all in one volume. This collection is very convenient to the ACC collector, because his short works are scattered across numerous volumes (many of which are out of print) and several are uncollected. 104 stories, nearly 1,000 pages... all classic Clarke works. His first published story Travel By Wire! (1937) is here, as is his most recent Improving The Neighborhood (1999), his only collaboration The Wire Continium (with Stephen Baxter, 1998), and similar novelties. The stories range in length from 33 words to over 18,000. There is also a nice introduction from Clarke. Prefaced to each story are notes on when and where it was first published (very useful information to the Clarke collector), what ACC retrospectives it has since appeared in, and (most of the time) some brief notes on the story from Clarke. The stories collected here are widely varying, from absolute classics of the genre like The Star, The Nine Billion Names of God, The Lion of Comarre, The Wall of Darkness, All The Time In The World, Breaking Strain, etc.; to &quot;seed&quot; shorts like The Sentinel, Guardian Angel, Earthlight, The Songs of Distant Earth, The Hammer of God, etc.; to light-hearted, hilarous SF romps like the numerous &quot;White Hart&quot; tales, Trouble With the Natives, How We Got To Mars (previouly uncollected), and more. With all these extras in mind, along with the fact that it contains several previously uncollected stories, this book is essential not only to the Clarke newbie, but also to the hardcore admirer who already owns most everything he has ever written. This long-awaited omnibus is truly an absolute must-own for any science fiction fan. Period.	2001-03-08
US	50002830	R3KD15NVJGKKNJ	0752223283	838890105	Lost in the Woods	Books	4	27	28	N	N	One of Music's Saddest Stories	This highly interesting book chronicles the saga of one Roger Keith &quot;Syd&quot; Barret, founder and early lifeblood of the ground-breaking musical group Pink Floyd. It tells of Barret's early days, his influences, his non-musical interests, and how, when and why the Floyd came to be. Of course, it also chronicles his immiment decline. It is interesting to see the downward spiral that Syd rode. Not just the drugs; but the pressure of fame and success and all else. It is a very sad story. So sad indeed, that it times it can be quite unsettling. First-hand accounts from those close to Barret serve to illustrate these definite points. Of course, it also shows that Syd is still here, and we all must realize that. I recommend this book to all major fans of Pink Floyd (along with Schaffner's &quot;A Saucerful of Secrets&quot;) and particularly ones of their early work and that of Syd's.	2001-02-16
US	50002830	R16L966QA5KA68	0345430700	770295148	Earthlight	Books	4	1	2	N	N	4 and 1/2 Stars	This is not Arthur C. Clarke's best novel but is nonetheless good. The prose retains his characteristic hard-core scientific accuracy, poetic descriptions, and sly wit, but this work is also more suspenseful than most of his work. \\"Space wars\\" are an extremely common science fiction theme but extremely rare in Clarke. Earthlight, however, focuses on it and even has a full-fledged war scene.However, it is thankfully not a typically corny SF disaster but told in strikingly believable detail complete with scientific accuracy and poetic prose. This book will keep you reading. Clarke fans will definitely want it, but neophytes should get 2001, 2010, Rendezvous with Rama, or Childhood's End first.	2001-02-14
US	50002830	R3E1XR692W97WH	0553274503	571684273	Flowers for Algernon (Bantam Classic)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Fascinating, Touching, and Hard To Put Down	This is one of the most unique books I have ever read. The touching story pulls us in; we get interested in Charlie's life and find the book hard to put down. It is remarkable to watch Charlie's progress through the increasing complexity of his progress reports, and, eventually, the downward spiral. Though the book is ultimately touching, it is sad at times. The parts where Charlie is picked on by people he thinks are being nice  will surely jerk a tear or two from most. This is one of those rare works that can make you cry, laugh, and smile. It is a highly recommended literary masterpiece.	2001-02-12
US	50002830	R3BUF0I3TKXJY5	0441218911	472898047	Expanded Universe	Books	5	19	19	N	N	The Heinlein Devotee's Bible	If you are a hard-core devotee of Robert A. Heinlein's literature (not a casual fan, or someone who thought that Stranger In A Strange Land was &quot;pretty cool&quot;) then your bookshelf is essentially empty without this book. Out of the nearly 30 works collected in this volume, none are without merit. It starts out with Life-Line, as any RAH retrospective must, and also includes such early classics as Solution Unsatisfactory and Blowups Happen. However, the majority of the book are far lesser known works. Among these, those of note include a trio of non-fiction (and a couple of fictional) articles on the atomic bomb and it's consequences that Heinlein wrote after WWII. Other interesting stories include two chronicles of the Heinleins' trip to the USSR. Also of note are the predictions that RAH made for the future, and his rants on such subjects as education, politics, and religion. However, the part of the book that I enjoyed most were the forewards and afterwards that are strewn throughout the book. They often reveal a lot about the author's character (perhaps more than he intended) and occasionally show fascinating insights. Overall, I found the book to be very entertaining, funny (at times), and written in Heinlein's typical witty prose (even the non-fiction.) Absolutely essential for any major fan of the Dean's work.	2001-02-08
US	50002830	R3H9N71YQF26RZ	9993584185	504852204	Revolt in 2100: Future History, Vol. 3	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Still Stands Up	This was Robert Heinlein's very first published novel (actually a novella... but hey) and it still stands up well in the wake of all that he has published since. It has a somewhat cliched beginning, but it quickly gets past that and into a well-written story. Like a lot of early RAH, it is told in first-person, and it serves this story well. It's a pretty gripping book, and it'll keep you reading. Reccommended.	2001-01-30
US	50002830	R1FL63KCZJ1C0H	0440180295	837891915	Slaughterhouse-Five (Modern Library 100 Best Novels)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A Literary Masterpiece	This book was my first experience with Vonnegut, but it certainly will not be my last. Kurt's writing style amazed me; he has done in this book one of the hardest things to do in literature, which is to take a serious subject (and what is more serious than war?) and manage to make it funny. Mind you, this is not a comedy, but a very entertaining satire. The wit is overflowing, from the clever way in which the first chapter sets up the book, to the introduction of the character Kilgore Trout (&quot;if only he could WRITE!&quot;), to the various amusing ancedotes throughout the book. It all marks a masterpiece. Vonnegut's prose is masterful, and keeps you reading. I finished the book in two settings (nearly one) and could not hardly put it down. On the surface, his prose seems very simple, naive, and even childlike. It is told, for the most part, in an &quot;ordinary Joe&quot; sort of way, almost as if the author was sitting there with you sharing the story over a drink. This may seem unsophisticated, or not relevant to this type of subject matter, but as anyone who has actually tried to write that way knows, it is a far more difficult thing to do than writing in a customary style. When you're blazing through reading this book it may seem like merely a funny book (very black humor) with a few morals thrown in for good measure. However, when you step away from the book and look at the big picture, this is very clearly not the case. This books has some very deep meanings and themes, and is satrical to boot. War might be inevitable... but maybe death isn't as bad as we think... things happen for a reason and maybe we can't change them... whatever happens, happens for a reason, and whatever must be, must be. And so on.<br />So it goes.	2001-01-29
US	50002830	R120TUDD5O2J69	0345342445	546810848	Citizen of the Galaxy	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A Touching, Fast-Paced Read	Except for asomewhat slow middle section, this is an extremely fast-paced read and more emotional than perhaps any other Heinlein work. It's a touching story that will stay with you for a while. This is in contrast to much of Heinlein's work, which is often called preachy and heavy-handed. It is top-notch stuff:  invigorating, touching, fast-paced, thought-provoking, and memorable. I recommend it to both youths and adults.	2001-01-26
US	50002830	R11SU48Z0FUQR4	0671578650	446970651	Assignment In Eternity	Books	5	4	8	N	N	Great	Aside from the supremely corny cover art, which is almost enough to keep one from buying it, this is a truly great book. Of the four included stories, the best is \\"Gulf,\\" the leadoff. It is a short, thought-provoking story that was entertaining and kept me reading. However, it could have been on of Heinlein's all-time great short novels if expanded more. The ending, in particular, was a little too abrupt. Of the remaining stories, \\"Elsewhen\\" is an entertaining \\"What if?\\" romp. \\"Lost Legacy,\\" the other novella, is a very nice story as well.  \\"Jerry Was a Man\\" is the only story that I don't find particularly interesting, but it still has merit and doesn't hold down the rest. As Heinlein always did at his best, this book is extremely thought-provoking and may make you re-examine what you thought possible. It often leans more toward fantasy than science fiction, which may turn off some, but this is highly recommended for fans.	2001-01-21
US	50002830	R1RDI3K4L5KP8A	0060107936	660318844	Report on Planet Three and Other Speculations	Books	5	5	5	N	N	The Best Clarke You'll Probably Never Read	This book is out of print and pretty hard to find, but if you ever come across a copy of it I highly reccommend you pick it up. It is a masterpiece of speculative essays. In it, Clarke accurately predicts many things... of course lots of things about space and satellite communications, and even an accurate description of the internet! Also of note are essays on what we should do if we have contact with an alien race, a debunking of UFO sightings (much needed), a debunking of the cliche &quot;nothing is impossible&quot; with a listing of things that are, much talk on the speed of light and relativity, and of course a lot about space. The two most interesting essays in my view are one that speculates on what the Star of Bethleham (Clarke settles on a supernova). Also, there is the short essay &quot;God and Einstein&quot; which is one of the most thought-provoking things I have ever read in my life. Highly reccommended.	2001-01-15
US	50002830	R1ELMHUSMTLV3B	0312861761	562507215	The Moon is a Harsh Mistress	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Classic Heinlein	Revolution and/or war is a theme that pops up fairly frequently in Heinlein's works (Starship Troopers, Sixth Column, etc.) but he handles it a bit differently here. Instead of simply being a shoot 'em up the book focuses a lot on the planning stages of what goes into a revolution. The book is very well thought out and realistic (unlike a lot of RAH). You can believe the war put over the way it is. Also, the book is written in Lunar jive, which makes it a bit hard to read at first, but in time you'll be plowing through the chapters without even noticing it. The book is also heavily political. It would be a stretch to call this book a Rational Anarchist Manifesto, but it certainly lays down the foundation for a lot of RAH's ideas about government (or the lack thereof) and his political philosophy in general, particularly through his alter ego, the Professor. Who could forget &quot;tanstaafl!&quot;? There ain't no such thing as a free lunch. Anything free costs double in the long run or turns out worthless. You only get what you pay for. A very sound philosophy, or as it is stated in the book &quot;not philosophy, fact&quot;. Luna in 2076 is an interesting world for other reasons. First, there are the line marriages. Heinlein had introduced ideas like this in his novels before, but this is the place where it is the most well thought out. It is also interesting to see what he has people on the Moon doing for industry and agriculture, as well as their relations with Earth. This is one of Heinlein's more perpetually interesting novels, reccommended to any devotee or SF fan.	2001-01-07
US	50002830	R3BPH6K57ENQ1C	0345430735	700141921	Expedition to Earth	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Several Great Stories	This book shows why Arthur C. Clarke is a great writer. As the quotation on the front of the book so aptly puts it &quot;In his fiction he thinks at once like a poet and like an engineer-and writes, at his best, like an angel&quot;. Indeed. Of the stories in this collection, several stand out. Superiority was issued as required reading at MIT's Engineering courses after publication. &quot;If I Forget Thee On Earth...&quot; is a nice short piece that is in Freshman Literature books. The Sentinel, was, of course, the &quot;inspiration&quot; for 2001. Second Dawn and Exile of the Eons are two other good stories in here. But my personal favorite from this collection is History Lesson, a seemingly very serious story with a last sentence that will have you howling with laughter. Typical Clarke wit. This is a nice book for the ACC fan.	2001-01-02
US	50002830	R33XY3NJON2LK8	0345316509	380323119	Job: A Comedy of Justice	Books	5	6	6	N	N	A Wild Satire	This book pleasantly surprised me. I don't know what I was expecting, but it wasn't the deliciously wild satire I got. The book started out as a fairly typical (though thoroughly enjoyable) Heinlein &quot;stranger in a strange land&quot; story. But then, about half-way through, the book took on a completely unexpected twist, I for one had no idea the book was going the direction it took. The book was very good and it kept me glued to my seat. Outside of The Moon Is A Harsh Mistress, which most consider Heinlein's peak, I'd call this the very best of RAH's post-Stranger fiction. <br />The novel, being a satire at heart, has some seemingly very deep themes in it, it focuses heavily on religious aspects and is somewhat irrevant. The many underlying themes have their meanings that I think we can each take in our own personal way, though what Heinlein's actual intended message was is anyone's guess. Read it and judge for yourself.	2001-01-02
US	50002830	R1J14F5A7B41PY	0671876716	44071865	Podkayne of Mars	Books	5	1	1	N	N	An Engrossing Read	Not as intellectual as some of RAH's other books, this is a more &quot;down to earth&quot; story. The protoganist is a coming-of-age female who narrates the book with her engrossing viewpoints and childhood naivety. One might say this is a juvenile novel, as it is short and has the obligatory teenage lead character, but on the other hand this book is somewhat self-indulgent (consisting of a pretty big vocabulary) and has some underlying themes and preachiness (especially in the original ending) that may be lost on younger readers. What this accomplishes in the end however, is making the book where both young adults and adults will enjoy the book. Although not really suspenseful, this book does mangage to make you keep reading it, and the characters are all very nice (I especially got a kick out of Podkayne's brother, Clark). Not Heinlein's best book, but you'll like it if you're a fan. Pick it up.	2000-12-30
US	50002830	R19ADQKFKET8Y4	0060392932	937507546	To Hell and Back: An Autobiography	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Just Nearly 5 Stars	Meat's story is incredible, it rivals most fiction I've read. No movie made out of this book could ever do it justice, this is coming from the man himself. Once you get used to the rambling style in which the book is written, you will read it very fast. I sit down to read this book and before I knew it I was half-way through with it. I then put it down for a while to eat and then came back and finished it. It's a very quick read and a very good read. The way Meat tells his story is in a very personal and intimate way, almost as if he's sitting right there talking to you. I learned a lot about Meat that I didn't know before from this book. For example, the extent of his background in theater, a lot about how Bat Out of Hell was conceived and recorded, and an incredible account of the perils he went through after he lost it all. I also enjoyed the background on the supremely interesting Jim Steinman. I wish Jim would write his own autobiography.<br />However, there were a couple of things about this book that could've been improved, which is why I didn't give it 5 stars. For instance, there are many pictures in the book (always a plus) but none of them have captions! Half the time I couldn't tell what the hell the picture was supposed to be showing. Also, the book focuses relatively little on the Bat Out of Hell II album, the only song it really says anything about is &quot;I'd Do Anything For Love (But I Won't Do That)&quot;. I wish he would've went in-depth on that album like he did with the first Bat. Also, it doesn't say anything about Meat's plans for the future in music. This is somewhat disappointing considering that we've heard relatively little from Meat Loaf after Bat Out of Hell II was released 7 years ago. I'm keeping my fingers crossed on a third Loaf/Steinman collaboration...<br />Anyways, although this book has it's shortcomings, it is a diamond mine for any true Meat Loaf fan, or indeed for anyone who wants to read the account of one of the most astonishing human experience stories of our times.	2000-12-26
US	50002830	R1MSL4NCCQL0M1	0345378490	694344232	Congo	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Classic Crichton	Having previously read all of Michael Crichton's published fiction as well as some of his non-fiction, I approached this novel with some disdain, knowing it would be the last Crichton book I would read until he puts a new one out. However, the high quality helped erase these feelings somewhat. This is one of Crichton's better books. The suspense is absolutely non-stop; I was glued to my proverbial chair. I lost count of how many times I said, \\"I'm just gonna read one more page...\\" and then ended up reading for another hour. It's that hard to put down, and it's hard not to be thinking about the book and its characters whenever you're not reading. As with most Crichton works, the plot relies heavily on technology and technical discussions, and since it was published twenty years ago, it is a little outdated in some respects (256K memory modules!). On the other hand, I learned a LOT about gorillas and the Congo and other things. The weird thing is, I've seen this bashed a lot of places, even by fans. I don't understand this. This is not Crichton's best but still has all the elements that make classic Crichton (suspense, technical babble, realistic plot), so I don't see how anyone could fail to like it if they like other Crichton books. If you are a fan, I suggest you pick this up.	2000-12-22
US	50002830	R1KN8KJS6TC6OJ	0151739226	268137662	Prelude to Mars: An Omnibus Containing the Complete Novels Prelude to Space and the Sands of Mars and Sixteen Short Stories	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A Good Collection	This collection houses the classic novels Prelude To Space (ACC's first published novel) and The Sands of Mars, as well as a good amount of short stories broken up into two categories: On The Light Side and On The Serious Side. On The Light Side contains a handful of stories from Clarke's classic sci-fi comedy collection Tales From The White Hart, as well as the hilarous short story Trouble With The Natives. On The Serious Side contains Clarke stories from various places that focus on the more serious aspects of science fiction. Included in it are several selection from the Reach For Tomorrow collection and a few other places, as well as the longer short stories Exile of the Eons and Second Dawn. This is a good collection to pick up if you are a Clarke fan because it has a lot of good material in it, and is also an added bonus because much of it contained within is hard to find. Grab this if you can find it.	2000-12-15
US	50002830	RS3TK4EMSPN0V	0151792909	402419376	The Sands of Mars,	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Classic Clarke	Although not one of his absolute best stories, The Sands of Mars is a classic work of science fiction and one which has held up well over time. It starts out a little slow at first, but once the story gets a bit into the Mars landing part of the book it increasingly picks up steam. Once again, in the climax of the book, Clarke has a seemingly impossible thing happen and describes it in such a way as to make it believable. Maybe that is the mark of a good science fiction writer. Also, the characters in this book, unlike some other works of Arthur's where the characters tend to be flat and somewhat dull, are quite believable and likable. Certainly you should read 2001: A Space Odyssey, Rendezvous With Rama, and Childhood's End first, but if you are an Arthur C. Clarke fan then you should definately pick up The Sands of Mars.<br />On a sidenote, ignore the reviewer below who refers to this novel as &quot;Part of Clarke's one novel per planetary body pulp series&quot;. This is simply a ridicilous statement. First off, ACC DOES NOT have one novel per planetary body, and he, being of the leading and perhaps pioneering practicioners of hard SF, certainly does not write pulp. Indeed, if you read this book as part of the omnibus Prelude To Mars, you will read in the preface to Prelude To Space that that novel took Arthur 20 days to conceive and write, which is a record he has never since come close to equalling. Yeah, sounds like pulp to me. Sure. Forget the negative commentary and enjoy the book.	2000-12-15
US	50002830	R1UXJXKU76M0WF	0345330145	428889418	Puppet Masters	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Top-Notch Heinlein	Another early Heinlein masterpiece. This book is signifigant for several reasons. First, it has a standard type plot (alien invasion) but is told with a twist, and from a different viewpoint than are most novels of this type. Also, this has the most believable cast of characters that I have ever encountered in the Heinlein universe. Out of all the RAH's I have read I think this one would make the best movie (actually, there is a movie of it, but I've never been able to find it). This is seamless science fiction (though it is rather light on actual science): tight plot, believable characters, exquisite dialogue, and a sense of suspense. What more could you ask for? Read this book.	2000-12-07
US	50002830	R1DWW10ZOTOACM	0345330137	387028775	Double Star	Books	3	3	4	N	N	3 and 1/2 Stars	This is a Heinlein, so it is worth reading. It's an interesting story, with a unique plot (for science fiction) at least, and is a politically charged work, for those who like that side of Heinlein. In reality, this book could easily exist outside the genre of science fiction, so readers who don't normally like SF might dig this book. That said, this isn't one of Heinlein's best stories. There is almost no science whatsoever (not that unusual for RAH, but alas), the dialogue isn't up to his usual standards, and the story never really picks up steam like you expect it to.<br />So, all in all, this is a book for the Heinlein devotee to pick up after they have already read most of his best work, an RAH newbie should look elsewhere. A good book, but I can't see why it won a Hugo.	2000-12-02
US	50002830	R3MQYRC6YN2LJW	0553348221	336570034	Astounding Days: A Science Fictional Autobiography (A Bantam spectra book)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	4 and 1/2 Stars	Perhaps it is inaccurate to call this an autobiography. A good portion of it (particularly the first part of the book) is Arthur critiquing the early issues of Astounding Science Fiction magazine. Later, he tells quite a bit about his own life, but mostly this is a memoir of his experiences with Astouding. It is interesting for several reasons: first, we learn what Clarke thinks of a great many of his colleagues (including heavies like Asimov and Heinlein, both friends of Arthur's). But what makes the book really interesting for the hard-core ACC reader is later in the book where he tells a lot about his own life. We learn of his experiences at college, as a civil servant, and his time in the military. We also get a lot of his views and ideas on many things relating to science, as well as a good deal he says about his own subsequent books, the ideas behind them, and how the writing of other authors influenced him. And of course the book is all written in Clarke's trademark witty style. <br />This will all seem very boring for the casual Clarke reader, or for those who only know him as &quot;that guy who did 2001&quot;. But for those true fans who recognize Arthur for what he is, a brilliant, creative, and witty writer who is unquestionably one of the literary greats of the 20th century, and possibly the greatest science fiction writer of all-time. The only thing about this book that disappoints me is that ACC elaborates so little on his own works for Astounding. I figured that would be the main point of the book, but it isn't; although he mentions many times his works, they are rarely the ones found in Astounding. Still, this is a worthwhile and book for the Clarke devotee; casual fans should look elsewhere.	2000-11-28
US	50002830	R1PIZUZLQT78G8	0441810764	163941388	Time Enough for Love	Books	4	18	21	N	N	4 and 1/2 Stars	Since I came to the conclusion that this was the weirdest book I've ever read (and I've read quite a lot) before I was even half way through it, I decided to come on here and see what other people thought about it. It seems that the reviewers are split into two camps: those who give it a 1-star rating because of it's weirdness and controversial morals, and those who give it 5-star ratings out of blind worship of Heinlein while ignoring it's weaknesses. I waded through about 60 reviews, and there didn't appear to be very many subjective ones, so I'll attempt to provide one here.<br />First off, the strengths. As always with Heinlein, my favorite part about the book is the witty dialogue. Just reading the conversation between the characters, even when it does little to advance the plot, is immensely entertaining to me. I realize that there's probably not any &quot;real&quot; people who talk like this... but that doesn't make it any less entertaining. Other strengths include the many entertaining individual adventures, topped with the icing on the cake, Lazarus Long's delicious banter on all things Heinlein (Long's alter-ego) cared to comment on. These comments come to a headway on the two-part Notebooks of Lazarus Long. Some of these quotations, while not the revelatory statements some reviewers have claimed, are nonetheless both witty and worthwhile, and many hit home. Heinlein does tend to preach quite a bit, bordering on too much at times; such as the page-spanning sermons on how to raise children, this coming from a man who himself was childless. But please remember, this IS a work of FICTION. The book is broken up into many individual segments and stories, and because of this you will probably enjoy it more if you read the novel in bits and pieces, rather than large portions at once. My favorite part is the latter section of the book where Lazarus embarks on time travel, it could've easily been a book in itself; and a damn good one too.<br />Now to the weaknesses. Heinlein's controversial views on sex and moral values, while not as disturbing to me (having read many a Heinlein) as others, are nonetheless unsettling in places, and occasionally detract from the book. I don't have a problem with Lazarus Long knocking up just about every female character he comes into contact with, but I can't say I was indifferent to the book's excessive amounts of incest. Heinlein goes to pains (and I mean pains; chapter-length dialogue segments on the improbability of defects through screened and tested incestous relationships) to seemingly shed a positive light on what many consider the very blackest of sins. I don't know exactly how Heinlein came to take this controversial stance, some of his previous novels (Farnham's Freehold, for instance) hinted at it, but it never came out into the open like this. However he came upon it he stuck with it, as the issue clouds subsequent novels like The Number of the Beast and To Sail Beyond The Sunset. It crops up often in this book; not that unsettling, just a little immature. That's really the only thing in this book you could call a weakness, other than it's tendency to go on a little too long at points (kinda like this review, eh?), many of the individual stories are novella-length. The Tale of the Man Who Was Too Lazy To Fail should've been left out, it's completely useless to the story and boring. The lengthy Tale of the Twins Who Weren't is long, but entertaining in it's sheer strangeness. The 140+ page Tale of the Adopted Daughter is a very sentimental piece that has undoubtedly brought some to tears. <br />All in all, an excellent (and weird, in the best sense of the word) book that you should enjoy unless you are put off by the controversial sex/incest issues. But then, if that were the case, you probably wouldn't be looking at reviews of post-Stranger RAH would you? Read and enjoy.	2000-11-22
US	50002830	R1J6I6G6AGSYGF	0345333152	156455287	The Straight Dope	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Insightful, Funny, and Entertaining	Ever ask yourself questions, seemingly silly (&quot;What if...&quot;, &quot;How does...&quot;, or &quot;Hmmm... you know...&quot;) that you think are interesting but will never be answered? Sure you do. Well, THEY ARE ANSWERED IN THIS BOOK. Most of them anyway. Tons of questions of this type are answered in this book with humorous and insightful commentary from the one and only Cecil Adams. I personally have spent many, many hours wading through the vast Straight Dope archives. Pick up this book and you will probably do the same. If you a person who wonders about slightly off-kilter, perhaps unscientific topics, then this book is for you, it'll be a Godsend. The various sequels are good, if not quite on this one's level. Pick them up if you get addicted, but definately start here. Highly reccommended.	2000-11-22
US	50002830	R17BNK8VK3E5FV	0671577808	504852204	Revolt in 2100 & Methuselah's Children	Books	5	13	19	N	N	3 1/2-4 stars for Revolt, 5 for Methuselah's Children	The two books (and four stories) that are included in this collection include the two most famous of the &quot;Future History&quot; stories, -If This Goes On and Metheselah's Children (the entire series in in the omnibus short story collection The Past Through Tomorrow as well as in the two previous collections The Man Who Sold the Man and the Green Hills of Earth). If This Goes On is a good story once you get into it. It starts out a little bit too cliched at first, and is perhaps a bit unrealistic, but it is a good reader and a page-turner. The next two stories, the shorts Covenant and Misfit aren't that good in themselves (although Covenant starts out very well) serve to set up the last story in the collection, Methuselah's Children.<br />Now, MT, on the other hand, is one of the best Heinlein stories that I have thus far read. The story is very exciting, fast-paced and suspenseful, it is also a page-turner. Oh, and it stars LAZARUS LONG. Required reading before you dive into Time Enough For Love. The only thing I don't like about this otherwise excellent story is that Heinlein says that the Howard Families enjoy what is basically immortality simply because they selectively bred families that had histories of long lives. This is impossible. But then again, Heinlein never was a &quot;hard&quot; SF writer, indeed he basically introduced the social aspects into science fiction, which is the main underlying theme and foundation of these stories (and indeed of the entire Future History).<br />All in all, reccommended reading for Heinlein fans.	2000-11-04
US	50002830	R34HPR1LEHHSCC	0345341023	247946769	Prelude to Space	Books	4	22	24	N	N	The Prelude To It All	Despite the fact that this was Arthur's first published novel (came out in 1951), it is one of his most interesting in many ways. First, note the date I listed above of it's publication. That's right, it came out several years before Sputnik (much less Apollo) and yet still offers up numerous technical-drenched in-book conversations detailing the ins and outs of rockets and spaceships. Arthur describes an elaborate plan of how to build and execute a spaceship, many of which were taken into account in the eventual building of the first spaceships (ACC placed the first Moon landing in 1977, and thought he was being optimistic), and several of which we have yet to fulfill. An interesting thing to note is that he uses atomic technology for the spaceships.<br />Aside from what I already mentioned above, there are several othe prophetic things in this book. For example, Clarke mentions an array of satellites positioned above earth to be used for communications purposes (this is written by the man who invented the Com-Sat, after all), and this book was written in 1947!<br />Also, Clarke fans will notice that this lays the foundation for many of his later works. It is a Prelude To Space in more ways than one. For one thing, he mentions in the book how we will attempt to colonize the Moon, something that has been done in the majority of his subsequent novels. It makes one wonder why we haven't done this in real life. Also, in an ironic twist of fate, the novel ends with the earth at the turn of the century, in the year 2001! Truly amazing stuff.<br />This is a good story in and of itself, and it is interesting to go back and read older (pre-Apollo) books like this and see how close they were to the real thing. As interesting as it would have been to read a groundbreaking (back then) book as this at the time it first came out, it is just as interesting, if not more so, to read such a book now.	2000-10-30
US	50002830	R1G8KSJMGJ9ORH	0441854575	741672094	The Unpleasant Profession of Jonathan Hoag	Books	5	2	2	N	N	My Favorite RAH	This is my favorite book by Heinlein that I have read thus far. It is actually a collection of short stories, with the title novella being the longest one. It is truly a good story. Not hard science fiction, but more of a mystery. SF fans and non-fans alike will like this story, it is very suspenseful and a real page turner.<br />The other stories are The Man Who Traveled In Elephants, a throwaway; All You Zombies, a good story that is probably the weirdest story from an author known for weird storie; They, a very thought-provoking story, with feelings from the main character that I'm sure we've all felt at one time or another; Our Fair City, a hilarous short story that had me laughing out loud numerous times; and He Built A Crooked House, another grand tale that will leave Geometry experts saying &quot;Hmmm...&quot;.<br />Read this book. It is one of those books that you will just find near impossible to put down, and you will regret it when you finally do.	2000-10-24
US	50002830	R1O2G4IEYQM5ZK	9992250372	86567931	Fountains of Paradise	Books	5	2	3	N	N	A Forgotten Classic	When people talk about ACC's best books The Fountains of Paradise is rarely mentioned. And although it's not quite as good as 2001, Rendezvous With Rama, The City and The Stars, or Childhood's End, it is certainly just a step below them. The book is an interesting mix of SF and historical fiction. It's not the same type of story that Clarke usually delivers, but equally good. The mentions of the space elevator (though not original) are fascinating, not to mention many of the other things in the book. <br />It's a crying shame that they let this book go out of print, it needs to be reissued. Try to find a &quot;mom and pop&quot; used bookstore somewhere (or use the auctions or Z-Shops here at Amazon) and pick you up a copy of this book.	2000-10-23
US	50002830	R1A5FCV21RLCC0	061313639X	797995088	Have Space Suit, Will Travel	Books	5	40	40	N	N	Don't Be Fooled By The Intended Age...	This book is good reading for anyone. I reccommend it especially to young science fiction fans, or younger readers who want a good first taste of sci-fi. However, this book is excellent no matter who you are. I am an experienced science fiction reader, and I put this book right up there with anything else by Heinlein. Sure, it doesn't have the free love bits and controversial stuff of RAH's later works, but that's not why you started reading Heinlein in the first place anyway, is it?<br />This book is a science fiction classic, period.	2000-10-22
US	50002830	R1SC7QUWMS1QQO	0316769487	862964341	The Catcher in the Rye	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Open-minded Teenagers Will Like It	Are you a high school student who isn't in the &quot;cool&quot; group? Are you constantly ridiculed and/or picked on? Or are you just cynical and mad at the world? If you are any or all of these things, this is the book for you. It is your bible. Holden Caulfield IS you. Sorta. And he IS me. Sorta. We can relate.<br />That is what makes the book so good, it is realistic and believable. It could happen to anyone. In fact, it happens, more or less, to hundreds, maybe thousands, of teenagers every year. Out of all the characters in popular literature, Holden is probably the most &quot;real&quot; to his readers, with the possible exception of Sherlock Holmes. I know people who thought this was a true story and wondered why the author's name didn't match Holden's. <br />All this is not to say that only teenagers will like the book. They are more likely to like it, but anyone could like it. It is a realistic description of the world. Many of the things said in the book about human nature are so dead-on accurate that is it damn near scary.<br />SPOLER ALERT. The sad ending, where Holden ends up in a mental ward is depressing. One can only wonder what would've happen if he had gotten his cabin in the woods like he wanted...	2000-10-12
US	50002830	R24O9HJVW4HKX	0967571294	179381736	Ninth Day of Creation	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A Must For Fans of Science Thrillers	Leonard Crane's Ninth Day of Creation is an excellent science thriller that has unfortunately been a bit overlooked. It is not nearly as well known as it should be, this is truly an excellent book. Indeed, this is the best book of it's type that I have read in a long time not written by a certain M. Crichton. This book deals with complex science issues (biological weapons, search for the cure for AIDS, protein folding, etc.) that will appeal to readers who like a science slant to their novels. However, it also has a thriller and suspense aspect. Anyone should like this book. <br />Reccommended for Crichton fans!	2000-10-07
US	50002830	R3FD626RY6EH91	0441228348	212768920	Farnham's Freehold	Books	4	8	10	N	N	4.9 Stars	I recently read Heinlein's Stranger In A Strange Land, liked it, and decided to read some more of RAH's works. So I went to the bookstore looking for The Number of the Beast, the Heinlein I had decided to read. I didn't see it on the shelf, but I did see a book called Farnham's Freehold. As I had never heard of this book before, I took it off and looked at it. The strange cover (as if the title wasn't strange enough) intrigued me, as did the subheading &quot;Science fiction's most controversial novel&quot;. Hmmm... Then I read the summary on the back of the book and decided to buy it. And then I read it.<br />What can I say? I liked the book. But it's not for everyone. It is very light science fiction (but then so are most (all?) of Heinlein's), but the overall story itself is complex. It shows a future world where blacks are the predominant race, and whites are slaves. Lots of other things too; cannibalism, free love (Heinlein for you), racial slurs, and constant reference to women as &quot;sluts&quot;. Etc., etc., etc. However, all this is in here for are reason. This book is more satire, than sci-fi. It is a bit like 1984 or Brave New World at times, like other Heinlein works at others, but in the end, definately in a class of it's own.<br />Don't go into this book expecting to read another Strange In A Strange Land, or Starship Troopers. It's not. It's different. Not something for everyone, but possibly everything for someone.	2000-09-20
US	50002830	R3N5LFGM85ZDLL	0140186409	999720718	The Grapes of Wrath (20th Century Classics)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Unbelievably Touching	This is one of the few works of fiction that is truly heart-wretching,  that is capable of bringing people to tears. Not only that, but although it  is a work of fiction, it is a truly believeable story, and not only COULD  it happen, but it DID, many times over. Many families went along a similar  route to the Joads during the depression and the Dust Bowl. That is why  this book leaves such a profound impact on people, it tells us a little bit  more about ourselves than we maybe want to know.<br />Being from Oklahoma,  this story really hit home for me. There is a part where the Joads are  trying to head North, away from Hooverville, and they are stopped, the  policeman tells Tom &quot;We don't want you goddamn Okies here&quot;. Tom  wants to hit the man with a jack, but Ma won't let him, and he, stone cold  Tom Joad, cries. This is a moving scene, and there are many such ones in  the book. This is highly reccommended.<br />Also, DO NOT READ THE EDITORIAL  REVIEW AT THE TOP OF THIS PAGE OR THE INTRO AT THE FRONT OF THE BOOK IF YOU  HAVE NOT ALREADY, THEY GIVE AWAY THE ENDING, AND A LOT OF OTHER THINGS TOO!	2000-09-04
US	50002830	R1P6WNL4Z1OFNQ	0718127641	125173182	Bare-faced Messiah: True Story of L. Ron Hubbard	Books	5	39	45	N	N	Read This Instead of Dianetics	If you are thinking about reading Dianetics or any such LRH book, or even (gasp!) joining Scientology, I urge you to read this book first. It exposes  Hubbard for who he really was (or is, as some would say). He was not a war  hero, a nuclear physicist, or any of the other multitude of things that he  claimed to be. Such fanatical claims are to be believed (unlike the  Scientology bull) because the book is exhaustively researched, with an  extensive bibliography and with many footnotes. Seriously, L. Ron Hubbard  was an evil, paranoid, and highly complex individual, although  unquestionably a brilliant man. Many of the things that he did are  disturbing, it is amazing that people would eat all of his dogma and do all  of the ridicilous things that he asked. A brilliant read.	2000-08-23
US	50002830	RITQWA1XKYDAY	0449208133	868223008	Lucifer's Hammer	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Best &quot;End-of-the-World&quot; Story In Existence!	Yeah, I know what you're thinking. &quot;Another 'comet or asteroid threatens to hit the Earth story&quot;. True, but this one's different: it  actually hits. And once it does, the suspense starts. Lucifer's Hammer is  one good yarn, not only because of the suspense, but because of the  believable characters and situations. True, it is science fiction (sort  of), but the science (which there is actually little of, and not all of it  flawless) takes an extreme backseat to the story itself. You don't have to  be an SF fan to like Lucifer's Hammer. There are a lot of stories (not to  mention movies) that have this same premise, but none are as good.	2000-08-20
US	50002830	R2PMVCCA84QGN3	0345430719	41517404	Reach for Tomorrow	Books	5	3	4	N	N	A Good Collection of Shorts	Having previously read the two best stories in this collection  (&quot;Rescue Party&quot;, a masterpiece and Clarke's first published  story, and &quot;Jupiter Five&quot;, a believable exploration of Jupiter's  closest moon) I did not like this book as much as I would have if I had not  read those two masterpieces. If I hadn't I would certainly have given this  book a 5 star rating. Anyways...<br />There are other good stories here too,  of course. &quot;Technical Error&quot;, &quot;The Fires Within&quot; and  &quot;The Possessed&quot; are standouts, among others. In fact, there are a  wide variety of SF styles in this collection. But it's the two stories I  mentioned that are the centerpieces of this book. If you haven't read any  of the short stories in this book then rack my rating up a star.	2000-08-05
US	50002830	R2TCBBA919995V	0345359321	486440079	Travels	Books	5	13	19	N	N	A Delightful Autobiography	Right off the bat, you know that this will be a &quot;different&quot; kind  of autobiography than the kind we are used to. After all, not many authors  would choose to begin an essay on their own life with the words &quot;It is  not easy to cut through a human head with a hacksaw&quot;, but Crichton  does.<br />The first part of the book is a short but interesting section  detailing Michael's adventures during his 4 year tenure at Harvard Medical  School. It is an interesting story told from the &quot;other side&quot; of  the medical profession. I reccommend one of MC's other non-fiction books  Five Patients, to anyone who likes this section.<br />The bulk of the book, of  course, is the latter section focusing on Crichton's travels. Told are many  fascinating (and true) stories of experiences in such out-of-the-way places  as Hunza, New Guinea, Mount Kilimanjaro, not to mention Hong Kong and  various underwater expeditions. Also included in the &quot;Travels&quot;  section are some of Michael's many inner journeys. He talks of psychic  phenomenon, future-reading, spoon bending, and the like. I found his  insight on psychics extremely interesting. <br />I reccommend this book to  anyone who wants a &quot;different&quot; kind of autobiography, and who  wants to know about people's &quot;innter journeys&quot;, not just outer  ones.	2000-08-04
US	50002830	R2RDMWKUSI6NOA	0884046818	894828266	Battlefield Earth: A Saga of the Year 3000	Books	5	36	50	N	N	Hilarous, Pulp, Sci-Fi At It's Best	... I must say that Battlefield Earth is one incrediblebook. It is not the most well-thought-out novel in the world, but itis extremely entertaining and a real page-turner. Also, it can be said that although the book is over 1,000 pages long (and with SMALL type!) it very rarely gets boring. <br />That said, there are some things about it that may turn off some people. Namely, some of the things in the book are incredibly cheesy. The hero's name is &quot;Jonnnie Goodboy Tyler&quot; for God's sake! Speaking of names, so many characters in this book have ridicilous names &quot;Duneeldeen, Glencannon, Zzt, Robert The Fox, Schleim, Jambitchows&quot;, not to mention the Basher &quot;Bash Our Way To Glory Tank&quot;, the alien &quot;psychlos&quot;, and Jonnie's father &quot;Timothy Brave Tyler&quot;.  Also, there are some rather poor stereotypes in this book.<br />Again, I believe that the action, suspense, and the epic scope that this book portrays will EASILY counter out any cheesiness that the story has. Think &quot;Star Wars&quot;, with a good dose of Douglas Adams.	2000-07-29
US	50002830	R22MAYDO2DBUFP	090571282X	11986816	Arthur C. Clarke: 2001/A Space Odyssey, the City and the Stars, the Deep Range, a Fall of Moondust, Rendevous With Rama	Books	5	6	6	N	N	5 Masterpieces!	This collection has 5 ACC stories, and among them 3 of the best science fiction stories of all-time. You will be hard-pressed to find an SF fan who will tell you that 2001: A Space Odyssey, Rendezvous With Rama, and The  City &amp; The Stars are not three of the best science fiction books ever  written. And the reason, is simply because they ARE three of the best! Each  one is a masterpiece in it's own right, the kind of future story that could  only have come from Arthur C. Clarke. No one else could've written these  books. That's not to discount the other two stories in this collection: The  Deep Range (which is a good book about the sea (not space!) which a very  poetic ending), and A Fall of Moondust, another ACC classic. If Amazon ever  gets this book back, be sure to order it!	2000-07-25
US	50002830	R1SE4Y21LQJLTN	0517182459	753552111	Michael Crichton: Two Complete Novels	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Two Excellent Novels	This omnibus contains two excellent and controversial masterpieces of suspense. Rising Sun is a great crime mystery and also shines light on the business tactics of the Japanese, albeit with a bit of paranoia. This may  seem ironic now, since the Japanese economy is NOT what it used to be, but it is an interesting footnote and a very good novel nonetheless. In his next book, 1994's Disclosure, Crichton continues his habit of writing about issues of the day. It is the famous and controversial story of a man who gets sexually  harrassed by a woman -- his best book in my opinion. Get this  excellent collection if you haven't already read these two works.	2000-07-24
US	50002830	RTI7M8887IBP0	0140057072	111782299	A Study in Scarlet (Classic Crime)	Books	5	18	24	N	N	Holmes Meets Watson!	This is where it all began, the very first Sherlock Holmes story. If you want to read all 60 Holmes adventures in chronological order (as you should) then by all means make this the first Holmes book that you ever  read. They are all literary masterpieces, and this was the first one! Out  of the 4 Holmes novels, I would rank this third, behind the Valley of Fear  and the Hound of the Baskervilles. I will spare you the plot details, you  can do that elsewhere. Just get and read this book and it will start you on  a fascinating and extremely entertaining journey through Conan Doyle's  world of Sherlock Holmes, one of the most widely recognized, and best,  figures in all of literature.	2000-07-24
US	50002830	RABNK32W54JXA	0517084791	586373136	Three Complete Novels: The Andromeda Strain, The Terminal Man, and The Great Train Robbery	Books	5	14	14	N	N	Three Great Books In One	This collection houses Michael Crichton's first three novels in one convenient place. The Andromeda Strain was his first book, and it is a sci-fi thriller involving a virus found in space. Also destroys the alien  stereotype! It is one of the best books of modern science fiction, and is  considered by many to be his best book. The Terminal Man was his second  novel, and while actually being one of his weaker books, it is better than  most stuff by other writers. People who don't believe that you can put  computer chips in people's brains, read this book and prepare to be amazed.  The Great Train Robbery is one of MC's finer works. It is set in Victorian  London and involves a master criminal trying to rob a train (duh). Anyways,  it is a very good book, and in it simple things like stealing a key are  made exciting because of Crichton's writing style. Think Sherlock Holmes  from the criminal's point of view.<br />Buy this if you haven't read these  books, but if you have then just find a Crichton you haven't read.	2000-07-24
US	50002830	R1G2IHHACJ4JNA	0425098389	433082915	The Adventures of Sherlock Holmes (Sherlock Holmes Mysteries (Penguin))	Books	5	2	3	N	N	The Original Short Stories	This is the first set of short stories written by Doyle that furthered the adventures of Sherlock Holmes beyond the first two novels. This volume has many of the greatest Holmes shorts: &quot;The Red Headed League&quot;,  &quot;The Five Orange Pips&quot;, &quot;A Case of Identity&quot; and  others. Also, there are stories in this volume where Sherlock gets beaten!  Yes, he doesn't solve the crime! A must-read indeed.	2000-07-24
US	50002830	R14QUVD91D911L	0345408330	105653958	Twister: The Original Screenplay	Books	4	14	14	N	N	Above Average	This is a pretty good screenplay to a pretty good movie. Interesting fact: it isn't the final version. In fact, there are a lot of differences. But simply put:  if you like Michael Crichton's novels, you will like this, as it has more of his trademark realistic science and suspense. However, the plot is somewhat cliched, and the ending is pretty weak, hence my four stars.	2000-07-24
US	50002830	R2UPTBIDU474OR	0517101351	309209239	A New Collection of Three Complete Novels: Congo, Sphere, Eaters of the Dead	Books	5	9	9	N	N	A Must Buy, If You Haven't Already Read Them	This collection houses three excellent Crichton novels: Sphere, Congo, and Eaters of The Dead. This volume is definately worth buying if you haven't already read these books. Sphere is one of his best books, the best in this  collection. It is old-school science fiction with a modern twist! A must  read. Also, Eaters of the Dead is an overlooked item in the Crichton canon,  very different from his other books, but any MC fan will like it. It is a  new reading of Beowulf (if you're into that). Congo is his classic novel  celebrating it's 20th anniversary this year. All three books are must  reads. That is, if you don't already have them. If you do, then there's no  reason to buy this collection, as it offers basically nothing new. A must  if you haven't though!	2000-07-24
US	50002830	R1Z36A15FBQKQT	0345385292	466594680	Michael Crichton: Rising Sun, Jurassic Park, Sphere	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Three of His Best Books	All Michael Crichton books are good, but these are three of the absolute best. Sphere, an excellent science fiction thriller, quite possibly IS his best. And of course everyone knows Jurassic Park and how good it is. If you're one of the few who hasn't read it, I'll tell you that it's a lot better than the movie, and the movie wasn't that bad! A definite classic. Rising Sun is an excellent detective story set in modern times...complete with early 1990s Japanese paranoia. It was the first Crichton book that I read, and it got me hooked. Buy this if you haven't already read these works.	2000-07-24
US	50002830	R1HD2B0M0RHY1J	0899662307	441055186	Sign of Four	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Excellent	Like the other three Holmes novels, this book is a masterpiece. Sure, it is old (over 100 years, in fact) but, being Holmes, it will always be as fresh and exciting as it was the day it was released. Although all the  Holmes stories are great, and you will have a good time reading any of  them, I reccommend reading the books in chronological order (this can be  conveniently done with the omnibus The Complete Sherlock Holmes), it will  only serve to make you like the stories even more. <br />Anyways, this is the  second Holmes story, and it is a page-turner, full of suspense. Also, it  delivers the kind of intrigue and &quot;how did he know that! &quot;  disbelief that only a Sherlock Holmes story can generate. It is because of  this, and the stunning detail in which he is described throughout the 60  Holmes stories, that the hardcore readers of the Holmes stories cannont  alltogether accept him as fictional. No character in the history of fiction  has ever been more real to his readers, and none ever will be. Many Holmes  fans have been known to feel remorse, even sadness upon visiting the  Rickenback Fall (where Doyle originally tried to kill Holmes). That may  sound fanciful, but indulge yourself in the 60 Holmes stories (including  this one-one of the best) and see if you fall into that category.	2000-07-24
US	50002830	R4Q6IISQ4ET3J	0345385306	425979099	The Terminal Man, The Andromeda Strain, Congo (Boxed Set)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Could've Been Better	Obviously, this is a collection of three MC books, so you know you are getting three good books. BUT, they are not his three best books. The Andromeda Strain is great, one of his best. The Terminal Man is good, but  sub-par for him. Congo is a classic thriller but not one of his absolute  best either. These are three good books, yes, but there are better Crichton  collections available. Get them instead.<br />By the way, if you want to read  the best of Crichton's works then read (in this order): Disclosure,  Jurassic Park, The Lost World, Sphere, Timeline, The Andromeda Strain, and  The Great Train Robbery.	2000-07-24
US	50002830	RZ2D7IVZW0J7V	0192123149	701677119	The Valley of Fear (The Oxford Sherlock Holmes)	Books	5	15	15	N	N	The Best Holmes Novel	This is probably the best of the Holmes novels. Like all of them (and the short stories) it is near impossible to put down, and leaves you awestruck at Holmes's genius. Doyle's writing style is extremely impressive as  always, his characters seem so very real! This book is believable, a true  masterpiece of mystery literature, and in the top tier of the long list of  the great English detective stories. It just doesn't get any better than  this. Even the long section without Holmes and Watson in it (&quot;The  Scowers&quot;) is enjoyable to read, and not boring (unlike the Mormon part  in a Study In Scarlet). Highly reccommended.	2000-07-24
US	50002830	RIQ94OTMUGG96	0375401075	27819662	Michael Crichton's Jurassic World	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Two Great Books In One Volume	This omnibus has two of the greatest novels of all-time in one volume: Jurassic Park, and the Lost World. But of course you already knew that. If you want to know my opinions on the individual books then look up my  reviews for them, but I can tell you that these are two awesome books and  each so much better than the (by no means bad) movies. And they're in one  volume! If you don't yet own these two books, this is the best way to  purchase them, as it is cheaper. On the other hand, if you already own or  have read these two novels there is absolutely no reason to purchase this  one, as it has nothing new except for slightly different packaging.	2000-07-23
US	50002830	R8T23UBBQNZUQ	0425093891	515832018	The Sentinel (Masterworks of Science Fiction and Fantasy)	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Another Good Short Story Collection	There are several collections of Arthur C. Clarke short stories, and I would say that along with The Other Side of The Sky this is the best one. It's hard to find (indeed, it is out of print), but worth it, since you can  probably find it cheap. The Sentinel, one of the most famous SF short  stories ever, is here, and it is a classic. And as everyone knows, it sowed  the seeds that sprung 2001. Also included is Guardian Angel, the story that  Clarke later expaned into Childhood's End (which is, in my opinion, his  best novel). There is also a short outline of the Songs of Distant Earth,  which Arthur would release as a full novel in 1991, after already writing a  similar short story (found in The Other Side...) of the same name. These  three items alone are enough to make most Clarke fans buy the book, but  there are also 6 other stories. <br />My personal favorite in here is Breaking  Strain. It tells the tale of two astronauts in space and the oxygen in  their ship is depleting. They then realize that if one of them dies, there  will be just enough oxygen for one of them to survive... a classic tale. As  are the other 8 stories in this book, making this a must-read for Clarke  fans.	2000-07-18
US	50002830	R1B15289Z3IQXB	0486266885	732800244	The Strange Case of Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde (Dover Thrift Editions)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A Masterpiece of Short Fiction	This book is, without a doubt, Stevenson's best ever work. All his other books pale in comparison. This is the classic tale of suspense and horror, and we are kept hooked until the end. Since this is a rather short book, it  can be easily read in one sitting. Got a rainy day, or even an hour to  waste sometime? Well, this book is the perfect thing to read. Stevenson  sure packs a lot of story and suspense into these few short pages! Highly  reccommended.	2000-07-12
US	50002830	R3EY5BYWIFH32Q	0060929871	949556910	Brave New World	Books	5	7	9	N	N	The Thinking-Man's Novel	This book is a literary masterpiece. It depicts a future world so barren and so devoid of promise that the only thing scarier than it is the fact that it's already coming true. The book is comparable to (although very  different from) Orwell's 1984. No use comparing them, as many have done.  They are both great books, and should be read by everyone.<br />That said,  Brave New World is not for everyone. Sorry to be frank, but an idiot cannot  read this book. I know two immature people who started reading the book  (and didn't even make it through the first chapter) that said it was  &quot;retarted&quot;. Okay, so there. If you're gonna read this book, do it  right. Don't read it while watching TV or listening to the radio. You have  to read it on it's own and read it slowly, to truly understand it. Because  it can be quite confusing at times. For example, early on in the book there  is a part where two different scenes are taking place simultaneously, and  the character's thoughts from each of the scenes are spoken, but with no  note of who is saying them. You have to be really paying attention to the  book to get anything out of it. And yes, it does have very deep meanings.  Read this if you are looking for something a little more thought-provoking  and serious than your usual run-of-the-mill action novel.	2000-07-12
US	50002830	R3KE12UYSMY98I	0812550927	781459831	20,000 Leagues Under the Sea (Tor Classics)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Verne's Best	This is by far Jules Verne's best book. It is a lot better than some of his other famous works (Journey To The Center of the Earth and Around The World In 80 Days for example). This is an early sci-fi adventure where the  entourage has adventure after adventure. There are some classic characters  in it too... especially Captain Nemo. Also, who could forget the classic  squid sequence? A must read.	2000-07-12
US	50002830	R3M9NWC9BTP29F	0345335163	368857529	Hammer of the Gods	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Essential Reading For Any Zep-Head	Okay, so the title may be a bit overblown. But this is the truestory (well... most of it anyway) of the best-selling rock band ofall-time (besides the Beatles). Obviously, a lot of people want to know what went on behind the scenes during the lives of such pop culture icons, and this book is, without a doubt, the place to get just that. It is well written, and hilarous. I laughed out loud many times during the reading of the book. Priceless.  END	2000-07-12
US	50002830	R1KEIIXUG4Y1OK	0140367209	175008927	Tales of Mystery and Terror (Puffin Classics)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Many Good Stories In One	Mystery, terror, suspense... it's all here. Just look at all the classic stories in this one volume: The Fall of the House of Usher, The Tell-Tell Heart, The Cask of Amontillado, and his masterpiece the Gold Bug. This is  required reading for any fan of Poe, or classic writings in general.	2000-07-12
US	50002830	R2YUWE8J7NIVK6	0451526562	365726027	A Tale of Two Cities (Signet Classics)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	A Literary Masterpiece	This is Charles Dickens' best book. The plot is masterly; he squeezes so much story and characterization into this fairly short book that it is truly amazing. Some of his other books are a lot thicker, but this does just as much, if not more, in much less space.<br /><br />Sure, there are a LOT of details and subplots, and some don't have any real relevance to the story (Dickens was paid by the word after all), but so  be it. It's worth it in the end.<br /><br />Speaking of the end, this has possibly the best ending ever. It is at once beautiful, poignant, and  poetic. Indeed, the ending is so famous that you will almost certainly know it before you even start reading it, but the greatness will still hit home.	2000-07-12
US	50002830	RIDUUXRISS2IG	1567231608	658731953	The City & the Stars	Books	5	4	5	N	N	A Classic In Every Sense of The Word	Few sci-fi books can claim to be this good. It has everything: future  wonders, epic creations and scenarios that you could only see in science  fiction, characterization, STORY, suspense, a beautiful and poetic ending,  and, as always with Arthur, it never loses site of the human element. This  is one of those books that should simply be on everyone's must-read list,  as one surprise after another happens in it.	2000-07-10
US	50002830	R38ZEK1MLIDV2K	0151338817	34796490	From the Ocean, from the Stars; An Omnibus Containing the Complete Novels: The Deep Range and the City and the Stars, and Twenty-Four Short Stories.	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A Must Read... If You Don't Have These Three Books	This collection is obviously very good (just look at the incredibly high number of copies sold). It contains two excellent novels: The Deep Range, and the all-time SF classic The City and The Stars. Also included is The  Other Side of The Sky, which is a collection within a collection (!) that  has many good short stories within it. If you want to know my opinions of  these three books on their own then read my review of them here on Amazon.  If you haven't already read those three, then this book is a must for you.	2000-07-10
US	50002830	RGG5X2GDK66U5	0345358791	363379837	2061: Odyssey Three	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Good, Not Great	This book is not at all bad, but it pales in comparison to the two great  novels (two of the best of all-time) that preceded it. It is a fairly  interesting book, but does little to advance the Odyssey series. Actually,  the best part of the book is the first half, where a landing is made on  Haley's Comet. Sure, it has nothing to do with the rest of the book (or the  series, for that matter), but it is undeniably cool. It almost makes you  wish that Clarke has extended it to a different novel of it's own, outside  the Odyssey series. About the only interesting development in this book as  far as the series is concerned is that Heywood Floyd joins (or appears to  join) Bowman and Hal in the monolith. However, this fact is contradicted in  3001, so one could actually read 2001 and 2010 and skip over this book to  3001 and lose nothing as far as continuity was concerned. If indeed, one  felt the need to do that. <br />Read this is you are a fan of the series, but  don't start here.	2000-07-08
US	50002830	R2ZIPXRRC02T6W	0345354621	376914649	The Terminal Man	Books	4	10	11	N	N	Good, But Not His Best	This is a pretty good offering from Michael Crichton. Like all of his  books, it is a page-turner, I read it in one sitting once I had the chance.  It is a good story, and has some thought-provoking scenes. However, it's  not Crichton's best work. Why? Well, there are some scenes that explain  certain complex medical procedures in detail that many people may find  self-indulgent. Also, the ending was weak.<br />Still, this is a Crichton book  for God's sake, so it is good, just not his best. Don't make this your  first read of MC (or the second or third for that matter), but do read  it... eventually.	2000-07-08
US	50002830	R3P9NW553W7MTB	0553072226	234283049	The Ghost from the Grand Banks	Books	3	5	6	N	N	3 and 1/2 Stars	This is not a bad book, but for an Arthur C. Clarke novel, it is something  of a disappointment. Although the concept of sub-plots is common in  Clarke's works (and indeed, in all of science fiction) it is taken too far  here. The whole long sections about the M-Set, the Millennium Bug, the  inventions of Roy Emerson, and the homelife of the Craig family have no  relevance to the actual plot of the book, and those sections encompass the  heart of the book. Yes, the M-Set is interesting, but it should've been  allowed it's own book if it is this important (even a 15+ page essay on it  is included after the story). Meanwhile, the Titanic saga is relegated to  almost side story status. Now, don't read all that and think I didn't like  the book. I did. It's just that most of Clarke's other works are so much  better (even the oft-critized 3001). Not a bad Clarke, but for the love of  God don't start your collection here. Spring for Childhood's End, 2001 or  2010, or Rendezvous With Rama first.	2000-07-08
US	50002830	RG43Q306YYZAB	055356871X	560559589	The Hammer of God	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Enjoyable, But Not A Masterpiece	No, this book does not deserve 5 stars. Sorry if the other reviewers  confused you, perhaps they have not read any of Clarke's classics. Anyways,  here's the straight dope:<br />Overall, this is a good book, but not a  classic. It starts out somewhat slow, with a lot of sub-plots and science  facts being thrown at the reader. However, once the story hits it's stride  it gets better. It is a good read, and the technique of short chapters  works well in this context. <br />That said, the basic plot behind this book  is something of a sci-fi cliche, and not a revolutionary, never-before-seen  idea like almost all of Clarke's books are. For this reason, among other  small ones, I give it 4 stars.	2000-07-08
US	50002830	RZRERWQNL7J29	0151704511	145767446	The Other Side of the Sky	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Brilliant	I agree, Clarke is better suited to the novel, but he is also a brilliant short story writer. The Nine Billion Names of God, as everyone knows, is one of the best SF short stories ever written, and has actually led several  people to carry out the exploits in the story in real life, so compelling  is the idea behind it. Not to be overlooked in this collection, are such  masterpieces as the chilling Wall of Darkness, The Star (which is also one  of the best ever), and All The Time In The World, yet another great story.  Also included, among others, is A Venture To The Moon, a fictional  pre-Apollo account of the first manned mission to the moon that is told is  such striking detail that it comes off nearly as a documentary (and a  factual one at that). Regardless of what facet of Clarke's writing that you  enjoy the most, there is bound to be something here that you'll like.	2000-07-06
US	50002830	RLIIO2YIINKA9	1561387169	967454243	The H.G. Wells Reader (Courage Classics Giant)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A Great Collection	This collection houses the best of (or at least MOST of the best of) H.G. Wells's work. His three undeniably classic novels are here: The Time Machine, The War of The Worlds, and The Invisible Man. All early science  fiction classics that still stand up today. Indeed, they do more than that,  they put most of today's SF to shame. Also included is the notoriously  underrated and controversial Island of Dr. Moreau, which is a very  thought-provoking read, and one of Wells's best books. Also included is the  good, but not great short story The Crystal Egg. A must read for any Wells  fan.	2000-07-06
US	50002830	R3A41QQVJ6WNRB	0345402871	687781903	Airframe	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Nearly His Best	This is one of Crichton's best books. The suspense is first-rate and it never lets up. Crichton writes in such a style that it is near impossible to put one of his books down once they are started, and this is no  exception. Aiframe is a very good book, and I gurantee you that you will be  hard-pressed not to read it in one setting.<br />Also, as always with  Crichton, you will learn a good deal about the subject matter of the book  by the time you have finished it, a testament to his legendary research.  You will learn about how airplanes are built, who makes them and what goes  into making them, the various problems that an airframe manufacturer runs  into, and more. Imagine that, educational fiction.	2000-07-06
US	50002830	R1ESON9CP4EMDO	0451198492	379678595	2001: A Space Odyssey	Books	5	2	2	N	N	One of The Best Sci-Fi Books Ever	This is one of those classics science fiction novels that never goes away, and with good reason: it's a classic. Yes, in every sense of the word. 2001 is a mind-blowing and thought-provoking space epic that starts out somewhat  slow, but is ultimately rewarding (what an understatement). Like in all of  Clarke's novels, there is a main underlying theme, but it never gets in the  way of the plot. This is an absolute masterpiece of SF, and anyone who is  just getting into the genre, well, this should be one of your first  reads.<br />Also, I found this book to be very funny, something which I have  found that few other people have mentioned. Maybe that means you have to be  a &quot;nerd&quot; to &quot;get&quot; the jokes. Whatever the case, it is a  fact that I laughed out loud several times during the course of this book.  Read it, enjoy it, and watch the excellent movie version.	2000-07-06
US	50002830	RDVQRK0Y3EC6Y	0345353145	340762456	Sphere	Books	5	0	0	N	N	The Closest He's Come To Old-School Science Fiction	Since I thought I had been giving too many five-star reviews lately, I was somewhat determined to give Sphere four stars. However, I realized it would be an injustice to this great book.     Sphere is the closest Michael Crichton has come to old-school science fiction. It is in the grand tradition of Arthur C. Clarke and his contemporaries:  suspense, the not-quite-knowable yet  seemingly real object, etc. This also has the best  characters in all of Crichton's body of work and is complete with a  semi-cliffhanger ending -- though you may not realize it.	2000-07-06
US	50002830	R1J6YTSQLERJ94	0345378482	855829988	The Andromeda Strain	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A Classic!	Michael Crichton's first novel is one of his best, setting in stone the pattern that he continues to follow to this day, and for one reason: it works. Yes, this novel masterfully intertwines science fact and science  fiction, and in turn gives us, the reader, a great book of suspense. It is  written in such documentary fashion that you have to convince yourself that  you're not reading out of a history book (well, not really, but...). Yeah,  it can get quite technical at times, but it still appeals to a wide  audience because of it's excellent plot.<br />Also, this book has something  that you rarely see in sci-fi: an author going against the alien  stereotype. Are you tired of seeing the cliche'd &quot;little green  men&quot; or &quot;E.T. ripoffs&quot;? Well, then this book is for you. One  of it's subthemes is that we really have no idea what aliens look like, in  fact, they may be mere bacteria! Or, maybe not so &quot;mere&quot; as Stone  and his team find out...	2000-07-05
US	50002830	R16GVJGX0QUOMY	0345391055	782303291	Disclosure	Books	5	4	5	N	N	His Best!	I have read all of Crichton's fiction novels except one (Congo) and I can say without a doubt that this is his best one. Sure, it's not the modern science fiction as usual that he does so well, and you have to get into the  book a little before it is very exciting, but I promise you that once this  book hits it's stride you will not be able to put it down. After the  excitement level was upped I read most of the rest of the book in one  setting. It is very suspenseful, just when you think Sander's problems are  coming to an end, something else comes up.<br />Also, several people have  commented that the plot is fanciful because in it a man is sexually  harrased by a woman. However, as statistics will show, going by the fact  that there is a smaller percentage of women as heads of corporations than  men, and taking into account the harrasment cases brought up against them  by men there is actually a greater percentage of women who sexually harrass  than men in the workplace. And besides, I imagine that the great majority  of them that do come up aren't reported. After all, if a woman came up to  you...<br />But aside from my comments on society, JUST READ THE BOOK. Make  what you want out of it, it was controversial and raised a lot of questions  for a reason... it's good!	2000-07-05
US	50002830	RQDA68X7LBKQV	0575601582	92926356	Imperial Earth	Books	5	10	12	N	N	Something Akin To A Masterpiece	After the incredible back-to-back success of 2001: A Space Odyssey and Rendezvous With Rama, Clarke returned in 1976 with Imperial Earth, a novel less about science than the human spirit. The story revolves around a  Titanite making a trip to Earth, and seeing the vast differences between  the two places (&quot;For a horrifying second, Duncan thought he was going  to have to eat real meat&quot;), but also touches on the elements of the  human spirit and mind that will always be with us. Along the way, many  predictions about the future are made, and a generally exciting (though not  exactly fast-paced) story is told throughout. A rather touching story quite  different from most of Clarke's other works, this is a story that will stay  with you long after you have read the last page.	2000-07-05
US	50002830	R2CPE4MYXMBGWG	0812505042	691093854	The Time Machine	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A Classic	This is widely considered the first \\"real\\" science fiction book and is also one of the best. Though it focuses more on pure imagination than science, unlike some later Wells, it is nevertheless an interesting read. It touches on several important  subjects, such as evolution and the question of whether or not we should really view the future before if we could. It is extremely suspenseful and can be read in one setting. This is a very good book, complete with a cliffhanger ending.	2000-07-04
US	50002830	R1WTNL3E3GFMAJ	0575602910	644105727	The Deep Range	Books	4	10	11	N	N	4 and 1/2	On something of a departure for Clarke, he explores the depths of earth's oceans in this book, rather than his usual space sagas. It succeeds remarkably well, and is better than his more well-known novel of the ocean  (The Ghost From The Grand Banks). The plot is good, with several surprising  mini-twists, and the characterization is better than on most of his works.  Also, as with all his books, the ending is beautiful and poetic. A must  read for the Clarke fan.	2000-07-04
US	50002830	R3F6EMQM1K1MX	0679444815	786105285	Timeline	Books	5	13	16	N	N	Actually, It's One of His Best	God knows this book already has enough reviews, but since it has an abundant number of negative reviews (and indeed, the first one visible one the page), I have decided to put my 2 cents in. Well, simply put: (and  coming from a reader who has been through all of Crichton's non-fiction  books but one) it's one of his best. The only ones that i think surpass it  are JP and Disclosure. And if you were one who liked Jurassic Park (and who  didn't?) then this is right up your alley. It is a thrill-a-minute ride of  suspense, but without leaving out complex science issues, indeed, there may  be more here than in any of Crichton's other books. The issues of quantum  physics and quantum teleportation raised in this book are very interesting  and thought-provoking, and it actually serves to make time travel seem  possible. For these reasons, and many others, it is a must read.	2000-07-04
US	50002830	R1BX145LWUTJII	0345370775	392304217	Jurassic Park: A Novel	Books	5	74	88	N	N	Blows The Movie Away	It's a shame that a lot of people won't read this book because they saw the movie and thought it was stupid. Yes, it was a pretty good movie, but this book is a lot better, simply because it focuses more on the scientific  and character development aspects, rather than pure thrills and suspense  (not that there isn't any of that). Also, the movie didn't follow the book  at all, there are many parallels between the two. What's cool about this  book is that dinosaurs aren't definately a part of the story until over 100  pages into the book! Indeed, if the movie was not so famous and you had  just read the book first, you might not have known it was about dinosaurs  until rather far into it (but the title of course, gives it away). But just  look at the explanation of how the dinosaurs were created, among the  various other scientific aspects of the book, everything is explained in  painstaking detail, without ever becoming boring. Crichton really did his  homework on this one. <br />If you are putting off reading this book because  you think it is some stupid and unrealistic fantasy about the rebirth of  dinosaurs, then not only are you totally wrong, you are missing out. This  is a must read.	2000-07-04
US	50002830	R32YF7ZSFYUEVK	0812504674	691093854	The Invisible Man (Tor Classics)	Books	5	3	6	N	N	A Very Successful Melding of Sci-Fi and Horror	This is a very good book, and as another reviewer said, Wells gets the most out of his words; an astonishing amount of detail and plot is put into what is really a rather short book. One of the great things about it is that Wells makes a seemingly impossible task (making humans  invisible) seem possible. After we find out a lot about  Griffin we learn about his adventures and difficulties as the invisible  man. The main themes seem to be the horrors that would abound if a major discovery were found by an evil person. Also, it is a definite attack on narcissism, as most of Griffin's terrible acts were spurred by his needs and disregard for others. All told, this is a thought-provoking and exciting classic with wide appeal.	2000-07-04
US	50002830	R2I8KZQPTIQYAQ	0345354613	760372128	Eaters of the Dead	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Different, But Good	This is not your typical Michael Crichton thriller but good nevertheless. Crichton is famous for writing documentary-style fiction, but this takes his approach to a whole other level.  Besides his usual methods of describing every little thing, etc., he evens goes so far as to include a lengthy preface, an about the author  section (the story is told through the eyes of Ibn Fadlan, who was an  actual person but never made contact with Vikings), and even  footnotes. Unlike most of his books, there is no extreme suspense; no matter how bad the situation gets, you know how it will end because it is told in the first person about the past. That said, it is still very entertaining. It comes recommended, but read some other Crichton books first.	2000-07-03
US	50002830	R2O93S1B91CU2E	0345402871	684823314	Airframe	Books	5	8	9	N	N	&quot;Just One More Page...&quot;	I love this book! Michael Crichton writes his books in such a way that  they are near impossible to put down. This is accomplished primarily by the  fact that the story never gets boring, and he usually ends chapters on a  cliffhanger note, thus nearly forcing you to turn the page. This applies  not only to Airframe, but all of Crichton's book.<br />Also, his documentary  approach to the novel of suspsense (complete with a very posh looking  intro) will leaving you wondering whether or not the story really happened,  such is the level of detail. It's a shame that this wasn't made into a  movie as it seems more fit to be one than some of the other Crichton ones  that they've made into movies (Rising Sun, Eaters of The Dead (13th  Warrior).<br />I can gurantee one thing, after reading this book you'll  either never worry about riding an airplane again, as the safety measures  of them are recounted in this book so painstakingly detailed, or you'll  never fly in one again!	2000-06-06
US	50002830	R3L9AX3FYWPUN1	0385306849	421543512	Saucerful of Secrets: The Pink Floyd Odyssey	Books	5	9	11	N	N	A Must If You Love The Band	Since this is the most widely known (and so far that I've seen, best) Floyd book, I've decided to review it. Well it's a great book, but not quite perfect. It was published in 1991, so obviously it's a little out of  date, but it is still a must-have. It tells nearly everything up to that  point, including a lot about Syd, if you're into that. In my opinion, it  says a little too much about Syd, nearly half the book is about him in  fact. However, if you like him then obviously that's good for you. There  are several useful appendixes after the biography is over, a list of  setlists, singles, albums, etc., which is cool. The biography part is great  too, telling in good detail how the albums were made, and gives a lot of  useful information on how Syd and Roger left the band, The Wall movie, and  the various lawsuits. This is one that even if you never read, you have to  get if you like Pink Floyd. It's a must-buy.	2000-05-31
US	50002830	R2T6MF8XH9D6AE	0380795310	31971310	Walk This Way: The Autobiography of Aerosmith	Books	5	31	31	N	N	&quot;Just one more page...&quot;	This is essential reading for any Aerosmith fan. Even if you hate reading, I gurantee that once you pick this book up, you will not be able to put it down. I've read it through three times, and plan on reading it again soon.  Even if you think you know everything about Aerosmith, you will find out  once you read this book that you were very wrong. You'll confirm things  you've always suspected, learn many things you didn't know before,  including some things you probably wish you didn't know. Speaking of that,  people who have said that this book is in bad taste, and that it is wrong  for Aerosmith to bare their souls like this and tell what really happened  in their lifetime, well, you do not understand this book. This is the  AUTOBIOGRAPHY of Aerosmith, UNCENSORED, not some edited kiddie show  bullcrap.  This is the real deal, don't wanna read about the drugs, women,  and all that between tales of how the albums were made, then don't read the  damn book! This is a story of human triumph, that should inspire us all,  knowing that no matter how bad things get, we can always come out better  than we were before. That's not saying that you should smoke dope or  whatever because Aerosmith said they did it in this book and then they went  out and sold 50 million albums, but apply it to your own situation. Fact  is, if you love Aerosmith, then you should own this book!	2000-05-18
US	50002830	R17OCK3QWSFVEI	0345347951	589013680	Childhood's End	Books	5	2	3	N	N	A Science Fiction Classic!	To say that this is one of the greatest science fiction books of all-time is an almost laughable understatement. It is quite simply one of the greatest books of all-time, in any category. A brilliant masterpiece. There  is a sense of awe and wonder throughout the book, you cannot possibly put  it down. I have read many Clarke books and this is probably his best, with  the possible exception of 2001 (and yes I've read Rendzevous With Rama). If  you are a SF or Clarke fan and you have not yet read this, you should be  ashamed of yourself.	2000-04-16
US	50002830	R3FL4FNO7IKQWZ	0451524934	337991686	1984 (Signet Classics)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Prophetic, Scary, Whitty... A Classic!	This book has, quite literally, changed my life. After reading it, my outlook on life is completely different. This book opened up my mind to the importance of the individual in society and the true evils of  totalitarianism (when done incorrectly). This is scarier than any  &quot;horror&quot; book ever written, because almost all of it is possible  (and much of it has already happened). A true masterpiece, this should be  required reading for every human being on the planet.	2000-04-16
US	50002830	R12EHI6P1DG2MI	0385006896	390250393	The Complete Sherlock Holmes	Books	5	12	12	N	N	A Must-Own!	Almost certainly the best book I have ever read (only the Count of Monte Cristo comes close), and I have read a lot of books. All 60 Holmes stories, a great preface, and it's all in chronological order! Every single story is  great and interesting, and after reading 1,000 plus pages of this great  literary work you feel as if you know Holmes and Watson personally! Simply,  a must have.	2000-02-27
US	50002830	R1XP4B9SP0MG6W	0345423496	284653366	3001: The Final Odyssey	Books	4	3	5	N	N	NOT AS BAD AS THE OTHER REVIEWERS SAID	As stated above, this is not the POS that most of the reviewers below have labeled it. Now, I have read all the Odyssey books, and consider myself an expert on the series. And yes, 2001 is the best book in the series, and  yes, the series did go continually downhill, and yes, there are some corny  things in this book, and yes the ending is questionable, and yes, and yes,  it does ignore things said in the previous novels, and yes, there isn't  much character development (it's a SF novel for crying out loud!), but you  know what? It's still a darn good book! Like the rest of the series, there  is some very interesting social commentary in this book, as well as a good  number of &quot;scientific jokes&quot;, unfortunately for some, you have to  &quot;have a brain&quot; to &quot;get&quot; them. Unlike apparently most  people who reviewed this book, I didn't think the series hit at a good  ending point with 2061, this is something of a better ending, though it  could've been bettered also. We couldn't penetrate the monolith with any  substance humans possessed and we can destroy it with a computer virus?  Strange... but yet, it was a better ending than the previous book would've  been. Personally, I think the best ending would've have been for Poole to  join the rest inside the monolith, I never imagined it would be destroyed  (hope I didn't just spoil the book for ya!). However, as I said it's still  a good read, and something that any ACC or SF fan should get without a  doubt.	2000-02-23
