US	50011777	R2GKJOHOF6BLVX	0061031445	200580431	Flight Lessons	Books	5	4	5	N	N	A simple dish, perfectly done	While the plot of FLIGHT LESSONS may not be either particularly involved or original -- a woman returns home to help salvage the family's dying business, which in turn forces her to confront issues from the past -- Pat Gaffney's rich characterizations, as well as the emotional depth behind her deceptively simple prose, certainly made this story a winner for me.<br />These are people with both strengths and weaknesses, whose actions and attitudes we might not always agree with but whose motivations are always made clear.  Gaffney really nails the complexity of human relationships, that true-to-life mixture of tart and sweet that can make the reader both want to root for a character and knock some sense into him or her at the same time.  The relationship between the sixty-year-old Rose and her dying lover Theo is a particular treasure, but the quiet, scarred Mason stole my heart (even though I agree with another reviewer that perhaps his emails were too long -- but at least he apologized for that!). A lesser man would have given up on the hard-headed Anna by halfway through the book: that he didn't makes him a real hero in my eyes.<br />But perhaps what most impressed me was the way in which Gaffney seamlessly braids so many threads.  I never felt I was reading about several separate subplots, since each character's situation so tightly intersected with the others'.  Very difficult to pull off, but Gaffney makes it seem effortless.<br />While I've read, and thoroughly enjoyed, Ms. Gaffney's previous contemporary novels, for some reason (Mason, would be my guess) this one's edged out the others as my new favorite.  These were people I wouldn't mind checking up on in a few years to see how they're doing.<br />And I can't ask more of a book than that.	2003-07-05
US	50011777	R3K36B5COKR2D9	0375706429	312828157	Otherwise Engaged: A Novel	Books	5	1	3	N	N	Thoroughly delightful	Written in a wry, wonderful voice that vacillates between hysterically funny to amazingly insightful, OTHERWISE ENGAGED chronicles a woman's journey from singleton to married with a depth not always found in many books of this type.  This isn't a long book, but that's because the prose is clean and spare, not because the author doesn't have a lot to say.  The tone is more literary, say, than DIARY OF A MAD BRIDE (which I thought was a hoot), but that doesn't make OE any less readable.<br />Some might find Eve's obsessiveness and neurosis a bit over the top, but I would imagine that taking this step for the first time at 36, especially for a woman well ensconced in her career, might be more anxiety-producing than for a younger woman.  In any case, I had no trouble buying into those anxieties. . .but what I most loved was how she always, always came back to realizing just how terrific her husband-to-be was, and deeply in love with him she was.  And the last page brought tears to my eyes.<br />One of my favorite books of the year, for sure.	2002-09-07
US	50011777	R2OK8Q3LRY6ZLV	0312983271	746882277	Full House (Max Holt No. 1)	Books	2	14	16	N	N	Disappointing	Since I'm a huge fan of Janet Evanovich's Stephanie Plum series, I eagerly picked up this book, expecting the snappy, witty voice I've come to expect.  Unfortunately, that wasn't the case.  In fact, the style is so different, if I hadn't seen Evanovich on the cover I would never have identified it as one of hers. Although I understand this is a revised version of an earlier book, FULL HOUSE wasn't THAT much earlier (four or five years at the most) than the first Plum book, so I wouldn't have expected such vast differences between the two. While there are flashes of cleverness in some of the dialogue, the prose is often sluggish and predictable, the chemistry between the protagonists is flat, and the frequent, and unclear, point of view changes are exhausting.  Compared with the Plum books, this one seems extremely amateurish in comparison.<br />I'm not sure I understand how the collaboration between Evanovich and Charlotte Hughes was supposed to &quot;improve&quot; this early work.  For someone with such a wonderful, and well deserved, reputation to team up with another writer -- when this is the result -- makes little sense to me. I will anxiously await the next Evanovich book, whether a new Stephanie Plum or not, but will be steering clear of any future books written by this team.	2002-09-07
US	50011777	R3Q0GW2MA4ZS3Z	155166917X	721398560	At The Corner Of Love And Heartache	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Terrific blend of romance and women's fiction	I've long been a fan of Curtiss Ann Matlock's work, with its subtle humor, rich, realistic characterizations and uplifting outlook on life.  AT THE CORNER OF LOVE AND HEARTACHE, which continues her series set in Valentine, Oklahoma, delivers all that and more.  In this book, she explores love from a host of angles -- between the middle-aged, just-engaged protagonists, caught up in the intense, sometimes doubting, flush of still-new love; between an older woman and a younger man; the pure, uncomplicated love of a \\"challenged\\" child for animals that enables him to heal them; the love of family and friends and neighbors that are the hallmark of all Matlock's stories.  There is an undeniably spiritual bent to this story, but it is by no means preachy, nor does that aspect in any way diminish the joy of the natural physical expression of a man and woman's love for each other.  Even though Marilee and Tate decide to \\"wait\\" for their wedding night, the pages shimmer with the ...tension of two people so much in love with each other, they can hardly believe they've been so incredibly blessed.<br />If you're looking for a \\"feel good\\" read with some real meat on its bones, this is it.	2002-08-16
US	50011777	R2NUBN9PH7OOF2	0385335881	796714451	Shopaholic Takes Manhattan	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Even better than the first book!	I can't say enough good things about this book.  It's just a delight in every way -- the characters are multi-layered, the pacing and structure are perfect, the romance thread is terrific, and Kinsella's turns-of-phrase are hysterical.  I howled with laughter several times, yet still felt Becky's shame and horror when her world fell apart.  Becky Bloomwood at first comes across as a Lucy Ricardo type character -- the loveable, clueless ditz whose every attempt to &quot;fix&quot; things only gets her into more trouble -- but she's deeper (and smarter) than that, even if she doesn't always know it.  These are people who make mistakes, and get caught up in their own foibles, but who are, when all's said and done, eminently appealing characters you end up rooting for. . and falling in love with.  For the first time in ages, I hated to see a book end.  Very highly recommended for anyone who loves chick lit, humor, and/or a good romance.	2002-04-21
US	50011777	R36NFZ03VIQQTO	0380814382	658316423	True Confessions	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Great fun!	This was my first Rachel Gibson book...but it certainly won't be my last.  TRUE CONFESSIONS is filled with realistic, zany, appealing characters, snappy and laugh-out-funny dialogue, and a sweet, sizzingly sexy hero -- what more could a gal want?  One of those rare books I had to FORCE myself to stop reading at some wee hour of the morning!  Loved it.	2002-03-30
US	50011777	R22LEVB967J1D6	0385335830	41523586	Diary of a Mad Bride	Books	5	2	2	N	N	I laughed all the way through!	As a veteran of the trying-to-pull-together-a-wedding-in-NYC wars (albeit nearly 24 years ago!), could I ever relate to Amy's spiral into pre-wedding madness!  A very clever, fast read that had me howling with laughter in several places (I was still giggling about the bustier episode long after I read the passage).  Fluff, yes -- but then, so is chocolate mousse. My only &quot;complaint&quot; is that, like chocolate mousse, I finished it far too quickly!  A great bridal shower or engagement gift.	2002-03-29
US	50011777	R12EP9T0IWF5NG	0373250134	559572782	Slightly Single (Red Dress Ink paperback}	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Anything but &quot;shopworn&quot;	Yes, the heroine of SLIGHTLY SINGLE is, like Bridget Jones, overweight, single, neurotic, and trapped (or so she believes) in a nowhere job.  But then, how many young women living in NYC -- or anywhere, for that matter -- fit that description?  Or at least three out of four?  Doesn't mean their stories mimic BJD, or their lives.  And neither does Tracy's.  Wendy Markham brings a fresh twist to the genre with a book that's at once insightful, smoothly written and wryly humorous.  Tracy is an honestly neurotic heroine, even as the truth of her situation with her self-absorbed boyfriend only lurks on the fringes of her consciousness for much of the story.  And this makes her appealing and loveable.  Markham's prose manages to be fluid despite pages of one-sentence paragraphs depicting Tracy's inner turmoil and conflict as she comes to terms with not only who she is, but what she wants. . .and deserves.  A strong, shining example of &quot;chick-lit&quot; at its best. Despite a beginning that perhaps could have been a little stronger, by page 50, I found myself rapidly turning the pages, thoroughly engrossed with Tracy's stumbling along her learning curves.  Scenes with her family back home in upstate NY are priceless and very true-to-life.  Loved it.	2002-01-25
US	50011777	R1YDBTHGORL7RH	0373250126	471365971	Milkrun	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Delightful look at twenty-something angst!	I'll admit I approached this book from the skewed, jaded perspective of someone who not only hasn't seen her twenties in many a moon, but who truly wondered if it was still possible to bring a fresh perspective to a genre that's already seen more than its fair share of BRIDGET JONES clones.  I was therefore delightfully surprised with newcomer Sarah Mylnowski's contribution, MILKRUN.  The series-of-disastrous-dates plotline is certainly nothing new, but with a catchy, droll voice and often witty, sometimes hilarious observations about life in general and single life in particular, Ms. Mylnowski has breathed new life into the &quot;chick lit&quot; genre. A fun, fast read that makes a great respite from holiday madness -- and a great gift for any woman who's ever endured a date from hell!	2001-11-24
US	50011777	RHFCA2F85U3XB	0373244096	837332307	Match Made In Wyoming (Wyoming Wildflowers) (Silhouette 1409)	Books	5	11	13	N	N	Good, old -ashioned heartwarming romance!	Small town lawyer Taylor Larsen is everything ranch foreman Cal Ruskin doesn't want to want. . .and everything he needs, even though he's convinced himself the secrets he keeps buried deep in his soul preclude his ever being able to love this warm, generous woman the way she deserves to be loved.  But when a mutual friend, a scrawny, abandoned Collie puppy, and a perfectly timed Montana blizzard conspire to throw Cal and Taylor together for a very cozy three days in a very small house, Cal cannot resist at least sampling what life with Taylor could be like. . .and Taylor cannot resist prying apart the shell that Cal keeps clamping around him whenever she gets too close.<br />This story is remarkable on many levels, not the least of which is the skill with which Miss McLinn tells it.  You may think you've read every ranch/cowboy/snowbound story out there, but trust me -- this one is not only different, but proves, without a doubt, that some of the best writing around is to be found in category romance.  These characters -- their dialogue, their fears, their complex personalities -- are very real.  As a reader, I couldn't help fall under Cal's spell -- a good, troubled, mixed-up man who forces Taylor to confront some of her own demons, even as he refuses to face his own -- even as I completely empathized with Taylor's frustration every time Cal retreated into his cave, as well as her determination not to let him get away with it!  There's a lot of subtle -- and not so subtle -- humor here, the lovescenes are at once tender and sizzling, and the emotions and fears of both characters wrap themselves around the reader's heart and don't let go.  This is one of those rare books -- for me, anyway - - whose characters truly stay with you long after the final page.  A keeper for sure!	2001-07-13
US	50011777	R38J0XWVX4JHYS	037327159X	982747410	The Seduction of Goody Two-Shoes (Into the Heartland) (Silhouette Intimate Moments No. 1089) (Intimate Moments, 1089)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Creighton at her best!	Kathleen Creighton's rich characterizations, emotional depth, vividly described settings, and ability to create a sizzling magic between her heroes and heroines without slapping you in the face with what passes for sexual tension in far too many books has made me a devoted fan for many years.  Her latest IM, THE SEDUCTION OF GOODY TWO-SHOES, is Creighton at her best.  Her hero is an American expatriate living in Mexico, a social recluse/artist/beach bum, who finds himself sucked into helping out a biologist turned government agent when her partner/pretend husband takes ill.  A more unlikely pair you'll never see. . .but watching the jaded McCall's defenses crumble under the pressure of Ellie's fervent determination to set at least part of the world to rights is an absolute delight.  Ellie is idealistic but not naive; McCall is crusty without being obnoxious. If you like a touch of suspense and danger in your stories, but are looking for something a bit different -- and for a romance that, even within the parameters of a short time frame, still doesn't seem rushed or based solely on physical attraction -- this just might be the ticket.	2001-07-08
US	50011777	R2CJZ8LUB81PDH	0671034065	142020743	Mr. Perfect	Books	3	10	14	N	N	Enjoyable, but disappointing	Although I have read very little of Linda Howard's work, I picked up Mr. Perfect because I'd heard from so many other readers how funny it was.  Since I count Janet Evanovich, Jennifer Crusie and Dave Barry among my favorite authors, I thought I'd give it a try.  And on that level, Mr. Perfect met my expectations. . .but only some of the time.<br />On the one hand, I enjoyed reading it (and I don't finish a book I don't like).  Even though I found the premise a little flimsy -- I just didn't buy that The List would cause so much hoopla -- the dialogue between the protagonists, Jaine and Sam, was at times hilarious; I really liked Sam (even if I found him a little crude for my tastes at times); the pacing kept me turning pages; the twist at the end worked for me.  The trouble was, I felt as if I was reading two or three different books that had been forced into one -- the writing seemed uneven, and while the various aspects of the story worked, put together, they bothered me.<br />Usually, when humor is combined with a murder mystery, the author takes pains to somehow distance the murder victims from the protagonist -- and the reader, as well -- by killing them off before the reader gets to know them, by making them unlikeable to the point where the reader feels no sympathy for them, by making them only peripheral acquaintances of the protagonist.  Even in cases in which the protagonist knows and likes the victims, most authors give the reader time to grieve and adjust to the deaths before reintroducing the humor.  In this book, two women, close friends of the heroine, are brutally murdered.  Yet, in both cases, even though we see the heroine and the remaining friends completely broken up over the deaths, within a few pages we're expected to laugh. . .or go with the flow when Sam and Jaine hit the sheets.  Again.  (I have no trouble with sexy books, or explicit sex, but this went a little over the top for me, mainly because the sex wasn't shown in such a way as to show the characters' growth.)  Few authors can juxtapose laugh out loud funny with horrible and sinister without jarring the reader.  Unfortunately, in this book, Ms. Howard doesn't quite pull it off, even though I could see how hard she tried -- the ladies telling jokes and laughing at Marci's &quot;wake&quot;, the &quot;theraputic&quot; sex, was supposed to help the ladies deal with their grief.  Unfortunately, instead of achieving the brilliant dark humor of Crusie or Evanovich or Barry, it just didn't work.<br />I had other problems with the story as well.  Even though I understand this isn't a romance per se, so much time was spent on the developing relationship between Jaine and Sam that one couldn't call it a subplot.  Yet, without much, if any, real conflict between them -- it seemed a pretty straight line from hate to hots to marriage proposal -- that aspect, especially in light of how many pages were devoted to sex scenes, left me feeling a little gypped.  I liked this couple, yes, and loved their banter. . .but I wanted to see them struggle more for their happily ever after.  And while the humor between the hero and heroine really did sparkle, I didn't feel the same way about the scenes with the four women.  There, I got the feeling Ms. Howard didn't trust the reader to find the dialogue funny without telling us how funny it was.  The result was like reading scenes with a laugh track.<br />Not a horrible book by any means.  Just not the caliber I expect from someone at this level.show the characters' growth.)  Few authors can juxtapose laugh out loud funny with horrible and sinister without jarring the reader.  Unfortunately, in this book, Ms. Howard doesn't quite pull it off, even though I could see how hard she tried -- the ladies telling jokes and laughing at Marci's &quot;wake&quot;, the &quot;theraputic&quot; sex, was supposed to help the ladies deal with their grief.  Unfortunately, instead of achieving the brilliant dark humor of Crusie or Evanovich or Barry, it just didn't work.  <br />I had other problems with the story as well.  Even though I understand this isn't a romance per se, so much time was spent on the developing relationship between Jaine and Sam that one couldn't call it a subplot.  Yet, without much, if any, real conflict between them -- it seemed a pretty straight line from hate to hots to marriage proposal -- that aspect, especially in light of how many pages were devoted to sex scenes, left me feeling a little gypped.  I liked this couple, yes, and loved their banter. . .but I wanted to see them struggle more for their happily ever after.  And while the humor between the hero and heroine really did sparkle, I didn't feel the same way about the scenes with the four women.  There, I got the feeling Ms. Howard didn't trust the reader to find the dialogue funny without telling us how funny it was.  The result was like reading scenes with a laugh track.  <br />Not a horrible book by any means.  Just not the caliber I expect from someone at this level.	2001-05-24
US	50011777	RTV2AIZEVJ6NX	0425178102	857420607	Big Trouble	Books	5	2	4	N	N	Zany and just plain fun!	If anyone can make a story work involving a poisonous toad, a dog with the IQ of celery, former Soviet gunrunners, loose goats, a python, and a nuclear bomb in the unwitting hands of two of the dumbest bad guys ever to grace the pages of a novel, it's Dave Barry.  Barry's enormous cast of goofball characters bounce off each other like pinballs in this fast-paced, completely irreverent story that had me laughing out loud every other paragraph.  Yes, the Bad Guys use Bad Language, and there are some scenes that might make some readers uncomfortable, but it all works as part of the whole, in this reader's opinion.  If you like Janet Evanovitch's Stephanie Plum books, or movies like ANALYZE THIS, you'll probably love BIG TROUBLE.	2001-03-02
US	50011777	R34II7ZATFNSIW	0373194641	313159637	First Time, Forever (Virgin Brides) (Silhouette Romance)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A story that sizzles with sweetness and humor	On impulse, thirty-four-year-old Kathleen Miles relocates with her 12 year  old nephew from Vancouver to speck-on-the-map Hopkins Gulch, Saskatchewan  to find peace, safety and a new start after her long-term fiance announces  he's marrying a much younger woman.  The last thing she's looking for is  romance, and certainly not in the form of heart-breakingly handsome Evan  Atkins, a 26-year-old single father of a three-year-old boy.  But the  qualities Evan sees in Kathleen aren't defined or limited by age, and this  once-wild-boy wonders if he's man enough to be Kathleen's white knight, and  if the four of them can somehow fit all their pieces together well enough  to be a real family.<br />Since my introduction to Cara Colter last year with  A BRIDE WORTH WAITING FOR, she has been one of my favorite authors.  Her  writing style is fluid and sophisticated, enabling her to paint vivid  pictures with few words, and her dialogue sparkles.  Her characters are  warm, real, and funny, and although her stories are generally fairly light  in tone, there's nothing &quot;fluffy&quot; about them.  She obviously  truly believes in her subject matter -- that there's nothing more wonderful  than a trusting, loving relationship between a man and a woman -- a  conviction which allows rich emotional depth to these &quot;little&quot;  stories.  In none of the stories of hers I've read is that more true than  in FIRST TIME, FOREVER.  The relationship between Kathleen and Evan not  only sizzles with believeable sexual tension, but is bolstered by a  sincerety and sweetness that just made me smile the whole time I was  reading the book.  Although the ending may seem a bit oversentimentalized  for some tastes, it didn't detract from my overall enjoyment of the story  and the characters.	2000-09-06
US	50011777	R3S3HSVDNJ111J	037322561X	984385930	Her Private Bodyguard (Harlequin Intrigue #561)	Books	5	7	8	N	N	A compelling read	I've read several of Gayle Wilson's books over the past couple of years,  both her Intrigues and her Harlequin Historicals, and I've yet to be  disappointed.  Her writing style is nearly flawless; her attention to  detail unsurpassed; and while she writes some of the steamiest love scenes  in the genre, the physical aspects of her characters' attraction to each  other never take a back seat to the compelling emotional tension that makes  for a far more satisfying read, as far as this reader is concerned.<br />HER  PRIVATE BODYGUARD does have a far simpler plotline than many other of her  Intrigues, the suspense element carrying less weight than the romance.  Since I'm not a huge romantic suspense fan, anyway -- in fact, Ms. Wilson  is one of the few RS authors I read -- that didn't bother me.  I was far  more &quot;intrigued&quot; by the slowly unfolding relationship between the  reluctant heiress, Valerie Beaufort, and her even more reluctant bodyguard,  Grey Sellers.  Neither of these were &quot;people&quot; people, which made  their learning to trust all the more interesting to watch.  A different  kind of book for Ms. Wilson, I think, but no less enjoyable than her more  plot-heavy stories.	2000-09-06
US	50011777	R2KLPPAH7LB5IU	0373271026	422256090	The Temptation of Sean MacNeill (Silhouette Intimate Moments, 1032)	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Sexy, sweet, and passionate. . .	That's Sean MacNeill.  And that also describes his story.<br />I've read  every one of Virginia Kantra's books since THE REFORMING OF MATTHEW DUNN,  her first Intimate Moments in November 99.  As far as I'm concerned, she is  a phenomenally talented writer, whose work is as good as it gets in  category romance -- and I'm sure there's a terrific career awaiting her in  single title work as well.<br />While not as complex, plot-wise, as her  Rita-nominated THE PASSION OF PATRICK MACNEILL, superb characterizations  and emotionally compelling prose makes SEAN no less enthralling a book.  Rachel Fuller has more baggage than an airline terminal -- the widow of a  man who killed himself rather than face his responsibilities, she's just  moved from Philadelphia back to her mother's house in a small town in North  Carolina with her two children, a gargantuan debt, and repeated threats  from a small-time criminal family to whom her gambling-addicted husband  owed a great deal of money.  The last thing the beleagured woman needs is  an insane attraction to her mother's 29-year-old boarder, an unemployed  carpenter who wears T-shirts with sayings like &quot;Carpenters Swing Big  Tools&quot;.  But there's a lot more to Sean MacNeill than a body to die  for and a cocky attitude, and Rachel eventually finds herself wondering if  she's finally &quot;come home&quot; at last. . .<br />If you're looking for  multi-layered, realistic characters; witty, realistic prose; a strong,  expertly interwoven subplot that perfectly complements the love story; and  love scenes that shimmer with emotion and passion without getting bogged  down in unnecessary explicitness, you won't be disappointed in THE  TEMPTATION OF SEAN MACNEILL.  In fact, this jaded reader was actually teary  at the end, just because it was sooooo good.	2000-09-06
US	50011777	R1KCCIGAVPNWLE	1551665999	155858720	Driving Lessons (Mira)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Unforgettable cast of true-to-life characters	After 21 years of marriage and three children, Charlene Darnell's husband Joey has just up and walked out, leaving her confused, feeling like a  failure, and not sure whether to be sad or angry.  Her entire married life  has been dedicated to being there for everyone else; now, for the first  time, circumstances are forcing her to put herself first, figuring out what  CHARLENE wants, for a change.  The last thing she needs is the sudden, and  admittedly very flattering attention, of one Mason MacCoy, a man who's  harbored a secret love for Charlene for more than ten years.<br />As with  the other books of Curtiss Ann Matlock's that I've read, the pages of  DRIVING LESSONS fairly teem with eccentric but loveable characters and  down-home, humor-laced wisdom.  Don't expect to find lots of fast-paced  action here, or a bunch of steamy sex scenes.  Those aren't Matlock's  style.  What you WILL find is an uncanny ability to capture the magic in  small moments and everyday occurrences, and a sexual chemistry that far  surpasses anything merely physical. Since this is primarily Charlene's  story, the romance seems more of a subplot than the driving force of the  storyline, but it is a lovely, sweet romance all the same.  My only  complaint, and it's a minor one, is that the ending seemed a tad abrupt  after such a luxuriously developed story -- and I did want to know what  happened with Rainey and her baby! But Charlene and Mason are wonderful  characters, flawed and appealing and real. . .as are all the inhabitants of  Valentine, Oklahoma.  Another keeper for sure.	2000-08-16
US	50011777	RQTUVJZ1AFLYW	0373243448	775914179	Lost-and-Found Groom (Place Called Home)	Books	5	89	95	N	N	Compelling blend of fantasy and realism	While researching a story in far-flung Santa Estella, hardheaded  journalist Kendra Jenner finds herself in the middle of a vicious  hurricane. . .and unexpectedly in the arms of a stranger who speaks  virtually no English.  Fear leads to passion leads to their making a baby,  a baby which Kendra fully expects to raise on her own, since her search for  Matthew's father -- who she only knows as Paulo Ayudor -- is a fruitless  one.  Then, three years later, her &quot;Paulo&quot; shows up out of the  blue at her home in Wyoming, speaking the perfect English of an American,  and identifying himself as Daniel Delligati.  He announces he's come for  his son. . .and for her.<br />Thus begins a beautifully crafted story  revolving around two of the most determined characters you'll ever meet,  both of whom want only what is right, and best, for the little boy  conceived out of what was perhaps only a desperate affirmation of life in a  life-threatening situation. . . or perhaps the beginning of a love that  runs deeper than fear and self-doubt and recriminations.  Daniel is a hero  to die for, at once vulnerable and courageous, gentle and iron-willed.  And  the scenes with toddler Matthew are priceless, not to mention oh-so-true.  A thoroughly enjoyable read.	2000-08-06
US	50011777	R27A69RI0BBLPM	0449149676	542957512	On Mystic Lake: A Novel	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Emotionally compelling read	ON MYSTIC LAKE isn't perfect, by any means.  The plot is fairly  predictable, at times bordering on the melodramatic, and the pregnancy part  of the storyline doesn't ring true on many counts.  But when you find  yourself unable to stop reading, when the characters' plights suck you  right in so that the flaws no longer matter, you know you've found a  winner.<br />Ms. Hannah's vivid prose is rich and textured, but never  overpowering.  And she certainly knows how to manipulate the reader's  emotions!  Her characters are wonderfully flawed and confused and make some  really dumb decisions -- just like real people do -- but I still found  myself rooting for them because they were basically good people at heart.  Yes, there is a Hallmark quality to this book, but there's nothing wrong  with that.  A few cathartic tears now and then are good for a body.  The  upshot is, I thoroughly enjoyed this book on a basic, emotional level as  I've enjoyed few books this past year or so, and certainly plan on reading  more of Ms. Hannah's work in the future.	2000-08-04
US	50011777	RPXH5G3D7AQJI	0440224314	876713512	Back Stab	Books	3	5	5	N	N	Enjoyable read, but. . .	There are a lot of plusses to this book:  great sense of place; some very clever wordplay; an engaging, imperfect heroine; an intriguing storyline.  Unfortunately, problems with pacing and structure detracted me from being  able to lose myself in BACKSTAB as much as I might otherwise have done, or  to give it an unqualified recommendation.<br />Using conversation to convey  information to the reader is certainly a viable storytelling device; having  characters talking at great length about things one or both already knows,  however, can come off sounding contrived.  Ms. Viets uses this device quite  a bit, unfortunately to the exclusion of more actual real-time scenes,  where we get to see characters in conflict with each other.  In other  words, there's a lot of chit-chat, and not a whole lot of action, which  strains the pacing.  I was also aware of a lot of repetition -- the same  information kept being served up in different ways -- which became tedious  after a while.  And her habit of telling us what had happened, then  backtracking and filling us in on what led up to the event, was, at times,  disconcerting.  I, too, figured out the killer much too easily, in part  because there weren't sufficient red herrings to keep me off-balance.  And  when the reader figures out whodunit before the protagonist does, that  tends to make the protagonist seem a bit dull-witted, which Francesca  certainly isn't.<br />Granted, many of the aspects of the book which  bothered me won't even faze other readers.  And I certainly liked what I  read well enough to try another one of her books. I had just hoped for  something a bit more focused.	2000-08-01
US	50011777	R1W4RWF92BUUAE	0373440987	374226488	2 Romantic Comedies: Tryst of Fate / Counterfeit Cowboy (Harlequin Duets, No. 32)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A delightful pair of stories from a talented duo	Light on conflict but filled with appealing, believeable characters and loads of chuckles, both TRYST OF FATE by Isabel Sharpe, and the second in Carrie Alexander's &quot;The Cowgirl Club&quot; series, COUNTERFEIT COWBOY,  are guaranteed to chase away the blahs.<br />Rosemary Jenkins, the winsome,  starry-eyed heroine in TRYST OF FATE, has determined it's time to fulfill  Her Destiny. . .which she at first believes is manifest in an old high  school jock she had a crush on oh-so-many years ago, and who has now  returned to the tiny Maine town where Rosemary grew up.  So, in a cloud of  rose-colored fervor, she hotfoots it back to Lazy Pines. . .only to  discover that, in fact, her REAL Destiny lies with her old buddy Jordan  Phillips, who's harbored fantasies about Rosemary for the same number of  years.  Except, newly published author Jordan has just arrived at the  profound -- and extremely inconvenient realization, considering Rosemary's  sudden revelation -- that sex gives him writer's block.  With a deadline  looming for his second book, what on earth is he going to do?<br />Ah, but  determined, ever-optimistic Rosemary has a cure, right up her rose-colored  sleeve. . .<br />Isabel Sharpe's wry writing style reminds me of a cross  between Elizabeth Bevarly and Jennifer Crusie.  Her characterizations are  superb and amazingly complex considering the length of these books, and her  vivid, laugh-a-minute prose breathes life into the goofy, quirky, slightly  nutty town of Lazy Pines.<br />And Carrie Alexander continues her charming  &quot;The Cowgirl Club&quot; miniseries, this time focusing on  &quot;average&quot; Molly Broome, slightly overweight, plain brown hair,  plain brown eyes. . .the type of woman you can rely on to fix whatever  needs fixing.  Except, when Molly signs on as lodge manager for the  decrepit Triple Eight Dude Ranch, everything she tries to &quot;fix&quot;  somehow manages to go wrong.  But maybe that has something to do with  Raleigh Tate, the lodge's head wrangler whose  cowboy persona doesn't quite  ring true, somehow. . .maybe because he's actually a Fed investigating a  possible counterfeit ring that leads right back to the Triple Eight.<br />Ms.  Alexander also has a knack for creating, with a minimum of words,  delightfully eccentric and easy-to-see characters.  Etta Sue, the lodge's  so-called &quot;housekeeper&quot;, is a scream, as is the big-haired,  big-bosomed, country-singer wannabe Sharlene Jackleen, the lodge's  erstwhile housemaid.  And Raleigh, a to- die-for hero if ever there was one  -- gotta love a big, strong man with kittens crawling all over him -- sees  in the &quot;ordinary&quot; Molly the woman of his dreams, giving hope to  women everywhere carrying a few extra inches on their hips!  Add a cozy  little mystery to solve, and you've got another really fun read.<br />Another pair of highly enjoyable stories from Duets!te, the lodge's head wrangler whose  cowboy persona doesn't quite  ring true, somehow. . .maybe because he's actually a Fed investigating a  possible counterfeit ring that leads right back to the Triple Eight.<br />Ms.  Alexander also has a knack for creating, with a minimum of words,  delightfully eccentric and easy-to-see characters.  Etta Sue, the lodge's  so-called &quot;housekeeper&quot;, is a scream, as is the big-haired,  big-bosomed, country-singer wannabe Sharlene Jackleen, the lodge's  erstwhile housemaid.  And Raleigh, a to- die-for hero if ever there was one  -- gotta love a big, strong man with kittens crawling all over him -- sees  in the &quot;ordinary&quot; Molly the woman of his dreams, giving hope to  women everywhere carrying a few extra inches on their hips!  Add a cozy  little mystery to solve, and you've got another really fun read.   <br />Another pair of highly enjoyable stories from Duets!	2000-07-30
US	50011777	R2F0402XP52FB5	0373763085	92785851	Cowboy For Keeps (Desire, 1308)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Wonderful debut novel from a fine writer	I remember when Kristy Gold announced the sale of her first book to Silhouette Desire, how excited and thrilled she was.  Then, in short order, she announced a second sale. . .then a third. . .and (I believe) a fourth.  . .all before her first book, COWBOY FOR KEEPS, hit the stands.<br />Now I  know why.<br />Ms. Gold writes about people, not characters.  Real people with  weaknesses as well as strengths, with the courage to make -- and stand by  -- sometimes difficult, even painful decisions.  And the reader can't help  but get caught up in their trials, by turns agonizing and joying with them  as those hard choices become RIGHT choices.<br />Will Baker, a quiet-spoken,  man-oh-man cowboy affiliated with the stable where Dana Landry's young,  profoundly deaf daughter is about to start riding lessons, can do the one  thing with her daughter that Dana can't, which is communicate with her.  Since Callie's father Rob -- Dana's ex and easily a contender for Jerk of  the Century -- has severely interfered in his daughter's special  communication needs, Dana has never learned to sign, a skill which her  extremely bright and determined daughter has picked up on her own.  Will,  however, signs fluently, and thus is a bond forged between the kind cowboy  with his carefully guarded reasons for refusing himself the one thing he  wants most in the world, and the child who finds in Will the father she  certainly doesn't have in the flagrantly obnoxious Rob.<br />But the bond that  seems intent on forging itself between Will and Callie's mother proves to  be far more problematic.  At first, Dana is more than willing to admit her  attraction to Will is predominantly physical, but she soon realizes what  she most wants is to break down the barriers this wonderful man has erected  around his good-as-gold heart, maybe even bring healing to a soul she  intuitively knows is wounded.<br />But he seems equally intent on not letting  her accomplish her mission.<br />This is a beautifully crafted novel, from  start to finish.  While there's plenty of sexual tension -- and no skimping  on the lovescenes, either -- Ms. Gold deftly intertwines the physical with  the emotional on every page.  She handles the issue of what it's like to  live with a deaf family member with poignancy, sensitivity, and most of  all, realism.  These are people to care about and root for. . .and Kristi  Gold an author to watch.<br />Brava.ly crafted novel, from  start to finish.  While there's plenty of sexual tension -- and no skimping  on the lovescenes, either -- Ms. Gold deftly intertwines the physical with  the emotional on every page.  She handles the issue of what it's like to  live with a deaf family member with poignancy, sensitivity, and most of  all, realism.  These are people to care about and root for. . .and Kristi  Gold an author to watch.<br />Brava.	2000-07-28
US	50011777	R3VBWQ42C4JGA	037344091X	847092981	Duets # 25 (The Bachelor Trap/Custom Built Cowboy)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	A delightful pair of light, fun reads	The problem, for me, with most anthologies or paired-up books is that so often I might like one story, but not the other(s).  Not so with this duo of romantic comedies.  Both THE BACHELOR TRAP by Kristen Gabriel and  CUSTOM-BUILT COWBOY by Carrie Alexander feature sophisticated, witty prose  that was both fresh and fun to read; fanciful, lighthearted plotlines; and  endearing, appealing characters whose antics -- and dialogue -- brought  several chuckles.<br />In THE BACHELOR TRAP, food critic Nina Walker has a  Godzilla-sized wrestler-turned-&quot;chef&quot; on her case, big-time, for  dissing his less-than-stellar culinary talents in her newspaper column.  When she realizes &quot;the Bonecrusher&quot; is going to be one of the  entrants in a major contest out-of-town -- a contest at which Nina is one  of the judges -- she figures perhaps it wouldn't hurt to have a bodyguard,  aka former boxing star -- and dedicated bachelor -- Jake Callahan.  Except,  Jake's Aunt Sophie, a fortuneteller wbo runs the Cafe Romeo, has read the  pair's coffee grounds (no tea leaves for this lady!) and determined the  pair is perfect for each other, even if the &quot;pair&quot; in question  begs to differ!<br />Although the couple never &quot;gets in on&quot; within  the context of the storyline (though not for lack of either opportunity or  desire), there's a lot of sizzle between the gentle, protective Jake and  the driven, smart-as-a-whip Nina. And this is one of the most perfectly  paced books I think I've ever read -- each scene flows effortlessly into  the next.  I just zipped through this story.<br />And in Carrie Alexander's  CUSTOM-BUILT COWBOY, what's city-born-and-bred, cowboy-crazed Grace Farrow  to do when Shane McHenry, the man of her dreams, saunters into New York  City to sell her a horse. . .and ends up stealing her heart?  Of course,  there's this minor problem of her having just accepted another man's  marriage proposal, the perfect man for a Farrow. . .<br />Shane is one of the  dearest heroes I've read in a while, strong and quiet and appreciative of  Grace's ebullience and idiosyncracies.  And while Ms. Alexander deftly  handles Shane's introduction to the big city, she resists the common  impulse to make the cowboy look like a yokel in his flashier surroundings.  Shane has no problem holding his own in nutso New York!  And Grace is  adorable, despite -- or more likely, because of -- her penchant for getting  herself in trouble without even trying. Only Grace could lose an engagement  ring in such an &quot;engaging&quot; manner!<br />If you're looking for  realism, forget it.  Both books are pure fantasy, plot-wise -- especially  as both take place within unrealistically short time-frames. These stories  are strictly for fun, to make the reader smile and giggle and otherwise  just have a good time reading.  I enjoyed the heck out of both of  them.<br />And by the way, both stories are the first in two miniseries, so in  future months, we not only get to see Jake's two equally commitment-shy  brothers fall prey to their aunt's coffee-ground readings, but Grace's two  best friends -- her cohorts in the &quot;Cowgirl Club&quot; -- find their  perfect cowboys, as well.is one of the  dearest heroes I've read in a while, strong and quiet and appreciative of  Grace's ebullience and idiosyncracies.  And while Ms. Alexander deftly  handles Shane's introduction to the big city, she resists the common  impulse to make the cowboy look like a yokel in his flashier surroundings.   Shane has no problem holding his own in nutso New York!  And Grace is  adorable, despite -- or more likely, because of -- her penchant for getting  herself in trouble without even trying. Only Grace could lose an engagement  ring in such an &quot;engaging&quot; manner! <br />If you're looking for  realism, forget it.  Both books are pure fantasy, plot-wise -- especially  as both take place within unrealistically short time-frames. These stories  are strictly for fun, to make the reader smile and giggle and otherwise  just have a good time reading.  I enjoyed the heck out of both of  them.<br />And by the way, both stories are the first in two miniseries, so in  future months, we not only get to see Jake's two equally commitment-shy  brothers fall prey to their aunt's coffee-ground readings, but Grace's two  best friends -- her cohorts in the &quot;Cowgirl Club&quot; -- find their  perfect cowboys, as well.	2000-07-22
US	50011777	R2OAVUIT5JHLNA	0804114609	777164082	Patty Jane's House of Curl	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Not the same old, same old	The characters and situations in PATTY JANE'S HOUSE OF CURL are quirky enough to border on the bizarre; the author switches point-of-view with almost irreverant abandon; and there are some real tear-jerker moments in  here, the kind that make you want to scream &quot;NO!  You CAN'T let that  happen!&quot;<br />But I adored this book.<br />Ms. Lanvik isn't afraid to take  chances, to create characters who are different and take chances as well.  The prose is fresh, and therefore more dynamic than you find in more  &quot;conventional&quot; novels, but not so off-center that it becomes a  chore to read.  There's an almost surreal quality about this book that I  found absolutely enchanting.  Ms. Lanvik definitely made a fan out of me.	2000-07-17
US	50011777	R22WOAS45ICKA7	080411868X	293874514	Welcome to the World, Baby Girl!	Books	5	1	1	N	N	An amazing feat	WELCOME TO THE WORLD, BABY GIRL was my first Fannie Flagg novel; I'm sure it won't be my last. The intricately structured plot alone is enough to earn the five stars -- patience truly hath her perfect work with this book,  as Ms. Flagg carefully lays out all her puzzle pieces, giving you tiny  glimpses of the big picture, then slowly and carefully and brilliantly  begins to fit them all together.  But the characters and dialogue -- the  southern scenes are just a hoot! -- are truly wonderful as well.  I  couldn't read this one fast enough.	2000-07-17
US	50011777	R33N9WWU8MCWKE	0553562797	956188321	When Venus Fell	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Rich and complex	While WHEN VENUS FELL isn't as long or plotheavy as BLUE WILLOW or A PLACE TO CALL HOME, it is no less a fine example of Ms. Smith's work.  The characters are wonderfully neurotic and/or dysfunctional -- and as  developed as they need to be, I felt, within the parameters of a book of  this length -- the prose is vivid and emotion-provoking, and the love story  deeply satisfying.<br />As with the other books of hers I've read, WHEN VENUS  FELL pulls no punches when dealing with the more tragic elements of the  storyline -- be prepared for some scenes to make you sick at heart.  But  there's a lot of humor, too, often popping up at unexpected moments, with  just enough mystery threaded through to keep those pages turning.<br />A  thoroughly enjoyable read.	2000-07-17
US	50011777	R3VAHGZ0LVC87S	1551664992	168884639	Lost Highways	Books	5	4	4	N	N	This woman writes from the soul	I've only had the pleasure -- thus far -- of reading three of Curtiss Ann Matlock's books, but she is one of those authors whose books I literally snatch off the shelves when I see them. In LOST HIGHWAYS, as in both IF  WISHES WERE HORSES and THE LOVES OF RUBY DEE, her prose is warm, witty,  delightfully quirky, and thoroughly honest -- just like her characters.  She allows her characters time not only the luxury of being human, but  enough time to fall in love for the reader to not only enjoy the ride, but  to accept, without a doubt, that the couple has made the right decision.  Don't expect to find lots of &quot;hot&quot; lovescenes here, but rest  assured you'll find a lovestory that'll just make you feel good about being  a member of the crazy human race.	2000-07-15
US	50011777	RY4TPJKR52DH2	0312971125	441085885	Crazy for You	Books	5	2	2	N	N	More than JUST sexy and outrageous!	In CRAZY FOR YOU, all the criteria that make an author an autobuy for me are met in spades:  realistic, appealing characters; complex, flawlessly executed plot; wickedly witty prose that captures -- and keeps -- my  attention.<br />To be honest, Ms. Crusie has an edge to her writing that, in a  lesser author's hands, might actually turn me off, the humor  notwithstanding. But in CRAZY FOR YOU, the sheer brilliance of her craft  softens that edge, infusing depth and richness into what might otherwise be  nothing more than a sexy, outrageous romance.<br />I thoroughly enjoyed this  book.	2000-07-15
US	50011777	R232B3D1YNY58K	0312971346	442694342	High Five (Stephanie Plum, No. 5) (Stephanie Plum Novels)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	My kind of &quot;comfort read&quot;!	Most readers define a &quot;comfort read&quot; as a book by an author who meets their expectations, time after time.  Well, Janet Evanovich's Stephanie Plum series does exactly that for me -- I know, when I pick up  one of the books in these series, that the characters are going to be  simultaneously endearing and outrageous, that Stephanie's going to be the  cause of something blowing up, and that I'm going to laugh, and laugh, and  laugh.<br />Don't expect gritty realism from any of these books -- even though  there's something so real about these whacko characters, you feel as if you  know them (or would like to).  This is sheer slapstick entertainment, but  brilliantly executed slapstick.  Ms. Evanvich's ability to interweave a  thousand plot points and still keep everything straight is nothing short of  phenomenal.  But her real forte is her top-notch characterization. . .and  those who've been keeping up with the series from the beginning can, I'm  sure, see just how far some of these characters have come since the  beginning.  Even though she's impetuous as ever, Stephanie has grown since  ONE FOR THE MONEY, as has her lover/nemesis, Joe Morelli.  Keeping a  concept fresh and the characters evolving and vital is no mean feat through  a half-dozen books, but Ms. Evanovich seems to be doing just fine on that  score, as far as this reader is concerned.<br />Now to see how long I can hold  out before I get the hardback of HOT SIX.	2000-07-15
US	50011777	R19SQNVZ9W677W	0380810484	244602149	How to Trap a Tycoon	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Delightful, sophisticated humor	One can't simply read ABOUT Liz Bevarly's characters; one lives THROUGH them, in large part due to the author's wonderful, unhurried meanderings through their heads.  HOW TO TRAP A TYCOON is no exception.  On the  surface, the story line may seem a bit far-fetched, but is nonetheless a  perfect vehicle for Ms. Bevarly's strong, unique voice.  And, if you  scratch just below the surface, you'll find a nice little theme going there  about identity and how the face we show to the world isn't always who we  really are.<br />Which is one reason I, for one, absolutely adored the  secondary romance, finding its more serious tone a nice counterbalance to  the main storyline. In fact, I'm not sure I didn't love the more layered  Lucas and Edie -- both of whom were not at all who they appeared to be on  the surface -- even more than Adam and Dorsey.<br />And let me tell ya --  there are a couple lines in there that I'm sure are destined for the Most  Often Quoted Hall of Fame.<br />Fun book.	2000-07-12
US	50011777	RGLRY4RIVRVW3	0515093556	626534170	Belinda	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Much more than I expected	I picked BELINDA up almost on a lark, since I don't generally seek out &quot;erotic&quot; novels, and Ms. Rice's vampire books -- although I know many people who absolutely love them -- didn't appeal to me.  I was delighted to find myself immediately sucked into the story, in large part due to Ms. Rice's rich, lush prose and complex characterizations.  Yes, this is very &quot;eighties&quot;, with its big, glitzy, Hollywood-set plot, but the crux of the story is timeless.  But what most amazed me was the astounding believeability of the love story, a feat only possible because of Ms. Rice's extraordinary sensitivity for and insight into her two main characters.  Circumstances have made Belinda, the child-woman, far too old for her sixteen years; and yet, somehow, there's an almost translucent innocence about her, an ingenuousness, that has managed to remain intact despite her most unchildlike childhood.  And for all Jeremy Walker's human fraility and weakness, he is at heart a true Southern gentlemen -- in his own idiosycratic way. As Jeremy puts it, he and Belinda are &quot;in synochronicity&quot; with each other -- each has something else the other desperately needs: the ability to grant personal freedom from the lies and deception each has been living with for years, the freedom to finally be who they really are.<br />Although I did, at times, find myself wishing the pace had been a bit tighter, all in all, I was very, very impressed.  And by the way, even though some consider this &quot;erotica&quot;, compared with many books now being published, the actually love scenes were fairly tame.  Granted, the subject matter itself will undoubtedly make some people cringe -- and, indeed, the issue of Jeremy's relationship with an underage girl is at the heart of the plot (although in a historical novel, a marriage between a man in his forties to a teenaged girl wouldn't be considered abnormal at all!) -- but if you're expecting blatant titillation, you won't find it here.  What you'll find instead is a beautifully crafted, sensitive study of art and life and love and even reality.<br />I'm so glad I acted on my impulse..  What you'll find instead is a beautifully crafted, sensitive study of art and life and love and even reality.<br />I'm so glad I acted on my impulse.	2000-07-12
US	50011777	R2FROTOSCJ4FXO	0380796104	122477335	Lucy Sullivan Is Getting Married	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Definitely worth reading	While I agree with others that LUCY SULLIVAN IS GETTING MARRIED doesn't have quite the same &quot;zing&quot; as WATERMELON, I still enjoyed LUCY very, very much. I adore Marion Keyes' voice, for one thing, as well as her  uncanny, often hilarious take on the ordinary &quot;stuff&quot; of women's  lives.  She's the kind of writer whose words stick in your head, who comes  up with metaphors so wonderful, you wish (if you're a writer, at least)  you'd thought of them first.  And LUCY certainly delivered on that  score.<br />I did have a hard time with the main character, though, for a good  portion of the book, because of her obsession with a man I wouldn't have  let anywhere near me, and her blindness to not only the pointlessness of  her lifestyle, but to her father's condition.  Finally, however, it  occurred to me that maybe Ms. Keyes was trying to make a point, here?  That  maybe we were witnessing the beginning of Lucy's growth curve?<br />Which  turned out to be the case.  Despite my reservations in the earlier part of  the story, I found the conclusion extremely satisfying.  No, all the loose  ends aren't neatly tied up, but I was left with the definitely feeling that  Lucy was well on the way to getting her head, and life, straightened out.  I'm definitely looking forward to the next of Ms. Keyes' books to find its  way across the pond.	2000-07-12
US	50011777	R3T5A5PTJATJR0	0061097101	632958433	The Saving Graces: A Novel	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Wonderful book	When a set of characters becomes so real, the reader is no longer aware of the words on the page, you know you've found magic.  Such is the case with THE SAVING GRACES.  The subjects may not be original -- dealing with  terminal illness, infertility, loneliness, and the like -- but then, what  is, in this world?  But Gaffney handles her material with both a freshness  and sensitivity -- and a delightful, subtle sense of humor -- that  immediately won this reader over. Be patient with the first few chapters --  it may take a while to get used to the four different first-person voices  -- but your patience will be well rewarded.<br />THE SAVING GRACES immediately  vaulted Ms. Gaffney right to the top echelon of my &quot;favorite  authors&quot; list.	2000-07-12
US	50011777	RMJ6UB7ZJNWUM	0821765302	163579334	Only In Your Arms (Zebra Splendor Historical Romances)	Books	3	2	3	N	N	A lot of promise in this somewhat flawed effort	Ms. Cozzens has obviously put a great deal of heart and soul -- and very hard work -- into ONLY IN YOUR ARMS.  For the most part, she's put her extensive research on Elizabethan England to good use -- most of the  details are right on, and one certainly gets a nice feel for the period.  The story moves along at a good clip, and the climax is a real page-turner,  even for an old, jaded reader like me.  The story is a good one, well worth  reading, and it's lovely to see disproven the theory that a character in  the theatre -- the hero is a Shakepearean actor -- is somehow unappealing.  However, I had problems with certain aspects of the book which kept me  from giving it a full five stars.<br />While I understood why she chose the  basic premise for both the primary and secondary lovestories -- overcoming  class barriers in order to find true love -- I frankly had a little trouble  suspending disbelief enough to fully &quot;buy&quot; the resolutions.  Or  the seventeen-year-old heroine's seeming ability to slip away on her own as  much as this one did.  But this is fantasy, heaven knows, not a  documentary, so I doubt this aspect would bother a lot of readers.  I had a  bit more trouble with the lovers' overly-affectionate dialogue at times, a  few anachronisms that jarred me right out of the story, and the constantly  shifting viewpoints -- on occasion, the POV shifted within the same  paragraph, which was very disconcerting.  And the hero's repeated attempts  to push the heroine away from her own sake seemed a little forced to me  after a while.  More than that, however, the storytelling was more  &quot;typical&quot; than I was hoping to find.  All in all, a nicely enough  done historical romance, but not enough to set it apart from dozens of  others for this reader's admittedly picky tastes.<br />Even so, ONLY IN YOUR  ARMS has a lot of good things going for it -- and Ms. Cozzens a tremendous  potential I'm sure she hasn't even begun to realize.	2000-06-27
US	50011777	RUH2F40NPIOG6	0373258879	657759395	Too Hot To Sleep (Blaze) (Temptation, 787)	Books	5	12	12	N	N	A lot of steak with this sizzle!	Georgia Adam's relationship with her so-called boyfriend has stalled out -- why, after ten months of dating, hasn't their relationship become more intimate?  And why, she wonders, does she care so much?  What is this  libidinous monster raging inside an otherwise orderly, &quot;good&quot;  girl?  And how does one go about, exactly, convincing the man she picked  precisely because he is safe and predictable and trustworthy (in other  words, the antithesis of her philandering father -- a man whom she loved  dearly, all the same) that it's way past time to up the ante, as it were?<br />When a girlfriend suggests phone sex as a means to put some spark into  the flat relationship, Georgia is at first leery.  After all, what does she  know about stuff like that?  But she's desperate, and she can't sleep  anyway, so. . .why not?<br />Except, what she doesn't realize is that, in  keying in her boyfriend's number into her new -- and exasperatingly  defective -- answering machine, she's transposed two numbers.<br />Ken  Medlock, one of Birminghams' Finest, can't quite believe his ears -- or his  good fortune -- when he gets this truly amazing phone call in the middle of  the night.  Now, the right thing, he knows, would be to tell the woman she  has the wrong number.  But. . .you know how it goes.  And it's been a  really lousy day. . .and, well, one thing leads to another, including, some  time later, the first decent night's sleep the insomniac guy has had in  weeks.<br />And there things would have ended. . .except, through a fluke, Ken  meets the unsuspecting Georgia the following day, and finds himself knocked  clear into next week.  Not to mention torn between wanting to get to know  the strong, decent woman with the passionate nature better and not knowing  how on earth to tell her that sure as heck wasn't Rob she was talking to  the previous night.<br />Since this is a Harlequin Temptation Blaze, one  expects the book to be &quot;hot&quot; -- in other words, blatantly sexy.  And this one is, no doubt about it.  And, if that were the book's ONLY  claim to fame, this reader probably would not be endorsing it.  Sex for its  own sake in any book -- even in a line as sensual as Blaze -- is not my cup  of tea.  However, having previously enjoyed Stephanie Bond's work, I  figured if anyone could take this premise and wring it for everything it  was worth, she could.  I was not disappointed.<br />Georgia Adams is a woman  coming to terms with her sexuality, confused by whether or not her feelings  are normal and natural.  And the two men in her life - - our very human  hero, Ken, and her &quot;perfect&quot; boyfriend Rob -- simply represent  two sides of her personality:  the side that wants equates &quot;good&quot;  with &quot;safe&quot;, and the passionate side.  As Ken struggles with his  dilemma of how to win over a woman he's basically lied to (an element  that's handled with great skill, in this reader's opinion), Georgia's  psyche is having a grand old time battling it out, as well.  These are very  real people, deftly drawn and presented -- no mean feat in a short book --  and Ms. Bond tells their story with a great deal of humor and compassion.  For me, reading TOO HOT TO SLEEP was like devouring a small, sinfully rich  piece of fine chocolate.tly sexy.   And this one is, no doubt about it.  And, if that were the book's ONLY  claim to fame, this reader probably would not be endorsing it.  Sex for its  own sake in any book -- even in a line as sensual as Blaze -- is not my cup  of tea.  However, having previously enjoyed Stephanie Bond's work, I  figured if anyone could take this premise and wring it for everything it  was worth, she could.  I was not disappointed.<br />Georgia Adams is a woman  coming to terms with her sexuality, confused by whether or not her feelings  are normal and natural.  And the two men in her life - - our very human  hero, Ken, and her &quot;perfect&quot; boyfriend Rob -- simply represent  two sides of her personality:  the side that wants equates &quot;good&quot;  with &quot;safe&quot;, and the passionate side.  As Ken struggles with his  dilemma of how to win over a woman he's basically lied to (an element  that's handled with great skill, in this reader's opinion), Georgia's  psyche is having a grand old time battling it out, as well.  These are very  real people, deftly drawn and presented -- no mean feat in a short book --  and Ms. Bond tells their story with a great deal of humor and compassion.   For me, reading TOO HOT TO SLEEP was like devouring a small, sinfully rich  piece of fine chocolate.	2000-06-19
US	50011777	R1CTJ44V3D22A7	0373079834	995016477	The Comeback of Con MacNeill (Silhouette Intimate Moments No. 983)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Another winner!	Virginia Kantra's writing is, quite simply, extraordinary.  Humor, tenderness, action, sizzling sensuality -- this story has it all, and then some.  With vivid, evocative prose, the author creates characters whose  heartbeats become the reader's own.  While sexual tension shimmers  throughout THE COMEBACK OF CON MACNEILL, not once does it seem artificial  or contrived, but rather a natural, explosive reaction between two  brilliantly crafted characters. And her ability to tightly interweave the  romance with other aspects of the plot is unsurpassed.  Brava!	2000-02-22
US	50011777	R31BYG6XMZ38ZT	0373079834	995016477	The Comeback of Con MacNeill (Silhouette Intimate Moments No. 983)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Another winner!	Virginia Kantra's writing is, quite simply, extraordinary.  Humor, tenderness, action, sizzling sensuality -- this story has it all, and then some.  With vivid, evocative prose, the author creates characters whose  heartbeats become the reader's own.  While sexual tension shimmers  throughout THE COMEBACK OF CON MACNEILL, not once does it seem artificial  or contrived, but rather a natural, explosive reaction between two  brilliantly crafted characters. And her ability to tightly interweave the  romance with other aspects of the plot is unsurpassed.  Brava!	2000-02-22
US	50011777	RGLTV65NSPAYQ	0373194315	442710894	If The Ring Fits...	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Lovely, lighthearted fairy tale romance!	When American heiress Christina Armstrong tries on an innocent-looking ring at the ball given for Prince Richard de Thierry's thirtieth birthday, she can't get it off.  Which, given the lovely young lady's propensity for  disaster, isn't at all surprising.  But legend has it the ring's enchanted.  . .and that the Prince must marry the woman attached to the finger on which  the ring resides within a week, or forfeit the crown.  Which wouldn't be  such a bad thing, maybe -- after all, while they try everything under the  sun to get the ring off, the couple does discover they enjoy each other's  company -- except for a minor sticking point:  neither wants to marry the  other. After a life of suffocating plenty -- but a workaholic father who  was never around -- all Christina wants is to find a nice, ordinary guy  who'll provide her with a nice, ordinary family life out on a farm  somewhere.  And as far as Prince Richard is concerned, silly notions of  enchanted rings have no place in his plan to drag the tiny kingdom of San  Montico into the present. If only he didn't want to kiss her so much. .  .<br />IF THE RING FITS is a real charmer, laced with wit and just the right  amount of sizzle between the characters for a traditional romance.  Enchanting, indeed!	2000-02-22
US	50011777	R3V45MYG66AZQT	037307963X	811084231	Eve's Wedding Knight: The Sisters Waskowitz (Silhouette Intimate Moments, 963)	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Aaahhhh. . .	That's what I said at the end of this beautiful, funny, heart-tugging story.  Kat Creighton's strong, evocative prose, her wonderfully drawn characters, snagged this reader's emotions and empathy right from the  beginning and refused to let go.<br />The premise is unabashedly larger than  life -- how many forty-something women do YOU know who overhear a  conversation between her Las Vegas hotelier fiance and his  &quot;bodyguards&quot; a half hour before her wedding, making her realize  the sweet, attentive man who'd swept her off her feet is actually a cold,  calculating crime boss?  And then, how many of us are likely to find  ourselves working undercover for the Feds. . .and falling in love with the  taciturn agent whose sole mission, for more than five years, has been to  bring this guy down? Yet, threaded throughout the fantasy elements are  heartfelt, and realistic, sentiments about marriage and relationships --  and what it takes to make them work long after the first flare of  infatuation burns out.<br />EVE'S WEDDING KNIGHT is a seamless blend of  escapist fun and realism, of sweetness and high-voltage sexual tension, and  easily earns my vote as one of the best romances I've read this year.	1999-10-22
US	50011777	R3W3RY1KR991OO	0373290837	576911778	Lady Sarah's Son (Harlequin Historicals #483)	Books	5	13	15	N	N	A beautifully told story	It's no big surprise that Gayle Wilson should have a way with words.  With her teaching background, her work with gifted children, one would expect finely crafted, vivid prose.  But Ms. Wilson is far more than a wordsmith:  she is an artist, conveying a sense of time and place, making her readers  empathize with her finely drawn characters, balancing historical accuracy  with contemporary sensibilities in ways that prove that romance novels can  be far more than simply escapist fare.<br />LADY SARAH'S SON is not your  ordinary marriage-of-convenience story.  This is a story about forgiveness  and honor and loyalty, about a love strong enough to rise to the surface of  a veritable ocean of fear and doubt.  These are not perfect people; they  are REAL people, people we care about and root for, and, in the end,  rejoice with.  Ms. Wilson captures the period for us naturally and  unobtrusively, the mark of a truly talented historical writer.	1999-10-20
US	50011777	R49JGNQ3WBKVS	0373079621	992566393	The Admiral's Bride ( Silhouette Intimate Moments Tall, Dark & Dangerous, #962)	Books	5	11	13	N	N	Dynamite story!	Suzanne Brockmann's work just gets better and better, as far as I'm concerned.  I'm not a big military/suspense fan, but Ms. Brockmann does such a terrific job with her characters, and never lets the suspense  elements of the story overshadow the romance (which is why I'm reading the  book, after all!) that I've yet to read one of her books that I haven't  enjoyed, no matter what the storyline.<br />Zoe and Jake are simply wonderful  characters, and Ms. Brockmann's sensitive handling of the age-difference  issue was superb.  Jake's conflicts regarding his attraction to Zoe while  still in love with his dead wife were truly heart-wrenching, and the  resolution believeable and oh-so-satisfying.  Loved the characters, loved  the book.<br />Thanks, Suzanne!	1999-10-20
US	50011777	R8JSX39ATB9YA	0373193882	509950556	A Bride Worth Waiting For (Silhouette Romance, No. 1388)	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Thoroughly delightful!	As adolescents, Mark, Adam, and Tory were the Three Musketeers -- fiercely loyal to each other, inseparable, the very best of friends.  Unfortunately, once grown, both men fall in love with the irrepressible heroine, and both  ask her to marry them.  But Tory chooses &quot;safe&quot; Mark over  &quot;wild&quot; Adam, who, brokenhearted but unwilling to get in the way,  leaves town. Who could predict, however, that Mark would be diagnosed with  cancer two weeks after his and Tory's marriage?  When he dies six years  later, his young widow eventually resumes something resembling a life, but  one devoid of laughter.  A year after his friend's death, Adam -- now a  successful attorney -- receives a purposefully delayed letter from Mark,  asking him to go back to Tory, to make her laugh again. . .and perhaps to  discover what Mark knew all along?  Although Adam's gut reaction rebels  against his friend's last request, eventually loyalty -- and perhaps  curiosity? -- win out.  Determined to follow Mark's instructions to the  letter, and nothing more, Adam is surprised to discover some things never  really change.<br />Written in a fresh, dynamic voice, with spunky, funny,  charming characters that the author lets speak for themselves, A Bride  Worth Waiting For shows that even traditional romance doesn't have to be  &quot;typical&quot;.  Brilliantly blending laugh-out-loud humor with  surprise moments of genuine, tear-invoking bittersweetness, Ms. Coulter has  done a superb job.  I, for one, will definitely be looking for more of her  work.	1999-08-14
US	50011777	R22UAUCWKGICKG	0373079443	7105564	One Summer's Knight (The Sisters Waskowitz) (Silhouette Intimate Moments, 944)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A definite keeper!	In ONE SUMMER'S KNIGHT, Kathleen Creighton proves what an extraordinarily talented writer can do with a popular plot device.  Summer Waskowitz, a single mother with two children, finds her life in danger when both the mob  and the FBI think she can lead them to her gambling-addicted ex-husband.  She hires the best lawyer she can find to help protect her rights, and her  children, only to find herself suddenly in his protective custody when  their trailer home is torched.  Rich, cultured, controlled, Riley Grogan  seems to the financially-strapped, emotionally-battered Summer like the  prince in Cinderella.  Except Summer realizes this is one fairy tale that  can't have a happy ending:  Riley clearly isn't comfortable around  children, or the veterinarian's collection of eccentric -- and vociferous!  -- pets.  What she doesn't fully understand is that Riley needs her healing  magic, for a heart scarred and hardened by an unkind past.<br />Creighton's  strong, compelling voice -- her affinity for the South is so strong, you  can feel the humidity as you read -- takes this far beyond a  &quot;typical&quot; category romance read.  The scenes with the children,  and the pets, are not only &quot;oh-yeah&quot; realistic, but  laugh-out-loud funny; her prose is rich and distinctive; and the emotional  tension between the hero and heroine simply vibrates from the page.  Wonderful characters, a wonderful read.	1999-08-03
US	50011777	R3QFDF6ZK8X8C0	0373258364	631363535	Brazen (Blaze)	Books	5	19	19	N	N	An impressive debut!	Give many writers the premise of a heroine seeking a no-strings, week-long affair with a perfect stranger, not to mention that both parties are not exactly being honest with each other, and what you often get is  &quot;hot&quot; for the sake of &quot;hot&quot;, but a love story that's  less than believeable.  Not so with Carly Phillips's BRAZEN. Yes, the love  scenes sizzle, but within the context of a tender, surprise love affair  that quickly turns into the real thing.  Ms. Phillips takes great care to  show the motivation for her characters' lies of omission, and well as their  basic goodness and integrity, a complexity of characterization not often  found in short romances. Definitely a writer to watch.	1999-05-25
US	50011777	R27MD50YAD451A	0373079362	397330399	For His Eyes Only (Silhouette Intimate Moments)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Five stars isn't enough!	FOR HIS EYES ONLY presents that rare and wonderful combination of near-flawless writing technique, beautifully realized characters, sharp and funny dialogue, faultless attention to detail, and a tight, thoroughly  believable plot.  The maturity, freshness, and grace of this writer's voice  make it hard to believe this is her &quot;first&quot; novel.  As close to  perfect as they come.	1999-05-23
US	50011777	R2GW5WLUNNYKSZ	0380800195	365140139	My Man Pendleton	Books	5	0	1	N	N	MY MAN PENDLETON is fast-paced, witty fun!	Take wry, dry, Noel Coward-esque dialogue and characters and throw them  into the nineties, and you've got MY MAN PENDLETON.  Sizzling with sexual  tension that never takes itself too seriously, this cleverly written book  never drops the madcap pace for a moment, as Kit McClellan, a spoiled  almost-an-heiress finds herself wondering why she's actually attracted to  Pendleton, the latest in a long line of lackeys her father has foisted on  her in a frantic attempt to get her hitched before the family loses its  nearly hundred million dollar fortune.  Escapist fare at its best, with  just enough tugs at the old heartstrings now and again to make the reader  care about this collection of goofy, eccentric characters.	1998-09-22
US	50011777	RQG192BPBP9YY	0373078811	114856616	Mary'S Child (Whose Child?) (Silhouette Intimate Moments)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Mary's Child is a delight!	Suspense, humor, emotion, and some of the most believeable sexual tension  I've ever read, all wrapped up in Terese Ramin's distinctive, superb prose.  MARY'S CHILD has it all.  A rich, wonderful reading experience.	1998-09-04
