US	50038626	R1LE430XBOQOC8	1561709387	453876142	Manifesting Good Luck Cards, Growth and Enlightenment (Small Card Decks)	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Time for levity....lightness....frivolity	Pick a card...any card! So we're on a huge spiritual journey and things are &quot;how they are&quot;...so we can still have a little fun to mix things up a bit! <br />Manifesting Good Luck ...who wouldn't want to do that?<br />I wish you happiness on your journey from here to there...<br />but in the meantime...I wish you love! And I will share my card of meaning today for this moment....&quot;As is an atom, so is the universe.&quot; On the reverse side of the card, it says truly eloquently...&quot;When I recognize and see the whole in every part of the whole, I open up to the Magic of the Universe.&quot; and we certainly wouldn't want to miss that for a moment!<br /> A meaningful little elephant graces these cards, and I learned that his name is Ganesh and that he loves food...especially sweets! Perhaps the universe is calling you and these cards are sharing messages for your growth and enlightenment.	2003-01-28
US	50038626	R2O6FQ8TBD1UIG	1878424319	991834329	The Four Agreements: A Practical Guide to Personal Freedom (A Toltec Wisdom Book)	Books	5	4	7	N	N	Wisdom of the Ancient Toltec....speaks now.	How books come to our awareness is magical, and purposeful, and speaks to our desire for information and knowledge to uplift us and take us to new realms of our hearts desires...our deepest hearts desires. This is a lovely book...easy to read and absorb. Take what resonates with you and see what happens! The special prayer that connects us to experience a communion with our Creator was lovely, and felt wonderful, and the words of the prayers were beautiful words and here is One now....&quot;Thank you for living inside me with all your love, with your pure and boundless spirit, with your warm and radiant light.&quot; Please know that the energy creating the emotion is Love.	2002-12-16
US	50038626	R12BD9MUNVFU9T	074343658X	653120197	The Afterlife Experiments: Breakthrough Scientific Evidence of Life After Death	Books	5	1	4	N	N	Kudos to Gary Schwartz ......for this visionary work	Certainly inspiration is what fuels our quest for future possibilities of expanding thinking and this book is definitely a pioneer in that regard. Survival of consciousness is a valid and absolutely necessary, and powerfully uplifting, experience. Experience is a word that describes what happens when we are present, and the moment we are observing comes alive with information, and it is exhilarating and purposeful! The exhaustive research revealed an accurate and pure experience for all of those involved. No doubt, it is beautifully apparent in this endeavor to say... you had to &quot;be there.&quot;	2002-11-16
US	50038626	R1CSG4OORQNX42	1561706396	706261143	Healing With The Angels Oracle Cards (Large Card Decks)	Books	5	5	8	N	N	Angelic Love.......Divine Love............ Much Love	Enchanted by the feeling,that surrounds me, as the love from my  angels nourishes my soul, and joyful notes inside my heart wish to be revealed and expressed through words.<BR>These cards are lovely in feeling and design.Stating (on the back of the box) that the angels only counsel us from a place of love, with no negative cards in this deck...what does this mean to us in our search for connection to the Divine gift of life? It means many wonderful things.It means the Divine gift of our life energy is available to us always in any moment of need.That Gods love, and the love from angels all, is so close to us we can breathe it in and bask in this energy of love and light. It's a wonderful feeling.<BR>The energy is from you and the all of everything...that is love.<BR>So, how do we connect to this awesome gift? Relax and believe it. Surround yourself in a comforting cocoon...your choice! Look at each card and exchange love with your angels...they are sincerely waiting for you to ask for their comforting presence. Enjoy!	2002-09-21
US	50038626	R88FWI3EWMTIH	0446528196	839124681	Feathers Brush My Heart: True Stories of Mothers Touching  Their Daughters' Lives After Death	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Dedicated to my mother .....and yours	The words in the opening dedication page, For my mother...and yours...what a lovely way to enter this gift of love, to our hearts, from all of the hearts who shared their experiences after the loss of their mothers.The experiences were all unique and wonderful affirmations that our loved ones are always willing to be near us in \\"whatever way is meaningful\\" to us. So it seems although the experiences were very different, according to each authors perspective and interpretation... I found all of them to be exquisitely profound and beautiful! The stories that resonated with my own experience were the ones in which nature played a large part...especially hummingbirds and butterflies that appear at special moments, and feel comforting, and really are signs from our loved ones,as I experienced these and many more wonderful signs from my son and then my mother...and we are always connected by our love for our love never ends.As I walked past the books at [local store] to see if they had Angel Cards (they did)...I know that all of the ladies who shared their stories believe and understand what I mean when I say that \\"this book found me!\\"  Linda Hartley, author of \\"Letters from Heaven\\" Website	2002-09-09
US	50038626	RQ5KQTHH9PC0T	039914790X	732513476	Walking in the Garden of Souls	Books	5	7	8	N	N	A Lovely Walk in Serenity	What a lovely book! The title feels welcoming, and comforting, and explains from George Anderson's whole lives experience....profound wonderful things! \\"Walking in the Garden of Souls\\" is a very worthy book, worthy of our time and attention.I wanted to read it all at once, and was interested in every word! As things suddenly became apparent, this gift was given to George just for this moment in time, so he could counsel and educate us on different realms of being, all natural and real, to help soothe our souls and heal our hearts!This is a wonderful and thoughtful walk to happiness...a beautiful place that exists for all of us.<br />George Anderson and Andrew Barone, who is executive director of the George Anderson Grief Support program,  and a co-founder of the Foundation for Hope are two names I had never heard of until now but two names I will remember forever for their kindness in this moment! ...	2002-07-09
US	50038626	RA7UBQYQTZL6U	1889071099	334044702	Awakening to Zero Point: The Collective Initiation	Books	5	9	15	N	N	The Flower of Life : Matrix of Creation	If ever we needed this information... we need it now, thank you Gregg for being able to share all of your lives knowledge, and your inner knowing, in a totally informative and fascinating book. Gregg is an earth scientist and also very connected to the earth because he shows us, by what he does, that he truly cares about the earth in profoundly moving ways that most of us, who live on earth, never realize. So we all live on the surface of the earth but Gregg lives deep in the heart of the earth, and what I mean by this is that he feels the earths heartbeat and understands what it's telling us. Mixing the most amazing concepts together and asking only that we resonate to those that hold our inner truth. Our hearts are blossoming in a dance with creation that is miraculous and wonderful.Truly an awesome time to be.	2002-06-04
US	50038626	R2GY8251JUE6RI	1573221848	232603894	Blessing: The Art and the Practice	Books	5	13	13	N	N	&quot;Rainbow of Blessings&quot;	Do you remember when you exchanged a &quot;moment&quot; with a stranger and saw a twinkle in their eye that shined from them so brightly that the rest of your day went so well you were &quot;totally great&quot;? That because the light that you saw was actually a reflection of your spirit coming back to you in joy? David Spangler shares this in this amazing treasure chest of thoughts, ideas and  helpful exercises to allow us all an opportunity to become that blessing to ourselves and others,to enter that &quot;blessing space.&quot;<BR>On page 17 he explains that the art of blessing is the practice of being connected to each other in the most amazing way because we all have this space inside us readily available.When we discover this and &quot;realize it&quot; a beautiful thing happens and that gift to each other...is our &quot;self.&quot; By accepting the love that flows through us we effortlessly receive blessings, give blessings to others and become a blessing in and of itself. I ask a blessing for the thought of a &quot;radiance of blessings&quot; as David Spangler shares Dr. Brugh Joy, his friend and colleagues special thought, to shower us with light and love! A blessing that will appear as a Rainbow of humanities love for its &quot;self.&quot;	2002-03-22
US	50038626	R2ZA7OBF7015E7	1561708216	911710341	An Ancient Magical Prayer	Books	5	85	101	N	N	Trust Your Heart....An Ancient Magical Prayer Awaits	1. Trust your heart.<br />2. Have a hopeful thought.<br />3. Feel joyful.<br />4. Positive energy.<br />5. No doubt.<br />6. Believe.<br />7. As the emotion moves through you<br />  feel the energy.<br />8. Like a computer transmission.<br />9. When it finishes...it stops.<br />10.You have just received and<br />  transmitted Love from God.<br />11.Say a hopeful prayer,let God<br />  take it from there.	2002-01-29
US	50038626	R3GJAJQGMR8HZK	060980796X	387333628	The Isaiah Effect: Decoding the Lost Science of Prayer and Prophecy	Books	5	8	10	N	N	The Moment is Now for Global Peace and Cooperation	On page 226 Gregg Braden asks this question, &quot;What would it take?&quot; &quot;What event could possibly reach beyond the differences of appearance, past concerns of daily routines, to &quot;awaken the memory&quot; of a common history, leading into a shared future in the only world we know?&quot; This is a very small world and on Sept.11,2001 we were collectively shaken to the very &quot;Core&quot; of our existence.Perhaps this is our opportunity to realize how precious peace in our world really is for all people. Anyone interested in being part of the healing of the world will embrace Gregg Braden's profound insights.The subtle but very noticeable &quot;shifts&quot; may be part of your awareness, and as each of us feels this connection it creates a  wave of hope as it spreads and blossoms so beautifully; and as our thoughts unite us with hope for our future and the emotion touches our hearts, each heart will share this peace with the next as the feeling based prayer helps us remember...&quot;that we are here to love and to find a love even greater than any known by the angels of the heavens.&quot; This book is dedicated to our search for love and the memory of our power to bring heaven to earth. Please read The Isaiah Effect: Decoding the Lost Science of Prayer and Prophecy and trust that when the thought of hope and positive feeling based prayers are felt within our hearts all hearts will resonate as one and this world will be a wonderful place to be.	2002-01-22
US	50038626	R1NYE0ICACHQRH	1561708224	798497251	Science and Soul (Dialogues at the Chopra Center for Well Being)	Books	5	25	33	N	N	Survival of Consciousness after Death? .... Really!	Survival of consciousness after death is a topic of great interest to all of us who have lost loved ones that we cherish. As Linda Russek's poignant question to Gary Schwartz, &quot;do you think my father Henry Russek is still alive?&quot; captured Gary's  interest and developed into a love for not only Linda's love for her father, but Linda as well. Linda's love for her father was great...and she had a desire for understanding this and who does the universe send her? Gary Schwartz...see how this works? Neat! And Gary had discovered several years earlier, before Linda asked this question, a controversial and challenging theory that he did not wish to risk his well respected reputation on by presenting it at the time it was so &quot;far out&quot; he feared he would be ridiculed and did not want to risk this by presenting this...so now it seems it is not &quot;far out&quot; at all but &quot;far in&quot;...  <br />Where do our loved ones go? Vanished...disappeared? How can this be?... I hope this dialogue with Gary and Deepak at the Chopra Center for Well Being in La Jolla, Ca. is one of many that we will be gifted with by such respected men as Deepak Chopra and Gary Schwartz to help us understand where science and spirituality have interconnected at this juncture in time...all of us will benefit by this heartfelt research,in a easily understandable language, that people who are not in these fields of awareness can understand. Both Deepak and Gary are very well respected and have HUGE credentials towards their credibility that are too numerous to mention but let's just say they are both distinguished and caring...knowledgable and sharing... we are definitely in good company!  <br />Deepak Chopra and Gary Schwartz are to be congratulated for being able to integrate such huge life experiences and knowledge from all their lifelong studies in a dialogue that is easy to comprehend and lead us to an astonishing conclusion that gives huge hope to all of us searching, listening for the words that say science is able to prove that survival of consciousness is not just wishful thinking but actually exists... his research has been subjected to a high degree of scrutiny and no flaw exists in the logic...again...hopeful to hear.<br />So...Gary and Linda had a secret and a &quot;big secret&quot; at that! And now the time has come to share with all of us and it is a beautiful secret! What better time than the present for such a gift? Thank you both for being so deligent in your passionate pursuit that you would both study it to such a degree with such heartfelt endeavor that the discovery sounds so delightful even now after all of the years that have accumulated waiting for mainstream consciousness to &quot;catch up&quot;...and now we see that Deepak is also able to integrate his wealth of knowledge to successfully integrate all of his lives experience to share this at this moment. And who do I think brought Deepak and Gary together? Deepak's father and Linda's father are both distinguished cardiologists and we hear that they are very caring, as well, and who better than two doctors in Heaven watching over and helping their children on earth accomplish outstanding scientific advancements...both caring and compassionate on earth and now able to bring all of this together because they can! Both heart doctors! I find this extremely interesting that this goes full circle from love from our hearts on earth and extends to the Heavens and back continuing that love...how beautiful is that? <br />Thank you all for this enlightening discussion...delightful and full of enthusiasm for what the future holds and is ready to reveal...definitely hopeful!	2001-07-17
US	50038626	R3Q60NGWH632AI	1580624782	882612283	Heaven & Beyond: Conversations With Souls in Transition	Books	5	0	1	N	N	God bless the Angels of Hospice	Heaven and Beyond is a lovely book of insightful information to help all of us as we go through illness, our own or a loved ones, and our natural transitions from this earthly realm to a higher, more beautiful realm in Heaven. So many families go through the caregiving phase doing the best they know how to do and sometimes with no help in sight. Realizing that help is available everywhere if we just ask for it, is many times the hardest thing to see. Sometimes the caregiver does not realize how much better the quality of care would be with a little time out to restore their energy to themselves that such a close relationship requires... because the very word caregiver tells us that this is a close loving relationship and the caregiver role is very complicated in it that so many emotions, thoughts , memories and hopes and desires for the present as well as the future are present, and also incorporated into this situation is all of the daily stuff one must also try to accomplish... and attention to all of the other family members as well...so our plate is full and we really want to do this and now we must step aside and let our hearts see what is best for our loved ones and when we realize that death is not the end and truly a new beginning we can let compassion fill our hearts and let our loved ones go if that is their wish...only out of our sight but still connected to us in all ways...always because God has told us so...because He loves us.  The caregiver definitely needs time to recover the energy that is sent to their loved one and this is the time to learn about Hospice Care. Hospice care is devoted to letting the normal stages of our transition take place but with attention to the dying loved ones needs. This is truly a very difficult time because by the time we get to this stage we desperately need help because all of our resources of energy and coping skills are gone. It is hard for us to think that our loved one will soon be out of our sight but they are only gone from their earthly existence to their eternal spiritual existence which is forever. So by leading with compassion and understanding and the training that the special Hospice nurses bring our loved ones don't have to suffer one more moment and this is the gift of love from all of the special Angels...the Hospice nurses...we love you all!   This message to Barbara and Trudy is a beautiful message to share with us that we are never alone...ever...and even though it may seem so at times all help surrounds us...for Gods lovely Angels are always here and all we have to do is ask! Blessings of Gods love and light and all the Angels embrace the messages shared in this book. Believing it will make it so. How things are brought into our awareness are really not so surprising if we remember that we are always connected to God through His lovely Angels of Light and that when we on earth are ready to step up to another level of understanding all pathways will open for His love to arrive. Accepting this love is easy to do then acknowledge He who sent it and do your part to share this message so that all hearts will be healed by this love...and all the stars in Heaven danced and Heaven and Beyond is just the first step up to our new level of understanding that will connect all there is forever in Love. A very Special thank you to the Hospice nurses that helped us so gently through my Mother's transition to Heaven...my heart to yours! Love, Linda	2001-06-25
US	50038626	R2JZROW8RAKJBN	1561707449	8083307	The Conscious Universe (Dialogues at the Chopra Center for Well Being)	Books	5	21	23	N	N	The Conscious Universe ---  by  Deepak Chopra	Expressing the Conscious Universe is how we are...it's what we do. Everyone is an expression of doing whatever we are doing at a given point in time, and at the moment I am typing this review sharing my experience of where my consciousness lives.<br />If the ocean is an expression of the vastness of our consciousness and each wave that ebbs and flows in an out of existence represents our life, then when our life ends it goes back into the all of our existence to form a new wave of consciousness again, and each time it blends with the all of everything there is and has been forever, then the next time we are able to bring ourselves up to another level of understanding that enriches each of us and is a benefit to the whole of creation.<br />Just a note...when Deepak shares at the end of this lesson that when we are looking at anything from our view in our consciousness such as a flower, or a tree or a beautiful sunset or our Beloved...that it is God seeing Himself or Herself through His eyes and that is all.I was so moved by these words that I listened over and over again so I could experience that moment of realization...beautiful and thought provoking.	2001-06-25
US	50038626	R2X368GH8ZMTL	0609606484	138837846	The Soul in Love: Classic Poems of Ecstasy and Exaltation	Books	5	6	6	N	N	The Soul in Love   - Poems of Ecstasy	The Soul in Love is a lovely journey... passionate in its offerings of how our souls are stirred by the words of Rumi, Hafiz, Kabir, Mirabai and Tagore. I was especially touched by the words of Tagore. In Distant Words Tagore inspires us with the morning dew expressed in these few words-<br />&quot;You send me love letters in the moon,&quot; The night said to the sun. &quot;And I leave you my answer As tears upon the grass.&quot;<br />All lovely and thought provoking!	2001-06-21
US	50038626	RFC2QNWLRHJWO	0609806947	848867925	Perfect Health: The Complete Mind/Body Guide, Revised and Updated Edition	Books	5	4	12	N	N	Perfect Health  ---- revisited --- progress report	Reading Perfect Health again to reaffirm my desire to get healthy from the inside out. Having a little more trouble integrating the mind-body connection than I anticipated. I know what needs to be done and why. Thought I could navigate this and be in a better place to share now but many things happened that kept me from accomplishing my goal. I've reread and absorbed all of the information on the doshas and this is very important, I see that being a kapha dosha that I need to do the exact opposite of what I'm currently doing to start this journey to Perfect Health. I have integrated the quantum field information and digested it completely. Now I see that the recent loss of my Mother has all of my attention on processing my feelings, thoughts and emotions and although I am grieving well for my Mother because I know we are still together in a new relationship, I am still experiencing a disturbance between what my mind knows to be true and what my earthly memories are and it seems I must not go back and forth challeging my minds acceptance for in this struggle back and forth in my reality I see that my body is suffering terribly. I have realized this and now am getting back on track in accepting this new place where I know my Mother lives. If my daily routine had been healthy during my Mothers transition I would have been in a much better place phyically now but habits and daily routines are hard to adjust it seems. Small changes of choices in eating and attention and awareness to what I am doing are definitely helpful. Walking is something I have started to do in a small way and must continue this to realize what my mind perceives I will look like when I accomplish this. So my mind is way ahead of my body on this and realizing and doing are two different things I find. So I will reread Perfect Health and if I can accomplish my vision I will let you know how I accomplished this...wish me luck!	2001-06-21
US	50038626	R3OF8R81XCUR2R	0609806947	848867925	Perfect Health: The Complete Mind/Body Guide, Revised and Updated Edition	Books	5	10	14	N	N	Perfect Health: The Complete Mind Body Guide - Deepak Chopra	Perfect Health is possible and Deepak shares his knowledge with us, on how to accomplish this, in this newly revised edition that includes all of the new medical insights so that we may reach this goal and experience Perfect Health.   Ayurveda tells us that freedom from sickness depends on contacting our own awareness, bringing it into balance, and then extending that balance to the body. The goal is to integrate our mind-body connection so that we may experience wholeness in our &quot;being&quot; that extends to our body by balancing our doshas according to our own individual requirements to establish Perfect Health.<br />We learn that following the clues in nature to reestablish our essential balance with nature is important. We are so connected to the earth that the foods that grow in the same area as we do are important in creating that balance with nature. Realizing that our diet, stress reduction, neuromuscular integration. exercise and our daily routine are all a part of this balance is so important to us and that the only way we will be able to accomplish this is by putting our awareness and attention to these issues. Where our awareness, our consciousness, and attention reside is not some &quot;new age&quot; idea but an idea whose time has come!<br />How to put this newfound information in action to accomplish the mind-body balancing act? I see that my spiritual journey, that has me soaring through the cosmos has my mind, my spirit and my soul at the heights of awareness and bliss! My body unfortunately has been left behind on this journey and now needs some attention. Busy and productive days and &quot;being&quot; mindful, thoughtful, meditative and calm has been so interesting that I didn't realize how neglected my body was until...something didn't fit, I saw a recent picture and was &quot;shocked&quot;, how did this happen? Ok, let's see...standing in the kitchen eating, my laptop surrounded by comforts such as sodas and candy...my &quot;staples&quot; for the day until an early dinner eaten in haste because suddenly I'm ravenous...then filled to distress all evening! This is not my idea of gracious dining. What am I doing? So I finished reading Perfect Health...ordered a new bathing suit for inspiration, and now my mind reaches into the quantum field and virtual reality transforms how I envision myself. My mind adores the picture I see! Let's see if I can accomplish this vision! How will I do? I'll let you know in June!	2001-04-06
US	50038626	R276FRP7N2UJO9	1561707457	485970989	The Cosmic Mind and Submanifest Order of Being (Dialogues at the Chopra Center for Well Being)	Books	5	40	44	N	N	Cosmic Dance with God	Music begins this fascinating experience with Deepak that sets the stage for Gods arrival, although Deepak kiddingly jokes that perhaps he will have to wait...God that is...actually his entire discussion revolves around God. The music sounds like what I believe a cosmic dance would sound like...and we learn that this music comes from Malcolm's soul and is his expression from his inner self expressed outwardly to benefit all of creation with the beauty. It begins our dance with God, a dance that lasts forever for our soul is eternal. Deepak quotes Bible scripture as saying that in the Gospel of John &quot;first there was the word and the word became flesh.&quot; In the book of Genesis God said &quot;let there be light&quot; and created light, and we are beings of light manifested from Gods love wrapped in the flesh to experience our human being-ness. When science and spirituality meet it creates &quot;weird science&quot; which is explained on page 88 of &quot;The Living Energy Universe&quot; by Gary Schwartz and Linda Russek, as &quot;strange&quot;, &quot;spirit&quot;, and &quot;fate&quot; three interesting meanings when considering these theories that Deepak presents. Totally fascinated by the subject matter I listened to this tape over and over. I grasped the concept completely! It raises some interesting theories and Deepak is such a wonderful teacher that he can easily make this &quot;mixed bag&quot; readily understandable by non-scientists, as well. Deepak easily captures the listeners attention...completely. I understand all concepts and they make sense to me so I would like to share my understanding of what I learned. That we are beings of light. That photons are units of light. That electrons are units of energy. That the interaction of these two elements form a cluster of photons electrically charged by electrons through our neural network and when mixed with a squirt of chemicals called neuro-peptides creates a chemical reaction that develops from our intention to create mind into matter... to create a thought. That this is from the very same &quot;stuff&quot; from which God created light. That everything comes from the same stuff of Gods creation without exception. That our soul is encoded with all of our memories and that each souls interaction with the next changes our make-up and includes each experience, changing and including that experience, based on our perception of the experience. That we flicker off and on in existence...a gap...disappear...gap...appear and that when we fall into the gap we experience &quot;magic and miracles&quot;...and that we experience material reality, quantum reality and virtual reality and the place where the virtual reality takes place is where we manifest our intentions and desires into reality and thats what matters! Please read this for your &quot;self&quot; understanding. It is totally cosmic!	2001-03-03
US	50038626	R1GKWALYEQ1OHN	1878424114	876583836	The Seven Spiritual Laws of Success: A Practical Guide to the Fulfillment of Your Dreams	Books	5	6	9	N	N	&quot;The Seven Spiritual Laws of Success&quot;----  &quot; revisited&quot;	Knowing how to be spiritual is going to be our quest, for our future understanding depends on it. It's going back to our roots so to speak...from where we came...remember? If &quot;Healing Society&quot; by Dr Seung Heun Lee requests a spiritual awakening to accomplish our goal of &quot;playing well together&quot; to accomplish our higher purpose of peace on earth... who better than a wise and compassionate teacher, we know as Deepak Chopra, to tell and show us how to be this? Deepak generously leads us to a beautiful place where all we have to do is &quot;be.&quot; Spirit is what we are... and love is who we are... and where we come from and then return to. What more can we desire? Maybe to revisit that perfect state from which we came,perhaps?  Maybe everything is possible and simple. Maybe we should return to our innocence. In innocence we are fearless in our thoughts and actions...totally in tune with our inner self. Let's be beautiful together...in spirit shared from our hearts where God lives. Read or reread &quot;The Seven Spiritual Laws of Success&quot; A Practical Guide to the Fulfillment of your Dreams and Deepak will give you the gift of your inner you...your &quot;self&quot;...dare to be beautiful!	2001-02-19
US	50038626	R3E8PCMBRPMU7G	1571741895	232587113	Healing Society: A Prescription for Global Enlightenment (Walsch Book)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Healing Humanities Heart ...Together	&quot;Healing Society&quot; A Prescription for Global Enlightenment is a powerful message that we must all listen to... for it is our direction  for understanding how we must be spiritual in order to survive...it is our hope!  Dr Seung Heun Lee is designated one of the fifty preeminent spiritual leaders of the world by the World Peace summit of Religious and Spiritual leaders at the UN. Terming himself an &quot;enlightenment activist&quot; his vision is complete. He states that &quot;ki&quot; energy is our common bond of energy that connects our body, mind, and soul and shares his personal experience of this energy to educate us on how we ourselves may connect to this divine energy.  When we experience this we are  connecting to our life energy. This message is so vital to our understanding of how raising our collective energy, our awareness,our consciousness to a higher purpose will accomplish our oneness! This is a beautiful message of hope! Dr Lee begins this message with an amazing Prayer of Peace that he delivered to the General Assembly of the United Nations on August 28,2000. This Prayer of Peace is for all people for we truly have one heart..the heart to heal our world together for the benefit of all humanity!	2001-01-25
US	50038626	R3J5ZVZMSTOH4O	1880032422	751792541	Creating Affluence: Wealth Consciousness in the Field of All Possibilities	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Creating Affluence : Wealth Consciousness by Deepak Chopra	Sometimes it only takes a few words to be profound. Study as Deepak suggests and the words will transform your consciousness. The very word affluence projects a place of grandeur in my mind. Wealth consciousness is abundance of the spirit to claim its rightful place in the world. If you have this it allows the universe to treat you at every opportunity for your kindness to it. Open up to the abundance of the universe and playfully amuse yourself with everything you can imagine. Affluence is a state of mind, everyone can go there at any time and you will be pleasantly surprised when you arrive... let Deepak show you how to get there.	2001-01-12
US	50038626	R2K5O4BDEF1I0O	0684815478	630208337	Angelspeake: How to Talk With Your Angels	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Angelspeake- How to Talk with Your Angels	For whatever reason Barbara and Trudy were chosen to do this special work for God so that everyone may know of His love for us,I can't say I know the reason, but I am thankful for that! It is their privilege to share this so the world will know how much God and all of His Angels love us. We learn through His lovely messengers of love and light...The Angels... and they surround us with their love. That they are here for us in all ways is true and that we are only to believe is true. Remember when you decided Santa Claus wasn't real? The Easter Bunny? The Tooth Fairy? That's when they left you because you lost your faith in them. Restore your faith to believe and all things are possible through the magic of belief! Ask God's beautiful Angels to be with you in your time of need, whenever, for whatever reason any time of the day or night just like when you need God...and they are available just like God is and it really is that simple! Many blessings surround the earth, you are important, we all matter and love will rule. Happy hearts full of joy rise above the &quot;daily stuff&quot; that we all must endure to accept the joy that is ours to claim for our faith in ourselves and each other. Just...do your best! Best wishes from my heart to yours as each day brings us closer to realizing our connection to each other and to everything there is! Merry Christmas and joy to the world! PS. My Angels led me to discover the special message that I needed to hear at just the right moment! Jason had given this book to me and I didn't see that he had signed it and I was led to this by my Angels because they knew that was the perfect help to heal my heart that day as my heart ached from the loss of Jason...Jason had given this to me on Valentine's Day 1996 and it is a most treasured gift to my heart from Jason's and Angels delivered it to me!...	2000-12-23
US	50038626	R2YRTSCT86FCAP	0811826848	684665509	The Beatles Anthology	Books	5	34	45	N	N	&quot;Beatlemania&quot; in America in 1964	The Beatle's Anthology is much more than another peek at the Fab Four.Turning as I almost always do from back to front, I stopped first to see what was shared In 1964. The pictures accurately portray a time of innocence in America captured by the happy and fresh &quot;look&quot; of these four young and extremely high energized young men. All  teenage girls adored the Beatle's because they were so cute but I believe their energy is what actually captured our attention. The pictures through-out the anthology portray not only the Beatles but showcase the mood that was prevalent,as well. The feelings are totally captured by the story each picture tells about not only the evolution of the Beatles spirituality and evolution of their consciousness but the feelings that were felt not only in this country but around the world at the time, and so this is also a book that unintentionally chronicles the pulse of America, as well. (I was going to rate it a four because I would have rather had a collection of smaller books but since it also tells another story it warrants its massive bulk and is definitely a coffee table book.)It surprised me to feel and see this as I looked at the book the first time, it really was amazing and you can see by the pictures how young and fresh the Beatles looked and how their energy traveled around the world, and the pages remembering this time showed the Beatles totally happy and the energy level in the country was extremely high and they were the personification of that time! And as the pictures change it is easy to remember each time by the changing somber and reflective moods as each year brought more serious issues to our awareness.But 1964 was my year for experiencing the Beatle's and that is what I would like to share...definitely a fun year! So  I was thinking about the Beatles, because I have been hearing and reading about them recently, and stepped back in my memory to 1964, when the Beatles music made its way to our high school, in a small town in the California desert, and how the music was part of our daily reality. We all ate lunch outside by the football field, and there was a little ticket booth that we used for a music shack during lunch each day, and we played the Beatles everyday at lunchtime. My girlfriends and I worked at the Fox and Crest theaters and all of the Beatle movies were playing and we thought all of the Beatles were so cute. My boyfriend at the time became my husband and he hated the Beatles because he had to watch their movies every night when he came to pick me up after work! They had so much energy and were so cute and had such wit that they amused us. We loved the Beatles and thought Paul was so cute, and John was so deep, and George was so quiet, and Ringo always amused us with his wit. Enjoying the fun memories of a time of innocence when just like the teenagers in &quot;American Graffiti&quot; we all dragged main street then through the Fosters Freeze parking lot in a loop thru Bakers then back over to Fosters Freeze over and over seeing who was out and especially to make sure we were seen! My boyfriend let me drive his baby blue 1960 Dodge with the huge fins in back, and it had push buttons so I thought it was great, and I found out later the reason he trusted me with his car was because he wanted to make sure other guys knew I was his girlfriend! Which scored huge points with me as a result of his caring enough about me to do something so romantic! Fun memories and I see I have a Rubber Soul album with the price still on it... the price $3.96.	2000-12-07
US	50038626	R3XPTV2FGFCND	0684846314	615312863	The Wheel of Life: A Memoir of Living and Dying	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Love to Elisabeth from Linda	Dear Elisabeth, how can I possibly show the gratitude that I feel in my heart for you. Your books were so helpful to me as I searched for information to help me understand this natural part of our life, our transition that we alone must take on our own terms if left alone to accomplish this. I sincerely appreciate  your sharing your personal life story that guides us through how you would possibly know everything you are able to share with us now. Your lifes work is so important and I hope that many people will have the interest to understand what you share. My son Jason's transition was so beautiful, as things happened around us, that our family feels that we are supposed to share this experience of Jason's transition to Heaven to give others hope and that is our intention. Everything has happened to make this wish come true! I know that you have been especially blessed by the time you spent with dying children because they all have a message to share with us if we only listen. Respecting the wishes of a person as they go through the experience of death is very important and if they express wishes please &quot;go with the flow&quot; even if it disturbs you, because after all, is it not their desires that are of utmost importance at this time? Dying with dignity should be the goal surrounded by love and compassion. Please listen and let the process take you to a place of Grace that God provides us for our faith. Our faith may be different from yours but that is ok. We experienced detachment by surrendering our hearts to the process of, which God is in charge, for Jason's return journey back home to God,   and received Gods Grace for our faith. Lovingly we went through the experience of Jasons transition to Heaven and our family experienced &quot;the peace that passes understanding&quot; with a light so bright that we knew we were held in Gods heart the whole time. With Jesus always in my heart I share His message of unconditional love to all. Jason and I knew that what you believe is true Elisabeth...that when our body can no longer sustain life that our body releases our soul at that time...our Butterfly and that is exactly what happened... as Jason's watch beeps a greeting to share his approval of what I've just shared. Love from Jason in Heaven and Linda on earth	2000-11-29
US	50038626	R1N047AC6OCBTV	0060927488	754343314	A Return to Love: Reflections on the Principles of "A Course in Miracles"	Books	5	12	14	N	N	Marianne Willamson's       &quot;A Return to Love&quot;	To be of love ...to feel it to the depth of your souls existence and be so absolutely passionate about it, enough to not only receive this love...but to have such a wonderful understanding of it,so much so that you can explain it to others and show others the way &quot;to be of love&quot; is a divine gift. I don't know you Marianne, or know much about you, but what I feel is that God needed someone strong with a personality just like yours, no, actually  who he needed was you, because he knew about your determination and resolve to fight injustice as you saw it through your view, and that not only would you be able to be determined enough to understand this love for yourself but to explain it to others as well. God knew you would not only be so intriged by the ideas you &quot;accidently&quot; found but so intense and determined in your soul to understand them, that when things didn't seem right to you, you would be so incensed it would &quot;tick you off&quot; and you would definitely let everyone know about how you felt because the feelings raced through you like a wildfire. &quot;Being you&quot; was just the right &quot;mix' for this, a person with such intense emotions that you would be able to accomplish this.  I have some of your tapes and when I hear you pray the emotions I feel well up into my soul and spill out from my heart... because I feel your passion to this quest you have accepted.I feel the emotion in your heart that this gift brings you and appreciate your desire to share it. Maybe some people don't understand this love but it is divine and it is your gift to share it and I appreciate you for who you are...perfect in all ways...perfectly created by Gods love you are... Marianne. Love, Linda<br />I would like to share something very personal so that others may know that when Marianne writes about surrender she is accurate beyond imagining. She speaks of surrendering to God and that possibly we could agree to surrender things that are of no importanceto begin with and so we trifle with God trying to ease our way in to the idea of surrender...but what she shares is true...the more important it is to us...the more we must surrender and let go...detaching without expectations of the outcome... and this is what happened when my son Jason, that I speak of so often with such love, was on his return journey to God. I cannot explain how this happened I just know it did. Events unfolded as they were supposed to and God took care of every detail to perfection and surrender brought us to this place of peace we accept as Gods gift to us for our faith. I feel that God wants us to share this story and He is making everything possible to accomplish His wish. By our faith we walked into the unknown and we were rewarded for it by Gods love. Share your story with the world is what I heard to give hope to everyone...and that is my deepest hearts desire to accomplish Gods vision...begin the love is what I heard...with Jesus always in my heart I share this now. May Gods blessings to us of unconditional love be felt in every heart as we begin the love.Amen.  Love, Jason in Heaven and Linda on earth.	2000-11-12
US	50038626	R3JZVNKIFXJAC3	0451191722	226907422	Talking to Heaven: A Medium's Message of Life After Death	Books	5	21	23	N	N	James Van Praagh's  &quot;Talking to Heaven&quot; ---  a  guidebook	&quot;Talking to Heaven&quot; came to my attention, as part of my spiritual journey led me to information that explained the things that continued to happen around me, as my son Jason and I began a new way of &quot;being&quot; together after his transition to Heaven. Many things happened and I was always led right to the source of information that I needed, at just the right time, by following what &quot;others&quot; around me suggested...following only the things that resonated in my heart. I find James Van Praagh to be sincere, and humble in a very likable way,and his manner of sharing his gift of healing resonates in my heart, assuring me that he is truly genuine and I appreciate the information he shares. I believe he speaks the truth when he mentions an &quot;inner knowingness&quot; as the way to access this information, and all of the things happened before I read this book, and I assure you that we are definitely connected to our loved ones always, in &quot;all ways&quot; and gifts of love are the blessings we receive from our loved ones when we realize that being &quot;aware&quot; in a new way and trusting our feelings is all we have to do...just believe!	2000-10-20
US	50038626	R3ICTNI17IVOUT	1571740562	916454618	Conversations With God : An Uncommon Dialogue (Book 2)	Books	5	8	11	N	N	Neale...THERE IS NO SEPARATION?	Conversations with God II would be my first purchase then I bought book I, and book III and &quot;The Little Soul and the Sun&quot; by Neale Donald Walsch. Impressed by Neale's humility(which seemed to be a new experience based on Neale's own account of past behaviours, perhaps judging himself too harshly)I found I was interested in everything that God and Neale discussed. It made perfect sense to me as my son Jason and I had been experiencing conversations as our &quot;Letters from Heaven&quot; would reveal when I read my journal of what I thought would be memories of my son Jason...but what I got was much more! As Neale and God discussed so many areas of interest to me and shared some pretty insightful conversations I admit I felt like I was listening in on a private conversation. My interest consumed me! Somewhere in one of these amazing books is this sentence...there is no separation...then Neale goes on to something else. Wait I think to myself, stop, go back, I want to hear what God has to say about that! Having been writing letters to Jason and hearing his response in my head as I sat outside trying to heal my heart from the grief that consumed my soul and took me to the deepest pain my heart could ever imagine I was comforted by this sentence...there is no separation. My grief overwhelmed me at times and blindsided me with no warning. I decided I must deny no emotion and experience the anguish totally. I knew Jason would not want me to torment myself like this even though my ego seemed to thrive on this drama and took me to a place I dreaded...self-pity. How dare I wallow in this lowly place... I immediately decided to rise above this torment! That's what Jason would want me to do and suddenly I confronted my emotions and analyzed what &quot;there is no separation&quot; means.I felt Jason was near me often and things happened around me to console me with his spirit.I was definitely not &quot;running this show&quot;. Synchronicities at every turn including how I came to know about Neale's journey with God and how it consumed his life for several years. I say or think something and spirit leads me to the same thoughts...am I going out of my mind? No, I am certain something wonderful is happening and it is leading me to discover the source. Inside, everything is inside us...seek the kingdom within! This must be what it means! Neale and I arrived at this place at different times, of course, under very different circumstances but maybe not so different at all when we realize we were searching our heart for information and healing. A gift was available to us when we ventured far enough inside to see it...accept it or not? We have a choice. Thank you Neale for your dedication to such a huge gift! Love, Linda	2000-10-09
US	50038626	R1XAX8X2YS5Y0S	0767900952	755474718	The Heart's Code: Tapping the Wisdom and Power of Our Heart Energy	Books	5	85	97	N	N	Kudos to Paul Pearsall, Gary Schwartz and Linda Russek	&quot;The Living Energy Universe&quot; by Gary Schwartz and Linda Russek  and &quot;The Hearts Code&quot; by Paul Pearsall must be read together as  it offers the most understanding from each.<br /> In this &quot;New Age&quot;  it is interesting to reflect back to ancient wisdom from the Children of  the Night Rainbow, who were the people of the Polynesian Islands and the  Hawaiians, who lived in Paradise 2000 years ago and lived the essence of  Universal Living Memory. They believed that everything was alive, feeling,  evolving, and immortal.<br />At the beginning of &quot;The Living Energy  Universe&quot; Paul says a lovely Hawaiian prayer for Gary and Linda, the  book and all of the readers. Thank you what a nice thought! <br />In &quot;The  Hearts Code&quot; we find that as Paul is facing his own challenges he  receives an understanding to share with all of us that the heart conducts a  beautiful cellular &quot;symphony&quot; that is the true essence of our  being... and how else can it be when our hearts are where God  lives?<br />These two rare books were brought to my awareness by  synchrodestiny as my journey with my son Jason has continued from Heaven.  As I laid my head on my sons heart as his life support was ended... we  exchanged the love and information and energy that these books speak  of...hearts are always connected by love no matter which realm of existence  they belong to forever. <br />I hope each reader feels the hopeful message in  each of these books in their hearts, remember an open heart is  best!<br />Pauls message is a lovely message of how interconnected we really  are and when our hearts speak everyone listens and understands.	2000-09-04
US	50038626	R2KYSWU3NTB4WR	0471332267	717234998	Vital Energy: The 7 Keys to Invigorate Body, Mind, and Soul	Books	5	21	27	N	N	Synchrodestiny + Knowledge=  Vital Energy	David Simon,what a rare jewel. Having been drawn to your book by  synchrodestiny, I am truly appreciative of your understanding of all that  incorporates our &quot;Being&quot;. Now I will be able to take my earth  tendencies and balance them effectively following your advice, which will  be a pleasure. Reading the vitality questionnaire... my score revealed that  my vital energy is great and my enthusiasm for life abundant and that I  could give my newly purchased book to someone else and be on my way... but  still... what to do about my search for balancing my body?  Still at a loss  as to the &quot;how&quot; of balancing my earth body with my playful  spirit, mind and soul, I read on and was very happy to discover my answers.  I will use this book as a workbook even though it is a hard cover. Every  page answers every question I wish I had known how to ask...and now I do.	2000-08-25
US	50038626	R34HQ3IX3YI0E	1571741704	203822087	The Living Energy Universe	Books	5	22	33	N	N	Eternal Butterfly Universe	How wonderful for two dedicated scientists to let us listen in on their  thoughts as they ponder creation and survival of consciousness after death,  giving us the readers the potential to envision all the levels of life as  we explore this book and the systemic memory process.<br /> On this journey to  remember who we are,they take us on interesting paths suggesting different  possibilities to awaken us.<br /> University of Arizona scientists Dr Gary  Schwartz and Dr Linda Russek are to be congratulated on being able to  successfully integrate huge scientific theory,(understandable to  non-scientists as well), with hopeful spiritual ideas and concepts for us  to ponder...asking what if everything remembered?<br />  Reading this gives  hope to all of us who have lost loved ones that we cherish! As Linda's  heart asks Gary's mind an important  question...&quot;Is my father Henry  still alive?&quot; Gary's response has to be &quot;Yes&quot; and I know how  to prove it.<br />Now thirteen years later, the time is ripe for Gary's  &quot;overdeveloped sense of wonder&quot; and his gift from his parents...  &quot;the passion for possibilities&quot; to astonish us with the proof!  Gary... the Linda's of the world are counting on you!	2000-08-18
US	50038626	R2S5BJ7ZDWDINI	1878424114	876583836	The Seven Spiritual Laws of Success: A Practical Guide to the Fulfillment of Your Dreams	Books	5	19	28	N	N	A Banquet with Deepak	Deepak generously shares his wealth of knowledge,...again,in this &quot;little book of secrets&quot; that share with all of us &quot;The  Seven Spiritual Laws of Success&quot;, A Practical Guide To The Fulfillment  of Your Dreams.<br />Deepak's &quot;secrets&quot; reveal that... 1) Pure  Potentiality-everything is available to us 2)Giving-there is an endless  supply and we may use everything and at the same time give everything to  others 3)Karma-realizing that the universe remembers everything and never  forgets and responds with rewards and consequences 4)The Law of Least  Effort-go with the flow 5)Intention and Desire-releasing your thoughts to  the universe 6)Law of Detachment-herein lies our peace 7)Dharma - joy in  being<br />Deepak always offers&quot;food for thought&quot;...the table is set  and you are invited to dine,please RSVP...the universe is waiting for your  reply!I hope you enjoy the banquet!	2000-08-17
US	50038626	R22Z9UISYKS4NG	0312970242	810225053	Deepak Chopra's The Angel is Near	Books	4	6	14	N	N	Is Didi a figment of the imagination?	Deepak Chopra's &quot;The Angel is Near&quot; demands our attention and  reveals the varied layers of reality that materialize in our dreams and in  the realms of our imaginations.<br />Is Didi real... or a figment of  imagination... and does it really matter?<br />Did the story evolve in real  time or a dream state...or both? <br />Only the dreamer can interpret his  meaning and sharing the concepts open new vistas in our realization that  our story is of our own choosing and if we don't like the story we are  <br />in...we are only to turn a page in our understanding and start...  &quot;nu&quot;?	2000-08-10
