US	50045286	R28H7BBQXIN97J	0792264657	212892464	Another Vietnam: Pictures of the War from the Other Side	Books	2	8	26	N	N	Beautiful Lies	The Cliff Notes version of the critics and reviewers who liked this book would be \\"Yeah, its some propaganda but its more than that\\".  To this I say it is almost nothing but propaganda.       Look at the pictures.  All except the most mundane photos are clearly staged.  The subjects are all in properly heroic stances, the enemy bodies are all perfectly mangled and in nice rows and the ambushes are textbook perfect.  Heck, the smoke even billows just right!  A good example is the swamp surgery photograph everyone seems to fawn over.  The water is calm, the supposedly wounded soldier is calmly awaiting the doctors and the surgical team show not even an iota of tension.  If you believe this is a real time pic, I have some beachfront property in Kansas Id like to sell you!    And heres another thing.  There are only three pictures involving the American military. Ive seen pictures from Communist Bloc sources of Communist Vietnamese troops prancing around dead Americans.  Why are these not in the book?  My guess is the editors couldnt get their sources to part with such pics.  Its not something the Communist Viets would want to reveal at a time when theyre fresh out of friends and desperately needing US economic assistance!    Do I think this book is worthless?  No.  It does give us at least a partial image of how the other side saw things.  And the pictures do have a stark grandeur to them.  The problem is the editors try to make this tome to be something that its not.  Its a collection of propaganda photos.  Nothing more.  Nothing less.	2005-08-04
US	50045286	R3GVQAX01ELPBP	0671795937	381852442	Rogue Warrior	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Excellent Cautionary Tale	I bought this gem as in hardback form years ago.  Ive read through it so many times its about to fall apart!  I see it as a must for anyone pursuing or contemplating a military career.  I say this because it shows what to do and what not to do to succeed.  The main elements being competence and patronage. <br /> <br />Marcinko has the first element down to a science.  Richard Marcinko is arguably the best special operations officer the American military ever produced.  If not the best, he certainly makes the short list.  In his multi-decade career, Marcinko re-wrote the book on Naval Special Warfare many times.  As a junior officer, he was in the vanguard of conducting more aggressive (and successful) operations in Vitenam than most of his peers were inclined to do.  After the war was over, he took command of an entire SEAL team and moved it into operating on a larger scale.  He did this because he correctly saw that such units would be deployed in larger formations in the future.  Then there is the crown jewel of the Marcinko career....SEAL Team 6.  Marcinko developed this premier counter-terror/high value mission force from the ground up. Today, Americans can sleep better at night because of Marcinko's skill and leadership in getting this unit off the drawing board. <br /> <br />Unfortunately for Marcinko, he fails in patronage.  To get further in the American military, one must have friends in high places to sing your praises and protect you.  You must also avoid alienating others, especially your peers and superiors.  The author was actually good at nurturing relationships with superiors willing to aid him.  Unfortunately, he showed a complete disregard when it came to not making enemies.  He rationalizes this away in many ways.  The main ones being he was protecting his men or the mission required it.  But it doesnt change the end result.  Eventually, his protectors retired and he was faced with a phalanx of foes who managed to get him a nice vacation to a Federal prison. <br /> <br />Marcinko has a good down to earth writing style and is fairly open about his errors.  The only thing I think he could have done better would have been to go into more detail  regarding the criminal case against him.  I believe it had something to do with a misappropriation of funds that is not uncommon in the military.  Marcinko is fairly vague about details so we dont know the full story.  I suspect he is quiet on this to avoid further criminal prosecution.  It would have been nice if he waited for statutes of limitations to have run so he could have spoken freely.	2005-08-03
US	50045286	RP7R3O7R9LHKN	0061057134	893664393	Titan (NASA Trilogy, Book 2)	Books	1	5	7	N	N	Zero Star Fodder	When I read the cover of this book, it sounded great.  A suicide mission to Titan to follow up on the  Huygens probe discovery of life on that far away moon.  The first chapter describing the probe's descent and landing was  spectacular.  After that, the story quickly and painfully collapsed. <br /> <br />I did not get far with this tome.  However, I figured out three things.  First, Baxter seems to be quite knowledgeable in the aerospace engineering field and doesnt have the faintest idea how American politics or governmental function.  Finally, the author doesnt know how to create characters. <br /> <br />Mr. Baxter's engineering background could have made this a great book.  Unfortunately, he seems to assume his readers are aerospace engineers!  I found quite a few instances where Baxter refers to items using acronyms and never explains what the acronyms are.  After a few examples of this, I phased out. <br /> <br />The author takes a stab at the American governmental and political system.....and falls flat on his face.  I didnt get that far in the novel so I didnt view the whoppers of mistakes other reviewers cite.  But let me tell you this much.  Even the stauchest of NASA critics dont propose downsizing the outfit and putting it under control of Department of Agriculture!!  Geez, where did that come from?? <br /> <br />Finally, character development sucks.  Again, I didnt get too far.  But I read long enough to get a decent picture of two female astronauts (one Chinese and one American) who were thoroughly obnoxious.  There was also the NASA Chief who seemed to have the personality of a glass of lukewarm water.  The only character I found somewhat compelling was Astronaut Lamb, who seemed to mostly lurk in the backgound and look cool.  I truly wish I could have read further to see them get killed off! <br /> <br />It is truly sad.  Baxter seems to be a uniquely gifted person who picked up what could have been a compelling story line.  The guy just needs to learn skills outside of engineering like writing and political science to pull it off!	2005-06-10
US	50045286	R12O4YCOHR0OFI	0449203794	799767252	Space	Books	2	3	11	N	N	Weak!	I had heard great things about Michener's works.  I also enjoyed watching some of his mini-series' on TV when I was younger (and less experienced).  This was my first try at a Michener novel.  It is probably my last too! <br /> <br />The biggest problem I had with this book is that it takes the term historical fiction WAAAY too far.  I can understand making up fake astronauts as using the guys actually scheduled for the Apollo 18 mission would have hemmed him in too much.  I can even rationalize a fictional US Senator.  There's enough of them that they get lost in the mix.  But carving an entire state out of Oklahoma???  Every time I got to a mention of the state of Fremont, it was like going over a speed bump at 100 miles an hour.....without shock absorbers!  Why was this necessary?   WHY??? <br /> <br />Michener was a Naval officer in the South Pacific during World War II.  The Navy made him a historian because of his education , research skills and ability to take in large amounts of data and present comprehensive and accurate reports.  From reading this this novel, it appears Michener must have thrown those skills to the curb by the time he wrote this lemon.  The main protagonist fights for and wins an appointment to the Naval Academy because he sees this as the best way to get into aviation and space programs.  Thats reasonable.  But what do we see of the academy?  We see this character happily and almost lazily operating a sailboat!  Come on James, you must know that USNA isnt a stroll through the park!!  Ever heard of plebe year??  And heres another thing.  There is a Korean female reporter who is moderately important to the story.  However, she has a Japanese last name.  Sure, there were Koreans who took Japanese names before WW2 ended.  But no self respecting Korean would keep such a name in the late 60s and early 70s!!  This is a somewhat minor detail that I know of only through personal experience.  But it makes me wonder what else he got wrong. <br /> <br />I gave this book two stars because the underlying story is really interesting.  Michener also writes well.  If it wasnt for the fact that he kept slamming me in the face with unnecessary modifications to history and some pretty big factual oversights, I could have enjoyed this book. <br />	2005-06-10
US	50045286	R2W8C33NJ3LOWC	0895261405	647115467	Dereliction of Duty: The Eyewitness Account of How President Bill Clinton Compromised America's Long-Term National Security	Books	3	17	24	N	N	Could Have Been Better	Let me first begin by saying that I am a proud member of the Right Wing Conspiracy.  I believe Clinton was the worst chief executive this nation has ever seen.  I also agree with Patterson's assessments.  That said, many of his assertions dont hold much water with me.<br /><br />First the good part.  As one of Clinton's military aides, LTC Patterson got to see Clinton in action first hand.  During the author's tenure at the White House, he saw Clinton loose control of the nation's nuclear arsenal on many occasions by both failing to keep his aide carrying communication equipment available and by misplacing the launch codes.  Patterson also got to experience Clinton's utter disregard for national security matters.  He documents two instances where the so called president refused to decide on urgent military matters because he was too busy.  What was he doing?  Real vital stuff like playing golf and campaigning!!  Well, one must keep their priorities straight when they beleive Republicans are a greater threat to the nation than Mid East terrorists! Chilling.  Truly chilling.<br /><br />Patterson spends some time pointing out the faults of some of Clinton's activities in the former Yugoslavia.  While I mostly agree with his assessments, I dont see why I (or anyone else) should give them much weight.  Had Patterson been a general grade officer with solid warfighting experience, I would be more impressed with these musings.  But he is not.  Hes a retired cargo jet pilot.  This is certainly a respectable thing to be.  Still, these arent the creditentials I look for in weighing such matters!<br /><br />Then there are some miscellaneous matters that are interesting but to me dont really amount to dereliction.  A prime example of this is Clinton not being the most prompt person.  This impacted itself in Patterson and his fellow aides occasionally waiting hours on end to go on jogging runs.  Yeah, thats somewhat troubling, but hey, he was the president!  Suck it up and do your job colonel!  Another one of these items is Patterson's assessment on the costliness of Clinton's international trips.  Here, Patterson's cargo pilot experience makes him an expert.  Clinton's economic focused trips to other nations were very costly and took up siginificant resources.  The author does a great job in laying this out.  Despite this, I have a hard time begrudging a president using such assets for legitimate purposes. I would have much preferred Clinton paying attention to Bin Laden, but trying to open new economic ties is certainly not a bad thing!<br /><br />This book has some thought provoking information in it.  It also has quite a bit of fodder too.do your job colonel!  Another one of these items is Patterson's assessment on the costliness of Clinton's international trips.  Here, Patterson's cargo pilot experience makes him an expert.  Clinton's economic focused trips to other nations were very costly and took up siginificant resources.  The author does a great job in laying this out.  Despite this, I have a hard time begrudging a president using such assets for legitimate purposes. I would have much preferred Clinton paying attention to Bin Laden, but trying to open new economic ties is certainly not a bad thing! <br /> <br />This book has some thought provoking information in it.  It also has quite a bit of fodder too.	2005-06-07
US	50045286	RACRK54BZGC7I	0449211649	447860766	Down to a Sunless Sea	Books	5	77	82	N	Y	Obscure But A Classic	I first read this book in 1983.  Although it has some quirky faults, I enjoyed it greatly and I have re-read it on many occasions. <br /> <br />In the early 1980s, the United States collapses economically from lack of oil.  As part of its recovery plans, America is sending people out of the country to cut down its population.  This is where Jonah Scott and the crew of Air Britain's Speedbird 626 come in.  Shortly after leaving New York in late 1985 with a load of mostly refugees on board, Scott and company receive a message that all out nuclear war has commenced.  After all regular landing options are extinguished in nuclear fireballs, Scott manages to land at a NATO airbase in the Azores that has only been partially destroyed in a netron bomb attack.  Jonah and company soon discover their refuge is only temporary.  A planet wide cloud of atomic particles is slowly floating down on them.  Their only option is to fly Speedbird 262 to Antarctica where the air is clear! <br /> <br />There are two versions of this story.  I have been lucky enough to read both.  The first Sunless Sea novel I bought has a happy ending.  I recently came across an older printing that has a sad ending.  Strangely enough there is little difference between the versions.  The major difference seems to be an extra two pages at the end of the older book.  Im curious as to what brought about the change.  Havent been able to find out anything.   <br /> <br />Having read the older version also helps explain some of what appeared to be improbable events discussed in the first chapters such as the oil crisis that brings down the USA.  It seems like reasonable speculation given that the book was originally written in the late 70s rather than the early 80s. <br /> <br />This is easily one of the best end of the world novels.  I urge you to get a copy!	2005-04-15
US	50045286	R21BDORP2NLR9A	0727810839	884777688	Test of Fire	Books	2	12	13	N	N	A Great Disappointment	I tend to agree with Dennis Duncan on this book.  It starts off great but then crashes and burns horribly by the end. <br /> <br />Here's the basic story.  A solar flare destroys everything in the Eastern hemisphere.  The rest of civilization goes under when Soviet military leaders assume the flare is a nuke attack and unleash their ICBMs.  A small community survives at a moon base but faces serious survival problems.  The biggest one being that lack of fissionable material forces them to preiodically go back to Earth and forage for reactor rods.  On one foray Daniel Morgan, the unofficial moonbase leader, refuses to come back and hoards up the available fissionables in an attempt to force the moon people to make a permanent connection with Earth.  After 20 or so years, his wife (the official leader) sends her son Alec back with a quasi-military unit to get the rods.....and to get back at dear old dad for walking out on everyone.  <br /> <br />Like I already said, the novel starts out great.  Bova walks us through the destruction of Earth very well and shows us how the moon base people cope.  The Reath/Moon tension is pretty interesting too. This is all very well thought out and plausible.  But once Alec Morgan sets foot on Earth, the story collapses into a bad post apocalypse type thriller. <br /> <br />To make things worse, the author does some bizarre things that really harm the book.  There are three items that particularly annoyed me. <br /> <br />First off is wasting time on one refugee.  Ben Bova put significant resources into developing a New England college professor who survives and cons his way to the moon by convincing moon raiders looking for fuel rods he has the secret to predicting the next solar flare.  Okay, pretty neat.  But what does he do with this guy?  Nothing!  The last we see this guy hes talking with Alec Morgan about fairly irrelevant stuff!  Why did you bother, Ben?? <br /> <br />Then there is Morgan's wife.  Bova presents her as a manipulative and scheming shrew until about 2/3 of the way throught the story where she just disappears.  He tees up a great villaness and then seems to just forget about her.  Not good. <br /> <br />Finally there is Alec Morgan.  He is the closest we get to a character we can sympathize with.  But then the author ruins him.  How?  Well, first off he rapes a medical technician that makes him angry.  Oh yeah, that was really necessary to the plot.  Then he has an incestuous relationship with a girl who is essentially his adopted sister.  I have no idea what the author thought he was doing with this little romance. <br /> <br />That all said I feel compelled to give the book two stars.  First, the beginning chapters are really good.  Also, its pretty simple to read.  My basic opinion is that there are certainly worse novels of this sort.  Unfortunately, there are numerous ones that are much MUCH better!	2005-04-14
US	50045286	RW65G3B45EPHT	0425188469	290767142	Goodnight Saigon	Books	4	3	4	N	N	A Great Story About the End of the Vietnam War	I initially did not want to purchase this book for two reasons.  First, there were numerous books on the last days of the Republic of Vietnam and I thought the author would just plow through the same old stuff.  Also, the title implied it would just be about the Embassy Marines in Saigon.  I was pleasantly surprised!      Charles Henderson's primary focus is on the Marines at the embassy in Saigon and the consulate in Da Nang.  To a lesser extent he looks into final activities in Can Tho and Nha Trang.  However, he gives us more to consider.    The author reveals that both the Communist and Republican Vietnamese were essentially on their last legs.  America was drastically reducing aid to South Vietnam.  But North Vietnam was apparently facing similar problems too!  In a last ditch gambit, North Vietnam begins to attack South Vietnam in late 1974.  If the campaign goes well, they will likely prevail.  If it goes poorly, they will probably never have another chance.    Unlike previous stories of this tragic time, Henderson reveals Communist victory was not a foregone conclusion.....at least not initially.  ARVN had ample supplies in its two northernmost corps to weather a large scale attack.  Unfortunately, South Vietnam's President Nguyen Van Thieu makes the disasterous decision to have I and II Corps fall back and defend key population centers even though these forces were already heavily engaged and would be unable to take most of their supplies with them.  This tactial withdrawl resulted in a route that guaranteed the destruction of South Vietnam's military and Communist victory.     Another plus about this book is that its more than just about the last US Marines in South Vietnam.  Besides the US Marines, we see RVN and NVA generals, Viet Marines, ARVN officers, etc.  Henderson even has room for South Vietnamese artists and an actress to come on the scene!  Very comprehensive.    I was close to giving this novel 5 stars but changed my mind.  One of the best subplots is the epic journey of a South Vietnamese Marine battalion commander who leads his men on a month long journey through enemy lines.  Once he gets his unit back into whats left of South Vietnam, he disappears!  I would really liked to have seen what finally happened to these guys.  Other than that, this is a great book.	2005-04-11
US	50045286	R3D30W15XF7OSI	0671885650	67482250	The TEN THOUSAND	Books	1	5	20	N	N	Dazed and Confused	The End of the Cold War put a real hurt on the Military Techno-Thriller business.  Coyle's \\"The Ten Thousand\\" is a good case in point. <br /> <br />To have a fight, you have to have an antagonist.  Before 1989, that was easy......the Commies!  After the Berlin Wall came down, that became problematic.  Authors handled this with a wide array of options.  In my opinion the best were those that searched for another bad guy like drug trafficers or Terrorists.  I found the worst to be those that esentially went into denial.  You know, the ones that have the Communists take back power and threaten the world again.  Then there are those who dredge up Nazis like Coyle did.  Yawn.  How unoriginal. <br /> <br />I have two other problems with this novel.  First is Nancy Kozak.  Sorry Harold, but you gave her too much of a free ride as one of the first female infantry officers.  In my eyes, her presense in this story makes as much sense as Pee Wee Herman being the NATO commander.  Then there is the light infantry thing.  Coyle's military experience primarily comes from serving in mechanized units and he can be unbelievably hostile to light infantry/airborne forces.  Strangely, light units often play key roles in Coyle's novels.  This one is no exception.  Despite this, he often blasts these units (especially paratroopers) as being an anachronism.   <br /> <br />If you just like military novels you may enjoy this one.  The combat scenes are decent and pretty accurate.  But if you cant stomach poorly considered backdrops stay away from this one.	2005-03-16
US	50045286	R3JAUZUW9ZKBS	0842332359	280076502	Glorious Appearing: The End of Days (Left Behind #12)	Books	3	2	5	N	N	Weak Ending to a Great Series	I got into this series real late. While I found flaws, they were mostly technical. Overall, I found the series excellent. However, I was not as impressed with this final installment.    There were two things I liked about the series. First, the authors decided to take the Bible references to the end of the world literally. So if Revelation says the Earth gets hit by a huge block of wood from space......thats what happens! Now if the Bible were to say the Earth would be hit by an object that was \\"like\\" a block of wood, Jenkins and LeHaye would take liberties. The other thing I liked was the contemporary/pop culture format. The characters and most settings are recognizable and all parties talk in our vernacular. This helped to make the story line understandable.    Jenkins and LeHaye threw these conventions out the window here. There is a Bible reference about Christ striking down bad guys with a sword that comes out of his mouth. For years, I awaited anxiously to see how the authors would handle this. They handled it by cheating! Christ in this final installment doesnt have a sword in his mouth. Instead, he slays evil doers with words. While the main characters do speak in a manner we are familiar with, Christ and his cohorts usually do not. While they occasionally have normal conversations with the main characters, they often just recite Bible quotes......with the wrong tense!    Another disappointment for me was matters regarding the Villans Viv Ivins and Suhail Akhbar.  The authors build these two up into very reprehensible people.  I just couldnt wait to see justice meted out on them.  How do they end?  The Anti-Christ gets mad at them and tells some flunkies to do away with them somewhere off stage!  Come on guys, I expected better.    If youve read the other 11 installments in the series, by all means read this one. It will close out the story well for you. But if you planned on \\"cutting to the chase\\" by reading this final chapter, you'll probably be disappointed.	2005-03-16
US	50045286	R2L34XGPDVW03Y	0765344602	710744278	They Are Soldiers	Books	3	2	5	N	N	Not Bad!	I bought this book with serious reservations.  While I believe \\"Team Yankee\\" is a classic and \\"Sword Point\\" is excellent, I havent thought much of his later works.  I just found them too unrealistic.  I was pleasantly surprised with this one.     This novel continues the saga of Scott Dixon....sort of.  Coyle's hero of past stories is the senior Army operations officer.  He must quickly cobble together a task force to perform peacekeeping duties in Israel where Palestinian terrorists have begun conducting biological warfare.  Only one problem, there are no active units available!  The solution is simple, send a National Guard outfit leavened with some active component leaders and dump them into the quagmire of all quagmires!  Oh, Dixon's son Nathan is one of the Regulars sent to this operation.    Much of what I disliked in earlier Coyle novels is gone.  Scott Dixon takes up a supporting role and his Medal of Honor is never mentioned.  The whole women in combat units lash up is gone too.  Coyle also seems to have dropped his habit of making up completely fictional Army units.......sort of.  I always found this annoying about Coyle.  The Guard Unit sent to the Holy Land doesnt currently exist, but at least it used to!    I found the story itself compelling from a personal standpoint.  I used to serve in the same National Guard division which is the focus of this story.  While in the regular army, I had contact with Guard units on occasion.  Coyle does an excellent job explaining the tensions between active and reserve component soldiers and the underlying reasons.  He also accurately reveals the weaknesses and ultimate strengths of the National Guard and its individual members.    Now the not so good stuff.  As previous reviewers mentioned, there are waaay too many spelling and sentence structure errors.  Also, Coyle is not a master of subtlety.  About 50 pages into the story, you pretty much know whats going to happen by the end.  If this really annoys you, you might want to pass up this one.    Im happy to see Harold Coyle has come out of the politically correct wilderness and has scrapped some of the implausibilities generated in his earlier works.  Now all he has to do is get a decent editor.........	2005-03-14
US	50045286	R1G6ZSRD2VKBRE	0451527631	315718149	Looking Backward (Signet Classics)	Books	3	6	17	N	N	What Might Have Been	My first experience with this book was in college.  As my professor lectured us to the smallest detail and never asked questions, I didnt bother reading it.  My prof made this out to be a shining blueprint of how we should live. Finally broke down and read it myself recently.  Im glad my teacher didnt have his way!<br /><br />Julian West is a well to do Bostonite who goes into a deep trance induced sleep in 1887 and wakes up in the year 2000.  Dr. Leete, the man who revived him, and his family become Mr. West's host and guide.  Shortly after West went to bed, the United States government took over the entire enconomy and brought Heaven on Earth.<br /><br />I really cant bring myself to be to harsh to Mr. Bellamy's socialist leanings.  He did write this novel a full 30 years before the first workers' paradise started terrorizing its citizens and neighbors.  Actually, Mr. Bellamy should be commended.  He does a great job at picking out the major woes of his time and gives a brief but surprisingly comprehensive look at one of the two logical alternate solutions we could have taken.  Of course we took the alternate route.  That being to legally discourage monopolies and set up a minimal social safety net while still allowing for private property ownership and economic competition.  Thank God we went this way!<br /><br />\\"Looking Backward\\" also gives us an interesting look into the socialist mind.  Nationalizing the economy and abolishing private property ownership solves every woe in this alternate universe from starvation to diaper rash.  You also often see the near religious ferver of a dyed in the wool socialist in West's conversations with Dr. Leete which often go something like this:<br /><br />West:  Goodness, this is some fine strawberry jam!<br /><br />Leete:  Well of course it is!  Our jam makers are fully educated with the equivalent of a bachelor's degree from your awful, evil and backward times.  What do you expect?<br /><br />As others have noted, this society is completely unworkable.  While reading this book, I tried to figure out how I would operate in Bellamy's world.  Personally, I would get a low stress job and work just enough to get by.  Why do more?  You get paid the exact same amount as everyone else and can live in a mansion if you want!  I know what Bellamy would say.  Im just a cretin from an unenlightened alternate universe.  Everyone in his world strives for their best out of their undying love for their fellow man.  Yeah, whatever.  Heres another gem I note nobody has picked up on.  North America, Europe and Australia subscribe to this socialist model but not the rest of the world.  Its safe to assume they follow Bellamy's US model of having no armed forces or legal power to wage war.  So whats to stop nations not on this little love fest from moving in and taking over?  Hmmmmmmmmm.<br /><br />This is an enjoyable and enlightening book.  I dont endorse any theory Bellamy offers in it, but its still a good read.s book, I tried to figure out how I would operate in Bellamy's world.  Personally, I would get a low stress job and work just enough to get by.  Why do more?  You get paid the exact same amount as everyone else and can live in a mansion if you want!  I know what Bellamy would say.  Im just a cretin from an unenlightened alternate universe.  Everyone in his world strives for their best out of their undying love for their fellow man.  Yeah, whatever.  Heres another gem I note nobody has picked up on.  North America, Europe and Australia subscribe to this socialist model but not the rest of the world.  Its safe to assume they follow Bellamy's US model of having no armed forces or legal power to wage war.  So whats to stop nations not on this little love fest from moving in and taking over?  Hmmmmmmmmm.    This is an enjoyable and enlightening book.  I dont endorse any theory Bellamy offers in it, but its still a good read.	2005-03-04
US	50045286	R1W6WWL3N4EVB	0345384687	858634254	The Guns of the South	Books	3	6	7	N	N	An Interesting Story	I found this to be a fun book to read.  In alternate history-speak, General Lee has a major Alien Space Bat (a highly improbable and/or illogical occurance) attack.  While minding his business commanding the Army of Northern Virginia, a strange and shady fellow from a strange and shady organization comes to him with an offer he cant refuse.  The stranger has crates and crates of automatic weapons (our modern day AK47) that will practically give just one of his regiments enough firepower to hold its ground against an entire Union army.  Lee takes up this offer and the results are predictable.  The South wins.  Then things get curiouser.  The stranger and his cohorts wind up being White Supremicists from a 21st Century South Africa trying to change time.  They are not happy with the Confederacy's plans.  Read the book for the rest of the story.    Normally, I dont like alternate history books that are so implausible.  It seems like cheating to me.  Also, such AH stories are not particularly well written.  This one seems to be an exception.  Harry Turtledove has an excellent grasp of the civil war era military forces and it shines through here.  He also has a pretty decent idea of the political forces competing with each other in this time frame.  These facts managed to get me through a story I normally wouldnt even have picked off a book shelf!    Earlier critics dislike this story because the Confederacy emancipates its slaves.  They think there is no basis for this.  I strongly disagree.  Most Southerners (even slave holders) were uncomfortable with the practice.  Just look at the prominent Southerners like Washington and Jefferson who freed their slaves at death.  Heck, if I remember right Lee himself emancipated slaves he inherited on the death of his wife's father!  More important is the fact that slavery was a dying institution in the South given the industrialization of the time.  I will go this far.  I think Turtledove rushes the issue.  I dont think slavery would be ended in a victorious South within a decade or so of independence.  Slavery might have been in its death throes, but it wasnt that far along!  Still, I think the grandual emancipation the author shows us is reasonable if a bit premature.    This is a decent story.  One word of caution from military afficianados.  The second half of this novel focuses on political/societal issues and can be boring if you dont like that stuff.  If you want action from beginning to end you may be disappointed.	2005-03-02
US	50045286	R3L4IMA4DLFI8X	0441783589	242880671	Starship Troopers	Books	5	3	6	N	N	A Classic....But Barely	Here is the grandaddy of military scifi.  On a lark, Johnny Rico enters military service upon graduating from high school.  After going through a brutal and exacting basic training course, he becomes a Mobile Infantryman and is thrown into the fray of an interstellar war.  The enemy is an intelligent and tenacious arachnid species known as \\"The Bugs\\".<br /><br />When you think about it, this book could easily have been a flop.  A large portion of the novel takes place in classrooms and in the inner thoughts of Rico.  Despite this, Heinlein manages to keep a quick pace.  He also gives us much to mull over.  Some issues he presents include who should be in charge of society, should the army's role be given to Naval forces,are military drafts good, and how should we choose military officers.  There is much food for thought here.<br /><br />In my opinion though, there are some faults that nearly make me want to take away a star.  The author doesnt really explain why his \\"veteranocracy\\" (only military veterans can vote or hold office) is the perfect form of governance for mankind.  After exploring the issue in some depth, Heinlein finally just posits its best because it works.  Thats a pretty big leap considering the concept has never really been tried yet!  I also have issues with the author's future military structure.  Rico's army has almost no logisticians or people allocated to staff work.  All officers are combat leaders who take on support/staff work as a secondary role.  So a Divisional supply officer will actually command a combat force.  I cant see how this could work.  Imagine this supply officer trying to sort out a munition distribution problem when he is knee deep in a combat action and with almost no ordnance techs to assist!  This future army is certainly highly automated (they move about in powerful and computerized armored suits) and this may allow for such a structure.  Still, I am skeptical.  Finally, there is officer selection.  One cant be a Mobile Infantry officer without first experiencing combat.  While this is a laudable hurdle, I think its impractical.  The author hints that there had been no major combat actions for some time before Johnny is sent out to fight the Bugs.  Seems to me, this army runs the risk of running out of qualified officer candidates!  Imagine if the old USSR had this as a requirement to be an officer.  Where would they find combat vets in say 1972 when the last time the Red Army was in the field was 1945?<br /><br />I reviewed the movie a few months ago and sort of panned it for making this future society into something Mussolini (or maybe Hitler even) could have been proud of.  Some of the other reviewers reinforce this too.  Its really not there. The general populace in the novel seem to have the basic civil liberties we do (except voting rights).  On a less touchy point, the book develops an interesting (if minor) sub issue regarding the tensions between Rico and his father.  In the movie, Verhoeven kills off Rico Sr in the beginning.  Heinlein lets him live and meet up with his son towards the end of the book.  I fully understand movie directors have time constraints that force them to shave out such things.  Still, I would liked to have seen this sub-plot survive.<br /><br />This is an excellent story.  There are some minor blemishes but in the end its a novel that has stood the test of time.ile Infantry officer without first experiencing combat.  While this is a laudable hurdle, I think its impractical.  The author hints that there had been no major combat actions for some time before Johnny is sent out to fight the Bugs.  Seems to me, this army runs the risk of running out of qualified officer candidates!  Imagine if the old USSR had this as a requirement to be an officer.  Where would they find combat vets in say 1972 when the last time the Red Army was in the field was 1945? <br /> <br />I reviewed the movie a few months ago and sort of panned it for making this future society into something Mussolini (or maybe Hitler even) could have been proud of.  Some of the other reviewers reinforce this too.  Its really not there. The general populace in the novel seem to have the basic civil liberties we do (except voting rights).  On a less touchy point, the book develops an interesting (if minor) sub issue regarding the tensions between Rico and his father.  In the movie, Verhoeven kills off Rico Sr in the beginning.  Heinlein lets him live and meet up with his son towards the end of the book.  I fully understand movie directors have time constraints that force them to shave out such things.  Still, I would liked to have seen this sub-plot survive. <br /> <br />This is an excellent story.  There are some minor blemishes but in the end its a novel that has stood the test of time.	2005-03-01
US	50045286	R1ZAWO1K1JBSTE	0380731592	247127888	Balance of Power: A Novel	Books	5	6	9	N	N	Best Law review Article Ever!	Ever read a law review article? Pretty dry and boring stuff. But here, James Huston takes what could be a stuffy topic and wraps it around an action/political thriller story. The result is wonderful.  <br /> <br />An American freighter is hijacked by terrorists who proceed to execute the crew members and take the captain hostage. President Manchester(a suspected pacifist) chooses to do nothing about it. As one could imagine, many are aghast at this, including the President's political nemesis, Speaker of the House Stanbridge. It appears there is little hope until Jim Dillon, a lawyer on Stanbridge's staff, discovers a dormant power in the US Constitution known as The Letter of Marque and Reprisal that gives Congress the power to direct military (or at least Naval) forces into action.  <br /> <br />Things get complicated after this. After Congress passes the Letter, the President initiates legal action. Also, its uncertain whether the Admiral commanding the Task Force will honor the Letter. For those and more questions, I direct you to read the book!  <br /> <br />The legal analysis is overall very good. Some critics note the Letter of Marque and Rerisal provision is just another enhancement to the President's war making capability. This is not correct. There is nothing in the Constitution directly tying the Executive to this power. Traditionally, Presidents did sign these Letters but Huston shows that tradition does not trump the Consitution. He deals crippling blows to other arguments against the Letter too.  <br /> <br />The action is also excellent. We get to see the full power of a carrier task force unfold before our eyes. Everything from Special Ops and Marine assaults to air attacks. Huston's naval background only enhances this aspect of the novel.  <br /> <br />An excellent work. For the thinking person who enjoys red hot action, you could do worse! <br /> <br />	2005-03-01
US	50045286	R1XK3EAU1O36V0	0553580078	119744907	The Years of Rice and Salt	Books	4	3	5	N	N	Where Have All the Europeans Gone?	Here is an excellent alternate history that delves into a world where European civilization is destroyed by the Plague.  It spans the time period from the Middle Ages to modern times. <br /> <br />This world is all in all pretty plausible.  The Islamic world essentially fills the vaccuum left by the destruction of Europe and competes with China, India, and to a lesser extent those we call American Indians.  To tie events together over such a long time, Robinson uses an interesting tool.  He assumes reincarnation exists and has a group of souls come back to Earth over time as various key players.  While this mechanism is not perfect, it is more often than not useful in binding together what a somewhat unrelated short stories. <br /> <br />That all said, I agree with Michael Clawson's critique.  My understanding is that the loss of population from the Plague was a key spark in causing the social and technological advances in Europe.  Mr. Robinson has this alternate world advance at nearly the same pace technologically and only moderately slower socially.  Doesnt make a whole lot of sense to me.  Where is the incentive for China to make more efficient tools when theres a huge surplus of people?  And why would India become a relatively free society when the status quo hasnt been changed much?  I think there could be decent explanations for this.  Unfortunately, Robinson doesnt really delve into them much. <br /> <br />One of the nice things about alternate history is that you can see the importance of a given factor if it is removed.  This book doesnt take advantage of that very well.  This alternate world seems to follow our timeline too closely.  There are major technological advances in the Middle Ages in Afghanistan simmilar to those in our Europe of the same time.  The Chinese and Arabs colonize the Americas at about the same time period as Europe did in our world.  There is an epic Moslem/China war set at about the time of our World War I.  It even has trench warfare!  So Mr. Robinson seems to be telling us (I believe unintentionally) that Europe doesnt really matter!  Im not buying that.  Not at all. <br /> <br />One final (and minor) critique.  The author hints at there having been a residual European culture.  I think it would have been helpful if Robinson threw his reincarnating characters into Plague ridden Europe.  Perhaps they could have been in a nomadic grouping in France searching for safety or a small village in Northern Scotland that managed to survive.  As best as I can tell the only Europeans Robinson identifies are what appears to be a caveman in Hungary in the very beginning and references to a \\"nature preserve\\" on an English island in the 20th Century.  Showing what happened in Europe could have added depth to this story.  Not a big problem though.  I just would have like to have seen it. <br /> <br />This is pretty good alternate history.  Not good enough that I would likely reread the book.  But I'll certainly come back and skim certain portions!	2005-02-02
US	50045286	R304Z9QKB4ZWVZ	1592285910	925646448	Separated at Birth: How North Korea Became the Evil Twin	Books	3	10	13	N	N	Preaching to the Choir	This is not a bad book.  However, it could be better. <br /> <br />Mr. Cucullu attempts to show us how North and South Korea have developed since the end of the Korean War and looks a little into possible futures.  He does an excellent job in telling the story of South Korea's transformation from an authoritarian/Third World nation into a representative democrary with a well developed economy. The good colonel peppers the standard historical run down with personal experiences while serving many years in Korea with the US Army.  Making you actually feel the transformation of the Republic of Korea into a modern society is a real treat.   <br /> <br />The author doesnt do a very good job explaining North Korea. In fact, his discussions of the DPRK are really just tirades that boil down to the fact that living in North Korea is unpleasant and the Kim regime sucks.  Hey, Im on board with this.  But I would like to have seen more analysis.  Also, he makes a few of what I call \\"wild eyed\\" statements.  First, he posits that North Korea killed prisoners in South Korean army uniforms in June 1950 to produce evidence to justify the Korean War.  This is plausible, but where is the evidence?  Also, he claims Kim Jong Il has taken family members of senior DPRK officials hostage to keep them in line.  Again, I wouldnt be at all surprised if this were true.  That said, Id like to see some proof. <br /> <br />One final comment.  The Publishers Weekly review notes Cucullu is critical of revisionist historians but doesnt consider their arguments.  The arguments of the likes of Bruce Cummings are not really worth commenting on as they have been utterly and completely refuted.  Its pretty safe to assume North Korean society is dysfunctional and the Kims are horrible leaders.	2005-01-24
US	50045286	RFY7BFGWEI8MZ	0060510862	223407615	Forever War, The	Books	3	7	12	N	N	Sullen Draftees In Space!	There is much good in this book.  Unfortunately, the good is seriously harmed by some of the author's bizarre viewpoints. <br /> <br />In the 1970s, Joe Haldeman was a pretty angry guy.  In the late 60s he was forced into military service after completing a physics degree.  The military leadership trained him to be a combat engineer and sent him to Vietnam where he was eventually wounded.  He decided to get back at the Military Industrial Complex by writing this novel. <br /> <br />Well, thats a good background for the bad parts.  Haldeman takes the Vietnam War fact patterns as he sees them and places them on a future space war.  The main character, William Mandella, seems to represent Haldeman.  While studying physics in college, he is drafted after aliens known as Taurans attack Earth colonists.  He goes through a training program he believes to be inappropriate.  Its always either too harsh or not harsh enough.  Haldeman has similar complaints about his own training but has admitted it helped keep him alive.  So whats the problem, Joe?  All military leaders placed above Mandella are portrayed as barbarians or cowards.  Then there is the enemy (or should I say \\"enemy\\"?).  The Vietnamese Communists.......I mean the Taurans are a highly advanced clone civilization.  They are so peace loving, they are unable to fight back during the first human raid which degenerates into a futuristic My Lai.  The war goes on for about 1000 years until the Americans.....oooops! I mean humans evolve and begin to understand the moral superiority of the enemy.  From reading more recent discourse from the author, he still holds this same world view.  I think the author could do with a little education on this subject.  Or should I say re-education?  In any case, Im shaving off two stars for sympathizing with the bad guys when they dont deserve it. <br /> <br />Once you get past Haldeman's political mindset, there are many great aspects to this story.  The author does not shy away from relativity issues.  Each battle lasts at least 27 years and human society becomes stranger and stranger each time Mandella comes back from campaigning.  Haldeman's characterizations of these future human societies are compelling and detailed.   The combat sequences are also intriguing and have a realtistic feel (once one gets beyond massacres).  The main character, like the author, is seriously wounded at one point.  The medical healing process Haldeman describes is also great. <br /> <br />I normally eviscerate books where the author promulgates similar politcal viewpoints.  In my humble opinion, the apolitical aspects of this story go a long way in rehabilitating it. <br />	2005-01-19
US	50045286	R3O4Q6IMJPWQF4	0312322216	938315130	Under the Loving Care of the Fatherly Leader: North Korea and the Kim Dynasty	Books	5	137	145	N	Y	Essential to Understanding the DPRK	I really loved this book.  Bradley Martin is a reporter who has extensively travelled in North Korea and has met many of the Kim regimes ruling caste members.  He paints an intriguing portrait of North Korea.   <br /> <br />There are many chapters, but they basically break into three categories.  These deal with the rise of the Kim regime, life in North Korea, and the future of North Korea.  There is certainly overlap, but these are the primary categories. <br /> <br />The most difficult chapters are certainly those dealing with the rise to power of Kim Il Sung and Kim Jong Il.  I say this because, as Martin freely admits,  there are very complicated mythologies surrounding these characters.  Mr. Martin goes on the assumption that there is a nugget of truth in all myths and tries very hard to find them.  As an example, there is a myth that Kim Il Sung was the most important anti-Japanese guerilla leader who nearly single handedly ejected Japanese forces from Korea.  After detailed and exhaustive research, the author shows that Kim was a moderately important guerilla leader who threw his lot in with the Soviet Red Army after being defeated by Japanese forces.  In this way, Mr. Martin develops what could be the most accurate picture we have of the Kims' early days.  If he is found to ever be wrong, it wont be for not trying hard. <br /> <br />The next set of chapters revolve around everyday life in the DPRK.  He gets his information partially through his trips there, but more importantly through defector testimony.  Needless to say, life in the Workers'Paradise sucks.  There is little food (unless you are a high level party member) and there is a constant risk you will offend someone and wind up in a prison camp.  Not much we dont already know, but Martin reveals much that is new.  For example, the citizenry is completely loyal despite mismanagement and abuse.  Even defectors cant bring themselves to criticize the Kims!  And there is much much more. <br /> <br />Finally, Martin looks to the future.  He shows us North Korea's first faltering steps to become connected with the world economy.  He also delves into who may replace Kim Jong Il in the future.  I wasnt too convinced with his argument that the West should negotiate on WMD issues, but he makes the argument pretty well. <br /> <br />One final note.  The best part of this book is Martin's credibility.  He seems to have no axes to grind.  He has no problem revealing the bad aspects of the DPRK or the good.  Mr. Martin comes across as a straight shooter.  This could be what is most important in making this such a wonderful book.	2005-01-19
US	50045286	R2QK9YE6DA0YOW	0060931396	313139072	Alas, Babylon (Perennial Classics)	Books	5	22	24	N	N	A Mature Look At Nuclear War	If you came to this book looking for Mad Max, dont bother. If you want to reinforce your concept that life on Earth will end with the explosion of one nuke, go elsewhere.  But if youre interested in how the collapse of society would impact everyday people, this novel is for you. <br /> <br />Pat Frank takes a fairly reasoned look at the affects of a nuclear war on small town America in the early to mid 1960s.  To put it in a nutshell, everone in a small Florida town goes stir crazy for a few days after the bombs drop, looks around and sees they may survive if they act normal and build a new society and economy.  How they get from point A to point B is the real joy of this book. <br /> <br />The one legitimate flaw with this tome that others have pointed out is it is quite dated, especially when considering race relations.  Also, gender issues are dealt with from an angle we would not be used to today.  Most (but not all) of the black characters are somewhat ignorant of the larger world.  The female characters are emotional and are prepared to collapse into crying fits over the smallest of quandaries.  That said, Pat Frank does present these characters sympathetically and allows them to shine.  In ways, this quirk enhances the book as the author's take on these matters is largely appropriate to the time frame.  <br /> <br />The next major point of criticism is that the book doesnt accurately reflect the truth about nuclear war as there are survivors.  When considering this issue, one must remember the time frame of the story.  The Soviets didnt have that many nukes in this time period and had very little capability of dropping them on America.  If anything, Frank goes beyond what would be likely. <br /> <br />Finally Ive noted lots of the poor ratings given to this book came from people who were forced to read it in grade school. This is certainly understandable.  I would be inclined to give low ratings to books stuffed down my throat too!   Still, I urge prospectivebuyers to take these critiques with a grain of salt.	2004-12-23
US	50045286	R24PHKF0FBG684	0312058365	583308895	The Coming War With Japan	Books	4	16	24	N	N	Wonderful Analysis but Strange Conclusion	Heres an interesting book that has been somewhat discredited over time.  Still, the analysis is excellent and worth considering. <br /> <br />The basic theme is that Japan and the United States could become opponents again with the end of the Cold War.  The titanic battle against communism required Japan and the United States to come to an understanding.  Basically, Japan was to manufacture goods, allow the US basing privileges and provide some defensive capability by patrolling the airspace and ocean immediately surrounding Japan.  In return, the Unites States would guarantee Japan access to natural resources and provide for Japan's military defense.  With the Cold War over, this arrangement has become economically unsound for the US to continue.  A new political arrangement must be developed. <br /> <br />The authors show how Japan must have access to material resources from Asia and the Middle East to continue as a strong nation.  They also reveal that Japan could probably aquire this access on its own through new alliances (especially with India) and by rebuilding its military.  This would put Japan in conflict with the US since America needs control of the Western Pacific to feel stable. <br /> <br />The analysis leading up to the conclusion is inspiring.  Friedman and Lebard boil down Japanese and US strategic interests and show how these needs are (or could be) met.  They also show us how Japan could quickly rebuild its military forces. <br /> <br />As a prior post reveals, the conclusion is less than stellar in some aspects.  They think Japan should ally itself with North Korea.  Fat chance of that even before the Kim Dynasty started lobbing nuke capable missiles in Japan's direction!  Another point that seems strange is the idea they put forward of placing a US armored division in South Korea.  Why?  The terrain just isnt right for large tank units. <br /> <br />The conflict the authors envision has not occurred for many reasons.  As I noted above, they didnt factor in North Korea very well.  Also, they didnt forsee Tokyo's economic bust.  Even so, you can see some of the elements they discussed in motion today.  A good example is the growing pressure in Japan to remove the Marines from Okinawa.  This wouldnt have happened during the Cold War.   <br /> <br />The authors missed some critical points in their analysis.  Still, they did seem to capture many of the post-Cold War pressures we see today in Northeast Asia.	2004-12-16
US	50045286	R275V7H475TBZS	0929398904	623176864	Death Is Lighter than a Feather	Books	5	5	5	N	Y	How Alternate History Should Be Written!	What if the Atomic Bombs were not ready in 1945?  The simple answer is Operation Downfall.  This novel is about this epic battle that never was. <br /> <br />I wont belabor what has already been said.  The writing is excellent.  The weaving of grand strategy and the fate of individual Americans and Japanese is flawless.  The analysis is solid.  Enough said. <br /> <br />Two things I really like about this book that people havent really touched on are the use of characters in an alternate history novel and the authors' angle on the invasion v. A-Bomb debate. <br /> <br />The characters in most AH stories I have read have the dimensions of my grade school stick figure drawings.  Theyre basically just there to make the move that would change history the way the author desires.  Westheimer's characters are very deep and thought provoking.  You become intrigued by them and want to know more and more. <br /> <br />There are a few books on the market that discuss potential invasions of Japan.  Those that are not hyper technical treatises tend to be critiques of Truman's decision to nuke Japan.  The normal theme is that US conspired to overplay the costs of invading Japan as an excuse to use atomic weapons.  Mr. Westheimer does make a compelling case for the invasion to be relatively low cost (once the main defenses are breached there's little left but militia units made up of old men and schoolgirls armed with knives and pitchforks).  However, he stays away from the conspiracy issue.  This enhances the book by keeping the focus on the invasion (and people caught up in it). <br /> <br />I strongly urge Alternate History fans to read this novel.  It is by far the best AH book Ive come across.   <br />	2004-12-15
US	50045286	R1VNYDACAC00EP	0451165667	399084864	Fatal Vision	Books	5	5	10	N	N	Great For Law Students!!!	I wont delve too much into the book much as so many reviewers have dealt with that quite well.  Also, Im not going to discuss MacDonald's guilt or innocence much.  Lets just say I find the book well written and believe MacDonald is guilty. <br /> <br />Now that thats done, let me give you an interesting angle to the novel.  I first picked up the book when I was in the Army.  I enjoyed the beginning up to MacDonald leaving the Army and the final chapters after he was found guilty.  The middle portion was not quite to my liking then. <br /> <br />Fast forward a few years later and Im in law school taking the required evidence course.  This class can be a bit dry and complicated.  While delving into the minutia of how courts pick what evidence can be considered, I pick up Fatal Vision again.  Wonder of wonders, that middle part I didnt like is chock full of evidence issues!  Now while Im sure some will argue the Judge in this case incorrectly used the evidence rules, the analysis used in such matters is there and its applied to a truly interesting subject.  Thanks Joe, you helped me ace Evidence!  For that Im truly in your debt.	2004-12-10
US	50045286	R2UVX2RR67VIQD	0345256220	800247144	Giai Phong	Books	2	1	2	N	N	A Biased Journalist's View of the Fall of Saigon	At the very beginning of this book, Tiziano Terzani sets the record straight.  He unashamedly favors the Vietnamese Communists.  By doing this, he rates an extra star for not putting me through the need to show his bias.    Mr. Terzani was an Italian journalist at the time the Vietnam War came to its sad end.  The primary focus is the North Vietnamese attack (or as he calls it \\"liberation\\") on the capital city of Saigon where he was situated.  Terzani seems to be an honest man and I have little doubt the events noted in this story were those that he saw.  But the reader must remember he saw just a tiny piece of the 1975 invasion.    It would be nice if what he portrayed here was accurate.  Unfortunately, we now know much about the North Vietnamese Anschluss.  Terzani says there was no bloodbath because he didnt see any evidence of such.  Well of course he didnt!  Didnt he think it likely his handlers would keep him away from such activities?  Of course it now common knowledge that the Viet Communists summarily executed multitudes of people after their victory and sent thousands more into gulags.  Terzani also argues the South Vietnamese wanted to be \\"liberated\\" because he saw hardly any combat taking place in Saigon.  Of course its common knowledge that RVN forces conducted their fight outside the city and there was little left to fight with once the tanks rolled into Saigon proper.    This book is utterly and completely refuted today.  Still, it is an interesting look at an interesting time.  I found this book in a community college library and suspected it would be out of print.  My Amazon search hints that its probably been reprinted fairly recently under different names.  I wonder if Mr. Terzani added anything new to these reprints in light of what we know now..........	2004-12-07
US	50045286	R2XLVPQENE32DB	0743246136	46928538	Steel My Soldiers' Hearts: The Hopeless to Hardcore Transformation of U.S. Army, 4th Battalion, 39th Infantry, Vietnam	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Surprisingly Good	When I first saw this book, I thought to myself, \\"Uh oh.  Hacks trying to make a quick buck by re-writing a chapter from his classic \\"About Face\\"!\\".  Perhaps he was was doing just that, but he created a gem anyhow! <br /> <br />For those that dont know, David Hackworth made a name for himself in the Vietnam War by figuring out a cost effective way of fighting the enemy that could have lead to US victory.  Unfortunately, nobody would listen to him.  This book focuses on Hack's third tour in Vietnam when he commanded a down and out infantry battalion in the Mekong Delta.  After instilling some discipline in this pack of sullen draftees, he turned them into a winning combat team.  He also rewrote their tactics.  Instead of headlong and pointless search and destroy missions, Hack sat back and watched the battlefield and waited for the Communist enemy to trip up.  When that happened, he poured every resource available into them and utterly crushed some of the best Viet Cong units in existence.  When he turned over command, his unit racked up a 100 to 1 or so kill ratio.  A ratio the enemy could not take. <br /> <br />In this book, Hackworth shows how he did this.  He also reveals significant obstacles he had to overcome.  Besides inheriting a low quality unit, he had to deal with idiot superiors (in particular the Division commander GEN Ewell and Deputy Commander COL Ira Hunt).  Reading how he got over these problems is a real treat. <br /> <br />I believe this book is best suited for the historian wanting to better understand the Vietnam War.  It is less useful for the aspiring junior military leader.  I say this because much of what COL Hackworth did to succeed went directly against the wishes of his superiors and occasionally against military regulations.   Hack could get away with this as he was rising star in the Army.  The average leader trying to do much of what he did would wind up getting cashiered. <br /> <br />I shaved off one star for filler.  There are two chapters in this book dealing with the battalion medics and his soldiers' sexual proclivities.  While both chapters are very interesting, they dont fit into the big picture all that well.  Other than this, the book is a keeper.	2004-12-06
US	50045286	R2M3D0EYWCKNJQ	0671676695	625705674	Red Army	Books	4	3	6	N	N	Awesome Subject, Implausible Ending	When I first got this book in the early 90s, I was an Army ROTC cadet.  I had serious reservations about the book then.  Not because I thought it was a bad book.  No.  It seemed decent enough.  It was the fact the Bad Guys win!  Just couldnt handle it.  I eventually got over my prejudices and read it through.  Glad I did as its a great story.<br /><br />Peters gives us a picture of the Soviet Army much different than the mindless horde of barbarians we are used to.  He humanizes them.  We see an Army filled with competent leaders and brave soldiers who are not necessarily inclined to spout off Marxist rhetoric.  We also see incompetants and cowards too.  I actually found myself sympathizing with the Soviet soldiers!  Peters also reveals that Soviet fighting doctrine may not have been so wrong.  Just different.  With Peters' military intelligence background, his portrayals carry lots of weight.<br /><br />While I now dont mind the author writing an outcome where the Red Army prevails, I dont necessarily agree with how he gets there.  The Soviet attack on NATO is primarily focused on attacking Northern West Germany defended by Dutch, Belgian and British forces Peters believe to be weak.  Ultimately the victory comes from psychological warfare.  In particular, the USSR releases a tape showing what is supposed to be a West German city (its really an accurate make up of one) utterly destroyed that frightens the West German government into a cease fire.  Also, they send paratroopers into the UK/Dutch/Belgian zones to commit atrocities which causes these NATO forces to expend time in mop up operations.  Given the German/Russian historical record, I dont think this is enough to get the Germans to sue for peace and the Dutch, Belgian and UK military are certainly smart enough to not fall for the paratroop diversion.<br /><br />Despite this, Peters makes a compelling case for the fighting prowess of the Red Army.  Bravo!	2004-12-04
US	50045286	R92084OJ0U8OK	0679416609	165825489	Honor Bound: A Gay American Fights for the Right to Serve His Country	Books	5	2	5	N	N	A Good Case For the Gay Ban	Joseph Steffan gives us an interesting account of the military in general and the US Naval Academy in particular in the late 80s and early 90s.  Mr. Steffan was selected for entry in the academy and flourished, reaching high leadership positions and gaining numerous honors.  The first half or so reads much like the standard military academy novel.  But something happens along the way.  The author discovers he is a homosexual.  Understanding his sexual orientation would end his career he tries to keep this quiet, telling only a handful of friends.  Unfortunately, one of these friends outs him to authorities.  At this point Steffan shines and the Academy tarnishes itself by being completely inflexible.  As the investigation reaches its climax, a senior naval officer at the academy asks Mr. Steffan if he is gay mere weeks before he is to graduate.  Feeling bound by the Academy's Honor Code, he tells the truth.  Before you can say \\"youre out\\", Mr. Steffan is......well....out!    Steffan's treatment by the Academy leadership is truly sad.  Here's a guy at the top of his class who honestly tells the powers that be he's unqualified to serve in the military.  Instead of letting him leave with some dignity, the senior leadership changes his vital leadership grade from A to F, strips him of all midshipman rank and throws him into the street.  Given his accomplishments and the fact he was weeks from completing coursework, he should have been allowed to graduate.  I know service academies do allow students to graduate when they have become unfit to serve close to graduation time.  They should have made an exception for this fine gentlemen.    Thats not to say I think he makes the case he should have been commissioned.  I do not.  His arguments for this fall flat.  His main argument is that hes constrained by the same outmoded rules that used to keep out blacks and women.  He doesnt tell the reader that these groups were integrated into the military after there was a need andsociety was ready.  In the late 20th Century, there was no shortage of available servicemen that would have warranted allowing openly gay soldiers to serve with people not ready for them.  Steffan accidentally reveals the problem with letting him serve when he notes in a post discharge visit to the Academy, many people treated him differently.  Its likely this attitude would have caused him and the military terrible problems had he entered Naval service.  Many of his other arguments to lift the gay ban also collapse under scrutiny.  In particular, he couches these arguments in a way that he believes there is a right to serve in the military.  There is no such thing.  Go look in the Constitution for this right.  It doesnt exist.    This is not to say open homosexuals shouldnt be allowed to ever serve.  Some of the old arguments (security risk in particular)dont seem to be valid anymore.  I also think its likely attitudes of those now serving may have changed enough to allow the Joe Steffans to serve.  But I can say this much.  I was in the military at the time Mr. Steffan was at the Academy.  Those I served with would have major issues if forced to be in the same unit with this guy!    Another thing Id like to say in Steffan's favor that really doesnt fit above.  While at the Academy, he tells us he became aware of other homosexual midshipmen.  From reading the text I got the feeling some of Steffan's friends in the gay advocacy community pressured him to name names.  He intentionally does not do this, noting this would likely ruin their lives.  Kudos to Joseph Steffan for being a classy guy!    Perhaps its time to lift the gay service ban now.  It definitely wasnt then!	2004-12-01
US	50045286	RX2ILYQQGY49Q	0345359828	435360868	The Last Ship	Books	3	4	7	N	N	A Potential Classic Ruined!	Like other critics here, I am horribly torn over this work.  Here is a storyline as compelling as \\"On the Beach\\".  Out of the blue an all out nuclear war starts.  After all missiles are launched it appears the only survivors are the mixed male/female crew of a US Navy destroyer situated in the North Atlantic.  The wize and capable captain decides to sail into the South Pacific after discovering all major land masses are contaminated with radiation.  After discovering a sanctuary (and a friendly Soviet nuke sub crew that also managed to survive) he must then reorganize a new society made up of technically adept people and too few women! <br /> <br />The basic outline of the story is excellent.  Unfortunately, the author's wrighting style blows it out of the water (pun intended).   Brinkley seems to be really into complex sentences with lots and lots of graduate school level words.  This gets really distracting.   <br /> <br />If you really like post apocalypse novels, you probably need to read this one.  If youre not interested or just want to try out this genre, find something else.	2004-11-30
US	50045286	RDRH0B0RGVLTM	0679724141	821994534	A Bright Shining Lie: John Paul Vann and America in Vietnam	Books	2	49	89	N	N	Bright Shining Bias	Normally I give rabidly anti-Vietnam War books like this one star.  In Mr. Sheehan's case, Ive ramped him up for two reasons.  First, unlike most of his kind, he uses South Vietnamese sources and shows many of them at least a modicum of respect and sympathy.  Also, he does an excellent job of critiquing the American War effort during the Westmoreland years.<br /><br />In this novel, the author tries tell us of the folly of the American war effort in Vietnam by looking at it through the life of John Vann.  Lieutenant Colonel Vann blew the whistle on the poorly thought out American war effort when he served as a military advisor in the early 60s.  He advocated focusing on improving the lot of the average South Vietnamese over fighting Communists.  He essentially believed that if rank and file Viets were happy with their lot in life, they would not help the Communist effort to take over the Republic of Vietnam.  Sadly, the military bureaucracy ignored him.  Vann retired from the military but returned to the war as a civilian advisor.  He participated in the war from the mid 1960s until his death in 1972.<br /><br />The best part of this book is the part that deals with Westmoreland and his predecesors' poorly thought out strategy.  They thought that all they had to do was bring in a large American field army and kill Communists.  As we all know, the plan was a disaster.  Sure, they killed lots of Communists.  But there was always more flowing down the Ho Chi Minh trail.  Add to that, Westmoreland and company were sigularly uninterested in civil affairs.  So besides not killing enough Communists, there were always sufficient recruits in the South who were disgruntled with things as they were.  All an all a well crafted analysis.<br /><br />Sadly, the rest of the book is worthless.  Sheehan begins with the assumption that Ho and his murderers were the only legitmate leaders for Vietnam.  Anything opposing them was futile (if not downright evil).  If the subject matter didnt involve the deaths and enslavement of millions, Sheehan's inconsistancies would be hilarious.  At one point he states the South Vietnamese Diem government was illegitimate because it took on the trappings of the old style Viet dynasties.  Yet within a few pages of this conclusion, he states the Communists were the right people to lead Vietnam because they were descendants of and acted like the old style Mandarin leaders! Huh?!!??  Heres another one.  Sheehan is harshly critical of the Republic of Vietnam Land Reform policies.  Fair enough.  There were problems.  But he curiosly wraps up Ho's land reform program that led to the murder of thousands by claiming it was a mistake by Ho's underlings!  Say what??  Mr. Sheehan, I hope youre reading this because I would like to educate you on something.  North Vietnam was a police state.  People didnt sneeze (let alone execute thousands) without permission from the leadership.  Not only that, land reform based murders were commonplace in Communist revolutions.<br /><br />Which brings us to another problem.  Sheehan bends over backward to excuse Communist thuggery but cuts absolutely no slack for the South Vietnamese and their allies.  A previous post notes Sheehan obsesses over My Lai but gives little analysis to the NVA atrocities in Hue.  The systematic murder of thousands is described as a \\"stupid mistake\\" while the criminal actions of one American lieutenant violating numerous orders is characterized as shorthand for why the US war effort was illegitimate.  Add to that, Sheehan tries to minimize the Hue murders as the actions of hot headed renegade Viet Cong.  This is not true.  The Hue massacre was done by North Vietnamese soldiers carrying lists of tagets likely drawn up in Hanoi.  Heres another gem.  Sheehan brushes off the Communist penchant for killing droves of innocent bystanders in shellings and terrorist bombings by noting they sent out warning messages.  This in contrast to his harsh condemnation of US killing of civilians in Free Fire Zones (Gee Neil, the US gave warnings too you know).  Oh and one more.  Sheehan notes Ho and the Communists came into prominence after WW2 by murdering off all the non-Communist nationalists.  He says this is okay because the non-Communists were trying to kill the Communists.  Besides that, the non-Communists just werent patriotic enough.  Isnt that special!<br /><br />The book is also fatally flawed by its premise.  Basically, it shows Vann to be a sell out.  Sheehan does this by showing how Vann changed from his civil affairs focus in the early 60s to a \\"bomb them into the stone age\\" mindset by the late 60s and early 70s.  Sheehan actually puts lots of evidence in the book showing this was a legitmate change but just cant seem to put two and two together.  The fact is, by the end of the 60s the battle had switched from an insurgency battle to a traditional war against an invading army.  Distributing high quality rice seed and giving land to peasants just doesnt stop North Vietnamese Army juggernauts very well.<br /><br />Another problem is its behind the times.  In particular it paints the North Vietnamese as free willed patriots and the South Vietnamese as illegitimate puppets unable to survive without the aid of foreigners.  Its fairly common knowledge today that the Chinese had almost the same number of troopers in North Vietnam (conducting security and engineering work to free up NVA units for combat) as the US did in South Vietnam.  Still, one would wonder if good old Neil ever wondered why all the equipment captured from the VC and NVA was stamped \\"Made in China\\" or \\"Made in the USSR\\".<br /><br />A major disappointment.  But then again what did you expect from a known pro-Hanoi reporter!ing of civilians in Free Fire Zones (Gee Neil, the US gave warnings too you know).  Oh and one more.  Sheehan notes Ho and the Communists came into prominence after WW2 by murdering off all the non-Communist nationalists.  He says this is okay because the non-Communists were trying to kill the Communists.  Besides that, the non-Communists just werent patriotic enough.  Isnt that special!<br /><br />The book is also fatally flawed by its premise.  Basically, it shows Vann to be a sell out.  Sheehan does this by showing how Vann changed from his civil affairs focus in the early 60s to a \\"bomb them into the stone age\\" mindset by the late 60s and early 70s.  Sheehan actually puts lots of evidence in the book showing this was a legitmate change but just cant seem to put two and two together.  The fact is, by the end of the 60s the battle had switched from an insurgency battle to a traditional war against an invading army.  Distributing high quality rice seed and giving land to peasants just doesnt stop North Vietnamese Army juggernauts very well.<br /><br />Another problem is its behind the times.  In particular it paints the North Vietnamese as free willed patriots and the South Vietnamese as illegitimate puppets unable to survive without the aid of foreigners.  Its fairly common knowledge today that the Chinese had almost the same number of troopers in North Vietnam (conducting security and engineering work to free up NVA units for combat) as the US did in South Vietnam.  Still, one would wonder if good old Neil ever wondered why all the equipment captured from the VC and NVA was stamped \\"Made in China\\" or \\"Made in the USSR\\".<br /><br />A major disappointment.  But then again what did you expect from a known pro-Hanoi reporter!	2004-11-29
US	50045286	R3LA6Z269HAYJV	0345423496	284653366	3001: The Final Odyssey	Books	3	4	8	N	N	Great Story, Poorly Structured	Its the year 3001.  A spacecraft has found Frank Poole and he is revived.  After exploring the new world he lives in, Frank encounters the entities that used to be Dave Bowmman and the HAL 9000 computer who have become tools for the mysterious Monolith.  They have disturbing news.  The Monolith sent a message out to its higher headquaters back in 2001 and is now getting a response.  The response does not look good.  Mankind must act quickly or possibly face annhilation.    I was really disappointed with this book.  The story line is excellent, but Clarke squanders what could have been a great ending to an awesome tale.  The first 3/4 of the book is devoted to Frank Poole getting acquainted with mankind in the year 3001.  His discoveries are certainly very interesting and often thought provoking.  But theres a major disconnect.  Just as the pages are getting short, Clarke drops a bombshell on you.  The Monolith might be about to blow up the solar system.  Even more shocking, mankind may be able to stop this!!!    Huh??!!???  Take on the Monolith???  For decades weve looked on the Monolith as being invincible and the author has the  Discovery crew (and a few others) take on the old enigma in a mere 36 pages! While I found these final pages interesting, I feel  Clarke should have spent more time here.    Also, this book has major timing problems.  Theres a minor entry regarding Frank Poole's childhood that would have made him less than 10 years old for the Jupiter mission!  And heres a biggie.  \\"2010\\" has an exerpt showing the year 10,001 AD that hints at the Monolith still guarding Europa.  How can this be???    I found this book dissapointing.  It certainly had some awesome potential, but the inconsistencies are just too much.	2004-11-24
US	50045286	R2L45A6WILF7EQ	0449208133	868223008	Lucifer's Hammer	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Decent But Flawed Work	I first read this novel back in the 1980s and thought it was great.  Gave it another look recently and came up with a different view.  Although this is a solid novel, it does have problems. <br /> <br />The story is fairly simple.  It recounts numerous people and their efforts to survive in Southern California after the Earth is struck by a comet.  Over time, the story focuses on two groups.  One is a farming community that has set up a feudal system under the control of a US Senator.  The other group is a cannibal army made up of army mutineers, thieves that escaped the drowning of Los Angeles and unfortunates who were captured and brought into the fold.  This band is jointly lead by an army sergeant, a former black panther and a televangelist.  You could imagine what occurs with these bands of survivors. <br /> <br />Larry Niven is a master of hard science fiction.  He does not disapoint us here.  His description of the comet are excellent and he describes the impact wonderfully.  The portraits of the characters were also very compelling in the lead up to impact and the period just after impact as they try to survive.  Two story lines I greatly greatly enojoyed were the scene with the surfers trying to ride out a tsunami and the banker fretting over embezzling money just before impact.  Wonderful additions! <br /> <br />There are also weak points too.  Niven and Pournelle like to put lots of characters into their stories.  Its easy to loose track of the less important characters.  Another issue I had with the novel was it fell behind the times technology wise.  I also thought the authors had civilization break down waaaay too fast.  As best I can tell, the cannibals start eating people about a week after impact.  Dont believe it.  Still, these are not the worst problems in my opinion. <br /> <br />The worst to me is I beleive the authors focus on the wrong groups.  While the cannibals are utterly repulsive, the feudalists are not much better.  I could not work upany sympathy for a group that so callously threw people out in the cold if they were deemed useless.  In fact, I found my self hoping the cannibals would overrun them and eat them.  The two bands I found most intriguing were the nuke plant group and the boy scouts who go wild.  While the power plant people get some attention, you see nothing of the \\"Lord of the Flys\\" style scout troop.  Too bad.....  <br /> <br />	2004-11-22
US	50045286	R3GFKJ38TLBSFW	0671673122	631273694	In the Men's House: An Inside Account of Life in the Army by One of West Point's First Female Graduates	Books	2	10	11	N	N	An Interesting But Flawed Book	I had the pleasure of meeting Carol Barkalow back in the early 90s when she came to Fort Ord to brief my Brigade Commander.  She gave me the impression of being a pretty switched on officer who really wanted to do her job and not obsess over this book she wrote.  Kudos to her. <br /> <br />I found this story interesting but in the end unsatisfying.  It is broken into three sections. The first portion chronicles the author's four years at West Point.  The next delves into her experiences as an Air Defense Lieutenant in Germany and the final section looks at Barkalow's time as a commander of a Fort Lee, Virginia based truck company. <br /> <br />By far, the best section is the West Point chapter.  Here we see the first female cadets and the institution come to grips with each other.  Barkalow is very even handed.  We see an old and esteemed institution trying to come to grips with its being forced to admit females into its ranks.  All in all one gets the impression that most of the leaderships' actions to accomidate the new cadets was haphazard and sloppy......but normally well intended.  And of course we see the backlash from males (mostly cadets) who couldnt come to terms with the change.  This section is pure gold. <br /> <br />The next section is good but not near as good as the West Point chapter.  Here we see newly commissioned Lieutenant Barkalow as she goes through her first duty assignments in an Air Defense Battalion.  Mostly we see the norm; a fresh and inexperienced officer trying to learn the trade.  Still, there are a few gender issues to look at. Some of which are kind of funny.  A good example of this is Barkalow's Battalion Commander kissing her on the cheek upon her promotion to First Lieutenant.  <br /> <br />The final section looks at Barkalow's tour as company commander of the Fort Lee Virginia based 57th Transportation Company.  This final chapter is awful, mainly because it is poorly organized.  The author will in one paragraph discuss a companyfield evaluation, jump into a rant about how unfair it is that female soldiers cant get free abortions on post in the very next paragraph then hop into a  discussion by one of her commanders on leadership.  Just too disjointed for me! <br /> <br />The book also includes a photograph section.  While many of the photos are good choices, many are pointless.  In particular, there are three pics of a Cadet Barkalow assisting the Delaware National Guard in training.  I dont understand why she included these pictures as she does not mention this activity in the book at all!  There is also a photo of a Lieutenant Barkalow accepting some sort of unit physical fitness award.  Again, no mention of this in the story. <br /> <br />Finally, there is a fairly quiet but relentless advocacy of allowing females to serve in combat all through the book.  This bothers me on many levels.  First, Barkalow doesnt make the argument well.  I would like to see a little more than \\"well, my friends think it would work!\\".  Add to that, the author is somewhat of a postergirl for not allowing females in combat.  As a cadet, she is still falling out of physical training runs in her final year!  Add to that a diary exerpt of hers where she states she could not kill another human being unless it was in self defense.  And then there is her fraternization with a subordinate in Germany.  But the most important problem I have with this is that she was allowed to get away with it.  Had she spoke out the other way, she almost certainly would have been cashiered soon after this book was published.  Dont believe me?  The author mentions and criticizes an article by author, Naval Academy grad and former Marine Jim Webb that called for not allowing females in the Naval academy. Mr. Webb was a civilian at the time he wrote the article so the Marines couldnt do much.  However, Mr. Webb was unofficially banished from the academy until he was appointed Secretary of the Navy years later. <br /> <br />In the end, this is an important book for those considering  issues surrounding women in military service.  But its far from perfect!	2004-11-16
US	50045286	RLF6USM9SFR28	0345323440	202451186	Footfall	Books	4	5	5	N	N	A Fine Read!	There is much good to be said about this work.  First off, this is the only space invasion novel I know of that develops the aliens beyond evil little green men blowing up stuff.  Niven and Pournelle create a fairly comprehensive and logical alien culture.  They delve into their language, religion, war fighting, even breeding habits.  Not only that, they manage to make you sympathize with the bad guys to some extent.  Another nice aspect is the hard science approach.  The alien equipment and its operation are rooted in fairly well established theory. <br /> <br />I couldnt give this book a 5 star rating though for most of the same reasons Aaron Lohr noted previously.  To some extent I can rationalize the humans' rampant sexual habits as a way to contrast human habits with the alien seasonal breeding patterns.  Its true, almost every human (married or otherwise) has at least one sexual liason.  And it gets really distracting!  Also, the sci-fi writer threat team is a pretty ridiculous touch of hubris.  One point Aaron Lohr didnt touch on is all but two of the military characters are portrayed as being irrationally brave and/or unbelievably stupid.  Ive met quite a few generals in my life and they dont act like the flag rank retards in this novel!  Finally the last scene involving the US President is just flat out wrong.  Wouldnt happen that way. <br /> <br />The blemishes in Footfall are numerous.  But the good in the story outshines the problems.	2004-11-09
US	50045286	R2V36DSKCVH0N7	0451195086	417690571	Sog: The Secret Wars of America's Commandos in Vietnam	Books	4	5	7	N	N	A Foxhole View of Covert War in Vietnam	Former Green Beret John Plaster was a recon team member of the Studies and Observations Group (SOG).  This highly secretive unit was tasked with waging covert war against North Vietnam.  Although it was far from a smashing success, it did manage to cause North Vietnam to commit many troops to defending the Ho Chi Minh Trail (rather than sending them into the Republic of Vietnam), ratcheted up the Paranoia in North Vietnam proper with hints of coups and anti-communist guerillas and provided America's senior leadership with quality intelligence.  In the proccess, its members won more valor awards per capita than troops in any other unit in Vietnam (and probably more than those in any unit in any American war!). <br /> <br />Plaster tells the story primarily from the prospective of the individual soldier.  He takes you into the jungles of Laos and Cambodia where you get to see amazing acts of heroism and daring do.  He has excellent recounts of every event that lead to a SOG member being awarded a Congressional Medal of Honor.  Plaster also shows us some of the more unusual activities such as the first HALO (High Altitude Low Opening) parachute insertion, prisoner snatches, POW rescue attempts, etc. <br /> <br />I shorted this book one star for two reasons.  First there is very little analysis for most SOG operations.  The author  quantifies SOG recon teams' success in Cambodia pretty well but doesnt delve too far into how the psychological ops section performed.  Next, Plaster short sheets the SOG naval component tasked with raiding the North Vietnamese coast.  To some extent this is understandable given that US servicemembers did not directly participate in these operations.  Still, it would have been nice if he could have dug up a RVN Sea Commando to get some stories.  Despite this analysis shortage, Plaster does give us some anecdotal evidence that SOG hurt the Communists.  Examples include a SOG team inspecting a section of Cambodia it had just called air strikesin and discovering numerous dead Viet Cong attached to the COSVN (the primary communist headquarters) and the North Vietnamese conditioning peace talks on America shutting down SOG psyop's fake guerilla movement. <br /> <br />As I hinted in a previous review, you can get the SOG analysis in Richard Schultz's \\"The Secret War Against Hanoi\\".  Read them in tandem.  The story of these brave men will blown your socks off!	2004-10-12
US	50045286	R92XYGL146PT6	0553285432	203365536	Burster	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Excellent	As I understand it, this is Mr. Capobianco's first published work.  If so, hes got a lot to live up to as this is an excellent work! <br /> <br />The author begins as Earth's first manned interstellar craft \\"Asia\\" is about to reach its target star system.  Shortly after reaching orbit, \\"Asia\\" suddenly looses contact with Earth.  After a little research the crew discover they are stranded. It appears a test of a spacecraft engine similar to theirs blew up in Earth orbit. <br /> <br />At this time, the story breaks into two segments.  One is the \\"Asia\\" commander's efforts to figure out exactly what happened back home by sending the young slacker Peter Zolotin back in an exploration satellite called \\"Traveller\\".  While Zolotin flys home, civil war breaks out between the long term inhabitants of \\"Asia\\" and a scientific team that were pulled out of suspended animation upon entry into the new star system. <br /> <br />Although the story is short, the author does an excellent job of developing the characters.  At times one of the segments of the stroy line will slow down but the other one more than takes up the slack when this happens.  All in all a good first showing.  <br /> <br />I read this book many years ago and it appears the book is out of print.  Take it from me, its worth it to search hard for this gem! <br /> <br />	2004-10-11
US	50045286	R3ISIZA6C0C59K	0060932538	230910287	The Secret War Against Hanoi: The Untold Story of Spies, Saboteurs, and Covert Warriors in North Vietnam	Books	4	3	4	N	N	The Story of the Mythical SOG	I had heard of the Studies and Observations Group as far back as the early 80s.  As it the organization was so shrouded in mystery, it was hard to tell what was fact.  Richard Schultz pulls the shroud away in this scholarly work and we discover the truth is stranger than fiction. <br /> <br />In the early 1960s, JFK directed his underlings to unleash a covert war against North Vietnam.  Sort of a do to them what theyre doing to us deal.  The CIA and then Defense Department create the Studies and Observations Group (SOG)and give it four primary missions.  These were to insert Vietnamese spies into North Vietnam, conduct attacks on the North Vietnamese Coast, undermine North Vietnam with Psychological Warfare (Psywar), and finally to collect intelligence on and impede use of the Ho Chi Minh Trail. <br /> <br />The author comes to the reasoned conclusion that SOG was a moderate failure.  He shows the main factors in this failure to be timidity of policy makers to use SOG to its full potential out of a fear too much success would expand the war, indifference on the part of conventionally minded military leadership, a failure to incorporate SOG's unconventional war with the conventional war and effective North Vietnamese countermeasures. <br /> <br />Despite these fatal flaws, Schultz shows SOG did manage to provide some assitance to the war effort.  In particular, the psywar program apparently drove the already paranoid North Vietnamese of the deep end and SOG recon teams on the Ho Chi Minh trail collected valuable intelligence and eliminate significant amounts of men and materiel. <br /> <br />The best part in my opinion was the portions relating to psywar.   SOG went so far as to develop a fake resistance movement and left physical hints of its existence in interesting ways.  Other psywar efforts included fake letters meant to implicate the Communist faithful in coup plots and exploding ammunition inserted into supply caches.  Pretty cool stuff! <br /> <br />The onlydown side to the book is its kind of dry reading.  By all accounts, SOG was the most highly decorated unit in US history.  To his credit, Schultz touches on this but should have gone farther.  There is no mention of Fred Zabitosky, Roy Benavides or Bob Howard (a man nominated three times for the Medal of Honor before finally receiving the award).  Also, he does not quantify the success of the Ho Chi Minh Trail activities.  The author tells us that recon team activities hurt and annoyed the North Vietnamese but there is no mention of exact tonnage of Communist equipment destroyed or the thousands of Communist soldiers tasked with patrolling the Trail because of SOG activities. <br /> <br />All and all a good, solid work.  But sadly incomplete.  To get the full picture, read this book in conjunction with John Plaster's \\"SOG\\".	2004-09-29
US	50045286	R1D9TQP7RTMQ33	075921137X	695540330	Out of the Ashes (Ashes Series #1)	Books	3	10	22	N	N	Plan 9 of the Literary World!	Back in the mid 50s, Director Ed Wood made \\"Plan 9 From Outerspace\\" which has been called the worst movie ever made.  Despite its glaring problems, the movie has become wildly popular.  This book has lots in common with Mr. Wood's opus. <br /> <br />I wont detail all the problems with \\"Out of the Ashes\\".  The writing is shoddy, the plot is silly, there are tons of logical errors and the political/moral philosophy Mr. Johnstone seems to advocate is disjointed and childish.  The action sequences are often decent but you have to put up with multi-chapter rants between scenes.  All this makes for a novel so wretched and horrible you just cant put it down! <br /> <br />A word of warning though.  This book is actually the first of a series that tells the tale of super-patriot Ben Raines' effort to rebuild America as it should be in a post-apocalyptic world.  Ive read a couple of the installments.  The strange charm one can find in the first book does not carry on to later novels in the series.  Dont bother with the rest of the \\"Ashes\\" series.  They have absolutely no redeeming qualities.	2004-09-27
US	50045286	R2RCGSSOG4PZ37	0842329129	46316172	Left Behind: A Novel of the Earth's Last Days (Left Behind No. 1)	Books	4	10	15	N	N	Series Review	I put off reading this series for a number of years.  Eventually, I caved in after seeing all the controversy that arose from this End Times story.  While there are certainly faults, its a pretty good tale. <br /> <br />The story lines basically goes like this.  Rayford Steele is a 747 pilot who has not accepted Jesus as his savior.  While flying across the Atlantic, Christ comes back and takes away all believers and innocents (mainly young children not old enough to be expected to make such a decision).  Soon afterwards, Steele and his remaining friends and loved ones come to accept Christ and develop a quasi-partisan movement called the Tribulation Force that seeks to bring believers into the fold, resists the Anti-Christ (in the form of World Leader Nicholae Carpathia), and aids believers as they suffer through God's judgments during the Tribulation period. <br /> <br />Heres what I like about the series.  It puts the events noted in Revelation into a contemporary context.  I found this helpful as I could never wrap my mind around these events simply by readins a Bible myself.  Although there are lulls, the action is pretty well paced.  Finally, it stayed on course well and the authors largely kept their political and religious biases out of print (although if you read it deep enough youll figure out the authors are pro-life and LeHaye's notorious anti-Catholic bent pops up from time to time). <br /> <br />Now heres the not so good aspects.  After the first couple installments, the series takes on a comic bookish atmosphere.  And as has been said by other critics, the characters are about as dimensional as a movie theater cardboard cut out.  There are also some unfortunate technological and cultural screw ups too.  Probably the worst though is that the authors went off their \\"exactly as Revelation tells it\\" philosophy in the final installment (more about that in a later review of \\"Glorious Appearing\\"). <br /> <br />I find some of the other criticisms of this series off base.  The first major criticism is the idea many have that the story is farfetched.  There is some validity here.  As in example, it seems beyond comprehension that people would line up in droves to accept identifying tattoos given the \\"Mark of the Beast\\" concept is out in public discourse.  But one must realize Messrs. LeHaye and Jenkins are confined by an already written script!  How can they stay true to the story if they diverge from the underlying events?  The other one is the \\"I just dont believe in this\\" critique.  Fine.  There are lots of non Chrisitans who think all this is nonsense.  And there are also Christians who dont believe this is how the world will end.  And yes, the authors are trying to make people become Born Again Christians.  To all this I say so what?  Jenkins and LeHaye have put onto paper a schematic of how history ends that many people do believe.  If you want to get a glimpse of how these people see things, you could do much worse! <br /> <br />In the end Ill just say this.  Give it a try.  At least read the first book in the series.  Its a pretty good tale and its not going to hurt you!	2004-09-22
US	50045286	R20KG5UQHPP0WA	0671727036	211864180	The Line of Fire: From Washington to the Gulf, the Politics and Battles of the New Military	Books	2	4	10	N	N	I Think They Created a Monster	As autobiographies go, this is one of my least favorite.  I prefer ones that put put their subjects' life into context.  This one is merely a chronological recount of the 11th Chairman of the Joint Chiefs' life from birth to the early years of his retirement.  This opens the way for folks like me to summarize for him.  As you read below, youll see thats not necessarily a good thing. <br /> <br />ADM Crowe had a very spectacular career in many respects.  Most Navy officers further themselves through command, engineering education and patronage by senior naval officers.  Crowe followed none of these.  Early in his career, he chose to chart his own course.  While he completed the usual command tours expected of a submarine officer, he did so on diesel subs after refusing to enter the nuclear navy (and thus turning the famous and powerful Admiral Rickover into an enemy).  Instead of pursuing graduate studies in engineering, he chose to seek a PhD in politics at Princeton.  While his book doesnt specifically state it, it appears he shot through the higher ranks because of his association with civilian politicians and diplomats.  One gets the sense he was not entirely popular in the naval community. <br /> <br />Despite this, he made it to the top.  Some of this can be attributed to blind luck.  But certainly his amazing track record in politico/military affairs made him deserving of accolades.  He was probably the perfect JCS Chairman for the mid to late eighties.  Instances of direct combat were rare and isolated so the need for a warrior type was just not there.  And it seems his negotiating skills and political knowledge went a long way to help bring about a quiet end to the Cold War. <br /> <br />Then there is the weirdness.  Its hard to devine from this tome why Admiral Crowe developed a poorly thought out liberal mindset.  I think it came from his contact with leftists at Princeton.  Perhaps there are other things that happened he didnt discuss but it seems he veered left in the early 60s while working on his PhD.  Examples of this are rampant.  In the early 70s he was ordered by a superior to write a paper recounting North Vietnamese violations of the Geneva Accords that brought an end to the French occupation.  Instead he wrote a document revealing Communist and US violations.......even though he freely admits the US never signed the accord!  How does one violate an agreement it never entered into??  Then there were the unseemly backdoor maneuverings of Crowe to get out to the media his opposition to SDI.  For those that dont know, military officers arent supposed to do this.  Lets not forget his bizarre decision to appear on the sitcom \\"Cheers\\". Dont know about everyone else but I like my flag rank officers to act professionally.   And of course there is the crown jewel of weirdness.  His decision to break precedent and endorse Clinton for President shortly after he retired. <br /> <br />Here is where things get funny.  The good Admiral gives two main reasons for this endorsement.  First he was appalled that the US government didnt have a good industrial plan.  Ummmmmm, last I checked the US had a free market economy and the government wasnt supposed to have \\"industrial plans\\"!  He was also critical of what he saw as Republican tendencies to divide Americans against each other.  He gives no examples of this.  Just as well, as hed be hard pressed to come up with examples.  That said, he chose to throw his lot in with the political party that purveys Marxist class envy!  Go figure.  I might chalk this up to bad judgment, but Admiral Crowe went on to endorse Clinton in 96 and now Kerry in 2004.   <br /> <br />So what do we have?  Id say Crowe shows himself to be a gifted person who chose his own way and succeeded despite the odds against him.  Unfortunately, he seems to have suffered from brain damage and now roams the political landscape like the proverbial Frankenstein's Monster!	2004-08-31
US	50045286	R3285QR3JNC6Z8	096670360X	281307387	Stolen Valor : How the Vietnam Generation Was Robbed of Its Heroes and Its History	Books	5	35	40	N	N	Sets the Record Straight	Go and ask a person on the street to describe an average Vietnam vet.  The likely response would be such a person would be a 17 year old uneducated black draftee.  They would go further and state he would have never transitioned back to civilian life, was scarred by his service and probably suffers from Post Traumatic Stress Disorder an/or Agent Orange exposure.  Through irrefutable research, B.G. Burkett shows this to be all wrong.  Apparently, the average Vietnam Vet is an American Everyman.  He is likely to have served sometime in his early twenties in a mundane logistical/clerical postion and his racial identity was demographically normal. He was not harmed long term by his service and is in fact proud of having gone to war.  Although he may have faced some prejudices upon coming back, hes probably now a normal and successful member of society.    So how did this happen?  Mr. Burkett explains this too.  The image of the Vietnam Vet as a victim was developed by many different entities.  Among these include the anti-war movement and its anti-veteran agitprop, biased/lazy media people who would print any wild story that fits into their worldview and the actions of government bureaucracies that depend on funding if they show Vietnam vets are needy.  Finally, there is another category that Mr. Burkett spends most of his time and effort on: The wannabe/phony.  These are people who pretend to be veterans or are veterans who grossly embellish their service for self-promotion purposes.    Through Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) requests for military records, the author outs some of the most egregious phonies.  Some of the these people are truly pathetic and include such scum as anti-war draft dodgers who pretend to be special ops commandos and truck drivers who never saw Vietnam yet sport Medals of Honor they claim they were awarded for Vietnam heroism.  He also reveals various politicians who lied about their service such as Sen Harkin who claimed to be a Vietnam Veteran even though his records show no Vietnam service.  Although he doesnt specifically lay them down, Mr. Burkett does reveal warning signs to look out for when confronting such people.  Examples of this include claims that military records were destroyed in a fire, that there is no documentation for medals because they were given for heroism on secret missions and chronological impossibilities.     The only criticism I have about this book is that Mr. Burkett occasionally piles on too much.  A good example is his treatment of historian Shelby Stanton.  Mr. Burkett spends multiple paragraphs belittling CPT Stanton's physical prowess at Ranger School and while serving in Special Forces.  This really his nothing to do with Stanton being a wannabe.  That said, there are no instances of this piling on where the target didnt do something else highly questionable.  In this case, there is no doubt that CPT Stanton has lied about being on Special Operations missions in Southeast Asia.  Discussing his weakling status is just icing on the cake.    This book is truly a breath of fresh air.  Every serious Vietnam War historian needs to have a copy.	2004-08-23
US	50045286	R2KOGB6YFI92ON	094267927X	648587365	Purple Sun: An epic tale of war and redemption	Books	4	3	4	N	N	A Journey to Redemption	This novel must be unique.  It is the only story by an American author that is centered around Vietnam but does not obsess about the war.  The war is certainly a part of the novel, but there is none of the usual soul searching one sees in the typical Vietnam novel.  Dropping this device lets us see the spiritual side of Vietnam like weve never seen before.<br />This is the story of three pilgrims searching for completeness.  One, a marine rifleman named Billy Kern who murdered a Buddhist monk, mysteriously disappears in the countryside.  The other two, an Army senior NCO and a Stars and Stripes reporter must come to terms with their complicity in sending the young rifleman back to combat when perhaps he should have been sent for psychiatric treatment.  The two soldiers go about their lives but the fate of Kern nags them.  The reporter, who goes on to work at major news bureaus, keeps finding stories about a Caucasian Monk walking through the Vietnamese countryside burying the dead.  The reporter and former NCO eventually come to the conclusion they must find this monk and hopefully find out what happened to Billy Kern.<br />In between these events, we see the characters develop on their spiritual journey. We see the reporter go from a crusader to having second thoughts about the path he chose into the Vietnamese countryside.  We see the NCO try to avoid his destiny by rationalizing away all proof Kern is alive but come around in the end to insure they finish the journey to destiny in Vietnam.  Or perhaps it is elsewhere!  Read the book and decide for yourself.<br />The characters are well developed and interestingly flawed each in his own special way.  Seeing them work through these quirks is also a real treasure.  The only reservation I had was the Vietnamese guide Truong.  I felt he should have had a bigger role in the story.  He also seems to be a pilgrim picked up later in the journey.  Unfortunately, there is not enough time for him to develop as the other three do.<br />All in all an excellent novel.  Highly recommended it for those interested spiritual journeys.	2004-06-30
US	50045286	R1YLPKOX6ILS82	0385129637	52841974	The Five Fingers	Books	2	0	0	N	N	Entertaining Drivel	A previous reviewer noted Gayle Rivers is not the vaunted SAS commando he claims to be in this book but an Australian trooper who never saw the shores of Vietnam.  I dont know about this.  I have searched the internet and found nothing.  However, I would not be the slightest bit surprised if it were true given some of the silliness in this novel.<br />Here's the basic premise.  Someone very powerful (Westmoreland or Nixon)cobbles together a seven man special forces team consisting of a representitive from each allied nation (except South Vietnam because you cant trust those jokers to keep a secret!) and from the United Kingdom.  Each is the best operator in his nation's SF arsenal.  Their mission.....Im not kidding.....is to end the Vietnam War by sneaking into Southern China and assassinating a bunch of Chinese, North Vietnamese and North Korean leaders at a conference.<br />Well, the laughs keep piling on top of one another.  Our brave commandos will march through Laos and North Vietnam rather than doing some type of airmobile insertion. Rivers explains this is to protect Operational Security.  OK, but each team member carries enough weapons, ammo and gear to give an elephant a hernia!  And by the way, they sure need the ammo because they expend it by the truck-load in their many many firefights.  So much for keeping stealthy and mainatining OPSEC!  And the team's modes of operation make no sense.  Each trooper wears his unit's respective beret.  For those that dont know, SF guys rarely  wear berets in the field as they dont provide good cammo.   During operational pauses our brave warriors often build hootches and cook on campfires.  Oh, give me a break!!!  <br />Then there are the organizational problems.  The Korean rep is from the Korean Rangers....a unit that does not exist.  Oh, and the Korean has a Chinese name!  The three SAS guys wear blue berets which is funny because SAS berets are all sand colored. Rivers himself claims to be a twenty something year old warrant officer...a rank it would normally take a NZ trooper decades to attain.  I will give Gayle some credit here.  He tries to explain this away by saying it was necessary for him to outrank the American Green Berets he often has to lead/train and because he's so good.  I aint buying it but its a nice try.  <br />Despite this, the book is fun to read in a Rambo sort of way.  Nothing can stop these Supermen as they faithfully carry out their orders and rush headlong to their destiny.  Just remember this when you read book.  Dont take it seriously!	2004-01-18
US	50045286	R35VBU9L1N195H	067003214X	177308601	Patriots: The Vietnam War Remembered from All Sides	Books	4	47	50	N	N	Best Vietnam Oral History Yet	I have read a few oral histories focused on the American phase of the Vietnam War.  I have found them all faulty for one of three reasons.  They are either fraudulent, the authors biases scream out at you, or they are incomplete (most common is not including South Vietnamese viewpoints).  Mr. Appy has surmounted these pitfalls and produced a decent work.<br />Most refreshing to me is seeing the pro-West South Vietnamese perspective.  I found the South Vietnamese Diplomat who specialized in trying to sell the war to Americans and the captured ARVN commando most intriguing.  But there is more.  Appy has samples of the whole spectrum.  You can find high ranking pro war, low level anti war, communists, republican (South Vietnamese that is), soldier, guerilla, pilot, etc.  You name the type of person, he/she is probably represented.....except for parties from the Free World Forces (Korea, Australia, Thailand, etc that also fought in the war).  Still, this is a pretty minor omission.<br />I docked this book one star.  To say Mr. Appy is biased is too harsh.  I think its better to say has bought into the notion the US/Republic of Vietnam war effort was pointless.  Ive seen Appy do a few interviews on TV.  He always states the South lost because they were just puppets dependent on foreigners to keep them afloat (which ignores the fact that AK47s dont grow on trees and the Chinese Army units that garrisoned the North to free up NVA units going South were far from home grown).  This attitude can also be found in the book.  A good example is a footnote of Appy's that reinforces a Communist Vietnamese source's notion that Korean troops were just mercenaries.  I am plugged into the Korean community and know quite a few of their Vietnam Vets.  Money (in the form of US aid) was a very minor consideration in their participation.  Despite this, Appy gives all sides a voice in his book.  For this, he should be commended!	2004-01-11
US	50045286	R21DGJ7WC2O3J	0684818906	668866041	First in His Class: A Biography Of Bill Clinton	Books	5	27	45	N	N	Spot On	I decided I hated Clinton a few days after 18 of my brother soldiers were slaughtered in Mogadishu.  It was the day the first load of wounded Rangers came back to the states.  I dont expect Presidents to be standing tall every moment wounded troops come back.  But I do expect they would have enough decency not to tout their health care initiatives by visiting wounded gang bangers on such a day (as Clinton did).  I read this book a few years after that incident.  Still hate Clinton and her husband......just not as much!<br />Mr. Maraniss paints an interesting picture of Bill Clinton.  Here is a truly brilliant man who learned the ins and outs of the American political system.  A man who can spend a law school semester on the campaing trail yet manage to pass with some intense studying at the least moment (Im a law school grad an freely admit I couldnt do this!).  But he also shows us the spoiled child side too.  A person who was doted an indulged in his early years and who essentially got everything he wanted.  Its no wonder he thought he was too good to serve in the military!  Speaking of that Mr. Maraniss puts to bed for all eternity the draft issue.  He makes it quite clear Clinton received an induction notice and then did everthing in his power to avoid service.  Why should he serve his nation or follow his marriage vows?  He was the best of the best and should be above the law!     <br />So there you go.  The good and the bad of a very polarizing character in a very intriguing format. Clinton lovers, nows the time to hit the not helpful button and get the hate email flowing!	2003-12-29
US	50045286	R1ZPS4UJTY8MPF	0671577948	912869365	The Domination	Books	5	16	18	N	N	A Truly Underrated Alternate History Universe	Most Alternate History afficianados (myself included) are minutia fixated wonks.  Because of this we sometimes dont see the forest for the trees.  I recently read Stirling's explanation about what he was tying to do with the Draka Universe.  I became a believer.<br />Stirling is not necessarily trying to make a technically plausible AH here.  his main goal was to take the worst of Western Civilization (chattel slavery, single minded quests for power, misuse of technology, etc) and let it condense and fester.  He does that by having British Colonial Loyalists evacuate America after the Revolution and set up shop in whats now South Africa.<br />That said, there are technical issues that are troubling.  The Draka seem to develop in a vaccuum.  While I can understand outside forces not making much of a dent on the Draka slavers, I cant see the rest of the world essentially ignoring the Draka military tech advances. Also, I just cant see other powerful nations sitting back and doing nothing while the Draka gobble up everything in sight.  <br />To truly appreciate the Draka series, you must view them much the same way you would a comic book.  If you look too deep, youll spoil the fun.  So, take it for what it is and enjoy the ride!	2003-08-28
US	50045286	R2I5QVMP6CNY0Q	0151002665	251438884	A Better War: The Unexamined Victories and Final Tragedy of America's Last Years in Vietnam	Books	4	25	31	N	N	The best yet in Vietnam War Revisionism	This book is by far the best in a new wave of scholarly works that contend the American War effort in Vietnam was legitimate and/or winnable.  Sorely convincingly argues that the Free World Forces had essentially won sometime in 1970-1971 by successfully denying the Communists access to the Republic of Vietnam's population and through successful nation building.  By this time, South Vietnam was a viable nation that could survive indefinitely as long as it continued to recieve US financial support and access to American air power.<br />Mr. Sorley backs his thesis up with good statistics.  He seems to understand that many will question any US government data from Vietnam and backs each contention with anecdotal evidence.  Some examples of this include CIA chief Colby wandering alone at night alone in a rural area where years earlier he would surely have been murdered and South Vietnamese militia (the folks common wisdom says either ran away or defected on sight of Communist forces) going toe to toe and besting the cream of the North Vietnamese Army.<br />Most criticisms of this book claim its just another in a line of &quot;we were stabbed in the back by liberals and the media&quot; tomes.  Its more than that but there is a very minor undercurrent of this.  If Mr. Sorely contends we had victory in the bag, then an exploration of why we ultimately lost is essential.  Sorely seems to believe the opportunity for success was destroyed by liberal elites (here represented by Senator Kennedy and Jane Fonda) campaigning for a Communist victory even after American ground forces were being removed from the theater and by powers in the media largely refusing to broadcast the later successes in Vietnam (represented mainly by anectdotal evidence that Walter Cronkite spiked all reports showing the war effort in a good light during this time period).  Such activity further sapped war weary Americans and the anti-communist leadership.  This in turn allowed the pro-Comunist elements in our society to cut off the essential aid discussed above.  All in all this is a very small portion of the book (10-15 pages at most).<br />I docked the book one star because of Sorely's irrational hero worship of General Abrams who seems to be the prime mover in the reforms that brought such success.  I agree Abrams was a much better commander than Westmoreland and he was largely responsible for the improvements Sorely describes.  Unfortunately, Sorely pushes it too far at times.  Heres a prime example.   Abrams' main strategy was to secure population centers and use American forces in direct combat only if the benefits would be high and the price low.  By doing this, he denied the Communists recruits and logistical support while not exaserbating American war weariness.  This flies in the face of the &quot;Hamburger Hill&quot; Battle where elements of the 101st Airborne were sent head on up a fortified hill.  Sorely says this was justified because it was necessary to open up an access route into Saigon.  Im not convinced.  By this time, ARVN had adequate resources to do the job.  Also, the battle caused Congressional constraints that essentially ended his ability to use Ameircan ground forces in direct action again.  Doesnt seem worth the price to me.<br />However, this book is a keeper and essential to any serious study of the Vietnam War.	2003-08-28
US	50045286	R2JAZUVFPFTY2B	0842384189	996378843	Apocalypse Dawn, The Earth's Last Days: The Battle Begins (Left Behind Series)	Books	2	72	82	N	N	A Noble Concept that Falls on Its Face	I was really looking forward to this book.  Im a big fan of the \\"Left Behind\\" series.  I have really enjoyed seeing Messrs Lahaye and Jenkins write a story using the End Times as a backdrop.  The only problem I had with that series was the authors' technical inaccuracies in the realm of weapons, avionics, logisitcs, etc.  I thought this new \\"military thriller\\" would right some of those wrongs.   That is not the case.<br />Mr. Odom does seem to understand some of the basics of military hardware. He knows B52s are bombers and that M4s are a type of rifle. Beyond that, there are MAJOR flaws.  <br />First off, the structure of Army units and their deployment is just wrong. Any general who would put a lightly armed Ranger Battalion on the front line opposing a Syrian mechanized army would be fired.  As would a company commander (Cal Remington here) who would send his senior non commissioned officer into harms way to do jobs meant for soldiers with 15-20 years less experience.  There is more to a Ranger Headquarters than a Captain and a handful of computer technicians and Im positive they dont go into the field with hyper powerful (and sensitive) Cray computers!  And the errors go on.  Marine Sergeants do not co-pilot helicopters.  First Sergeants dont give orders to officers.  Servicemebers dont communicate with each other over radios using Police/CB Radio jargon.  Soldiers dont get assigned directly out of basic training to the Ranger Battalions no matter how impressive their computer skills are.  You cant take on tanks with sniper rifles and M203 Grenade Launchers and expect to succeed (let alone live). <br />There's an interesting sub-plot with Megan Gander, First Sergeant Gander's wife who is a counselor trying to save an abused child while tending to her family.  But even there the errors are rampant.  There is no such thing as Ranger Military Police.  Army bases are not called bases.  They're called posts. And Army commanders deal very harshly with their subordinates who abuse family members.  Its likely the father of the abused child in this book would be in jail or drummed out of the service long before the events in this book could happen.<br />The only character I had no fault with was the Navy Chaplain who regains his faith just after the Rapture. Mr. Odom uses him effectively to put the religious matters in context.  Also, his confrontation with a demon in the Pentagon is interesting.<br />All in all, I consider this novel a failure......but I have hope for follow on books.  The concept has lots of potential.  I believe the series could be salvaged in two ways.  First, the author could research the basics before writing the next novel.  Simple things like knowing the lingo and rank structure would go a long way for folks like me who know better.  The other option is to speed things up to the point in the original series where the US Armed forces would cease to exist.  Im sure the good guys are going to take to the hills eventually.  Why not cut to the chase?<br />Well, thats enough for one night.  I think I can sum this up in four wors.  Better luck next time!	2003-08-04
US	50045286	R1XBASLWJI3WTG	0684812029	180892560	Our Vietnam/Nuoc Viet Ta: A History of the War 1954-1975	Books	1	24	60	N	N	Terrible!!	Had this book been written in the late 70s or early 80s, I might be able to give this book a few more stars.  However, its now the 21st Century and the evil and treachery of the Vietnamese Communists is well known.  This book heaps great praise on the butchers of Hanoi.  It is obscene.<br />The book is peppered with the old Leftist pap on the war.  Langguth obsessess for numerous pages on My Lai, but brushes aside the systematic slaughter of 4,000 residents of Hue as sort of an unfortunate mistake to be resolved in one paragraph.  US/South Vietnamese incursions into Laos and Cambodia are portrayed as borderline war crimes, but the North Vietnamese occupation of parts of these same coutries for 15 years doesnt rate one word. Langguth goes to great lengths to ignore the international contribution to keeping a free South Vietnam.  Australia and South Korea are mentioned on a few pages.  The Philipine contribution isnt mentioned at all.  The Americans are stupid, South Vietnamese officials are referred to as collaborators and the North Vietnamese all are given the aura of Patriots.  In short, this book is just liberal propaganda.<br />To make matters worse, its often highly innacurate.  The incursions of Cambodia and Laos are portrayed as utter disasters when we now know the North Vietnamese were hurt very badly by them.  He also goes overboard in his portrayal of South Vietnamese as evil and corrupt.  A prime example is GEN Truong Ngo Quang.  Langguth lays blame for the loss of everything North of Kontum at the feet of this fine soldier and has him fleeing disaster in a comfortable helicopter ride.  GEN Truong did the best he could with conflicting orders and no supplies.  In the end, he escaped over the beach with his men.<br />Bottom line:  this book is disgusting.  Its not fit for anything except perhaps kindling.	2000-12-26
US	50045286	R251PREHYEDB3M	051759871X	132075104	The President We Deserve: Bill Clinton: His Rise, Falls, and Comebacks	Books	1	6	24	N	N	Really Rates Zero Stars	Normally, I dont review books I havent fully read.  I make an exception for this one.  I picked this garbage up at a book store and flipped through it a little.  I came across a passage where the author tried to justify  Clinton's draft dodging ways by stating that Clinton wanted to be President  and most Presidents with military service backgrounds served in the Navy.  This of course begs the question of why Clinton didnt join the Navy.  Knowing this , or any other tough question would never be answered, I put  the book down.<br />I did read the bio of Mr. Walker on the jacket cover too.  He is far from non-partisan as other reviewers describe.  He attended  Oxford with Clinton and his background screams Socialist.<br />I see this book  is out of print.  A wise decision there!	2000-06-02
US	50045286	R11OWZ2G0YLFMY	0895262584	248895608	Red Dragon Rising: Communist China's Military Threat to America	Books	4	9	12	N	N	Decent Follow Up!	Triplett and Timperlake have done it again!  With this gem, they show how the prime threat to world peace is China.  This is due to the Chinese Leaderships' wonton proliferation of nuclear weapons and launch systems,  extremely heavy handed treatment of internal dissent and its long history  of agression toward its neighbors (to include the Philipines, Vietnam,  Korea, Taiwan, Myanmar, India, Japan, Russia, Thailand and Tibet).  This  book also maps out likely Chinese agressive acts in the near future.<br />It  also shows how the Clinton administration has allowed this agression to go  unchecked.  The main ways this has happened is questionable technology  transfers and appeasement.  This was probably done due to the cash the  Chinese gave Clinton/Gore campaigns in 1992 and 1996.<br />The only criticism  I have is that it assumes Clinton policies towards China came from the  campaign contributions.  Because of this, this book only makes complete  sense when read with &quot;Year of the Rat&quot; where the connection is  explained.  Nevertheless, this is a great book that should make freedom  loving people concerned.	2000-05-27
US	50045286	R1ATFFBWEUJS9D	0030707315	163485872	Warday and the Journey Onward	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Excellent, Somewhat Biased Book	I agree with Rick Harper. This book has a Leftish bent to it. The fictional war was our fault for deploying Star Wars. We got what we deserved for scaring the pants off the Soviets. Now, the world is safe with enlightened countries like those of Europe and Japan controlling things. Blah, blah, blah, blah. Typical Leftist/Radical dogma.<br />Fortunately, this bias is just an undercurrent and doesnt overwhelm what is otherwise an excellent book. The research is quite good. They make an compelling case for a nuke war cut short by Soviet and US command/control systems being fried by electo-magnetic pulse. The conjecture of a post war world is also believable as is their conjecture about day to day life in post war America.<br />Fortunately, those days seem to be behind us. Still, this is a wonderful  book for those that like to wonder about the what ifs!	2000-04-10
US	50045286	R2UMDWK8HR8QUO	0671796585	273948085	Trial By Fire	Books	1	4	14	N	N	Garbage In Garbage Out	Harold Coyle has written some classics and some real stinkers.  This is one of the latter.<br />The biggest problem I have with this book is two faulty assumptions Coyle makes.  First, that America would be so out of  touch with what's going on in Mexico that we would be forced to fight  another war with them.  As critical as Mexico is to the USA, this is  unlikely.  The second fatal flaw is his assumption that women can be  successfully and quickly integrated into combat arms units.  From my  experiences as a former Army officer, I dont believe they are either  physically or psycholgically capable.  Also, he shows the integration as  going along WAY too smoothly.  I think our young lieutenant would face much  more serious credibility problems with her troops than shown in this  novel.<br />The actual writing is pretty good.  The story is action packed and  from my perspective fairly realistic (if you look over the fatal flaws).   If this book were classified as Science Fiction or Alternate History, I  might give it 4 stars.  But it is military fiction.  Most military fiction  readers (at least the ones I know) like their fiction FIRMLY grounded in  reality.  This book is out in La La land.  Stick with his earlier works and  leave this book for the Sci-Fi enthusiasts and radical feminists.	2000-04-07
US	50045286	R1MLMBDS6SELT9	0895263335	139248142	Year of the Rat: How Bill Clinton Compromised U.S. Security for Chinese Cash	Books	5	19	22	N	N	There Goes the Legacy Bill!	Mssrs Triplett and Timperlake unravel the Clinton campaign finance scandal.  They show how Chinese government officials went about helping Bill Clinton get elected to the Presidency since he would allow them to get sensitive technology and leave them alone.  They also show how Clinton and  his flunkies gladly accepted this much needed assistance from their  Communist benefactors.<br />The book is almost pure fact.  Where it is  conjecture, the authors note it as such and always do a great job selling  their case.   The color photos are pretty damning too.<br />Clinton and crew  seem to be concerned about the impeachment putting a black mark on their  legacy.  They shouldnt worry about that.  This book has sunk the Clinton  legacy for eternity.	2000-04-03
US	50045286	R2MLZVGRUDB2OP	0425158632	506174805	Executive Orders (A Jack Ryan Novel)	Books	1	12	21	N	N	Rubbish	I am an Army veteran and I can tell you, Mr. Clancy got it all wrong.  I shall now tell you how and why.<br />Mr. Clancy has no first hand knowledge of the military but he has powerful contacts (politicians and generals).  He  makes some calls and gets to look at all the latest gadgetry.   Unfortunately, the high ranking officers briefing him only show him the  best parts.  They gloss over the not so good stuff.  Clancy apparently  falls for it hook line and sinker!<br />Here are some examples.  The laser  stuff at the National Training Center doesnt work near as well as Clancy  describes.  In all of my rotations, I never had laser equipment that  worked.  Also, the idea of two training regiments and a national guard  brigade making a cohesive fighting division is ludicrous.  Finally, such a  cobbled together unit could never steamroller an Iraqi/Iranian Army ten  times its size as Clancy describes.<br />This is probably the end of the road  for me.  Unless Mr. Clancy gets back the magic he used to have.  This will  be the last of his books I will read.	2000-02-28
US	50045286	R18YM8VMV1FBM5	0140265473	219042777	Vietnam: A History	Books	2	22	32	N	N	One Sided Book about a Complex Subject	Karnow's does an excellent job in recording Vietnamese history until he hits the 20th Century.  Karnow spends lots of time criticising South Vietnamese and Free World Forces' efforts to give a part of this tragic  land a chance at freedom and proserity.  However, he glosses over or just  ignores most of the excesses and atrocities of Vietnamese Communists.  If  you buy this book, I would advise ignoring the portions dealing with the  time period of around 1919-1975.  Its just too biased in this area to be  taken seriously.	2000-02-17
US	50045286	R1AZ1EULVB5FEF	068482793X	505830594	Radical Son: A Journey Through Our Times from Left to Right	Books	5	8	14	N	N	On the Mark!	Mr. Horowitz is a high ranking defector from the Radical Left.  In this book, he reveals the blemishes, failings, and downright malignancy of the Left.<br />Dont take my word for it.  Look at the reviews here.  None of the  raters try to disprove his assertions.  Instead, they make personal  attacks. Comments like &quot;selfish&quot;, &quot;intolerance and  bigotry&quot; and &quot;extremist personality&quot;.  Me thinks they doth  protest too much!	2000-02-16
US	50045286	R126SEQIDWPCVG	0385491646	938248912	The Price of Honor	Books	3	2	7	N	N	Pedestrian	I am an avid Hackworth fan.  His previous non-fiction works were on target.  While this book is good, its a bit of a disappointment to me.<br />This is the story of Sandy Caine and his struggle to find the truth  about his father who supposedly died a coward in Vietnam.  It is set in the  very near past and the characters and events are vaguely recognizable.   There is plenty of action, the story reads well, and is technically  accurate (for the most part).<br />Still, it feels wrong.  First, the ending  is completely implausible.  Sandy and his Team members would probably be  court-martialed for assaulting and killing American civilians on American  soil as they do here.  The good Colonel does have them sanitize their  attacks, but I dont buy it.  Also, he uses the names of people in his  non-fiction books.  SSG Mayemura was a soldier killed in Hackworth's Korean  War era platoon.  Tim Grattan was another good friend of his.  He also  mentions &quot;the Nightstalker&quot; and &quot;the Gunslinger&quot; who  are Vietnam era associates of the Colonel.  As they are sort of (but not  exactly) based on the real people, it adds confusion.  <br />While, I would  recommend reading this book, I would caution everyone not to expect much.	2000-02-16
