US	50055383	R2WU95F3MQ1IJI	0760316716	248845737	Le Tour	Books	3	3	3	N	Y	Great photos, short on content.	If you want a Tour book to go on the coffee table, this would be a good choice.  It's got great photos ranging across the lifetime of the Tour and has enough written history to clue you into the major players from each era.  But as a history book, it is too short on content to be taken seriously.	2005-08-09
US	50055383	R3AWDTBC02LXY2	0007149425	805559934	Hardcore Troubadour: The Life and Near Death of Steve Earle	Books	4	6	6	N	N	A Survivor's Tale	I'm buying copies of this book for each of our kids - to show them one path through life they shouldn't even consider walking down.  Steve Earle's life story isn't really all that new.  Other artists, including numerous musicians have had difficulty with drug addiction following bouts with success in their craft.  But Earle's story is nonetheless chilling and at times painful to absorb.  The facts come crashing down like broken glass, leaving the reader to ponder just how Mr. Earle managed to survive THAT disaster.<br /><br />I gave this book four stars and in terms of literary quality, that is a generous rating.  I agree with reviewer Dale Miles's conclusion that a skilled editor could have helped significantly with the writing quality.  To be more specific, I'd have enjoyed a more in-depth analysis of Earle's music and of the music that inspired him.  I'd like to know more about his philosophical and political beliefs - simply put, I'm sure more flesh could have been put on the bones of this story.<br /><br />Aside from those criticisms, I must admit that I'm hearing Steve Earle's music from a new perspective now.  Back in real time, I'd heard of his addictions and of his battles with the music industry, but the numerous hard-luck stories revealed within Hardcore Troubador have a cumulative effect on the reader.  Now, when I think about how I reacted to his weathered appearance at the Johnny Cash CMT tribute event, it all makes more sense.  Earle's life episodes have certainly given him the blues and folk foundation from which he has drawn to create beautiful art, but I pity the man for what he's lived through in order to produce it.	2005-01-28
US	50055383	R3V9L4CV1QAKJP	080211783X	491537206	Zappa: A Biography	Books	5	6	11	N	N	Why Such Diversity of Opinion by Amazon Reviewers?	In my opinion, Barry Miles has written one of the very best Zappa bios, certainly top-five.  Initially, I was a bit perplexed by the numerous typos and other errors, but as I progressed through the book, I perceived them more along the lines of a missed note in a live performance.  I even wonder if the errors were left intentionally to mock Frank, or maybe just those hard-core Zappa freaks that have written scathing reviews here.  As numerous Amazon reviewers have pointed out, there is much to criticize in Zappa: a Biography.  But in the long run, I can only conclude that these reviewers couldn't see the forest for the trees.<br /><br />So what makes this bio so special in my mind's eye?  Simple - Barry Miles has given perspective to the social evolution Frank lived within - and he's stated clearly what part Frank played in that evolution.  Other Zappa bios have listed the many cities Franks lived in as a child, but none has placed the reader so solidly into Franks's shoes.  Miles has put the odors into the air and the sweat onto the t-shirts clinging to our armpits.  Now we know what Frank really meant when he sang \\"Stink Foot\\".<br /><br />There is something about the pace of Barry's writing that seems to match the kind of rhythm of life that spells \\"Zappa\\".  But I do not at all find \\"Zappa: A Biography\\" to be without fault even, for the moment ignoring the typos and factual errors.  One of the great strengths of this bio is that Miles has not pulled any punches.  There is a great deal of honesty within these pages and some of it might seem to show a lack respect for Frank the man.  But the simple truth is that Frank was an extremely strong willed man that was on a mission - a very long epic journey.  Frank was willing to preach \\"do as I say, not as I do\\" and in many ways, he pulled it off because his mission was a noble one, a mission of discovery and courage.  Barry Miles has fleshed out the textures and colors of Frank's mission more clearly than any other author I've read (and I've read them all, repeatedly).  The novice Zappa reader could pick up this book, Electric don Quixote and Frank's autobiography and amazingly, nearly all sides of the story would be presented.<br /><br />Assigning a rating was difficult for me - knowing that 4 stars is the correct grade, but deciding to give it 5 in a feeble attempt to offset other reviewers that seem to have over-reacted to the minutia while missing the big pictcha.author I've read (and I've read them all, repeatedly).  The novice Zappa reader could pick up this book, Electric don Quixote and Frank's autobiography and amazingly, nearly all sides of the story would be presented. <br /> <br />Assigning a rating was difficult for me - knowing that 4 stars is the correct grade, but deciding to give it 5 in a feeble attempt to offset other reviewers that seem to have over-reacted to the minutia while missing the big pictcha.	2005-01-15
US	50055383	RUM8PRE9FA5EF	0826415717	429826489	Jimi Hendrix's Electric Ladyland (Thirty Three and a Third series)	Books	4	10	12	N	N	Nicely Done But Not Definitive	I like the idea of books devoted to an individual classic album.  This is the second such book to tackle the Jimi Hendrix Experience catalog, following an equally enjoyable book about the first Experience LP.  As much as I do like this book, I feel that the author could have improved it by going into greater depth and detail.  Don't get me wrong - the focus of a small book such as this is an asset but to be successful, the focus must be deadly accurate and also must have carefully seasoned perspective.  I find too much of this book to contrast with historical facts found in Hendrix bios such as Electric Gypsy and Musician.<br />As an example, Perry states that Jimi's first manager Chas Chandler &quot;failed to appreciate the depth and ingrained nature of American racism&quot; in regards to searching out all of Jimi's previously existing recording contracts.  I'd like to see the supporting proof for that allegation, since comments by numerous people that were on the scene at the time don't seem to support it.  Chas was a fairly well-traveled and savvy guy.  Aside from Chas's appreciation (or lack of appreciation) of American racism, the reason he didn't learn about the Chalpin contract is because Jimi didn't tell him about it when asked.<br />Realize that the above is picking nits.  Perry does bring out much excellent perspective in this book, for example when he compares Eric Clapton's playing style to Jimi's.  But I do feel that the details and the &quot;apparent writing pace&quot; are what sets the great books apart from the good.  Another aspect of this book is that it's very personal.  Perry saw Jimi live numerous times and takes the reader into his memories.  After a first read, I can't say that he does so successfully, but I'll have to let the book sit a bit and give it a re-read to be fair.  For now, his depiction of these influential shows seems a bit too rushed, lacking in texture and substance.  Again, picking nits to justify not giving this book five stars.<br />If you haven't read Shadwick's Musician and want a book focused just on Electric Ladyland, then I suspect you'll enjoy this very much.  All of the key issues are discussed with sufficient detail.  But I'd certainly recommend Musician over this book because Electric Ladyland is covered extremely well in Musician, as are all aspects of Jimi's life.  It's the standard I compare every Jimi book to.ars. <br />If you haven't read Shadwick's Musician and want a book focused just on Electric Ladyland, then I suspect you'll enjoy this very much.  All of the key issues are discussed with sufficient detail.  But I'd certainly recommend Musician over this book because Electric Ladyland is covered extremely well in Musician, as are all aspects of Jimi's life.  It's the standard I compare every Jimi book to.	2004-06-04
US	50055383	RFWQC51U05OPV	0898869595	936059683	The Naked Mountain	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Finally The Truth	I've been impatiently waiting for this book to be written for decades and have a million thanks to offer Reinhold, for finally seeing this project through to completion.  In order to understand my perspective, you should realize that once upon a time, I was an armchair mountaineer, raised on classics such as Annapurna and Nanga Parbat Pilgrimage.  The latter was my introduction to the bizarre and confusing Dr. Herlingkoffer, organizer of many Himalayan expeditions, some of them among the most controversial in the history of high altitude mountaineering.  Reinhold Messner became a force to be reckoned with in the world of climbing in the '60s.  When I read of the disaster on Nanga Parbat, it was like deja vu all over again, with claims and counter-claims, lawsuits and feeling spoonfed with the official expedition account that obviously left out key facts.<br />As time passed, I didn't feel that the press treated Reinhold fairly.  I wanted to know all the facts and to hear his side of the story.  One could find snippets here and there, but his economical writing style has always been a bit cold and detached to say the least.  But I recognized the man for what he was, followed his career and read everything he wrote.  As those years passed, I kept wondering if he'd ever back up and write about the expedition that changed his life forever - with the kind of detail and insight it deserved.<br />Karl Herlingkoffer passed on a few years ago and maybe this book's appearance is linked to his death.  Regardless, it's long overdue but in a way, it was worth the wait.  Time is often required to gain insightful perspective, to dull the rough edges and to heal wounds.  The loss of his brother and  the resulting lies that condemned Reinhold to a life of controversy also gave him an incredible focus.  Clearly, he had something to prove to the mountaineering community and he proved his points well.  It's easy to point out climbers that have upped the ante after Reinhold passed his prime, but any realistic overview of the history of big, bold climbs would point to Reinhold as being a prime force in shaping the standards of today in the Himalaya and the other major ranges.  It's great to now be able to read the facts, the feelings and the aftermath as he sees it.  Absolute classic.rime, but any realistic overview of the history of big, bold climbs would point to Reinhold as being a prime force in shaping the standards of today in the Himalaya and the other major ranges.  It's great to now be able to read the facts, the feelings and the aftermath as he sees it.  Absolute classic.	2004-06-04
US	50055383	RE4K2P8IE236V	0684855437	814105693	John Elway: The Drive of a Champion	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Somewhat incomplete	Considering the wealth of information present in their archives, I would have expected more from the folks at SI for their retrospective of John Elway.  All in all, SI writers have been fair and appreciative of John's playing over the years and this book goes even farther, leaving out the worst memories and amping up the best.  It's out of print now but can usually be found on Ebay fairly easily.	2004-06-03
US	50055383	R16U108N10KIJN	1887432744	227854085	John Elway	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Excellent Perspective	This is one of the best books one can find about John Elway.  Sure, it misses much of the autobiographical details, but it gets down to business quite well, distilling John's football life into its essential components.  Its strength arises from diversity of perspective.  Not only do you hear Mike Shannahan's memories and opinions, but also Dan Reeve's and the words have a healing effect for us long term fans.  Likewise, hearing not only from key Bronco team mates but also from his rivals gives one the complete story.	2004-06-03
US	50055383	R3G1R1AVFWDHS3	140005480X	286044880	Cash	Books	5	15	16	N	N	Variety of Perspective	The value of this book is in the perspective afforded by the compilation format.  Included are chapters taken from articles formerly published in Rolling Stone magazine, chapters pulled from Johnny's autobiography and numerous other sources.  I've got all of the Rolling Stone articles but bought the book so I could have it all together in one source.  Not all of the writing is top notch, but there are plenty of gems to be found.  A generous sampling of photographs are provided also.  I'm being generous with the 5 star rating - it's probably worth a solid 4 but the subject adds a bonus in itself.	2004-05-25
US	50055383	R3GMTZX6F13XJP	0793536596	103341350	Jimi Hendrix, Guitar Signature Licks: A Step-by-Step Breakdown of His Guitar Styles and Techniques (Book & CD)	Books	4	16	17	N	N	Excellent Resource	This Signature Licks book plus CD is an excellent starting place to learn some of the tricks and stylings Jimi used when playing his tunes.  For a much higher price, you can get the Hal Leonard DVD that shows Andy Aledort playing all the songs on the album Are You Experienced - 60 bucks retail!  If you don't want to plunk down so many bucks, this is probably the place to start.  I hope you have large hands - some of Jimi's chords are virtually impossible for those of us with normal hands to play.	2004-05-14
US	50055383	R95VGLISLYHFL	0316555495	811916807	Jimi Hendrix Sessions: The Complete Studio Recording Sessions, 1963-1970	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Serviceable Resource	I'm stretchiiingg here to make it to 4 stars.  3 to 3.5 is probably more accurate.  I found the 2 stars of the previous review to be excessively harsh, so I poured on a little bit of extra love for the authors.  I simply don't find this book to be all that bad - it's a decent resource.  Had it been combined with Steven Roby's Black Gold, it would have become a bonafide winner.  Alas, instead I fear that much of the intimate details the previous reviewer yearns for has been lost into the purple haze of time - and perhaps that aspect should have been captured more clearly.  I remember reading elsewhere (Guitar Player?  Guitar?) an interview with a player on Electric Ladyland, maybe Jack Cassady.  Anyway, he mentioned that during an all-night session, the engineer fell asleep twice at the console and of the tape reel ran out while the band played on.  Apparently Jimi gave him a real chewing out the second time.  It would be nice to have more of that history, but as mobile as Jimi was on tour, he was equally mobile as a recording artist.  For the shortness of his career, he certainly recorded at a huge assortment of studios.  When you think of that, it makes it all the more reasonable to dredge up the history, with so many people involved, many of them transient and some now passed on.<br />So the bottom line is that I find this to be a pretty good book.  Not necessarly the be-all and end-all tome it might have been, but considering the time period and the circumstances, really, a decent quality, well written book.	2004-04-21
US	50055383	R16JMI9FTIPJ6Z	0306806819	498322300	Are You Experienced?: The Inside Story Of The Jimi Hendrix Experience	Books	5	20	20	N	N	Essential Perspective	I picked this up as soon as it was released in the US (which I thought was '92 but Amazon lists as '96).  The lasting impression from the first read was all about the bitterness and misfortune Noel Redding had endured during and after his tenure with the Jimi Hendrix Experience.  Since that first read, I've occasionally used it as a reference, but only for the occasional spot-check.<br />After reading the new and exceptional Jimi Hendrix: Musician by Keith Shadwick, I knew it was time to give this and other core Hendrix books a fresh look.  I'm glad I did.  The nearly continuous bitterness, which I found stifling on the first go round did not irritate as much during this re-read.  Thus I managed to get past that aspect and see more of the less obvious side of the book.  This really is essential reading for those wanting to know more about Jimi and his music.<br />Noel was a dependable diary-keeper during his Experience days and thus has helped immensely to solidify the fact base for the groups lifetime.  One one hand, you could argue that given the impressive record of substance abuse, how reliable are diary notes of the perpetually wasted and hung over but the answer is: more than historical comments made by those that weren't there.  And therein lies the true value of this book: Noel was there. Although he may have had concerns about his treatment that added to the already mountainous stress endured by an overworked band, his perspectives, like those of Mitch and Jimi, have helped to frame the picture - to put the dirt on the soles of the work shoes as it were.<br />So the bottom line is that I encourage anyone interested in the real Jimi Hendrix story to read this book (and others as well).  Sure, there is bias, but so what?  Everyone is entitled to their opinion, especially the people that were THERE.<br />Rest in peace, Noel.	2004-04-07
US	50055383	R2Y4TU1T2BFVLN	0964506408	639859511	Jimi Hendrix, Voices From Home	Books	5	6	9	N	Y	Belongs in the Upper Echelon of Hendrix Bios	This book was written by Mary Willix and published in 1995 by Creative Forces (San Diego).  I picked it up a long time ago and had big problems reading it.  It is so rich in emotion that I had problems keeping with it.  I finally got through it after months of picking it up and setting it back down, but my reading was so discontinuous that the sum effect of the book was compromised.  So I got back to it this winter and made the committment to read it without interruption.  The bottom line summary is that I consider Voices From Home to reside in the extreme upper end of the Jimi Hendrix literature - a must-have for anyone that really wants to understand what made Jimi tick.<br />Mary Willix was a childhood friend of Jimi's.  She wrote this book in her words: &quot;to settle the gut-wrenching feeling I had about his death&quot;.  In the process of writing the book, she concluded: &quot;The story of what really happened to Jimmy<br />Hendrix was more devastating than I had ever expected.  The more I found out, the more I wanted to unravel the tangled bits of misinformation.  Part of me wanted to climb the highest mountain and shout 'INJUSTICE!'&quot;.<br />Mary assembled comments from Jimi's friends and family.  The opening chapters were from two of Jimi's best friends as a young kid growing up in Seattle: Terry Johnson and Jimmy Williams.  These three met in grade school, grew up together<br />and learned to play music together in high school.  When you read the words of Mary, Terry and Jimmy, you feel their bond of friendship and love for Jimi.  This isn't some faked Andy Worhol 15 minute fame gig.  What I see in their words<br />is consistency with respect to the forces that defined Jimi's soul.  Jimi was a strongly spiritual individual and as a kid he had a huge need for love, probably due to his troubled home life.  His friends knew a sensitive, intensely creative<br />young Jimi and they truly valued their time with him.<br />People have always talked about their interpretations of Jimi's song lyrics.  In fact, I've often felt like some people went too far in their interpretations.  The comments in Voices From Home have only solidified my opinions.  Jimi's best friends repeatedly stress how Jimi loved to joke, tease and find excuses to laugh.  For example, Jimmy Williams pointed out: &quot;He could do things with a very tongue-in-cheek attitude.  Of all the people I know, Jimmy was probably one of the most fun-loving, humanitarian people I've ever met.  It all came from his attitude.  He liked to play, he loved to give people nicknames, he always saw positive things in people.&quot;<br />At the same time, they admit that Jimi was fond of symbolism, but was so private about his feelings that even they couldn't speculate about the meaning of all his words.  Jimmy Williams wrote: &quot;Contrary to what some fans think, Jimmy's most significant song is not 'Purple Haze'.  To know Jimmy, you have to look at songs like 'Straight Ahead.&quot;  Mary pointed out how Jimi wrote of freedom, unity and love and qouted a lyric that was especially meaningful to her: &quot;The best love to have is the love of life.&quot;<br />Hopefully, the above has put you into the ballpark on this book.  Rather than continue to pluck out what I see as key quotes, I'll leave that to the reader to investigate.  This book is an absolute gem.  Essential stuff for those wanting<br />to get the most out of Jimi's music.  If you want to understand why Jimi integrated blues, rock and jazz into his own Voodoo Child creation, I think you'd be better off to look here rather than any other source.  The &quot;how&quot; is probably covered better in other sources, such as Keith Shadwick's Musician, but the why is much more of a roots approach to understanding the man.  This book is as real as the dirt under your feet.interpretations of Jimi's song lyrics.  In fact, I've often felt like some people went too far in their interpretations.  The comments in Voices From Home have only solidified my opinions.  Jimi's best friends repeatedly stress how Jimi loved to joke, tease and find excuses to laugh.  For example, Jimmy Williams pointed out: &quot;He could do things with a very tongue-in-cheek attitude.  Of all the people I know, Jimmy was probably one of the most fun-loving, humanitarian people I've ever met.  It all came from his attitude.  He liked to play, he loved to give people nicknames, he always saw positive things in people.&quot; <br />At the same time, they admit that Jimi was fond of symbolism, but was so private about his feelings that even they couldn't speculate about the meaning of all his words.  Jimmy Williams wrote: &quot;Contrary to what some fans think, Jimmy's most significant song is not 'Purple Haze'.  To know Jimmy, you have to look at songs like 'Straight Ahead.&quot;  Mary pointed out how Jimi wrote of freedom, unity and love and qouted a lyric that was especially meaningful to her: &quot;The best love to have is the love of life.&quot; <br />Hopefully, the above has put you into the ballpark on this book.  Rather than continue to pluck out what I see as key quotes, I'll leave that to the reader to investigate.  This book is an absolute gem.  Essential stuff for those wanting <BR>to get the most out of Jimi's music.  If you want to understand why Jimi integrated blues, rock and jazz into his own Voodoo Child creation, I think you'd be better off to look here rather than any other source.  The &quot;how&quot; is probably covered better in other sources, such as Keith Shadwick's Musician, but the why is much more of a roots approach to understanding the man.  This book is as real as the dirt under your feet.	2004-03-10
US	50055383	R3VQIGDIEBE7LQ	1556524714	679397816	Jimi Hendrix and the Making of Are You Experienced (The Vinyl Frontier series)	Books	4	4	4	N	Y	A Bit Paradoxical But Still More Than Worthwhile	This book was written by Sean Egan and was published in 2002 by A Capppella books as part of a series called &quot;Vinyl Frontier&quot;.  I've had it a while and initially just thumbed through it for flavor, then recently went through it cover to cover.<br />I found this book to a bit paradoxical at times, but with enough merit to recommend its purchase to those into Jimi's music or the history of rock in general.  Egan conducted numerous interviews that I haven't found published anywhere previous to this book and the key there is he asked some fresh questions that gave answers to similar questions I've had for some time.  For example, Lonnie Youngblood gives interesting perspectve on Jimi the musician in the pre-Experience days.  Likewise, the comments by Linda Keith on those exciting days the cusp of Jimi's discovery are illuminating.<br />Historical perspective is generally excellent, although not exhaustive.  This book focuses on AYE and does not bother with historical trivia that does not bear on this album in some direct manner.  Once we are brought to the recordings made in late '66 and '67 that became singles and album tracks for AYE, the mostly chronological approach is effective.  This fleshes out the differences between the British Track and US Reprise releases effectively, even if Egan's opinions might not agree perfectly with mine.<br />The technological aspects of these recordings are given some discussion, but not necessarily an exhaustive one from a technotweak perspective.  However, the discussion of how the technology was used as a musical research tool and its final effect on the music was given excellent treatment.  For example, the discussion of 3rd Stone from the Sun was very entertaining.  I particularly enjoyed his mention of people playing their album at 78 rpm to flesh out the vocals that were patched in at half speed.  See, people were mining for hidden snippets back there in real time and I'm not the only one to say so!<br />Now for the more confusing aspects: The back cover starts by talking about albums that are so extrordinary that they influence generations of inspiring artists, yada, yada.  Yes, AYE certainly fits that mold, maybe even shatters it to bits requiring a remolding job for all that follow.  The problem comes when one reads the last chapter, titled: &quot;The Songs&quot;.  Herein we are treated to what I consider to be overly harsh criticisms of too many of these songs - such that I'm surprised that Egan considers AYE to be worthy of classic status.  Three of the British Track LP tracks, I Don't Live Today, 3rd Stone From The Sun and Are You Experienced receive criticisms that I disagree with, and do so strongly.  Those are three of my all-time favorites!  Don't get me wrong - I enjoy diversity and respect the opinions of others regardless of how flawed they in<br />fact are, but this last chapter left me wondering if Egan might have been in a bit of a rush to finish the project off?  His writing here is on average less colorful and insightful than the rest of the book and due to the subject matter - the music itself - it sticks out like a sore thumb.  But I still strongly recommend this book, without reservation.he more confusing aspects: The back cover starts by talking about albums that are so extrordinary that they influence generations of inspiring artists, yada, yada.  Yes, AYE certainly fits that mold, maybe even shatters it to bits requiring a remolding job for all that follow.  The problem comes when one reads the last chapter, titled: &quot;The Songs&quot;.  Herein we are treated to what I consider to be overly harsh criticisms of too many of these songs - such that I'm surprised that Egan considers AYE to be worthy of classic status.  Three of the British Track LP tracks, I Don't Live Today, 3rd Stone From The Sun and Are You Experienced receive criticisms that I disagree with, and do so strongly.  Those are three of my all-time favorites!  Don't get me wrong - I enjoy diversity and respect the opinions of others regardless of how flawed they in <BR>fact are, but this last chapter left me wondering if Egan might have been in a bit of a rush to finish the project off?  His writing here is on average less colorful and insightful than the rest of the book and due to the subject matter - the music itself - it sticks out like a sore thumb.  But I still strongly recommend this book, without reservation.	2004-03-02
US	50055383	R24R9NJDAND2IV	0966785711	644753898	My Son Jimi (Book)	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Essential Perspective	For years, while reading conflicting opinions by numerous authors of all things Jimi, it seemed natural to wonder what Jimi's dad would have had to say about it.  Fortunately, rather than sit back and wonder about it, Jas Obrecht worked with Al Hendrix to get the story told.  Of all people, Jimi's father surely had an important story to tell, from a vital perspective - that being the family anchor throughout most of Jimi's often scattered childhood.<br />&quot;My Son Jimi&quot; is a tender yet objective look into the life of a uniquely gifted soul.  The childhood personality traits that Al reveals sync well with what we know of the adult Jimi.  With so much known about nearly every breath of his life once he became famous, it's refreshing to hear so many stories and details of Jimi's early days and the events that influenced his view of the world.  Al's memory was obviously sharp, as evidenced by the depth of chronological details and his ability to wrap the up-close human perspective into those details.  For example, in describing the lean years when money was tight, Al was forced to move from place to place and chase employment opportunities.  Al closes the history loop by describing the impact these events had on young Jimi.  Likewise, the descriptions of home life when Jimi's mother Lucille was living elsewhere, often with other men, are treated with respect to all, allowing as much dignity to be preserved as possible, even in very undignified circumstances.  These touches add a healthy coating of reality and personality that can never be touched upon by an author merely reporting a historical perspective.<br />I found Al's descriptions of Jimi's music illuminating and intriguing.  Obviously, Al was proud of his son's accomplishments, but was still able to hear the music for what it was, with open ears.  I believe that his need to be honest and realistic was a key component leading to the success of Experience Hendrix once the family had acquired the Hendrix legacy.  Look at it this way - for decades, Alan Douglas had been the caretaker of Jimi's music and although I don't think he was deserving of all of the hateful criticism he received, I do believe he was a puppet in the machine that turned its head away from Jimi's clearly stated intentions of where his music was headed.  Al listened to Jimi, for example Jimi's eagerness to work with and appreciation of Eddie Kramer and Al then brought Eddie into the fold to help move the music in the right direction.  This was no mistake - it was action motivated by love.<br />Al's prose is not particularly colorful, nor embellished - instead he speaks economically, to the point and from the heart.  This may lead some to criticize this book unfairly, but I believe that the content, honesty and perspective Al has brought forth make My Son Jimi essential reading for those interested in learning the true story of Jimi Hendrix.acy.  Look at it this way - for decades, Alan Douglas had been the caretaker of Jimi's music and although I don't think he was deserving of all of the hateful criticism he received, I do believe he was a puppet in the machine that turned its head away from Jimi's clearly stated intentions of where his music was headed.  Al listened to Jimi, for example Jimi's eagerness to work with and appreciation of Eddie Kramer and Al then brought Eddie into the fold to help move the music in the right direction.  This was no mistake - it was action motivated by love.<br />Al's prose is not particularly colorful, nor embellished - instead he speaks economically, to the point and from the heart.  This may lead some to criticize this book unfairly, but I believe that the content, honesty and perspective Al has brought forth make My Son Jimi essential reading for those interested in learning the true story of Jimi Hendrix.	2004-02-09
US	50055383	R3V38V2WUPYVWY	1560255374	228748414	Jimi Hendrix: Voodoo Child: The Stories Behind Every Song	Books	3	9	10	N	Y	I Was Hoping For More	My 3 star rating isn't really a put-down.  3.5 is probably more accurate.  The overall content and presentation are fine and there's alot of useful information in here.  My problem with it is that I'd hoped to read a bunch of stuff I'd never seen elsewhere.  But in fact, I didn't find much of anything that I hadn't already read elsewhere.  Of the stuff that is here, some isn't even as detailed as you'll find in other books like Setting The Record Straight or Shadwick's Musician.	2004-01-23
US	50055383	RASFSGNK3PYXC	0634049305	717605988	Jimi Hendrix - The Lyrics	Books	5	10	12	N	Y	Beautiful Package	I like the look and feel of this book.  Loads of excellent photos, page after page of lyrics, wonderful paper used, all lovingly assembled.  In the past, I haven't really searched out the written lyrix to Jimi's tunes very often, and in reading these, I came across a few surprises.  That's not really surprising, because many tunes were released after his death and of those, no doubt some had only a working vocal track that probably would have been re-recorded had he lived.  As an example, the lyrics to Hey Baby.  So I found myself pulling out disc after disc to listen intently to hear the words I'd missed previously.  In some instances, the words in my mind sounded closer than those in the book.  Some of the book lyrics are reproductions of Jimi's handwritten lyric sheets, so those are about as definative as it gets.  Also, I have a nit to pick and that is how Amazon portrays Janie Hendrix as a co-author.  If I remember right, the book gives her credit as compiler.<br />The bottom line is hinted at above - reading this book will motivate you to play the music and listen to the words.  That's not a bad thing!  In fact, the sum total Experience of it all is most excellent.  Where did those Easter Eggs get off to?	2004-01-13
US	50055383	R30E07A8PCCOJW	037575640X	81076748	The Mountains of My Life (Modern Library Exploration)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Driven To The Extreme	The Mountains Of My Life is such a dense and intense work that even the experienced alpine climber is likely to slip into a stupor while reading of Walter Bonatti's incredible climbs.  The only solution is to plan on reading it twice.  Otherwise, you can expect to miss some of the subtlety in Walter's economical writing style.  I can now claim to have followed my own advice.<br />One can read here many details of the big climbs Bonatti did in the Alps and only get a hint of the level of suffering, fear and intensity of the experience, even though the text focuses much on just those aspects.  Only by going out onto the big alpine walls and experiencing those emotions yourself can you expect to have even the slightest clue as to just how understated The Mountains Of My Life really is.  But that's still only an approximation unless you climbed routes such as these back in the day, using the primitive gear that Walter and his partners had - and then only if your ethical stance was as strict as theirs.  These dudes had mondo cajones, to say the least.<br />But you don't need to trust me - I've never climbed anything of significance.  But would you dare not trust the opinions of Reinhold Messner and Doug Scott?  Go read what they have to say about Walter's climbs.  Then sit back and imagine what it was like to solo big routes back then.  I've done just enough soloing to understand just how much more of a mental game it is.<br />I can't forget to mention how important Robert Marshall's role was in this book.  Not only did he translate, but he played a key detective role in the K2 controversy.  Once one has fully digested what transpired on the hill, then after, then one can begin to better understand just how driven Bonatti was, and why.  This is an incredible story, but it is also incredibly sad to think how horribly one person can treat another.  Even pursuits such as climbing are victim to those that are dishonest and apparently without a conscious. Clearly, evil men are capable of much greater evil when acting to conspire.  I for one was happy to see all of the details of K2 be brought to the forefront, to have the liars exposed and for the truth to finally have its day.<br />The next to last chapter is the true gem of this book.  Years after retiring from extreme mountaineering, Walter climbed a route on Mt. Blanc solo.  The description of the landscape, the place and the space in this chapter are truly incredible.  The reader is transported, smelling the air, sensing the dangers and feeling the coarse granite on the palm.  This chapter is a true high point inmountaineering literature.  I wonder if this writing was only possible after the wounds of the K2 debacle had adequate time to heal?e capable of much greater evil when acting to conspire.  I for one was happy to see all of the details of K2 be brought to the forefront, to have the liars exposed and for the truth to finally have its day.<br />The next to last chapter is the true gem of this book.  Years after retiring from extreme mountaineering, Walter climbed a route on Mt. Blanc solo.  The description of the landscape, the place and the space in this chapter are truly incredible.  The reader is transported, smelling the air, sensing the dangers and feeling the coarse granite on the palm.  This chapter is a true high point inmountaineering literature.  I wonder if this writing was only possible after the wounds of the K2 debacle had adequate time to heal?	2003-12-09
US	50055383	R2UIQUP5UB30JM	0752827251	570888663	Through Gypsy Eyes Hendrix	Books	5	23	25	N	N	A Survivor Pulls No Punches	Not long after arriving in London in 1966, Jimi Hendrix met Kathy Etchingham and was immediately smitten.  Before long, the two were living together.  Through Gypsy Eyes tells the story of their relationship and provides a window into the past of one of rock's most important innovators.  A significant part of the book deals with Kathy's broken family during her childhood and although these chapters might seem a bit superfluous initially, eventually we see how her upbringing and his were so similar and no doubt helped them to see much of life through the same pair of gypsy eyes.<br />The most intense period of their time together is described in vivid detail and it fills in important voids left by other Hendrix biographers.  But this time was relatively short and as Jimi evolved into a superstar, they began to slowly grow apart.  Kathy even saw Jimi walking through London the day before he died, but by that point, they were no longer speaking.  Kathy tells the story like it was and pulls no punches.  Like a street-wise kid, she is an author that is unafraid of the truth.  Her treatment of the debilitating effects of drug abuse on the bright young people of the late 60's is sad but enlightening and points clearly towards Jimi's death.  I thank her for writing about the hard times in such a straightforward manner.  Jimi no doubt would have wanted it that way.	2003-12-09
US	50055383	R33LTRHUSKUX25	0938294318	959624507	Jimi Hendrix: Starchild	Books	4	4	7	N	Y	A Part of the Puzzle	There are many biographies available of Jimi Hendrix, most of them written from a unique perspective.  Starchild is no different in that respect, giving us one man's look into Jimi's life before and after he made it big.  Curtis Knight has written a book that has historical value, but the writing style is relatively bland and at times tends to embellish the author as much as the subject.  If this were the sole basis for the rating, I'd have given the book one or two stars at most.  I've bumped the composite score up to 4 stars because, although this is not an engaging read stylistically, there is plenty of meaty substance included here and it provides a piece of the puzzle that's not available anywhere else.  When you couple what's written here with the music the two put on tape, it provides a key part of the Hendrix mosiac.<br />The student of all things Hendrix must sort conflicting information at times, for example, regarding the details of Jimi's death, but Starchild is not really all that controversial.  It's a pity that Curtis didn't take the time to dig a little deeper, to document the months prior to Jimi's departure for England in '66.  Jimi played and recorded with Curtis Knight and the Squires, but he also played with his own band which was named Jimmy James and the Blue Flames.  This was the band seen by Chas Chandler, the man that took Jimi to England and did more than any other to get his career going.  I'd be interested to know much more about Jimi's musical development while playing with these two bands - more about the people involved and more about the technology.  For example, some credit Frank Zappa with educating Jimi on the subtleties of controlling feedback, which Jimi then took to new levels.  It would be interesting to have more views on this exciting period of Jimi's music.<br />In summary, this is a worthwhile source for the hardcore Hendrix reader, but if you just want one book, you could consider the encyclopedic Electric Gypsy, or (better in my opinion) Musician, bu Keith Chadwick.er in my opinion) Musician, bu Keith Chadwick.	2003-12-01
US	50055383	R2PAEZ2Z8CWH68	0028608364	352730357	Jimi Hendrix: The Ultimate Experience	Books	5	3	7	N	N	A Tad Bit Commercial ?	The release of this book coincided with a big promotional push by Jimi's heirs and some people use this as proof that it's all drivel written by those trying to once again capitalize on the Hendrix legacy.  Wait a minute - I thought all of the music, books, memorabelia, etc., were being sold to cash in on Jimi?  Actually, this is a nice package, although it's no competition for the very best books out there, either from the perspective of photography or history, but it was lovingly assembled and lavishly decorated.  Certainly, it is worthwhile for the Hendrix collector, especially considering how inexpensively it can be had as a used purchase from amazon or on ebay.	2003-12-01
US	50055383	R2STWR55BXK7F0	051757716X	262627681	Jimi Hendrix: Inside The Experience	Books	4	12	12	N	N	I Expected More Experiences	First off, I'll tell you what I think is good about this book.  It is loaded with historical details from the heyday of Jimi's career.  There are numerous comments that give life to the incredibly hectic touring and recording career which went a long way towards sapping the life from one of rock music's most creative forces.  It's easy to look back at Jimi's life and see how the business contributed to the situations surrounding his death but back then, it seems, life was just a blur.  In this regard, perhaps Mitch Mitchell has just given us an honest account of the time, because Inside The Experience does not seem to be as full of introspection as I'd expected.  I would have been tempted to give this book three stars had I written the review back when the book was published. However, I just re-read it and now see that Mitchell's treatment, while not capable of inspiring much deep thought in the reader, does appear to be somehow proper in that it shows how difficult it must have been to have any semblence of coherent thought while living in the pop vortex.  Here's to hoping that Mitch will someday take this book as a template to start from, then really dig deep into his inner being to tell more clearly what it felt like from his perspective, not only during the Experience's heyday, but also afterwards, when the glow receded and his new reality came into focus.	2003-12-01
US	50055383	RS5ZJASSTCYQQ	0711994366	37390149	Electric Don Quixote: The Definitive Story Of Frank Zappa	Books	5	69	72	N	Y	Thought Provoking Bio - The Best So Far	Those familiar with the life and music of Frank Zappa might conclude that Neil Slaven has explained Conceptual Continuity better than Frank ever did.  Slaven has written a masterpiece biography of one of the most difficult personalities to ever stir the stew of artful politicosociology.  Other Zappa biographies, even that written by Frank himself, come across as dry and disorganized in comparison to Electric Don Quixote.  Slaven's analysis seems even-handed to me and is far from being the drippings of a starry-eyed Zappa fan.  Punches are not pulled, but then again, praise is dealt out when deserved.<br />Compared to other sources of all things Zappa, Electric Don Quixote is like a spotlight that illuminates not only the facts and chronology, but also the mood and mentality surrounding Frank and the key individuals in his immediate circle.  I'm reminded of how much a step forward the new Jimi Hendrix biography (Musician, by Keith Shadwick) is in comparison to the competition.  Musician takes the reader into the musical mind of Hendrix and Electric Don Quixote does the same for Zappa, except that Frank's years in the industry were longer, his story more complex, his art less popularly appreciated and his psyche far more difficult to analyze.  But Slaven was up to the challenge and we are all the richer for his ability and dedication.<br />As good as Electric Don Quixote is, I do not consider it adequate to stand completely on its own.  It stands on the shoulders of past Zappa bios and without reading at least one or two of them, the reader might lose the sublety Slaven has incorporated.  I'd recommend &quot;No Commercial Potential&quot; and &quot;The Real Frank Zappa Book&quot; as possible starting places.  These other books provide factual detail, such as info about Frank's settlement with Warner Brothers that could and probably should have been discussed more clearly in Electric Don Quixote.<br />I'll also warn that the reader is in for a long ride because, as the years pass, this hardcore fan has witnessed the evolution of Zappa's impact.  The body of work is so immense and so dense, that it must be digested sequentially, with periodic rest breaks, then the process restarted anew.  Zappa's art is like a perrineal flower that slowly mutates over time, reemerging the next spring, or even in winter with newly discovered clues and perspectives.  Thanks to Neil Slaven for shining the spotlight in a way that illuminates previously darkened corridors.years pass, this hardcore fan has witnessed the evolution of Zappa's impact.  The body of work is so immense and so dense, that it must be digested sequentially, with periodic rest breaks, then the process restarted anew.  Zappa's art is like a perrineal flower that slowly mutates over time, reemerging the next spring, or even in winter with newly discovered clues and perspectives.  Thanks to Neil Slaven for shining the spotlight in a way that illuminates previously darkened corridors.	2003-11-17
US	50055383	R1Y528D09CDME7	0879307641	612331249	Jimi Hendrix Musician	Books	5	17	22	N	Y	Getting Inside Jimi's Musical Mind	So much has been written about Jimi Hendrix, do we really need another full length book?  Fortunately, the answer is a resounding &quot;yes&quot;!  Keith Shadwick has given us a fresh perspective on Hendrix, one that took this reader on a bit of a travel through time.  What we've been missing all these years is a comprehensive source that cuts out all of the superfluous junk and gets down to that which was real, at that time - how it affected the music and how the music affected it.<br />Electric Gypsy (Harry Shapiro) is an excellent book in that it has the bulk of the factual information on Jimi's life, maybe even too much information.  But, in its quest for all things encyclopedic, it seemed to miss out on the spirit of the time that Jimi lived in.  Setting The Record Straight (Eddie Karmer and John McDermott) partially bridged this chasm, by taking the reader into not only the studio where Jimi and his bandmates laid down the tracks, but into Jimi's musical mind - the kinds of sounds he wanted to find, where he thought his music could go in the future.  In short, it took us into some of Jimi's dreams.  Between these two extremes, one can find much middle ground, most of it far more towards the Electric Gypsy camp.  To get closer to the man himself and the realities of the world as it was when he was making his mark, one was almost better off searching out vintage magazines, such as Guitar World, Rolling Stone, etc.<br />But now we have Jimi Hendrix: Musician.  The changes brought on by the simple realities of Jimi's musical life are given perspective in this book fare more completely than ever before.  We are given glimpses of the journey and not just a facimile of the final destination.  And those glimpses provide color so we can see more clearly how difficult it must have been to endure the musician's life back when Jimi was starving.  Not only that, we can share in the joy of the good times and also the frustrations Jimi felt when all was not well during his last years.<br />Jimi's musical tenure was rooted right in the middle of the most incredible of times, when social change moved music and music attempted to cause social change.  Many authors have struggled to put the reader into that space and time, but Keith Sedgewick has managed to sail those waters brilliantly.last years.<br />Jimi's musical tenure was rooted right in the middle of the most incredible of times, when social change moved music and music attempted to cause social change.  Many authors have struggled to put the reader into that space and time, but Keith Sedgewick has managed to sail those waters brilliantly.	2003-11-12
US	50055383	RWMVP7VJRCVBD	140106907X	977875181	Decades of Dioxin	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Excellent Scientific Perspective	First, I'll address the first review.  It is blatantly incorrect and misleading.  Warren Crummett was the managing scientist in Dow's environmental research area from the late '70's until his retirement.  This book was not rushed out in response to the flood.  This book has been in the making for many decades.  The flood did not cause contamination of the river by 2378TCDD.  The data is in the public record - just read it!<br />Now, to the review:<br />This book is a refreshing look at science in the commercial world we live in today.  The writing style is unusual, providing the reader with snapshots spaced throughout the evolution not only of Warren's life and career, but through the political evolution of industrial environmental contamination and toxicology.  The reader is introduced to the meaning of environmental contamination and toxicology and just how ludicrously our laws have evolved.<br />For example, the measurement of parts-per-quadrillion levels of 2378-TCDD are required currently for wastewater at industrial sites such as Dow.  The text brings these numbers into clear perspective and shows that, if one can analyze to this exceedingly low limit, that trillions of unique chemical species can be detected in what is considered to be clean drinking water!<br />Decades of Dioxin was completed well afer Warren's retirement.  To stereotype it as was done in the first review involves the same degree of misguided environmental paranoia that led to so many ill-informed government regulations that are in place today.	2003-10-06
US	50055383	R2IMVFTT4YNTG8	087930653X	989966788	All Music Guide to Rock: The Definitive Guide to Rock, Pop, and Soul (3rd Edition)	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Excellent Resource	If you're into rock trivia or just have the need to know more detail, this is an excellent source.  It is not fully encyclopedic, missing many albums found in other books, such as the Rolling Stone Encyclopedia of Rock.  The writing is generally very good to excellent and doesn't lean into the overly opinionated, a fault with the Rolling Stone book.  At the back of the book, there is a section covering the evolution of rock music that is very informative.  It includes recommended recordings for many genres.  Another minor point - some of the album release dates in this book are incorrect.	2003-09-23
US	50055383	R365IUOR7JNFYO	1569244782	599938775	The New Glucose Revolution Complete Guide to Glycemic Index Values	Books	4	59	62	N	Y	More, Please	What we need is more.  More specific results, more numbers for foods available in the US, more specific name-brand items, more, more, much more.  Yes, I realize that research is time-consuming and expensive.  I realize this is the best available resource.  But we need more...<br />Just for fun, you should read the South Beach Diet book for contrast.  This book (NGR) looks to me to have a more balanced, long term approach whereas the SBD seems to be focused on those that want fast results.  Following the NGR guidelines, it seems like I eat more than I used to and am full more often, but I've lost 30 pounds over the last 4 months.	2003-09-08
US	50055383	R3NJ5CQHHTD3OQ	082307854X	300064690	Black Gold: The Lost Archives of Jimi Hendrix	Books	5	4	6	N	Y	Getting to the Heart of the Matter	Steven Roby has written a masterful account of Jimi Hendrix's recorded legacy.  Black Gold is an essential resource for the dedicated Hendrix collector, and is also a great read that would interest anyone who loves Jimi's music.  It is the difinitive history of one of rock's leading legends, delving deeply into the recordings he made, and into the man himself.  By including quotes made by Jimi and his peers, Roby's unique perspective has illuminated aspects of Jimi's musical life that had previously been shrouded in darkness and shadow.<br />Roby presented himself with a nearly impossible task, which required talking to musicians, associates, friends and family about the past, then attempting to separate myth from fact when discrepancies arose.  It may not be possible to uncover the whole truth, but Black Gold cuts two or three layers deeper into Hendrix's recordings and claims about it, than any previous account.	2003-09-08
US	50055383	ROW9EFP8QBYOR	1579546463	191099180	THE SOUTH BEACH DIET The Delicious, Doctor-Designed, Foolproof Plan for Fast and Healthy Weight Loss	Books	4	7	9	N	N	Good in Concept, Flawed in Some Details	The basic principles of the South Beach Diet (SBD) are fairly sound: minimize high glycemic index (GI) foods, minimize saturated fats, watch your portions of low GI foods and get adequate protein.  The book is well written and easy to read for the layperson.  Some of the recipes are excellent, others tend to the boring side in my opinion.  Overall, if you're looking to change your diet and want to find something you can live with long term, the SBD isn't a bad place to start.<br />But there are minor problems with some of the specifics in the book, such as the GI values for certain foods like carrots.  And I don't understand why the author used the old way (white bread as reference) rather than that currently accepted (glusose reference).  I'm guessing that GI values from the early 80s were used in the writing of this book, but there are much more accurate and thorough sources available today, such as &quot;The New Glucose Revolution&quot;.  Nevertheless, one could easily formulate a sound diet plan using the SBD, assuming fats were kept to a reasonable level.<br />My major beef with the SBD is the first 2 weeks of the plan.  I feel that limiting carbs so much isn't needed and can be unhealthy.  I suspect that this fairly radical first two week plan is there to give people hope.  By starving the system of carbs, people will deplete their glycogen stores and in the process lose quite a bit of water, resulting in rapid weight loss.  a better plan is to be patient and gravitate towards the right balance of foods, avoiding high GI items and saturated fat.	2003-08-27
US	50055383	RVMAEOY6VHTCW	1572435992	620403939	Pojo's Unofficial Yu-Gi-Oh! Guide to Labyrinth of Nightmare	Books	4	0	0	N	Y	Excellent resource	I'd actually give this one:<br />4.5 stars.<br />This book updates Pojo's Yugioh beta up through the Labrynth of Nightmare (LON) card set.  Most of the book is dedicated to a thorough review of LON, including card-by-card reviews.  For folks looking for hints on deck construction, these reviews are quite valuable.  Along these lines, the Killer Decks article gives specific recommendations for constructing theme-specific decks.  Over all, the content of this book is excellent and should be especially helpful to beginner and intermediate duelists.<br />The graphic quality of the book is mostly excellent.  Some of the card reproductions are poor, but most are clear enough to read the card effect descriptions.  The only other aspect that keeps me from giving it 5 stars is that I'd just like to see more and I'd like these to be out sooner.  I need to see the same treatment for the new Legacy of Darkness set - and I need it now!  Great job by the Pojo staff.	2003-07-07
US	50055383	R23F5U1C90BJ9Y	089886898X	719471630	Climbing: Training for Peak Performance (Outdoor Expert)	Books	4	12	14	N	Y	Fill's Out The Climber's Training Bookshelf	Clyde has done an excellent job of taking on the strength and endurance issues relative to climbing.  You won't find the technique focus of other successful climbing instructionals such as Performance Rock Climbing or Flash Training, but you will find much solid background for developing depth and background in your aerobic and anaerobic programs.  Much good reference information is included also.	2003-05-01
US	50055383	R1KCR9J4GSDT5E	0898867630	129050608	Kiss or Kill: Confessions of a Serial Climber	Books	4	24	24	N	Y	Very Twight	Long, long ago, I saw Mark give a show in Boulder.  It was laced with profanity and although it was entertaining at times, it was also so dependant upon proving that Mark was different, better, more intense and more... Twight, than any of us could ever be, and ultimately, that made the whole seem less than the sum of the parts.  Over the years, I've read his articles and have seen more of his talks, all of which were a testament to the Mellowing of Mark.  Yes, he has mellowed, but that is not to suggest that he is mellow.<br />Kiss or Kill has a similar flavor to it, showing the change of Dr. Doom over time and place.  I found it extremely funny, extremely sad, extremely entertaining and sometimes extremely overcooked.  In short, extremely Twight.  It belongs on any committed climber's bookshelf.	2003-05-01
US	50055383	R1MODIG095C2CE	0898865743	21241024	The Crystal Horizon: Everest-The First Solo Ascent	Books	5	8	10	N	N	A Diamond In The Rough	This book is truly a mountaineering masterpiece, but it might not seem so to those unaccustomed to Messner's writing style.  Much appears to be lost in the translation to any English first-time reader.  But I've read nearly all of his books and have learned how to soak it all in.  Hidden in the sometimes laborious writings are crystal-clear windows into Reinhold's experiences and thoughts.  His solo, oxygenless ascent is generally considered one of the most impressive events in mountaineering history.  Considering that the ascent was undertaken during the monsoon makes it all that much more incredible.	2003-05-01
US	50055383	R31SK88X8LZTLD	076271168X	163809258	Climb On! Skills for More Efficient Climbing (How To Climb Series)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Climb On Quickly!	This is a great resource and the presentation of material is excellent.  Bill and Hans are part of the growing breed of speed climbers - people that have busy lives and search to do more in less time.  Speed climbing brings more risk to the equation and this book helps one to make the right decisions in a wide variety of circumstances.  Some may feel that speed climbing takes away from the &quot;stop and smell the roses&quot; attitude, but the truth is, when one learns to be efficient, there is more time available for relaxing activities.  Or, as Bill and Hans do, more time to climb more routes.  This book is a classic and is a cornerstone of instructional climbing literature.  I read it cover to cover in 38 minutes and 43 seconds.  Is that a record?	2003-04-08
US	50055383	R16GY9ER8M99MR	0830616969	752734555	Acoustic Techniques for Home and Studio	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Useful Resource	This book is an excellent starting place for those interested in improving the sound quality of their listening room.  The fundmentals of sound are presented in the context of a typical home listening room or small studio.  Methods to control resonance, isolate exterior noise sources and to diffuse and trap source music sound are discussed, with examples of the construstion of devices within the capability of many moderately skilled homeowners.  I have successfully applied a few of these ideas into my home listening room.	2003-01-28
US	50055383	R3CX0HT63C7FLH	0393049817	746493410	Climbing Free: My Life in the Vertical World	Books	5	17	17	N	N	Outstanding Autobiography	This is one of the very best climbing autobiographies I've read.<br />6 Stars.<br />First off, I'll admit that I'm biased towards Lynn Hill.  I met her in the early 80's and was taken by her unassuming, humble nature, let alone her incredible climbing prowess.  But my bias has not interfered with my ability to give an honest review.<br />This book was co-authored by Greg Child, one of my favorite climbing authors, but I'm guessing that Lynn's words formed the core of the book.  It just doesn't read like Greg's other books.  Regardless, the two must have an excellent synergy going because the book is enjoyable and very readable.<br />As do all good autobiographies, this book goes well beyond the boring chronological list of events.  It takes you into the life and mind of Lynn Hill and lets you see what makes her tick.  Lynn chose to treat difficult situations in a straightforward, honest manner.  Few punches are pulled, but it's obvious that there is no malicious intent.  Lynn merely states the facts as she saw them, then goes the extra mile to tell us how these events made her feel.  In doing so, difficult times, such as divorce or leaving the competitive arena are taken full circle and we see how, through her ability to adapt, Lynn was able to move on and grow from her experiences.<br />One knows that people who repeatedly achieve at a high level have something good going for them and this book makes it clear that Lynn is no exception.  Her ability to get into the proper mental state for difficult climbing is clearly conveyed.  For example, while preparing to climb the Nose in a day, she wrote:<br />&quot;While lying on the ledge in a half-asleep state, I thought about the various people who inspired me throughout my life.  These thoughts helped me cultivate the faith and energy I needed to persevere.  For me, the ascent represented a kind of performance art to demonstrate the values I believed in.  My belief in this effort is what allowed me to access a force of energy much greater than my own.  I thought of what I had learned from a seventy year old Chinese Chi Gong master whom I had met in France earlier that year during a martial arts workshop.  At the end of the weekend, this Chinese master asked me to arm wrestle him.  As hard as I tried, our hands remained upright and locked in an impasse.  Then he asked me what I was thinking about.  I told him I was concentrating on bringing my hand down to the table.  When I asked him what he was thinking about, he said he was focusing way beyond the table, toward an infinite source of energy.  I noticed that his eyes were transfixed into space as if in a trance and I felt an inpenetrable wall of force in his arm.  Afterward, we discussed my goal to free climb the Nose in a day and he said: 'When you are on the wall, try to imagine a source of energy that extends beyond the summit towards infinity.' &quot;<br />This book is full of motivational insight and should be a valuable resource for anyone that wants to move beyond preconceived limits in their everyday life.nergy much greater than my own.  I thought of what I had learned from a seventy year old Chinese Chi Gong master whom I had met in France earlier that year during a martial arts workshop.  At the end of the weekend, this Chinese master asked me to arm wrestle him.  As hard as I tried, our hands remained upright and locked in an impasse.  Then he asked me what I was thinking about.  I told him I was concentrating on bringing my hand down to the table.  When I asked him what he was thinking about, he said he was focusing way beyond the table, toward an infinite source of energy.  I noticed that his eyes were transfixed into space as if in a trance and I felt an inpenetrable wall of force in his arm.  Afterward, we discussed my goal to free climb the Nose in a day and he said: 'When you are on the wall, try to imagine a source of energy that extends beyond the summit towards infinity.' &quot;<br />This book is full of motivational insight and should be a valuable resource for anyone that wants to move beyond preconceived limits in their everyday life.	2002-05-10
US	50055383	R2YXHHF70B4QKW	0806917555	623930649	The Thai Massage Manual: Natural Therapy for Flexibility, Relaxation and Energy Balance	Books	4	5	6	N	Y	Easy To Read With Excellent Graphics	4.5 Stars<br />Maria Mercati has done an excellent job of bringing Thai massage to neophytes such as myself.  The text is very readable and it tends to put the reader into the proper, relaxed state of mind.  The bodywork shown within really works and is not difficult to learn.  I just wish for more: more history and more exercises.  This is an excellent, inexpensive resource.	2002-02-27
US	50055383	R2D91B15YKN8M5	0805412174	233469453	The Heart of Hebrew History: A Study of the Old Testament	Books	4	7	7	N	Y	Excellent Historical Resource	Hester's book is fortunately back in print.  It was written for college students and is an excellent resource.  It is not an exhaustive text - many times the author states the disclaimer that a topic is too involved to go into in detail, but this is not a serious drawback.  Certainly the map quality is adequate but modern maps are a significant improvement.  The coverage of the archaeology of the area is entertaining and rich in information.  For the reader desiring to learn the history of the Hebrew people during this time period, this book is a good buy.	2002-02-26
US	50055383	RMRA4BU6W8Y5F	0842328939	342072403	John (Life Application Bible Commentary)	Books	5	15	15	N	N	Excellent Resource	The gospel of John is not a simple book, therefore interpreters of the text have their work cut out for them.  The authors of this text have done a fine job of fleshing out the meaning of the scriptures.  For example, many times within John, Jesus is described as the Son of God, the Lamb of God, the Light of God, the Mesiah, etc., and Christ's own words include difficult to understand quotes such as &quot;I am&quot;.  The man/spirit duality is discussed at length and with different perspectives to illuminate and clarify this difficult situation.<br />The book uses three different methods of organization to the text.  The bulk of the text includes quotes rom the Bible, followed by interpretive text.  I found the majority of these sections to be very well written and logical, if a bit wordy at times.  There are also boxes placed inbetween the above text that are marked with the tree logo used on this entire series of study books.  These boxes of text tend to be more personal, asking the reader to consider their own thoughts, motives, practices and goals in life.  These sections were the least valuable to me personally.<br />The third method of organization is the use of tables of information, often with supporting scripture cited.  These sections compare and contrast many of the associated issues.  Throughout the book, when scripture is cited, it is labeled with the version (such as New King James Version = NKJV) that is being quoted.  The book also includes a few maps that help one track the travels of Jesus and his deciples during his ministry on up until his crucifixion and beyond.  Very well written overall and an interesting, thought-provoking read.	2002-01-23
US	50055383	R1GWA5MIEPCL1Q	0811722198	735239579	Performance Rock Climbing	Books	5	13	13	N	Y	THE Climbing Technique Book	Improving one's ability in any endeavor can be difficult once one has practiced for a few years.  One might think that there's not all that much technique involved in rock climbing, since the climber has but two arms and two legs.  But it's not that simple.  Performance Rock Climbing breaks climbing down into a number of aspects, then teaches how to optimize each and combine the parts into a whole.<br />When this book hit the shelves, I had stagnated for a few years, unable to improve.  Within 6 months, my onsight leading level had jumped nearly a whole grade.  I'd learned to channel my energy for climbing in a more efficient way, and to reduce climbing related injuries.  Rather than just exercising the climbing muscles, I learned to better exercise my mind - perhaps the most critical muscle of all for a climber.	2002-01-08
US	50055383	R2PIULTJPHUOS5	0934641188	537964588	Climber's Guide to Smith Rock	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Excellent Historical Perspective	Alan Watts did an excellent job in putting together this guide.  The topos and maps are high quality, the photos are excellent and it's easy to navigate.  But what really sets this guide apart from many others is the quality of the historical perspective and the overall readability of the text.  Watts played an important part in the development of sport climbing in the US and thus was a controversial figure for years.  His treatment of those tumultious times is worth the cost of the guide.	2002-01-08
US	50055383	R2ORG8M16FBIHZ	0934641374	699441376	Climbing Anchors (How to Climb Series)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Excellent Resource	Books on climbing technique have typically been incomplete in their coverage and lacking in illustrative detail.  John Long's &quot;How To Rock Climb&quot; series has made a quantum leap in these areas and are the current standard-bearers.  This book and its companion (More Climbing Anchors) show many possible anchor problems and discuss the pros and cons of several solutions for each.  By practicing the techniques presented, trad climbers can improve the integrity of their anchors.	2002-01-08
US	50055383	R1L8OK1BMYPEVI	1575400235	629713065	Phoenix Rock II: Rock Climbing Guide to Central Arizona Granite	Books	5	4	4	N	N	All Guide Books Should Be Done This Well	Greg Opland has raised the bar on guide book quality.  Phoenix Rock II borrows information from older guides to the area, but Greg injects his own attitudes and perspectives, making this truly his own.  The topo quality is second to none, a huge leap ahead of the current standard.  The history included is invaluable and helps to make the text very readable.  Photo quality is excellent.  Makes me want to buy a ticket and go to Phoenix to climb right now!	2002-01-08
US	50055383	RJLJJ28GCJYE2	0062516876	453447781	Touching My Father's Soul: A Sherpa's Journey to the Top of Everest	Books	5	9	11	N	N	The Best of the Everest '96 Books	Perspective - that's the real key this book gives one with respect to the disaster of Everest '96.  Many books have been written, from the bigger than life action thriller angle of &quot;Into Thin Air&quot;, the defensive shield of &quot;The Climb&quot;, the horrific cringe of &quot;Left for Dead&quot; on through the somewhat egotistical air of Lene Gammellgard's book.  But to me, &quot;Touching My Father's Soul&quot; is the best of the lot.<br />This book is not fast moving, nor impressively dramatic but it is exceedingly real.  Having been born a Sherpa, raised in India and schooled in America, Jamling brings us a unique perspective on the events.  I've read countless books written by westerners that attempt to describe the culture of the Sherpa, but none compare with this book.	2002-01-08
US	50055383	R3T5P3ODWYPIZU	067977789X	750346415	The Massage Book: 25th Anniversary Edition	Books	4	3	3	N	Y	Good starting place.	I consider this an old classic.  It offers up more than adequate background and plenty of helpful hints and details.  Your spouse/friends will love you for learning these techniques.  It's a bargain.	2002-01-03
US	50055383	R3D6QNU5OX47HQ	089886660X	657795520	All Fourteen 8,000ers	Books	5	18	18	N	N	Incredible achievement	Back in the '70's and early '80's, I eagerly awaited each issue of Mountain Magazine.  It was my link to the climbing world.  Time after time, a small paragraph or two would appear about another 8,000 meter peak that Messner had summited - all without bottled oxygen, all in exemplary style.  The editor of Mountain was no fan of Messners, so the write-ups were overly brief.  Still, I knew I was witnessing the work of a master.<br />This book compiles Reinhold's views on his biggest alpine climbs and still, we are sandbagged.  What this man and his partners achieved is difficult to fathom two decades later because his impact has been absorbed into the whole.  Before Messner, oxygenless attempts on the big mountains had fallen out of style but now, few world class mountaineers would dare consider it's use.  Before Messner, huge seige expeditions were the norm but today, many emulate Reinhold's gutty, stripped down approach and the environment has benefitted.  Reinhold is the man !	2002-01-03
US	50055383	R2DBRR55MQKLVY	0521352223	492519820	Surface Analysis of Polymers by XPS and Static SIMS (Cambridge Solid State Science Series)	Books	5	1	1	N	Y	Excellent, but we want more!	This book is an excellent resource for the surface analyst that works with organic and polymeric materials.  The treatment of fundamentals and hardware is adequate and appropriate.  There are many examples given for polymeric and additive systems, but one would wish for similar treatment for more systems.	2001-11-27
US	50055383	RPV54FN95EM4P	1585920878	559824053	Rock Climbing Tahquitz and Suicide Rocks, 3rd	Books	4	6	7	N	Y	A considerable upgrade over the 2nd edition.	The photos and topos have been upgraded in the 3rd edition and they make it easier to find your way around.  Many of the new photos are aerial shots and give excellent perspective.  Much of the rest of the book is better too, with more background and better photos of climbers on the routes.	2001-11-07
US	50055383	R3U7JZQNJGNGKG	0446394319	563837809	Hendrix: Setting the Record Straight	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Walk a mile in Jimi's shoes	I've read all of the Jimi bios over the years and to me, this one is the best.  Maybe the act of helping Jimi get the sounds he envisioned helped Eddie to get into his head just a little bit.  Reading the book, I found myself sucked into the making of the music and my appreciation of the music has grown as a result.<br />Let's give this one 6 stars.	2001-10-03
US	50055383	R33658CI974MZX	0898863449	897614426	My Vertical World: Climbing the 8000-Metre Peaks	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Jerzy REALLY wanted to climb	This book is not so much excellent because of expert wordsmithing, but because of the content. Kukuczka wanted to climb in the Himalaya so badly, he'd do anything to get there. And he was one of the best ever on difficult, high altitude routes. This book is required reading for mountaineers, armchair and back country.	2001-08-28
US	50055383	R1RZA91TSJ3PG6	0898866324	270894109	The Last Step: The American Ascent of K2	Books	4	11	12	N	Y	Breaking the mold	This book really did break the mold concerning how expedition account books were written, although some would put that label on Galen Rowell's account of the previous American K2 expedition: In The Throne Room of the Mountain Gods. Prior to In The Throne Room and The Last Step, the interpersonal aspects of expedition life were typically kept private in the books, in the British tradition. In The Throne Room exposed the rifts between team members on that expedition, but not in the compelling manner which Rick Ridgeway pulled it off in The Last Step. It's amazing that the team managed to summit 4 members given the difficult route chosen, the horrid weather and the altitude, let alone the infighting. Then again, Wickwire, Reichart, Roskelly and Ridgeway were not the types of climbers to back down easily. One has to wonder how much correlation there was between the infighting and the stubborness of the leading climbers.	2001-08-28
US	50055383	R1MXDSOQSQAP00	0898866103	912267094	Nanga Parbat Pilgrimage: The Lonely Challenge	Books	5	18	21	N	N	Hermann was an awesome dude	You might not find the literary style of this book to be a knockout, but,  like Jerzy Kukuzka's &quot;My Vertical World&quot;, the content will  probably blow you away.  Hermann fought his way past numerous obstacles on  his way to the summit of Nanga and did so with impeccable style.  It's a  guaranteed classic.	2000-08-24
US	50055383	R1G4VLSJBB4T67	0898865182	379922909	K2: Challenging the Sky	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Excellent photos, Rich in History	If you've read all the classic historical books of ascents on K2 except  this one, your library is incomplete.  The power of this book is in part  within it's outstanding photography and also has to do with how well it  pulls so much information together.  This is a complex mountain but the  information is presented clearly such that one feels more comfortable with  the different sides of the mountain and their challenges to the climber.	2000-08-24
US	50055383	R21QNC88BXZUYH	1570424357	72595773	Waylon: An Autobiography	Books	4	40	41	N	N	The tale of a survivor and an innovator	This book is as colorful as Waylon's best songs, with an earthy reality that you can smell, taste and feel in your gut.  He didn't have an easy life and the contrast between the good times and the hard times is evident.  The straightforward yet discriptive writing makes it easy to feel you were  there when it happened.  But it's never easy to bring about change, which  is what his life has been all about.  Some may think he brags too much but  the truth is he has plenty to be proud of.  I bought the book because I  wanted to see how he described his time with Buddy Holly and the evolution  of outlaw country and found it to be interesting, illuminating and at  times, surprising.  Along the way, I gained a whole new level of respect  for Jessi and was reminded again how important it is for a man to have a  strong woman.<br />It seems that all autobiographies drag at one point or  another but that's just a minor issue here.  If I could, I'd give this 4  and 1/2 stars, only because I'm stingy with my 5 star recommendations.  My  guess is that, if you like the man's music, you'll enjoy reading his story.	2000-06-23
US	50055383	R7DFCP79DXQFJ	0684871513	549184949	The Lost Explorer : Finding Mallory On Mount Everest	Books	3	3	7	N	N	An Amazing Story	I really enjoyed the history in this book.  It's a fast read and is pretty well written, yet I wish Conrad had written it all by himself.  Even though his analysis of the fate of Mallory and Irvine is rational and well-argued,  I'm not convinced.  I still tend to think that Odell, being the last person  to see the pair alive and believing they topped the second step, is to be  trusted.	2000-06-14
US	50055383	R1PGYO47LL3LGY	093464196X	91798652	Colorado Front Range Bouldering Fort Collins, Vol. 1 (Regional Rock Climbing Series)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Bob knows his stuff	Bob Horan's guide books are funky and original.  He has been a dedicated Front Range boulderer for many years and he's taken the time to visit these areas repeatedly with different partners to insure accuracy of grading,  problem description, etc.  I'd like to see him change what he calls  &quot;Meditation Boulder&quot; at Rotary Park back to its original name  (Biscuit Rock) but other than that, he's done a fine job.	2000-06-14
US	50055383	R37K2CDS448TW7	0312206372	8148905	The Climb: Tragic Ambitions on Everest	Books	5	6	16	N	N	Honesty Should Matter	If you take the time to study all that has been written about Everest 96, it is difficult to accept Krakauer's concept of Anatoli as villian.  I'd guess that the language barrier is a greater villian.  Another villian is  the effect of compounded bad decisions.  I would not be surprised if the  draft version of Into Thin Air had Rob Hall and Scott Fischer as primary  villians, only to be replaced by Toli after the editor told Jon that it's  poor form to pick on the dead.  I used to read every Krakauer book or  magazine article but now that I know he's willing to tell &quot;little  lies&quot;, I won't bother.  I'd rather sift through Dewalt's drivel in  order to get the facts written by Toli that have to guess how much I can  trust Jon.<br />Rest in peace, Anatoli.  I know you did your best in a bad  situation.	2000-06-07
US	50055383	RVA3ZDIX4SM1T	0375502807	82772270	Into Thin Air: A Personal Account of the Mount Everest Disaster (The Illustrated Edition)	Books	1	20	54	N	Y	Stick with the facts, Jon	I fully enjoyed reading this book - until I later read other related books, magazine articles, book reviews, articles on the web, etc.  How disappointed I was to realize that one of my favorite climbing authors was  willing to bend the truth in order to make his story more thrilling to  read.  It's a pity, but I guess Jon decided it was more important to sell a  ton of books than it was to treat others with the respect they deserved or  to just stick to the facts.	2000-02-14
