US	50054147	R15Y29R1OEJDEE	1583225269	585359983	The Fluoride Deception	Books	5	15	21	N	N	Makes you wonder what other truths are hidden by smirks.	Seriously, it's a sort of comical taboo that you just don't question water fluoridation.  Of course it's safe!  You're a conspiracy freak like General Jack D. Ripper from Dr. Strangelove or a holistic health nut if you say otherwise.  Canada, China (which conducted the largest study of its kind), and several European countries no longer fluoridate their drinking supply.  Portland, Oregon is the same way.  Modern mass double-blind studies have shown it contributes to weak bones, low intelligence, and ulcers of the stomach and mouth...not to mention that it does nothing to improve dental health by ingesting it.  I wouldn't be surprised if it's a leading contributor to that IBS that increasingly afflicts so many.  The science used to support fluoridation is outright junk science...slanted by anti-commies and fluoride money.  The fluoride money got the \\"marketing\\" of fluoride going, then the \\"patriots\\" perpetuated it by saying our children's strong teeth would help defeat the atheists.  Then the dentists, the same ones who flunked out of medical school, tried to back it up with skewed ADA stats...and people actually believed all three groups.  So wipe that damn smile off your face and read this book.<br /><br />\\"The great enemy of truth is often not the lie -- deliberate, contrived and dishonest -- but the myth.\\" JFK	2004-08-26
US	50054147	R2X3JDWTPZD31Q	0380723336	424991013	Bully: A True Story Of High School Revenge	Books	3	2	4	N	N	Fact or Fiction?	And by how much?  I'm not sure you can call a book with no Works Cited reference section or sources listed for most of the statements and information within it as being a \\"True Story\\"...unless you're willing to group it in with the TV movie of the week.  More like a crime novel, than an academic case study...and the publishers are indeed calling it a case study.  He gets in the heads of the \\"characters\\" in a way that reads like fiction, plain and simple.  That's not a good thing.  And Schutze really has created characters rather than presented objective information on the real people.  He certainly didn't talk to the participants, because we know from them that very little planning went into the murder.  It was premeditated in the sense that Marty had supposedly talked about wanting Bobby dead to Lisa, but several of them, including Alice, had no idea until the weapons were brandished.  That's from actual court information and interviews with the convicted.  And the homoeroticism and kiddy porn aspects led me to believe that the author might be trying to draw a connection between delinquent behavior and homosexuality.  Are these facts, and if so how relevant are they to each other and the larger events, or is the author trying to impress upon us a religious ideology?  You see, we don't know because he doesn't reference or source most of his information and he presents it all in a charged novelized form, and I got this sense of there being this fabricated theme that everything was being slanted around.  Real life usually just doesn't work like that, no matter how much we'd like it to.  I first saw the film and was assuming the director had Kids-ified the book (Kids was the director's first film and he has a habit of making things \\"raw\\" for the sensationalism of it), but it turns out it's a faithful adaptation of this questionable work.  Neither strikes me as being a likely realistic depiction of the actual events.  I think the public is better off reading the news journalism articles on it or, god forbid, the actual court documents.  I honestly haven't gotten around to all the reputable sources, yet, so I can't say with absolute certainty just how much of this book is bogus.  But that's the whole point.  If Schutze had done his job there'd be little room for doubt as to how factual his account is.urnalism articles on it or, god forbid, the actual court documents.  I honestly haven't gotten around to all the reputable sources, yet, so I can't say with absolute certainty just how much of this book is bogus.  But that's the whole point.  If Schutze had done his job there'd be little room for doubt as to how factual his account is. <br />	2004-08-23
US	50054147	R2YC6IIA9PN0J8	0929385225	351550043	Behold a Pale Horse	Books	1	39	86	N	N	Bill Cooper Was Clinically Insane.	He should have been institutionalized for his own safety and the safety of others.  He made numerous threats against respected academic researchers and heavily exagerated claims of his own first hand knowledge on these matters, especially regarding Majestic 12.  He was also connected to the extreme right-wing, anti-tax movement, though he was not an official member of any militia.  Not only did most abduction researchers shun anything he said, but even former associate Bob Lazar (the discredited Area 51/S-4 guy) distanced himself from Cooper.  The man became increasingly unstable and by the end was wanted by the U.S. Marshalls on felony charges.  On 11/5/2001, police attempted to serve an unrelated warrant against him for assault and endangerment.  He opened fire and shot one of them in the head.  The remaining deputies returned fire and killed Cooper.	2004-04-02
US	50054147	RW1OGU00VWMTX	094178102X	732381530	On the Trail of the Assassins: My Investigation and Prosecution of the Murder of President Kennedy	Books	4	1	5	N	N	Sort of...	Garrison believed the CIA, with the help of the mafia, Cuban exiles formerly involved with Operation Mongoose &amp; the Bay of Pigs, and extreme right wingers in DoD killed Kennedy.  He also believed Clay Shaw had a hand in it.  Generally I think he was on the right track, but it is unlikely that CIA and DoD would have cooperated to such an extent.  We know from ARRB releases that, unlike the later Iran-Contra and Tipped Kettle Ops, CIA and DoD were severely at odds with each other.  CIA's emergence as an outlet for covert ops was seen as encroaching on DoD holy ground.  Defense has perfected the art of the black op and black program with so many Sensitive Compartments, Special Access Programs, and Unacknowledged Units, that one has to admit they had a valid argument.  The great black op success stories during the Cold War (success in terms of tactical goals, not whether I agree with their motives or means) were primarily carried out by either DoD (sometimes through the NSA, which is heavily connected to the military) or British MI6, acting on behalf of CIA.  The agency rarely succeeded by itself on these matters.<br />We also know that DCI Richard Helms held high-level staff meetings on the topic of Garrison's investigation.  CIA certainly did sabotage it, but according to Victor Marchetti (whose opinion I've learned to trust) it was clear Shaw had not been involved with the assassination.  However, it also appeared from the discussions (and hush-hush nature of certain topics when brought up even in these meetings) that Shaw was more than just a domestic intell contact and that he &amp; CIA were probably covering for someone after the fact.  This was the same motive behind the agency suppressing their surveillance of an Oswald-imposter who had been trailing the real Oswald in Mexico City.  Someone else had an operator there, not CIA.<br />The clincher was when Helms was called before Congress &amp; the Justice Department and threatened during Watergate &amp; the Family Jewels (intell ethics and black ops scandals like MK/ULTRA and BLUEBIRD).  He walked out to reporters and said if Justice wanted to keeping playing hardball he'd be happy to open the biggest can of worms of them all.  He implied this would not implicate himself or his agency, but other portions of the government.  At that point Justice freaked and halted their strong-arming.  Considering the pervasive spread of right-wing extremism in DoD at the time of the assassination (stretching all the way to the Joint Chiefs) the meaning of all this is fairly clear.<br />Some individuals with former CIA ties were likely involved, but the agency was simply forced to suppress this (and by default aid the conspiracy) in order to avoid their own false implication in the assassination itself. Certainly if Garrison couldn't keep this separate then the public couldn't be expected to not blame CIA when they found out a few of its former employees or contacts were involved.  So Garrison was close, but he was a little too obsessed with Shaw and CIA to see the real picture.e Family Jewels (intell ethics and black ops scandals like MK/ULTRA and BLUEBIRD).  He walked out to reporters and said if Justice wanted to keeping playing hardball he'd be happy to open the biggest can of worms of them all.  He implied this would not implicate himself or his agency, but other portions of the government.  At that point Justice freaked and halted their strong-arming.  Considering the pervasive spread of right-wing extremism in DoD at the time of the assassination (stretching all the way to the Joint Chiefs) the meaning of all this is fairly clear.  <br />Some individuals with former CIA ties were likely involved, but the agency was simply forced to suppress this (and by default aid the conspiracy) in order to avoid their own false implication in the assassination itself. Certainly if Garrison couldn't keep this separate then the public couldn't be expected to not blame CIA when they found out a few of its former employees or contacts were involved.  So Garrison was close, but he was a little too obsessed with Shaw and CIA to see the real picture.	2004-03-26
US	50054147	RKLS4V9S1IKHZ	1569247412	139145237	Top Secret/majic	Books	1	8	21	N	N	Monica Lewinski had Top Secret Clearance, too.	From all the available evidence it is apparent to me that the U.S. Government does not have an active, highly organized effort to either investigate or conceal the existence of aliens visiting Earth.  If anything remotely \\"systemic\\" has resembled this, it is likely a few disparate individuals in power over the years acting out of fear or caution, rather than any shadow conspiracy.  The rest of it is simply the result of the \\"inestimable damage to the national security\\" test criteria that causes such information to stay compartmented, unshared, uncollated, and thus, largely unused.  The information is weird, and therefore gets tucked away by the classification system by default.  The few who have seen some of the collected intelligence have clearly been too perplexed or nervous to know what to do.<br /><br />Most of those who claim a mass conspiracy either have no first hand knowledge or are individuals who are known crackpots who've made numerous claims over the years, usually with escalating irrationality.  Take the case of the Disclosure Project.  They have a few former intelligence officers and air traffic controllers who have first hand accounts of personally seeing or detecting alien craft.  Their backgrounds check out and they very well may be telling the truth.  Disclosure Project then uses a bunch crackpots with longtime involvement in various saucer groups, who keep changing their stories over and over, to \\"corroborate\\" the other first-hand accounts and to further add that the U.S. Navy has an active saucer recovery unit.  The rest of their \\"witnesses\\" are people who saw odd lights earlier in life, became believers, and have now streamed together a narrative of third-person accounts they've collected for your enjoyment.  That's certainly not a reliable witness, either.  See how this works?  Now, I'm not questioning Disclosure Project or Stanton Friedman's motives, but rather their methodology and, thus, the conclusions they come to.<br /><br />With the Majestic/MAJIC story, we are finding the use of real documents unrelated to UFO's being grouped in with hoax documents.  The manual for the recovery of UFO's and all documents that mention Majestic 12 are forgeries.  The FOIA connecting documents which are being used to verify these hoax documents either have no connections to Majestic 12/MAJIC or have absolutely nothing to do with UFO's at all.  The primary document obtained through the Freedom of Information Act being used to validate the aforementioned hoax documents is an Emergency War Plan pertaining to nuclear war.  These evolving war plans were given codenames over the years such as Halfmoon, Fleetwood, Trojan, Offtackle, Masthead, and Majestic.  While in the beginning they were mostly target packages, they became increasingly complex to the point of including psychological warfare, communications, and logistics planning.  This document is real, but it has absolutely nothing to do with aliens.<br /><br />So let me repeat myself: There is not a single authentic document in existence that can connect the terms Majestic or MJ-12 to UFO's and aliens.  There are some non-UFO FOIA documents that use variants of these terms.  There are some historical FOIA documents that show the government puzzled as to what is flying around.  And there are a bunch of forgeries that attempt to connect the two.  And MAJI is simply an acronym for Major Agency for Joint Intelligence, commonly referring to international intelligence cooperation and liaison, such as between the U.S. and Canada.  The only other term that comes close would be MAJCOM, which appears on certain early Project Bluebook documents.  However, this is simply an abbreviation of Major Command, often used when putting a notation at the bottom of a document such as \\"Forward Copy to MAJCOM-2\\", a designation for a specific military command.  Friedman's got nothing but a bunch of forged documents and crackpot witnesses to support his theories, and this is from an abductee!, we are finding the use of real documents unrelated to UFO's being grouped in with hoax documents.  The manual for the recovery of UFO's and all documents that mention Majestic 12 are forgeries.  The FOIA connecting documents which are being used to verify these hoax documents either have no connections to Majestic 12/MAJIC or have absolutely nothing to do with UFO's at all.  The primary document obtained through the Freedom of Information Act being used to validate the aforementioned hoax documents is an Emergency War Plan pertaining to nuclear war.  These evolving war plans were given codenames over the years such as Halfmoon, Fleetwood, Trojan, Offtackle, Masthead, and Majestic.  While in the beginning they were mostly target packages, they became increasingly complex to the point of including psychological warfare, communications, and logistics planning.   This document is real, but it has absolutely nothing to do with aliens.    So let me repeat myself: There is not a single authentic document in existence that can connect the terms Majestic or MJ-12 to UFO's and aliens.  There are some non-UFO FOIA documents that use variants of these terms.  There are some historical FOIA documents that show the government puzzled as to what is flying around.  And there are a bunch of forgeries that attempt to connect the two.  And MAJI is simply an acronym for Major Agency for Joint Intelligence, commonly referring to international intelligence cooperation and liaison, such as between the U.S. and Canada.  The only other term that comes close would be MAJCOM, which appears on certain early Project Bluebook documents.  However, this is simply an abbreviation of Major Command, often used when putting a notation at the bottom of a document such as \\"Forward Copy to MAJCOM-2\\", a designation for a specific military command.  Friedman's got nothing but a bunch of forged documents and crackpot witnesses to support his theories, and this is from an abductee!	2004-02-26
US	50054147	RQJJXVV6IO24S	0684848139	904113998	The THREAT: Revealing the Secret Alien Agenda	Books	5	38	51	N	N	The Bitter Truth	Jacobs is the one researcher that other researchers always end up having to concede to.  I'm an abductee, so all this stuff is known to me first hand.  And by the way, I've never been hypnotized or institutionalized.  There are a lot of us out there, and for obvious reasons don't advertise.  It hurts sometimes to look at a blinding truth.  They're here.  They abduct people.  They breed hybrids.  The beings working on the various programs are not able or allowed to breed without taking part, and because their ancient society has dispelled every religious myth there ever was, the only eternal life is in the larger genetic lineage and society.  They subvert normal ethics for this \\"greater good\\".  Think of a cross between the biblical Abraham and the popular scientist Carl Sagan, then suppress whatever conscience either of them had.  Obsession with continued progeny and the perpetuance of intelligent life.  The engineered humans and hybrids often rub our technological inferiority in our faces...how very human of them.  The aliens use a variety of psychological warfare techniques, including utilization of regional myths and superstitions to mask their operations.  They prefer to work in secret, painstakingly avoiding risk to themselves.  So much so, that we don't even know what planet they're from.  They often train and program abductees to be useful at the \\"big event\\", sometimes as spotters for roaming drone ships that will be used to eliminate resistance, should humanity choose to ever take such an action.  Many of us have also been trained for skills in the post-event era.<br /><br />Philippines, Belgium, and other countries have already produced government reports indicating the ET phenomenon is probably real.  Our own Air Force Academy physicists were forced to a similar conclusion, but the textbook chapter on the subject was removed for being contrary to the belief systems of certain parents of Academy students.  U.S. intelligence agencies have so over-compartmented and decentralized the pieces of information on this subject, that although every pilot and air traffic controller knows strange things are flying around, our governments will not do anything about it until it is too late.  And it was too late the moment they arrived.  The war was over before it began.  We are defenseless.  There are no reverse engineered UFOs.  No ELF super-HAARP planetary shields.  If you resist, you die.  If we try and take a landed ship, our soldiers will have their flesh dissolved off their bones by thermoacoustic pulse.  We can either accept it and live out our puny little lives with the joys available, or not.  As for myself, I'm getting a second degree in Film, learning how to DJ, and pursuing my dreams while there's still time.  I assume at some point world governments will try something and all hell will break loose.  I'd like to live a little before the idiots in power ruin everything.<br /><br />For the record, the laws of physics do not prevent superluminal travel, just limit how one can go about achieving it.  The primary constraint having to do with causality.  If you people had actually studied Einstein and gravitation without making assumptions he never indulged in, you'd have figured that out.  If you'll excuse me, I can't help but feel a certain contempt for some of you.  We're the ones enduring all of this, and all we ask is for your support and comfort.  But we don't get it.  Instead, you just make fun.  And when you finally take your heads out of your butts and take notice, you'll likely just get everyone killed in the process.decentralized the pieces of information on this subject, that although every pilot and air traffic controller knows strange things are flying around, our governments will not do anything about it until it is too late.  And it was too late the moment they arrived.  The war was over before it began.  We are defenseless.  There are no reverse engineered UFOs.  No ELF super-HAARP planetary shields.  If you resist, you die.  If we try and take a landed ship, our soldiers will have their flesh dissolved off their bones by thermoacoustic pulse.  We can either accept it and live out our puny little lives with the joys available, or not.  As for myself, I'm getting a second degree in Film, learning how to DJ, and pursuing my dreams while there's still time.  I assume at some point world governments will try something and all hell will break loose.  I'd like to live a little before the idiots in power ruin everything.    For the record, the laws of physics do not prevent superluminal travel, just limit how one can go about achieving it.  The primary constraint having to do with causality.  If you people had actually studied Einstein and gravitation without making assumptions he never indulged in, you'd have figured that out.  If you'll excuse me, I can't help but feel a certain contempt for some of you.  We're the ones enduring all of this, and all we ask is for your support and comfort.  But we don't get it.  Instead, you just make fun.  And when you finally take your heads out of your butts and take notice, you'll likely just get everyone killed in the process.	2004-02-11
US	50054147	R1CUVJ4LSNCFVF	1400034620	599805840	Case Closed: Lee Harvey Oswald and the Assassination of JFK	Books	2	18	27	N	N	Seems Like A Nice Neat Little Package, Until...	1. You find out that the CIA tracked Oswald in Mexico City and noticed that an imposter was following behind him making contact with a KGB assassin in order to create a false Oswald-KGB-Castro connection.  That is a fact.  Even the recent Frontline documentary was forced to admit it.<br /><br />2. KGB records prove the Russians didn't have an imposter there.<br /><br />3. CIA was no longer conducting active anti-Castro Ops, because they'd been labeled failures and had their Operation Mongoose canceled.<br /><br />4. The Pentagon, who has a long history of successful covert ops, was now actively engaged in The Cuba Project.<br /><br />5. Oswald was a loser and a wannabe spy (big James Bond fan), but was rejected by both CIA contacts and the KGB as a worthless fool. Yet, someone was still trying to go out of their way to pretend he had been recruited by the Soviets in Mexico.<br /><br />6. Ruth Paine, who got him the interview with the Book Depository, had a sister in US intelligence and years later worked with Quaker relief organizations in Latin America during Iran-Contra.  Fellow Quakers claimed she was doing surviellence work and asked her to leave.  Her father and brother-in-law also worked for the Agency for International Development (AID),which  was heavily involved with soliciting support for other countries in Latin America, which were then expected to route third-party assistance to Christian anti-communist guerrillas in the region.  The agency was a soft front for these activities.  To give you another perspective, Otto Reich, the former head of the pernicious Office of Public Diplomacy, got his feet wet as Assistant Administrator of AID -- not that he had anything to do with JFK, but you see the trend.  At the time of his arrest, Oswald's brother told him in jail Paine could not be trusted and was not his friend.  Whatever the brother might believe now, I'm inclined to think his initial impressions may have been correct.<br /><br />7. JCS Chairman Lemnitzer, who wrote critical memos behind Kennedy's back yet rarely spoke out against him in staff meetings, was obsessed with proving that the Pentagon could succeed in Cuba where the CIA had failed and approved plans to attack American bases, ships, aircraft, and cities then blaming it on Castro to create a false pretext for war.  The administration got wind of Operation Northwoods and immediately cracked down.<br /><br />8. Ongoing investigations into extreme right-wing elements in the DoD were abruptly halted after Kennedy was killed.  One of those secret investigations had already concluded that Lemnitzer needed to be further investigated due to his extremist connections.<br /><br />9.  We know from authentic documentation (internal memos, recorded conversations, letters, etc.) that LBJ and Hoover pressured Chief Justice Warren and Dallas Police to make sure anything that detracted from the Lone Gunman Theory was suppressed or destroyed. They believed either the communists or right wingers in the Pentagon attempting to implicate communists had conspired to kill JFK.  They did everything in their power to make sure the truth, whatever that happened to be, never came out.<br /><br />10. LBJ did in fact say the famous line to Pentagon brass: \\"You just get me elected and you'll get the war you want.\\"<br /><br />Now, after you have addressed all of these, you might have a case.k yet rarely spoke out against him in staff meetings, was obsessed with proving that the Pentagon could succeed in Cuba where the CIA had failed and approved plans to attack American bases, ships, aircraft, and cities then blaming it on Castro to create a false pretext for war.  The administration got wind of Operation Northwoods and immediately cracked down.    8. Ongoing investigations into extreme right-wing elements in the DoD were abruptly halted after Kennedy was killed.  One of those secret investigations had already concluded that Lemnitzer needed to be further investigated due to his extremist connections.    9.  We know from authentic documentation (internal memos, recorded conversations, letters, etc.) that LBJ and Hoover pressured Chief Justice Warren and Dallas Police to make sure anything that detracted from the Lone Gunman Theory was suppressed or destroyed. They believed either the communists or right wingers in the Pentagon attempting to implicate communists had conspired to kill JFK.  They did everything in their power to make sure the truth, whatever that happened to be, never came out.    10. LBJ did in fact say the famous line to Pentagon brass: \\"You just get me elected and you'll get the war you want.\\"    Now, after you have addressed all of these, you might have a case.	2004-02-07
US	50054147	R3YH6MUEQBE4Q	0385499086	218243212	Body of Secrets: Anatomy of the Ultra-Secret National Security Agency	Books	4	13	19	N	N	False Pretexts and Damaging Secrets - A Consistent Theme	Sure, some of his claims of NSA's present day technical capabilities and current invasion into US civilian privacy were somewhat exaggerated in the Puzzle Palace, but you can't deny that this guy's responsible for blowing the lid off a significant amount of dirt stored in this nation's vaults.  Case in point: Operation Northwoods.  The plans by the JCS under the direction of Gen. Lemnitzer and extreme right wingers in the defense planning establishment to attack American cities, ships, aircraft, and bases and blame it on Cuba in order to get us into war...and beyond.  A lot of people go on and on about CIA and JFK, but in reality by that time CIA was removed from most Cuban activities and the pentagon became the chief player under the Cuba Project.  Makes you wonder who was posing as Lee Harvey Oswald in Mexico City and making calls to a KGB assassin.  We know Oswald was there, along with an imposter following behind him.  We know CIA monitored both.  We also know CIA got spooked when the assassination occurred and tried to suppress what they eavesdropped on.  KGB certainly had no interest in creating a false KGB-Oswald connection.  CIA wasn't actively involved in Cuban ops anymore because they'd once again proved inept.  So that only leaves the DoD establishment as the likely operator in Mexico City.  This would certainly explain why CIA covered it up and bit the bullet.  God bless 'em if they've been taking the heat for so long to prevent the revolt this revelation would bring.  Hoover and LBJ both said it was either a communist conspiracy or a conspiracy by the right wingers in the pentagon trying to make it look like Soviets/Cubans.  We know they did everything in their power to make sure the Warren Commission testimony and evidence supported a lone gunman, preventing WWIII.  It's also consistent with LBJ's troubles with the military, including the famous and real line with the Pentagon brass, \\"You just get me elected and you'll get the war you want.\\"  Since there never was the WWIII the JCS and right wingers wanted, I suppose you can still rationalize that LBJ and Hoover did the right thing; though they died thinking Cuba and the KGB were responsible.<br /><br />Bamford achieves a first in describing and documenting the DoD, JCS, and NSA's rival with the CIA, which DoD felt was encroaching on its covert ops territory.  NSA is not only a civilian intell agency, but is also responsible for funding and coordinating the military's SIGINT and IMINT activities.  There is so much more to intelligence history than just the CIA.  State's Office of Public Diplomacy (OPD) was responsible for all sorts of illegal activities related to Iran-Contra, including the Nicaraguan Migs story.  It was closed by Congress for breaking the law.  Like I said, a lot of people go on and on about CIA mistakes, but in reality, the CIA did just that...screw up.  Allende's assassination was an accident, not intentional.  Most of the super sensitive MK Ultra and Bluebird activities were actually run by DoD and its subsidiaries, not CIA.  There was a saying back in the day, \\"If a bomb went off and killed everyone except the intended target, it must be CIA.\\"  I think between this book and Marchetti and Mark's CIA and the Cult of Intelligence, you have about as accurate a look at the history of U.S. intell you could possibly get.  We can now further see that the use of 9/11 as a pretext for going into Iraq was coordinated out of the Office of Special Plans in the Pentagon under the direction of Rumsfeld and Cheney.  This office was also responsible for compiling and selecting biased and misleading intelligence, bypassing the objectivity mandate the CIA is now beholden to.  It's no wonder that OPD's former head Otto Reich was appointed by Bush to the State Department's Latin division.  Cold War redux?  If we go back even further, we can see the thread all the way back to the 40 Committee under Kissinger and the DoD's PSYOPs in Brazil, probably the most successful news manipulation and overthrow of a democratic government in the history of the world.  So successful that to this day Brazilians still think the progressive, Catholic, anti-monopolist Goulart was a hardcore Commie.<br /><br />As a result, I think Bamford's next book needs to broaden to include the entire DoD, JCS, and NSA structure and its integrated history, rather than fixate on the NSA.  The worst corruption has always occurred within the Pentagon and the numerous secret planning committees and defense advisory boards, many with deep connections to corporate America (e.g. ITT, United Fruit Company, Bell Helicopter, Halliburton, etc) often using defense issues to mask hidden profit motives...more false pretexts.  Body of Secrets' best moments are when he starts doing this, but it's always cut a little short...as if he fears being called a radical.  I think it is also this fixation that tends to tempt him to go off on NSA technical capabilities, the more extreme of which he is speculating about and has little evidence for.  The EU did probably the best recent study of the NSA's likely capabilities and it has turned out to be very consistent with revelations post-9/11, like NSA still relying heavily on manual transcripts of audio conversations, not massive voice recognition computers...though we know NSA and DARPA are making advances in that department.  But the trail of evidence when looked at in terms of trends and common themes should force more radical directions in his writing, not the geeky techno indulgences he sometimes gets side-tracked with.ws manipulation and overthrow of a democratic government in the history of the world.  So successful that to this day Brazilians still think the progressive, Catholic, anti-monopolist Goulart was a hardcore Commie.      As a result, I think Bamford's next book needs to broaden to include the entire DoD, JCS, and NSA structure and its integrated history, rather than fixate on the NSA.  The worst corruption has always occurred within the Pentagon and the numerous secret planning committees and defense advisory boards, many with deep connections to corporate America (e.g. ITT, United Fruit Company, Bell Helicopter, Halliburton, etc) often using defense issues to mask hidden profit motives...more false pretexts.  Body of Secrets' best moments are when he starts doing this, but it's always cut a little short...as if he fears being called a radical.  I think it is also this fixation that tends to tempt him to go off on NSA technical capabilities, the more extreme of which he is speculating about and has little evidence for.  The EU did probably the best recent study of the NSA's likely capabilities and it has turned out to be very consistent with revelations post-9/11, like NSA still relying heavily on manual transcripts of audio conversations, not massive voice recognition computers...though we know NSA and DARPA are making advances in that department.  But the trail of evidence when looked at in terms of trends and common themes should force more radical directions in his writing, not the geeky techno indulgences he sometimes gets side-tracked with.	2004-01-20
US	50054147	R1LWJM8JQKP0NM	0425069966	334108985	The Godmakers	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Herbertalicious!	...This is not a book version of the anti-Mormon film The Godmakers.  Rather, it's Frank Herbert's oldie, but goodie science fiction novel about a civilization out to use technology to create a godlike entity.  Cool stuff.	2002-02-01
US	50054147	R2TDPZ1TBHVC1	1880582244	881989203	Not by Chance! Shattering the Modern Theory of Evolution	Books	3	18	52	N	N	Very interesting complaints, but his proof is shaky.	First, you've got to be a bit suspicious about a book written by a &quot;Judaic&quot; publishing house.  Could he be motivated by some serious mystical preconceptions about reality?  I'm not going to attack Spetner for being a physicist rather than a geneticist, but I'm a little dismayed at the lack of discussion on nonlinearity and chaos theory in evolutionary dynamics.  Now that I think of it, such a discussion would probably dissolve much of his argument.  A nonlinear system is one where tiny differences in the initial state produce large differences later on.  Large differences can produce small differences, and small differences can produce large differences.  This leads to a problem in predictability.  Chaotic systems are complex systems that are in a state of transformation.  Most chaotic systems are permanently so and never become stable.  This also leads to a problem of predictability.  Physics, astronomy, geology, meteorology, sociology, economics, and political science all have problems that are of a nonlinear, chaotic nature.  You cannot use statistics to prove something impossible, only that there is a probabilistic difficulty in achieving certain results by a certain amount.  Statistics can show there's a one in hundreds of millions of chance difficulty in determining the aggregate state of a complex gas medium within a gas chamber.  It is not impossible, just very, very difficult.  The proven impossibility in this problem is the predictability of a specific gas molecule's location and state at any particular moment.  That's the nonlinear, chaotic nature of the gas system rearing its nasty head, and the only way to deal with it is in the aggregate.  In certain types of very complex fluid dynamics, as well as certain types of problems within the academic fields noted above, the only way to find these aggregate solutions is through the use of &quot;genetic equations&quot;.  The problem is inputted into a supercomputer, which conducts millions upon millions of trial runs, eventually outputting useful solutions of various kinds to fill this problem niche.  Sometimes there are multiple solutions where none are perfect, but each gets closer and closer.  The longer you run the problem through the computer the better the solutions become.  In multiplayer, nonzero sum political or economic game theory the best solution is unattainable and statistics can even show how horrendously difficult it is to find a good solution, but some type of solution can be generated using genetic equation solving, often producing coalition strategies in the case of politics, for instance.  Yes, it's extremely improbable to find these types of solutions, but that's why modern scientists need supercomputers for these problems.  The faster computers become, the more mind bogglingly nonlinear, chaotic problems will be solvable in the space of a single researcher's supercomputer usage time allotment.  It's ironic that biological evolution as a theory for the origin of life is under attack, since it is here that the theories of evolutionary dynamics originated.  Spetner has recently admitted that, theoretically, new additive mutations are possible in biological systems, but are *extremely* unlikely.  He theorizes this would require a &quot;duration of millions of generations&quot; then uses an alleged fact that out of a few thousand laboratory-observed beneficial mutations, no additive ones have ever been observed.  If that fact is true (and I don't know, though I've never seen a peer reviewed study claiming such a thing), it would indeed be consistent with that claim, but is not larger evidence that an evolutionary origin of life and its genetic code is impossible, rather just very difficult.  In the course of 4 billion years, with billions, even trillions of potentially altered units at each time, and reproductive cycles that are shorter in time span the more simple the life form, you end up with horrifyingly large trial sets that no supercomputer or laboratory in existence could possibly attempt to model in its entirety.  Nature is the ultimate computing environment, and Mother Nature does not have to relinquish the keyboard to the next researcher on shift.  As for attempting to find evidence in the laboratory of beneficial additive mutations, I'll become worried when we allegedly reach the millions of mutation case studies mark and still haven't found any.  Until then, I'd recommend looking into the cutting edge of evolutionary biology:  prebacterial thermophilic archaea evolution and research into the origin of RNA.r or laboratory in existence could possibly attempt to model in its entirety.  Nature is the ultimate computing environment, and Mother Nature does not have to relinquish the keyboard to the next researcher on shift.  As for attempting to find evidence in the laboratory of beneficial additive mutations, I'll become worried when we allegedly reach the millions of mutation case studies mark and still haven't found any.  Until then, I'd recommend looking into the cutting edge of evolutionary biology:  prebacterial thermophilic archaea evolution and research into the origin of RNA.	2001-11-20
US	50054147	R1N23VJCKR0O5W	0075548526	797276122	Theory of International Politics	Books	3	8	18	N	N	Structuralism pretending to be both scientific and systemic.	This book is important, but it's not nearly all it's cracked up to be.  First, it's very poorly written...  At times, the sentence structure actually requires grammar diagramming to understand.  Next, it pretends to be scientific, but doesn't actually follow through with it.  Waltz criticizes Kaplan without telling us why, except to say Kaplan&#8217;s writings were undeveloped and lacking rigor.  Huh?  Comparing Kaplan to Waltz I'd have to give the Scientific Rigorousness Prize to Kaplan, hands down.  Waltz also claims Rosecrances' theories are simply reductionism in the guise of systems theory.  However, Waltz points out that neither cybernetic systems theory nor general systems theory will work for international politics.  Then on the next page he says systems theory is still the only option.  What Waltz actually claims is the savior of IP is sociology's Structuralism Theory, which he repeatedly and erroneously calls &#8220;systems theory&#8221;.  Thus, Waltz is doing the same kind of thing he criticizes Rosecrances for.  Why do people let him get away with knocking Kaplan, but pretending that structuralism is scientific systems theory?  Because Waltz does something highly original for the field: he spends the first two chapters waxing intellectual about the virtues of the scientific method.  This technique then fools the reader into thinking Waltz is actually applying this methodology, though all he does is use historical case studies and a few ex post facto statistics to support his views.  Now I can't be too harsh, because this did inspire others, including Kaplan, to be even more rigorous and scientific, which is a good thing.  Waltz also does have some very interesting points.  For example, he thinks both dependency AND interdependency produce instability, and that only through self-sufficiency and some level of independence can a nation be free of instability's manipulating effects.  He also correctly predicted the nostalgia that would be felt for good old bipolarism if the Cold War ever ended.  Boy, was he right on that one.ipolarism if the Cold War ever ended.  Boy, was he right on that one.	2001-11-08
US	50054147	R11ZOXL6RVBJ8D	0333963776	213920142	The Twenty Years' Crisis 1919-1939: An Introduction to the Study of International Relations	Books	4	8	14	N	N	Tricky, but insightful and ahead of its time.	Much of the appeal of realism stems from a belief that it's more grounded in reality and pragmatism.  In this way, it's often the bias of choice for academics simply because it makes one's ideas appear more legitimate.  Here's a case in point:  Carr spends nearly the entire book ripping apart utopianism and pluralism, as any &quot;good realist\\" would be apt to do, only to reach the last chapter where he declares liberalism is the only hope for mankind.  So it's clear that he wasn't really a true Realist, but used it for improving his career prospects.  It obviously worked, because The Twenty Years' Crisis is considered a classic work in realism.  Nonetheless, Carr comes up with some great insights.  He correctly predicts the rise of nonstate actors.  Though he is wrong in thinking colonization would continue for the long haul in its current form, yet he predicts the move away from expansionism in favor of interchangeable puppet governments and international subversion.  Carr has great advice when he says war will continue until nations begin sacrificing for one another, something that U.S. actions in Latin America and the United Fruit Company fiasco chose to disregard.  My favorite point is when he says absolute peace is only possible when there is a larger, common threat that subunits can mobilize against.  Earth cannot unite against the impending threat from the Planet Mars, for instance.  Well, maybe there are no Martians, but perhaps there's someone else out there...	2001-11-08
US	50054147	R1KJP9301S3KYV	0321013492	915529319	Essence of Decision: Explaining the Cuban Missile Crisis (2nd Edition)	Books	2	23	54	N	N	Great theory, but erroneous conclusions and also outdated.	Essence of Decision was written in 1971 and attempted to formulate a theory of international political decision-making using public policy decision-making theory.  In general, this is a great idea.  However, Allison uses the wrong case study to support it.  The Cuban Missile Crisis is not an example of bureaucratic decision-making.  Yes, there was wrangling in the Executive Branch over what to do, but this is what we call \\"advising\\".  The only reason the Attorney General played a large role is because he was the president's brother and closest advisor on political matters.  In the end, it was JFK's sole decision and resulted in a real &quot;choice&quot;; thus it *was* unitary in nature and could not be Model 3 Pluralism.  In fact, it was Model 1 Realism that resulted in the Cuban Missile Crisis decision, so what if there were competing views expressed to the chief executive on how best to protect national security.  Vietnam is an excellent example of Model 3 bureaucratic decision-making, because you had the President doing one thing, the military doing something else, the CIA saying one thing, the media saying something else, etc.  From all these competing decisions you had unintended &quot;outcomes&quot;, like bombing empty jungle based on latent intell.  Unintended classification, compartmentalization, and under-use of accidentally acquired intelligence is an example of Model 2 Pluralism when standard procedures themselves produce unintended &quot;outputs&quot;.  So, Allison's on the right track, he just doesn't do anything correct with what he's got.  To make matters worse, this book is outdated.  JFK made the decision because his daily morning intell briefs from the CIA informed him that (based on US imagery intelligence) the Soviets stood no chance against us in an all out nuclear exchange.  We were not bluffing, and were fully capable of cleaning their clocks with minimal casualties if they tried to call us on it.  The embargo and subsequent demands simply allowed for the possibility of a peaceful outcome, which an immediate and all out invasion on Cuba certainly would not have produced.owed for the possibility of a peaceful outcome, which an immediate and all out invasion on Cuba certainly would not have produced.	2001-11-07
US	50054147	R34JM1E3M4YWYY	0345409469	137607328	The Demon-Haunted World: Science as a Candle in the Dark	Books	2	23	61	N	N	Sagan Was Just Another Sort of Believer	As Raymond Moody once said, hard-line skeptics are just another form of believer and all believers lack open-mindedness. Science and critical thinking are very important, but they are tools at getting to indirect truths and should not be placed in the ultimate high esteem. Compassion is the ultimate virtue, not intelligence. Why don't humanists write books on that instead of trying to turn our current science paradigm into some kind of religious dogma?<br /><br />Besides, we all rely on perceptual relativism, because all we know for sure is that we ourselves perceived a thing, and even then, that is not evidence beyond the perception itself. There's no logical reason why a person should rely on others to corroborate their own experiences. If your house is on fire, do you wait for external confirmation before leaving? Absolutely not.<br /><br />Science and peer review are necessary for us to form reasonable, tentative assumptions about reality for the purpose of society's reasonable allocation of resources to advance its combined knowledge base and technological development. For each of us, though, being open-minded is suspending our assumptions one way or the other until we have a convincing reason to do otherwise. Just say you don't know, and deal with it in a dignified manner.<br /><br />Every few months our local PBS station airs the Cosmos series and the fundraisers speak of him like he's the science messiah! At best, Sagan was a notable science teacher to the masses and sci-fi novelist. At worst, he was a closed-minded, media-savvy fame-seeker. He made some minor planetary science advancements that did not justify his stardom.  I'm a proponent of science and critical thinking, but an opponent of arrogance and self-promotion.  Indeed, it was Sagan's politics and outspoken \\"beliefs\\" that actually propelled him into the spotlight!<br /><br />Sagan's most famous theories were actually about the Venusian atmosphere and his related famed Nuclear Winter theory.  Both were wrong. Nuclear Winter was disproved years ago and would require far more devices than humankind could ever produce. Only a massive celestial impact (comet or asteroid) would create such a dramatic change in climate, but Sagan was an ardent anti-nuclear activist. Hence, he created models to support his ideologies. Being wrong is not a failing in itself, but skewing the construction of theory to fit your personal ideologies *is*.<br /><br />Lastly, Bill Joy of Sun Microsystems (who helped develop the very technology you are using right now) has made an extremely convincing case that humanity is in danger of accidentally destroying itself in the next century with the likes of artificial intelligence, self-replicating nanotechnology, and biotechnology. If we aren't extremely careful, this \\"candle in the dark\\" Sagan speaks of could very well burn the house down. My recommendation: go read a book on Einstein.were wrong. Nuclear Winter was disproved years ago and would require far more devices than humankind could ever produce. Only a massive celestial impact (comet or asteroid) would create such a dramatic change in climate, but Sagan was an ardent anti-nuclear activist. Hence, he created models to support his ideologies. Being wrong is not a failing in itself, but skewing the construction of theory to fit your personal ideologies *is*.<br /><br />Lastly, Bill Joy of Sun Microsystems (who helped develop the very technology you are using right now) has made an extremely convincing case that humanity is in danger of accidentally destroying itself in the next century with the likes of artificial intelligence, self-replicating nanotechnology, and biotechnology. If we aren't extremely careful, this \\"candle in the dark\\" Sagan speaks of could very well burn the house down. My recommendation: go read a book on Einstein.	2001-05-28
US	50054147	R3VTF9HIO6HIHF	0060193689	288480034	Rule By Secrecy: The Hidden History that Connects the Trilateral Commision, the Freemasons and the Great Pyramids	Books	1	4	10	N	N	This Malarkey Almost Justifies the Secrecy	Yes, there are aliens abducting people like me. But they aren't involved with the Masons. Sure there are lots of Mormon Masons in the intelligence community, and a very small minority of Mormons in Utah actually believe lizard men have a colony under Salt Lake City, but that doesn't make it true. The real aliens, who aren't lizards, are just involved in an artificial evolution project that is unethically put above the individual liberties of people like me.<br />Yes, a conspiracy killed JFK, but it wasn't the CIA and some world conspiracy that did it. The people (Cuban exiles and militia nuts) the CIA was training to kill Castro got mad when JFK put an end to their programs, so they blew his brains out. This kind of whiplash effect is called &quot;blowback&quot; in intelligence circles. Besides, what did you expect when Kennedy called for detente with the Soviets so soon after the McCarthy hearings? FBI and CIA were just covering up their negligence, as any bureaucracy could be expected to do -- especially when they knew people like Marrs have a tendency to exaggerate things.<br />Yes, Freemasonry is partly responsible for the cohesion that existed amongst the military officers during the American Revolution, and for the resulting U.S. Constitution. However, after a series of murder trials in the 1800's exposed their problems, the secret society largely turned into a benign men's club.<br />Lastly, though many international organizations are quite uncompassionate, that's not the result of any of the above occurrences. People, whether it be the old CIA, the IMF, or the real alien visitors, tend to take advantage of the weak for their own high-minded priorities. This is only evidence of the universal lack of compassion and honesty amongst most intelligent beings, not of some single, absolute conspiracy. Just because there's some truth in Marrs' books doesn't mean the other claims and conclusions in them are correct. It's as good a reason as any to keep these secrets from the public. Even &quot;acclaimed reporters&quot; can't seem to keep their heads about these things.rom the public. Even &quot;acclaimed reporters&quot; can't seem to keep their heads about these things.	2001-05-28
US	50054147	R1QIF18XXRL3AA	0813910641	493127812	The Mirror and Man	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	An Overlooked Groundbreaker of Profound Import	Renowned author and researcher Raymond Moody personally recommended &quot;The Mirror and Man&quot; to me.  It is a highly original work of scholarly research on the ancient, worldwide mythologies concerning mirrors and their uses in modern day technology.  I'm not aware of anyone who has developed far beyond its unparalleled research.  Moody only has less than a chapter devoted to this research in &quot;The Last Laugh&quot;.  There does indeed appear to be a commonality and connection between some of these beliefs.  In fact, the latest archeological research shows that the Scythians of Russia actually had a belief system that was centered on mirrors.  Every Scythian wore a small magic/mystical mirror on their belt and was buried with it at death.  This would suggest yet another connection between ancient pre-Christian death rituals and mirrors, which further shows the relevance of Moody's research.  This is an important subject, which appears to have been accidentally lost in humanity's pre-history.	2001-05-18
US	50054147	ROXCBRKNM6QMJ	1564599205	897629899	Mystic Test Book of the Hindu Occult Chambers	Books	2	3	6	N	Y	Mislabeled	I bought this to study the connection between Hindu &amp; Egyptian mysticism and mirror mythology, but was very disappointed.  It's mostly wishy-washy vagaries about getting a person in touch with the astral plane.  There's very little reliable referencing to actual ancient beliefs, and instead sounds more like Delaurence was attempting to fuse different systems he'd studied into some new, simplified route to &quot;enlightenment&quot;.  It would be more appropriate to call it &quot;The Wanna-Be-Genuine Psychics Text Book&quot;.  Who knows, maybe those looking for such a book would benefit.	2001-05-18
US	50054147	R2MTCHIW3IEDF7	0517705680	971976806	Passport to the Cosmos : Human Transformation and Alien Encounters	Books	1	15	29	N	N	Mack's Been Recruited By The Delusional.	I just found this book here on Amazon and had no idea Mack hadwritten another one.  Well, what can I really say?  It's exactly as I deduced in my review of his first book, &quot;Abduction&quot;.  Mack has indeed been lured-in by the BS stories of contactees. Very early on, I understood that Strieber was often incorrect in his conclusions. He seems now to have realized some of those initial new-age beliefs were in error.  However, Mack is still fully converted to the Space Brother theme.  I'm an abductee and have never needed to be hypnotized.  Contactees are either not seeing things as they are, or haven't seen anything at all.  Sometimes, you do feel a weird, almost sexual intimacy with the aliens.  But it wears-off pretty quickly. Either they have you drugged-up and feeling that way so they can put you through tests while you're awake, or they just put you under.  If you've just been unconscious, they'll put you under again when they notice you're awake.  I've had wishful dreams about them where I either dream kicking the crap out of them, or dream they suddenly start acting nice and wise.  But those are just dreams.  When I've touched their flesh and had no question I was fully awake and in an un-drugged state, I've had nothing but contempt for them.  Try to ask them about their belief systems and they'll say nothing, more concerned about studying your mannerisms and tone of voice.  Ask them what they're getting for doing this to other people and they'll treat you as part of an underdeveloped, inferior people, unworthy to speak to them in that manner.  Tell them they can't be allowed to do this to others and they'll say, &quot;Who's going to stop us.&quot; That is the truth.	2000-06-16
US	50054147	R1IPQA9HV9ZM65	0345393007	701143332	Abduction: Human Encounters with Aliens	Books	2	5	18	N	N	Mack has no BS meter.	It's all well and good for people to be researching this subject.  As an 'abductee' (that word just doesn't do it justice), my first thought when I heard Mack had finished his book was &quot;It's about damn time a major  figure got into the field&quot;.  But then I got really ticked-off when I  heard about his past life regression and other new-age consciousness  theories.  I read the book and was appalled that someone of his collegiate  stature would be lured-in by this contactee bull dung.  Sure enough, months  go by and his contactees start admitting they made the stuff up.  OF COURSE  THEY DID!  Anyone who thinks the...'things' act with ethical benevolence is  either lying or delusional.  The truth is bitter and unpleasant.  Want to  know what kind of crud goes on?  Read David Jacobs' &quot;Secret  Life&quot;.  I'll personally vouch for it.	2000-06-14
US	50054147	RQ3CYPOZ3LN7Y	0441172717	88529599	Dune	Books	5	1	2	N	N	The Greatest Science Fiction Novel I've Read	The first time reading this novel, I started with the historical appendix.  I directed every single moment in my mind as if it was a cross between some great film and an alternate hyper-reality.  Each conversation, action,  and scene description played out in nearly real time.  If a scene was set  up incorrectly or otherwise did not play out exactly as it should, I'd  reread and meditate over the passage or pages again until it was flawless.  There were moments when the beauty and grandeur of a scene would bring  tears to my eyes, such as when Doctor Yueh made his way along the path of  burning palm trees to the ornithopter in one last redeeming gesture.  There  is no way a film could adequately capture the glory of this work of art.  Even a 10 hour, $150 million HBO miniseries would only begin to do it  justice.  That first reading still stands as one of the greatest literary  experiences of my life.  I know most people don't have the time to  experience it as I did, but Dune is a journey I highly recommend - even if  it's by speed-reading.	2000-06-12
US	50054147	RHQWK3CLC2DS9	0393307948	921406320	The Search for the "Manchurian Candidate": The CIA and Mind Control: The Secret History of the Behavioral Sciences	Books	5	43	44	N	N	Excellent Research.	John Marks is an excellent researcher.  MK Ultra is an extremely dark chapter in the history of the intelligence, military, and R&amp;D community.  There are some troubling insights that I feel compelled to  repeat here.  First, this covert community destroyed an enormous amount of  their records and documentation on secret activities in the late 60's and  early 70's.  They obviously destroyed the most damning portion of the paper  trail.  Yet out of the relatively benign information still available, we  get proof of unethical conduct and allusions of possible illegal acts.  There is even a hint that research was conducted on microwaves, ultrasonic,  and electrical stimulation of the brain.  There's little or no information  on what was discovered in *these* subjects, or even whether the activities  were truly halted.  We now have indication that the military just so  happens to have data on the use of sub &amp; ultra sonics in nonleathal  weapons.  It's possible that the information, and possibly even current MK  Ultra influenced research, is still around.  I've heard military personnel  say most of the very sensitive research does not occur on the CIA operative  level, but in subcontractors and middle management who keep their own  research records and staff.<br />  Didn't Sirhan Sirhan say he'd been in a  hypnotic trance?  Did he say this before MK Ultra was revealed, or after?  I wonder...	2000-06-10
US	50054147	R697NNESZD4NJ	0809463245	683320534	The UFO Phenomenon (Mysteries of the Unknown)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Not Bad	This is a nice, comprehensive, but brief little book on the subject.  It covers most of the bases/theories and gets a few very important details that many ufology books never seem to get.  The authentic eyewitness  illustrations as well as the section on Samaria are intelligently chosen.  Go to a local library and check-it-out if you have an interest.	2000-06-10
US	50054147	R1384FGC0ADJ59	0671797204	672187380	Secret Life: Firsthand, Documented Accounts of Ufo Abductions	Books	5	47	53	N	N	This is THE abduction book to read.	There is no other book which so properly recounts reliable eyewitness testimony of this nature.  Even Hopkins' &quot;Intruders&quot; doesn't quite reach this level.  Mack's  &quot;Abduction&quot; has too many new-age  laced accounts.  The conclusions and theories of Strieber's  &quot;Communion&quot; *are* new-ageism, which he appears to now regret.  This is the one to get if you wish to hear accounts of level-headed  abductees who, I can guarantee, aren't going to turn around and say they  made it all up, as happened in the case of Mack's.	2000-06-10
US	50054147	RTVYMXHEUTGQK	0879759291	936960234	Living Without Religion	Books	5	50	52	N	N	Logical, accurate, but unpleasant for theists	You think this book is harsh on theists? Attend a conference where Kurtz is speaking. I guarantee you'll find Eupraxophy a pleasant and considerate view against theism! Kurtz tends to verge on believer -- believing there is  no god, instead of simply not believing in one. This is a thin line, but  many non-theists find themselves stepping over it inadvertently. This book  is pretty centered and deals more in line with reasonable assumptions,  though not exactly. There is a good deal of philosophical and religious  history that I found quite interesting. Kurtz and I are like-minded when he  avoids absolutism, but he can be very ornery sometimes. Theists beware: you  will probably either not understand these concepts, or just get really,  really angry.	2000-06-06
US	50054147	R1D1SGGQQDG9R	0393315703	194483165	The Blind Watchmaker: Why the Evidence of Evolution Reveals a Universe without Design (Reissued in 2006 and 1996)	Books	5	2	7	N	N	Excellent, Especially For Those Who Don't Understand Subject	Trait perpetuance in complex replicating systems is a real phenomenon.  It appears to have occurred during the history of life on earth, and because of its defining properties was probably instrumental in the development of  life itself.  Life may indeed be nothing more than this phenomenon at work  in chemistry.  We even categorize a field of chemistry as organic, or  living, chemistry.  Though the evidence is still not conclusive in my  opinion, there does seem to be a trend of indicators pointing to it in  cosmology as well.  This does indeed contradict at least traditional  creationist views.  I already understood most of the concepts in  Watchmaker, but Dawkins organizes it very well and has some interesting  points.<br />And, if my memory serves me, it wasn't Darwin who linked the term  &quot;evolution&quot; to natural selection -- a description denoting  idealized progression, which he found to be inaccurate.	2000-06-06
US	50054147	RKN7Y83368JWZ	0736900365	322290114	Creation vs. Evolution: What You Need to Know (Quick Reference Guides)	Books	1	13	31	N	N	Bogus Shmogus.	Yes, evolution is a theory.  Yes, there is not an infinite amount of seamless and perfect evidence which could allow us to &quot;know&quot; it is &quot;true&quot;.  Science is not about perfect knowledge and absolutes.  It is only a system of thought, experimentation, and peer review which  allows us to theorize and then act upon reasonable assumptions.  Zealotry  in science definitely must be scorned, but the actions of a few do not  invalidate the process.<br />In my opinion, those claiming natural selection  is a fraud are ignorant of the science behind genetic mutation and  reproductive statistical perpetuance, lack the required mental abilities to  understand it, or are extremely biased by erroneous preconceived notions.  Ankerberg and Weldon may choose which one they think applies in this case.	2000-06-05
US	50054147	RPKMZCHSVW11E	1565076575	291807680	Darwin's Leap of Faith: Exposing the False Religion of Evolution	Books	1	15	35	N	N	Bogus Shmogus	Yes, evolution is a theory.  Yes, there is not an infinite amount of seamless and perfect evidence which could allow us to &quot;know&quot; it is &quot;true&quot;.  Science is not about perfect knowledge and absolutes.  It is only a system of thought, experimentation, and peer review which  allows us to theorize and then act upon reasonable assumptions.  Zealotry  in science definitely must be scorned, but the actions of a few do not  invalidate the process.<br />In my opinion, those claiming natural selection  is a fraud are ignorant of the science behind genetic mutation and  reproductive statistical perpetuance, lack the required mental abilities to  understand it, or are extremely biased by erroneous preconceived notions.  Ankerberg and Weldon may choose which one they think applies in this case.	2000-06-05
US	50054147	R2O0Z7Q4014LEX	0553236210	127198042	Nova	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Ahead of its Time, and Very Cool.	This is one of my favorite sci-fi novels.  I've read it many times and am very fortunate to own a copy.  It contains one of the first descriptions of complex man-computer-machine interfaces  -- something Herbert alluded to  but wouldn't elaborate upon in &quot;Dune&quot;.  Delany even included some  gypsy culture and thieving with the Mouse character.  There's also a nice  socialite atmosphere.  And there's no hesitation about including futuristic  drug culture, too.  Very believable stuff.  It could make a very good film.	2000-06-02
US	50054147	R2PEX3QRB45JLU	0830902732	86124043	Book of Mormon (Revised Authorized Version)	Books	3	5	14	N	N	I don't know.	I write this under the reorganized CJCLDS book heading only because I can't find the non-reorganized one on Amazon.<br />First, Hitler's &quot;My Struggle&quot; is not really in the same realm as this book.  Hitler used  psuedo-science and warped logic to come up with his.  I have heard quite a  number of claims at how American archeology has turned up evidence in  support of The Book of Mormon.  Most of them don't hold much water.  However, most of the counterclaims are difficult to prove as well.  The  account is far too vague to allow easy proving/disproving, and this  vagueness proves nothing as well.  It doesn't claim the Nephites/Lamanites  were decedents of the lost tribes, but offspring of just a few groups of  people during a different period of Middle Eastern history.  There has been  an intriguing trend in the research of ancient American cultures: that many  of them were devastated by massive civil wars - something TBOM has a lot  of.  There is also growing evidence that certain western and eastern old  world cultures had some kind of contact with the Americas in ancient times.  These are some recent weird correlations, but again it proves  nothing.<br />What I find most interesting is the system of spiritual  witnessing that is described in it.  It is by far the most faithful (no pun  intended) recreation of what the Bible relays from early Christian  writings.  The &quot;burning in the bosom and peace in the mind&quot; is  identical to that described in the New Testament when it tells of apostles  realizing Jesus had just been walking with them and must have been  resurrected as prophesied.  I am aware of NO OTHER such consistency in any  other Christian religion.  As such, it may be that the CJCLDS is indeed the  most accurate recreation of the original Christian religion(s).<br />However,  like Frank, I too have questioned the reliability of this emotive  &quot;witness to the heart&quot;, as well as the second, further  &quot;witness to the mind&quot; which occurs later when the truth is  &quot;known&quot; directly to the mind in a focused, euphoric, independent  manner.  It could very well be that this is some form of psychological  conditioning.  The emotive form occurs, in my experience, only after one  has the extreme desire for it to be true and it has been pre-described.  The later knowledge/perceptual form occurs after one has been through trial  and feels as though they have stayed true to their testimony.  All of this  is described verbatim in TBOM and other church texts.  Is this: a  coincidence; indication that Joseph Smith simply experienced the  biochemical, psychological phenomenon of early Christian conversion; or an  indication of real divinity?  I don't know.  Because of *this* question,  Mormon parallels to classical Free Masonry, and the CJCLDS's tendency to  preach against such &quot;dangerous doubting&quot; and intellectualizing, I  remain an inactive and hesitant member at the moment.ot; which occurs later when the truth is  &quot;known&quot; directly to the mind in a focused, euphoric, independent  manner.  It could very well be that this is some form of psychological  conditioning.  The emotive form occurs, in my experience, only after one  has the extreme desire for it to be true and it has been pre-described.   The later knowledge/perceptual form occurs after one has been through trial  and feels as though they have stayed true to their testimony.  All of this  is described verbatim in TBOM and other church texts.  Is this: a  coincidence; indication that Joseph Smith simply experienced the  biochemical, psychological phenomenon of early Christian conversion; or an  indication of real divinity?  I don't know.  Because of *this* question,  Mormon parallels to classical Free Masonry, and the CJCLDS's tendency to  preach against such &quot;dangerous doubting&quot; and intellectualizing, I  remain an inactive and hesitant member at the moment.	2000-06-02
US	50054147	R3L99CHJ5P9AJP	0871318792	730932494	False Witness: The Real Story of Jim Garrison's Investigation and Oliver Stone's Film JFK	Books	2	73	112	N	N	INFLAMITORY AND SOMEWHAT MISGUIDED	First: Oliver Stone's \\"JFK\\" was only partially inspired by Jim Garrison's memoirs.  It was partly based on the Newman research and often used the Clay Shaw trial more as backdrop for these somewhat similar theories.<br /><br />Second: Jim Garrison did not find evidence of direct assassination participation of current employees of the intelligence, military, law enforcement, and judicial community.  Rather he found evidence that these groups seemed to have been mostly negligent and desirous of covering up their negligence. The main groups thought involved were Cuban-exiles, right-wing militia members (the rabidly pro-Israel types, not Nazis), and agent level former intelligence recruitees (i.e. former non-operative level puppets). Mafia and wealthy bankers were thought to have possibly provided some support.  The assassination was supposedly caused by blow-back as a result of the failed Bay of Pigs invasion JFK had publicly taken responsibility for.  Modern records actually prove the CIA had disobeyed his orders in the planning of the operation to include air-support.<br /><br />Third: As Garrison's case proceeded, the Clay Shaw ties became murky in light of the actual player's and event's increasingly apparent complexity.  In the end, the prosecution seemed a little obsessed with Clay Shaw.  Even Stone's flawed film alluded to this.  However, even the judge in the case himself later said he thought something suspicious had happened and Shaw was probably involved.<br /><br />Fourth: If you want to talk about lawyer control of the police, let's discuss New Orleans District Attorney Harry Connick (father of Harry Connick Jr., musician), rival and successor of Jim Garrison.  He ordered a police officer to destroy notes and papers from the Shaw trial.  The officer disobeyed and stored these articles of historical importance in his attic for over 20 years.  When the Assassination Records Review Board, started by Bush and funded by Clinton, made its way to New Orleans, the officer attempted to give them the notes and papers after Connick publically promised to hand over everything but further claimed Garrison's people had destroyed much of it.  Connick's fellow judge and associate Frank Marullo threw the former cop in jail and attempted to do the same with the only reporter in New Orleans who'd listen to the story.  The Board eventually received the historical documents and the wrongfully imprisoned were released.  As far as I know, the only news station which aired this story was the reporter's own local one.  I am not aware of any national coverage of this except in one piece of obscure journalists' rights literature.  In reality, many of the accusers of Jim Garrison had ties with the same media companies which refused to stay objective on the trial and later apologized for their conduct; NBC and company come to mind.<br /><br />Fifth: False Witness seems to polarize and filter information on the subject, choosing some questionable sources to quote.  It also tends to rely more on inflammatory alleged accounts than actual physical evidence - worse than the somewhat deficient Shaw trial.  There is also sparse discussion on the strange disappearance and destruction of evidence shortly after the assassination.<br /><br />Final Words: I cannot wholly recommend this emotionally charged book.  I have a difficult time coming to any final conclusion on the JFK assassination.  It's important to keep gathering evidence and accounts, paying particular attention to views and theories held by past and present parties.  We will be able to have a more complete dialog on the subject when pertinent material is released from the National Archives on the specified date.  Even then, one need remember that the CIA admitted during the congressional Church Committee hearings (MK-Ultra & Bluebird human experimentation, rogue ops using religious extremists & the mob, Watergate, etc) to having destroyed a very large portion of its most sensitive and classified documents.  Yet, out of the small portion of relatively benign documentation which remained came evidence of serious ethical violations, and suggestions of illegal acts.  It makes me wonder what information was contained in the documents they were actually compelled to destroy.ed documents.  Yet, out of the small portion of relatively benign documentation which remained came evidence of serious ethical violations, and suggestions of illegal acts.  It makes me wonder what information was contained in the documents they were actually compelled to destroy.	2000-05-27
US	50054147	R1NW0UKND7BNGE	0446671002	58848637	The Celestine Prophecy: An Adventure	Books	1	6	12	N	N	&quot;oh the world is full of stupid people...&quot;	I am continuously amazed at how many people are willing to give in to irrational ideals that make them feel better about themselves. Alas, many of these persons look down upon critical thinking as being close-minded and  cut-off from God. They are sheep, and members of a not so elite flock that  is herded to and fro according to the ramblings of a psychopathic  megalomaniac, or a fool. This time a fool only because he and his forbears  got there first. A coincidence I am thankful for.	2000-01-25
US	50054147	R2QGISU5LLAHX2	0446604046	614982455	Encounter with Tiber	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Detailed and Engrossing Science Fiction	There is so much realistic technical and socioeconomic detail in this work that even if the rest had been mediocre it would still have been involving. Yet not only did it succeed in the other departments, but I found some  deeply moving moments in this book. It also has an excellent philosophical  perspective on space exploration and expansionism that properly portrays  the sort of civilization that humankind could likely encounter.	2000-01-25
US	50054147	R3DKFL0WVQ0E8W	0515112321	93935533	Cadillac Flight	Books	5	6	6	N	N	AWESOME	This is a superb novel based on the Republic F-105 Thunderchief (THUD) pilots in Vietnam. Astounding level of accuracy	1997-08-21
