US	50051683	R10WGD9IO82YKL	0061010901	203053226	The Way of the Traitor	Books	5	5	5	N	Y	Excellent Story	I first read The Way of the Traitor several years ago and found it quite interesting.  Now, as I write this review, I am sitting in a computer cafe in Nagasaki.   <br /> <br />Rowland's plot is quite good.  Sano has found himself essentially exiled from Edo by his unintended rival the Shogun's Chamberlin.  He is given the task of \\"inspecting\\" Nagasaki which is just about as far from Edo as you can go and still be in Japan.  Given the state of transportation systems in Japan during the Shogunate, it is possible the chamberlain was hoping Sano wouldn't survive the journey. <br /> <br />Nagasaki is Japan's window to the world and it is tightly guraded and only open a crack.  The only authorized westerners in Japan are the Dutch and the are kept on a small man-made island in the harbor.  Origianlly the concession was given to the Portugese who along with trade brough Christianity and this ultimately lead to the banning of Christian teachings, the expulsion of the Portugese and the persecution of Japanese Christians.  The Dutch have filled the void left by the departed Portugese becasue they aren't interested in spreading the gospel, just@making profits on their investments. They can't leave the island unescorted and no Japanese can enter except on official business.  To even go on the island one is required to take and oath against Christianity and desecrate Christian icons.  The penalty for not adhering to the oath is severe - death. <br /> <br />Sano's arival coincides with the disappearance of one of the Dutch trading mission from the island.  It is this investigation which Sano finds himself involved with that almost cost Sano his life in several different ways.   <br /> <br />The plot is well set out.  The are a large number of potential suspects ranging from@the surviving Dutch traders to a Chinese religious leader to corrupt local officals.  It is not an easy trail for Sano to follow and Rowland makes the sidetracks and false leads quite intriguing.  The conclusion to the investigation is excellently done. <br /> <br />I have read this book several times and have found it just as entertaining now as when I first got it.  Now reading it in Nagasaki it is almost like being in a time warp.  Looking at the Nagasaki of today, it is easy to not see the houses clustering on the hills around the city and to see it as it was in the late 17th Century.  It is a hot, humid and foggy night as I sit here writing - just the right conditions for a stranger to the city to look for a murderer who might be any one of a number of people.  <br /> <br />Rowland is an exceptional story teller.  She  <br />weaves an exceptional tale of the very narrow meeting point between Japan and the rest of the world.  I highly recommend this book to anyone who likes history interlaced with their fiction. <br /> <br />	2005-07-03
US	50051683	R34REWNUUOQCTO	1590130278	612079722	The Horizon (The Royal Marines Saga)	Books	5	21	21	N	N	Excellent treatment of little known aspect of World War One	The Horizon is the third volume of the Blackwood series.  In this book we meet Jonathan Blackwood as he and the Royal Marines learn to adapt themselves to the new ways of war in World War I.  Jonathan is a Royal Marine from a long line of Royal Marines - two of whom have won the Victoria Cross, the highest decoration for valor in combat in the British awards scheme.  His family is known throughout the Royal Marines it is sometimes something of a disadvantage.    Jonathan has been an observor on the Western Front but his experiences are not always appreciated by Royal Marines senior to him and without his experience.  1915 finds Jonathan and his men are on the beach at Gallipoli fighting the Turks in a no quarter given or asked for war.  The Royal Marines are clinging to scraps of ground, loosing men constantly to snipers, booby traps and fruitless battles.  Jonathan is wounded as he tries to prevent his own ships from shelling is men and is returned to Great Britain.    He recuperates and meets a young woman as he does so.  The wrinkle is that this woman loved his older brother who died early in World War I.  Yet they both learn to love one another in a world that is turned upside down.    After he is recovered from his wounds, Jonathan is sent to a newly activated battalion of Royal Marines bound for the Western Front.  Now it is 1917 and the vast majority of the British Army is located in France and Flanders.   Here is the real war now that the running sore of Gallipoli has been ended.  The Royal Marines are mixed in with the British Army and both need to adjust to the forced marriage.  Here on the Western Front the same problems face Jonathan as at Gallipoli - the losses of men due to enemy snipers, raids and assaults that are expected to gain miles of ground and end up gaining only yards, if that. It is as if the generals have gotten to the point where all they can do is throw more men into battle - that is all they seem to know.    Reeman has captured the grinding despair of Gallipoli and France.  You can almost feel the heat of Gallipoli and the smell of rotting corpses (British, ANZAC and Turk).  You can hear the sound of sniper shot and flies.  You can almost feel the penetrating cold of the mud of France as the men stand in it day after day.  As they assault prepared positions with little hope of success.      Few probably know of the exploits of the Royal Marines and Royal Navy in the trenches of France and Flanders during World War I - they have been overshadowed by the sheer weight of numbers of the British and Commonwealth Armies.  Yet serve they did with great distinction.  They Royal Navy Volunteer Reserve had many more men than ships and so created a division of sailors who served as infantrymen from 1914 through to the end of the war - The Royal Naval Division.  They traded in thier blue bell bottom trousers and ships for khaki and mud.    I recommend this book as a must read for those involved in the story of the Blackwood family.  It is also an excellent book on it's own as a book about World War I by a very special segment of the British forces.  It is an excellent work giving great detail about the campaings in Gallipoli and France.  It is well written with exceptional charecters - from generals down to newly recruited Royal Marines who have barely learned how to shave.  It is a powerful book.	2003-08-18
US	50051683	R2CQ71EJR8Q3NT	0099062607	463155509	H.M.S. Saracen	Books	5	8	8	N	Y	A tale of two wars	In 1915 HMS Saracen was a new and untried weapon sent to attempt to change the tide in the Dardenalles, which was decidedly against the British.  She was designed to fire battleship sized shells far inland to support the army ashore.  Also, new and untried was Midshipman Chesney, son of a former Naval officer who had left the Royal Navy under a cloud.  Young Chesney is viewed by some as a traditional son of the Royal Navy while to some he is seen as a different sort of future naval officer - a young man who cares about the men entrusted to his leadership.  Both SARACEN and Chesney distinguish themselves at Gallipoli but to little avail.  At the end of 1915, the British evacuate the peninsula.  By this time, SARACEN and Chesney have both returned to the UK, wounded.<br />25 years later, ship and man are reuninted.  In the interim, SARACEN had become outmoded and out dated.  Chesney has been put on the beach in an economic retrenchment that saw hundreds of naval officers end their careers prematurely.  Chesney had ended up in New Zealand selling farm implements until 1939 and the start of World War II, when he returned to the UK and rejoined the Royal Navy.  After several assignments in the UK, Chesney was sent to the Mediterranean where he was to take command of SARACEN.  By this time a ship with no real role except to do the odd jobs required in war, moving troops, cargo, fuels everything except shell the enemy far inland.  The crew was demoralized and the officers were not much better.  Most of the crew and officers were serving their time.  If the were regulars, waiting until something better came along and if they were reservists, wondering what kind of navy they were in - serving in a large slow target that could not really fight and certainly couldn't run away from trouble if it were encountered.<br />Chesney undertook to change the ship and crew; with mixed results.  A few officers backed his efforts while senior officials wondered if Chesney was not fit to command.  He proved his fitness while escorting a convoy of ships from Alexandria to Malta.<br />The conclusion of the book is one that is quite a moving one in that it is delivered by a third person.  The character involved at the conclusion is a surprise and yet, given the history of Chesney and the ship, not unsurprising.  I think it works very well.  It is sad but at the same time is another defining moment in the lives of the ship and the man.<br />Reeman draws on his naval experience in this theater of the war and uses it quite well.  His characters are all very believeable and play their assigned roles well.  <br />I highly recommend this book to anyone with an interest in the Royal Navy and the campaigns it waged in the Mediterranean in the 20th Century.	2003-03-07
US	50051683	R160WY3VC16Z0D	1557504466	332163620	The Sand Pebbles (Bluejacket Books)	Books	5	7	8	N	Y	An unknown facet of the US Navy comes to light and life.	The Sand Pebbles is the story of a small ship, on a small river deep in the heart of China.  Unknown by most of the rest of the world but home to the crew of the ship.  McKenna, a former Asiatic Fleet Sailor, describes life in the river gunboats of the 1920s with an accuracy and authenticity that is amazing.  I could almost feel the heat of the engines and the aromas from the galley.<br />The book is a study of men in the Navy.  They are far from the public eye, doing a job deemed essential by someone in Washington.  They are essentially feared by the Chinese and despised by the American missionaries they come into contact with.  It must have been a brutal emotional duty to carry out.  Yet many men loved it.  They spent their careers on the rivers and retired there when their time was up in the Navy.<br />Jake Holman, the central figure, is not better or worse than most other Sailors of that time.  His motivation for joining the Navy were &quot;...Army, Navy or reform school...&quot; and so into the Navy he went.  He is a competent machinest mate but has few real people skills.  He is a loner on the outskirts of the Navy world.  He has bounced from ship to ship and has now reached the end of the line.  But even Holman makes friends in the ship as he tries to adapt to his surroundings.<br />It is an interesting look at the gunboat navy.  The crew did military duties and drills but the day to day ship's husbandry were done by Chinese men.  Is it any wonder the crew loved China duty once they got there.<br />One might say that the conclusion of the book is confusing and leaves you feeling troubled.  Well it fits with the mission of the gunboat sailors and I think is perfect.  Antiimperialists may condem the book and the subject but it was a real part of the American Navy and deserves to be remembered and respected.	2002-08-01
US	50051683	R79433R5RADVQ	0060199334	578821021	The Bride's Kimono	Books	5	4	4	N	Y	Another fine story by Sujata Massey	This is the latest of Sujata Massey's Rei Shimura adventures.  This time, Mrs. Massey takes Rei from Tokyo to Washington DC and it is a winning move.  <br />Nothing is really simple for Rei as she is asked to be a courier of priceless antique kimono from a Japanese museum to one in Washington, DC.  She has to get the kimono to their desitination intact and ready for exhibition and this is no easy task.  It doesn't get any easier when the receiving museum causes additional stresses by refusing to accept one kimono and this forces Rei to become it's minder and then when it disappears, it becomes her task to recover it.  Along the way, Rei meets an old boy friend, discovers she has been robbed of passport and return ticket to Japan and must contend with the death of one of her traveling companions - in fact the woman she had as a seat mate from Japan to DC.<br />This is a great tale that includes the background workings of museums in both Japan and America.  It is also another revealing study of Japanese customs and traditions.  <br />We are given a chance to meet Rei's parents, and I for one, was quite impressed by both of them.  Rei's mother reminds me of my own mother-in-law in some ways.  So on this level I was able to get a little more enmeshed in the book.  We also learn more about Rei only from her parent's perspective and that is helpful in rounding out the charecter.  Mrs. Massey does a fine job in this respect.<br />Mrs. Massey's excellent descriptions of Washington are a big plus in this book.  You get the feeling that you are walking along the streets in Georgetown or Adams Morgan along with Rei.  <br />This book, like all the others, doesn't telegraph the criminal elements.  There are a couple of decoys that you meet and wonder, what evil deed are they up to, but you discover you're wrong and this are just passing unpleasant charecters that add to the overall tone of the book.  Mrs. Massey's books are ones that I don't automatically read the last chapter first.  I start from page one and work my way through it, like Rei and everyone else.  It was one that once I started, I was reluctant to put it down.<br />I recommend this book to all of Mrs. Massey's fans and to those who may just be discovering her writing.  This is another excellent book by an exceptionally talented mystery writer. I hope everyone enjoys it as much as I did.	2002-04-03
US	50051683	RLK8TIQ084TG4	1580800467	388503446	The Cruel Sea (Classics of War)	Books	5	15	16	N	Y	Man versus the sea - the real war	The Cruel Sea is perhaps the finest novel written out of World War II.  It is drawn on the actual service in the Royal Navy of the author.  It is the story of two ships, maybe 200 men, German submarines and the constant relentless ocean.  Even when there is no combat action, the sea is always there in all its forms - just waiting for a small defect to occurr and then it will claim another victim - be it man or ship.<br />The sailors of the Compass Rose are a dramatic cross section.  The captain is a reservist from the merchant navy while his officers are all volunteers from the civilian sector.  One officer's only sea going experience is crossing the channel in a small yacht with a one woman crew.  Not the best of material.<br />The crew is even more diverse.  The senior ratings, coxswain, signalman, engineer and several others, are all professional Royal Navy and it is one these men the captain will lean the most.  The remainder of the crew is drawn from all walks of life from clerks to vet assistants.  Together they are all molded into a working crew.<br />The contacts with the German submarines are numerous but the end result is disappointing to some in that only two submarines are sunk between the two ships.  Lots of survivors are pulled from the sea though as the submarines whittle away at the convoys chugging across the sea.<br />One gets a sense of the unending grind that the men endure as the ships make thier rounds from Liverpool to New York with a side trip to Russia for variety.  Even shore time is not enjoyed as the local Liverpool area is pounded by German bombers and wives and girlfriends are not willing to endure the constant seperation.<br />Compass Rose is sunk and the crew, once more, is held together by the captain.  Some men are heros and die a heros death and others are simply freightened men trying to stay alive which few do.  It is a sobering time for the survivors as they look back at their life in Compass Rose.<br />The captain and one officer move on to another ship and finish the war in her.  Again, it is a return to the grind of fighting the sea and occassionally fighting the Germans.  One submarine is sunk by the new ship and the war ends.  <br />There is little glory to be earned in this story, rather it is a tale of survival, hanging on to make it through the day or night.  Everyone is a hero in this story from the junior sailor to the captain.  It is a story that is being remembered less and less as the survivors of World War II diminish in numbers.  It is a story to be read and remembered - when there was no array of electronic weapons and nuclear energy to draw upon to destroy an enemy; rather it was skill, patience, persistance and a willingness to endure that saw a successful outcome from a combat between corvette and submarine.  Sometimes the corvette won and sometimes the submarine won.  Many times it was a draw.<br />I highly recommend this book to anyone with an interest in the war at sea during World War II.  It should be in every naval officer's personal library regardless of nationality.  Once read, it should never be forgotten.	2002-03-20
US	50051683	R6APNQWR3O5PL	034544003X	460838900	Southampton Row (Charlotte & Thomas Pitt Novels)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	A superb read	Southampton Row continues the story of Pitt's fight against the Inner Circle.  Now we see that the shadows of this group are becoming flesh and blood and the power that the body weilds is much clearer and directed towards Pitt in particular.<br />The story involves Pitt becoming involved in an election process that will return Gladstone to power although it is early made clear that this will be a short lived government and that what is really going on is positioning for the next election.  Perry's grasp of the British election process of the 1890s is excellent and the attention to detail extremely important.<br />By products of the election are the death of a spirit medium, a bishop doubting God and changing personal relationships.  We also see the developement of Pitt's former superior, Cornwallis into something more than a former Naval officer.  Tellman has moved up in the police world and is now an inspector.  Pitt is bounced again from Bow Street and resumes working for the Special Branch and it's shadowland of combating treachery against the state.  It is a little strange that in order to combat the Inner Circle and its shadowy operation, Pitt has found himself working for the very organization that would like to put the Inner Circle down.  Pitt is shown to be out of his element in this area but when survival counts, he learns quickly.<br />Charlotte and the family are smaller elements in this story.  It is to be hoped that the author remembers her audience base and gives Charlotte a greater role in up-coming books.  However, being a mother in the 1890s, raising two children and running a home somewhat cut into crime solving time.  It remains to be seen how Ms. Perry makes this situation work.<br />This is a fine read for those interested in pure mystery and late Victorian social issues.  However, if a reader is looking for how Charlotte gets invovled, it will not be up to their expectations.  In all, I found this to be a fascinating story and one that I will revisit.	2002-03-18
US	50051683	R25AL7HFSB2PYY	1590130006	181685270	Relentless Pursuit (The Bolitho Novels)	Books	5	56	57	N	N	The Royal Navy and a Quasi Peace	Alexander Kent is now depicting the Royal Navy without a defined enemy and the impact this is having on it.  Without a belligerent France across the Channel, the strength of the navy is slashed to the bone and beyond.<br />Adam Bolitho is still in command of the frigate Unrivalled only now is dealing with ships packed to overflowing with Africans en-route to slavery and with North African pirates.  Neither of these opponents are giving much concern to politicians and merchant bankers of Great Britain, except in so far as they are accumulating wealth from the transport and auction of slaves.  The man in the street knows little about this and cares less.<br />It is this apathy of the public that the Royal Navy in general and Adam in particular must battle.  It might be easy to die for your country when the enemy is French or Spanish, but when it is a slave runner, the concept becomes a little vague.  Fighting in the Bay of Biscay is one thing, fighting in the Bight of Benin is something else entirely.<br />Kent creates the atmosphere of these times with great care.  You are faced with seamen, tossed onto the beach without thought, after being through tremendous hardship and danger.  You are also faced with the families that they had left behind and now must support in some form or fashion.  Also, there is the aristocracy, both of society and the Royal Navy that must be maintained.  These features never go away.  One would think that the needs of the Naval aristocracy would decrease as the Navy shrinks - far from it!<br />Adam Bolitho is a complex man and as I learn more about him, I can see this.  From a bastard orphan to a successful naval officer, we have seem him evolve.  Yet he is still dogged by his origins - he has never forgotten the days as a youngster fending for himself as his mother became unable to care and support him.  <br />This is a book without the flash and thunder of a fleet action.  Now it is a series of actions between schooners and sloops and oared launches.  Adam's ship is too big and powerful to be of decisive value except as a resevoir from which to draw men to man the smaller ships.  It is this type of action that is honing the skills of the men of Unrivalled and preparing them for the ultimate combat with African pirates.<br />Throughout the book, we are reintroduced to charecters of the past, Thomas Herrick, Daniel Yovel, Graeme Bethune and others.  We see an appearance by Richard's daughter Elizabeth as she starts to connect to Adam for after all, in spite of birth situation, he is her closest surviving relative and vice versa.<br />This book is a continuation of the Bolitho family saga.  It continues to add to what we know of the family, even if it is only in small details, such as the name of Adam's mother.  I found it thoroughly enjoyable and a fine addition to my library.  I would recommend it to anyone who has read even a few of the preceeding books on the Bolitho family.	2002-02-26
US	50051683	R3K3O62NYRJ385	0689109326	170200603	To the honor of the fleet	Books	5	5	5	N	Y	Cloak and Daggers at sea!	To the Honor of the Fleet is a superb book about the activities of two US Navy officers as they work with oppossing forces in the prelude to American entry into World War I.  <br />The author skillfully takes you from the dining room of Assistant Secretary of the Navy Franklin D. Roosevelt to the ships of the Imperial German Navy and the Royal Navy in the years prior to the entry of the United States into World War I.  He also takes you behind the scenes at the White House of Woodrow Wilson as he strives to keep the United States out of the fighting in Europe and the Admiralty of Admiral of the Fleet Sir John (Jacky) Fisher.  It is a story of intelligence gathering by US Navy officers that is vital to both warring countries and the dilemas that the officers who are attached to the respective fleets feel as they discuss and analyze what they've learned.  It is a story that once you get into, it is very difficult to get away from.  It is a story of suspicion and doubt and jumping to conclusions based on a faulty analysis of the available information.  <br />The author is equally at home in Roosevelt's dining room as he is in the magazine of a German battleship.  He describes events of high drama over the dining room table or in the midst of a battle with excellent attention to detail and atmosphere.  You will get the feeling that you are right there with the charecters.<br />The charecters are all well developed.  The author does a fine job of mixing real people with his fictional charecters and making it hard to remember which is which.  The action realistic.  Youo can almost smell the gases from the guns and funnels of the ships as they fire at one another.  You also get a feel for the emotions and prejudices of the officer class of the US Navy.<br />It is a fine book that deals with a period that little if any writing has been done for the general reading public.  It will interest those with a maritime interest as well as those with an interest in diplomacy and spying which might pass for diplomacy.<BR>I highly recommend this book.	2002-02-05
US	50051683	R22Q0A4V5FB43H	0333156560	134688675	Invitation to a Dynamite Party	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A great tale!	Sgt. Cribb and his hard working assistant, Constable Thackery and whisked away from their regular duties to a special mission of combating terrorism, 1880s style.  Sgt. Cribb is given a quick course in explosives and then infiltrates a terrorist organization.  Thackery is the link between Cribb and their superiors but still manages to find himself in the thick of things.<br />This story has everything from training in demolitions at Woolwich Arsenal, terrorist organizations and counter-terrorist tactics and  early submarine developement.  You will quickly become immersed in the story and will forget time and place.  Lovesey does an excellent job of blending all of these various subjects and characters into a coherent and entertaining story.  The mastermind of the organization, bent on attacking British royalty is quite a surprising charecter and one you would not ordinarily suspect.  <br />I thoroughly enjoyed this book and recommend it to anyone who has an interest in 19th century fiction.  You don't have to have read previous Cribb mysteries, Lovesey does an excellent charecter developement in a few pages that will bring the beginner right up to speed.  It will whet your appetite for more Cribb books.	2002-01-31
US	50051683	R288CTJ156D8EN	0679444548	451444491	The Choir	Books	5	15	15	N	N	A gripping story of passion and religion	Joanna Trollope introduces us to a small British city with a cathedral that dates back to before Henry VIII and all that goes in making this building a living, breathing entity.  Trollope does a fine job of setting the mood in the first few pages.<br />As one would suspect, caring for a building which was first built in the 15 or 16th century requires a great deal of funds.  Unfortunately the structure has not stood the test of time and major reconstruction is needed to save the building.  Where to get the money for this not-inexpensive undertaking is the task that the dean of the Cathedral faces.  The political manuverings to save the structure are all consuming for this man.  He will do almost anything to keep the building but what he has forgotten is that it will be just that - a building, but one without a soul.  The soul of the cathedral is it's choir and it is this that the dean proposes to dispense with to divert funds from the upkeep of the choir to the upkeep of the building.  What he doesn't bargin for it the opposition of this idea that erupts from the cathedral school in the form of the headmaster and a few long time members of the school board and the choirmaster.<br />The opposition is quite an interesting group, from the headmaster who is a respectable priest married to an independent and strong-willed woman, to the choirmaster who is divoreced and at the school at all, only by good fortune and the suffereance of the dean of the cathedral. Their professional and personal lives are quite well detailed and totally beliveable.  I found myself wondering who the models for these charecters were.<br />We see town politics interjected as well as the grandfather of one of the boys has set his eye on obtaining church property for use by town as a social service office.  He is portrayed as a late in years Labourite, still at war with elitest organizations and sees the church as a prime example of this class distinction.  Set in the height of Margaret Thatcher's Conservative government in Britain, it is a small scale depiction of the events that took place throughout the country as Conservatism rearranged the social fabric of the country.<br />Trollope does a masterful job of taking a subject that is little known in this country, the Anglican Church, and introducing us to this organization.  She also makes her characters believable and interesting.  I found myself unable to leave the book - it bears the scars of being read while I was inhaling both the book and fast foods. I first read the book several years ago and have read several times since then.  It is a book I never tire of reading and discover things I missed each time I do.  I highly recommend this book to all with an interest in the social and religious fabric of Great Britain.er's Conservative government in Britain, it is a small scale depiction of the events that took place throughout the country as Conservatism rearranged the social fabric of the country.<br />Trollope does a masterful job of taking a subject that is little known in this country, the Anglican Church, and introducing us to this organization.  She also makes her characters believable and interesting.  I found myself unable to leave the book - it bears the scars of being read while I was inhaling both the book and fast foods. I first read the book several years ago and have read several times since then.  It is a book I never tire of reading and discover things I missed each time I do.  I highly recommend this book to all with an interest in the social and religious fabric of Great Britain.	2002-01-31
US	50051683	R3T6I1ZJ9DJP5Y	0312205503	529909939	Hemingway's Chair	Books	5	10	11	N	N	A story that might be any of us	Hemingway's Chair is the story of a man who is a true fan of Ernest Hemingway and how this passion percolates through his life.  Martin is an assistant postmaster in a small English town.  He doesn't own a car, he uses a bike.  He lives with his mother.  In short a man who would seem to be quite constrained in his outlook.  But this passion for Hemingway is quite at odds with the man we would pass in the street or buy stamps from at the post office.  It is this passion that feeds the story that Palin tells with great skill.<br />The writing of Michael Palin is quite at odds with the man of Monty Python skits.  For me, Palin struck a chord that might be there in all of us.  A desire to be in the same room with a great figure.  Palin's charecter to me, doesn't want to be Hemingway, rather he would be quite happy just being in the same room with him.  Seeing him, listening to him, basking in the relected glory of the man.  Is this a religious zeal?  I don't think so.  Rather it is almost a love of the man and all he stands for.<br />Palin's cahrecters are all believeable.  We all know the bustling new boss who wants to drag a perfectly serviceable work situation into the fast lane of the GPO.  To him, this is his opportunity to excel and move up the ladder of success.  No matter that there are people already in place who have long service in one office, know all the customers, thier children and their varied stories.  To the boss, this is of no value; streamline, moderinize and economize are his watchwords.  I don't like him.  He ignores the history of the people around him and the place in which he is in the process of destroying.  The rest of the charecters are just as true to life, including the American woman who intrudes on Martin's life and eventually awakens in him a Hemingwayesque way of dealing with the turmoil that has so changed his life.<br />I found this to be a book that made me think, not just about Palin's charecter, but my own outlook on life.  It is not a book for someone who is looking for a printed version of the goofy charecters from Palin's sketches.  Rather it is a thought provoking book that will make you sit and think afterwards and even during your reading of it.  This is not a quick read but it is engrossing.  It is a book, I hope that people will revisit periodically for a recharge in their batteries, the better to deal with reality.	2002-01-24
US	50051683	R2X46VNYL1KJHH	0333110692	110988129	Wobble to Death	Books	5	33	33	N	N	A very unusual venue for a murder	Lovesey puts Cribb and Thackery on the trail of a killer at a long distance walk race.  An unusual setting for a murder but then passion and greed aren't very selective emotions.  I read this book years ago and just read it again.  It is just as good now as it was 15 years ago.  Lovesey's attention to detail is excellent - you are fed a lot of information to put the setting into context and you don't even know that you are getting a social history lesson.  The charecters are well defined and believeable, from the organizer of the race down to the competitor who fades quickly from the race.  <br />There are lots of suspects and lots of motives and how Cribb and Thackery sort them out is great to read.  One gets a tremendously amusing picture of Thackery conducting an interview on the run, as it were, with the competitors in his wool suit, bowler hat and regulation boots - and him not an athletic person.  Cribb continues as the brains of the team and his determination is prevented from being an obsession, in the readers view, by the unintentional humor he injects, usually at Thackery's expense.  Even though at times Thackery gets exasperated with his boss, there is a respect and willingness to serve that keeps the team together.<br />This is a fine Victorian mystery novel that is a great read from start to finish.  I highly recommend it.	2002-01-24
US	50051683	R1N9KESQFBDC72	0770109217	520021721	Speak Softly	Books	5	0	0	N	Y	TR as crime fighter - Bully!	Alexander has taken a segment of Theodore Roosevelt's life and done wonders with it.  As a police commissioner of New York City, Roosevelt was a mover and shaker and not too popular in some quarters of city government.  The author takes this period of TR's life and builds a great tale of 19th century crime.  <br />In the first chapter you get a good taste of what it was like to be a child in TR's household as TR is having an interview with his son's teacher.  The latter is trying to explain that it might help TR's son if dad was a little less invovled with the details of his homework assignment.  TR's \\"you're taking all the fun out of it\\" sums up his eternal quest to be a boy again. This seems to sum up TR quite nicely - the adult striving to recapture the best moments of his youth.  Maybe this applies to all of us?<br />You also meet the towering figures in the construction of early US submarines, John Holland and Simon Lake.  Lake's submarine is stolen so we see a bit of industrial espionage 19th century style as well as plain old fashion murder.<br />You will meet various and sundry of the extended Roosevelt family of several generations.  Franklin D. makes and appearence.<br />This is a good detective novel to sit down with.  It flows well and informs as well as entertains, but you don't really catch on to the history lessons being delivered.  I came to this book more with an interest in TR than in the detective mystery, but I think the author does a fine job of inserting TR into a mystery and doing it well.  I highly recommend this book to any mystery buff, without reservation.	2002-01-23
US	50051683	R2X92IPYISNMYA	0449003183	412648820	Brunswick Gardens (Charlotte & Thomas Pitt Novels)	Books	5	10	11	N	Y	An insight into Thomas Pitt.	Brunswick Garden is a story that is set in the home of a highly placed religious scholar.  A death there brings Pitt to investiage.  However, before Pitt even gets more than a brief glimpse of what has happened, pressure is brought to bear from the government and Church of England to reach a quick conclusion with as little public fanfare a possible.  This sets Pitt onto a path that is even more determined to be thorough and as painstaking as possible; he shows he will not be dictated to as he carries out his investigation.<br />As he enters deeper into the household, he discovers that he has crossed paths with his brother-in-law Dominic Cord - a man Charlotte, Pitt's wife, was infatuated with as a teenager and young woman.  His return to their life rekindles Charlotte's thoughts of him and also restokes Pitt's resentment towards him.  The fact that he is a suspect makes it harder for Pitt to remain purely objective because of the inner resentment he feels against Dominic.  This situation makes Pitt more human and believeable.  If I met a man in the course of my work, who was once the object of my wife's adoration, I'd have a hard time staying neutral and not resenting the hell out of him too.  Perry catches this emotional load that Pitt has to bear exactly right.<br />Throughout the book, emotions are barely under the surface.  From Charlotte's renewed attention to Dominic, Pitt's resentment of Dominic and Charlotte, religious beliefs etc., there is an current that is almost palpable and real.  Where these emotions lead is surprising as well as sad.  In one case, these is the start of an affection that can only be returned obliquely and indirectly, not as it should be.  While Tellman and Gracie continue thier somewhat eccentric courtship - neither has recognized thier true feelings for the other or if they have, they are reluctant to admit them, to themselves and to each other.<br />This is a book that I found on par with Perry's other writings.  This gives us a newdevelopement of Pitt's charecter - we see his emotions and his own insecurities quite vividly.  I think it goes a long way to giving background and depth to the relationship of Charlotte and Thomas, making them more believeable as people.  I highly recommend this book to all Perry fans.	2002-01-21
US	50051683	RAEVGJOFA61W3	1877853127	674191954	Pursuit of the Seawolf	Books	5	11	11	N	Y	Exceptional depiction of the Atlantic War	Pursuit of the Seawolf is a continuation of the story of the destroyer OLEARY after it has arrived back in the US following the defeat and destruction of the Asiatic Fleet in the opening months of World War II.  Now the OLEARY is being refitted as a convoy escort - fewer boilers but more fuel and ammunition.      The author captures the Atlantic exactly right.  It was more the enemy than German submarines and aircraft.  He brings home the risks to the escorts from merchant ships unused to sailing in formation and the disasters that this can create.  He also brings to light the awful conditions faced by ships and escorts in the Caribbean Sea as they moved throught those waters to the Atlantic Seaboard.  The enemy here was not the wind and waves but a highly trained and aggressive German submarine force.  The only redeeming factor was that there weren't enough submarines to do more damage.  In researching a Sailor who had served in four stackers during WWII, I came across the fact that in 1944 his ship was run down by a cargo ship in Norfolk and too badly damaged to be repaired.  The ship had been in the same battles that Admiral Mack is describing in his book.  It made the whole book even more authentic.    The charecters are well created.  Some we have met in South to Java but new people come along to interest us.  The new charecters range from a sailor who has no home but the ship to an officer, short in stature but with a voice that vibrates armor plate.  There are sailors who a few months before were working in oil fields to memebers of the Fleet Reserve who were called back to active service instead of sitting with their grandchildren. All of these people are quite authentic and seem to come to life under the author's pen.      There is a fine depiction of US/USSR relations when OLEARY pulls into Murmansk and the Soviet Navy puts on a dance in their honor to commemorate the opening of a new dance hall.      Later in the book there is a fine description of operations leading up to the invasion of North Africa - Operation Torch and the many obstacles that had to be overcome for that event to take place.  These obstacles ranged from refueling at sea for the first time, the difficulties of finding a replacement for a critical part (that never fails) in the middle of the Atlantic Ocean and dueling with shore guns as the landings take place.     Off duty relations are not neglected by the author.  We see one family with children adjusting to a new school - the third in as many years.  I gew up in a navy family and I had three second grades in one school year.  We see relationships develope between women and several of the crew.  We also see one marriage that doesn't stand the test of war.    The author covers the wide spectrum of a nation at war.  Not only does he describe a Navy expanding on a daily basis and needing more and more men, but the impact of the war on families as they face the rationing process as they try to move cross country from California to Virginia.  He is all encompassing in his treatment of his charecters and he does it well. It is interesting to see one character try to buy a car in war time Norfolk and the trials that process entails.       This is a great book describing early (1942) wartime America and naval operations in the Caribbean, Atlnatic and along the coasts of the US and Africa.  I recommend this book to anyone with an interest in the Naval and social history of our country during World War II.  It is an excellent read and one you will come back to again and again.	2001-12-05
US	50051683	R2X6SF5V84Q4M1	093552648X	382406009	Sloop of War (The Bolitho Novels) (Volume 4)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Action from start to finish	Richard Bolitho has now reached the pinnacle of all naval officer's desires, a command of his own.  Bolitho has had temporary commands in the past, of short duration.  But now, he is given a command all of his own.  Now it is up to him to execute the orders he receives and there is no one to turn to for advice or guidance.  He is the one everyone turns to when in need.<br />The book is set in the middle part of the American war of indepence.  There are no fleet to fleet actions.  Rather it is a sea war of small ships on both sides, schooners, sloops and in the case of the Americans, what ever they can lay their hands on.  It is a campaign of blockade pure and simple.<br />It is also a war of combined or joint operations.  The Navy getting the Army off a hostile shore or transporting them to one.  It is a difficult process in the best of times but for a new captain it is more difficult than usual.<br />Bolitho is a success as a privateer hunter and over the course of the book brings pain and discomfort to those who operate these ships.  Little does he know that some of the discomfort is felt by the very people he and his ship are trying to defend and maintain in power.  This almost costs him his life in more than one instance.<br />Bolitho is also faced with the daunting task of working for a superior Naval officer consumed by a desire for distinction and who will stop at nothing to achive it.  His desires, likewise, almost cost Bolitho his life, and does cost the life of his sistership.<br />There is another person in his crew you come to learn more about and admire or dislike for it.  This is his first lieutenant, an American who has stayed loyal to the crown.  He is hated by the American rebels, his property and friends have all been destroyed by either the British or American forces.  He is not really trusted by the British.  His is a lonely life and as I learned more about him, as the story developed, I found he had a lot that made me admire him.  Kent catches the extreme difficulty of a man in this situation with accuraccy and understanding.  It is a continuing high point of the story.<br />Bolitho's ship misses the one fleet action during this time frame.  Rather he is transporting troops to assist in Cornwallis's defense of Yorktown and arrives too late.  So after almost three years, he is sent back to the United Kingdom and it is with sorrow that he leaves the ship and crew, who have become his friends.<br />Kent delivers a great read.  One I have read and read over the last few decades.  It is one of the first of Kent's books I read and have never forgotten it.  I recommend it to anyone who is interested in the Royal Navy of sail and the American War of Independence as seen from the Royal Navy's point of view.	2001-10-11
US	50051683	RO3YJ7BHRNJEW	0749322527	66730657	Sunset	Books	5	6	6	N	Y	Hong Kong and the Royal Navy before the Pacific exploded	Sunset is the story of an old ship of the Royal Navy, sent from the UK to Hong Kong in early 1941.  It is the story of men sent thousands of miles from a war torn country to a remote segment of the British Empire that seems to be living in a fool's paradise.<br /><br />The ship, HMS Serpent, is manned by the usual spectrum of sailors and officers one might have seen in any ship as the needs of war stretched the manpower pool more and more.  The captain is a retread - wounded during the Spanish Civil War and beached thereafter until the drums of war sounded his recall to the only real life he knew.  A young regular officer who can't wait to get off the ship and on to something better.  A navigator who is a grounded pilot and winner of the Victoria Cross while his shipmates and ship were destroyed by the German Navy.  The senior enlisted members of the crew are diverse and not untroubled either.  The coxswain is tasked with keeping order amongst the sailors when speculation and uncertainty are making everyone nervous.  The senior signalman learns, on the eve of sailing, that his wife and daughter had been killed in an air raid.  A moment of deep sorrow for me came as the members of the chiefs and petty officers mess think about this man's loss and remember that his daughter was baptized in the ship, using the ship's bell as a baptism font.  It is an on-going tradition filled with meaning and significance.  For me, this made the story that much more real.<br /><br />Hong Kong, when the ship reaches it, is a city that is living as if there is not thought of what is going on in Europe or across the border in China.  The Japanese Army and Air Force are all around the territory, yet no one seems to be concerned.  Pink gins and tennis are the order of the day for the British residents and the naval authorities as well.  A few people can foresee the coming disaster but can do little to shake the insulation loose from the governing bodies.  Several incidents involving the ship are a prelude to the events of 8 Dec 1941.  The captain is unable to convince his superiors that trouble is on the way. The crew and officers are used to the ways of the North Atlantic and it takes a scruffy volunteer reserve officer to show them the ways of survival in a totally different style and form of warfare. The transition is not pretty at times.<br /><br />When the crunch comes, the response is panic and disintegration for the British officails in Hong Kong.  HK has no real hope of resisting the Japanese Army but the word from London is no surrender.  A disaster ensues that is still remembered by survivors to this day.<br /><br />The ship does it's best to support the land forces but ultimately is send south to safer waters.  Even leave taking from Hong Kong is not simple.  Friendships have been established and in some cases consummated and it is difficult for the crew to leave the city to it's fate.  Yet they carry out their orders.<br /><br />The final escape for the ship from the ruins of Hong Kong is dramatic and so well written you can feel the tension as the crew pulls together for this potentially final action.  The ship survives but not without loss.<br /><br />I had the opportunity to visit Hong Kong around the same time of year that the book is set.  It was eerie to stand in the temple after hiking up the hill to get it in the monsoonal heat and humidity.  I can certainly identify with the characters at that point.  Seeing the bustle of the city and harbor of Hong Kong in 2005 it was easy to visualize it as it was in 1941.  Sitting in the Peninsula Hotel bar drinking a horse's neck was a journey back through time thanks to the exceptional story telling skills of Douglas Reeman.  I kept looking for some of the characters from the book to walk into the bar.<br /><br />Since purchasing this book, I`ve visited Hong Kong several times.  Walking around the city I find myself thinking of the men Reeman writes about with such passion.  The old RN Dockyard is long gone.  The Star Ferry still chugs around the harbour and the peak looms above the smog so some things will never change.<br /><br />I found this book a gripping read from start to finish.  I recommend it to any Naval enthusiast or historian.  Remember novelist, at least good ones, write what they know best and in Reeman, we have an unsurpassed master of the Royal Navy of World War II.  This is a book not to be passed over.	2001-10-11
US	50051683	R1RXE6J6M0CXJ	0786705957	436696293	To Serve Them All My Days	Books	5	56	58	N	Y	An exceptional  book!	Delderfield's To Serve Them All My Days is a book that I have read frequently over the years.  I found it after I watched the PBS Series.  It is a very interesting period in British history - the end of &quot;the war to end all wars&quot; and the start of World War II.  It is a time of social change, economic downturn and political upheaval.  Delderfield uses the vantage point of a boy's school in Dorset to look at these issues and events.  It is an extremely successful tactic.  But what makes this book even more memorable are the people, from the stationmaster on the first page to the last boy on the last page, these charecters all have a very human aspect that connects to you immediately.  Even the not so admirable or more difficult to like charecters make an impression.<br />This book is one that should be in everyone's library.  It is a must have for teachers - maybe not to use as a teaching guide, but to show that our problems of today, stimulating learning, school politics, funding, are not new. Nor are the problems with parents.<br />This is a fine book and I recommend it highly.  It is just the book for a cold rainy day and a goes well with a hot cup of tea and a scone.	2001-10-02
US	50051683	R1MINWOZLCUGLO	1557505446	818350813	Requiem for Battleship Yamato (Bluejacket Books)	Books	5	31	32	N	Y	A true requiem as well as history!	Requeim fo Battleship Yamato is an exceptional book describing not just the last battle of the ship, but the feelings and emotions of the crew who manned her in this battle.    This book was written and published in Japan and then suppressed by US occupation censurship policies.  I, for one, can't see what the rationale for suppression was, having read the book several times.      What I find must interesting is the author's description of the men he served with and the men he led.  He was reproved by a superior officer for NOT striking a Sailor for an infraction of discipline.  His description of the role of the executive officer is also enlightening - he was a \\"designated\\" survivor to report back about the mission.  The description of a Nisei who was in the same stateroom as the author is quite moving.  I for one, had never known or considered that there were Nisei in Japan at the time the war started and how they were treated by their fellow countrymen.  If for no other reason than this last, I am glad I read the book.    I first wrote this review in 2001. In 2006 I was able to visit the Battleship Yamato Museum in Kure.  Having read the book several times before it was amazing to see the film of the minisub examining the remains of YAMATO.  There are artifacts from the debris field on display.  It would be nice if the book were available in English and Japanese at the museum.  All visitors would find it useful.  After visiting the muuseum, I did some further research on the US aspect of the YAMATO engagement.  I learned that my mother`s second husband was in the crew of one of the submarines that detected YAMATO as she headed towards Okinawa.  It was by the submarine reports that the carriers could get aircraft into the air and engage YAMATO.  I thus have another reason for finding this book so engrossing and valuable.    this is a fine book for all students of naval history.  It is also an excellent piece of literature.  I recommend it to all.	2001-08-05
US	50051683	R2JNCICMSKFJRJ	1557500703	774018222	Wreck of the Memphis (Classics of Naval Literature)	Books	5	9	9	N	N	An illuminating look at a Naval disaster.	Wreck of the Memphis is the story of a Navy cruiser, Memphis, formerly named Tennessee.  It is the story of an afternoon in the Dominican Republic, where in less than an hour, the ship went from being fully prepared for war, to a beach wreck at the base of a cliff.  It is the story of a ship and it's captain who happens to have been the author's father.<br />The event which lead to the loss of the Memphis was US intervention in the Dominican Republic.  It is period in US Naval history that is little known and less written about.  Captain Beach's book fills in some of the details of this time.  <br />The aftermath of the loss of the Memphis is as equally interesting as the events leading up to the loss of the ship.  Now comes the question 'Why did it happen' to be answered.  The man held responsible is the captain of the ship and in this case the author's father is the man being asked the question.  The verdict and future career of senior Captain Beach make for interesting reading.<br />This is a fine book and an excellent read.  I first read this book when it was first published and I have read it periodically ever since.  It is a great addition to any nautical library.	2001-07-31
US	50051683	R26SLIXNX6GDXT	0670891967	978995191	Shackleton's Way: Leadership Lessons from the Great Antarctic Explorer	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	Excellent study of one man;s leadership style.	Morrel et al give an excellent study of the leadership style of the late Sir Ernest Shackelton.  They focus primarily on his personnel selections and why he made his decisions.  The book deals primarily with the unsuccessful 1914 attempt by Sir Ernest to cross Antarctica from coast to coast.  It is an absorbing story.    I found this book to be extremely informative and insightful with the description of why Sir Ernest decided whom to take on his expedition and later when the crunch came, why he chose certain people for certain missions.  The value comes because it gives a point of reference to judge ones own decisions.    This might be a better book for small business and start up organizations as the margin for mistakes in personnel selection is much finer and has much more immediate impact.  So on this level, I think the book would like up to it's billing.    In all, I found this book thought provoking and informative.  I have read Huntford's biography of Shackelton and I found Morrel's book a good compliment to Huntford in that it focuses on a specific aspect of Shackelton which Huntford, due to his extensive biographical work is not able to do as thoroughly.  Morrel's book should be in every library of people with an interst in leadership and polar exploration.	2001-07-18
US	50051683	R1224TO4QVHJMY	0393029182	819499836	Engage the Enemy More Closely: The Royal Navy in the Second World War	Books	5	10	11	N	Y	An excellent all encompassing work	Mr. Barnett undertakes to describe the Royal Navy's operational history in World War II.  To do this, he has to take up where World War I ended and the interwar years.  He describes the budget cuts, wholesale decommissioning of ships, the subordination of the Fleet Air Arm and the neglect lavished on the RAF's Coastal Command.  This book becomes, in certain areas, a work on Joint Warfare - the current rage in the United States, but not a new concept if one goes back and looks at Saunders and Wolfe in the French and Indian Wars and Grant and Foote in the Civil War.<br />This work is painstaking in it's detail.  One may not agree with the conclusions of the author, but you will know how he arrived there.  I found his arguements thought provoking and informative.  <br />What one has in this work is a review, warts and all of the state of the Royal Navy from 1918 to 1945.  The Royal Navy started to rearm in the 1930s but it was not always a well designed ship that went into service.  The Tribal class with single purpose low angle main battery - fine for ship to ship combat but useless for engaging aircraft as would be shown in the Mediterranean and Norway.  New aricraft carriers were commissioned but aircraft were obsolescent or hasty sea conversions of RAF aircraft such as Spitfires and Hurricanes. A poor choice of fire-control systems put ships are a disadvantage when engaging aircraft.  In all, a very mixed picture.   Barnett gives the failures and successes of the Royal Navy high visibility.  He is balanced in his approach, not failing to describe positive aspects of failures and negative points in successes.  <br />I found this an excellent all around history of the Royal Navy.  It is very useful as an adjunct to the biographies of Royal Navy leaders and events.  I recommend it for anyone with an interst in the Royal Navy.	2001-07-17
US	50051683	R3M30EG5JL7Z99	031220387X	74990727	The Third Heiress	Books	4	0	0	N	Y	Fine first time reading	This was the first time I had read a book written by Brenda Joyce.  I was attracted to it after I read a brief description of it in a genealogy magazine.<br />I found it to be a book that once I started to read, it was difficult to put down.  The charecters struck me as well developed and interesting.  T he plot took on a bit of a somewhere in time aspect but I found it not to be a problem.  I don't know if this is similar to other works by Ms. Joyce but it does have me interested in her writing now.  <br />In all I found this to be a good introduction to Ms. Joyce and I am looking forward to reading more of her books.	2001-07-17
US	50051683	R1CCEOACISXMQN	0935526684	809884142	The Inshore Squadron (The Bolitho Novels) (Volume 13)	Books	5	9	10	N	Y	Superb treatment of a Napoleonic Sideshow that Churchill would have loved.	Alexander Kent has chosen an interesting but unsung theme for the Inshore Squadron, the British expedition against Denmark.  It is a fine choice of topics and allows for a great deal of character developement.  What makes it more interesting for me was that in 1978 I had spent a long weekend (I was stationed in Berlin at the time) at a conference in Copenhagen.  It was with a sense of amazement that I saw this book on the book rack at the British post exchange (NAAFI) and after reading a few pages, just had to have it.  I devoured the book in a sitting and have, been reading it constantly ever since.  It has become a firm friend.  Now I want to take the book and my Japanese wife and revisit both the city and the setting for the book to see the city through Bolitho`s eyes.<br /><br />Richard Bolitho, now a flag officer himself, is thrust into the frontlines of nautical diplomacy.  He is discovering that it takes more skill running the gauntlet of politics than it ever took in a broadside to broadside action.  Now he is given the overall mission and learns that if he succeeds, no one will know and if he fails, he will be relieved of duty without a moments hesitation by the Admiralty, and in all likelihood be unemployed forever.<br /><br />In the midst of this hazardous assignment, he meets a woman that he is drawn to.  Belinda is the cousin of one of Bolitho's former officers, who was also his brother-in-law and whos sister, Bolitho married only to loose her later in a coach accident.  They meet coincidently when her coach is in an accident and Bolitho's coach is first on the scene.  Deja vu?<br /><br />The relationship builds but not smoothly.  Belinda knows of Bolitho's first wife and in fact vaguely resembles her.  She knows this and doesn't want to be seen as a replacement for his first wife.  It is this undercurrent that follows their relationship and you wonder, if in fact, she is right and where will they go from here.<br /><br />Adam Bolitho is now a lieutenant and we start to see that he is more his father's son then his uncle's nephew.  Dueling rears it's ugly head again for Bolitho.  His brother fled to America after killing an officer in a duel and it seems like Adam is riding down the same road.<br /><br />Thomas Herrick is back again as flag captain.  He has matured as a captain and also has a grounding influence on Bolitho.  He grows in his role of flag captain and is no longer looking over his shoulder for Bolitho's approval or sanction.  Instead when faced with a crisis, Herrick acts first and informs his admiral later - as a matter of routine.<br /><br />All these characters are thrust into the campaign to neutralize Denmark and the threat it would be to communications between the UK and Russia.  The combat between the Royal Navy and Royal Danish Navy is brutal and no-holds barred.  One would think it would be no contest but the Danes don't fold after a token resistance, they are in the fight to the bitter end.  The Danish Navy is shattered but it is not without cost to the Royal Navy.  Thanks to Bolitho the operation is a success, but if he had failed, it might have gone the other way, with incaluable damage to Britain's ability to combat Napoleon.<br /><br />All together, this is a well written book with interesting and absorbing plot twists and charecter developement.  One of the scenes that stays with me now, is Bolitho riding through Copenhagen, during his diplomatic mission, and wondering what it would be like to explore this very interesting city in peacetime.  Maybe Bolitho is getting tired of the non-stop sea war has faced since he was a teenager, 30 years before.  Hmm.<br /><br />I highly recommend this book as a valued addition to any Kent library and it is a fine reference to details of the little known and regarded 1st Battle of Copenhagen.	2001-06-14
US	50051683	R2BLFX8HPVMWXJ	1877853321	919408295	New Guinea	Books	5	7	7	N	Y	Excellent treatment of Naval warfare in World War II	New Guniea is the story of Naval operations to support Army operations in the Southwest Pacific Area.  This Naval force is dwarfed by Admiral Spruance's fast carriers and the assualts in the Central Pacific.  It is the story of destroyers and modified landing craft operating the in same roll as cruisers and battleships in the Central Pacific.  It is well written with a lively style that gives me at least, a you are there feeling.<br /><br />The destroyer is a good vehicle for this story.  A small ship that has many different people to make up the whole.  Admiral Mack examines the prejudice factor that was then part of the Navy - that no black of filipino could serve in any rate other than that of steward; even though the chief steward of the ship has better skills as a signalman than some of the actual signalmen. This foretold the evenutal manning of several Naval vessels with all black enlisted men and officered by almost all white officers - an experiment which saw vindication when the services were desegregated after World War II.  Now we see black sailors as well as admirals in the Navy.<br /><br />The story goes from Guadalcanal to the assault on the Philippines - very important period in the Naval war in the Pacific.  We see the lives of the crew, not as cyphers filling in a tapestry but as a group of men, of various backgrounds, thrown together to operate a fighting ship in it's mission of destroying the enemy.  The enemy in this case varies from Japanese aircraft attacks to typhoons.<br /><br />This is a book that is entertaining, informative and sheds light on joint warfare before it became the mantra of the 1990s.  I recommend this to all people with an interest in Naval warfare in World War II - especially in the lesser known and less well documented Naval  theatres of operations.	2001-06-11
US	50051683	R249IZVCVDMAT4	0745140939	580518682	Killing Ground	Books	5	18	19	N	Y	Excellent account of war at sea and home in UK	This book deals with the perils of war and the sea.  It also explores the perils of war and at home.  We are introduced to the book at the hieght of the Battle of the Atlantic.  It is the time or unparalled danger for ships and country as a whole.  To loose the Battle of the Atlantic is to loose the war for the UK. <br />We are shown stop gap measures - RAF Hurricanes on adapted merchant ships for one way flights against air attackers.  If the pilot was lucky he was picked up but if he was in the sea any length of time after he parachuted out or ditched his plane he became another statistic.  We have the unending picture of the rescue of survivors from sinking merchant ships.  It doesn't matter where the ship is, there are always the casualties.<br />Reeman's charecters all ring true, from the seaman anxious to become and officer and loosing his life in the process, to the bearded reserve first lieutenant who knows the merchant ships intimately from his prewar experiences.  There is the hard headed sub-lieutenant anxious to better himself regardless of the cost to others.  There are the sailors in the crew, who are the harshest judges of the leadership the have.  The captain is the man who holds the ship together; regardless of the cost to him.<br />The book ends with the start of the final push onto mainland Europe at Normandy.  You leave with the knowledge that Normandy wasn't the end of the war, merely the beginning of the end in Europe.<br />This is an excellent study in leadership by Mr. Reeman.  I recommend it to all with an interest in Naval matters and the Second World War in the Atlantic.	2001-06-11
US	50051683	R1N8EJZ0AWBG0F	0060194804	57293859	The Terrible Hours: The Man Behind the Greatest Submarine Rescue in History	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A riviting story of undersea salvage.	Peter Maas has tackled his somewhat larger than life subject, the late Admiral Charles Momsen, USN, in a commendable manner.  Parts of the book have appeared elsewhere, but this is a complete version of Admiral Momsen's work in rescueing the surviving members of the crew from the submarine Squalus which suffered a diving casualty in May 1939 and went to the bottom of the Atlantic.  Under then Lieytenant Command Momsen, 33 men were rescued.<br />I know a great deal about the Squalus as my father served in the boat after it was renamed and commissioned as the Sailfish.  He joined the boat in 1944 and sailed in her until the end of World War II.  So in essence, I grew up with the story of  Squalus and the rather checkered career of Sailfish.  A neighbor of ours was the sister of one of the divers, Orson Crandall.  I found the book to be a good refresher as to the events leading up to and after the sinking and subsequent events.  but as a biography of Admiral Momsen, I came away with disappointment.  This book is, to me, not the story of Admiral Momsen, but rather the story of one segment of his life.  The author touches on his post Squalus career; on duty in Pearl Harbor on 7 December 1941, wof-pack commander later in World War II in the Pacific, commanding officer of the battleship South Dakota and postwar, working on the design of submarines to make them a much more capable undersea weapon.  This is all telescoped into 14 pages at the end of the book.  <br />It would have been nice to have an index, photos of Admiral Momsen and his family as well as key participants in the story. A list of people Mr. Maas interviewed would have been useful as well.  Obviously, he talked to people, it would be good to have then recognized as individuals and not he did in the book, with a general thank you.  It wouldn't have been that hard.<br />For someone who had never heard of the sinking of Squalus, this book would have extremely valuable.  But as a story of Admiral Momsen, it is rather incomplete; what about his early career, his decision to join the Navy and stay with it.  The author touches on this in his final chapter, but given the rest of the story, I think it would have been more valuable to explore Admiral Momsen's early life to put into context, his later amazing success as a submariner, diver and flag officer.  It is a good basis, but for an all around picture of Admiral Momsen, one needs to look to other books.	2001-05-23
US	50051683	R2281DFDVY3CV1	0807609951	777750743	365 Days	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Vietnam at it's worst and best	Dr. Glasser's work is a monument to the medical professionals, from junior corpsman to neurosurgeon, who served in Vietnam.   It is also a testament to the soldiers who were there.      You get a deep feeling for the day to day grind of war, not what the papers and news programs showed, but the much more mundane things, like a mid-40s first sergeant veteran of three wars who's biggest problem was keeping lieutenants alive long enough to be effective leaders.  the first sergeant is living on a diet of cigerettes and coffee.  Doctors working within the rules to keep soldiers alive long enough so that they could rotate out of Vietnam.      You are also there with the nurses as they treat soldiers who could have been their boyfriends or brothers.  It certainly wasn't the nursing they learned in the state side hospitals.    You meet soldiers who after a night of patrolling have as a major concern, will there be cornflakes on the chow line when they get back for breakfast.  You also meet soldiers who want to kill thier leaders - frag them.  Some are talked out of it and some, unkown, are successful in thier quest.    You meet them all, pilots, battalion commanders, explosives experts, burn specialists, psychiatrists.  All of them combine to tell a story of one year, or maybe less, in the life of a soldier.    Anyone with an interest in military medicine should read this, as well as those with an interest in leadership at the grass roots level.    I read this book when it first came out.  I return to it for a refresher course in the cost of a political decision in Washington and the impact continents away.  This should be in every politician's library and show evidence of much use.  It is also a must read for anyone with an interest in the human side of soldiering in Vietnam.  It is apparent that since I wrote this review that my advice that politicians should read this book before committing troops to action was not heeded.  Iraq is before us and the stream of wounded continues on a daily basis.  Not by the hundreds as in Vietnam but in the dozens yet more seriously injured than Vietnam.  Now we save even more wounded than in Vietnam but as the fiasco at Walter Reed illustrates, surviving your wounds isn't everything.	2001-05-22
US	50051683	R255GFCAYVQYT7	0399116354	111538566	Winged escort	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Excellent story on little known Royal Navy carrier	This is the story of pilots who served in Royal Navy escort carriers in World War II.  These ships were not the head-line attracting fleet carriers; rather these were the \\"Woolworth Carriers\\" turned out by the dozens by Henry Kaiser's  shipyards on both coasts.  A number of these ships were sent to the Royal Navy and this is the story of one of them.  The charecters of the pilots and ship's officers are well developed and complex, like all of us.  It is a mix of old professionals and young amateurs who rapidly gain the skills and instincts of their long serving shipmates.  There are conflicts along the way, from the young pilots fresh from training and woefully short on experience to the admiral commanding the operations.  The admiral`s flag lieutenant gives some ironic distractions for the ships officers.  There is the added mix of several Dutch aircrew into the mix that adds both to the tension and humor of the story.  There is the added distraction, for the men, of having to fit domestic problems into their already full plate of matters to be dealt with, and it isn't always easy for some of them.  Finally, there is the sense of loss you meet very unexpectedly in the midst of celebrations. The scope of operations is vast, ranging from the North Atlantic to the North Sea, the Southwest Pacific and finally home in the UK.  This story is a fine rendition of the trials and tribulations of a little known type of ship in the Royal Navy.  It rings with authenticity on every page.  This should be in every person library who has an interest in Naval operations during World War II regardless of interest and theater of operations.	2001-04-11
US	50051683	RDTB5L46BRXUI	0330305751	298487282	In Danger's Hour	Books	5	9	9	N	Y	A Unique View of Small ships in War	In Danger's Hour is a story set in one of the Royal Navy's minesweepers during World War II.  The crew is a mix of regular officers and Sailors (although they are a distinct minority) and of reservists.  It is a story of how these men are molded and honed into a efficient weapon named HMS ROB ROY. <br />The story shows the ship in roles other than minesweeping, which was the lot of ships of this type.  Escort work, invasion support at Sicily and Normandy, survivor search and rescue (burial more often than not)all came the way of ROB ROY.<br />We also see how the need for mine warfare vessels vastly outstripped the the ships on hand and fishing boats of all sorts were pressed into service.  As is related in the book &quot;they dumped out the fish and dumped us in.&quot;  There is also mention made of US made minesweepers used by the RN.<br />There are interesting charecters in the book.  I find the authors treatment of the Sailors as a key to the success of his writing. You don't see a few officers and a mass of nameless non-entities who make up the crew of the ship.  <br />There is humor in the book as well.  The poking of fun at the regulars by the reservists, the kidding amonst the chiefs in the privacy of their own mess all go towards making this book a fine story.   Romantic interests are varied for several characters and most seem to work out well for the characters.  It adds an element of depth to the authors creations.<br />Minesweeping was a dangerous, relentless and probably boring job that was done extremely well by ROB ROY and her sisters.  The point made in the book is that once you finished the job, you had to turn around and do it all over again.  This book puts you right in the thick of it.  The only thing missing is the action of the ship in the sea and the constant wet and cold feeling of the crew.  It is a must read for any student of the Second World War.	2001-04-11
US	50051683	R3C0HIHXQGJG2C	0026202905	978333679	Stilwell and the American Experience in China, 1911-45	Books	5	11	13	N	Y	A great read that has a new relevancy	I first read this book when it was published in the late 1960s.  I even did a bok review on it for high school.  Little did I realize that this book was be one who's relevancy is continuous as the United States deals with a China that has changed immensely since Stillwell left in 1944 but one wonders if policy makers are making the same mistakes now as in the 1940s.<br />Stilwell is the main character of the book, but he meets and impacts people throughout his military career.  We see his service in France as a liason officer with French forces.  We see his service in China over the years and the people he met and impressed.  He has a tour of duty managing the Army reserve in Southern California which was likely held with little regard by his fellows.  Stilwell undertook to make these citizen soldiers ready for war and took them seriously which was not lost on the reservists themselves.<br />His realationship with the government and rulers of China is telling and chilling.  He saw what manner of eader Chaing Kai-shek was and inspite of his warnings, we see America insisting that he is the one person who can hold China together.  Stilwell didn't live to see the folly of that decision and then the recriminations against those who counseled against setting too much faith in the Nationalist government.<br />This is a must read for anyone with an interest in China and the role and impact the United States has had on China and vice versa.	2001-04-09
US	50051683	R2YYYYF8KM4QV4	0060147326	566332357	No Chinese Stranger (1st Edition)	Books	5	32	32	N	Y	A superb follow-on to 5th chinese Daughter	No Chinese Stranger carries on with the exceptionally intersting life of Jade Snow Wong.  The book covers three phases of her life taking up from where 5th Chinese Daughter left off.  We read of her efforts to establish herself in a shop and the problems she had to resolve before she was able to share a portion of a window in a shop owned by another.  We also learn of her courtship and marriage.  Her style fo raising her four children.  We also see a dramatic change in writing style when we read of the death of Mrs. Wong's father.  There is a switch from third to first person writing styles.<br /><br />We also accompany Mrs. Wong and her husband on as she tours and lectures through Southeast Asia.  This was the Southeast Asia of the early 1950s where colonies were in the process of converting to self-ruling nations and the resultant problems which they were experiencing.  This trip was done at the behest and sponsership of the US State Department.  What is illuminating was that prior to her departure, Mrs. Wong recieved no briefing from the State Department and her only real contact with the policy making experts was at the end of her trip when she went to Washington to be debriefed.  One country she did not visit was Vietnam.  When she gave her report to the State Department, the Vietnam desk asked why she hadn't gone to that country.  The fact that she wasn't asked to is illustrative of future problems in that part of the world.<br /><br />The book continues with her visit to China with her husband shortly after the historic visit by Richard Nixon to China.  The description of her trip, her meeting with family members residing in China and her contacts with government officials is exceptionally well presented.  Remember, few Americans had been to China officially and it was a learning experience for all concerned.  The problems encountered in the trip are quite educational for those contemplaiting a visit to China.  It was extremely fortunate that Mrs. Wong was able to travel with her husband for the assistance and advice he provided.  By this time, they had become deeply involved in the travel industry and had made numerous trips to Asia outside of China.  This experience served them well in their travels through China.<br /><br />Throughout the book, there are constant references to her family. Her children, even when she is marveling at the sights in Beijing, are never far from her mind.  She also writes of the changes that occurred in her and her family's lives as the years progressed.  Schools integrated and in an effort to make the numbers correct - large numbers of kids were bused to schools far from thier homes.  The daughter of our landlady would have gone to school four blocks from home but because of a need to balance the numbers of the different ethnicities in San Francisco she was bused several miles away to another school where she knew no one since none of her kindergarten friends were in the same class or school as she was.  I can understand Mrs. Wong's frustration with the school system as it tried to be all things to all people yet was incapable of solving her particular problem with her son and his school without a great deal of repeated and wasted effort.<br /><br />This is a marvelous book that offers a look at a second generation Chinese-American family as they move through the 1950s,60s and 70s.  There is a revealing examiniation of China as it was evolving out of the Cultural Revolution and into a new phase of government and social styles.<br /><br />Since I reviewed this book I have moved to Asia.  I had the opportunity to visit Beijing and took the book along.  It was a wonder tour guide supplement.  In her book Mrs. Wong is describing a street side clothing repair lady.  I was walking outside of my hotel (not in the center of Beijing fortunately) and when I went around the corner there was a lady at a table bundled up against the cold (it was November) with a sewing machine powered by an extensioncord for another building.  I wish I had had something for her to repair.  This was 2005 so somethings had not changed much in the 30+ years since Mrs. Wong was walking around Beijing for the first time.<br /><br />I highly recommend this book to anyone with an interest in China and the social history of San Francisco, and most of all of the family of Jade Snow Wong.  This is a marvelous book and I only wish it was back in print.  If you are planning a trip to Beijing, please try t find this book and take it with you.  It is a tremendous guide to the Beijing of then and you can accurately compare the current Beijing.  It may be a little expensive on the used book circuit but well worth it and it will give you a great deal of pleaseure while you are in Beijing.ad had something for her to repair.  This was 2005 so somethings had not changed much in the 30+ years since Mrs. Wong was walking around Beijing for the first time.      I highly recommend this book to anyone with an interest in China and the social history of San Francisco, and most of all of the family of Jade Snow Wong.  This is a marvelous book and I only wish it was back in print.  If you are planning a trip to Beijing, please try t find this book and take it with you.  It is a tremendous guide to the Beijing of then and you can accurately compare the current Beijing.  It may be a little expensive on the used book circuit but well worth it and it will give you a great deal of pleaseure while you are in Beijing.	2001-03-02
US	50051683	R2CEJCH83GXYAR	0345433289	897961335	The Whitechapel Conspiracy (Thomas Pitt, Book 21)	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Gripping from start to finish.	The Whitechapel Conspiracy shows that even Thomas Pitt is not immune from the grasp of the Inner Circle.  Punished for doing his duty, Pitt is exiled to the misery of Whitechapel and Spitalfields in East London where he has been attached to the undercover branch of the Metropolitan Police dealing with anarchists and bombers; a far cry from his usual cases.  The greater down side to this is that Pitt must leave his family and live on his own in his new patch.<br />The minor charecters in this latest work by Anne Perry get a great deal of developement.  Gracie Phipps and Samuel Tellman are back scraping and fussing with each other, as their regard for each other grows deeper.  Tellman especially has his work cut out for him since he has been forbidden to contact or work with Pitt.  Tellman has to do the bulk of the work to get Pitt returned to his position at Bow Street.  But at times, Gracie is the better detective.<br />Then to add to the mixture, another secret organization makes its appearance.  This group, the Masons, is a much more public organization, even the Prince of Wales was a Mason.  Yet they have their agenda as well.  It is interesting to see the competing agendas get worked through in this book.<br />Aunt Vespasia's early life is revealed in much more detail.  Who'd have throught it will be many readers reactions, I think.<br />The only down side to the book as far as I could see is that with all the turmoil going on, with Pitt's transfer and all, that the Pitt's children's reactions to this are left out.  I can imagine that for two young children to suddenly have dad disappear without an explanation they can understand, it would be quite upsetting.  I would think that Charlotte's reading to them at night and visits with Aunt Emily wouldn't be enough to compensate. <br />In all, this is a very good book.  I devoured it at one sitting. I think everyone who reads this will feel the same.  I highly recommend it to all Victorian period enthusiasts.	2001-02-08
US	50051683	R2W9DFTAVLZ585	0933852037	177145550	Victory at High Tide: The Inchon-Seoul Campaign (Great War Stories)	Books	5	14	14	N	N	Great treatment of pivotal moment in Korean War	COL Heinl's teatment of the landing at Inchon is thorough and informative.  It is a story of a highly complex operation that was run on a shoestring and high expectations of failure.  He gives you a feeling of you are there at the planning sessions, and as the ships lurch from Japan to Korea in a typhoon.  You are there when the LSTs come into the beaches, which have the second laargest tidal ranges in the world, and dry out when the tide recedes.  Your are there when the Marines reach the seawall and have to scale it using ladders.  <br />There were casualties at Inchon but I get the feeling that if there had been a more determined enemy resistance, the outcome of the operation might have been different.<br />This book is a must for an understanding of the first months of America's involvement in the Korean War.  It should be on everyone's shelf as it is of great value to understanding why we are still in Korea fifty years after the invasion at Inchon.	2000-12-05
US	50051683	R3PT4OMD5EB20C	1854963414	683114333	H.M.S. Ulysses (Soundings Series)	Books	5	63	63	N	N	A little mentioned classic of Naval literature	MacLean's HMS Ulysses is a classic book of man against man but more importantly, man against the sea.  Set in the brutal Murmansk Run, this book is an account of the men of a ship marked out from the rest of the Royal Navy by a resistance to discipline.  The crew is rebelling against mindless authority but is still ready to do its duty - along the lines of the great Mutiney of 1797, when ships of the Royal Navy effectively deposed brutal and mindless officers but always maintained that it would up anchor and fight any attackers.  The men of Ulysses strike me as linear descendants of the sailors fighting Napoleon's fleet.  <br />There is a great cross section of British society in the officers and men of Ulysses; from aristocratic flag officers to gentleman rankers in the lower rates.  Petty tyrants and officers one would gladly follow anywhere.  MacLean has included them all and made it work to perfection in his tale.<br />THe constant theme is not the brutality of war, or men killing each other, but the constant battle with the sea in all its many forms.  MacLean's attention to detail gives an almost 'you are there' quality to his writing.  The reader feels he is right there on the bow of Ulysses as it gets underway for one more run to Murmansk, to being on the bridge in her ultimate engagement with the German Navy.  You can almost feel the bone breaking cold whenever you are placed out on deck.  MacLean puts you right in the middle of it.<br />If any of MacLean's books deserve to be made into movies, this is one that is long overdue.<br />I found this book to be one that I didn't want to put down.  I felt the charecters were all extremely well developed, men that were almost real.  I don't know if MacLean was in the Royal Navy during World War II, but reading this book, I certainly get that impression.  This is a classic in Naval literature.	2000-11-25
US	50051683	R3DGK78RPCWB41	0449208672	120535270	The Cater Street Hangman	Books	5	8	9	N	Y	A first rate first publication	Cater Street Hangman is the first work published by Anne Perry.  It is an excellent blend of social history and gripping whodunit.  I first read this book almost 20 years ago and still go back to it for a pleasureable read.  It is easy to be transported to the London of the 1880s  and the death of Disreali and the Siege of Khartoum were front page reading in the Times.  The murders that are taking place around the home of Charlotte Ellison have the Police mystified and everyone in the community, anxious.  Charlotte, the middle of daughter of a successful banker, becomes involved with trying to solve the mystery and at the same time, learns more about Victorian Society.  As does the reader.  Her initial lack of admiration for the inspector of police who is investivating the murders, gradually turns to admiration for the person underneath the official facade.  From start to finish we are there with the Ellisons as they are first spectators and then intimate acquaintances of death at the hands of the &quot;hangman&quot;.  We learn that all the charecters are extremely complex individuals with all too human weaknesses. I highly recommend this book to anyone interested in this period of time and in detective fiction.  Anne Perry has told a wonderful tale and set the stage for many more.  AS an aside, while the A&amp;E movie was a good introduction to Anne Perry's work, the books are really much better.	2000-10-13
US	50051683	R3KUPJ8VC8X1I7	0060196963	763786575	Once An Eagle: A Novel	Books	5	66	68	N	N	A book well worth reading	I first read this book as a high school student in the late 1960s.   Vietnam was reaching it's peak and the Armed Forces was never out of the  headlines.  Since that time, I've taken it dwon from the shelf and re-read  it.  I have found it of value in my military career as a reference on  leadership and personalities.  I highly recommend it to anyone with an  interest or need to know about positive and negative leadership traits.   The lead charecter starts his military career in the desert and scrub of  Mexico searching for Pancho Villa.  Sam Damon is not in the branches that  might have a little dash or adventure such as the cavalry or air service.   He is a ground pounder in the infantry as a private who's biggest concern  is learning water discipline.  He moves on through ranks and gains a  commission during World War I and manages to retain it following the war.   The inter-war years and Damon's adjustment to both married life and  military life on officers row is insightful.  World War II is Damon's  moment to shine; he does but not without personal costs both within his  immediate family and his service family.  His end is both moving and I  felt, almost inevitable.  This book is not a quick read, nor is it one that  is good for only one time.  It's value is from rereading it and learning  something new each time.  I highly recommend this book.  My only criticism  is that it is rather high priced; I wish the publisher could get it down to  where more people would be able to purchase the hard bound edition and not  the paperback.	2000-09-15
US	50051683	RQXI3HXL8YDMT	0933852703	23426113	South to Java: A Novel	Books	5	10	10	N	Y	A tragic and heroic period for the US Navy	South to Java is the story of the US and allied navies which were tasked  with the defence of the Philippines and Dutch East Indies at the outset of  World War II.  It is the story of the crew of the destroyer O'LEARY and  their lives in the Far East.  Admiral Mack was a participant as a young  Naval officer in this campaign and I have no doubt much of what he writes  is based on his experiences.      The charecters of the crew are excellent and  true to life.  Some remind me of men I've served with in my career.  One of the chiefs is hated by all of the crew, yet he comes  through in a crunch and helps prevent the ship from sinking after a battle.   Other chiefs are more humane but equally competent. The officers are for the most part, respected by thier men although the executive officer is universally detested. Making due with what you have is what will save the ship.  The Sailors are  all believable and competent. In many cases the Sailors are doing double duty in keeping the ship operating and at the same time teaching the officers the fine art of leadership.      The officers are an interesting assortment from Annapolis grads to active reservists with little if any maritime background.  Some of the officers are new to the ship and coming from battleships, are a little unused to the more informal atmosphere in a destroyer at the end of the Navy line.  Yet the start of the war, except for one exception, pulls the wardroom together.The story revolving around the division doctor doing abdominal vascular surgery in a battle dressing station is extremely sobering and given the depth of detail in this scene, I wonder if it was based on an actual event.      This is a story of  the old Asiatic Fleet; where Sailors made whole careers serving there and  then retiring after 20-30 years.  Some Sailors served in the same ship for  8-10 years; a far cry from todays rotating men and women every 2-3 years.  When one officer says that if there were any difficult sailors in hisbattleship, they were soon gotten rid of.  He is sobered when a Sailor says \\"where do you think those sailors are transferred to?\\"   The other members of the crew, from the engineers, to the gunners mates and the torpedomen all resonate with authenticity.      The civilian romatic aspects of the book are not neglected and they are all extremely  well and sensitively done as well as humorously in the case of Mr. Durham. There is also tragedy as one of the women, who is pregnant, is killed although her baby survives.  The depiction of that scene is truly chilling and saddening.     The interactions between the allied navies is  well done - how many people today know of the role played by the Dutch in the opening months of World War II in the Pacific.  These were men who were facing, in spite of popular opinion to the contrary, a highly trained and professional navy sailing in modern ships and using modern aircraft exceptionally well.  Facing the modern well trained Japanese fleet was a collection of ships that were obsolete, with outdated weapons and ready to be transfomred into razor blades.  Several ships, two destroyers and a gunboat, were sunk with the loss of all hands.  As the  authors say at one point, through one of the Dutch characters, the ships weren't worth much but the crews were priceless.     This is a story that doesn't really end.  It is really  only the end of the beginning.  The survivors are left with having made it  out of danger but are going to have to go back and face it again to bring  the war to a close.  Admiral Mack has written other books in this time  line, but I would like to see a final book that brings closure to the  sacrifices of the men of the O'LEARY in his book about the start of World  War II in the Pacific.      This is an exceptional book and one that you won't  put down.  It is one that I have read any number of times and find it just  as good a read now as when I first read it.  Anyone with an interest in the real navy should read this.	2000-09-13
US	50051683	RXP0QFYMS8W6B	0375400524	841119426	The First World War	Books	5	1	4	N	N	Outstanding developement of complex subject	John Keegan has written an outstanding overview of World War I.  He has succeeded in connecting the many seperate events that took place throughout the 1914-18 period and ties them together into a readable and  understandable whole.  He deals on the highest levels of command and  examines this structure.  While people might be interested in the  experiences of Rifleman Bloogs, these experiences may have little in common  with what was going on back at the higher levels of command and it is there  that the most examination must be done.  We know about the huge casualty  rates but Keegaqn tells us how the soldiers happended to be at a particular  place at a particular time and facing a particular enemy.  There are other  books in print that give a particular point of view but Keegan has given us  an excellent wiork to establish a basic understanding of World War I. Other  writers and works can give added detail but Keegan lays the foundation to  understand what happened and sometimes why.	2000-04-11
US	50051683	RH8O43E3ASNVJ	155750718X	663530006	The Rules of the Game: Jutland and British Naval Command	Books	5	6	7	N	N	An exceptional study in British Naval operations.	Andrew Gordon's work, 'The Rules of the Game' is must reading for any person who is interested in Naval tactics, leadership and politics.  Dr. Gordon's book, while centered on the Royal Navy, has points that will be of  benefit to members of any Naval service throughtout the world.  A valuable  part of this work is the forward written by Admiral Sir John Woodward of  the Falkland Island campaign of 1982, who performs the very vital role of  linking us today with the Royal Navy of the Victorian, Edwardian and  Georgian eras.  Examples of Dr. Gordon's attention to detail are numerous  but a particularly interesting point is the examination of how the Royal  Navy came to acquire it's fire control system and the impact such a  decision had on events of 31 May 1916.  The book is not a quick read,  although I found it engrossing and hard to put down.  I first wrote this review seven year ago.  Nothing in my opinon of the book has changed except that it's applicability should be measured against the war in Iraq and the message traffic issues going on there.  Dr. Gordon's list of theorms at the conclusion of the book make exceptionally good reading and act as a fine demonstration that the problems that faced Admirals Beatty and Jellicoe in 1914-16 haven't improved all that much and in fact have gotten worse as technology has improved.  The example of Admiral AB Cunningham in his shore based headquarters enduring a battle in which he is not present but only monitoring message traffic is quite illustrative of how a battle can be fought and monitored without the CinC getting involved in the tactical decisions of the man on the spot.  Unfortunatley ABC is/was a rarity but it was good to see him included in the text.  This is a very interesting and thought provoking  book and  I highly  recommend it to anyone with an interest in the historical processes of the  Royal Navy and how this issue has affected it down to the present.  Also remember that if this issue is affecting the Royal Navy it is surely affecting every navy in the world be it the new navies of Estonia, Latvia and China or the established old order navies of the US, France and Russia.  Everyone is trying to fight the battle of communications and Dr. Gordon gives us a fine grounding of the genesis of this problem.	2000-02-15
