US	50060160	R3JG3I0TVULG8O	0763621552	27366794	Vegan Virgin Valentine	Books	3	10	13	N	N	Cute, but only so-so	The brashly glittered-up bookjacket and title promise a frothy coming-of-age comedy, but Mackler's book, while not exactly a downer, is only a so-so time passer.  Our heroine Mara is determined on a path of monster overachievement, so much so as to enter Yale, she intends, as a SECOND-YEAR student!  (I can only pray, for the sake of American education, that this is not actually possible-- what's the point of even going to Yale if you're going to rack up a fourth of your credits from local summer classes?!?).  Naurally, the poor girl needs to reorder her priorities.  And her do-gooding parents, determined to rescue the progeny of Mara's much older, ne'er-do-well sister, take her niece Vivienne, or \\"V\\" as she absolutely insists, under their roof.  Chaos ensues.  Or well, not really actually.  And here lies much of the problem.  On the one hand, Mackler avoids making V quite the stereotypical bad girl foil to Mara's goody-two-shoes.  But in showing us so quickly that V has a soul, the story becomes too dull, too early.  Sure, we'd expect some redemption at the end, and of course we expect V to bring some sauce into Mara's life.  But, aside from introducing Mara to the pleasures of hootchie-tops with ironic slogans written in glitter (hence that bookjacket), the bonding between Mara and V is dull as dishwater.  This devolves the plot's interest onto Mara's budding romance with her boss James, the 22-year old arty and intellectual entrepreneur who never went to college.  Mara's parents will make a bit more of an issue of his age than she will, but for Mara the constant question is why he went into work instead of school.  This plays into the novel's theme about Mara's obsessive pursuit of education as status-symbol, but the book doesn't explore the issues of class that create parents as overdetermined as Mara's, who clearly have driven her obsessively to \\"achieve\\".  Mackler tries to differentiate Mom and Dad midway through, having the mother deliver some cliched relativistic message while showing the dad using the cell phone as a weapon of mass surveillance, but it doesn't change the fact that they're both neurotic overachievers and probably drove V's mom into her listless lifestyle and are guilty of raising Mara to be even more straitjacketed, to the point where being valedictorian and getting a prestige education on the fly is the most important thing in the world.  Considering that, the offscreen denouement after the last page, where (sorry,plot spoiler!!!) Mara will show up to graduate wearing V's first-day-of-school outfit, will probably make their hearts stop quicker than any of V's indiscretions or, for that matter, Mara's own experiments in intimacy, ever would've. Yes, Mara Valentine is a much \\"badder\\" girl than she realizes!  For all her frumpy anxiety, she is the real charm of this book.  As predictable as her habit of stomping off to walk alone in the freezing snow evertime something goes wrong becomes, I could identify with it, and it makes her become real and human, even if (from a storytelling perspective) it's repetitive and uninspired.  \\"Vegan Virgin Valentine\\" is a fun and, to my mind, positive read for the YA set, but I wish it had more wit and let these non-sibling rivals just not get along a little more!	2005-08-03
US	50060160	R2GV6QANO0LB6W	1586633023	319441723	Armored Fighting Vehicles: 300 of the World's Greatest Military Vehicles	Books	5	2	4	N	N	Global Security guide	Ever like to pretend you're a Romanian dictator on parade-ground watching your pet brigade of Belgian-manufactured SIBMAS infantry fighting vehicles go by?  With a couple of battalions of spanking-new French AMX-40 tanks to beef them up, of course; never mind that noone ever ordered any AMX-40s at all, the real entertaiment in such reference manuals inevitably is in imagining how all these assorted vehicles would face off against each other in combats that, even in our contentious world, are unlikely to happen (Leopard IIs versus Leclercs?  Not in this EU century); or, on a less grisly note, how much fun it would be to have your own giant deterrent force to fondly sink your national budget on (ever wonder if Pentagon wonks spend way too much free time playing Risk?).  Covering the history of tanks and their lighter supporting vehicles ranging from self-propelled artillery (much of this including weapons also covered in this Barnes &amp; Noble series' Artillery volume) and personnel carriers to reconnaisance armored cars and engineering vehicles, this allows the reader to ponder essential specs on these famous machines of war from Kursk to Desert Storm, accompanied by clearly drawn illustrations.  Though there are a few oversights (the Soviet BMP-1 is absent, though the complementary BMP-2 as well as the airborne units' BMD-1 are featured), this gives you most of the information you need to know when pondering the state of the equipment in the NATO arsenals and that of the post-Soviet-client states that threaten them.  Presumably up-and-coming designs like the new Stryker vehicles or France's much-anticipated VBCI infantry fighting vehicles will get included in subsequent editions.  In the meantime, if you're shopping for a couple of armoured divisions, check this out first.	2004-05-06
US	50060160	RLFESRWLO2ASF	0352336951	369342329	Slave-Mines of Tormunil (Nexus)	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Aran Ashe's devious inventions at high-speed	True to the form of his Lidir Chronicles, Aran Ashe offers up bizarre and bewildering devices of torment that are intricate, difficult to visualize, impossible to realize, and yet smolderingly arousing to read about.  But whereas such memorable entries as \\"The Slave of Lidir\\" and \\"Pleasure Island\\" developed these teasing devices in wonderfully excruciating slo-mo detail, \\"Slave Mines\\" throws them out in profuse, but undeveloped, abandon.  For instance, the intimate piercing performed in \\"Pleasure Island\\" isn't realistically inflicted or healed, at least by contemporary standards, but Ashe treated his heroine's mixed-up emotions and physical responses, slowly but surely yielding to pride and sheer arousal, in incredible detail.  Here, by contrast, tons of  piercings and esoteric sexual practices are tossed out, but they don't get dwelt upon in the same luxurious way.  Perhaps Ashe got tired of developing everything in such close detail.  Fair enough, and \\"Slave Mines\\" offers many sensual tableaux:  regardless of pace, Ashe is a grand master at imagining fetishistic gear and bondage games and, in his less highbrow way, he is clearly a worthy heir of Anne Rice and her \\"Sleeping Beauty\\" Trilogy.  But this series is also less emotionally well-developed than the Lidir Chronicles.  This can definitely be enjoyed for its sensational inventions and change of pace, but this doesn't meet the standards for \\"different but equal\\" to Lidir.	2004-03-04
US	50060160	R3P3V7NFC1FH7A	0026155001	813411811	Inside the Soviet Army	Books	4	8	10	N	N	Military manual for a force gone by	It's inviting to ponder \\"Inside the Soviet Army\\" today as an artifact of neo-conservative conspiracy:  breathlessly invoking the symmetrical waves of motor-rifle divisions and tank armies that would descend upon the West, Suvorov only occasionally halted himself long enough to admit that many of these innumerable divisions were woefully underequipped, and with a perhaps unrecognized pride he terribly miscalculated the fieldworthiness of even the best pieces of Soviet equipment.  Perhaps this is understandable, considering how the scrappy weapons of World War II vanquished the Nazis' technologically advanced but underproduced Tigers and Panthers.  Still, in hindsight we can see that the Soviet juggernaut was a floundering, rusting mess, technologically disadvantaged not only in regards to ballistic missiles (one issue on which he debunks the myth of Soviet prowess) but more damningly in regards to armour, helicopters, and the infrastructure of modern high-tech warfare.<BR>     But Suvorov is indeed a provocative, and occasionally heartbreaking, analyst of the treacherous political ladder of the Soviet military, its revolting barracks life (more corrupt and sadistic than the worst excesses of late Austro-Hungarian decadence) and its lack of faith in its own mission.  He admits his pride in his nation's weapons (tellingly though, he says he only wants to collect those which have fallen into the use of Americans and freedom-fighters, as with AK-47s favored by the Marines in Vietnam for their simplicity and reliability) but his is one of the great voices of testimony against the Soviet system.  It is the voice of a gruff man, whose feelings have long held the habit of concealment, writing with simple prophetic urgency against the great danger he perceives to his hosts in the West and their treasured way of life. While his summaries of Napoleonic or WWII history sometimes raise a skeptical eyebrow, the broad outlines at least of his portrait of cynicism, violence, and conspiracy inside the USSR are clear and true.  Also, he urges points of military doctrine that remain valid and necessary.  Finally, one cannot deny the guilty-pleasure aspect of this book for Risk amateurs and military gameplayers:  his tables of military organization, and those vast numbers of motorized battalions, have an uncanny fascination that must appeal to every world-conqueror fantasist.  Use in moderation.	2004-03-04
US	50060160	R2MTID0ZA8IES	0060281278	969831101	Echo	Books	4	5	5	N	N	"Echo"s of "The Damned"	The opening chapter of \\"Echo\\", written in the voice of its protagonist, is fresh, colorful, and fetching.  Teenaged Echo has a too-perfect mother and a father who ignores her, but she's also got one outrageous superpower!  Unfortunately, Echo soon fades into the hills as the narrative momentum is lost in a succession of narrators, considerable lapses of time, and just too many turns of the merry-go-round.  One thing that impresses itself on me in this book is how close Block is coming to Anne Rice in her decline.  To wit:  an endless cast of characters, all offered for our approval based pretty much upon the evidence of cool names, exotic artistic tastes, and a sense of fashion.  Multiple narrators, as noted.  Situations that seem to exist for the sake of how poetically they can be evoked.  Time and place gone increasingly opaque.  As for concrete examples?:  well, there are vampires for one thing.  And a wee little girl starts revamping fairy tales in a manner that suggests  she has been reading the Sleeping Beauty trilogy for bedtime!<BR>    I'm still susceptible to Block's charms, and \\"Echo\\" does have some powerful moments, particularly in two disturbing chapters that show the dangerous, sexual lure of dark beings who seek to entrap our heroes.  But the novel feels, at times, plodding, marking time almost.  The travails of Smoke and Eden become, at their worst, pure kitsch:  Block comes darn close to the ridiculousness of Little Nell in one emotive scene.  And, well past what feels like a logical culmination point, the book is still floating through Echo's endless search for-- er, self-worth?  The Valentine chapters feel a little too coy about Echo's feelings for her.  And, while the finale does have poetic uplift, it's not as glorious as \\"Violet & Claire\\"s climax-- it's more of a relief just to be through with it.  And, after all the bad lovers, anorexia, sexual predators, etc., should we really believe that magic exists in underground clubs?  Isn't it time to let these heroines get out of the smog and search for Art and Love someplace else? This Joycean hangup with trashy, flashy L.A. may be getting a bit much, and really, it's not the least toxic environment for creative young people to try and flourish in.  Read \\"Echo\\" for the shimmery poetic images, but go back to the earlier ones for emotional depth and dramatic release.	2003-04-09
US	50060160	R6XAFBC801RQ4	1562012797	26832236	Incognito	Books	3	1	1	N	Y	Distracting, but could be better	Lisabet Sarai's evocative Black Lace entry \\"Raw Silk\\" was an experience to remember back in the spring of '99. Dark, intense, and full of mind-blowing escapades, one practically had to read it three pages at a time, so intense were its thrills both in anticipation and arrival.  But Sarai's two new long-awaited followups, \\"Ruby's Rules\\" and \\"Incognito\\", are somewhat mellower.  Of the two, I admit that \\"Incognito\\", though more anxiously anticipated, was less enjoyable.  Sarai's care for the craft of writing is still in evidence, but our shy, submissive heroine is not very believably shy or submissive.  Rather than being an erotic wallflower who is awakened, to her own shock and dismay, to fleshly excess, Miranda comes off as a bad girl who mopes for a minute about being shy and repressed before she springs into action in the wildest of scenarios.  After awhile, listening to people tell Miranda that she needs to come out of her repression becomes as ridiculous as someone telling Christina Aguilera to spruce up her wardrobe. I miss those nuances and am rather surprised that Sarai didn't pursue them.  Also, I am a bit curious as to how spandex suddenly usurped latex and leather as the fetishwear du jour!  But \\"Incognito\\" isn't without its rewards.  The Victorian journal Miranda peruses allows some variety, and her colleague Mark is a welldrawn and likeable character.  Sarai likes to spring physically extreme (if improbable) acts on the reader, which is a plus for fantasy.  Still, for all of its physical kinks I feel \\"Incognito\\" misses out on the psychological frissons that Sarai is capable of.  Miranda's dark journey of awakening feels more like a party-girl lark.	2003-04-04
US	50060160	R31ZV6QJ17IGOP	0352337052	420082274	Amanda in the Private House (Nexus)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	The Private House hits its stride	Ombreux' \\"One Week in the Private House\\" was fairly charming and fast-paced, but rather too formulaic in terms of its innumberable nasty bits-- there just wasn't much of a frisson of excitement in the characters' submission or \\"humiliation\\".  Fortunately, \\"Amanda in the Private House\\" takes Ombreux' delectable style to the next level.  Reserved young Amanda wants nothing less than to be embarrased by being caught in compromising situations-- or so she tells herself.  Alas, kinky people in high places have taken a shine to her, and suddenly her life is full of pleasantly compromising situations.  Ombreux is, thankfully, a very gallant sort of erotic writer, who clearly is charmed by his female protagonists and assures them a happy life where they can be free to submit.  And his gift for erotic invention really blossoms in this tale.  Many wonderful scenarios draw out in delicious detail.  Top-notch.	2003-03-27
US	50060160	R253SRNYRF0XMT	0679600248	604206983	The European Philosophers from Descartes to Nietzsche (Modern Library)	Books	5	22	23	N	N	Indispensable	This generous compilation of major works from the principle players in modern European (non-British) philosophy remains the one-volume sourcebook for every undergrad who has to write a paper and, more substantially, everyone who wants a real nose-to-the-grindstone encounter with the major philosophers.  Spinoza, Kant, Rousseau, and Nietzsche are represented by substantial, and judicious, abridgments of major works (the \\"Ethics\\", \\"Critique of Pure Reason\\", \\"Social Contract\\", and \\"Beyond Good and Evil\\" respectively), while Descartes' entire \\"Meditations\\", the famous \\"Discourse on Metaphysics\\" and \\"Monadology\\" of Leibnitz, and the Introduction to \\"The Philosophy of History\\" of Hegel (which essentially comprises a book unto itself) are complete.  Schopenhauer's \\"The World as Will and Idea\\" is also given about eighty pages, and the seldom-seen Fichte leaves a powerful mark with the Third Part of the \\"Vocation of Man\\".  Fleeting but powerful selections from Pascal provide the dissent from the Age of Reason. Comte and Mach are, at least by my prejudices, footnotes today (their offerings, particularly the latter's, remain mostly unthumbed), but appendices of brief selections from Descartes, Spinoza, Leibnitz, Kant, Hegel, and Nietzsche offer further elucidations of some of their key concepts and arguments (this volume makes for a particularly good introduction to Descartes and Kant).  The brief editorial prefaces are also noteworthy both for their keen appreciations of each philosopher's contributions (the tone is always sober but generous-- sober indeed largely because of the editors' awareness of just how much we owe to these thinkers) and for very full catalogs of available editions of the philosophers's works in English and of scholarly examinations of their lives and work.  To put it banally, this is one-stop shopping for the Descartes-to-Nietzsche block of post-Renaissance thinking.  And the spine on my copy has proved surprisingly enduring-- despite being blown off atruck, left in a hostile dormitory for over a month, and constant perusal, it has remained largely intact, though I'm about to lose a few pages of Spinoza.  After ten years, this is saying a lot.	2003-01-07
US	50060160	R2TWLT6NVEEPE1	014131091X	514857356	Who Do You Think You Are?: 15 Methods for Analyzing the True You	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Fun tool to Know Thyself	This hip, teen-oriented book offers up twelve avenues to self-discovery, ranging from 20th Century+ psychology to ancient astrologies.  Each technique is given an accessible and informative synopsis of its history and approach, and is followed by questions and info to get you started on using it to find out your true self.  You can see which brain hemisphere you depend on the most, research your multiple intelligences, and find out whether you're an Introvert or Extrovert (and all the other categories that come out of that famous test).  But along with the modern science, you get a hefty dose of ancient spiritual stuff too:  Native American and Chinese astrology, as well as the familiar Western kind; palm-reading, chakras, and more.  After going through this book with my 14-yr. old cousin, I felt that a lot of these techniques reinforced each other when I compared what they had to tell me about myself, which says something.  And learning about chakras and enneagrams informs you not just about yourself, but about other cultures as well.  Very fun, informative, and surprisingly deep.  You could learn a lot about yourself-- what have you got to lose?	2002-10-13
US	50060160	RQHRZYMZXKKJ6	0352336706	67195174	Gone Wild (Black Lace)	Books	5	5	5	N	Y	Very modern Black Lace	This new Black Lace book is one of the funniest as well as most arousing in the series.  Our heroine, Zita, sounds like she takes her wisdom of life from the pages of \\"B\\" magazine.  Though it may offend some tastes, the fact that this young London hedonist is frequently portrayed taking club drugs while cattily complaining about this-and-that in her professional life makes her seem more \\"real\\" (at least in a glossy magazine's concept of \\"real\\") than most Black Lace heroines, who were of course totally experimental in regards to sex but squeaky clean in most other regards.  Zita, as may be guessed, leads a debauched nightlife, despite her attempts to maintain a fashionably-together relationship with her steady; and, happily enough, a DJing best friend, Nadine, quickly progresses to being more than that.  There are a happy abundance of sizzling scenarios in this book, including sex itself in many varieties but also well-crafted scenes of voyeurism and exhibitionism. Each scenario seems to have its own built-in escalations:  the nasty gets nastier. And, despite her troubled though arousing life, Zita, who narrates, is a very funny and winsome woman, her obvious selfishness and general lack of scruples mating nicely with her sincere need to find out what to do.  Written with one eye on the British women's comic novel genre of today, \\"Gone Wild\\" features a good number of very naughty little quotes that fans of \\"The Bad Girl's Guide to the Party Life\\" will greatly enjoy repeating in a stage whisper the next time they throw a bash.  And, in the end, Zita finds a few serious things to hold onto in life:  it just happens that polymorphous perversity is one of them!  \\"Gone Wild\\" is indeed a very wild pornographic romp, in addition, it's very funny.	2002-09-08
US	50060160	R1DMGJY2V7PAQW	0385094973	71276313	The Republic and Other Works	Books	5	8	9	N	N	The Bible	Here is an essential compilation of works from the philosopher Emerson hailed as the &quot;Euclid of holiness&quot;.  Along with the full 'Death of Socrates' tetralogy (including the &quot;Euthyphro&quot;, whose argument on the nature of piety gets to the heart of why Christianity is not, as Nietzsche suggests, 'Platonism for the masses') this Doubleday edition also includes the esoteric late-phase &quot;Parmenides&quot; and of course the &quot;Symposium&quot; and &quot;Republic&quot;, all in Jowett's long-standard translations.  Reading the &quot;Republic&quot; in full, one can savor the loftiness of Plato's vision of human nobility, a merging of aesthetic and ethical criteria which still accounts, more than anything else, for our conception of the transcendent quality of ancient Athens  (again, contra Nietzsche and &quot;The Birth of Tragedy&quot;).  While the communitarian (and perhaps totalitarian) aspects of Plato's political vision may or may not be ironic, the deepest wellspring of Plato's utopia can best be found in the formula  &quot;beautiful minds in beautiful bodies&quot; which he has bequeathed to us as a supreme ideal in love and education.  Throughout, it is Plato's obsessive consideration of ethical ideals-- and the rationalist metaphysics in which he grounds ethical imperatives-- that galvanizes the reader to ponder the reconstruction of self and society in the light of higher truths.  And his (deliberately undwelt-upon, if we can accept Letter VII) hints of the mystical, which have haunted the Western imagination ever since, make Platonism perhaps the most essential, most truly global, spiritual tradition in history.  It is one which encompasses the sensual as well as the intellectual, the worldly and the other-worldly, and it accepts and encourages the freeplay of skepticism; as one can see in reading these works, Plato is usually his own best critic.	2002-07-30
US	50060160	R1OBDQOKO7IY6H	1573920320	411491236	Essays (Great Books in Philosophy)	Books	5	26	31	N	N	The Renaissance Socrates	It's useless to dig for just one or two epigrams to stand in for the totality of Bacon's penetrating genius in the &quot;Essays.&quot;  Though it is perhaps fashionable today to detract from him in order to praise Montaigne, it should be clear that Bacon is at least as indispensable.  As terse as Emerson is expansive, Bacon's &quot;Essays&quot; are perhaps the most truly Classical (in spirit) prose in the English language. Fans of the Leo Strauss school should have a fieldday reading between the lines of the essays &quot;On Atheism&quot; and &quot;On Superstition&quot;; for the rest of us, nobody can come away from even one of these essays without gaining invaluable insights.  Though Bacon is rightly heralded for the radical newness of his pragmatic methods, he is ensteeped in history-- those mindful of Napoleon's dictum that history is the only true philosophy will certainly respond enthusiastically to Bacon's approach.  From the post-Machiavellian insights of &quot;Of Empire&quot; to the pre-Enlightenment ethics of &quot;Of Goodness and Goodness of Nature&quot;, one will find in reading Bacon's prose what the youth of Athens must have found in following Socrates:  the presence of a benevolent, worldly-wise, supremely rational mind determined to show you the order of the world.	2002-07-29
US	50060160	RE8515BGAH58Q	0671739166	237012102	The Story of Philosophy: The Lives and Opinions of the World's Greatest Philosophers	Books	5	8	8	N	Y	One of the bedside standbys	Many of us owe a great debt to Will Durant, whose &quot;The Story of Philosophy&quot; and multi-volume world history (co-authored with wife Ariel) were the great introduction to the Western past for us in our youth.  &quot;The Story of Philosophy&quot; is a book with its flaws, but it will remain for some time the great popular intro to the philosophical canon.  Durant peppered his book with many all-too-pious genuflections to the little joys of life:  he distrusted brooders, and at his worst he's not above accusing Schopenhauer of paying too little attention to the laughter of children.  His Nietzsche chapter is unreliable on biographical points, and too mistrustful in a post-WWI way of that dazzlingly complex thinker (some criticisms are fair-- but when, for instance,  did the mature Nietzsche ever admire Bismark?)  Durant often drags out his bromide that Catholic countries produce extremes of piety and atheism, while Protestant countries, with a presumably superior moderation, keep people within decent liberal modes of Protestantism and deism-- he seems little to entertain the notion that atheists are so out of reasoned conviction rather than ill temper and social rebellion.  His chapter on Spinoza constantly employs anthropomorphic language for Spinoza's radically anti-anthropocentric conception of God:  he practically baptizes the &quot;Ethics.&quot;  His &quot;Comment&quot; and &quot;Criticism&quot; chapters usually charge Plato with not being Aristotle, or Aristotle not being Plato, and so on.  And, as his introduction admits, Durant is no fan of epistemology-- but I submit that he is dangerously wrong to treat it as a subject fit only for the physical sciences.<br />  But why is the book great?  Because, these objections aside, Durant is a terrifically energetic and witty writer, an obvious relation, temperamentally as well as in conviction, of Voltaire, whose place in this book in the absence of Locke or Hume is, ultimately, justified by the liveliness of the account of Voltaire's life and times.  His Spinoza chapter is moving, his account of Kant judicious, and in general Durant has a brilliant sense of Zeitgeist.  If his treatment of Plato is too schematic, his Bacon is a well-deserved treatment of that Renaissance genius, and his final sketches of then-contemporaries like Santayana, James, and Bergson, is a good antidote to our contemporary overreliance on Whitehead, Husserl, and Heidegger.  And he is never slow to tell the reader to forget the synopsis and read the books themselves.  A dazzling display of good host-duties, &quot;The Story of Philosophy&quot; remains a wonderful introduction to the riches of philosophy.account of Voltaire's life and times.  His Spinoza chapter is moving, his account of Kant judicious, and in general Durant has a brilliant sense of Zeitgeist.  If his treatment of Plato is too schematic, his Bacon is a well-deserved treatment of that Renaissance genius, and his final sketches of then-contemporaries like Santayana, James, and Bergson, is a good antidote to our contemporary overreliance on Whitehead, Husserl, and Heidegger.  And he is never slow to tell the reader to forget the synopsis and read the books themselves.  A dazzling display of good host-duties, &quot;The Story of Philosophy&quot; remains a wonderful introduction to the riches of philosophy.	2002-05-26
US	50060160	R3EY15N9LGV52H	006447187X	192544290	Girl Goddess #9: Nine Stories	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Goddesses become girls	In \\"Pixie and Pony\\" a seemingly trite, even shallow emotional need is shown to be an important part of a sensitive young person's life-- the need to call someone her best friend.  That story is one of the less dramatic pieces in this collection, but it resonates the more you read it.  And it's one of the most lyrically written stories in the bunch, which is high praise considering the lush profusion of sights, sounds and smells evoked in these pages.  Those who have attempted Block's novels and found them too overwhelmingly whimsical might want to give these stories a shot-- in the shorter format, Block can scale down some of the name-dropping catalogs of cool and focus in on the emotions at the heart of her tales.  The novella-length \\"Dragons in Manhattan\\" tackles some of the themes of the middle Weetzie Bat books, but with more directness and a somewhat brisker sense of humor, thanks to our heroine Tuck and her hilariously-titled dances.  The title story gives probably the first evidence of a sense of irony from this author-- and it's refreshing to see some of her heroines' pretensions get popped, while leaving their self-respect intact and even heightened.  \\"Blue\\" and \\"Rave\\" are the most devastating stories here; \\"Rave\\" concerns a doomed groupie and the narrator who loves her-- the epilogue is particularly rich in its evocation of the emotional aftershocks of his relationship with her.  \\"Blue\\" is more hopeful, but also even more  painful in its depiction of a cavernous loneliness-- it's one of the best short stories of our time.  The final story \\"Orpheus\\" relates to the experiences of the twenties, bringing the collection to an ambiguous conclusion--though, judging from the autobiographical hints, everything comes out right in the end.  Like the bulk of Block's output, this is already a staple of adolescent reading lists, but this is also on the short list of her books with the most appeal for a wider audience; it's  probably the best single-volume introduction to this  fertile imagination.	2002-04-29
US	50060160	R3FK4JMZQWW1EE	0486280535	333494093	Essay on Man and Other Poems (Dover Thrift Editions)	Books	5	23	24	N	N	Crown jewels in Pope's diadem	Pope's defining masterworks, \\"Essay on Man\\" and \\"The Rape of the Lock\\", are crystalizations of the 18th Century's defining impulses.  The \\"Essay on Man\\" proselytizes on behalf of the deistic belief in an ordered, rational universe where humankind is no divine favorite but can understand its place on the Great Chain of Being and find happiness through knowledge and acceptance.  Most will join with Voltaire in his hearty rejection of the doctrine \\"Whatever is, is right,\\" yet it is impossible to deny the ennobling quality of Pope's optimism:<BR>     \\"Grasp the whole worlds of reason, life, and sense,<BR>      In one close system of benevolence:<BR>      Happier as kinder, in whate'er degree,<BR>      And height of bliss but height of charity.\\"<BR>Where \\"Essay on Man\\" expresses the rational principles of the Enlightenment, \\"The Rape of the Lock\\" exemplifies the love of the frivolous, the fashionable, and the feminine which gave such light and warmth to an era famed for its elevation of the intellect. The poem exemplifies the Rococo, that most playful of styles in literature; nowhere else in English lit does so much of the spirit of Boucher come through.  Pope's  verse swirls and sparkles in melodic luxuriance, his creamy couplets smooth and shapely as a woman's legs.<BR>  This compact edition also includes the \\"Elegy to the Memory of an Unfortunate Lady\\", one of the most beautifully severe (and overlooked) poems in the language-- a rare triumph of Neo-Classical lyric.  Here also are the famous \\"Essay on Criticism\\", the galloping satire of the \\"Epistle to Dr. Arbuthnot\\", Epistle IV of the \\"Moral Essays\\", the  \\"Ode on Solitude\\" and \\"The Dying Christian to His Soul\\", and the famed little epigram from a dog's collar-- all magnificent, all of them compact and gracious in expression, articulate and penetrating in thought.  The serious devotee of Pope will want to go on to the treasures (and scholarly annotations) of the Twickenham edition, but this is a terrific anthology ofsome indispensable works from this controversial and indispensable genius.	2002-03-25
US	50060160	R2MBPGWCWR6F7B	035233598X	160635854	Sin.Net (Black Lace)	Books	3	4	4	N	Y	A bit of a disappointment	Ravenscroft, who packed loads of nasty fun into \\"Stand and Deliver\\" and then charted a woman's descent into sex slavery with agonizingly exciting detail in \\"Bound by Contract\\" here delivers a misfire.  Though it has generous offerings of kinky fun, \\"Sin.net\\" suffers from a few problems.  First, although the first-person narration offers a great opportunity to really get into what is usually one of the most fun aspects of a Black Lace novel-- the heroine's self-awareness of her descent into debauchery-- there's nothing whatever to convince us that Carrie is \\"mousy\\" besides this word being thrown around a time or two, so there's no frisson of excitement in her trying out new things.  Later on in the book, we get into another S&M circle plotting to get our heroine involved-- but what's the deal with the \\"parties\\" she gets sent to in order to wet her feet?  Nothing happens!  And then there's one chapter that totally loses the sense of fun-- contrary to Carrie's assurances, she is NOT in control of that ugly little scene.  This is disappointing since, despite her lack of real mousiness, Carrie is a likeable, and often funny, narrator.  Some of the sex is mighty hot, and Ravenscroft has a talent for bringing eroticism into less overtly \\"erotic\\" things (as with Carrie's feelings when dancing).  Hot cover, too.  On the whole, this is still pretty good Black Lace reading, but needed some revisions to bring it up to the stellar level of her previous two volumes.	2002-01-25
US	50060160	RV6WSEP4SBCU5	0352335483	363697639	Earthy Delights (Black Lace)	Books	3	6	6	N	Y	Ambitious but flawed	Tesni Morgan's &quot;Fleshy Delights&quot; starts off swimmingly as a well-written, clever piece of smut, but begins to sink rapidly in its final stretches.  This is one of the most schizophrenic Black Lace novels ever.  One side of the book is a bright, Girl Power sexcapade with our likeable heroine, Rosemary Maddox, going off on a shagging-spree after her longterm relationship with her business partner crumbles-- it's full of wild, adventurous sex but in a breezy, friendly sort of way.  But the book's other side is a dark BDSM saga, with another mysterious dark master engineering our heroine's life from afar.  It's this part of the book that causes real trouble.  First of all, the guy is an anonymous caller and stalker-- not a fun M.O. even in the realm of fantasy.  And when he appears on the scene, he's a real jerk, especially compared to some of Rosemary's other lovers, who seem much more provocative and likeable by comparison.  And when it comes to the big climax (suffice it to say that dinner parties always lead to dirty mischief in a Black Lace volume), it's a lot of erotic fuss over a nasty bit of nothing.  In other words,  it's not erotic but it is unpleasant.  This is a real downer since for a long stretch the book seems very erotically suspenseful.   Still, let it be said that Tesni Morgan has a promisingly filthy imagination.  She just needs to tone up her dominant male characters and integrate their shenanigans into the plot.  In &quot;The Ties that Bind&quot; the female lead was almost hilariously passive (though sexily, I admit); here, she's too strong for us to want her to fall into the Bad Guy's clutches.  There's a really terrific smut novel-- several, I hope-- waiting to be unleashed from Morgan's pen.  Here's wishing for them . . . .	2001-12-10
US	50060160	R12IFWQ4RC3WN9	0352332816	21516968	Dark Obsession (Black Lace Series)	Books	5	0	2	N	N	Grand smut	Passionate sexcapades among the titled and debauched.  Alleyn has a real talent for creating wrenchingly hot sex scenes, and for writing smutty dialogue.  &quot;Dark Obsession&quot; has several highly memorable set-pieces, and all are adorned with pitch-perfect examples of nasty, BDSM dialogue, helping to create a wonderful frisson of erotic submission.  Our heroine Annabel is equally fetching as a relatively innocent ingenue and as a sophisticated lady getting into the swing of things.  Races through many hot scenes to a gloriously developed climax, one of the longest and hottest such in print-- one where every little development is blisteringly erotic.	2001-11-24
US	50060160	R34IU3WY5FFN0N	0352332816	21516968	Dark Obsession (Black Lace Series)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Grand smut	Passionate sexcapades among the titled and debauched.  Alleyn has a real talent for creating wrenchingly hot sex scenes, and for writing smutty dialogue.  &quot;Dark Obsession&quot; has several highly memorable set-pieces, and all are adorned with pitch-perfect examples of nasty, BDSM dialogue, helping to create a wonderful frisson of erotic submission.  Our heroine Annabel is equally fetching as a relatively innocent ingenue and as a sophisticated lady getting into the swing of things.  Races through many hot scenes to a gloriously developed climax, one of the longest and hottest such in print-- one where every little development is blisteringly erotic.	2001-11-24
US	50060160	R35SHFP8G9DXIB	0352332816	21516968	Dark Obsession (Black Lace Series)	Books	5	2	4	N	N	Grand smut	Passionate sexcapades among the titled and debauched.  Alleyn has a real talent for creating wrenchingly hot sex scenes, and for writing smutty dialogue.  &quot;Dark Obsession&quot; has several highly memorable set-pieces, and all are adorned with pitch-perfect examples of nasty, BDSM dialogue, helping to create a wonderful frisson of erotic submission.  Our heroine Annabel is equally fetching as a relatively innocent ingenue and as a sophisticated lady getting into the swing of things.  Races through many hot scenes to a gloriously developed climax, one of the longest and hottest such in print-- one where every little development is blisteringly erotic.	2001-11-24
US	50060160	R25T9PJTUJMXDN	0352334479	111628811	Bound by Contract (Black Lace Series)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Memorably filthy	This is definitely one of the Black Lace titles ripe for reprint.  This \\"month in the country\\" story may be short of conventional \\"plot\\", but it manages to keep you guessing in a tingly, anxious way as our heroine Samantha bites off much more than she can chew when she consents to a \\"slave contract\\" with her lover (and sometime cousin!).  There's fetishwear, a pair of Cocteau-like androgynes, surprise interlopers-- a very full menu of erotic trials and tribulations.    Helena Ravenscroft, one of Black Lace's most talented scribes, puts together a riotously decadent smut adventure.  This is the kind of BDSM erotica that gets your loins tingling with anticipation of our heroine's every nasty reversal of fortune.  Suffice it to say that many arresting humiliations and punishments are meted out for her, resulting in her (and the reader's) shameless hedonistic gratification.           It even manages, like \\"Stand and Deliver\\" (also a standout erotic novel) to invest a certain degree of feminist empowerment to the proceedings-- but not, mind you, until Sam has had plenty of opportunity to delve deep within as she undergoes her training as a pliable plaything.  Yummy.         Ravenscroft's trio of titles (also \\"[...]\\") are all delightful, and I hope readers can rediscover them all soon.	2001-11-24
US	50060160	R1ALLNJETLQ6AW	1570761566	264011303	Body Art Chic: The First Step-By-Step Guide to Body Painting, Temporary Tattoos, Piercing, Hair Designs, Nail Art	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Amusingly cute	The cover photo immortalizes the teen-glitter-glam pop princess overkill look of the late '90s.  Unfortunately, most of the inside isn't that glamorous, featuring a number of body-art ideas that are unlikely to appeal to even the most fearless fashion experimenters (barcode temporary tattoos? yuck!).  Still, some of the tips are informative, and some of the photos are cute enough to appeal to Spicemania nostalgists.  Probably a good stocking-stuffer for younger teens who are uninhibited by notions of good taste.	2001-11-02
US	50060160	RQEEA2LKQN7TI	0451628268	544589810	Paradise Lost and Other Poems (Mentor Series)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	The best paperback Milton	A superb edition of the greatest poem in the language.  Edward Le Comte performs an invaluable job of editing, providing copious annotations which give an encyclopedic overview of Milton's Biblical, Classical, theological, and personal allusions throughout &quot;Paradise Lost&quot; as well as &quot;Samson Agonistes&quot; and &quot;Lycidas&quot;, which are the other poems of the title.  The back-cover write-up gets it right-- here is the indispensable peer of Vergil, Dante, Homer.  These are poetic monuments, cathedrals of sound and sense that are bound to exhilarate anyone who gives them even passing attention:  Milton's reverence, rage, and sensuality burn through each line.  Never mind even Harold Bloom's protestations to the contrary-- the poetry of the English tradition revolves around a double star, and this is Shakespeare's giant twin in greatness.	2001-09-30
US	50060160	R2CBD81MGCJXE8	0804109060	523577291	The Holy Bible: King James Version	Books	5	38	47	N	Y	The Baroque Bible in a solemnly grand paperback	For Gibbon-thumping Milton fans like myself, it's troubling to have to experience the poetic majesty of the King James Bible through some sorrily-printed Zondorvan or Nelson edition, especially as it is likely to be larded with commentary of the most dubious (considered archaeologically or theologically) nature. There's always &quot;The Bible Designed to Be Read as Living Literature,&quot; but who wants to be cheated by abridgment (to say nothing of RSV substitutions)? This lovely Ivy Books paperback is the perfect answer to this dilemma. Its virtue is to present the KJV in a  readable format, sans additions of any kind, with a majestic veined-granite cover. It places the Bible as a book among other books, without making it humble. A comfort in the hands and easy on the eyes, this edition allows the majesty of this Renaissance cathedral of Words to speak to the reader with all the billowing grandeur of its majestic style and substance. Nor would it seem cheaply out of place in a place of worship. Whether one seeks literary or divine intoxication, this edition is worthy of one's affection.	2001-08-31
US	50060160	RZIELGSSAXDRN	0836213122	347480714	There's Treasure Everywhere--A Calvin and Hobbes Collection	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Treasure-hunters in a magical world	Watterson's verbal and visual imagination at high tide.  Just one of the many recommendations that holds this volume high even among its C&amp;H  peers is that it contains perhaps the two greatest snowmen comics in the  series, with Calvin posing as art critic, trashing the banal efforts of the  neighborhood kids while hailing his own avant-gardeism.  As usual, there's  irreverence, philosophical debate, whimsy, and a lot of spine-tingling  transformations of Calvin into a fantasy dinosaur (watch the allosaur  descending the staircase!).  All this, plus redrafting those angry letters  to Santa . . . .  An inexhaustible delight!	2000-08-17
US	50060160	R51CHOARVAP5Y	0385095406	706043482	The Rationalists: Descartes: Discourse on Method & Meditations; Spinoza: Ethics; Leibniz: Monadology & Discourse on Metaphysics	Books	5	21	22	N	N	A superb compendium	The Anchor volume &quot;The Rationalists&quot;  is a very handy one-volume compilation of the central texts of 17th Century Continental philosophy.  Included are Descartes'  &quot;Discourse on Method&quot;  and  &quot;Meditations,&quot;  Spinoza's &quot;Ethics,&quot;  and Leibnitz's  &quot;Discourse on Metaphysics&quot;  and the &quot;Monadology.&quot;  The  only really famous text excluded here is Spinoza's &quot;De  Emendatione,&quot; but the inexpensive Prometheus Books paperback of the  &quot;Ethics&quot; includes that.  This handsome, portable paperback allows  one to explore the development of Rationalist thinking chronologically from  Descartes to Leibnitz without suffering the bloody-chunks omissions imposed  by most undergrad philosophy texts.  And the absence of scholarly  commentary thankfully allows the reader to immerse herself fully in the  preoccupations of these thinkers without constant hectoring about how they  &quot;failed&quot;; instead, each of these multifaceted thinkers can prod  the reader on their own terms.  This is a wonderful volume not only for the  philosopher or student of philosophy, but for theologians, historians, and  even artists-- these three have much to say that is still pertinent for any  reflective person.	2000-08-16
US	50060160	R63BUOQ2MY6N8	0786703903	320520782	Oyster Redux (Victorian erotic classics)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Erotic Masterpiece	Unrelentingly lubricious, &quot;The Oyster&quot; is also, of all works of erotica in any genre, perhaps the most successfully sustained portrait of a  feel-good eros without cruelty or regret; unlike almost every other  sex-themed work ever attempted, this book's characters never suffer  ambivalence about a sexual act, nor do they ever take stock of their own or  another's debauchment.  Part enlightened how-to manual for the Victorian  Age, part feminist/ Socialist manifesto, this work is unrelentingly  charming, gracious,-- and phenomenally arousing.  Like the lover of one's  dreams, it carries off the nastiest things while taking away any unpleasant  psychological &quot;nastiness,&quot;  leaving only sensual transport and  tender, loving vibes.  If any work of pornography deserves comparison to  Mozart, Jane Austen, or Vermeer, this is it.  Its worldview has to be  experienced in order to be believed-- it is perhaps the one work of erotica  which would delight every palatte and deserve inclusion on every  bookshelf-- it is the indisputable masterpiece of its kind.	2000-08-14
US	50060160	R1JR0XNKW3LED3	0828104344	366241120	World War I (American Heritage Library)	Books	5	12	13	N	N	A Comprehensive Epic of the New Dark Ages	&quot;Slam&quot; Marshall's epic &quot;World War I&quot; is an expansive and explosive account of the beginning of what we might best think of as the 'Century of War'.  His history not only provides lucid, detailed and  gripping accounts of the major campaigns of the Western and Eastern fronts,  but also gives his readers a sense of the extraordinary human waste of this  terrible conflict.  Not only is his work a thrilling piece of military  history, but also a work with giant insights into social and political  currents as well as a novelist's sense of psychology:  his portrait of  Ludendorff, for instance, makes a convincing case for adding this  demonically gifted glory-hound to the canon of the century's great  villains.  Marshall's eye for detail will fill his reader's heads with  indelible images, from the cigarette-case tossed aboard the Kaiser's yacht  with the news of the Archduke's assasination to Hoover's troubled walk  through Paris after reading the Versailles Treaty's punishing conditions.   The book's final illustration-- of the Nazis in one of their Miltonic  conferences-- lands a final punch with staggering force:  this insane  conflict, which destroyed the humane illusions of 19th Century  progressivism, was only the beginning of a cycle of almost unremitting  horror.	2000-05-07
US	50060160	R2Y6C8APSXAAPK	0891903968	840557570	Eyeless in Gaza	Books	5	42	45	N	N	Classic waiting for revival	True, its didacticism inevitably keeps it from being considered a purely novelistic masterpiece.  And some transitions-- like Anthony's committment to helping Mark in the revolution-- are awkward.  But amongst the  non-canonical novels of the 20th Century,  &quot;Eyeless in Gaza&quot; is  one of the very finest.  Huxley's bold manipulation of chronology-- the  backwards-and-forwards movement through the early decades of the century--  gives the book a symphonic undertow; it seems all at once breathless and  grandiose.  Huxley's psychological acumen has never been sharper: Helen is  one of his most persuasive and complex female characters, and Anthony's  spiritual journey is convincingly elaborate.  Not only does &quot;Eyeless  in Gaza&quot;  have Huxley's trademark highbrow comedy, but a genuine sense  of pathos (rarely does Huxley indulge so much sincere emotion in his  characters).  And the author's eye is particularly cinematic here:  the dog  dropped from the aeroplane is one of his most surreally brilliant images.   This novel is one of the most compelling attempts to give comprehensive  expression to the spiritual condition of European humanity  between the  Wars, and easily deserves to hit a few reading lists and syllabi.	2000-05-07
US	50060160	R3KBN2ON3XUJ1W	1566630185	665633492	After Many a Summer Dies the Swan	Books	5	8	10	N	N	Serious Horseplay	While not exactly a masterpiece, Huxley's &quot;After Many a Summer . . .&quot; is a brilliant literary high-wire act, combining all his usual predilections:  Vedanta-inspired philosophical dialogues, poetic  digressions, a smattering of ingenious erotica, and a great deal of vitriol  to pour over the heads of the materialists, nihilists, and profiteers of  the modern age.  Among Huxley's most clever inventions in this work must be  counted the apocryphal musings of a rakish Earl of the late Enlightenment,  whose quest for immortality gives the novel occasion for its final, bleak  estimate of human desire-- these exercises in the 18th Century aphorism are  both a wonderful evocation of that sensual, godless era and a comic  counterpoint to the heroic transcendentalism of the novel's great sage,  Propter.	2000-03-20
US	50060160	R3IP2UF0QK3RFE	0671722972	308306582	The Winter's Tale (The New Folger Library Shakespeare)	Books	5	7	10	N	Y	Shakespeare's Matriarchal Fantasy	&quot;The Winter's Tale&quot; marks Shakespeare's entrance into a prescient world of High Romantic ideals, where the stagnancy of a courtly world dominated by emotionally afflicted males is subverted by a vernal  world of female power.  Leontes, King of Sicilia, is one of Shakespeare's  most convincingly self-tortured characters, while Hermione is an icon of  long-suffering patience, incarnated in the famous statue of the play's  conclusion.  Her daugher Perdita is the subject of potentially blasphemous  adoration, not only for her suitor Florizel but for the entire world; she  glows in the suggested light of pagan mystery cult, the Eleusinian  mysteries of mothers and daughters in secret collusion with nature and  against the withering forces of jealousy and death.  In this light, the  critical essay included with this edition is sadly tone-deaf to  Shakespeare's potent poetic raptures in this play, hearkening instead to a  dogmatic, albeit at least clearly presented, rehearsal of Renaissance  attitudes about &quot;patriarchy&quot; which deadens Hermione and her  faithful advocate Paulina into mere totems for self-exculpating males of  the sort whom Shakespear embodies, with withering criticism, in Leontes and  the judgmental Polixenes.	2000-02-14
US	50060160	R2I6W36RHPN4R6	0060277491	249090897	Violet & Claire	Books	4	0	3	N	Y	Poetic Rapture and Heartbreak	&quot;Violet and Claire&quot; is a novel of poetic rapture, convincingly portraying the ecstasy and agony of the creative temperament as embodied in two young women, who serve to represent relative extremes of brooding  ambition and irridescent idealism.  It is an emotionally twisting journey  the novel takes, however, often throwing the reader for a loop.  Throughout  the first forty or so pages, I often reminded myself of Goethe's famous  remark about his novel &quot;Elective Affinities&quot;, that (to  paraphrase) 'Every line in this book embodies the essence of my life, while  not a single line reflects anything that has ever happened to me.' Anybody  who loves the cinema will be ecstatic over Violet's 1st-person narrative.       However, by the end of the novel, one may feel confused about the  treatment of Claire.  She loses the confidence of her lover, Brookman, who  connects with Violet because the two of them share difficult lives,  particularly some drug problems.  Claire, devastated by their apparent  intimacy, indulges in some drug debauchery of her own and retreats into  self-loathing.  I am not sure whether to regard this as a &quot;learning  experience&quot;or not; on the one hand, one is pained to see her so down  on herself, but on the other, she seems spiritually violated, and at the  end, I am not certain whether she has managed to keep her faierie (spl! )  dreams of a perfect world.  Both Violet and Claire are, I think, beautiful  souls, but the novel's retreat into 3rd person narrative at the end leaves  me feeling emotionally detached and distant from the characters one has  come to know and love.	2000-02-14
US	50060160	R21X68UADN0FDB	068800489X	319086719	Overexposures: The crisis in American filmmaking	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Hollywood's Sensuous Puritans	&quot;Overexposures&quot; is a work which strives to match the imagistic punch and musical flow of the best movies, and stirringly succeeds.  The book is both a tribute to the pagan authority of Hollywood movies, with  their overwhelming power to stimulate the senses, and a diatribe against  their moral vacuity and tendency to deaden our more enriching emotions.   The book spends entire chapters arguing against the flawed artistic  dispensations of Hitchcock and Coppola; and, even though these artists are  two of my idols, Thompson's reasonings  make for compulsive reading.  His  chapters on L.A. are lush, provocative, and full of pleasurable revulsion  with the duplicities and indulgences of Hollywood, as both location and  state of mind.  Most of all, perhaps, his chapter on Kubrick's &quot;The  Shining&quot; is a manifesto for what he thinks of as a more Nabokovian  cinema, a Looking-Glass world where imaginative surfaces can triumph over  the banal realities of everyday life, without compromising our high hopes  for human interconnection.	2000-02-14
