US	50075613	R1WSEUSGXBT9HB	1413429335	768045451	Mary and the Ossuary: Beneath the Brother of Jesus Forgery	Books	5	10	14	N	N	Troubled Bone-Box	I received an advance review copy of this astonishing work about the story behind the &quot;Brother of Jesus&quot; bone-box &quot;discovered&quot; in Israel. It was given to me by the company's publicists at the Society of Biblical Literature Conference in Atlanta a few weeks ago. The television, net, and newspapers, in terms of covering the box when it appeared, were full of the story. It seems that the circle promoting this bone-box (it's inscription is now proved to be a fake by the Israel Antiquities Authority) were also &quot;full of it.&quot;<br />An explosive book. Written by an expert in ancient church history who also is a journalist(?), Ransom stockpiles a wealth of on-the-record statements made by the box's chief promoters &amp; authenticators and lets THEM demonstrate, by means of self-incrimination, horrific contradictions, lies, and troubling evidence of collusion, that there were several hidden agendas behind the creation and marketing of the ossuary. This is the book about the &quot;hows&quot; and &quot;whys&quot; in which this particular forgery came into being. Part detective story and part jaunt into the ancient past of the family of Jesus, it's the most hard-hitting and thorough investigation possible.<br />Ransom documents a rapid-fire succession of contradictions told by the &quot;handlers&quot; of this artifact. When it first appeared, many of us certainly wished that it was authentic, but from Ransom's work, and the work of numerous scholars quoted throughout the book, it's evident that the forgers and promoters were counting on just those &quot;wishes&quot; to fool the world. It is a serious matter when individuals manipulate the faith of people for profiteering.<br />One of Ransom's chief contentions is that there were a number of underlying agendas from the very beginning, agendas used to sensationalize. He makes a good case for the debate about Mary's virginity being one such agenda.<br />1.A publisher with a glossy Bible-magazine is at-the-ready to break the story to a readership of largely fundamentalist Christians.<br />2. A former Catholic priest/James-era Christian historian authenticated the inscription and would have known it would stir a sensational row over Mary's virginity between Protestants and Catholics.<br />3. The &quot;anonymous&quot; owner of the box is a notorious collector of dubious &quot;artifacts.&quot; The amazing part is that all of these men (and others in the mix) were apparently in collusion together long before the revelation first broke. Friends and associates for years!<br />The lies detailed are stunning. Owner Oded Golan is on the record with at least twelve different stories about his purchase of the box. A Toronto museum curator notes that publisher Hershel Shanks came to him with a &quot;high stakes poker offer&quot; to display the box a week BEFORE Shanks and officials announced there were no plans whatsoever to exhibit the box! Evidence that the box was shipped out of Israel LONG before the story broke, and under seedy circumstances. Two disturbingly different, on-the-record versions of the story behind striking the TV documentary deal. All this is just the tip of the iceberg. There has been so much falsehood circulating around the promotion of this box that it makes for eye-opening reading, no mistake about it. And one can't argue with on-the-record, documented sources. Amazing.<br />It is now a matter of public knowledge that the ossuary's &quot;owner&quot; was arrested in Israel and suspected of forgery; police found the supposedly sacred ossuary this summer sitting on a lidless TOILET(!)in the owner's secret workshop -- a shop filled with forger's tools and several fakes-in-progress, according to documented police reports. The toilet bit alone would be almost hilarious, if this were not such a sad account of how devout people of all denominations have been bilked.<br />Balancing the book is a brilliant survey of the person of Mary, James, and the Family of Jesus in the New Testament and the early churches. Ransom uses piercing investigative techniques combined with strong Biblical interpretation methods to &quot;uncover&quot; the family of Jesus. Much of the work appears to be ground-breaking. Though Ransom seems to be Roman Catholic (it is never specified), the detective work on Mary is useful for people of all denominations, and offers one of the best explorations ever on the issue of Mary as a perpetual Virgin. <br />Ransom concludes that both Protestants and Catholics have much to offer on the issue, but that the evidence leans heavily toward the likelihood that Mary remained a virgin. It's pretty compelling data. Roman Catholics will eat this part of the book up with great interest. So will Protestants who disagree, for that matter!<br />Of extraordinary note are the ossuary and &quot;Temple Tablet&quot; reports by Dr. Rochelle Altman, one of the world's chief observers of ancient phonetic/Semitic writing systems. Followers of the saga may recall that she was the very first to expose the inscription as a fake, and the only &quot;finger-wagger&quot; to appear in the Discovery Channel documentary. Her analysis, very scholarly, is yet gripping and readable. Ransom also secured a scorching interview with Dr. Altman that unravels more and more twists beneath this fascinating saga. Enigmatic new evidence (that not even the IAA has apparently uncovered about the bone-box) is also revealed.<br />Fans of true-crime, current events detective stories, Biblical interpretation scholars and laypersons, and followers of the Brother of Jesus bone-box circus will not want to miss this achievement. I haven't read better investigative work since David Stoll in the 80s.	2003-12-20
US	50075613	R2ZY961JUWUVHD	141072011X	94425260	Come Back, My Love	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Heartfelt and Evocative	More than a typical romance, 'Come Back, My Love' has a poignant, memoir-ish dynamic. The plot is certainly hopping with steamy action from all of the chief characters -- Dean Borden, Lizbeth, Gillian, Jesse, et al. -- but there are challenging moments here as well. Moreover, the flow of the work is one that encourages the reader to look beneath the various social &quot;sketches&quot; and confront the reflective quality of the writing.There are lush, dark secrets here. Set in the lovely Carmel Valley region of Northern California, the story takes the reader through the distraught, hot, and sometimes overwrought lives of several local denizens. The protagonist is one Rex Borden, Dean of a fictional college who must face a harrowing past while dealing with the tumult of the present and also with future uncertainties. Another character, Lizbeth, is a real piece of work. You'll have to &quot;read&quot; her to believe her. This book has it all -- sex (tastefully but tantalizingly envisioned), betrayal, greed, shattered and shattering relationships, and even lesbians. Most of all it has love. The occasionally florid writing style actually adds to the moist atmosphere of this sweeping, chaotic love story. Heartfelt and evocative, with characterizations that are always intriguing, 'Come Back, My Love' is a great beach-steaming read or even a fireside &quot;adventure&quot; -- so long as you have a snifter of expensive Cognac in hand. Give it a try.	2003-10-16
US	50075613	RV8WK7NGK7UGD	0801438349	906907170	The Gods of Egypt	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Exceptional short book by one of the best	I have always considered Traunecker's work to be of the highest quality. He has an insight into the mechanics of ancient Egyptian cosmologies, theologies, and mythologies that is both direct and free of unnecessary random (and rambling) thought. His assessments are clinical but always interesting, and his work on the El Qa'la temple site is NOT to be missed by anyone who can get their hands on IFAO's pub. Be that as it may, this short book packs a scholarly punch. All of Traunecker's hard-earned, on-site assessments of the gods of ancient Egypt -- their cults, qualities, relevance, and destinies -- can be found in rather tidy, enlightening fashion. A must-have quick reference for many of its tidbits...though Dr. Traunecker does contradict at least one or two minor points he previously asserted in some of his published work. Bottom line -- Immortals (and Immortalettes) of Ancient Egypt from one of the best pros in the business! Get it.	2003-06-29
US	50075613	R14854IM0FUZ00	0809121689	51466885	Mary in the New Testament	Books	5	20	24	N	N	Still the best study on Mary in Scripture	This ecumenical effort to study the basics about Mary in the NT was undertaken in the mid-70's and is still the standard almost thirty years later. A truly exhaustive, balanced, and informative work that keeps its focus on Scriptural interpretation and probabilities...seeing a number of sides of the sectarian coin on Mary but always opting for the most plausible interpretation, based upon the flat-out *science* of understanding Scripture. Excellent. The best part is the extra chapter on Mary in the 2nd century Christian experience, following-up on what the post-Apostolic churches garnered from the original records and traditions. An absolute MUST for any student or Christian scholar's library.	2003-03-08
US	50075613	R3UHDOVFN5Z3H6	1579104541	293587533	Theotokos: A Theological Encyclopedia of the Blessed Virgin Mary	Books	3	11	29	N	N	Historically Complete But Theologically Dated	This is a basic lexikon of the major teachings, ideas, doctrines, dogmas, and sundry that have been associated with the Virgin Mary from New Testament times until the present. An appendix has been added to update the original 1980 edition of this work. Though O'Carroll sticks to the facts, his own Mariological interpretation permeates the work and tends to color the commentary, instead of a more straightforward historical approach where the historical realities speak for themselves. Be forewarned: his Mariology is very pre-Vatican II, what with its obsession on titles and assertions of Mediatrix, Co-Redemptrix, Advocatrix, Adjutrix...you get the idea. It's a very old, dusty, May-Crowned Mariology, one that seems preoccupied with irrelevant and un-Biblical matters like &quot;Queenship&quot; and &quot;Dispensation of Graces,&quot; and what not. Also, there is one picky assessment of &quot;Mary at Vatican II&quot; that frankly betrays this theologian's transparent disappointment that more &quot;Queenly&quot; and &quot;Grace-Spewing&quot; qualities of Mary were not a prominent feature of said Council. Otherwise, his translations of the early Fathers are generally quite fair, his facts are straight, and his sources are quoted in exhaustive fashion. But, he injects too much personal theology into the work to make it a truly proper, or five-star lexikon -- which should stick to historical facts, quotes, and a sampling of various interpretations, rather than  personal &quot;interpretation of interpretations.&quot; Handy, though, if you're doing any kind of research on the Mary-figure. BTW -- Little space is given to any modern Protestant thought on Mary. The principal Reformers are covered, but otherwise, this is strictly an Eastern Patristic/Western Patristic catholic tome. Another mild bit of a strike against its thorough scope.	2003-03-08
US	50075613	R3NA7VY4FX6CF	0895552531	318747484	St. Bernadette Soubirous: 1844-1879	Books	4	51	55	N	N	Thorough but more sentimental than objective	This was a fine work written by an obviously devoted priest about the life of the enigmatic Bernadette. He covers all of the bases, from birth to beatification, but tends to downplay the realism of her family's moral falures and flaws. The generally-held notion that Bernadette's parents were a bit on the drunken-but-lovable side does not detract from Bernadette's grace and bearing. In fact, for me, it makes Bernadette and her experience shine ever the more brightly. But, this book was written long ago, when unsavory realities were far more \\"brushed under the table\\" than they are in this day, even in biographies. What saves the book from being a devotional piece is the attention to detail and loads of great quotes and information. The book is almost worth it just for the photos of Bernadette alone. I don't believe you can judge a person by their appearance, for the good or for the bad, but if Bernadette Soubirous' face doesn't transmit an underlying, supernatural graciousness, then no face on this earth ever has done so. All in all, a fine \\"life's work\\" that this good priest should now be proud of...in heaven with his beloved Bernadette.	2003-01-11
US	50075613	RISPBZT7ZC3O7	0446607916	417873860	Merlin: The King's Wizard - Part 2 (Merlin (Warner))	Books	5	0	5	N	N	Buhhhhhhhhhh!	I want Mab so bab...er, so bad. She's a bit of a slag, but you have to love her motivation. Great adaptation of the movie. better, even.	2002-10-29
US	50075613	R3P425AGATF9Q7	0380977788	425362981	Coraline	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Taut, Original, and, yes...frightening	Gaiman's book is filled with dread from the first few pages onward; it is a dread that permeates the story via his descriptive prowess, ability to nail his metaphors, and the weird-perfect symbolisms that pop up constantly. Obviously, the buttons are a most horrifying and disturbing motif. This is a nervous story, an ominous story, a chilling story; it skitters about in any number of malevolent directions like Coraline's final \\"enemy.\\" Yet, the book never drops the silken thread of its purpose, which is to unspool a modern fairy/horror-tale that grows black, black, and frightfully BLACKER with every page. I'm not certain this is yet on a par with 'Alice in Wonderland' (let's wait another fifty years and see), but it certainly ranks with the best of Dahl's work in terms of theme, style, and sheer impact. A winner, to be certain. But leave it for kids ages 11 and up; the hideous evil lurking beneath this tale insinuates itself even after the story is finished and the memory of it will be very difficult for younger kids to dismiss. A final note: the illustrations are, in my opinion, not up to a par with the impact of the story.	2002-10-03
US	50075613	R139J0091GKZWJ	0061020613	532931410	Witches Abroad	Books	5	3	3	N	N	All hail Granny, Nanny, Magrat, and... Greebo	I was thrilled when this Pratchett classic was reprinted in paperback, as it was the only book in the 'Granny Weatherwax Series' I had not managed to get my hands upon. What a singular pleasure to pronounce it my personal favorite! Written in inimitable Pratchett style, this is fantasy/parody/satire/storytelling at its most clever. The plot snaps merrily and whimsically along, full of hilarious puns, allusions, and, as Nanny Ogg puts it herself, \\"lots of double intenders.\\"<br />   The book opens with a hilarious gathering of the Lancre coven atop Bear Mountain...lovably grouchy Granny is perturbed to discover that ALL of the attendees have brought potato salad, and that Old Mother Dismass has left her oracular mind rambling in some far distant century, rather than in the present. The reader is next transported to the cottage of Desiderata, a doddering, exhausted old-bag-of-a-Fairy Godmother. Desiderata knows that her death is approaching, and so does a mysterious enemy who taunts her from the vantage point of a mirror. Desiderate doesn't care; she's more concerned with getting her tired caboose outdoors and down into the grave she has had pre-dug. She's also busy wrapping her powerful Fairy Godmother wand and sending it off to a worthy successor. Desiderata sends the relic to none other than Lancre's \\"wet hen\\" witch, Magrat Garlick...with instructions to make sure that Emberella (Desiderata's god-daughter)does NOT marry the Prince of Genua. She also warns Magrat not to allow Granny Weatherwax and Nanny Ogg to interfere with the mission. Naturally...Desiderata knows that Granny and Nanny wouldn't miss a chance to meddle, especially when they've been told NOT to.<BR>  <BR>   Thus begins the amazing broomstick-ride to distant Genua--Granny and Nanny determined to make sure that poor Magrat uses the wand for more than turning EVERYTHING into pumpkins. The misadventures roll out one after the other as this wacky trio soars above mountain and forest: a Dwarf mine collapse, a raucous riverboat gambling incident, a drunken absinthe party in an outdoor cafe, a bratty Red-hooded girl whose delirious grandmother is the object of wolfish desire, a house falling on poor Nanny, etc. Once they get to the walled city of Genua, Granny is on her guard against the danger of merely setting one's boots into \\"foreign parts,\\" and all three witches realize that SOMEONE VERY POWERFUL is determined to make every life in the kingdom follow strict 'Storybook' protocol..even if they don't want to. Zombies, bumbling vampires, a voodoo-mama who reads the future in a pot of gumbo,and Nanny's randy, rotten,... shape-shifting cat, Greebo, highlight one of the funniest books Pratchett has ever written. In the end, it's up to Granny...the wisest and most potent witch in the Discworld, to match her wits against an enemy she might not be able to conquer. <br />   Thoroughly enjoyable in its ability to skewer both \\"fantasy\\" worlds and our own \\"real\\" world, 'Witches Abroad' has everything *AND* the kitchen sink. A romping, brilliant piece of satire. Five Shooting Stars!	2002-08-18
US	50075613	R2KMNGJAEWEKZQ	0316666343	784206304	The Lovely Bones	Books	2	4	15	N	N	How does this [stuff] get published?	What a ridiculous premise. The writing was competent, but I hope the author learns the art of concept, storyline, and character development next time, instead of wasting her promising abilities on utter silliness. Who agents this kind of incoherent, artless offering? Good grief. Susie Salmon (\\"like the fish\\")????? Aye-yi-yi.	2002-07-15
US	50075613	R3D29IVCJNV3M9	0394711556	391080796	Alone of All Her Sex: The Myth and the Cult of the Virgin Mary	Books	4	55	67	N	N	Fascinating, well researched	The fact remains that this book offers a very solid and accurately researched survey of the development of the \\"phenomenon\\" of devotion to Mary, the mother of Jesus. It is not exhaustive by any means, but traces all the major strains of development from at least the third century. What the book fails to do adequately is critically delve into the real roots of Marian themes as found in the New Testament records. Indeed, what we see in the very first century of the Christian/Biblical era is a rather rapid (and radical) development of attitudes about the Mother of Jesus, a shift from early indifference and ignorance of Mary's role (the Marcan Gospel, Pauline letters) to an outright \\"lifting up\\" of Mary as the Ideal Christian, the First True Disciple, worthy of loud praise (Luke), and even iconic status as Eve-Israel 'Mother of believers'(John) and glorified symbol of the Church itself (Revelation). I wish Werner had spent more time drawing attention to how swift and startling these developments in the understanding of Mary were when the New Testament writings were being composed. Also, how did these \\"arcs of thought\\" regarding Mary take root geographically in the 2nd century church? Werner could have noted that it was no coincidence that Gospel communities giving great prominence to the figure of Mary(Luke's Antioch, the Johannine churches) in the first century continued to preserve these emphases in the 2nd (Ignatius of Anioch, Irenaeus-Justin, etc). Otherwise, Werner gives a solid depiction of how formative ecclesiastical motives (asceticism, Christological controversy) rattled the chains of Mary's rather flexible image in the patristic age, and how her mystique lent itself so readily to mythical, legendary rumblings about her death, intercessory powers, etc. A fascinating handbook and not even remotely [a] feminist manifesto ... It seems that some would have a hard time handling the reality that much of what Mary represents was a complex combination of iconic mythologizing that began in Scriptural/Apostolic times and only grew in succeeding centuries according to the demands of the age and normal human piety.	2002-04-20
US	50075613	R3HHS7QHGLB93Y	9068319337	374798826	A Ptolemaic Lexikon: A Lexicographical Study of the Ptolemaic Texts in the Temple of Edfu (Orientalia Lovaniensia Analecta)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Monumental	Scholars will revel in this truly exhaustive lexikon of Ptolemaic language drawn (mostly) from the expansive walls of the Temple of Horus at Edfu in Upper Egypt. Though there are a few mistakes which are inevitable in a work of such complexity and magnitude, Wilson's work is unquestionably a life's achievement, and her research(as well as her attention to detail) is beyond compare. The intricacies of Ptolemaic Egyptian language can be brain-addling and convoluted, but Wilson does a careful job cross-referencing in a way that will facilitate use of this book by any number of serious scholars. Priceless...and best of all it really can serve as a fine doorstop when your nose isn't buried in its pages. Bravo, Penelope.	2002-03-20
US	50075613	R1NOUSHMWDUTPA	038549372X	422219355	The Wounded Prophet: A portrait of Henri J.M. Nouwen	Books	3	10	12	N	N	Reverent, But Attempts to Cast a Shadow on Nouwen's Work	This book seems to heave a big, weary sigh of regret that Nouwen failed, in some way, to benefit from his own giftedness. I would caution the biographer (and those who read this otherwise worthwhile selection) that Nouwen's ability to survive as long as he did, fighting to love, to write, to share, and to be loved--all while maintaining his vows--is proof that his message worked something akin the miraculous in his own life. Other souls with as much innate neediness and wounding as Henri could have easily gravitated into a world of hatred, cynicism, drug-use, alcoholism, promiscuity, and eventual suicide. I've seen it happen many times. We've ALL seen this scenario played out before us in millions of tragic lives. The sheer fact that Henri remained in the realm of the living, and accomplished genuine sharing and love despite his deep wounding, is stunning proof that his God gave him good advice, that Henri took this advice, and that its power kept him primarily in a world of Light... against excruciating emotional odds. The glass may look half-empty, but sometimes it's merely half-full, friends. As to the question of whether or not Nouwen was gay, I don't think it matters one bit. What DOES matter is that Nouwen himself never felt the need to make a public, worldwide pronouncement about such an orientation, nor publicly debate how such an orientation may have affected his writing...one way or the other. In light of THAT reality, persons of true integrity might wish to maintain a similarly appropriate silence on that subject, at least in Henri Nouwen's personal regard. This work is yet another prime example of how impossible it is for any biographer to truly get inside the essence and soul of any subject--no matter how penetrating their research or how noble their intentions. That said, the author gives us an otherwise good pass at Henri's life and a look at some of the things that probably made him tick. But steer clear of judging the ultimate state of souls, no matter what the exterior, Michael Ford--especially those as complex as Nouwen's. THAT kind of biography can only be written by God.	2001-12-16
US	50075613	RT12ZCN9RGBG8	038549372X	422219355	The Wounded Prophet: A portrait of Henri J.M. Nouwen	Books	3	31	37	N	N	Reverent, But Attempts to Cast a Shadow on Nouwen's Work	This book seems to heave a big, weary sigh of regret that Nouwen failed, in some way, to benefit from his own giftedness. I would caution the biographer (and those who read this otherwise worthwhile selection) that Nouwen's ability to survive as long as he did, fighting to love, to write, to share, and to be loved--all while maintaining his vows--is proof that his message worked something akin the miraculous in his own life. Other souls with as much innate neediness and wounding as Henri could have easily gravitated into a world of hatred, cynicism, drug-use, alcoholism, promiscuity, and eventual suicide. I've seen it happen many times. We've ALL seen this scenario played out before us in millions of tragic lives. The sheer fact that Henri remained in the realm of the living, and accomplished genuine sharing and love despite his deep wounding, is stunning proof that his God have him good advice, that Henri took this advice, and that its power kept him primarily in a world of Light... against excruciating emotional odds. The glass may look half-empty, but sometimes it's merely half-full, friends. As to the question of whether or not Nouwen was gay, I don't think it matters one bit. What DOES matter is that Nouwen himself never felt the need to make a public, worldwide pronouncement about such an orientation, nor publicly debate how such an orientation may have affected his writing...one way or the other. In light of THAT reality, persons of true integrity might wish to maintain a similarly appropriate silence on that subject, at least in Henri Nouwen's personal regard. This work is yet another prime example of how impossible it is for any biographer to truly get inside the essence and soul of any subject--no matter how penetrating their research or how noble their intentions. That said, the author gives us an otherwise good pass at Henri's life and a look at some of the things that probably made him tick. But steer clear of judging the ultimate state of souls, no matter what the exterior, Michael Ford--especially those as complex as Nouwen's. THAT kind of biography can only be written by God.	2001-12-16
US	50075613	R1KWYN952GY468	0312272162	247560412	Silent Soul: The Miracles And Mysteries Of Audrey Santo	Books	1	12	44	N	N	An Outrage Of The Highest Order	This book, along with the pathetic treatise written by Thomas Petrisky(Little Audrey), is a grim sign of the deterioration of Catholic spirituality in the Diocese of Worcester, and a sad commentary on the desperate, tacky world of Catholic &quot;kitsch&quot; devotion. The bishop of Worcester should be reprimanded and harshly castigated by his superiors for being so foolish as to give this transparently fraudulent gaggle of &quot;miracles&quot; the dignity of an &quot;official investigation!&quot; The parents of this child should be publicly horsewhipped, at the very least, for the utterly grotesque violation of their daughter's human dignity and manipulation of the ignorant Catholic populace, all in the name of third-rate &quot;religion.&quot; Audrey Santo is a child who fell into a pool and &quot;virtually&quot; drowned as a toddler, and who suffered irreversible brain-damage as a result. Her mother is a certified religious neurotic/psychopath, who claims that her vegetative, paralyzed daughter is a miracle child who &quot;must now take all the sufferings&quot; of the world into her body and spirit, as a &quot;victim soul.&quot; It's not enough that Audrey's drowning was a tragedy, and the loss of a functional human life as God intended life to be. Oh no. NOW she becomes, due to the mother's hysteria, a &quot;victim,&quot;--the victim of a God who wishes to heap as much suffering upon an already broken child as He can, all in order to &quot;strengthen&quot; people's faith and convert them. Audrey lies persistently comatose in a bed that has been dolled up like a plush coffin. Hundreds of gaping, gawking people file by her bed to witness how marvelously powerless she has been rendered in order to fulfill her mission as a &quot;sponge&quot; for the sins of the world. They gasp at the various miraculous &quot;poses&quot; that paralyzed Audrey takes from one day to the next. Today her little arms are spread outward on the bed in the manner of Christ on the cross. Tomorrow they are laid across her breast, with hands folded in prayer. Naturally, &quot;angels&quot; have manipulated her position during the night for the edification of the faithful. Even more disturbing, bruises appear on Audrey's body, due to fierce bouts with Satan, who allegedly likes to batter paralyzed children in order to prove his mischievousness. On her hands appear &quot;stigmata&quot; wounds. On the walls, cheap, ugly plaster statues of saints &quot;weep&quot; what investigators have already analyzed in labs as &quot;a simple mixture of olive oil and chicken fat.&quot; The Santo home is full of every garish, outmoded, gaudy statue and assortment of religious hexereii in existence. And no one has reported these dastardly, exploitative parents to the proper authorities. Even the bishop of the Diocese allows these mockeries of the true Gospel to trash the name of Christ, what's left of the credibility of the Catholic Church, and the name of a Loving God whose true power is grounded in the miracle of Existence itself---not fourth-rate parlor tricks. This child is a victim, alright--the victim of a dim-witted, religiously psychotic family and their handlers.It's bad enough to exploit and abuse a healthy child: to torture a child who is utterly defenseless is the pinnacle of hell on earth. This hoax pierces to the heaven of heavens in its banal audacity. It cries murderously for a swift and thundering justice. What if this little child, in her semi-comatose state, is truly conscious of what's going on, of all the bizarre happenings and abuses around her? What if she is literally trapped inside the shell of her own body and her own head, unable even to scream for help or beg for release from the warped affectations of her handlers as they beat bruises onto her forehead, or pound hemotomas onto her limbs in order to give the jabbering flocks the impression of a &quot;miracle?&quot; Everyone who partakes of this atrocity brings a condemnation upon themselves---no matter how ignorant. This local bishop's refusal to stand up for the Gospel and loudly condemn this mockery is a stinging disgrace that cries to Heaven for justice. The bishop of Worcester is either a coward or an opportunist, and I pray he's more the former than the latter, for the good of his own soul.This book is chilling in its portrayal of one of the most pathetic displays of religious mania and travesty in America today. God help the Catholic Church, because if this is the epitome of its miracle-awareness, then it is an institution that has fallen farther than anyone might dare to dream. If this whole Audrey bit isn't a case of religiously-manifested Munchaussen's-by-proxy syndrome, I don't know WHAT is.	2001-11-22
US	50075613	R1DVJFZ98A8XCV	0966415515	61412939	Fishing For Piranha	Books	5	2	2	N	N	High Camp...genuinely Wicked	God and the Virgin Mary in a miracle contest? Gators that eat bullies and poor old ladies' poodles? Birthday parties that turn into demon-exorcisms at the drop of a hair-doily? What the heck IS a hair-doliy, anyway? If God is really Catholic or even Fundamentalist, then this author is going straight to hell...but hopefully he'll write a few more knee-slappers like this intelligent, campy poke at human hypocrisy before he's burned at the stake...hee hee. Be warned; this one ain't for your aunt Nellie, especially if she lives in the South.	2001-09-11
US	50075613	REKL2HQVIEL2K	0312261209	517020252	The Wild Card: A Novel	Books	4	0	0	N	N	The Perfect Book For Guys To Bond With	Joseph's new book, &quot;The Wild card,&quot; finds the author taking an interesting break from his usual techno-thriller style of writing and exploring new territory as a spinner of more broadly accessible suspense yarns. The result is a rather winning piece of work, at least in terms of storytelling. First of all, the whole book has a sort of Americana, meat-and-potatoes ambience in terms of its writing--Joseph brings to mind Stephen King's knack for evoking eras, places, and events in the recent American past and in the present, and the ability to capture the straightforward emotions of individual characters embroiled in those &quot;snapshots of time,&quot;--especially in somewhat questionable, shady situations.The feel reminds me of King's short story &quot;The Body,&quot; upon which &quot;Stand By me&quot; was based, and this is a favorable comparison, obviously. The book starts right off the bat with suspense; within two pages Joseph conjures the indelible image of a busy riverside suburb in northern California--an image suddenly twisted by the problematic discovery of a skeleton. 'The Wild Card' is a character-driven tale, so it helps that the reader can't help but take a liking to the very first character Joseph draws: a female bulldozer operator who discovers the bones and is forced to take a ten-minute cigarette break in the cab of her vehicle, pondering in the workday heat while her inner-moral compass decides whether to report the finding or simply &quot;ditch&quot; the cadaver and keep her paycheck secure. Being, as Joseph describes, &quot;an honest sort,&quot; she spills the beans and sets in motion the typically American brand of frantic investigative activity that usually leads to the suspicion of foul play. Now, the stage is set for the heart of the story: five men with a potentially shattering secret in their pre-Vietnam era past--four of these men still meet annually for a raucous poker game in a San Francisco hotel suite, but ONE of the former clique, a near-vagabond gambling addict named Bobby, has ostracized himself from his friends' yearly revelries. Trust me: he has good reason. However, with the grisly discovery, the jig is suddenly up and Joseph successfully creates the tense, charged atmosphere of an almost ritualistic poker gathering. Instead of halting their good time, the discovery of the skeleton brings this bunch of guys together in a palpably tense, almost frightening manner. Joseph's writing is effective enough here that you almost want to reach in and wipe the sweat from their foreheads. What each of them has to reveal about their recollection of poor Sally (and her long-ago fate) seems designed by the author to show the nature of the tricky business we might call &quot;individual human perspective.&quot; Of course, card game imagery is &quot;shuffled&quot; into the plot at a number of turns, but it doesn't come off as being too contrived because Joseph is sort of churning toward a conclusion that brings these images into union with his number one image: *THE* wild card--poor, enigmatic Bobby McCorkle. Obviously, the story whips up the suspense quotient at a swift pace, and the whole point is to make you salivate for the conclusion (and believe me, you do). Also of note:the San Francisco setting is used to extremely good effect throughout the tale--if the author is planning another thriller set in the city by the bay, then that is good news, because his particular vision of San Francisco grabs. On a very minor note, the dialogue of Joseph's characters can be inexplicably clunky, but only on a few occasions, and their use of profanity is often so gratuitous as to be genuinely irritating and too contrived. This book is, without question, the ideal read for a man who wants to kick back in his easy chair after a hard-day's work, drink a Scotch (or a Bud), and sink into a fast-paced, gripping tale about five other guys who are knee-deep in some potentially serious manure ...basically,this book has&quot;guy&quot; written all over it. It's hard to find a man who hasn't taken part in the thrill of a poker game at some time or another, so &quot;Wild card&quot; is probably the best book out right now to buy as a gift for a man--whether he reads a great deal or not. Buy it, and watch how easy it is for your husband or boyfriend to really bond with a book.	2001-09-11
US	50075613	R2IN6E6UBWUVFR	0061020664	260706411	Wyrd Sisters	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Rollickingly Brilliant Fantasy/Parody	I discovered the writing of Terry Pratchett when I happened to read a short story called 'The Sea and Little Fishes,' which was included in the Legends compilation series. That short story featured one 'Granny Weatherwax' and her companion Gytha Ogg, and the deadpan brilliance of the writing and imagination hooked me immediately. Since then, I have purchased and read every book in Pratchett's 'Granny Weatherwax' cycle (except Witches Abroad) and I have enjoyed each one of them immensely. Pratchett is sly, witty, fiendishly nonsensical when he has to be, masterful in his plotting when he has to be, and above all else, entertaining. Wyrd Sisters was an absolute hoot of a book, laced with memorable scenes, lines of cracklingly funny dialogue and fresh imagination. Pratchett knows how to walk the fine line between camp and clever, and he never misses a beat in his Granny books. Read and become hooked at your own peril.	2001-06-10
US	50075613	RXYW672UQ54CW	0140196188	484393046	Lourdes: Body and Spirit in the Secular Age (Compass)	Books	4	11	16	N	N	Impartial and Fascinating	This book is a gem simply for providing a detailed glimpse of the historical, social, political, and religious landscapes that surrounded the actual &quot;event&quot; of the apparitions. The author takes the figure of Bernadette and 'Aquero' firmly out of the strictly pious, sentimental realm and places them firmly in the realm of their time and circumstances--all without denying the events their fair sense of mystery. An important work that finally begins to give Lourdes its scholarly due in the secular sphere as well the religious.	2001-06-10
US	50075613	RH4QVHKBJDDEA	0679640924	743193338	The Catholic Church: A Short History (Modern Library Chronicles)	Books	5	16	27	N	N	Superb	Hans Kung has always done the theological world a marvelous service by calling the Christian mind to transcend its temporal notions of Gospel reality and distinguish between the &quot;real&quot; Catholic Church (which exists in the ancient liturgical, charitable, and spiritual traditions of millions) and the &quot;Roman&quot; Catholic Church, which, strictly as an institutional entity, has sought (through centuries of corruption and hubris) to stifle the movement of the Spirit.<br />   The whole truth is here...and nothing BUT the truth. Kung does an excellent job of showing how the Roman episcopate gradually took its simple &quot;primacy of honor&quot; in the post-apostolic church and aggressively, greedily deviated from the Gospel in seeking to establish a bizarre, completely non-Gospel stranglehold on the collective and individual Christian consciousness, all based upon structures of Roman empirical lust. He most effectively shows how the papacy went from originally being a position that served as a sign of Christian unity and collegiate servant-leadership, to an utter monstrosity staffed by one unqualified degenerate after another. The riches, the murders, the plotting, the scandal, the vice--all of it is historically documented and stands as a harrowing contrast to the pure message of the Gospel. Kung's demonstration of how papal infallibility &quot;came into being&quot; is enough to make any rational human dismiss the credibility of the Roman Curia for all time.It is especially sobering for fundamentalist Catholics to relaize that Rome, while always a mother Church and strengthening guide of Christianity, was not the undisputed power-engine it has always claimed to be. A must-have for all Catholics.	2001-05-13
US	50075613	R2YCBUA069IFOG	1573228281	454004836	A Gesture Life: A Novel	Books	5	28	29	N	N	Haunting and Insidious	Chang-rae Lee's 'A Gesture Life' pulls the reader's mind, emotions, and spirit into the snapshot-world of Doc Hata's town, Bedley Run--a typical American berg on the outskirts of NYC. Here, our senses are soothed by the images of stable, normal Americana, and the successful Japanese-American retiree who is comfortably part of that landscape. It's almost a vision of utter serenity at first, but Lee's transcendent prose makes sure that we recognize another truth: beneath all of this security, there is a drumbeat of primordial heartbreak, and a keening sense of loss. Slowly, expertly, without the reader even expecting it, Lee unfolds a tale of immense but elegant grief. He leads the reader through a veritable labyrinth of shocking regrets, brought on by experiences that hide so perfectly beneath the veneer of the main character's 'life of gesture.' The book is astonishing for its lyrical perfection, its poetic structure, and seamless continuity. It is truly a soul work to be savored and conveys a serious lesson about the tragedy of being human. Five shooting stars.	2001-03-08
US	50075613	R26DOOVUKK0OI1	1570981051	652933268	Sweet Liberty: Travels in Irish America	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Just an Absolute Scream	Honestly, I picked up Joseph O'Connor's 'Sweet Liberty' from Amazon because I wanted to see what kind of social commentary could possibly be  written by someone with the dubious distinction of being Miss Sinead  O'Connor's brother. I was ready for anything, but not the side-splitting,  absolute laughter and insight with which this man looks at Irish history  and the uniquely American version(s) of it. This book is better, in my  opinion FAR better, than 'Angela's Ashes.' O'Connor writes with all the wit  McCourt can summon and manages to be uplifting instead of depressing. I  swear, there's a fabulous insight and a good laugh on every page. O'Connor  writes with a style that combines intelligence and ease, as if you were  having a nice long chat with your best friend and actually talking about  something INTERESTING, for a change! I don't know where to begin in  describing the book's best parts; there are so many of them. O'Connors  recollections of his first childhood 'French Kiss' by a girl named Judy are  hilarious. His stint in a Massachusetts hotel dining room next to a couple  of arguing California lesbians had me nearly falling out of my chair. His  journeys to the various 'Dublin' towns of the USA are each magical in their  own way, and utterly bizarre. O'Connor introduces us to a number of VIPs  from Irish/American history, too...and each account makes for riveting  reading because O'Connor cloaks their various stories in his own lovably  irreverent wit. That's the best part of this great, great read: O'Connor's  commentary is laced with sharp humor but tempered with an undercurrent of  genuine affection for humanity and the places he has visited. His writing  is very moving at times, whether he's describing the madcap adventures when  his father flies over to meet him in New York on the Concorde, or when he's  recalling his two sisters and their constant car-sickness on childhood  family vacations (Sinead...we never knew ye had such a weak tummy!).  O'Connor sees America and does it all and laughs &quot;with&quot; us in the  most engaging, irresistible way. You'll pee your pants. Buy this book and I  guarantee you'll be up til' 2AM reading about this man's splendid  adventures.	2000-08-05
US	50075613	R3PXOHFQQI0KEJ	0312199988	632563672	The Salesman	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Startling and Atmospheric	Tautly written, with the kind of wry, dark humor that brings you just to edge of acceptance and never lets you go. This is a smashing work, and one of the best &quot;Irish novels&quot; I've read in awhile. Highly  recommended. (By the way, does everyone know that the author, Joseph  O'Connor, is none other than the brother of the famous Sinead O'Connor  Herself! )	2000-07-26
US	50075613	R2SUW1L7H1UR4X	0670891622	197999044	A Massive Swelling:  Celebrity Re-Examined As a Grotesque, Crippling Disease and Other Cultural Revelations	Books	4	5	9	N	N	Good stuff, but Keep the Editors Away and Let Cintra Explode	Cintra, your book is good. I realize that your arrival in the world of lit-ur-a-chur requires a somewhat new dynamic, and the overall effect is thoughtful, bristling with your usual insight, and shimmering with your  stiletto wit. However, you lose a minor point for rehashing (and barely  re-wording) a number of your column bits. (The hilarious  Awards-Show-Celine-Being-Controlled-With-Steering-Wheel comes to mind as  one of several examples). However, who can blame you for summoning those  images again for new readers...they are classic! Otherwise, I find that  you've covered some of your familiar territory from many new, scintillating  perspectives. Also, the essays in your book lack just a tiny smidge of the  raw impact of your columns. In the columns, I sense you hammering on the  keyboard with sweat pouring down your face and your pearly whites slowly  transmogrifying into Doberman choppers. In the book, I picture you seated  behind a mahogany desk in a neon-green leather nightie, typing with nothing  but your freshly-painted toenails. I don't know if this was the work of an  editor, or your own attempt to give your book-work a more  &quot;serious&quot; edge than your column-work. Personally, I take your  columns as seriously as a heart attack. They are brilliant. Your book is  darn good. Do another soon.	2000-07-25
US	50075613	RF1IXJ90GAY6V	0439139597	667539744	Harry Potter And The Goblet Of Fire (Book 4)	Books	2	7	18	N	N	Far From Classic...For Hyperactive Kids Only	I had to review the first two Potter books and now this one for a local newspaper, and found the task to be a chore. Like the first two books, this installment reveals that J.K. Rowling still substitutes rampant,  overstuffed imagination for clever writing and plot construction. There is  no secret behind this book's success with young kids: it reads like a  frantic, gluttonously effects-laden video game in its detail. EVERYTHING is  busy or magical: every ball, doorknob, picture, spoon, broom,  bowl,...EVERYTHING. The magic is so overdone that it becomes hyperactive at  best... mundane and trivial at worst. This book, like its predecessors, is  far from wondrous or mysterious. It finds a place in a culture where  &quot;overload&quot; has become synonymous with &quot;quality.&quot;  Further, Rowling's so-called &quot;brilliant imagination&quot; often comes  across as little more than good old-fashioned, amateurish self-indulgence.  It boils my blood to hear this fluff compared to Tolkien's work. Sadly,  with the Potter series, even books have become nothing more than  sensational toys. DOES IT HAVE A GOOD POINT? You bet! Kids are reading, at  least, and in record numbers. That alone makes Harry &amp; the Goblet of  Fire a great idea for children everywhere. Hopefully it will lead them to  read better works by far better writers. However, the number of ADULTS who  are drawn to the Potter books is utterly stupefying. It shows how low the  bar has fallen in adult literacy (and spiritual desperation!) when adults  start claiming that this series has &quot;changed their lives.&quot; To  adults who say that, I would say &quot;You need to get a life before you  can change it.&quot; Don't get me wrong: this book is fine for kids 9-15.  Anyone younger would probably not understand it. And any adult who sits  around pining for the release of the next installment should be really,  really embarrassed.	2000-07-22
US	50075613	R20GBOS5181VWB	0500051003	751160529	The Complete Temples of Ancient Egypt	Books	3	76	88	N	N	Mediocre Survey	This book is worth half its price for the photgraphic survey of Egyptian  temples alone. In this manner it maintains the quality of its predecessors,  'Complete Valley of Kings,' etc. However, from a scholarly standpoint, the  book was a bit disappointing. For example, the title &quot;Complete Temples  of Ancient Egypt,&quot; is simply an overstatement. Many small but  significant sites are completely left out (Kom Mer, El Qua'la, etc.)  Further, the author frequently makes no attempt to mention which god or  goddess owned the temples in his survey. For example, he could have noted  that the great lost temple at Antaeopolis was dedicated to Antiwey...a  Horus/Set fusion. He could have noted the Temple of Nephthys and Anukis at  Kom Mir, etc. Indeed, in most of his articles, he merely skims over the  temples without any depth (save for the most famous ones: Philae, Karnak,  Edfu, etc.). I found the information to be very basic, and had been looking  forward to greater scholarly detail about the history of each temple, the  deity of each temple, and more obscure temples mentioned (which are often  just as fascinating as the great sanctuaries). There are also a number of  errors in the information. All in all, a lavishly illustrated book for the  average Egyptophile, but not very satisfying to the advanced Egyptophile.  If you're going to spend a great deal of money, I would recommend Stephen  Quirke's absolutely fascinating 'The Temple in Ancient Egypt.'	2000-07-08
US	50075613	R1EN2RRP7BU22M	0679729526	58983679	The Aeneid (Vintage Classics)	Books	3	3	5	N	N	If You're Looking For Sturdy Virgil...	This translation is sturdy,and though not the definitive translation, it packs enough inspiration to serve as a compelling introduction to this most masterful of all poems. Nuff said.	2000-04-30
US	50075613	R3DNSFMSPNP9OE	068484477X	709347155	Stones from the River	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A Glimpse Into a Harrowing Time	Trudi Montag, the pint-sized heroine of Hegi's marvelous &quot;Stones From The River&quot; provides us with a glimpse into the cultural, racial, social phobias of the Nazi era. More than that, however,Hegi gives us a glimpse into the sometimes delicate, sometimes volatile, always valuable  mind of a being born to be set apart because of her size and appearance.  This is a thoughtful, thorough, and careful book, but excellently written  and thought-provoking in a myriad of ways. A fine piece of literature. Full  of worthwhile lessons about the human experience.	2000-04-30
US	50075613	R1XX1P009W1DPB	1573227978	117734468	The Beach	Books	5	1	1	N	N	a Stunner of a Debut	Garland's &quot;The Beach&quot; far surpasses the limpid film version. For one so young, Garland has created a shimmering coctail of suspense, angst, shock, and accusation--all set in a deceptive paradise and communicated in  superb prose. This book has the distinction of being a page-turner that  really allows the reader to marvel at the splendid quality of writing and  storytelling. A definitive and irresistible work, destined to be very hard  to repeat. Poor Garland.	2000-04-30
US	50075613	R1KQ3J7W1GX36D	0440178002	191357398	Shogun (Asian Saga)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Already A Classic, Its legend Will Grow In Years To Come	Look up the word 'sweeping' in any dictionary, and you find &quot;James Clavell's Shogun.&quot; A masterpiece of plotting, character development, intrigue, romance, suspense, historical research, and human spirit, this book will stand the test of time and surely ranks as one of the great  pieces of historical fiction ever written upon this earth. I have read it  yearly for well over a decade and its power to amaze never dims. It is the  only literary work that has ever made me weep for the sole reason that the  story comes to an end, that there must be a last page. reading 'Shogun' is  a humbling, masterful experience.	2000-04-30
US	50075613	R3NFDI8GQ2IK0R	0439064864	667539744	Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets	Books	2	18	43	N	N	3 Stars For Kids...1 Star For Adults	As a great fan of children's literature that demonstrates &quot;crossover appeal,&quot; I read the original Harry Potter book and now the Chamber of Secrets. They are both fine books, especially because they have caught the  rabid fascination of kids and inspired them to read. However,the magic in  both books is so ubiquitous that it comes across as mundane. Rowling is one  of those writers who actually overdoes it in the imagination department.  She really lets her imagination run rough-shod over the story itself. She  seems to have an obsession with making every doorknob, photo, stack of  cards, candle, teapot, cup, article of clothing, utensil, and SPECK OF DUST  into some magical entity. Instead of using good writing and clever metaphor  to create atmosphere or detail, Rowling simply makes everything into a  magical object.Instead of letting the magic &quot;pop up&quot; in  strategic, choice places (adding to the sense of mystery and wonder), we  are bombarded with it at every turn until it becomes ho-hum. I wouldn't be  surprised if the kitchen sink ends up being enchanted in one of these  books, or if Harry sits down on a talking toilet seat one day (Moaning  Myrtle notwithstanding).While Rowling is a decent story-teller, she is a  bit of a hack as a writer. Either that or she has editorial problems. There  are a number of misspellings and grammatical errors in this work. The  episodes in Chamber lack cohesion and often seem arbitrary, as if Rowling  is letting her indulgent imagination lead her off into pointless detours  rather than allowing a harmonious progression of the story. Some scenes end  abruptly, or seem altogether pointless and plotless. Harry is a good  character, but he is one-dimensional, like almost everyone in the book. I  think Rowling fills her story with so much gratuitous magic to cover up the  fact that her characters are really not very developed or interesting. It's  just like a blockbuster movie filled with non-stop, pointless special  effects in the hope that no one will notice that the script stinks and the  characters are made out of cardboard.The book also lacks the sort of  &quot;pure in heart&quot; hallmark of all the great children's books  (Narnia, Oz, etc. etc.) and the characters don't appear to stand for  anything greater than themselves.For example, all poor Hermione does is  roll her eyes and complain. Harry runs from one scene to the next never  really revealing much about himself--just reacting (or overreacting) to  everyone in this Magically-Overloaded world. He has about as much depth as  a kiddie pool. Draco Malfoy is capable only of smug smirking and run-of-the  mill pot-shots. The adult teachers at the Hogwart's school are also  somewhat lacking in warmth, personality, or teaching value--which is  usually a good thing to have in a child's book. I'm convinced that the  Potter series is pretty much what happens when an entire book is based upon  rampant, aimless imagination. Keep in mind that I'm writing this review of  Chamber of Secrets from an adult perspective. I heard that a great many  adults were becoming groupies of this series so I wanted to see what all  the fuss was about. I give this book(and the 1st) 4 stars for their value  for kids 8-12, but I can't see why any adult past the age of 20 would want  to read the whole series. Two were more than enough for me.I had no sense  of wonder when reading this book, and that was disappointing. However, it's  fantastic that so many young people are reading because of this fabulous  series of stories and this will translate into kids reading even more (and  even better)books besides. I also think it's pretty wonderful that Rowling  overcame financial hardships to make her tales a success. That's pretty  inspiring. But I feel Rowling's writing in Chamber of Secrets is still too  amateurish to please serious adult fans of great children's literature. For  adults, I would give it one star and suggest rediscovering CS Lewis or  Tolkien.lkien.	2000-03-01
US	50075613	RL7J3QAS2CZZG	0590353403	667539744	Harry Potter And The Sorcerer's Stone	Books	3	3	6	N	N	Smart But Gratuitous	Don't get me wrong: Rowling knows how to weave an imaginative story, but imaginative does not always mean clever, and clever goes hand-in-hand with delicious restraint. Her tale of Harry Potter (all four of her tales, to be  sure)must be commended for the ability to grip the attention of  child-readers and inspire such a literary phenomenon. If kids are devouring  these books like video games, all praise to Rowling and her publisher.  Personally, I think her characters are wooden, her descriptive powers are  mediocre, her plot is amateurish and her gratuitous use of magic lessens  the effect of the book. TOO MUCH magic makes the magic run-of-the mill, and  when magic is run-of-the mill in any child's fantasy tale, the Wonder  Factor plunges. All in all, a great book for kids aged 12 or so, but pretty  amateurish for the adult fan of the genre.I see nothing that makes a book  classic here, but realize a great many folks would disagree. Rowling DOES  have great potential, though, and I'm glad to see she's reaping the rewards  of getting kids to read! I'll read her subsequent books and see what she's  up to.	2000-02-20
