US	50079159	R3IMQUWMV50K78	0830815058	782549514	The Story of Christian Theology: Twenty Centuries of Tradition & Reform	Books	5	12	15	N	Y	Worth the time, effort to get a good theological overview	This book may be 600+ pages, making it a daunting task for the average Christian. But I recommend Olson's book because it gets the job done. If you want to have a good overview of the process of theology, this \\"story\\" is excellent. Written in a chronological fashion, Olson makes the facts come alive rather than mundane and dull as some other books have done. Yes, as one earlier reviewer said, Olson has his presupposions--which historian doesn't?--and his views do come out, like when he is talking about \\"fundamentalists\\" and \\"Calvinists.\\" But is there really any way to write in a completely objective fashion? It's a pretty difficult task, and I think every historian I've read has his/her own opinions, meaning the recording of history is quite subjective. So I don't think it's as big of a problem as that reviewer believed it to be. <br /> <br />My favorite part of the book was the first couple hundred pages. To me, it's obvious that Olson feels most comfortable with the first 5 centuries of the church, and this also happens to be my favorite part of church history to study. I had no qualms with how he presented everything, and the thorough index is a wonderful tool that I will probably use in the future as a reference book. All in all, I give this book a hearty thumbs-up. Just be patient and work your way through it, and you will be blessed.	2005-10-02
US	50079159	RAPJRF46A1DI4	1581344589	829818560	Total Truth: Liberating Christianity from Its Cultural Captivity	Books	5	8	17	N	Y	Clear thinking from a clear thinker	One would never know that Nancy Pearcey does what she does in a \\"part-time\\" capacity. This book, Total Truth, is as comprehensive a look at the Christian world view as I've ever seen. She is clear and makes excellent points throughout. I appreciated the fact that Pearcey supported her views with plenty of research. For too many years, Christianity has been held a cultural captive; every thinking Christian ought to read this book and perceive the world around them with a whole new persepctive. By no means is it \\"easy\\" reading, but worthwhile it is, as I give it a big thumbs up. Having enjoyed her previous book (with Chuck Colson) How Now Shall We Live as well, I look forward to hearing more from this clear-thinking author.	2005-09-11
US	50079159	R1UA9IPIFR6GLF	0801065224	873477677	I Love Mormons: A New Way to Share Christ with Latter-day Saints	Books	3	23	55	N	N	It's a culture...but don't say "cult"	David Rowe knows the \\"culture\\" of Mormonism as he has spent many years ministering in Utah. He points out that there are many good things about Mormonism, including family home evenings, taking care of their own, etc. And his section on speaking the language (\\"Mormonese\\") is very accurate. Until we key in on the language, Christians might as well speak Pig Latin and be just as understood. Indeed, Rowe has much to teach Christians about evangelism to a good culture, the Latter-day Saints.    However, there are some troubling aspects with this book that will prevent me from giving it a hearty recommendation. First off, the book's subtitle, \\"A New Way to Share Christ with Latter-day Saints,\\" comes off looking arrogant-like. Much of Rowe's style involves relational ministry (isn't this much like \\"friendship evangelism,\\" a term that is some 30 years old?), yet I'm not sure how this should be considered a \\"new\\" method. Most evangelical Christians would agree about the \\"gentleness and respect\\" factors (1 Peter 3), but can't a person be gentle and respectful while still sharing the truth? In fact, weren't there a few times when Jesus, Peter, and Paul rocked the boat while proclaiming truth? Any time Paul went to a new city, he headed for the synagogue and preached the truth \\"in love.\\" Oh, the leaders at the synagogue didn't like it-and Paul bore the scars from many rejections-but he kept on doing it. Galatians 4:16 says, \\"Have I now become your enemy by telling you the truth?\\"     While I agree that Mormonism comprises a \\"culture,\\" Rowe overuses the term; meanwhile, the term \\"cult\\" is disparaged. (He even apologizes for this word appearing on the book's back page barcode.) But since when did Mormonism cease being a cult? While some Christians have bad manners in their zeal to share the Christian faith, is it possible that the pendulum has swung too far to the other side and we end up tippy-toeing around when we should be bolder? How many people who are headed for hell needa wake-up call? Mormons need to know that their church is not Christian; after all, church leaders continue to deny or distort every fundamental teaching of the historic Christian church.     Although Rowe says we ought to avoid stereotypes on page 73, he does this very thing on page 80 regarding the use of published tracts and written information handed out on the streets. In fact, he associates this--maybe unwittingly--with \\"taunting,\\" saying this is \\"a more extreme, negative, in-your-face version of preachery. It occurs regularly in the leaflets and on the streets.\\" He then somehow ties all of this into the actions of the few but vocal fundamentalist preachers who, during LDS general conference weeks, \\"taunt, ridicule, and condemn...often at the top of their lungs.\\" Now, I might be wrong that Rowe is associating handing out tracts with taunting, but if I am, it's Dr. Rowe who has the doctorate in communication. But I think his association is unfortunate. Allow me to share a recent experience.    I stood outside the Newport Beach Temple during the first week of its open house in July 2005 and, for 12 hours a day, I offered a special 4-page informative newspaper to open house visitors. One non-LDS guest (he was in his 20s) stopped by and began asking questions. After an hour of conversation (along with his perusing our material), he looked at my partner and me in a very concerned manner and bluntly stated, \\"I was thinking about getting baptized into this church, but they never told me any of this. I'm not going to join now.\\" We have seen a number of Mormons as well who have benefited from the information we provide on the web and at outreaches like this. Given the right circumstances as well as the proper motivation, witnessing to the masses using a variety of methods such as giving away handouts and providing Internet sites on signs can be quite effective.     Isn't it true that we are not all called to do ministry in the same way? As Paul says in 1 Corinthians 3,some are called to till the soil, some to water, and others to reap. But nobody should ever say \\"my method is the best\\" (or the \\"new\\") way and infer that other methods are ineffective. Truly, Rowe appears to be quite effective with his methods, and I commend him for it. He has found what works for someone like him who lives in Utah. But, as they say, be careful not to throw the baby out with the bathwater.    I also scratched my head when he talked about misconceptions he had when he first moved to Utah. \\"I figured if I just blathered away at them with enough well-argued Bible verses, they would automatically get enlightened, fall to their knees, and repent,\\" he wrote. This sounds pretty unreasonable. I think he makes it appear that it's an all-or-nothing proposition: either you use apologetics or you expound on your relationships. Why can't there be a marriage of the two methods?     Finally, I was very disappointed with his resource list. It appears the purpose of the list was to help a person better comprehend the Mormon culture. But his choices puzzled me. Only one book was a Christian resource on how to better understand the doctrines and practices of Mormonism (\\"Speaking the Truth in Love to Mormons\\" by Mark Cares, which I highly recommend.)  Except for this, however, there was no direction to the wealth of information available to Christians today, including a number of outstanding resources from the Tanners. And only two websites are provided: the Mormon Church site and the seminary site. If you are going to provide only 19 recommendations, I could think of at least 13-15 better resources than these.    Despite its title and creative picture on the front cover, \\"I Love Mormons\\" provides methodology while not providing specific tools to help Christians \\"share Christ with Latter-day Saints.\\" With better choices out there to understand the mindset of a Latter-day Saint and explaining Christian how-to witnessing tips, I would not begin my research here.	2005-08-14
US	50079159	R1LWUNG29610XA	0801064694	477840418	Without a Doubt: Answering the 20 Toughest Faith Questions (Reasons to Believe)	Books	5	31	35	N	Y	Concise yet fully informative	A critic of Samples writes that there is nothing new in this book and that he is more convinced it is Christianity that is wrong, not atheism. Pardon me, but did this fellow read the book? Samples offers some of the very best in Christian apologetic responses to humankind's most pressing questions. If the fellow was expecting a centerfold with pictures of God, Jesus leaving the tomb, etc., then I'm afraid this is never going to happen. But the evidence is clearly there to show that, while we don't have full knowledge of all spiritual inquiries, the information we do have available very clearly shows that there are plausible answers to even the tough questions. We just don't have easy answers, and this is because we lack omniscience. (Yet even science does not have all the answers, or I ask, \\"How many planets are there?\\" Nine, all textbooks say, even the most up-to-date. But could there be 10, as a recent discovery in July 2005 shows? And really, how do we know that there are not 11 or 12 planets?)  <br /> <br />While the information in this book is certainly available elsewhere (When Skeptics Ask by Geisler and Handbook of Chrsitian Apologetics by Kreeft come to mind), I believe Samples did a wonderful job by making \\"Without a Doubt\\" very understandable. I really believe that the typical layperson should be able to pick this up and, in three weeks (one chapter a night), have better answers to give those who ask these questions (1 Peter 3:15-16). Therefore, I recommend the book, even to the skeptical atheist. But then, if you remain atheistic in your belief system, I would love to see your answers to these questions.	2005-08-12
US	50079159	R36P6Z7P7G84D4	0517129876	654733241	Why America Doesn't Work	Books	5	7	8	N	N	What? Me work!	The title of this older book was catchy, and I decided I wanted to see \\"how the decline of the work ethic is hurting my family and future.\\" It's an easy read, and Colson and Eckerd make some very good points about America's habits. My fear is that our educational system combined with our declining work ethic will mean we are going to be overtaken by the Chinese--we just seem to have a potbelly attitude and think everyone owes us because of who we think we are. I especially appreciated the research on prisoners who were more likely to become better citizens if they learned to work in the prison rather than just sit around and eat/watch TV. People with a purpose are much more beneficial to themselves, their families, and society as a whole than if they lazy bums. Good stuff...now, let's get to work.	2005-08-04
US	50079159	R2IR0ZG047HZ34	1560851813	397386055	Losing a Lost Tribe: Native Americans, DNA, and the Mormon Church	Books	4	43	61	N	Y	DNA causing the church mega problems	On the LDS website, it is thus written: \\"Recent attacks on the veracity of the Book of Mormon based on DNA evidence are ill considered. Nothing in the Book of Mormon precludes migration into the Americas by peoples of Asiatic origin.\\" This is pure baloney. Members have been instructed, still are, that the Indians (and Polynesians) are ancestors of the Lamanites. I have met only rare Morons who don't believe what they have been taught. The church is caught in a situation that, like the Book of Abraham fiasco, has required changes to be made in the official sotyr. First, the leaders have taught that the Native Americans are descendants of Lehi. Then, they say, not necessarily so. However, it appears that they have had to do so merely because the evidence is against them.  <br /> <br />In this book, Simon Southerton writes in a very readable way that provides evidence to show that the ancient Americans did not come from Israel as the Book of Mormon reports. The information he presents is strong, and it just doesn't look good for those attempting to hold to the idea that the ancient American's ancestors were Jews. He does a good job showing how \\"FARMS remains an insular group that preaches to the choir,\\" as LDS scholarship is still trying to formulate exactly how to answer the evidence brought forth. So far, I have been little impressed with anything they have introduced. Overall, this is a readable book. I don't agree with all of the conclusions Southerton makes, but as far as the evidence that the ancient Americans were Asiatic, I just don't see how it can be refuted. This is a book every thinking Mormon should consider to evaluate whether or not all of the BOM stories from Primary were about a literal people on this literal continent. If the Book of Mormon is fictional, then, as one leader admitted, the whole religion will fall apart.	2005-08-01
US	50079159	R2JTYFGFHE5D6G	0802828760	186361013	A Different Jesus?: The Christ of the Latter-day Saints	Books	2	33	100	N	N	A different Jesus? Yes	First off, I want to say that whatever the reason Eerdmans published this book, it was not very wise. Why not just have Deseret publish this? Should we expect Eerdmans to now find a Muslim cleric and prove how the Islamic Jesus is the same? How about the Jesus of the Watchtower? Just the very idea that a Christian publisher is producing this book gives the wrong impression. A debate, I can understand. But a treatment like this, I just do not comprehend the rationale. <br /> <br />Next, I want to say that Robert Millet is one of the smartest men around. After all, if your product--in this case, Mormonism--doesn't have all the history of, say, a Coca-cola, what is the best tactic you could have in order to make your Johnny-come-lately \\"Foda-soda\\" sell? Of course, compare yourself to the original and  show how the two sodas are so much alike. This is what Millet has been able to accomplish, not only with this book but with his converasation-with-an-evangelical meetings that make Mormonism look so \\"Christian.\\" It's akin to having the wolf over for dinner and making him wait in your sheep pen (with your prized animals) while you go to the store. It won't take long before the innocent will become wolf chow. I think the Bible is very clear to differentiate ourselves from those around us. Hence, the book of Galatians--Paul's first book--is adament that false gospels should have no place in our lives (Gal. 1:8,9). This is why the second epistle of John tells us not to allow someone who does not have the same faith take the pulpit. (And isn't this what Eerdman's has done?) <br /> <br />I will give the book a second star, though, because there are some times when Millet does give some evidence that the Jesus and gospel of Mormonism are indeed different from the definitions of the historic Christian faith. However, more often than not, he doesn't do this very clearly. For instance, in his glossary, he describes Jesus as having \\"the only name by which salvation can come.\\" Now what exactly does this mean? Is he referring to justification, as Acts 4:12 is talking about? Does this mean good works are not necessary to progress to the celestial kingdom? He goes on with the definition, yet there is nothing that would trouble the typical Evangelical Christian who has not had a chance to study the LDS religion. (This was confirmed to me just a minute ago when I read this paragraph to my friend.) The problem comes because Mormons and Christians use the same terminology (i.e. Jesus, saved, salvation, etc.) but have different meanings attached. I noticed that Millet is able to get away with this, most times, because he utilizes quotes that muddle the situation and does not clearly communicate to the Christian how different the two gospels are. He also loves to quote Christians who seem to support his position. For instance, he (like many LDS) loves C.S. Lewis. I'm wondering if the Latter-day Saints believe that Lewis was a closet Mormons or something. While Lewis did not have perfect theology, his main ideas (including those from Mere Christianity) are not in accordance with the teachings of Mormonism. <br /> <br />My final word concerns Richard Mouw's support of this book, apparently the key person who helped get it published. Mouw writes on page 183: \\"I think that an open-minded Christian reader of this book will sense that Bob Millet is in fact trusting in the Jesus of the Bible afor his salvation.\\" My goodness. Millet describes Jesus--with nobody questioning his definitions or conclusions--and a Christian seminary president appears to accept him at his word and practically declare him a Christian brother in the Lord. This really takes the cake, and I must say that the Mormons certainly must think that Millet is a very useful person in their movement as he helps make Mormonism into one of Protestant's largest denominations. If I were a Mormon, I would probably apply to Mouw's seminary and use this experience to give myself even more credibility with Christian audiences. Truly this type of foolishness must certainly make the Jesus as described in the Bible very sad indeed.	2005-08-01
US	50079159	R1XW5AS01BH2J2	0764220489	945649161	Scripture Alone: Exploring the Bible's Accuracy, Authority and Authenticity	Books	4	5	11	N	Y	Sola scriptura is the rule	James White does a solid job explaining why the Bible is \\"accurate, authoritative, and authentic.\\" Plenty of support is utilized to show what the Bible comes first. The first place a person will attack the Christian is in this area of our authority, so knowing how to answer questions related to this issue is vital. There were plenty of examples given--including a number of sample conversations (which perhaps took a little too long to develop and could innocently move into the \\"straw man\\")--that helps a person better understand how to deal with this issue in a thinking way. Overall, I recommend the book.	2005-08-01
US	50079159	RHJ32741JF91	0310250617	867628898	Is Your Church Ready?: Motivating Leaders to Live an Apologetic Life	Books	4	10	11	N	Y	Getting the church ready to do the work	We are called to \\"be prepared (always!) to give an answer to everyone who asks us to give the reason for the hope that we have,\\" doing this with \\"gentleness and respect.\\" Unfortunately, many in the church today are not motivated to defend their faith. As this book points out, a number of Christians who go to college end up losing their faith because they had not based their faith on God's Word and were easy fodder for the secular humanist professors at the university. This book has a series of articles with good advice on \\"motivating leaders to live an apologetic life.\\" The read is simple enough, and while there is nothing absolutely \\"earth-shattering\\" in it, solid advice is provided. I recommend this book for pastors and youth pastors especially to help them realize ways they can get their charges motivated to do what God has directly commanded. Thanks for reading my reviews, as this is #200. I look forward to the next #200--if only I had more time in the day!	2005-07-19
US	50079159	R31GMRKR51V5BS	0830827358	57584834	To Everyone an Answer: A Case for the Christian Worldview	Books	4	13	15	N	Y	A solid piece by some scholarly names	This tribute to Dr. Geisler is a worthwhile read as \\"a case for the Christian worldview\\" is provided. Articles by such people as Gary Habermas, William Lane Craig, and others were very interesting and educational. I especially liked the chapter written by Greg Koukl as being the most applicable to apologetics, as he showed how to \\"apply apologetics to everyday life.\\" Several of the articles were a little wordy and could have been much simplified, meaning that some laypersons may get easily bored. But overall, I think the book did its job.	2005-07-19
US	50079159	R3FR2R46HFDY7L	0801010195	691407926	Oneness Pentecostals and the Trinity	Books	5	26	35	N	Y	Good overview of UPC	There are a number of well-meaning individuals found in UPC and Apostolic churches who have an immense hatred for the Trinity. \\"It's not a word found in the Bible,\\" adherents often cry, begging the question that words they use to describe the Godhead are not found there either (i.e. \\"oneness\\"). In this book, Boyd does a good job explaining why the Trinity is true, as the concepts are clearly taught in scripture. But UPC people often don't end up with merely rejecting the Trinity; they also say a person must be water baptized (by them, of course, in Jesus' name only) and abide by their numerous rules and regulations. They are, leaders will say, the only true church. Meanwhile, justification and sanctification--important terms in soteriology--are mixed up in a hodgepodge, as there is no distinction. This is a perfect environment for a legalistic mindset and, if I may be so bold, creates a cult. Thus, anyone who has ears, let him hear what the Word of God truly has to say about the subject. Boyd's work is a big help in explaining the prooftexts used by UPC advocates so that answers may be given to all.	2005-07-19
US	50079159	R7NLR1TCJ5S0V	0609609912	529996899	Leaving the Saints: How I Lost the Mormons and Found My Faith	Books	3	28	42	N	N	It's Beck's word versus her father's	When it comes down to it, it's the testimony of a daughter against her father, and only Hugh Nibley (who is now deceased) will know if he ever abused his daughter back in the 60's. The evidence is circumstantial, and thus to say for sure that the events described in the book ever took place is spotty, to say the least. There are some problems I had with Beck's evidence: a tear in her private area (which was not discovered by a doctor until after Beck had given birth) and some memories stirred up in counseling sessions. Could it all be imagined? Possibly. But Beck's life seems to have been so messed up from the start that perhaps she is telling the truth. Yet her testimony is flawed. For instance, I found several discrepencies in her story, including the account that her husband left the church later in the fall of 1993, and then a chapter later she said that she was scared about keeping her job in 1993 because her husband had publicly left--the chronology just didn't fit.  <br /> <br />Her husband John also has written a one-star Amazon review of her book where he says there were a number of discrepancies in her account. This bothers me. Though I am not Mormon, I would have to say there is insufficient evidence to convict her dad of child molestation, and unfortunately this is the way it will have to be. I'm also uncomfortable with the fact that the book makes it look like her marriage was fine, though she and John have been divorced for a decade now. I'm also unclear why she fails to tell us anything about her homosexuality, something she must have been practicing for more than a year or two and therefore played a role in her divorce and leaving the church. (Why wasn't this issue discussed??? It certainly should have been a part of her story...why doesn't she acknowledge or deny if she left Mormonism, in part, because she was attracted to other women? With so much private information already provided, the reader really ought to know.) <br /> <br />All in all, the read is interesting--Beck has a fluid writing style--and the culture she describes of Utah is very accurate based on my own experience there (and I'm not LDS). But I think Beck could have done better in getting all the facts straight and somehow provide more evidence that her father really did all that she claims or else not write the book. With the lack of evidence that she is able to provide, I believe this is an issue that she should have kept private for the sake of her parents' memory, her children, and John (who, in my book, was a much more sympathetic character in the book and with whom I identified  much more readily...after all, he had to put up with so much garbage coming from the self-centered Martha). The book is worth a read, but it ought to be considered with a grain of salt.	2005-07-19
US	50079159	R2GEUDAWVHS3U5	0801077567	323646197	Index of Watchtower Errors 1879 to 1989	Books	4	15	19	N	N	Great if you're looking for original Watch Tower quotes	This book is made up entirely of JW quotes from authoritative works, especially the Watchtower magazines. If you are doing research and want to look some things up, this work is very handy. It would not be a good book just to pick up and read, but it does offer a variety of quotes on everything from the predictions of Christ's return to blood, birthdays, and salvation. I like having the quotes...yet I only wish there was a way to see these quotes in their context (photocopies?). Also, some quotes were not in quotation marks, making me wonder if some of them were paraphrases rather than word-for-word quotes. But otherwise, a good resource to keep on hand.	2005-06-26
US	50079159	R1O7YST7IHFMAK	0801009952	734833669	Understanding Jehovah's Witnesses: Why They Read the Bible the Way They Do	Books	5	7	8	N	Y	Getting to understand the JW mentality	One of the hardest things to do for a Christian attempting to share his/her faith with a JW is to understand from where the Witness comes. Bowman does an excellent job in this book giving the mindset of a Witness in a fair and even compassionate manner. He covers some hermeneutical issues, even spending an entire chapter on Luke 23:43 and analyzing it. This is probably not the only book a person should own--I might recommend Rhodes' \\"Reasoning from the Scriptures with a Jehovah's Witness\\"--but it's a good supplimentary volume that I believe the average layperson should be able to understand and even utilize.	2005-06-26
US	50079159	R2DVEGJYZXN01P	193123230X	827909824	Jehovah's Witnesses: Their Claims, Doctrinal Changes, and Prophetic Speculation. What Does the Record Show?	Books	5	37	42	N	Y	The evidence will be hard to refute	Although it is not an extremely readable book--this is because there are a lot of quotes since it is meant to be a general resource more than just a book you sit down and read--I know of nothing more valuable that so clearly depicts the JW's prophetic record. And it doesn't look good for the folks in Brooklyn. I believe that any thinking Witness who was to consider the false prophetic claims as produced by Watchtower leaders and shown in this book would have their world shaken apart, so caution on their part must be taken before picking this up to read. But truth is something that is worthwhile to find and grasp, and in this case, I highly recommend the Witness go through the well-documented records as put together by Gruss and determine this: If the Governing Body could be so wrong about so many things in its entire history, what else could they be wrong on? (i.e. view of God, view of Jesus, view of authority, view of salvation, etc.) For these are not just men claiming to be fallible leaders, but rather, their very words are examined and studied by the 7 million JWS located around the world as being equal in authority with anything the Bible says. And these kind folks are coming to our doors, urgently trying to share their faith. I believe a book like this would be valuable on the shelf of every Christian who realizes that, when a Witness knocks on their door, it's time to go to work and share our faith--and we don't even have to take our bedroom slippers off!) The amount of work that went into this book is incredible--my hat's off to Ed Gruss, a great researcher on the religion of the Jehovah's Witnesses.	2005-06-22
US	50079159	R1OJ18E3QY24MQ	0310704413	663015875	Unmasking the Cults	Books	4	4	5	N	Y	Good overview of what makes up a "cult"	This introduction to the OM Guide to Cults and Religious Movements gives plenty of information about what a cult is. It is written in outline form, which makes it a little hard to follow. Also, the examples are haphazard, which means there is a lot of bouncing around and not a whole lot of depth about any particular group. (I guess the more you already know about a group, the better you will understand, but I guess that's what the rest of the series is about.) Overall, though, if you want to skim through this in an hour, you would have good information from which to work.	2005-06-19
US	50079159	R4S5A5OW4INFP	0842322272	598483356	The Daily Walk Bible: NIV	Books	5	21	22	N	N	I like the style	I haven't done a one-year reading of the Bible for several years. I think I got burned out from using another Bible set for several years in a row. But I've really enjoyed this one. It is a straight-through-the Bible format, which is something I normally haven't done (I think because I wasn't excited about having to wait until the fall to get into the New Testament!). But I have been fine staying in the OT as long as I have. I enjoy the commentary, and most days I get something out of the writer's insight; this commentary has also caused me to often focus on a particular point, giving me a new appreciation for it. In addition, it's nice that they have every 7th or 8th day \\"off,\\" meaning if you miss a day, you can still catch up with that freebie. This has saved me several times whereas I otherwise might have given up--I'm a perfectionist and would practically quit than just pick up after missing several days. But I've been able to stay with it this entire year. I definitely recommend this Bible for those who need structure in their daily devotional life.	2005-06-19
US	50079159	RS7WM6VQZUH34	1560851570	810243548	An Insider's View of Mormon Origins	Books	5	41	51	N	Y	Every Mormon ought to consider it	Grant Palmer is, IMHO, an honest and sincere man who happens to be LDS. I had lunch with him last summer and am intrigued by his desire to want to love Jesus. He has done the research and recognizes that the way the LDS Church started through Joseph Smith is littered with a number of troubling aspects, especially when Joseph Smith himself is considered. Palmer is honest, writes a book about it, and then receives a slap on the wrist last year from church headquarters, as they don't like it when anyone attempts to question the origin of their faith. (The book was printed in 2002, but it took two years before the authorities did anything about it.) Honesty not allowed, I guess would be the moniker. He says he still holds to \\"Joseph Smith's teachings on many topics, such as the plan of salvation and his view that the marriage covenant extends beyond death....But when it comes to the founding events, I wonder if they are trustworthy as history...But I realize that the focus of my worship, as a Mormon, is Jesus Christ.\\" As far as the history of what Palmer reports, most of it easily coincides with other writings of history by both secular and LDS authors.  <br /> <br />Despite what his LDS critics may say, Palmer makes valid points. To me, the issue centers on whether or not the Jesus of the Bible the same Jesus as declared at official church conferences and publications? If so, this is certainly a problem as Paul declared in 2 Cor. 11:4. In addition, does Mormonism's history have a number of inconsistencies and brow-raising claims (as raised by Palmer)? (In other words, do we have an Orwellian reporting of Smith and the history behind the foundation of the Mormon Church?) If so, then can we trust anything the church has to say today, especially when its decrees and doctrines denies or distorts every fundamental teaching of the historic Christian church? These questions that should not be glossed over. <br /> <br />All in all, I highly recommend this book and suggest thatall sincere Mormons read it with open eyes. After all, there is nothing more important than discovering \\"what is truth.\\"	2005-06-02
US	50079159	R14W594ZR88QR9	0310922747	745014023	TNIV Thinline Bible	Books	5	42	47	N	N	Solid piece of translational work	Having been extensively criticized by many who really have no clue about what they are talking about, the TNIV is an excellent translation that utilizes modern English. Many of the translation's critics are not schooled in the field of textual criticism and/or the biblical languages; thus, they really have no business protesting as loudly as they do. But what the TNIV does well is make the Bible extremely readable and thus less likely to be misunderstood by the average layperson. For instance, the word \\"anthropos\\" in most biblical contexts is referring to all people, not just those of the male gender. To make this clear, the TNIV explicitly states that both men and women are referred to in the context. This goes from \\"all people\\" who have sinned to salvation being available to both men and women alike. It should be mentioned that nowhere does the TNIV make God a neuter \\"it\\" or \\"he/she.\\" To repeat, this is never done at all, which is what many of the layperson critics apparently think the translation did.<br /><br />The only thing I don't care for in the translation is having the plural \\"them/their\\" refer to a singular antecedent; I guess it's the way modern English has gone, but to me, it only invites confusion. But if this is the way modern English is going, who am I to complain? Overall, the Thinline Bible is an easy-to-read and accessible translation that I look forward to reading in future months and years.	2005-04-25
US	50079159	R1ENCFREU91GVS	0805076824	926765114	102 Minutes: The Untold Story of the Fight to Survive Inside the Twin Towers	Books	4	3	4	N	Y	A time history will not forget	I usually don't read this type of literature, but I was intrigued by what I read from the jacket and decided to try it out. I was impressed with the amount of research the journalists had to do for this book. Incredible details are given, including the perspectives of those who later died when the north building pancaked. 102 Minutes is a solid read, but it was not as much of a page-turner as I had expected, possibly because it was hard to get to know any of the characters and the lack of development thereof. There were so many names and stories related that it was oftentimes hard to follow exactly what was taking place. Beside this, however, I learned a lot about the tragedy from the perspective of those fighting for their lives inside the towers, which I really had not heard before. Overall, the book is worth a read just for the sake of history and the important event this was in so many ways.	2005-04-25
US	50079159	R3RHFKXYHLTRKO	0762730145	30111264	Insiders' Guide to Yosemite, 2nd (Insiders' Guide Series)	Books	5	3	8	N	Y	Informative for your Yosemite trip	We used this book for a trip we took in the spring to Yosemite--I've been to Yosemite in all four seasons, and spring is definitely the best time to go--and were able to get much out of it. It's packed with information that, we found, to be quite accurate, though it really ought to be updated annually. But if you're looking for good pictures of the park, this is not the guide for you. (Most of the photos displayed throughout are black and white and really are not the best. Even the cover of Yosemite Falls is weak, completely missing the beautiful shot of both the upper and lower falls--how could this be missed? So if you want quality photos, go elsewhere.) I haven't seen all other books on Yosemite, but this one seemed to be popular, as it is even sold in gift shops in Yosemite Valley. I just don't think you will go wrong with this one.	2005-04-25
US	50079159	R2HCCI13K5ESYI	1581344872	846823399	Hard Questions, Real Answers	Books	5	60	70	N	Y	Even the layman can understand it	With 2 Ph.D.'s in his hip pocket and many scholarly writings to his name, William Lane Craig could go through life as a pompous ivory tower dweller. Instead, Craig has made himself available to the common man. From the information he provided Strobel in his layperson works to works like Hard Questions, Craig is understandable for any Christian willing to hear. This is a simple, 8-chapter book that hits issues like doubt, unanswerer prayer, and suffering and evil that would be a benefit to anyone struggling with these issues. The book is not meant to be comprehensive, and certainly with only 8 topics, there is much left out of the book. But what is here is very concise and straightforward. I don't agree with Craig every step of the way, though I understand the process of his thinking. (If you have ever heard him debate, from atheists to Muslims, you would understand why it would be intimidating to disagree with him to his face!) Overall, I recommend this book--have it on the shelf--and when an issue comes up (such as abortion, homosexuality, or whether or not a person can reach God through Christ alone), you will be ready with good information.	2005-03-22
US	50079159	RGFJCPX2I2HBN	B0006S2TXW	253773259	The Fallacy Detective: Thirty-six lessons on how to recognize bad reasoning	Books	5	22	24	N	N	Cute with a critical thinking point	The Fallacy Detective cannot be a good book because it was written by homeschoolers. <br /> <br />Ooops, there I go again, using a genetic fallacy. It's what you'll learn from a couple of home-school educated detectives who aim their book at those 13 and older. There are a number of cartoons--from Peanuts and Dilbert to a cartoon written by the authors' sister--that help keep interest in the simple, straightforward book as it deals with several dozen common fallacies. The exercises will help keep the student on the straight and narrow, making sure the ideas are solidified in the mind. I do recommend this book for kids as well as adults who would like to sharpen their critical thinking skills.	2005-02-22
US	50079159	R3DV9NLURQFS5D	0312288972	859125624	Do What Thou Wilt: A Life of Aleister Crowley	Books	3	8	25	N	Y	Crowley: The Man, the Legend, the Enigma	I needed to do some research on Crowley and looked over the books written about his life. After seeing what was out there, I decided that \\"Do What Thou Wilt\\" was the best offering there was, and so I chose it. Overall, the book seems to be a very fair account about one of the most repulsive men to have ever walked the earth. The life of Crowley certainly fulfilled his Law of Thelema: Do What Thou Wilt. He did what he preached, and I must say Sutin shows the pathetic ending of a life lived by someone who did everything for himself. Crowley had everything most people dream about: endless sex (with both countless women and men), drugs, travel, adventure...you name it, he did it. Yet how did his life end? Bankrupt. Lonely. Strung out. I suppose Crowley could be the poster child for why atheism and \\"live for the gusto because you only go around once\\" occultism just doesn't work, regardless of your outlook on God and religion. <br /> <br />Overall, the book was straightforward as it chronologically covers the life of the Beast. In many places, however, the book drags, with perhaps too many exact details of names, places, and events. (For example, dozens and dozens of people whom Crowley has sexual relationships are named; in fact, I wouldn't be surprised if the list topped 100!) The book contains more than 400 pages, and the amount of detail made it feel in some places like you were stuck in a quagmire with no chance of freedom. But, those were the places where I skimmed until I came to something more interesting. I suppose some would consider so many exact details to be a positive trait, but for me, there were too many places where I yawned. I think the book could have been half the size if excessive details had been condensed. <br /> <br />Overall, if you want a look at Crowley, Sutin must be considered the authority. If you want to look closer at how not to live, this book is recommended.	2005-01-30
US	50079159	R12ABI3E2L8JVQ	1581345615	360495942	I Don't Have Enough Faith to Be an Atheist	Books	5	19	28	N	Y	Provides solid evidence for the case of Christianity	Utilizing much of the information already published by the prolific Norman Geisler, both Geisler and Turek give a straightforward presentation that will be appreciated by the evangelical Christian who hopes to show theism's solid case. As the book's title cleverly states, the authors clearly show how atheism is a positive belief in the idea that there is no God, which requires faith because atheists cannot empirically prove that there is NO God. The 12-point syllogism that they use--which is generally utilized in Geisler's \\"When Skeptics Ask\\" and \\"Encyclopedia of Apologetics\\"--is clear and logical. It's the organized way to explain one's faith to someone who is either a skeptic or atheist. There were a couple of places where I think they could have toned down their opinion on peripheral issues (i.e. the overemphasis on man choosing God, as especially detailed in the last chapter) because it's not worth going off on a tangent and diverting the real issues. But overall, the book is exemplary in its job of helping a Christian better understand his or her own faith (as so commanded by 1 Peter 3:15-16). I recommend that faithful believers read a book like this so that they might be light and salt in a world so desperate for truth. \\"I Don't Have Enough Faith to be an Atheist\\" would be an excellent start.	2005-01-30
US	50079159	R2QEVOHBD5MFDQ	0736913556	32008103	Becoming Gods: A Closer Look at 21st-Century Mormonism	Books	5	32	45	N	Y	Good overview on Mormonism	In what appears to be a sequel to his well-researched book \\"One Nation Under Gods,\\" Richard Abanes provides \\"a closer look at 21st-century Mormonism.\\" And overall, he is successful, dealing with such issues as Joseph Smith, God, and polygamy. The issue is, how do Mormons think today (or, at least, how are they taught by their LDS Church leaders), and Abanes provides abundant documentation to show that this material is more than just his personal opinion. I found it interesting that he included a short chapter in the appendix by Mormon apologist Dr. Daniel C. Peterson titled \\"Why I am a Mormon.\\" I am surprised Dr. Peterson would write what amounted to a page and a half (of a 460+-page book) about why Mormonism is, for him, \\"inexpressibly good.\\" Anybody reading the parts before the appendix would certainly not be convinced by Peterson's limited words dealing with his personal testimony that Mormonism is good, especially given the detail that Abanes provided to show how, no, there are too many issues to say this is a true religion. Perhaps this could have led to a \\"Mormon and Evangelical in Conversation\\" type of book, though we've already been there and done that.<br /><br />Although Mormons may not like Abanes' analysis, there is no arguing with his facts. I think he did a very thorough job reporting the differences, making it very clear what Mormonism teaches and showing \\"Evangelical Thoughts\\" (in subtitles) to counter the doctrine(s). My only complaint with the book is that the endnotes are copious--in fact, maybe too copious, taking up a full quarter of the entire book (125+ pages!). Some of the material, I felt, would have been better placed in the regular text. I also wish publishers would get over their apparent fear of scaring readers by feeling they have to use endnotes rather than footnotes. I like to see the information readily at hand, but having them in the back requires a lot of work. Every paragraph seems to have an endnote, and I too often would lose my place, either with the regular text or the endnotes. I just wish it could be placed at the bottom of each page, allowing a reader to either skip them or, if they wanted, look at it and see what else is available. Abanes gets information from a wide variety of sources, and I think these nuggets should not be hidden.<br /><br />Overall, I recommend Becoming Gods for both the layperson and scholar.my place, either with the regular text or the endnotes. I just wish it could be placed at the bottom of each page, allowing a reader to either skip them or, if they wanted, look at it and see what else is available. Abanes gets information from a wide variety of sources, and I think these nuggets should not be hidden. <br /> <br />Overall, I recommend Becoming Gods for both the layperson and scholar.	2005-01-05
US	50079159	R3CFK4YXUWQLC	0072257415	658304723	Keep Your Kids Safe on the Internet	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Good crash course on the Internet for beginners	As a new parent, author Simon Johnson realized how the Internet--though a wonderful and almost essential tool in the 21st century--poses great danger to children. He thus wrote this book to warn many innocent (or just plain old \\"ignorant\\"--my words) parents about their possible blindness to the riskiness of the Internet. And \\"Keep Your Kids Safe\\" does a good job providing basic information that even the most simple-minded person can understand.  <br /> <br />Among other things, Johnson rates virus and firewall programs as he explains the importance of computer software. However, parents need to keep in mind that the Internet will never be completely safe, espeically since our children can quickly learn how to outbamboozle (my word) their parents. This means that mom and dad need to be as informed as they possibly can about cyber-space reality and hopefully avoid silly mistakes.  <br /> <br />I do like Johnson's writing style, which doesn't make the reader feel stupid but also doesn't talk over one's head. He makes plenty of references to Austrailia, where he is from, but the book should be also owned by every American parent. The problem of predators and pornography will not go away in this lifetime. I would not want your family to be as affected as mine, as I have a direct relative who is spending hard time in prison for his actions on the Internet. Thus, it's vital that we take the bull by the horns and quit acting like the proverbial ostrich with his head stuck in the sand! (Doesn't this bird live in Austrailia?) Again, I recommend that all non-computer literate parents buy this and read it before it's too late for their loved ones.	2004-11-27
US	50079159	R1JVTF4Z0LUPMK	0195281365	891940074	The Contemporary Parallel New Testament: 8 Translations: King James, New American Standard, New Century, Contemporary English, New International, New Living, New King James, The Message	Books	5	11	12	N	Y	Makes reading the NT much easier	Most of us are used to using only one Bible translation. After all, it would be laborious to carry more than one book to our meetins. And most of the time, one translation is just fine. But there can be differences in the translations that, if I have access to it, it might make a passage much clearer. That's why I recommend this book. I enjoy the NIV, but sometimes it's beneficial to see how the more literal NASB puts it. I also enjoy the NLT. But having memorized many verses in the old KJV, it's nice to check up here and see this too. Overall, I think every Christian should have this as part of his/her Bible study library.	2004-11-12
US	50079159	R2RJ3N2TIEYM3R	0801026024	478857705	Christianity at the Religious Roundtable: Evangelicalism in Conversation with Hinduism, Buddhism, and Islam	Books	4	14	16	N	N	A slow read, but overall worthwhile	Tennent does something admirable, that is, he goes to the table for a discussion with Hindus, Buddhists, and Muslims. The result is an interesting interreligious dialogue that is done from the evangelical Christian perspective. And overall, he does a good job, bringing to light many of the differences that make Christianity different from other world faiths. I used this text in a seminary world religions class, and though it was the students' least favorite, it offered a valuable contribution. I appreciate the kindness that Tennent showed to his made-up responders. He could have been much tougher, but he was very gentle in how he answered. I also thought he did a good job staying away from straw man arguments, as \\"dialogue\\" without having real people to do the dialoguing with can often invite logical fallacy. Having done much study on these religions, I must say that he was, for the most part, very accurate with the assessments. (I wonder how difficult it would be to get real people to respond and make it a true dialogue.) Finally, his two chapters on Islam were his best work. Truly this was quality material and should be read by anyone hoping to dialogue with the Islamic mindset. So, despite slow reading at times because of the advanced material (the Hindu section was very difficult), I think every Evangelical who wants to better understand the different religions should pick up this book.	2004-08-18
US	50079159	RR1WSIXWBMW1S	066422475X	634227740	World Religions in America: An Introduction (3rd Edition)	Books	5	10	13	N	N	A good look at world religions from a U.S. perspective	Anyone who wants to better understand world religions as they are practiced in America needs this book. So often religions are practiced differently from country to country, and I think this is especially true when it comes to America. We have a way of liberalizing the religions, so that when we travel abroad, we can be often amazed at the difference in styles and beliefs. Neusner takes writers from different points of view and allows them to give a quick history/background and sociological analysis of how the religions look here. (Don't expect these chapters--which usually are approx. 20 pages--to be the best overview of any of the religions. Choose another book for this purpose.) Sometimes their opinion is outright ridiculous. I'm still amazed at John Esposito's comment on page 173 that \\"Muslims worship the same God who is revered by Christians and Jews\\" as I know of no Christian, Jew, or Muslim for that matter who would agree--Trinity, anyone? But except for some comments like this--and there's more than one--the book does a good job with both world religions as well as the 19th century American religious movements like JWs, Mormons, and Christian Science. Overall, a very worthwhile book that ought to be studied by anyone interested in how religions are practiced.	2004-08-18
US	50079159	RDSC24U303GX9	089526126X	359793874	Speaker: Lessons from Forty Years in Coaching and Politics	Books	5	10	12	N	N	Comes across as a real person, not just a politician	Denny Hastert is not a name most people would recognize in the world of politics. And he says that's the way he likes it. We had a chance to meet Speaker Hastert at the Reagan Library, and though we didn't get a chance to speak, he was extremely cordial. His book is a quick read--despite its 300 pages, I read it in just two nights--and his story is worthwhile. I appreciate the fact that he has not forgotten his roots, and I was amazed that his wife continued her teaching career despite her husband's rise to power. The Speaker's remembrance of his teaching and coaching career--he even mentions his wrestling team's state championship in 1976 on the book's dedication page--make it clear that politics was not what he ever intended to make a career in. In fact, this was a man who not only coached and taught but drove a school bus, for Pete's sake!  <br /> <br />As a private school educator myself, I felt a special kinship to him; now that I know him better, I feel I will better understand the situation he faces in the dog-eat-dog political world of Washington, D.C. One final comment. If nothing else, this book confirmed to me that our national political system is filled with holes, especially in the colloboration between the two main parties. The tricks played by the parties--and I have to say, most of the blame appears to lie at the feet of the Democrats--just to make the other side look bad is, in reality, bad for America. What can we do? Vote those who are the rascals out and get some work done. Let's cooperate, people, and quit with the individual agendas that single out special interests.	2004-08-17
US	50079159	RDL1N8LQD54	0312289626	375754553	What Is Mormonism All About?: Answers to the 150 Most Commonly Asked Questions about The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints	Books	1	13	33	N	Y	Inadequate in too many areas	Johanson acknowledges the fact that Mormonism has a number of critics, yet he believes that this religion is true. He writes on page 8, ?There are those who are hostile to the Mormon Church, who claim that Mormons worship Joseph Smith. [straw man logical fallacy: he should name just one person  who claims this] This is not so. There are those who claim that Mormons worship Mormon. [again, name somebody] This is not so. There are those who claim that Mormons do not worship Jesus Christ and therefore are not Christians. This is certainly not so, as Mormons are committed, dedicated Christians who see themselves as having been ?born again? at Baptism, and as taking upon themselves the name of Jesus Christ, and who believe that there is no other way to salvation except through the grace and Atonement, sacrifice and Resurrection of the Lord Jesus Christ.? <br /> <br />Despite Johanson?s supposed background in Presbyterianism, Congregationalism, and Methodism, his book is highly disappointing. First of all, his answers to many of the questions are short and don?t really scratch below the surface. It appears that he makes a conscientious effort to not cite additional resources, rarely quoting from anything except an occasional biblical or other Standard Works passage.  (I doubt that there are more than two dozen references in its 226 pages.) <br /> <br />One example of his short, inadequate answers appears on page 83 as he responds to a question on Mormon archaeology. It is a good question and deserves a thoughtful response. Instead, Johanson offers less than a hundred words insinuating that there have been plenty of archeological finds in South America, Persia, and the Middle East that somehow support the Book of Mormon. Yet he does not provide a shred of evidence. Earlier, however, he had said that when it comes to Book of Mormon archaeology, ?Mormons believe that God will intentionally withhold such hard evidence from mankind, just to test (or ?prove?) their faith.? (p.23) Can such a claim really be taken seriously?  <br /> <br />When responding to the question ?What?s the difference between Protestant denominations and the Mormons?? Johanson refers to a common Mormon idea that the Bible was changed sometime in the Middle Ages and somehow ?practices that were not the original practices? were introduced (p. 28). Because the Bible is incomplete and improperly edited, he recommends the Book of Mormon ?to clarify some of the more confusing or incomplete passages from the Bible.? (p. 12) Again, he doesn?t provide anything more than personal opinion to support his claims. This is a trait common throughout the book.  <br /> <br />Johanson often uses ?doublespeak? in his answers. This is common with many Mormons who apparently hope that those who are not LDS?especially evangelical Christians?may casually gloss over and minimize differences. His goal, it is clear, is to have the reader think that Mormonism is synonymous with Christianity.  <br /> <br />Finally, Johanson often uses pejorative adjectives to describe those who dare make the audacious claim that Mormonism is not a Christian religion. One overused moniker is ?anti-Mormon,? a word that must have been utilized by Johanson in excess of a hundred times throughout the book?s pages. For example, in his response to the question ?Do Mormons ever participate in Bible study groups?? he says that while Mormons study the Bible, ?Mormons would usually be unwelcome if fundamentalists, evangelicals, or anti-Mormons were also in the group.? (p. 49) In other word, if you are not ecumenical, then?take your pick?you must be a narrow-minded fundamentalist, evangelical, or anti-Mormon (or maybe you?re all three!) who discriminates against LDS ?Christians.?  <br /> <br />He raises the war flag when it comes to rhetoric about those he feels are ?angry and hostile toward Mormons? and ?fundamentalist Christian groups (including some Southern Baptists and other evangelical groups) that are quite hostiletoward Mormons.? He concludes this section by insinuating their miscommunication is on purpose, saying, ?Anti-Mormons are also quite quick to (intentionally?) misinterpret and miscommunicate many of the simple beliefs that Mormons hold, by trying to claim that Mormons believe in the Book of Mormon and not the Holy Bible; that Mormons believe Joseph Smith was someone to worship instead of Jesus Christ; and other such misrepresentations.?  <br /> <br />There are, he claims on page 35, few sincere Christians. He writes that ?many people visit a few churches and decide which to attend, based on who else is there, or if they like the minister, or if the sermons are good (or short), or if they would like to join the choir, or what time of day the Sunday services are held, and so on, and that?s the basis of their decision. Those approaches are not true for Mormons.?  <br /> <br />The Mormon Church, he adds, ?has a much more comprehensive and defined set of doctrines than do most Christian denominations.? Nothing like setting the stage to make non-LDS churchgoers look superficial and even sinful. Even Christian bookstores are part of the conspiracy against Mormons because, on page 11, he criticizes them for not carrying Mormon ?scholarly? works ?for they view them as false and un-Christian. The only Mormon-related materials in most Christian bookstores are anti-Mormon materials.? The question is, how many evangelical Christian books do the Deseret and Seagull bookstores carry? <br /> <br />Overall, I cannot recommend this book. It does not offer any adequate answers to the 150 questions posed. I would suggest Johanson go back to the drawing board, eliminate his use of logical fallacies, and do a little research that would involve more than just his mere opinion. Until he does this, his book wastes both paper and, if read, the reader?s time.   <br />	2004-07-21
US	50079159	R2JY6CISCJ1OUN	1852402792	614234131	Right Answers for Wrong Beliefs: A Collection of Outlines, Charts, Helps and Notes on a Selection of Major Cults and How to Witness to Them	Books	5	8	9	N	Y	A good overview on Christian doctrine and the cults	Matt's ministry, [...] is excellent, and so is this book. Matt is very clear in presenting basic details on basic biblical truths, the cults, and how to witness. You might know very little about a particular group and understand the basics after reading through the section on it. I recommend Matt and his ministry.	2004-07-20
US	50079159	R2IVXYN4YAPPPD	0810004879	848109880	Speaking the Truth in Love to Mormons	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Great overview on the LDS religion	There are any number of books that cover the religion of Mormonism, but Cares' is one of the best. He deals with pertinent issues that don't fly over the average layperson's head. In addition he provides specific references that anyone can write into their Bibles (along with other LDS scriptures) in order to become efficient in sharing one's faith. Cares' attitude of \\"sharing in love\\" is also appreciated, as it is evident that he has no bone to pick or desires an \\"anti-Mormon\\" label. I have only two minor complaints. 1) There are a number of grammatical/ spelling/ layout errors that could easily be cleaned up with a good editor/ proofreader. 2) The book doesn't appear to be on a publisher's current list...this is a timeless piece that somebody ought to pick up. For Christians hoping to have a healthy dialogue with their LDS friends and neighbors, I suggest this as one of the books you purchase.	2004-07-08
US	50079159	RLNMMFBU9O60B	0736914390	628934357	The Truth Behind the Da Vinci Code: A Challenging Response to the Bestselling Novel	Books	5	21	39	N	Y	Straightforward, just-the-facts-m'aam	In less than 100 pages, Abanes is able to shed light on the truth behind the popular Dan Brown Da Vinci Code. The writing is very organinzed and is simple enough for the average layperson. It could be read in less than a couple of hours if someone wanted to really pay attention. Brown is off in a number of areas, and any Christian who wants to rest assured that his or her Bible is trustworthy ought to consider what Abanes has done here. Every Christian needs to be informed of his/her own faith, and then be ready to have a defense for anyone who attempts to contradict truth (1 Peter 3:15-16). This book, I believe, will be adequate for most people to answer Brown's heretical charges.	2004-07-08
US	50079159	RO8MIA8TG36DJ	0736914390	628934357	The Truth Behind the Da Vinci Code: A Challenging Response to the Bestselling Novel	Books	5	89	124	N	Y	Concise critique of the Code	There probably is not any shorter of a critique about the Da Vinci Code that packs as much information than what Abanes has produced. He has a sharp mind and a systematic approach showing how Dan Brown is anything but historical in his approach. This is recommended for those who don't want an extended version but just want to know, why is the Code pure fiction. He has also made this book easy to skim, and for those with only an hour or two to devote to the subject, there is an ability to get the basic information in an easy manner. Christians need to be informed about the truth, especially when something like Brown's work takes off as it has and makes it appear that Jesus is not really the person as described in the pages of the Gospels.	2004-06-07
US	50079159	R2I34U5JNCYZH9	0764228382	349315400	Illustrated Guide to World Religions, The	Books	5	28	32	N	N	Pictorially, graphically, information-wise a great primer	Although the information in this book is the same as what is found in his 1996 edition \\"The Compact Guide to World Religions,\\" Dean Halverson does a beautiful job putting this work together. First, it is easy to read and follow. In fact, any layperson should have no trouble with the basics of each of the major religions. In addition, the pictures and charts alone are well worth the inexpensive price of this hardcover book. Finally, the valuable chapters on \\"Is Jesus the Only Way to God?\\" and \\"How can we know the Bible is the Word of God?\\" make this a must-have in one's library. I don't know of any other resource (from a Christian perspective) that provides the fundamentals of a particular world religion in a context so easy to understand. I teach a world religions course, and it is the first book (out of three texts) that I require my students to purchase.	2004-05-24
US	50079159	RJTWXDYQE47IL	078640826X	449559716	Joseph Smith and the Origins of the Book of Mormon (2nd Edition)	Books	5	37	55	N	N	Great background to Smith and his golden book	David Persuitte, a technical writer from Virginia, wrote the first edition of this book in 1985. Now, a decade and a half later, Persuitte has added many more facts in this, the 325-page second edition. This is extremely worthwhile reading for any serious student of Joseph Smith and the religion he founded in 1830. <br />Persuitte's premise is that Smith had few original bones in his body. Of course, it is obvious that Smith knew how to plagiarize because about a fifth of the Book of Mormon is copied straight out of the King James Version Bible, including the errors made by the English translators. Anyone who is honest would have to admit that Smith really didn't translate these words from the Book of Mormon \\"plates.\\" But Persuitte believes that Smith also stole his ideas from the sources available to him in his day, especially from Vermont minister Ethan Smith's View of the Hebrews (first published in 1823), which had been published only a few years before. Using numerous side-by-side comparisons throughout much of the book and tying in other 19th century works and ideas, Persuitte is able to write, \\"Considered as a whole, this material makes it quite clear that The Book of Mormon was a product of the early nineteenth century rather than being a 'history' of ancient America\\" (p. 3).<br />All in all, this is a book fully worthy of reading and marking up before putting it back on the shelf for future reference. Persuitte has done a valuable service for all who want to show that Joseph Smith's story was not his own.	2004-05-13
US	50079159	R2VWD66JILNQ96	0028644913	459546310	The Complete Idiot's Guide to Understanding Mormonism	Books	1	6	27	N	N	Biased and full of faulty information	I generally assume that \\"Dummy\\" and \\"Idiot\\" books are written objectively. I would have never imagined, though, that one would be written as an apologetic for a particular religion as this book appears to be. The author, who is a Mormon, does his best to make Mormonism look like just another Christian denomination. (One place he says it's a misnomer to say that Mormons are not Christians. Yet he never explains which \\"Christian\\" doctrines that Mormons believe.) This book might be enjoyed by Mormons who think that it supports their faith and possibly could lead the uneducated into inviting Mormon missionaries to their homes. But to those who have studied this religion, it is nothing more than a polemic attempting to make Mormonism look mainstream when, in fact, it isn't.	2004-05-12
US	50079159	R3RN1EJIE3G3KQ	0785260463	856576592	Breaking the Da Vinci Code: Answering the Questions Everybody's Asking	Books	5	4	8	N	N	Exposes the emperor	It's amazing to me how The Da Vinci Code has swept across America to confuse so many people. Apparently Dan Brown thinks that his information supersedes all of the historical research that clearly denies his incredible theories. Thanks to the media, his out-there theories have somehow become quasi-factual. In Breaking the Code, Bock--a New Testament theologian--definitively exposes Dan Brown for what he really is: naked with nothing to cover up his backside. There are so many readers, though, who are so ignorant on accurate ancient history and the truth that they are becoming confused about the Bible and whether or not Christianity is true. My advice is to pick up Bock's book and catch yourself up with the facts. Then you will be able to see what The Da Vinci Code is all about: a fictional work with no resemblance to truth.	2004-05-03
US	50079159	R2D3W415NAJMZH	080102451X	696441166	Studying the Historical Jesus: A Guide to Sources and Methods	Books	5	6	7	N	Y	Clear presentation on the historicity of Jesus	Darrell Bock does exactly what his book's subtitle promises: \\"A guide to sources and methods.\\" In the first part, Bock systematically takes a look at the life of Jesus, considering the historical evidence beyond biblical sources; provides a basic chronology to the life of Jesus; and overviews the cultural background of Jesus. The second part provides methods for studying Jesus. This section is a must for students of Christ who have never heard of the different \\"criticisms\\" (i.e. source, form, redaction, tradition, etc.). It may sound so \\"negative,\\" but really these issues need to be understood if one truly hopes to understand the person of Jesus Christ. I especially liked Bock's overview of source criticism and the different possibilities of which gospel came first. It was, I thought, very clear even though the issue is quite complicated.	2004-05-03
US	50079159	R13HV9U7GVLQKT	1581346085	481892657	The Passion of Jesus Christ: Fifty Reasons Why He Came to Die	Books	5	10	12	N	N	To the point and accurate	In light of the popularity of Mel Gibson's \\"Passion of the Christ,\\" this is a good theological book with 2-page chapters that can be used as a backdrop showing the necessity of Christ's death (and resurrection). Using scripture left and right, Piper comes up with succinct points that clearly show how and why the horrible crucifixion was necessary. It can be utilized as a devotional, as it's difficult (read: tedious) to put six or seven of these chapters together. Piper made this book available to churches at an extremely low cost and is donating the proceeds, which is quite admirable as well. (In other words, he's not piggybacking on Gibson's movie all the way to the bank.) Overall, I like the read and am glad to recommend it.	2004-04-29
US	50079159	R2JWOOF65JGF64	1581346085	481892657	The Passion of Jesus Christ: Fifty Reasons Why He Came to Die	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Short and sweet	In light of the popularity of Mel Gibson's \\"Passion of the Christ,\\" this is a good theological book with 2-page chapters that can be used as a backdrop showing the necessity of Christ's death (and resurrection). Using scripture left and right, Piper comes up with succinct points that clearly show how and why the horrible crucifixion was necessary. It can be utilized as a devotional, as it's difficult (read: tedious) to put six or seven of these chapters together. Piper made this book available to churches at an extremely low cost and is donating the proceeds, which is quite admirable as well. (In other words, he's not piggybacking on Gibson's movie all the way to the bank.) Overall, I like the read and am glad to recommend it.	2004-04-26
US	50079159	R32WCIESOLU33I	080102451X	696441166	Studying the Historical Jesus: A Guide to Sources and Methods	Books	5	0	0	N	Y	Straightforward (yet scholarly) reading on the real Jesus	Darrell Bock does exactly what his book's subtitle promises: \\"A guide to sources and methods.\\" In the first part, Bock systematically takes a look at the life of Jesus, considering the historical evidence beyond biblical sources; provides a basic chronology to the life of Jesus; and overviews the cultural background of Jesus. The second part provides methods for studying Jesus. This section is a must for students of Christ who have never heard of the different \\"criticisms\\" (i.e. source, form, redaction, tradition, etc.). It may sound so \\"negative,\\" but really these issues need to be understood if one truly hopes to understand the person of Jesus Christ. I especially liked Bock's overview of source criticism and the different possibilities of which gospel came first. It was, I thought, very clear even though the issue is quite complicated. (...)	2004-04-25
US	50079159	R23MZUBU2ZQX7E	1576737160	482734531	The Ragamuffin Gospel	Books	2	159	322	N	N	Not a ragamuffin fan...sorry	I had a good friend give me this book for Christmas, so I decided to read it based on his recommendation. Unfortunately, I'm going to go against the flow and say that I'm missing what many--including Rich Mullins, Michael Card, and others--are raving about. <br />First, I'm a little taken aback by the \\"Ragamuffin\\" label. The gospel is not for \\"ragamuffins\\" but for sinners who have desperately missed the mark. I know Manning probably didn't mean it, but it feels like there is a minimization of the idea that we are lost and cannot find the way on our own. Ragamuffin seems so watered down; the real impact seems to have been lost. <br />I also disagree with some things said by Manning. For instance, on page 31 he tells the story of how the public sinner \\"was excommunicated and forbidden entry to the church. He took his woes to God. 'They won't let me in Lord because I am a sinner.' What are you complaining about?' God said. 'They won't let me in either.'\\" Don't get me wrong, it's a cute story, but I'm not sure how biblical this idea is. I do not see the idea of repentance in this man's attitude. It's almost as if a relationship with God that is blessed by the church is somehow a God-given right despite one's courting of sin. Paul says in 1 Corinthians 5 to expel the brother who was willfully sinning. I don't see any cute games that Paul (or Jesus, for that matter) played. I am not saying that sinners should refrain from going to church. Obviously, we are all sinners! The key is, do we recognize this and thus move forward in a repentant attitude? He alludes to this idea on page 103, which is a good thing. Although I might be accused of reading Manning out of context, this section irrituated me.<br />Manning's Arminianism shines throughout the book, with some mistaken idea that somehow all people were meant to be saved (see page 43). He says on page 46 \\"there is no one to whom God denies it.\\" The question is, what is \\"it\\"? It appears it's grace. Is Manning a Universalist,somehow thinking that all people go to heaven based on a misunderstanding of 1 Timothy 2:4? His lack of clarity makes it hard to understand what exactly his point really is.<br />Also, please don't accuse me of antinomianism, but I don't believe the author properly stresses the importance of good works. Now, I work with a countercult ministry, so I understand the possibility of misunderstanding grace and thining we are saved by works. At the same time, the Bible is very clear that good works are vital in the Sanctification process. We are saved by grace unto good works (Ephesians 2:10; James 2:14-26). The Christian church today really seems to miss this message, and unfortunately, the emphasis of too much grace is equally as deterimental as the cults' emphasis of too much works. I'm going to say that I don't believe the balance is evident throughout this work. <br />Overall, I do not recommend this book. If there is one other book that I would recommend in its place, throughout my reading of The Ragamuffin Gospel, I kept thinking of Dietrich Bonhoeffer's The Cost of Discipleship. And I'll leave it at that.	2004-02-24
US	50079159	R3PSQYXK75QN2Q	0385509510	418900469	Under the Banner of Heaven: A Story of Violent Faith	Books	5	42	49	N	Y	Polygamy, Fundamentalists, and the history of the west	Well-known author Jon Krakauer (Into Thin Air, Into the Wild) originally wanted to write a book titled History and Belief that would focus \\"on the uneasy, highly charged relationship between the LDS Church and its past.\\" In this not-yet-written book, he planned to see \\"how does a critical mind reconcile scientific and historical truth with religious doctrine? How does one sustain belief when confronted with facts that appear to refute it?\\"<br />Instead of writing this book, though, Krakauer's research led him to write about the dual July 24, 1984 murders committed by the infamous Lafferty brothers (Ron and Dan) in American Fork, Utah. The story told in Under the Banner of Heaven (paperback comes out July 2004) is both intriguing and revealing. In fact, Krakauer makes it very evident that the Laffertys not only held fast to Mormon fundamentalism and a deep-seeded belief in polygamy, but they were also closely aligned with the thinking of numerous early Mormon leaders, especially Joseph Smith and Brigham Young, the first two LDS prophets. <br />Krakauer opens the book by giving background information on the night when the actual murders that occurred. Ron and Dan brutally ambushed their younger brother Allan's infant daughter and his wife, Brenda, whom they blamed for causing Ron's wife to leave for Florida. The murders are not exactly described until the latter part of the book, but it should be understood that graphic details are given...and it's not a pretty sight. <br />However, this is more than just a tale centering on the Laffertys. Throughout the book, as the account is unfurled describing how the Laffertys got to the point of cold-blooded murder and thinking their actions were God-ordained, Krakauer weaves in the basic history of the LDS Church, starting with LDS founder Joseph Smith in chapter 5. Events such as Carthage, Mountain Meadow (he points out that only later was it called \\"Meadows\\"), and the Manifesto are detailed. <br />Krakauer intersperses the historical aspects of Mormonism with the different interpretations of this religion as explained by numerous leaders. Since many fundamentalists place special emphasis on polygamy, Krakauer highlights the more well-known polygamous individuals such as LeRoy Johnson, Brian David Mitchell (who kidnapped Elizabeth Smart), Tom Green, and the LeBarons. Displayed are the many problems associated with polygamy including incest, spousal abuse, septuagenarians marrying teenagers, and the stealing from the government.<br />Although the general history is accurate and can be easily supported, this book is not meant to be a historical work. In fact, Krakauer utilizes other researchers such as Fawn Brodie (No Man Knows My History), Will Bagley (Blood of the Prophets), and D. Michael Quinn. Thus, anyone hoping for new historical nuggets may be disappointed (though I did learn a few new things). Truly this book is tailor-made for the person who doesn't have a deep understanding of Mormonism's roots. <br />One thing that Krakauer does not provide is the in-text citations of his sources. Instead, he merely uses asterisks and provides the footnoted information at the bottom of the page. No resource/page number addresses are provided, meaning that the reader has to take the author's word for it. While there may be a place for these kinds of books, this type of documentation drives researchers who thrive on specific source/page information crazy. At the same time, Krakauer makes some very astute observations that show how he understands the many inconsistencies in Joseph Smith's philosophical system.<br />Under the Banner of Heaven, which hit the presses in July 2003, has infuriated many Mormons who consider this tome as an affront to their faith. After all, how dare the author insinuate that these Mormon Fundamentalists are even faintly related to the only true church on earth, the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints! Yet this thinking is quite flawed. As the author insinuates,if Smith and Young were to return to the earth today, certainly they would recognize the Fundamentalist churches as being more authentic than the LDS Church and its structure. Why should we think so poorly of these modern-day polygamists when their attitude is certainly shared by those who guided the church in the early years?<br />He has a point, though Mormons have flooded the Internet with their ranting protests. For instance, many of the more than 300+ reviews of this book on Amazon.com are LDS critics complaining that Krakauer is somehow anti-Mormon and therefore must have a vendetta against the Church. Thus, many of these reviewers give the book a \\"one star\\" rating and display their ignorance with archaic reviews, which clearly show they never read the book. This proves that there are many Mormons who are more concerned with their religion's public relations image rather than history or, egad, the truth. While Krakauer is an agnostic/atheist and is certainly no friend to Christianity, I believe that he holds no bigoted bent against the LDS Church. <br />Overall, I recommend this book, especially for those who would like to better understand the polygamist mindset that can be found throughout the western United States. Since I personally know polygamists from Utah, I commend Krakauer for accurately displaying the mentality that characterizes many of these sincere folk (i.e. \\"it's us against the world\\"). The only caution I would give is that the book is quite graphic when it comes to the description of the murders and the language used by the Lafferty boys. <br />Finally, though I certainly disagree with Krakauer on theology, I would like to encourage Krakauer to pursue the book he originally set out to write. Of course, Mormons will once again color him with that dirty \\"anti-Mormon\\" label, but I for one would be an interested observer should he ever complete that book.<br />And one last thing. More than 30 people have given this review negative ratings. I'm thinking this is so because you disagree with my point of view. However, you should not rate books based on whether or not you agree with the reviewer. Did I provide information that helped you decide whether or not you ought to buy this book? I think I have. Please be fair in your feedback...thanks.	2004-01-16
US	50079159	R3OIDVCALJ15PA	156085085X	370702957	In Sacred Loneliness: The Plural Wives of Joseph Smith	Books	5	64	89	N	Y	The plain truth about Smith's polygamous ways	Todd Compton, who has a Ph.D. from UCLA in classics, has outdone himself with this book. Written from a factual perspective while incorporating the individual story of each woman who married the Mormon prophet Joseph Smith, this book is interesting reading for Mormon or nonMormon alike. Although Latter-day Saint Mormons have not officially practiced polygamy since 1890 (still, many who belong to splinter groups and follow Smith continue its practive even today), having relations with more than one woman is a foundational piece upon which the Mormon Church was built.<br />Although Compton is more conservative than others when it comes to how many wives Smith had--he says 33 while others count more than 50--the author shows that these women married Smith in secret ceremonies in order to keep his wife Emma from finding out. Smith also convinced them to have his children, oftentimes while they were married to their original husbands. (This is better classified as polyandry rather than polygamy.) In essence, Smith had relations with each of his wives at his personal convenience. Generally these women did not live with him, and when they did, they did not live openly as wives but rather as helpers around his home. It was Brigham Young who first flaunted his polygamous ways. So, in all actuality, they were merely Smith's play toys in the name of God, allowing him to have a variety of sexual partners with little responsibility for his actions. His first plural wife, Fanny Alger, was only 14 when he (in his late 20s) married her in 1833, well before the \\"revelation\\" on polygamy that he received in the early 1840s.<br />Most of Smith's marriages took place in Nauvoo, ILL, and after he was martyred in 1844, the lives of these women took many different directions, which Compton details through diaries and historical records. Ranging in age from 14 to 54, these women were \\"colorful, tragic figures,\\" as Compton puts it. The vast majority of these women are painted in lonely colors. All in all, I would say that I did not read one of Compton's stories that made me feel like polygamy helped any particular wife reach her potential. Instead, I only saw sadness and despair regarding the effects of polygamy. Perhaps this is why many of his wives later campaigned against polygamy in their later years.<br />I recommend \\"Sacred Loneliness\\" for those readers who are interested in the real story of Joseph Smith's wives and the reality of their many hardships. Indeed Smith's actions should never be considered a fun little innocent hobby. Instead, it served as nothing more than benefitting Joseph Smith.rs. All in all, I would say that I did not read one of Compton's stories that made me feel like polygamy helped any particular wife reach her potential. Instead, I only saw sadness and despair regarding the effects of polygamy. Perhaps this is why many of his wives later campaigned against polygamy in their later years.<br />I recommend \\"Sacred Loneliness\\" for those readers who are interested in the real story of Joseph Smith's wives and the reality of their many hardships. Indeed Smith's actions should never be considered a fun little innocent hobby. Instead, it served as nothing more than benefitting Joseph Smith.	2003-08-23
US	50079159	RJV85EZGJ0DSS	0310246857	141850394	Challenge of Bible Translation, The	Books	4	34	35	N	Y	In honor of the eminent Dr. Youngblood	I have been one of numerous people influenced by the teaching ministry of Dr. Ronald Youngblood, a man whom I call both a gentleman and a scholar. This book is comprised of 21 essays that were dedicated to Dr. Youngblood's honor. Personally I have been taught by several of the contributors(James Smith, Mark Strauss, Walter Wessel). Thus, for me, reading through this compilation was a delight because of my familiarity with these people during my time in the mid-1980s/early 1990s at Bethel Seminary San Diego. Dr. Youngblood's mastery in the classroom as well as his style (nobody has a more dry sense of humor, as any student of his can attest) and scholarship are duly noted in these pages. <br />As far as this book's collection of essays goes, most of the topics are only going to interest the biblical scholars. If you're not familiar with the ancient languages and other technical writing, the vast majority of this book will have little impact. Personally, I did not bother reading a quarter of the essays from their beginning to end because the individual content of these particular chapters just did not interest me.<br />However, this is not to say that there are not some jewels here. In fact, let me briefly mention four of my favorite essays. First, chapter 3 by D.A. Carson (\\"The limits of functional equivalence in Bible translation--and other limits, too\\") gives a good history of the gender-neutral debate, especially as the Today's New International Version (TNIV) is concerned. This is an informative chapter for those not very familiar with the background of the TNIV controversy, and thus I recommend it.<br />A second essay was the book's next chapter by Mark Strauss (\\"Current issues in the gender-language debate: A response to Vern Plythress and Wayne Grudem\\"). I liked it because: a) it was cutting edge and not just a rehash of previous work, which a number of these essays were; b) it deals with the current TNIV controversy from the perspective of Dr. Strauss, who does a good job answering his (and the TNIV) critics. Even if you disagree with Dr. Strauss, one must admit that his points are worthy of consideration.<br />Third, I liked Dick France's chapter 7 (\\"The Bible in English: An Overview\\"). Of course, general overviews of the translation of the Bible are a dime a dozen, and some may criticize its inclusion. However, I think that this was one of the most interesting and informative overviews on Bible translation I have ever read.<br />Finally, I appreciated John Stek's chapter 10 (\\"The New International Version: How it Came to Be\\"). This is one of the most detailed histories of the NIV in a short-order format. Based on the faithfulness of God and those (including Dr. Youngblood) who responded to His calling, I believe the process of the NIV translation was quite ethical and completed in a godly fashion. Perhaps this is why God has blessed its use throughout the world.  <br />Each person is different and may find other chapters to be of more interest, but for me, these four essays made the purchase of this book worthwhile. May God continue to bless the work of Dr. Youngblood, and may we continue to work through the texts of scripture provided to us by God Himself.	2003-08-04
US	50079159	R25TZBV81DET53	0060633875	29780906	Just As I Am: The Autobiography of Billy Graham	Books	5	11	15	N	N	The stories behind the greatest evangelist ever	I am one who received Jesus Christ into my heart 31 years ago at the invitation of Billy Graham (on TV, no less). Therefore, I have great admiration for this man of God. There is no doubt in my mind that he has accomplished much for the cause of Christ.<br />I decided to read this book (700+ pages) after Billy came to my hometown of San Diego in the spring of 2003 for his final Southern California appearance. I also recenly saw a play on the life of Ruth Graham, which finally prompted me to pick this book off my shelf and begin to read. The first half of the book was especially interesting to me, as I knew little to nothing about how Billy was able to become the so-called pastor to the presidents. I was fascinated at how he was able to rise so quickly to the point where he could call the White House and get a return phone call from whomever was the president, whether Democrat or Republican. And how he was able to preach the gospel without losing his position of authority was fascinating.<br />To me, the second half of the book reads more like a journal of his many cursades than flowing stories that made up the book's first half. I did enjoy his chapters on each of the presidents, from Truman to Clinton. These were my favorites. One disappointment in his book was how little Billy really talked about his family. He did have one chapter (39) where he admitted to having regrets regarding his family (i.e. not spending enough time with them, neglect due to the ministry, etc.), but I wished that he would have spent more time giving reflections on his five children throughout the book. I suppose I could read Franklin's autobiography to learn more about that child, for instance, but I was hoping to learn more about Billy's perspective about the rebelliousness that took place with Franklin. Perhaps Billy didn't want to get too personal, but I think this could have been a beneficial part to a fairly revealing book. <br />And I would agree with Billy in that he lost out in watching his kids grow up. It seemed every chapter talked about his playing golf with this president (he apparently played a lot of golf) or having tea with that queen, but I am disturbed that his family took second-class status. Still, they all turned out to be fine people, and most of them are involved in the Christian ministry, so it all did work out in the end. It's just that, had I been in his situation and the ministry was going to take such a front seat to my life, I probably would have reconsidered having such a large family in the first place. Since I am involved in Christian ministry myself, I realize how difficult it can be to juggle the ministry with family. I am doing everything in my power, to the best of my ability, to make sure my three girls are not neglected by a father who chose to have them. Perhaps looking at Graham's story will motivate me to be an even better father.<br />One other thing that I have concern with is the fact that Graham desires ecumenical peace so much that the gospel almost seems to be diluted. Don't get me wrong, as I am not a &quot;fundamentalist&quot; by any stretch of the imagination. I just think it can be dangerous to try to not offend anyone that soon you offend noone. By nature the gospel is offensive, and I wish Billy would not have been so willing to be ecumenical when it came to associating himself with those who are clearly not orthodox in their Christian way of thinking. <br />I have a Mormon friend who went to all of the training seminars to become a counselor at our recent &quot;mission&quot; in San Diego. Because my friend did his workbook and attended the meetings, he told me that he received a certificate saying that he was qualified to councel at the mission. Now, I can't verify this, but if merely taking an evangelism course and saying that a person has accepted Jesus into his life (which my friend was able to say, because in his mind he is a Christian), then there is probably something wrong here.<br />One other note. This book was written after certain Nixon tapes came out (where Graham apparently said derogatory things about the Jews). Billy does admit in the book that Nixon secretly taped their conversations. I appreciate Graham's desire to be honest and apologize about something said 30 years ago, but you wonder how a man of the cloth could get himself into such a situation. Billy says he did not remember the conversation, but I feel this is a stain in an otherwise stainless reputation.<br />Despite my complaints, this is a worthwhile look into the life of a godly man and is well worth a read. It is quick reading and can be completed in less time than the 700 pages indicates.	2003-07-07
US	50079159	R10FM02HYSJXCN	0060185163	725298314	God's Secretaries: The Making of the King James Bible	Books	2	11	28	N	Y	Mediocre treatment, a dry read	I picked this book up when I read a positive review in a local newspaper. It sounded like a book that would be very interesting. However, I was wrong. Nicolson's style tends to drag, and when he decided to include major quotes in the exact language from the 17th century--well, I, for one could not understand what most of the quotes were saying without studying each one. Two-thirds of the way through the book, I gave up and didn't finish it, which is very unlike me. Rarely do I quit a book when I have made such an investment of time and money. <br />Now that I've had my appetite whetted on this subject of translating the KJV, I might need to look for other treatments, as I've heard there are some better overviews. So I'm sorry, but I just have to say that I was disappointed in God's Secretaries and am therefore not able to recommend it.	2003-07-07
US	50079159	R2X4WA26AJTFAR	0906540720	875272650	The Passover Plot: A New Interpretation of the Life and Death of Jesus	Books	2	27	66	N	Y	Apparently it's not supposed to be a fictional book	In this book Hugh Schonfield delivers a theory that portrays Jesus as a deceiver who bent the rules in order to fulfill prophecy. According to Schonfield's story, Jesus planned His own resurrection, which was apparently foiled when He was accidentally pierced on the cross by a soldier. However, the disciples--what would a dead Jesus look like anyway? Schonfield asks--wanted so badly to believe in the resurrection that they mistakenly thought they saw Jesus and began what we today call Christianity.<br />Pity the poor Christians today, Schonfield seems to be saying. Here they are, believing in a nonhistorical fairy tale. If his story is correct, then the Christian is truly the most pitied of all people, as Paul says in 1 Corinthians 15:1ff. But if he is wrong, there is a terrible price to pay. Yet I believe that history shows the swoon theory, the wrong tomb theory, or even the spiritual resurrection theory as much more likely possibilities than what Schonfield has to offer. <br />In effect, Schonfield is calling into question the integrity of both Jesus and his disciples. Was Jesus really a deceiver? Was He looking for popularity? If so, then why did He not accept the accolades of the people that He received on Palm Sunday and just become their political ruler? Certainly it could have ended no more tragically than what really took place. Jesus' popularity would have given Him an edge in trying to overthrow the Roman government in the Judean region, and perhaps He could have been more successful than the many other \\"messiahs\\" who, for the most part, were all unsuccessful and eventually lost their lives. But to claim that Jesus was in this for the power or because He Himself was under dillusional thoughts is not very historical at all.<br />Another problem with Schonfield's theory is that there were many events not under Jesus' control for this theory to take place. Here is a man whose very birth was predicted in scripture (Isaiah 7:14; Micah 5:2). What He would say on the cross and other circumstances of His death were also very clearly predicted (Psalm 22, Isaiah 53). His life fulfilled these things. Despite His death and the \\"plot\\" wallowing in shambles, everything is supposed to work out just right? Are we to believe that Thomas really touches Jesus, but this really wasn't Jesus? (John 20:26ff) So why does Thomas take the gospel message to India and die a martyr's death? To make everything work, Thomas and the other disciples must have been complete dolts, which is the only possible way it would have worked. With Jesus out of the picture, there is no way in the world this could have fooled so many different people, including the more than 500 who saw Jesus at one time (1 Cor. 15:1-7). <br />All in all, I believe that a person will have to own a lot of faith in order to believe The Passover Plot. If the author was not serious about his research, it would almost be a fun theory. But Schonfield shows how far off a person can get by reading into history and creating one's own \\"what if\\" theory. To me, believing in the many eyewitness accounts of Jesus' resurrection appearances, the evidence of the power of changed lives because of this resurrection, and a tomb where no body could be found is a much better risk of faith than believing anything Schonfield has to offer. Unless you're curious to see how Schonfield explains his theory, I just don't recommend this book.	2003-06-18
US	50079159	R7QI2R52EQ8L2	080106063X	11526128	Answering Jewish Objections to Jesus: General and Historical Objections, Vol. 1	Books	5	9	16	N	N	Something to use when sharing with Jewish friends	I really don't remember if I have ever seen a book solely dedicated to evangelizing the Jews, but Michael Brown has provided this resource to us. This is the first of his three volumes, with the final volume being released in 2003. (Boy, I sure wish that we could have had the opportunity to buy one large combined volume; it's no fun trying to remember which of the three books where you saw something and then try to reference the point.) I plan on reading the other two volumes as well. Although there were some places where the writing is a little dry and hard to stay focused, overall I appreciated the questions that were raised and how Brown was able to answer them. I like the fact that Brown is a Jewish Christian, so while some of his brethren may not consider him to be a true \\"Jew,\\" I think he probably has more authority than a typical \\"goyyim\\" like me! His sympathy of the Jewish mindset was very much appreciated. Overall, this book is an excellent resource and has found a place on my bookshelf. I will read the other two volumes and utilize Brown's arguments in the years to come.	2003-06-18
US	50079159	R17LA1BIAKLWHM	076790592X	725864791	Tuesdays with Morrie: An Old Man, a Young Man, and Life's Greatest Lesson	Books	5	0	0	N	Y	Watch out so nobody sees you cry	Whether you are the sentimental type--which I'm not--or just the opposite, anyone with a heart will appreciate Albom's book about his relationship during the last days with his old sociology professor, Morrie Schwartz. Written in a short, easy to plow through style, \\"Tuesdays with Morrie\\" tugs at the heart strings as we see Albom discover a new side of himself that he had ignored for the previous two decades. I like the honesty of the book as professor and old student dealt with the sensitive issue of death. I hope that I would/will be able to deal with death as Morrie did rather than deal with it by hiding under the covers, which is not the way we were meant to leave this life. <br />One thing I would have liked to have had more insight on was Morrie's religious beliefs. Besides showing his Jewishness and referring to God several times (for instance, Morrie felt God \\"overdid it\\" when it came to the story of Job), we never really know if Morrie was atheist, agnostic, orthodox Jew, or what. Maybe Morrie was not really open about his religious views, but I think his philosophy in this area would have been very interesting to many. Otherwise, this is a fine book that can easily be read in two short sittings. I highly recommend it as it will cause you to reflect on your own mortality and the things that make this life worthwhile (i.e. relationships with other people).	2003-06-09
US	50079159	R32HOY0DVN85HE	0764225243	258268082	The Same Sex Controversy: Defending and Clarifying the Bible's Message About Homosexuality	Books	5	26	34	N	Y	Good rebuttals to the homosexual arguments	White and Niell give a good biblical response to those who want to promote a \\"homosexual Christian\\" lifestyle. For those in this camp who believe in the authority of the Bible, they ought to consider the cogent arguments offered by these gentlemen. <br />At this point I wish to disagree with the several reviewers before me (from Virginia and Canada) who criticized the book. As far as not answering all homosexual arguments, the writer from Virginia lists two:<br />1) Jesus did not mention homosexuality (well, they basically answered this when they said that not everything is listed in the Bible, i.e. pediaphilia, Trinity, etc. Just because something is not specifically named does not make it wrong if the principle is there. The gospels don't specifically have Jesus naming many things as wrong, though he certainly would have thought they were);<br />2) The issue of the \\"love\\" shared between Jonathan and David. (There is absolutely nothing in the context of the relationship between these men to hint at anything erotic between them; it seems to be such a ludicrous argument that it hardly needs a response.)<br />As far as the argument that the authors already had their minds up and did not take the scripture to heart--as the critique from Canada says--this is an unbelievable statement! Everything about The Same Sex Controversy deals with scripture. It is up to the pro-homosexual advocate to show where in scripture the Bible endorses or promotes homosexual behavior. Besides inuendo and far stretches, there is absolutely no evidence whatsoever that the biblical commands were not meant for all time, such as for today. <br />For those who want answers in response to the homosexual agenda, I would recommend The Same Sex Controversy. The only thing the book lacks is a scripture index in the back. However, the authors probably felt this was not needed because the main passages referring to homosexuality (i.e. Leviticus 18, Romans 1, etc.) are listed in the \\"Contents\\" section. Besides this, I will keep the book on my shelf as a reference tool for this issue.	2003-06-01
US	50079159	R1U9656D9SQZ2R	0842381384	468708674	In the Presence of My Enemies	Books	5	41	45	N	N	A story of a courageous woman and her heroic husband	Martin and Gracia Burnham lived a year of hell with an integrity that I would hope I would have if, God forbid, I ever had to go through a similar circumstance. This book is an encouragement to persevere regardless of the circumstances put in our paths. While I do not know Gracia and never met Martin, I did spend a week with Martin's parents in the Ibaloi tribe (Philippines) back in 1983. Based on my short time with Martin's parents, I can see why Martin was as strong of a person as his wife portrays him as being. I also was part of a work team that helped in the construction of a two-story school building at Aritao, a small missionary village/air base located on the main Philippine island of Luzon that was often mentioned throughout the book because it was home to the Burnhams and their children. <br />I also want to commend Dean Merrill for helping make this a book that even a 4th grader could understand and follow. I appreciate the \\"rosters\\" of the three dozen characters in the front of the book. This is the map for the reader to understand the personalities and backgrounds  of the Abu Sayyaf and the hostages. Without this, the book would have been utterly confusing. The reader ought to keep his finger there for quick reference.<br />Finally, I was tickled to see where Gracia dedicated \\"In the Presence\\" to those who prayed for her and Martin during their year-long ordeal. I was one who tried to pray regularly from the time I first heard about the kidnapping. It was ironic for me when I read how Gracia believed that her prayers were almost for naught late in the ordeal. This was probably around the same time (early 2002) that I questioned God about \\"how much longer do I have to pray\\" before He would have something happen. The more time that elapsed after the initial kidnapping, the more I began to doubt that either of them would survive, especially because I remembered praying for the three NTM missionaries in South America through many years before finding out that they had been killed. <br />Thanks, Gracia, for sharing your story and being an encouragement for many Christians. My feeling is, if this humble servant can make it through her ordeal and retain her faith, I can make it through whatever the Lord puts my way!	2003-05-19
US	50079159	R7297JU893ITY	0830815694	386224253	Jesus' Resurrection: Fact or Figment?: A Debate Between William Lane Craig & Gerd Ludemann	Books	4	9	12	N	N	No contest, Craig shows strong case	While only a fifth of this book involves the actual debate between William Lane Craig and Gerd Ludemann, it was the highlight of a book that also includes articles from others commenting on the points made in the debate. Unfortunately, I didn't feel Lundemann was on the same page as Craig, who laid out a clear and concise plan of why the historical resurrection is true. At the time of the debate, Ludemann apparently considered himself to be a Christian, though he has apparently changed his mind since this debate and now declares himself a nonbeliever. Ludemann has a theory (hallucination) that I just don't see how everything matches up. Ludemann does not seem to give an adequate explanation to many important points made by Craig. Except for a disconnect on the actual debate, though, the book is worth a read for those wanting two sides to the issue of Christianity's most important claim.	2003-05-03
US	50079159	R3I7HK00P66S8F	0849943272	403659288	Jesus Among Other Gods: The Absolute Claims of the Christian Message	Books	4	57	67	N	Y	Solid overview of the foundation of Jesus	Jesus is Someone who is referenced somehow by practically every religion in the world. From Hindus to Muslims and the cults based in America, there is no doubt that having Jesus as part of one's theology is vital. In this book Ravi Zacharias explains whether or not there is any valid claim to truth and Christ in any other religion but Christianity. Ravi has good stories to tell, writing like an expository preacher with clear, easy-to-understand points. His illustrations are vivid. I guess my only complaint is that he could have tackled the &#34;absolute claims of the Christian message&#34; via a more systematic breakdown with each particular religion. He was continually referring to the Buddhist, Hindu, and others (especially with pantheist ideas), but unless you had previous knowledge of these religions and what they taught, it would seem that the typical layperson would have had trouble keeping up. Still, while it does not get too deep, there is plenty of meat here, and I think the book is very much worth a read. Ravi is a clear evangelical voice in the wilderness, and I appreciate his logic and stand for truth.	2003-04-16
US	50079159	R1509JV96FPD2K	0849932343	159810565	Don't Check Your Brains at the Door: A Book of Christian Evidences (Know What You Believe and Why)	Books	5	36	40	N	Y	Great for a teen-age audience	McDowell hits home with youth by presenting apologetic ideas in an easy-to-understand mini-devotional. I have recommended this book to my high school students for five years now, and many have really enjoyed it. (Those who didn't enjoy it said it was too simple, so I merely recommended that they read Strobel's The Case for Christ/The Case for Faith--student editions. For the hard core who feel these are still too easy, I recommend Lewis' Mere Christianity.) I just gave the book to my fourth-grade daughter, and in a month she has completed half of it with comprehension, meaning that it probably will not work too well with a post-teen audience. But for those teens who do want to know more about their faith, this is a great place to start.	2003-03-31
US	50079159	R1XJ76X5SAWL1R	0060652950	94824058	The Great Divorce	Books	5	8	9	N	N	C.S. Lewis does get you to think	I decided to pick up The Great Divorce after a 15-year hiatus when I saw a play based on this work. The play was splendid, so I decided to reread this short but power-packed book. Based on the decisions made by the characters who made the bus trip to a place between heaven and hell, I decided that not much has changed since Lewis' day (or since I last read this). Some very insightful comments are made, and I found myself challenged in several ways. Lewis has a way of putting things that, though complex, he makes sound almost simple. I appreciate his insights and hope that I can apply some of the lessons into the last half of my life. I'm grateful to people like Lewis when they are able to have such an impact in the way I think. Definitely one of my top five Lewis favorites.	2003-03-31
US	50079159	R1UDYQXK4J7FYC	0310234840	25630069	The Case for Christ: A Journalist's Personal Investigation of the Evidence for Jesus (Student Edition)	Books	5	69	74	N	N	Great for students who want reasons for belief in Christ	Much condensced from the original The Case for Christ, this book gets five stars because it is simple enough for the average junior/senior higher to understand his faith. One of my students says this is the best book that he ever read and was genuinely appreciative that the book was aimed at his level of understanding. The former skeptic Strobel asks some of the tough questions that many skeptics pose to Christians every day. Many Christians have been scared from sharing their faith because they don't have all the answers, and that's a shame. <br />The nice thing about this book is that Strobel asks prominent Christian scholars about the authenticity of Christ, His nature, and the veracity of the resurrection. Strobel interviews such greats as Bruce Metzger, Edwin Yamauchi, Gary Collins, D.A. Carson, William Lane Craig, Gary Habermas, and J.P. Moreland. While the aforementioned scholars have all written plenty on their own, many of their tomes are unreadable by the average Christian layperson. But in the student edition of The Case for Christ, the writing is not too theological or difficult to understand. I believe anyone with doubts about Jesus Christ will view Him differently after reading this book. The Christian layperson will also benefit by learning answers to support her beliefs (1 Pet. 3:15-16). For these reasons, I highly recommend this book.	2003-03-25
US	50079159	R1FJ77O9747493	031024188X	410592075	Case for Faith--Student Edition, The	Books	5	24	25	N	Y	Questions of faith aimed at inquiring students	Lee Strobel has written several good books that could be especially valuable to someone new in the Christian faith. This is a revised version of his book The Case for Faith, which goes quite nicely with his first book, The Case for Christ. In this edition of The Case for Faith, Strobel--who is a former skeptic--continues where he left off with The Case for Christ. He interviews scholars all over the country, picking their brains for answers to some of the toughest questions out there, including evil, miracles, and \\"oppressive\\" church history. I thought the novelistic style helped make the book a quick read. Teens who want to understand their Christian faith will be helped by reading this book. While it will not solve all of their dilemmas or give answers to each and every question, the information provided by Strobel will certainly help.  Overall I recommend The Case for Faith for its apologetic value.	2003-03-25
US	50079159	R3UAV8QU8UWVAO	0471226696	754205150	Improve the Value of Your Home up to $100,000: 50 Sure-Fire Techniques and Strategies	Books	5	58	58	N	N	Common sense building of a home's equity	Offering &quot;50 surefire techniques and strategies&quot; to help improve the value of one's home, Irwin utilizes common sense to help owners decide where it is best to spend their money on their homes. With the recent real estate run-up (especially where I live in Southern California), the best investment we can make is in the very place we live. While I don't plan to sell in the near future, I always want to be sure my home could be ready for a sale at any time, just in case. Irwin gives dollar-sign guides as to how much value an improvement could help increase the price you could eventually ask for your property. Although very little in this book was new to me, I highly recommend it for folks who are not very sure about how to increase the value of their homes. Although there were several suggestions I questioned (especially the value he gave to some improvements and how little he valued other improvements), I believe that he used sound judgment to guide the reader. I plan on utlizing several of the improvement ideas in my own home!	2003-03-21
US	50079159	R2APOQQAN1447L	0849928931	545204127	The Gift of Sex: A Guide to Sexual Fulfillment	Books	5	67	73	N	N	One of those books you don't forget about	I remember reading this book when I first became engaged. My wife and I (we've been married more than 14 years now) went through premarital counseling and decided to read a variety of Christian books to help us better understand just what we were getting into. The Gift of Sex helped us to deal with some myths that we may have been holding, and it prepared us for the first night as well as the rest of our lives. While their drawings of the body can sometimes be pretty scary-looking, it was good for us to have a full understanding of what it was going to take to make our sexual relationship work. Not only do we have different bodies, but we also have different needs. Needless to say, we're still working hard to perfect the techniques, but I would say it's better for both of us to have the same understanding, which helps dispel many myths. I would recommend this book for couples to read together, especially those who are about to be married. It will be an eye-opener for many in an issue that is not very easy to talk about in front of other people.	2003-02-15
US	50079159	RE8KU66JYX7OT	0965402908	970062463	Guide to Biblical Coins	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A must for those interested in biblical coins	I have been a collector of biblical coins for more than a decade, and Hendin's writings have been a tremendous help. I enjoy his insights, stories, and overall knowledge. The illustrations of the coins are wonderful, and the pictures in the back of the book are of top quality. I believe Hendin is the foremost expert in the world today when it comes to the coins of the Bible. Of course, these books are a bit pricy. I own the 1st and 3rd editions, but I've held off on the 4th just because I think I'll keep the pattern going and wait for the 5th ed. (2004 perhaps???). But if you own nothing, this edition is better than none. I highly recommend it, either as a resource manual or a book to read from cover to cover.	2003-01-22
US	50079159	R2Y4AUIHF84CXV	0785211543	896146503	Nelson's Complete Book of Bible Maps & Charts: Old and New Testaments	Books	4	68	70	N	N	Fine but simplistic	I almost think this book is misnamed. Covering Genesis through Revelation, it serves more as an overview of the books of the Bible in its order, including providing background, author, theme, and other information that you would expect in a study Bible or commentary. This is fine. The charts are available throughout, but they are quite simplistic and are not really in any order. Of course, you can look in the index for help, but unless you know what you are looking for, a particular chart or map might be hard to find. For instance, they have a small chart on Christ's superiority at the end of the section on Hebrews. Unless you knew that was there, how would you ever find it? Although this book is fine, if you are searching for clearer and more detailed charts and maps, let me recommend the Holman Book of Charts and Maps. I think this would be a better buy, if I had to choose between the two.	2003-01-22
US	50079159	R1WZWBKR1OYPIZ	0764551973	792206758	Coaching Kids For Dummies	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Good for first-timers	I have appreciated the Dummies series as the publisher has some fun with topics that we might not have a clue. Having coached both Little League and softball (ASA), I saw this book on the shelf and decided to buy it to see if there are any hints that I might have been missing. Overall, this book is excellent for those who are just starting out in the coaching world. Handling kids and knowing the sport can be quite tricky, especially when parents are part of the equation. I think looking this over before stepping onto the field (and looking like a \\"dummy\\") is a very wise investment of money and time. I pretty much experienced most of what he explained, but Wolff was very straightforward and to the point. I appreciated his insights and will consider using several of the tips that I had not thought of before. Parents, get out of your lawn chairs, quit complaining behind our backs, and help us other parents coach!	2003-01-20
US	50079159	ROSNC3XBB35LL	0801058066	1352604	Relativism: Feet Firmly Planted in Mid-Air	Books	5	19	26	N	N	The book's true for me	Beckwith and Koukl do a wonderful job showing how relativism truly cannot stand up under the weight of truth. (I love their subtitle: &quot;Feet Firmly Planted in Mid-Air.&quot;) They logically go through the flaws of this &quot;everybody's right&quot; philosophy, showing definitively how such a position is self-refuting. I especially enjoyed chapter 14, which dealt with tactics that can be used to refute relativism. (Even the most simple layperson can understand the examples given here to help deal with this all-too-prevalent philosophy.) Parts 3 and 4 are a bit heady, and a layperson is going to have to work his way through the higher level philosophy that Beckwith presents here. Parts 1 and 5 are much more simple and can easily be understood by the ones who most need this book, nonprofessional Christians who must encounter relativism head-on in their workplaces and campuses. I especially recommend this book to thinking high school juniors and seniors as they prepare to tackle the university classroom in the next year or two. As Christians, we must all protect ourselves from buying into this &quot;tar-baby,&quot; as Alvin Plantinga calls it. This book is definitely worth the time and effort.	2003-01-15
US	50079159	R1PCR42ZC0AT7D	0830726632	192427575	Real Teens: A Contemporary Snapshot of Youth Culture	Books	5	12	12	N	Y	A book that every youth worker needs to read	George Barna has written plenty in the realm of Christian ministry that pastors and other Christian workers ought to read. In \\"Real Teens,\\" he hits another home run as he describes the \\"Mosaic\\" generation, utilizing a number of polls and other research to show just where this generation has been, where it is now, and where it is going.<br />Having worked with teens for the past decade, I believe that I need to continue to keep up with sociological research such as this. And Barna makes it quite easy to do, incorporating easy-to-understand explanations with numerous charts. (In the wrong hands, this would be a \\"boring\\" book, but if you like stats and facts, you'll be enthralled.) Much of this information will be considered as I continue to do ministry among this generation. (If I didn't listen, then I am not taking advantage of making my ministry the best it can possibly me, and that would be a shame.) <br />One fact that I just didn't realize was how religious this group is. One-third of the generation attends youth group, for instance, though it's not always for the spiritual benefit but rather for the social interaction they receive. This is a generation that desperately craves truth yet embraces many moral relativistic ideas. We Christian adults need to help these young people develop their Christianity so they can be of benefit to the next generation that comes along, whatever its name will be. <br />If you haven't noticed, my recommendation for this superb book is a big thumbs up. Barna at his finest.	2003-01-08
US	50079159	RBXOVSL3MZZ8S	0830823212	705375482	Hollywood Worldviews: Watching Films With Wisdom & Discernment	Books	3	44	45	N	Y	Hollywood's agenda in film	Brian Godawa tackles the issue of how to watch movies and be a discerning Christian at the same time. He believes extremes are wrong, whether it's the belief of being able to watch any and every movie that comes out (and not have it affect you) or being a Christian prude and declare that all movies are evil. He does an admirable job disecting movies--many of which were released in the past decade--and explaining the message that the producers are trying to convey. I esepcially appreciated the different charts that he laid out, including p. 37 and a comparison of The Matrix, Christianity, and Greek religion. Very helpful.<br />I found myself agreeing with Godawa in many places, including his analysis of various films. At other places, I found myself disagreeing out loud. Besides disagreeing with his analysis of certain films, let me give one example where I did not click with Godawa. In the appendix, much space was used to show how the Bible has sex, violence, and profanity, thus almost making it seem that watching practically any movie would be A-OK. He tempers this, especially in the last few pages, but I still think it's apples and oranges if we were to say that we can watch whatever we want because such issues are dealt with in the Bible. In a way Godawa acknowledges this and says that \\"a sense of balance is what a Christian needs...Christians tend to be either cultural gluttons or cultural anorexics. It seems we either avoid all movies or watch too many of them.\\" I agree with him that, if we pick our movies wisely, there is much to gain. I found it interesting, though, that many of the movies talked about in the book are probably those movies I myself would avoid, either because they were lame (as many movie critics would attest) or are so morally objectionable that I would have to ask, Can you really get anything good out of a dumpster full of garbage?<br />Two other criticisms are the inclusion of \\"director's cut\\" notes throughout the book, which in reality was multiple promotions of his web site. Several times I wished that Godawa would have further expanded on a particular topic in his book rather than ask us to go to his site. Isn't this why we buy a particular book? Couldn't he have expanded it to include the issues his sites had, including unpublished chapters? I appreciate the fact that he had other information available, but I didn't look up one reference. Finally, how could a book like this not include an index, especially one that would have incorporated the different movies talked about in the book. Since he talked about a movie more than once, I found myself thumbing backward to see what else he had said about that particular film. Not being able to look in an index was extremely frustrating. It might have also been a benefit for the reader if Godawa provided his personal ratings of the books he reviewed, perhaps giving us an idea of movies that he feels we should or should not see. These ideas would have given Hollywood Worldviews a more complete feel.<br />My criticisms aside, I still feel that this is worthy of a look by the discerning Christian moviegoer.	2003-01-04
US	50079159	R24BYOW0FLI6GO	0899007988	96800977	See the Gods Fall: Four Rivals to Christianity	Books	4	7	9	N	N	Pass the dominoes, please	Beckwith and Parrish use their evidentialist ideas to tackle four major philosophical world views: Mormonism, secular humanism, Baha'ism and the &quot;New Age&quot; movement. Philosophy is their speciality as they set up the basic mistakes made by many Christians in an attempt to show how these views are logically faulty. As they indicate, the Christian too often is left hanging as he uses improper logic--logical fallacies are named throughout the book--to prove his point. The authors show how a person could do better.<br />The book contains many good ideas, but there are some shortcomings. For one, their ideas about Mormonism are pretty much detailed in a book co-edited by Beckwith titled The New Mormon Challenge. If you read the latter, especially William Lane Craig's chapter, you will have a much better look at what these authors try to say in their limited pages. The chapter on secular humanism is probably their best. The Bah'ai chaper...well, I'm not sure how many American evangelicals have ever even met someone from this faith, which by no means is extremely popular in the U.S. Besides Beckwith's interest in this group--he did write a book on this topic--I'm not sure why they included this chapter. Finally, the &quot;New Age&quot; movement--do we still call it that?--is so general as to not be very useful. <br />This book is certainly worth a look, but there are other books I would suggest first.	2002-12-18
US	50079159	R1HGM32FTAMUSS	0764222880	383769649	The God Who Justifies	Books	4	8	11	N	N	The doctrine that separates evangelical Xtianity from others	James White gives a comprehensive study on the doctrine of justification, the one doctrine that was at the heart of the Reformation. In the first half of the book White covers such issues as justification by faith alone, imputation, and the cross of Christ. He then heads into exegetical studies of the first half of Romans and a variety of other passages, including James 2:14-26.<br />There were places where the book does bog down; it is not a book to skim. I felt that, at times, White was crystal clear in what he was saying, and then other places where I had to stop and reread to make sure I understood his point, where perhaps a little rewording would have been very helpful. For those laypeople who have no elementary knowledge of Greek, there will be places in the exegetical section (2nd half) where additonal confusion could ensue. NonCalvinists may also want to debate points made by the Reformed White and the men he constantly quotes (i.e. Hodge, Calvin, Murray, etc.), though his position will not surprise those who are familiar with the prolific White.<br />Overall, though, this is a book well worth reading and then having on the shelf to look up passages that are certain to be brought up by such groups as Catholics and Mormons, both of whom belong to churches that add works as a requirement to the doctrine of justification.	2002-11-24
US	50079159	R82GFSJM32TRW	0310231949	603152781	New Mormon Challenge, The	Books	4	96	115	N	N	Has its good parts but is philosophically deep	If anything can be said about The New Mormon Challenge (henceforth TNMC), it has to be that it is sure to create controversy. After all, never before have so many different Christian scholars attempted to respond-in one volume, even-to Brigham Young University professors as well as LDS apologists. <br />The position taken by the editors assumes that the words of LDS scholars or even the personal beliefs of the laity may supercede that of the First Presidency and Council of the Twelve. For the average Mormon, truth is contained in the four standard works and the current words of the leaders. When one of the editors, Carl Mosser, says that \\"evangelical apologists\\" are \\"jealously\\" guarding a type of Mormonism that is not believed by Mormons, I ask if Mosser believes the majority of Mormons would hold to the following beliefs: 1) The idea that \\"As man is, God once was; as God is, man may become; 2) The idea that temple work is essential to reaching the highest level of the celestial kingdom; 3) The idea that ultimate truth is to be found in the Standard Works as well as the LDS prophet and apostles; 4) The idea that a person must be baptized in the Mormon Church to have an authentic baptismal experience; 5) The idea that Joseph Smith and succeeding church leaders were given complete authority on earth; 6) The idea that the Mormon Church is the most trustworthy church in the world. <br />The list could go on. The point is that I have no doubt that no less than 80 percent of all Latter-day Saints would immediately agree with me that the above six points as fully being Mormon doctrine. I am not sure why Mosser makes a blanket statement to make it appear that Christians involved with LDS outreaches are making up their own brand of Mormonism-a straw man, so to speak-so they can more easily tear the religion down. This, I believe, is just not accurate. <br />While the editors would like the Christian community to direct more effort to respond to the scholarly LDS community while paying less attention to the teachings of LDS leaders, they forget one very important point. That is, the Mormon Church is considered to be a restoration of the Christianity that is said to have died soon after the time of the apostles. When Joseph Smith was supposedly given the keys of this authority by Peter, James, John, and even by God the Father and Jesus, it is believed by most Mormons that he was personally given the authority the church lost more than a millennium ago. <br />Indeed, Smith's own history records that the Christian churches \\"were all wrong\\" (Joseph Smith-History 1:19). Succeeding leaders have made it a point to declare that there is no true church on the face of the earth except for the Mormon Church itself. Currently Mormons hold that all authority rests with current LDS President Gordon B. Hinckley, his First Presidency, and the apostles. For a vast majority of Latter-day Saints, what a certain BYU professor or FARMS scholar says does not mean half as much as what President Hinckley says, especially at the general conference. <br />So my question is why focus on the scholars when most LDS members direct their attention of the Standard Works and LDS leadership? (Strange, but I wonder why the Mormon high school seminary students merely study the Bible, D&C, and Book of Mormon during their four years of study. I don't see them studying \\"Church Scholars.\\") <br />Who is this book intended to reach? Perhaps it was meant as a discussion for the scholars. No doubt it will be a great resource for seminary professors and some pastors. It will probably also be a great asset to Christian apologists. <br />Yet I just don't see how TNMC-though attracting LDS intellectuals to the table of discussion-will have a wide impact on the general LDS community. I doubt most Mormons will ever even hear of this book, let alone pick it up in their lifetime. It can be safely said that the majority of Mormons are too busy with families, church-related activities, donating their time in church ministry, etc. to even care what the scholars, either Mormon or Christian, declare is truth. The Mormon has a burning in his bosom, and no scholar could ever alter this \\"fact\\" regardless of the available evidence. <br />Its depth will probably confuse many readers who do not have a considerable grasp of the book's technical language related to philosophy, logic, and science. Those Christians who buy TNMC thinking it is a witnessing-tip manual will be sorely disappointed as the arguments will be unintelligible to the average Mormon. <br />With this being said, I need to temper my criticism by saying there are many important arguments raised in TNMC that will be beneficial for many Christians. The best chapters were 3 (Kalam Argument), 8 (Monotheism and the New Testament), and 10 (Book of Mormon and Ancient Near Eastern Background). As far as recommending this book, I would certainly do so for those who are more learned in the fields of philosophy, theology, and the background of the Mormon Church. However, this is not meant to be a popular book or one that can be easily digested by the majority of Christian and Mormon laity. Thus, for such people, I would think that TNMC will have very little impact since much of the material will sail over their heads. Based on this, each reader needs to make a personal choice...	2002-10-21
US	50079159	R2ALEBRNGDX9ZZ	0310224764	613882282	Five Views on Apologetics	Books	4	37	41	N	N	Apologetics down and dirty	Before I write anything, I would like to suggest that the reader of &quot;Five Views on Apologetics&quot; first read &quot;Faith Has Its Reasons&quot; by Kenneth Bow and Robert Bowman, Jr. (NavPress). Doing so will give you a good overview of the methodology taken by the different positions; it would be akin to reading a preview of this afternoon's football game, with a summary of the players and the strategy that will be used fully explained.<br />Overall &quot;Five Views on Apologetics&quot; is worthwhile for the serious-minded Christian. I do like these &quot;View&quot; books because they allow all sides to take part in a dialogue that certainly has more potential to get things accomplished rather than a free-for-all live debate. All sides get to give their side with succeeding rebuttals. This book certainly had some lively discussion as all of the participants had their own ideas of how apologetics should be handled. The five positions were: William Lane Craig (classical); Gary Habermas (evidential); Paul Feinberg (cumulative); John Frame (presuppositional); Kelly James Clark (Reformed Epistemological).<br />However, there were three weak points that I need to point out. First, I'm not sure the debaters were the best representatives of the positions they defended. For instance, Craig could be described as a combination classicist/evidentialist. Much of what he said could have been written by Habermas, as even Habermas admitted. Feinberg had, I believe, the weakest argumentation, as I just never did track with his thoughs. Meanwhile, Frame certainly has his own twist on Van Til's ideas, yet these twists make his position a &quot;kinder, gentler&quot; version of Reformed apologetics and thus is not truly representative of Van Tillians--and there are plenty of these thinkers out there. And Clark might as well let Alvin Plantinga write his section since Clark seemed to mention Plantinga in practically every paragraph. <br />Second, it is apparent that much of the differences quickly became similarities by the end of the book. In fact, Craig even mentioned how he appreciated the similarities the debaters had.  If this is so, then why write the book in the first place? In fact, more than once a respondent to another's position declared, in essence, &quot;Why, that could have been me writing! I think--fill in the name--really is a--fill in the position--like I am.&quot; This attitude prevailed through much of the book, especially in the concluding comments. (At the same time, perhaps we should rejoice that in a book of Christian division, so many similarities could be found!) <br />Finally, I think the book got a little too technical in some areas, especially by several of the writers. I think Craig is a master philosopher, and I've seen Bayes' Theorem before, but I'm still scratching my head trying to understand several pages of formulas he put together to support one of his points. Perhaps with some personal explanation I could better understand, but I'm thinking many reading this book would have been totally lost (as I humbly admit I was). Although I didn't agree with his stance, I thought John Frame did the best in explaining his philosophy in the simplist, most logical way possible. <br />Despite what I feel are its shortcomings, I do recommend this book for the serious student who is interested in apologetics. I enjoyed it very much and was certainly enlightened about the role apologetics takes in the Christian's life.	2002-09-02
US	50079159	R3G20Z9UI5OT7O	1576831434	600954045	Faith Has Its Reasons : An Integrative Approach to Defending Christianity	Books	5	19	22	N	Y	An apologetic methodology	The apostle Peter was very clear when he said that we are to have an answer for everyone who asks us to give the reason for the hope that we have (1 Peter 3:15-16). However, he didn't give us specifics of how we were to go about giving these answers, so Christians have taken it upon themselves to create different systems of methodology in order to follow the commands of Jesus (Matt. 29:19-20) and the apostles (Jude 3; 1 John 4:1).<br />The reason why I like &quot;Faith Has Its Reasons&quot; is that the authors make it very difficult to see where their biases lie. They cover the major ways apologetics is practiced (classical, evidential, Reformed, fideistic, and integrative) and give reasons used by its adherents to support their particular positions. What's interesting to me is how, in so many cases, I was able to agree with plenty presented in each position. It seems very clear to me that those from the different camps are (were) dedicated Christians who read the same Bible I do and worship the same God and Jesus. It's just that we don't quite see eye-to-eye on the exact process of how we are to &quot;have an answer.&quot;<br />It should be pointed out that there is little difference between classical/evidential (the authors even point to William Lane Craig as a hybrid of the two positions) and Reformed/fideistic. When I went to seminary, I was taught that much of the conflict came between Carnell and Van Til; while that might be too simplified, the disagreement these men had really seems to be a dividing line between what could easily be lumped into two camps rather than five. <br />I'm not sure that this book will change the way you view apologetics, but it certainly will give you a clearer understanding of why, say, a Reformed thinker might shudder when someone says Geisler or Aquinas. It will help you understand the reaons why there is disagreement about how apologetics ought to be done. An excellent index that can be used to find certain thinkers and see wherethey belong is another strong feature of the book.<br />As for me, I tend to lean toward the classical/evidential system because it's the way I live. Regardless of a person's disagreement with me or the fact that one's presuppositions against Christianity may keep him from ever believing, I believe that Isaiah 1:18 as well as the systematic arguments demonstrated by the apostles (I immediately think of Paul in Acts 17) beckons me to present the evidence as best I know how to persuade as many as called unto God. (As a friend of mine says, &quot;We are only in sales; God is in production.&quot;) I also know that presuppostionalism tends to lend itself to a specator sort of syndrome. A recent example is a debate in San Diego last spring between a presuppositionalist and an atheist. The Christian get &quot;blown out of the water&quot; because he dodged the atheist's arguments and rested his case with hardly a blow. True apologetics means having to go where some Christians may fear to tread (especially in this politically correct age we live in) and get some dirt under our fingernails in order to present truth. It is through this type of apologetics where people who otherwise would have never known God became dedicated Christians (McDowell and Craig are two, off the top of my head).<br />Needless to say, &quot;Faith Has Its Reasons&quot; will be staying close by on my bookshelf as a ready-reference tool. I highly recommend it for those Christians who are willing to think outside the box.	2002-09-02
US	50079159	R2GOYA2RW0VZTK	0941214796	850143647	Mormon Polygamy: A History	Books	5	43	50	N	N	Detailed information on the history of polygamy	I first read Van Wagoner's book a decade ago, but I dusted it off recently as I read through Richard Abanes' excellent tome \\"One Nation Under Gods.\\" Although Van Wagoner is, as I far as I know and understand it, LDS, he is very fair with the facts, even though he shows the LDS Church leaders from the turn of the 20th century in a less-than-honest light. I find it amusing where several previous reviewers on Amazon claimed that this is an anti-LDS work. Why should something be considered \\"anti-LDS\\" just because it gives the documented facts with the sources included? A religion that struggles with only encouraging \\"faith-promoting\\" materials is one that should be highly scruntinized before one attempts to become invovled with it. <br />The book's type is small--I estimate it at 11 point--so be prepared to put on the reading glasses. I do like the fact, though, that Van Wagoner kept the endnotes to a minimum. I also appreciated that they were at the end of the chapters rather than in the back of the book. (I wish publishers of academic works would cease from the pointless practice of sticking the endnotes in the back of the book. In fact, what's wrong with footnotes?)<br />Since Van Wagoner has written the book, much has happened in Mormon polygamy, including the public arrest and trial of one Utah polygamist who, I believe, was prosecuted thanks to the Salt Lake Olympics. I have known some Utah polygamists who hold to the very ideas officially believed by Mormons before 1890 (or 1904). In fact, they believe that the LDS Church is apostate because its leaders changed a vital doctrine of Mormonism. I would almost have to side with them in their contention that their version is much more authentic and closer in origin to the pure Mormonism as explained by Joseph Smith and Brigham Young, among others. Polygamy is an ugly business, though, as I have seen firsthand some of the situations with which current polygamists have to deal. I recommend this book for anyone who wantsto get a clearer picture of polygamy in America, especially as it was historically believed by the LDS Church.	2002-08-23
US	50079159	R1DZ535Y2I2782	0806134267	500998168	Blood of the Prophets: Brigham Young and the Massacre at Mountain Meadows	Books	5	132	161	N	N	Laying the blame at Brigham's feet	For years the slaughter of the Fancher wagon train at Mountain Meadows in southern Utah has been a point of contention for the Mormon Church. Who is to blame? According to the official version of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, Mormon John D. Lee was the primary villain who, as the lone scapegoat, paid for his crime when he was executed in 1877. Although the massacre had been discussed in \\"anti-Mormon\\" books, it was a loyal Mormon by the name of Juanita Brooks who bravely penned \\"The Mountain Meadows Massacre\\" in 1950. Her book created a firestorm by giving credible reasons to believe that several Mormons in high positions were, in fact, responsible for the tragic event of September 11, 1857. <br />Now a new book by historian Will Bagley is going to cause the Mormon Church even more consternation as he attempts to lay blame for the massacre directly at the feet of second LDS President Brigham Young. This was a theory privately held by Brooks, but she could not prove this at the time of her book. On page 363 Bagley writes, \\"A historian's professional and personal conclusions often differ, as was the case with Brooks' final assignment of responsibility for the massacre at Mountain Meadows. In the last revision of her book, she stressed the importance of Young's manipulation of the Indian leaders and the military orders placing `each man where he was to do his duty.' She retained her original conclusion that the existing evidence did not prove that Brigham Young and George A. Smith specifically order the massacre, but it showed they `set up social conditions that made it possible.' In a private letter to Roger B. Mathison of the University of Utah Library, she went much further: she had `come to feel that Brigham Young was directly responsible for the tragedy.' John D. Lee, she believed, would make it to heaven before Brigham Young.\\"<BR> <BR>Bagley states, \\"Claiming that Brigham Young had nothing to do with Mountain Meadows is akin to arguing that Abraham Lincoln had nothing to do with the Civil War\\" (p. 379). He discounts the vilification of the Arkansas immigrants/victims as nothing but lies perpetrated by the murderers themselves. Bagley recognizes the complicated events leading up to the tragic event, but he makes it clear that one cannot overlook the fact that this was an act to avenge the blood of Mormon apostle Parley P. Pratt who was killed in May of 1857 by the legal husband of his 12th wife, Eleanor McLean, in Arkansas. Bagley's \\"smoking gun\\" (?) is the journal of Dimick Huntington, a source never seen by Brooks. Huntington recorded a meeting that Young had with local Indians on September 1, 1857 where he agreed to give the emigrants' cattle to the Indians. Says Bagley, \\"He [Young] encouraged his Indian allies to attack the Fancher party to make clear to the nation the cost of war with the Mormons\\" (p. 379).<br />Bagley's book is a must read for anyone who wants to get beyond the LDS Church spin on this very thorny issue. Mormon Church historian Richard Turley and his loyal band of researchers will be coming out next year with what will certainly look like a rebuttal to Bagley's conclusions. Regardless, \\"Blood of the Prophets\\" is sure to shake up many Mormons who for the first time will realize that it is quite possible their second president was responsible for the murders of 120 innocent men, women, and children.	2002-08-16
US	50079159	R1KAE3TR5VE418	0316525405	554911079	One Nation: America Remembers September 11, 2001	Books	5	11	11	N	Y	Amazing pictoral look at 9-11	I bought this as a gift to my sister, but before I wrapped it, I ended up looking through the photos that told the haunting story of 9-11. Now, granted, I have not seen the other books by other publishers, but I was amazed at the vividness captured on film. My wife is a photographer, and I know how hard she works to capture images that are \\"worth a 1,000 words.\\" The photographers who sold their images to Life have done their job. If you want a keep-sake to remember one of the greatest tragedies in American history, I recommend this book. It helps give perspective as to the true tragedy of the events taking place that day.	2002-08-15
US	50079159	R161AQ35JUYLND	0671203231	224357917	Why I Am Not a Christian and Other Essays on Religion and Related Subjects	Books	2	24	53	N	N	Not what the title advertises	First, I acknowledge that my submitting this review up with only two stars will probably cost me so \\"votes,\\" as others who have given similar reviews of Russell's book have paid the price.  With this being said, I want to say that my reaction to this book can be best characterized by \\"disappointment.\\" The title (\\"Why I am Not a Christian\\") is written in 60-point bold letters, with a 12-point subtitle (\\"and other essays on religion and related subjects\\"). Given the main title, I expected more of a polemic against Christianity. I bought the book with this expectation, which is a good reminder to never judge a book by its title. This is because, with the exception of several of the 15 essays, the title would have been more appropriately labeled \\"What I Believe\\" (which is the title of Russell's third essay) with the subtitle: \\"Reasons to Support Secular Humanism.\\"<br />The first essay (\\"Why I am not a Christian\\") takes up only 21 of the book's 266 pages. This is not even half as long as the appendix's 54 pages describing why Russell was not permitted to teach at the College of the City of New York. For a book with its title, I was hoping for more cogent and reasonable argumentation with validating evidence. This I was not given. I appreciate Russell's arguments, but they were not convincing. He also had a tendency to generalize and lump \\"Christians\\" into one category by making blanket statements. (For instance, he criticizes \\"Christians\\" for holding a negative view toward sex. I suppose he is aiming this barb at Catholicism's teaching that birth control is wrong. This certainly isn't true today; while it may have been truer during his day, this is still not a core reason proving Christianity to be false.)<br />I believe that Russell's ideas from the essay \\"Why I Am Not a Christian\\" have been well answered over the past 45 years since the book was compiled in 1957. Russell attacks the first-cause argument (I recommend Craig's \\"The Kalam Argument\\" for a philosophical refutation), the natural law argument, the argument from design (an atheist in a recent debate whom I observed used Russell's line of logic--Russell's ideas certainly haven't faded away many years later!), and the moral argument, among others. However, no documentation is given except for Russell's ideas. In fact, there is very little development in the writing as Russell attempts to refute evidence in support of the existence of God. <br />Again, I realize many atheists will be reading my review, so let me add one more thing. I truly could/would have been more generous with my rating if the book delivered what the title promised. Yet it did not. As far as Christian refutations to Russell's first essay, I recommend \\"When Skeptics Ask\\" by Norman Geisler and Thomas Howe; \\"Reasonable Faith\\" by William Lane Craig; and \\"Handbook of Christian Apologetics\\" by Peter Kreeft. Otherwise, for those who have not already made up their minds, I think you also may be disappointed by this book.	2002-08-15
US	50079159	R1UOLGWLHLF4XC	1568582196	625674578	One Nation Under Gods: A History of the Mormon Church	Books	5	90	122	N	N	A great overview of the Mormon religion	There are several ways one could describe One Nation Under Gods (hereafter ONUG). Some who disdain the subject of history might say it's long. At 651 pages, they would be right. Others might say it's detailed, which is another accurate description since approximately one-third of the book is made up of endnotes. (The only problem is the dizziness you might encounter by having to flip back and forth to keep up with these notes. However, they add many details and should therefore not be ignored.) Although Mormons might claim that Abanes gives a tainted history, I submit, to the contrary, that he has masterfully and historically compiled the basics of Mormonism's history and doctrines into one volume. <br />The book chronologically covers Mormonism from an evangelical Christian perspective. Many Latter-day Saints wrongly claim that Mormonism can and should only be explained by Mormons. This is what the reader who wrote on 6/27/02 infers. If this writer's idea is correct, then I suppose that: only David Koresh's surviving followers are able to accurately explain the Branch Davidian movement; only Republicans can objectively write about the current president; and only former football players are in a position to comment on O.J. Simpson and his trial. This is ridiculous! Why should a history written by someone who doesn't belong to this religion be automatically considered not trustworthy? <br />The fact is that Abanes is very objective throughout most of his book. In fact, he is even sympathetic at times with the Mormon cause. For instance, on pages 114-115 he defends the Mormons against unjust persecution the Latter-day Saints received in Missouri in 1833, saying they suffered from \\"brutal acts\\" at the hands of the Missourians. While it is true that Abanes ultimately is in disagreement with the Mormon religion, this does not mean his rose-colored glasses necessarily cloud his vision so that he cannot accurately portray Mormonism's history. It's a shame that such a logically fallacious tactic (ad hominem) is used to discredit the messenger. If the author is wrong, then the detractor needs to provide evidence. It is poor logic, however, to poison the well by saying his personal views taint his objectivity. <br />Some of the book's stronger and more interesting sections include the comparison of the different accounts on the First Vision story (with excellent charts on pages 16-17); the account of the Mountain Meadows fiasco; a refutation of Smith's so-called \\"Civil War Prophecy\\"; an extensive overview of polygamy during the late 19th and early 20th centuries, mainly found in chapters 13 and 14; and reasons why Mormonism cannot be considered the same as Christianity. I also thought that it was beneficial to have several lists located in the back of the book, including a glossary of Mormon terms and a chart giving numerous failed prophecies from the mouth of Joseph Smith. <br />While I have plenty of praise for ONUG, I do have two complaints. First, there were a number of writing errors (including wrong words or spelling mistakes) that were somehow missed by the editors. This sloppiness needs to be cleaned up in future editions. I was also left scratching my head as I tried to sort out several badly worded sections. Second, although most of Abanes' references are primary sources, he utilizes many Internet resources. Because of the volatility of the Internet and the sudden disappearance of numerous sites, I am guessing that these references will be practically worthless five years from now. I suppose scholars who write books will need to discuss the efficacy and efficiency of the fluctuating Internet citations that can be useful today but are untrustworthy six months from now. Unlike old books, it can be next to impossible to track down old Internet sites.<br />Overall I recommend ONUG for Mormons and Christians alike who desire to have an overview of the history of the LDS Church.  Although I have studied this religion for almost twodecades, I was pleasantly surprised to discover new information. Truly Abanes has done his homework, making ONUG a project well worth sifting through to garner valuable and coherent information. I must say that this is one of the two best overviews of the Mormon religion. (The other? Richard and Joan Ostlings' Mormon America: The Power and the Promise). I therefore give ONUG my highest recommendation.	2002-08-15
US	50079159	R2LDTBTBEAK70J	0842318089	894734344	How Now Shall We Live?	Books	5	10	13	N	N	Excellence in Christian thinking	Chuck Colson and Nancy Pearcey put together a very enjoyable, easy-reading book that the average Christian lay-person should latch onto. I am a full supporter of the authors' &quot;Commitment to Christian Excellence,&quot; which is something I continually preach to my students. Just because we are Christian doesn't mean we have to be dull, mindless, and just plain ol' lousy. This book explains truth using contemporary language and not-too-difficult concepts. In fact, I recommend that pastors refer this book to their congregations.<br />The chapters are written so that, if a person desired, he or she could read one each night in about 15 minutes. At this rate, a person would finish the book within two months and be truly blessed. (I found this method to be effective in my reading, as it allowed me to think through each of the points on a nightly basis.) Among some of the highlights for me:<br />* Ch. 4 on Christian truth in an age of unbelief dealt with Christian apologetics. I especially appreciated the authors' attitude that we will change the world through the laity, not just by the scholars or the pastorate. There is a strong case to Christianity, but each Christian needs to &quot;own&quot; the truth for him or herself to be effective in spreading the gospel.<br />* In part two of the book, the authors deal with creation. While they never claim to be scientists, they present some very strong information while suggesting other places to find additional (deeper) facts. Highly recommended.<br />* Ch. 21 on suffering was one of the easiest chapters I have ever read on such a difficult issue. While there are certainly no easy answers, they do give basic thoughts to theodicy.<br />* Ch. 34 was excellent. I especially appreciate the following quote on page 339: &quot;...local churches need to encourage youth group leaders to go beyond volleyball and pizza parties and begin to teach apologetics and worldview issues.&quot; Amen, Chuck and Nancy. I've been saying this foryears.<br />* A number of chapters in Part 5 dealt with excellence in the arts, music, and literature. We as Christians cannot be the ostrichs of the world because God certainly demands more. The authors point out that, again, if we are going to do something, let's do it well. And let's quit calling subpar performances excellent when they are obviously not. Certainly we all have our own tastes, but it gets dreary to see some of the modern art, music, and literature touted as top-notch when anyone with a tad of taste can sinmply tell that a bridge in Brooklyn is up for sale. As Paul says in Philippians 4:8, let's consider excellence as the only attitude Christians should have.<br />As you can see, I'm up on this book and highly recommend it. Perhaps some of these chapters will stimulate our laity to want to discover truth.	2002-06-25
US	50079159	R2I9OII0V0LJEW	0801012104	981409294	Why I Am a Christian: Leading Thinkers Explain Why They Believe	Books	4	25	25	N	N	Thinking essays about a thinking faith	Too many Christians \\"feel\\" that the exercise of the mind is not important when it comes to the Christian faith. How wrong these believers are! In this day of easy-believism, where the intellect is forsaken for a spiritual diet of cotton candy and bon bons, it is refreshing to know that there are important Christian apologists who make it a point to write thinking pieces such as \\"Why I Am a Christian.\\" Indeed, Jesus Himself said that we are to worship God with our whole heart, soul, MIND, and strength.<br />Although I don't remember seeing if the editors, Geisler and Hoffman, were attempting to respond to Russell's \\"Why I Am Not A Christian,\\" this book certainly serves as a lob back to the atheist's court. Included in the book are essays on truth, God, miracles, the Bible, Jesus, and evil and suffering. Taking some of the better apologists who have already written on the topic at hand, the book's top two strengths were:<br />* William Lane Craig's chapter 4 entitled \\"Why I believe God exists.\\" Using the same arguments that he used in a Willow Creek debate against an atheist in the early 1990s--Kalam, Design, and the Moral arguments--Craig's chapter is solid and is a good reference to utilize when determining strong rational arguments for the Christian faith. I think the following chapter by Geisler was very redundant and not as clear as Craig's. It would have been good had the editor perhaps narrowed his chapter since he commissioned Craig to work with the cosmological and teleological arguments.<br />* Although he offered very little new material, Barry Leventhal's chapter on Jesus as the Messiah was enjoyable to read. The chapter was well-laid out, fully supported, and summarized its points better than perhaps any other chapter in the book.<br />The book's top two weaknesses were:<br />* Beckwith's look at moral relativism. He tries to pack too much into too short of a chapter, and though I admire the man for his brilliant mind, I think he needed more room to complete his thoughts. Geisler does an admirable job with the next chapter (Why I believe Truth is Real and Knowable), but I don't think this issue is still fully resolved with these two chapters. Rather, I would recommend Beckwith and Greg Koukl's book entitled Relativism: Feet Firmly Planted in Mid-Air to get a better look at this important issue.<br />* Chapter 7 regarding the miracles of Jesus was pretty dull and was written with little life. It seemed like Habermas could have simplified his approach with this chapter. The next chapter on divine creation by Hugh Ross had some excellent tables incorporated in it, but truly it just seemed dry. Also, not everyone will agree with Ross' view of the age of the earth--nor with Walter Bradley, a Progressive Creationist who in chapter 10 says on page 168 that the earth is at least 4 billion years old--Ross' ideas about the world being designed would not be quibbled with by the theistic thinker. However, I could see some of the Young Earth folks become offended with these chapters, and I'm wondering if perhaps the other side should have also been represented with an issue that, while important, is peripheral to the essential Christian faith.<br />Overall, I would say that the book as a collection of essays is worthwhile for readers who like to think, but the average lay reader would probably be best served in looking for other avenues, including Handbook of Christian Apologetics (Kreeft) or When Skeptics Ask (Geisler).	2002-06-25
US	50079159	R3Q0R2YECSHY40	0801064120	661813815	Willing to Believe: The Controversy over Free Will	Books	4	25	27	N	N	History of Free Will from the Calvinist side	The Calvinist Sproul takes a historical look at free will as it pertains to Pelagianism, Calvinism, and Arminianism. Overall he does a good job taking a look at such characters as Luther, Calvin, Edwards, and Arminius. However, his Calvinist slant--while I certainly don't disagree with it--certainly is one-sided, and I could see how an Arminian might not like how he takes a one-sided approach. In fact, I would have enjoyed a side-by-side look at the history of free will in conjunction with a thinker from the Arminian side of the aisle. Overall the book was easy enough to read, though certain parts did bog down. My favorite chapter was the last one regarding Dispensationalism, as the material I learned there was very educational. I would say that the more you enjoy history, the more you will enjoy Willing to Believe.	2002-06-25
US	50079159	RM3OPQQE7PEZL	0825427355	117064949	The Battle for God: Responding to the Challenge of Neotheism	Books	5	13	16	N	N	Responding to neotheism	What God knows and when he knows it has become a very hot topic in Christian circles today. It seems to be a common question regarding how much God knows about the future. Does He make things happen? Does He merely know about future events? Or does God, as neotheism so states, limit Himself by not knowing the future, meaning that the future really is up in the air and is contigent on the decisions made by humans?<br />As it can be obviously seen, this is a pretty big issue because how we view God is vital. In fact, the Bible very clearly says it can be very dangerous to have a wrong view of God. Geisler, House, and Herrera show how neotheism is the &quot;new kid&quot; on the block as neotheist theologians have combined aspects of panentheism, or process theology, with traditional theism. It has implications on the way we worship as well as how we view and interpret the scripture. The book takes a look at certain key qualities about God, including His omniscience, eternality, immutability, and sovereignty, and compares the traditional Christian view with the neoorthodox view. Actually, The Battle for God serves as an overview of the attributes of God, so a study in who God is can't be all bad! <br />I like the way that the authors treat this issue with as much simplicity as possible, attempting to show through biblical evidence and historical Christian quotes that neotheism is problematic for the evangelical Christian. It should be pointed out that, in the limited number of pages of a paperback text, the quotes from church fathers are pieced together, so the danger of the context being destroyed is certainly possible, especially since the average reader won't look them up. However, I saw nothing that appeared to be unusual with the people being quoted. The end of each section delves into the neotheists' objections to the texts and their own interpretations. This might be the most valuable part of the book, as Geisler and company show why neotheism is not bibical or hisotrical. <br />Overall I recommend The Battle for God to those who want an evangelical response to what I feel is the problem of neotheism. I'm thinking the debate is far from over. May truth prevail!	2002-05-21
US	50079159	R4LOJCGJR82RD	0310211395	439197302	Jesus Under Fire: Modern Scholarship Reinvents the Historical Jesus	Books	5	9	12	N	N	Combatting the Jesus Seminar with good scholarship	Jesus Under Fire-a book that compiles the efforts of 10 scholars-is the evangelical Christian answer to the 74 \\"fellows\\" of the Jesus Seminar who began meeting in 1985. The Jesus Seminar eventually published The Five Gospels to correct the supposed errors of the four Christian gospels because its fellows do not accept the record portrayed by the gospels, especially any issue dealing with miracles. They claim that less than 20 percent of the red-letter edition of the Bible are words truly spoken by Jesus. The rest is merely legendary. <br />This is a very dangerous claim. If true, then the gospel records cannot be trusted. If the gospels cannot be trusted, then how do we know if anything the Bible says is true? The Jesus Seminar fellows decided to vote out the words they disagreed with, hence giving more authenticity to the Gnostic gospel of Thomas (which has been shown to be 4th century AD in origin) than any of the Bible's gospels. In effect, the Jesus Seminar makes a claim that evangelical Christians who believe in the Jesus of the Bible are accepting a great myth.  <br />My favorite chapters were Craig Blomberg's chapter 1 (Where do we start studying Jesus?), William Lane Craig's chapter 6 (Did Jesus rise from the dead?), and chapter 8 (Jesus outside the New Testament: What is the Evidence?). These were well-written chapters, full of valuable information, and a student of the Bible would be benefited by understanding the points made in these (as well as the other) chapters. <br />If I had any criticism, it was that some information was repeated. For instance, the information on Josephus and his supposed reference to Jesus as the Messiah was talked about in ch. 1 (p. 40), ch. 4 (pp. 105-107), and chapter 8 (pp. 212-213). It seems that this information could have been combined a little better by the editors Wilkins and Moreland. True, too much editing could interrupt the authors' presentations, but these sections were a bit redundant. Perhaps some readers not familiar with this material could be benefited with the reviews in the later chapters.<br />Overall, I really like the information put forth by Jesus Under Fire. Combining some of the best of Christian scholarship to combat the heresies put forth by the Jesus Seminar makes this a book well worth purchasing. I'm glad these gentlemen are on the side of truth to clearly present the facts.	2002-05-21
US	50079159	R2TVUR0IAV6DGM	1576831426	469336444	Playing With Fire: How the Bible Ignites Change in Your Soul	Books	3	12	18	N	N	Not awful, but a bit disappointing	First, let me say that I read this book and Fee's and Stuart's book &quot;How to Read the Bible for all its Worth&quot; in the same month. My analysis: Although they were written in the same style and utilize similar material, I thought &quot;Playing with Fire&quot; was not quite as clear and not as thought-provoking as &quot;Read the Bible.&quot; Truly Dr. Russell is a thinker--I am fully impressed with their Bible program at Biola--and if I had not read &quot;Read the Bible&quot; at the same time, perhaps I would have liked his book more than I did. Russell does utilize some beneficial charts and makes several good points throughout. However, while this book could be beneficial, I hestitate to recommend it when there is a better book on the same subject available to you.	2002-01-04
US	50079159	R1KBX6LE6XA6AA	0801022509	782376113	Introducing Christian Doctrine(2nd Edition)	Books	5	23	25	N	N	Succinct, well-stated theology	My seminary diploma from Bethel has Erickson's signature on it (when he was there back in the 1980's), so I am familiar with this man's work. I studied theology using his Christian Theology text (it was 3 volumes at the time). I love what he has done in this second edition volume of Introducing Christian Doctrine, as he was able to condense his material to fit into 400 pages. He admits in his preface that it was his editor who is reponsible for being able to chop down his work in such a radical way, and I fully understand that the hardest task for a writer to do is to edit down his own work. Anyway, it worked. <br />We are using this text for the first time in our private Christian high school's junior and senior Bible classes. Some students appear to be a little lost, but many are welcoming the challenge to clearer thinking. The book is not &quot;Theology Light,&quot; as another reviewer seemed to suggest, so please don't approach it as &quot;easy.&quot; Good systematic theology takes lots of work, plenty of wrestling with scripture, and many restless nights. But I like the fact that this text is a softer approach (without a complete &quot;dumbing down&quot; of the material) for first-time theology students. (I'd be happy to let anyone know the results by the end of 2002 when we will complete this text.) Also, I like about Erickson's attitude is that, while he certainly has presuppositions, he attempts to fairly lay out the possibilities on issues that certainly divide Christians into separate camps. He gives his opinion, but he doesn't treat it as if anyone who disagrees is a heretic. All in all, Erickson's work gets a thumbs up for those who want an overview on the basic teachings of Christianity.	2002-01-04
US	50079159	R1AI9ENGU2N4VM	0310384915	186621545	How to Read the Bible for All Its Worth	Books	5	121	137	N	N	Hermeneutically and exegetically sound	If you wondered what the words in the title mean, they are longer words to say &quot;proper interpretation.&quot; Of course, you can interpret things any way you want, especially in this Post-Modern day and age. However, not every interpretation is valid and true, as Fee and Stuart point out in their book. Out of the 3 or 4 books that I have read on &quot;biblical interpretation,&quot; this by far is my favorite. It lays down the rules (laws) of proper interpretation by going through the different genres of scripture, with plenty of good advice in how to best exegete each one. So many errors can be avoided if the reader would follow the points made in this book. Sometimes I make the same mistakes that they laid out in their writing, and I found myself a number of times looking up the passages to check their reasoning. <br />It's interesting how so many intelligent people can make the same mistakes (i.e. &quot;I can do all things through Christ who strengthens me&quot; to be misinterpreted because the context is avoided). We Christians need to be better than that, and that's why I want to continue honing my skills in this area. My copy is marked with yellow highlighter marks, and so will yours if you read it with attention. I think every Christian--both young and old--ought to read &quot;How to Read the Bible for all it's Worth&quot;--it's required reading, everyone!--to keep up with the proper usage of handling God's message to His people.	2002-01-04
US	50079159	R2ACU7T0COMCPG	0802800122	993814859	Romans: A Shorter Commentary	Books	5	11	13	N	N	The best layperson's commentary on Paul's deepest work	If you like the systematic way that Paul writes Romans, then you will appreciate Cranfield's treatment here. It's not too technical so as to eliminate the understanding of the average layperson (but you can get the longer commentary if you so choose). I appreciate its referring to other passages and its to-the-point commentary. Truly a pleasure to have in hand as you read through Romans. I highly recommend it!	2001-12-04
US	50079159	R3DFFJEUYCAAT4	1556618190	194834301	The Roman Catholic Controversy	Books	5	33	64	N	N	White displays some major problems of Catholicism	Ask any former Catholic who is now a &quot;Protestant&quot; Christian what he thinks about this book and I bet you will get the same response. &quot;Yes.&quot; Yes, in that there are critical problems with the Mother Church. Yes, in that there are definite theological problems with Marioloatry. Yes, in that the Roman Catholic doctrine, when followed to the letter, cannot lead a person to justification. (Those who are Christians in the Catholic Church are so in spite of their church, not because of it.) <br />Although a most controversial issue, Whites supports his points with well-reasoned argumentation and some thought-provoking material. A committed Catholic may feel that White is merely being intolerant, but I think each person ought to pick up the scriptures and see if his thinking stands the test. Certainly this is not the last word, and there are other good sources on Catholicism from a Christian perspective. But I liked this book and would recommend it to someone who is wrestling with the issue.	2001-12-03
US	50079159	R1BWKIZSXK7M3A	0801020867	601903383	Exegetical Fallacies	Books	4	73	78	N	N	Well worth the effort to utilize this book	As others have said, this book is short, but Exegetical Fallacies is well worth your effort to learn how to properly exegete scripture. Written in a systematic way, I appreciate the work Carson has done. He is obviously a scholar and makes great points, especially on those texts that preachers massacre to make them say something that they really don't. I appreciated the fact that Carson was not only critical with others' interpretations but some of his own as well. I thought that this was admirable.<br />My criticism of this book (why it loses a star) is that there are times Carson could have been so much simpler while still saying the same thing. Several times I had to read and then reread his writing, and still I came away confused. No, it wasn't the use of the original languages that gave me problems, but rather just his manner of using awkward works or saying too much without properly expounding. (Could this have been because he was condensing? Probably.) One example is on pages 51ff regarding the use of agapao and phleo in John 21. I understand his point on page 53, but he (at least in my opinion) was most difficult to follow in these pages. (I'm still scratching my head.) While I'm no scholar, I believe that many average and even above average readers could have been serviced better with a clearer presentation in several parts of the book. But still, the book is worth fighting through, so don't let that discourage you.	2001-12-03
US	50079159	RJH7TQ3F6E63U	0310232171	590997422	Challenge of the Cults and New Religions, The	Books	3	25	32	N	N	A bit simplistic, missing some important info	Ron Rhodes has attempted to write a user-friendly book aimed at overviewing the major cults found in the United States. Certainly this has been done a number of times, including Walter Martin's Kingdom of the Cults which, despite its recent revision, is a little dated. Rhodes writes on such topics as the Mormons, JWs, Scientology (note the paragraph placed at the beginning of this chapter to prevent getting sued by the suit-happy cultists), and even Satanism.<br />One flaw is that much of the information he presents is from second-hand resources. While it is certainly OK to get some information from Christian experts, I'm not quite sure why the author doesn't look up and list the information himself from original sources. It would mean so much more. The bibliography itself is also limited, as I believe he misses out on some very important books written by both Christians as well as those from the individual cults.<br />Rhodes does give easy-to-use charts to illustrate his points, and he includes good, accurate information that appear basic to the individual cult. (I didn't read closely, but what I did look at was fair, honest, and correct.) The book contains two glossy picture sections, which is nice, but I wonder how much this added to the cost of the book. Instead of these pictures, I would have rather had conclusions to each section as well as possible witnessing scenarios and glossary tables. He did this in his other books (&quot;Reasoning With...&quot;), and these ideas seemed to work well. The reader is left hanging at the end of each chapter, and I think Rhodes would have better served his audience by taking this one additional step.<br />Finally, and while not wanting to sound too critical, I'm wondering why he ignored the Boston Movement, which is the International Churches of Christ (not affiliated with the Church of Christ denomination), since it is so prevalent on the college campuses. I would think that information on this contemporary group would havebeen so much more crucial than anything he wrote on &quot;the New Age Movement&quot; (is this a cult?) and the Unification Church (as far as I am concerned, the Moonies are pretty much non-influential in today's America). I also question whether Freemasonry or Satanism are &quot;cults,&quot; and it appears these chapters were saved to the end to fill out the book. While I don't agree with either group, they certainly are not &quot;cults&quot; in the evangelical sense of the word.<br />I would temper my above comments by saying that a person with no knowledge of these groups would be fine with this book, but those who have studied these groups will do better finding works that more concentrate on the individual group. There is nothing new here that could not be discovered in other more detailed sources.	2001-10-10
US	50079159	R1YQWS5W9VR839	1560850892	601843758	Early Mormonism and the Magic World View	Books	5	37	50	N	Y	Strong evidence supporting that Smith was an occultist	The story of Joseph Smith, Jr., the founder of Mormonism, is absolutely incredible. As far as books on the life of Smith are concerned, probably no volume has stirred more overall controversy than D. Michael Quinn's 1987 first-edition book entitled Early Mormonism and the Magic World View. Quinn is a former professor at LDS Church-owned Brigham Young University who was excommunicated in 1993 for apostasy based on his historical writings. His second edition was published in 1998.<br />Instead of trying to deny Joseph Smith's penchant for occultic activities, Quinn-who says he \\"remains a DNA Mormon\\"-concluded that Smith's background truly did involve divining rods, seer stones, a hat to shield his eyes in order to see hidden treasures, amulets, incantations, and rituals to summon spirits. Smith was a magician first class, Quinn believes, but he holds that Mormonism's founder was also a man of God who used his magical tools to communicate with the Almighty God of this universe.<br />To read this book will require plenty of time and careful patience. Early Mormonism is not a book to be rushed through. After all, Quinn is famous for his copious endnotes. The book has 685 pages, and 257 of those pages-close to 40 percent of the book!-are endnotes. (A little more than half of the book is text.) You can't ignore them, though, because he strategically places very important information there. It is also a good idea to consider his sources. Although he lists no bibliography, the endnotes contain the bibliographic information, and if I would guess, I would say that he utilized more than a thousand resources. Unless you look the individual endnote up, you will not know where the reference came from because he usually gives no hint within the text itself. <br />Quinn admits that what he writes in his book is not what readers might find in a brochure given out at an LDS temple open house. \\"Instead, they will discover that the LDS prophet certainly participated extensively in somepursuits of folk magic and apparently in others.... I have found that the `official version' of early Mormon history is sometimes incomplete in its presentation and evaluation of evidence. Therefore, official LDS history is inaccurate in certain respects. ...LDS apologists often do not inform their readers that pro-Mormon sources corroborate the statements made by anti-Mormons\\" (p. xxxviii).<br />Quinn is not happy with attempts by LDS Church revisionists to deny Smith's foray into the occult and folk magic realm around him. While this is the apparent attitude church members have now, it wasn't always like this, he says. The attitude change began in the 1880s, he says, when the last of those in the Mormon leadership who had been familiar with Smith and the occultic practices died. \\"Their successors had more in common with denominational Christianity than with the folk religion of many first-generation Mormons,\\" Quinn writes. \\"It is astonishing how some LDS apologists can misread (or misrepresent) all the above evidence for the magic use of seer stones and divining rods...\\" (p. 59). After noting that BYU biblical professor Stephen E. Robinson denied that these things had anything to do with magic but rather were influenced by the Bible, Quinn is very strong. \\"This is self-parody by an LDS polemicist,\\" he writes in part (p. 60). <br />No matter what your opinion of Quinn is-whether he offends you because he was excommunicated by the Mormon Church, that he is an avowed homosexual, or that he writes historical books that are not what you might call \\"faith promoting\\"-he is not a slouch. <br />Not that I always agree with Quinn. For instance, I don't agree with his idea that the Bible encourages necromancy, magic, dealing with occultic materials, and the like. But when it comes to the facts about how Smith himself was involved in magic, Quinn's historical points are well documented and leave little to debate. <br />I appreciate that Quinn seems to be very honest, wantingto know just what the facts are all about. To do any different is to be a revisionist, and that is just not honest, as Quinn makes this a big point in his criticism of Mormon apologists, especially those who work at LDS-owned FARMS. I give the book a 5-star recommendation, as long as the reader promises to read carefully, slowly, and with a critical mind.	2001-10-10
US	50079159	R16Y8VKZ9RGHD0	0842318178	602863829	Answers to Your Kids' Questions	Books	4	10	11	N	N	Handy reference guide for teens	This format of this book is very similar to what I proposed several years ago but could not get any publisher to buy. Overall Chuck Colson does a good job in taking 100 common questions asked by teens and answering them in short order. There are some questions that I think are weak (i.e. What if I want to be an artist?) while leaving other interesting questions out (i.e. tattoos and music). Also, some of the common questions that teens ask--I know because I am a teacher--received very little space to adequately cover the issue. I understand they were under tight page-limits (an average of only 2 1/2 pages per question), but just a page and a half on knowing God's will? Perhaps the author could have supplied additional resources for each question to help those who would not be satisfied with the brevity of a particular answer.<br />I did like the &quot;Key Points in Brief&quot; at the end of each of the sections, which were broken down quite nicely. These bulleted points helped summarize what was just read. I could see this book being a valuable resource, especially for parents. I am puzzled, though, why the publisher used the word &quot;kids&quot; in the title instead of &quot;teens&quot; or &quot;youth.&quot; &quot;Kids&quot; has a pre-adolescent flavor to it, and when I bought this over the Internet, I didn't expect it to be aimed at teens rather than 8-year-olds. Nobody under 14 would probably pick this up as it would be either too hard or boring for the average &quot;kid.&quot; But I could see an older teen using this, which is why I would suggest a simple word change to the title be made.	2001-09-07
US	50079159	R237F2HGGWXMXI	0515090786	489136755	Letters To Philip	Books	5	15	15	N	Y	One of those oldies but goodies	Letters to Philip is the collection of letters written by a father to his son before his marriage. While some may say this is outdated advice, I would disagree. I'm sure most future wives who read this would agree that they would want their husbands to learn from it. Certainly there seems to be some material you may feel is old fashioned, and I'd agree (i.e. the idea that women do the cooking, men show up for dinner, the traditional models of marriage, etc.). Still, Shedd gives you some food for thought, and having read it through more than three times over the years, has good advice to keep coming back to. I recommend the young man to read this and his future bride to read Letters to Karen.	2001-08-27
US	50079159	R4ZVKIU8R5YUS	0801010500	918276133	Politically Correct Death: Answering the Arguments for Abortion Rights	Books	5	20	25	N	N	Clap clap clap	Dr. Beckwith is one sharp hombre, and this book is a masterpiece. I know of no other books that is able to make such a definitive Pro-life case that this does. If you put the seatbelt on and engage the power source of your mind, he makes complete sense. &quot;Politically Correct Death&quot; ought to end the debate on whether or not abortion is justified. The slippery slope--can anyone say euthenasia and cloning???--created by our political system is costing American society a great deal. May God have mercy on us. For those who are &quot;Pro-Choice,&quot; I challenge you to read this book with an open mind and see if you are able to refute this man's intellectually clear points. Truly this book is recommended to anyone who wants a clearer picture regarding the issue of abortion and ethics.	2001-08-22
US	50079159	RXO4QVCOVXDED	0891077642	352388591	Reasonable Faith: Christian Truth and Apologetics	Books	4	53	63	N	N	Craig is one of sharpest minds around	Having been introduced to Dr. Craig via the video debate that he did with Frank Zindler in 1993 (I have seen the video a dozen times as I have shown this to numerous apologetics classes), I knew that this was a very skilled scholar of Christian truth and apologetics. &quot;Reasonable Faith did not disappoint. From the issues of the existence of God to the resurrection, Dr. Craig deals with a number of important topics that definitely belong in a book like this. He makes the point for his book in the introduction, &quot;Christianity is being attacked from all sides as irrational or outmoded, and millions of students, our future generation of leaders, have absorbed this viewpoint&quot; (xiii). He is absoultely correct in saying that we need to use our minds to fully know and appreciate the God who has revealed Himself to us through His Word.<br />The first chapter, Faith and Reason, was well done as he took a historical look at how previous believers have wrestled with how much reason is needed to have true faith. (Hence, the title of the book.) Without the Holy Spirit, no one would ever become a Christian, he says, and I fully agree. Good things were written here, and I truly appreciated his assessment section as he put everything together. Another thing I liked about this chapter (and the other chapters as well) is that Dr. Craig wrote a short conclusion that gives an application for the believer. This not only serves as a wonderful summary but is certainly very useful for the lay reader.<br />After showing the absurdity of the idea that there is no God in chapter 2, Dr. Craig went to one of his specialities in the third chapter regarding the existence of God. This was a long and sometimes too deep chapter that would probably lose many readers. After reading this chapter, I became confused as to whom Dr. Craig thought his audience was. Was he shooting for more of a lay audience, as his &quot;application&quot; sections seemed to indicate? Or was he going for the moreintellectual crowd, a group that could even include skeptics? I'm not sure, but I found that I had to move slowly through this chapter, and I'm familiar with the points being made. Still, there's a lot of meat here and worth a study. <br />I felt the middle chapters bogged down a bit, with history being emphasized along with the points. Craig Blomberg, though, had an excellent submitted chapter on the historical reliability of the Bible. The last chapter on the resurrection was one of the strongest points of this book, as I think Dr. Craig does as well as anyone reporting on the historicity of the most important event in Christianity.<br />One final comment. I would have liked it had the editor eliminated the conjunctions that began many sentences (but, for, etc.). The book also has too many sentences beginning with the word &quot;now.&quot; Now, I know this is a minor point, but truly it almost became a humorous distraction every time I saw another sentence that began with it. :)  Despite this silly observation, Reasonable Faith is a book I would recommend. Indeed there are few Christian scholars as sharp as Dr. Craig. I challenge an atheist, committed or not, to take up this book and see if Christianity is nonsensible. If he is honest, he will have to admit that there are at least some strong points with the Christian religion.	2001-08-22
US	50079159	R1V7XSAC03QAMV	0840770715	165376748	We Are Driven: The Compulsive Behaviors America Applauds	Books	3	6	9	N	N	Isn't everybody driven?	I thought it was humorous as I read this book to my wife during our 3,000-mile trip. Here we were, two fairly driven people, reading a book aloud and trying to get through all of it before we got home--is that driven or what? And then, we wondered, what about the authors? Were they also not driven people? I thought that perhaps they also had some of the &quot;compulsive behaviors America applauds,&quot; such as workaholism and perfectionism, just to write this book and have a successful nationwide counseling practice. <br />The authors put together chapters that deal with America's common compulsions--the isms. How do you break an addiction  cycle? In part 2 of the book they list 9 points and show how each stage of the addiction cycle works. There were some good things said in these chapters along with exercises to see if you needed help in these areas (i.e. shame, low self-esteem, guilt, etc.). We did have a chance to talk about some things as we read the book, but usually it was off-topic. However, it was good that the book introduced the topic so we could communicate our feelings about personal issues that we deal with. And in several areas, the authors had good advice. It just seemed like most of the advice was to join a support group such as Al-Anon or (Blank) Anonymous, and we just have a hard time with the 12-step programs that they were being glorified in this book. Besides, none of these groups seemed to fit our needs very well. On several occasions we were very uncomfortable when the authors talked about the infamous &quot;higher power,&quot; and while we have no problems with support groups in general, we believe that they should be centered on the true Higher Power, God Almighty, rather than some nameless and anonymous source of power. Perhaps our churches should better emphasize groups like this from a biblical perspective.<br />&quot;We are Driven&quot; could be a valuable resource for many people. If you are someone who is driven, we recommend that you read this with your special someone as it will certainly lead you to talk about some very important issues that affect your lives. These compulsive behaviors always affect other people, so why not deal with it with the most important person you know?	2001-08-22
US	50079159	R1NYT2O2QXEA91	0310232112	179234898	Basics of Biblical Greek Grammar	Books	5	3	3	N	N	User-friendly makes Greek more accessible	I last took Greek in seminary in 1989, a long time to let the cobwebs grow. I was frustrated that I had lost much of my two years of study in the language and decided to get back into it over the summer, retaking a class at the seminary. Mounce's book beats the book that I previously had been assigned, the classic by Machen, hands down. &quot;Basics of Biblical Greek&quot; was easy to use, went in a systematic order, and, while there are certainly some areas that could be better polished, it was quite understandable. I have found myself encouraged to continue on with the language, and I hope to get to a point where I won't need to keep flipping through my lexicon as much. I also appreciated the CD-ROM that was included in the back as it helped me to tackle the vocabulary, just one of those details that needs lots of work if you want to have more fun in the translation. I also suggest purchasing the workbook because it goes hand-in-hand with the book. Don't kid yourself: Greek is not easy. However, it's wonderful to better understand the nuances of our Bible, and that includes the languages. So if you want to learn Greek, I do recommend this book as your introductory text.	2001-08-22
US	50079159	R2XPLR26TDTZRX	0684823144	427675369	Alcoholism and Other Drug Problems	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Amazing statistics	I haven't read the entire book but have skimmed through it. I am amazed at the statistics recorded by the authors and how they are able to show the problems associated with alcohol and drugs from a medical standpoint. The authors treat alcoholism as a disease, which I have no problems with, but this doesn't mean that an alcoholic doesn't have any responsibility. They point out that alcohol-related problems costs our nation more than any other drug. Obviously the number of drunk-driving incidents shows that something is wrong in our culture. <br />I liked a number of things about the book, including the sociological aspects (a great history of alcohol in America is included as well as the cultural groups alcohol has most affected) and the section on  prevention and intervention. Anyone who has been affected by alcohol--whether there is an alchoholic in the family or you yourself are addicted to it--ought to look through this book for a sobering look at what I feel is a genuine social epidemic.	2001-08-22
US	50079159	R2NY1AB5QKAJSU	0310249309	703758896	Ethics: Alternatives & Issues	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Old but useful	Yes, it was written in 1971, and yes, it probably could use a revision (especially in regards to moral relativism), but I like this book. It has some good-thinking chapters in it. For instance, chapter 7 on Hierarchicalism is worth a close read. Geisler goes against the popular notion that all sin is the same. While sin is sin, no doubt, and all sin is rebellion against God's law, I agree with his position that five lustful thoughts are not greater in scope than an adulterous affair. Someone might say, &quot;But Jesus equalled lust with adultery in the Bible.&quot; Did He? Jesus' point in the difficult-to-interpret Sermon on the Mount (Matthew 5:27-30) was not that lust and adultery are equal but rather that we need to be careful if we think we are perfect or even better than someone who has sinned &quot;big.&quot; We have all sinned, Romans 3:23 tells us, and sin has consequences (Romans 6:23; Gal. 6:7-8). For those who use a passage like this to say all sin is equal, the question is what do you do with verses 29-30 if you are going to take this as a literal equalization of two kinds of sin.<br />Geisler deals with tough ethical issues such as this as well as issues of war, sex, birth control and abortion, suicide, and ecology. (A new chapter on bio-ethical issues such as cloning is begging to be written.) While I do not always agree with every position Geisler has in this book--and I wonder how his views might have been changed on abortion since he wrote the book prior to the 1973 Roe v. Wade decision--he makes solid cases for his views and therefore he msut be reckoned with.<br />I am going to look for other Christian books on the issues Geisler deals with and see what others have to say. But if you can get this from a used book source, I would definitely recommend it.	2001-08-22
US	50079159	R290PLOMEWI8A3	0310400910	527938152	Basics of Biblical Greek Workbook	Books	5	34	36	N	N	Needed as companion to the text	If you are going to learn Koine Greek, it's going to take work. Truly Greek is not easy, but it can be done. This workbook will discipline you as you parse words and make translations. The answers are available on the author's website along with other good information. If you want to learn Greek, I do recommend the book and this workbook as your introductory texts.	2001-08-22
US	50079159	RF1RRNFA2IPGK	084993124X	621831611	Christian Counseling:  A Comprehensive Guide	Books	5	33	35	N	N	The best single volume on counseling	My edition is from 1980, but what Collins says in these pages is timeless. He deals with so many different kinds of issues, from personal issues to single/marriage issues and even sex. I certainly don't claim to be a psychologist or counselor, but this book has been a helpful tool to use for reference on a number of issues as I have lived my life and for friends who have been going through a variety of issues. I recommend this for the average Christian layperson.	2001-07-13
US	50079159	R2AOCG0SJIB6BE	0785214232	951399083	30 Days to Understanding the Bible in 15 Minutes a Day!	Books	5	39	39	N	N	Good overview of the Bible	For those who have no experience with the Bible at all, and even for those who have read the Bible through 16 times, this is a good book because it helps you understand the background of the books of Holy Writ. Whether you take 30 days or 3 months, the system is manageable because the lessons are made to be completed in about 10-15 minutes a day. For those wanting to incorporate this into a quiet time, the lessons will force you to become disciplined by writing out some of the basic information presented. Over and over again you practice what you learn. And as a teacher, I find this to be one of the best methods in teaching--learning by doing. By the end of the book, you will be looking Max Anders' name up on Amazon so you can buy other &quot;30 Day&quot; books.	2001-07-13
US	50079159	RPH0DGNOR6PTY	0679724524	683944327	The Apocrypha	Books	5	47	52	N	N	Good readable translation	I have read through Goodspeed's translation, and I thought it was understandable and quite the interesting read. Everyone who values their Bibles ought to see for him or herself what the Apocrypha really says. Of course, none of these books are in the Protestant's canon, not even in the Jewish canon for that matter, but the stories are still fascinating and include important history for several hundred years before and after Christ. Well worth the price for those who are curious.	2001-07-13
US	50079159	R1510BI2MTUYQT	0764224085	927686506	Unshakable Foundations: Contemporary Answers to Crucial Questions about the Christian Faith	Books	4	17	18	N	N	Sharp minds, thinking book	Geisler is a thinker, no question about it. And this book is made for those who are thinkers. Divided into 16 chapters, this book discusses issues that will help Christians obtain an overall orthodox worldview. We have, the authors state, an &quot;unshakable foundation&quot; from which to work, and they do a good job documenting their theistic Christian position. Much of the first half of the book deals with scientific issues, and I have to admit I was a little lost on some of the points (they got a little too deep for my background, i.e. the section on DNA). I do wish they could have simplified it a little more. Also, I am taking a &quot;star&quot; away from this book's rating mainly because most of the information can be found within the pages of the Encyclopedia of Christian Apologetics, an excellent resource book edited/written by Geisler. Having read that as well as the book at hand, I was able to recognize numerous places where whole sections were lifted out and placed here. Bocchino does add some of his own original material, but overall, if I had limited funds, I'd spend a little more money (OK, twice as much money) and get the Encyclopedia as there is so much more there.	2001-06-26
US	50079159	R2KHBCVNCDMFAS	0830718559	557772939	The Habits of Highly Effective Churches: Being Strategic in Your God-Given Ministry	Books	5	9	10	N	N	It will help you see how the church should be run	I am very impressed with Barna's book, as he hits the nail on the head on a number of issues. Based on his research, this Christian pollster shows how the church should relate to the world around it. I am going to go through this again--I highlighted throughout--and write down the main points. I also want to give this book to my pastors, as there are a number of areas my local church could improve. If we want to see God work in our churches, then we need to be smart and use biblical principles and practices. Barna definitely provides us with a solid work here.	2001-06-26
US	50079159	R2L2VFA05ELY8V	080061268X	500478407	Crucifixion (Facets)	Books	4	48	53	N	N	Not to be glossed over but full of important information	Although it is less than 100 pages in length, don't let the size fool you. This book is power-packed with information about the art of Roman crucifixion and how the cross is foolishness to those who perish, in former times as well as today. The book is a translation from German, and as in many translations, the flow seems very uneven, making it hard to keep pace. In addition, Hengel uses plenty of technical terms and refers constantly to other languages, especially Latin and Greek, so some laypeople may have a hard time wading their way through it all as well as the numerous footnotes at the bottom of the page (which sometimes takes up half a page or more). But, if you work hard, you will find a number of excellent items to highlight. In the end you will realize that crucifixion was anything but a bloodless punishment. From the whipping that normally took place beforehand to the way people were stapled onto the crosses, this was torture at its worst. This was the method that the Son of Man paid the ultimate price for our sins. This message is the central theme of the historic Christian faith. Amen.	2001-05-10
US	50079159	R2W6LAL4SBPYZQ	083082250X	637972625	Know Why You Believe	Books	5	21	21	N	Y	Simple enough for every Christian layperson	For the Christian who is scared of &quot;apologetics&quot; because he thinks it means he has to &quot;apologize,&quot; here's a book that doesn't get too technical but has plenty of good information about the defense of the faith. So often Christians don't have adequate answers to give to those who ask of them, as 1 Peter 3:15-16 commands, and so a book like this that is so readable and understandable can provide some ammunition the next time the skeptic questions the faith. Included at the end of each chapter are questions that can be used in a group or individual study.	2001-05-10
US	50079159	R2Y8Z7NUJH7DTG	006063040X	880996105	The Five Gospels: What Did Jesus Really Say? The Search for the Authentic Words of Jesus	Books	1	15	56	N	N	With no basis in fact...	Question: What do you get when you get a group of liberal biblical scholars together to discuss what the historical Jesus really said? Answer: &quot;The Five Gospels.&quot; The group of 72 (I suppose we should consider this a special number since this is how many supposedly translated the Hebrew scriptures into the Greek LXX!) got together over a period of time and &quot;voted&quot; with their emotions and liberal presuppositions, using colored beads to determine what Jesus really said. <br />The result is this book, with its color-coded sections corresponding to the perceived accuracy of the text. What I find most fascinating is that they hold the Gospel of Thomas--the supposed &quot;fifth gospel&quot;--to be a much more accurate portrayal of Christ's words than any of the other gospels. However, the Gospel of Thomas, which can be dated no earlier than AD 140, is a confirmed Gnostic writing, no better than a number of other apocryphal books that have been discovered over the years (i.e. 1945-6 Nag Hammadi literature). (In fact, I wonder, why stop at the Gospel of Thomas? Why not use all of the Gnostic writings? After all, these other books have some pretty unique teachings as well.) <br />Truly if we are going to give authenticity to the Gospel of Thomas, then we should hopelessly dump the rest of the New Testament because the contradictions are immense. For instance, the Gospel of Thomas portrays Jesus as saying that women must resemble males in order to enter the Kingdom of Heaven. This was an obvious Gnostic teaching referring to how the separation of the sexes was responsible for the origin of evil. Such a legendary and obviously slanted idea goes against the rest of scripture (i.e. Gal. 3:28). I have to admit that perusing the Gospel of Thomas can help us understand the state of the heretics in the second century, but it can hardly be compared to the canonical gospels! Overall, my recommendation is to save your money and avoid a book where the authors considered their liberal ideas as more sacred than true history.	2001-04-18
US	50079159	R2LUFPAYKAHU2P	1576737330	89800612	The Prayer of Jabez:  Breaking Through to the Blessed Life	Books	3	61	69	N	N	Reservations about the book, not prayer	I tend to be wary when someone hints that a certain formulaic prayer is bound to catch God's attention. My ears will perk up when that person says this prayer ought to be prayed &quot;every morning&quot; and that a book about this prayer should be &quot;reread once each week for 30 days&quot; (p. 86). While most of the general principles given by the author are quite valid--praying with faith and power--I still have some reservations about this short 92-page book that is sweeping through many evangelical churches. Having personally heard Dr. Wilkinson speak on this topic, I am concerned that many sincere believers will somehow get the wrong idea that God affirmatively answers all prayers offered in the order of Jabez. In fact, one could easily get the impression that God never says &quot;no&quot; to Dr. Wilkinson, and I don't think he really intended to communicate this idea. (Or did he?)<br />The Bible very clearly says that God will answer our prayers according to His will and not according to our personal whims or desires (1 John 5:14). Sometimes God does not give us what we ask for, and that was OK for Paul who claimed to have prayed three times about a &quot;thorn in my flesh&quot; (2 Cor. 12:7); however, Paul was told &quot;no&quot; each time because God's &quot;strength is made perfect in weakness.&quot; Now, with that being said, I want to go on record as saying that I certainly believe in prayer. Christians are absolutely commanded by scripture to pray for blessing, for enlarged territories, for God's hand to be with us, and for staying away from evil. I just hope The Prayer of Jabez doesn't become a magical mantra that is misused by sincere seekers after God.	2001-04-14
US	50079159	RST5EEZG1OIA9	0801038367	280379670	Come, Let Us Reason: An Introduction to Logical Thinking	Books	3	22	29	N	N	Good information, but deep for an &quot;introduction&quot;	Although subtitled &quot;An Introduction of Logical Thinking,&quot; a person will need to be very careful as he/she reads because this is not a skimming kind of book. Keep the highlighter/writing utensil handy to write in the margins! The authors use humor throughout in their attempt to make very difficult concepts more palatable. Some of the jokes were appreciated, and in other places they appeared forced. I think the authors could have simplified some of the concepts a little more--again, it was billed as an &quot;introduction&quot;--but there is no doubt that the information is there for the reading. The study questions at the end of the chapters (with answers in the back) were helpful. Also, I really enjoyed several chapters involving logical fallacies. My main complaint, though, is that the book's overall depth may be difficult for the average layperson to fully comprehend.	2001-04-14
US	50079159	RXYGSTDPEBJTJ	0310209307	938771460	The Case for Christ:  A Journalist's Personal Investigation of the Evidence for Jesus	Books	5	9	14	N	N	Extremely readable for everyone	The Case for Christ gets five stars because, while it deals with many theological issues concerning Jesus Christ, it is not written as a technical theological book. Rather, the former skeptic Strobel asks some of the tough questions that many skeptics pose to Christians every day. Many a Christian has been scared from sharing his faith because he doesn't have all the answers, and that's a shame. <br />The nice thing about this book is that Strobel asks prominent Christian scholars about the authenticity of Christ, His nature, and the veracity of the resurrection. Strobel interviews such greats as Bruce Metzger, Edwin Yamauchi, Gary Collins, D.A. Carson, William Lane Craig, Gary Habermas, and J.P. Moreland. While the aforementioned scholars have all written plenty on their own, many of their tomes are unreadable by the average Christian layperson. But The Case for Christ is not too theological or difficult to understand. In fact, I guarantee that it is very readable for a high schooler because a dozen or so of my 11th grade students have all loved it. I have even considered buying the cheaper paperbacks and taking them around to my skeptic neighbors. (I might just do this in the summer.) I believe anyone with doubts about Jesus Christ will view Him differently after reading this book. The Christian layperson will also benefit by learning answers to support her beliefs (1 Pet. 3:15-16). For these reasons, I highly recommend this book.	2001-04-01
US	50079159	RDDK4M0SUV1SG	0801077664	65496070	Christ Before the Manger: The Life and Times of the Preincarnate Christ	Books	5	9	9	N	Y	I echo the previous writer	OK, what's going on here? I was about to order this book for a friend. It's one that I keep on my bookshelf and reference every once in a while. And it's not in print any longer? I'm not sure why. Rhodes does a good job showing the preincarnate Christ. He supports himself well, and there are a number of interesting appendices to boot. I only wish I could order it, but alas, it's not available. Truly, too bad...	2001-03-21
US	50079159	R2K902DI8IFDBD	0310234697	410592075	The Case for Faith: A Journalist Investigates the Toughest Objections to Christianity	Books	4	116	132	N	N	A good start to answering difficult questions	Lee Strobel has written several good books that could be especially valuable to someone new in the Christian faith. In fact, even older Christians will appreciate the information offered in The Case for Christ and The Case for Faith, both of which nicely complement each other in their easy-to-read style. In The Case for Faith, Strobel--who is a former skeptic--continues where he left off with The Case for Christ. He interviews scholars all over the country, picking their brains for answers to some of the toughest questions out there, including evil, miracles, and &quot;oppressive&quot; church history. Read sort of like a novel, Strobel introduces each chapter by mixing in interesting crime/court stories he gathered during his investigative reporter days for a Chicago newspaper. Sometimes, though, his writing is a little melodramatic, as there were several times I became annoyed with his overuse of neon yellow adjectives. Otherwise, I thought the novelistic style helped make the book a quick read. While the average reader should not need more than 6-8 hours with this book, if he/she reads carefully, much can be learned about answers to some pretty difficult questions. Overall I recommend The Case for Faith for its apologetic value. Deeper material can certainly be gathered in other places, including the little more detailed &quot;When Skeptics Ask&quot; (Geisler) and the much more detailed &quot;Encyclopedia of Christian Apologetics&quot; (Geisler). As a beginning book, though, The Case for Faith works well.	2001-03-14
US	50079159	R1IG8CYC2MK9AN	0802428789	506812216	From God To Us: How We Got Our Bible	Books	5	31	32	N	N	Still in print after all these years	Geisler and Nix write what might be considered to be a classic on textual criticism. It is not impossible to read and should be understood by the average layperson who is not frightened of reading. They deal with everything from inspriation, canonicity of both the OT and NT, the major manuscripts, and translations of the Bible. It's probably as good an overall view of textual criticism as there is out there. With no updates since its original 1974 printing, and since the authors are still alive, I would challenge them to update the book for future generations, especially since there have been some new finds and translations made during the past quarter of a century. Updating shouldn't be that hard to do, and they would help preserve a valuable book for the years to come (when they are no longer around). If you have ever had anyone criticize the Bible (&quot;how do we know it's translated correctly?&quot;), this might be a good place to start to get some answers.	2001-02-06
US	50079159	R34JHHBTUJV4GU	0801021820	954581406	Christian Theology	Books	5	19	22	N	N	My favorite systematic theological set	I have the 3-volume set of Erickson's work, and it is the one I utilize first when looking for background on a particular issue or doctrine. Erickson is evangelical, orthodox, and even fair. He shares different perspectives on an issue, though he will let you know what his conclusion is. In addition, he is very clear about his points and is not impossible to understand, unlike some books out there can confuse more than enlighten. Erickson deals with every issue you would expect a systematic theology book to discuss. You may not agree with everything he says, but then again, is there anyone you would agree completely with? I recommend this as a valuable tool.	2001-02-06
US	50079159	R33B05GWT2VQ6	083081258X	293307629	The Canon of Scripture	Books	5	12	15	N	N	Scholarly with plenty of resources	Bruce is a great biblical scholar, and The Canon of Scripture is an excellent book. He deals with the historicity/veracity of both the Old and New Testament documents and why our Bible can be trusted today. Not a book to be skimmed, Bruce concentrates on early church history, showing the background of how our Bible came to be, all the way through the age of printing. His conclusion and 2 appendices are also very valuable. I might suggest &quot;From God to Us&quot; by Geisler/Nix as well as Bruce's &quot;Are the New Testament Documents Reliable?&quot; as additional sources. I am glad to have read this book and have a better understanding of textual criticism.	2001-02-06
US	50079159	RKKG1SX4CT6E8	1565077210	576464819	The Complete Book of Bible Answers	Books	4	11	12	N	N	Would be good for the average layperson	Not meant to be scholarly by any means, Rhodes writes this book for the common man, the average Christian who needs answers to typical biblical questions. And if I am correct in assuming his objective, then I would conclude that he succeeded. He raises numerous issues, from sin to the future as well as apologetic issues. Certainly the answers are tainted with his personal bias, but that's the privilege you get when you are the author. However, certain topics (i.e. eternal security) will be disagreed upon by other Christians, and perhaps the fact that Rhodes does not honestly evaluate both positions on these controversial issues within the Christian body would be the book's sole drawback. Also, the answers are generally very short--probably good for many laypeople--which means they are not very deep. Perhaps he could have provided resource material at the end of some questions so a person could do further research. To call the book &quot;The Complete Book of Bible Answers&quot; might also be a little misleading, as a 400-page paperback book written in 12-font type should not be considered &quot;complete.&quot; Oh well. Overall it's a book worthy of purchase and to be used as a resource.	2001-01-31
US	50079159	R3HO4PCPEJMNPX	0876288913	967725585	School Newspaper Adviser's Survival Guide (J-B Ed: Survival Guides)	Books	5	37	38	N	N	The only book of its kind	Having been a high school newspaper adviser (notice, &quot;adviser&quot; and not &quot;advisor&quot;?) for 8 years, I am like the other reviewer who wishes this book would have been available much earlier. As it is, my first year of teaching in 1993 included four preps: English 10 Honors, English 9, newspaper, and yearbook. (Anybody want to say &quot;Year of Insanity&quot;?) While I did survive, I struggled that year because the resources for publication advisers are very few. Starting almost from scratch and given very little in support, I ended up putting together my own bound journalism resource book, which is similar in many ways to Osborn's work. But the &quot;Survival Guide&quot; I bought last year is still worthwhile for me to have on hand because it has a number of &quot;cool&quot; sheets that can be photocopied. (Kudos for the wire spine that make turning pages and laying them on the photocopier simple!) Only those who have advised high school publications can fully appreciate the words of wisdom Osborn has because she has obviously been there, done that. Every principal should order a copy for the school's journalism teacher. I certainly plan on utilizing mine in the years to come.	2001-01-31
US	50079159	R3E207WG43L8S7	0823925862	814798674	The Illustrated Encyclopedia of Active New Religions, Sects, and Cults	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Take out a second mortgage to buy it	It's a 500-page book, and it has many excellent articles inthis encyclopedia... I bought this to use as a reference to add to other books on the topic. Most of the articles in this encyclopedia are very short--a pargaraph is the norm for each group it discusses--but several go into further detail, such as articles written on the Children of God and the Unification Church. For a Christain perspective that goes into more detail, I might recommend either The Compact Guide to World Religions (Halverson, Bethany House) or Encyclopedia of Cults and New Religions (Ankerberg/Weldon, Harvest House). These are much better values than this.	2001-01-31
US	50079159	RE0RSZAOT24D4	0764552260	143378471	Resumes For Dummies (Resumes for Dummies, 3rd ed)	Books	5	17	18	N	N	Worth its weight in future paystubs	If nothing else, this book is beneficial because it gives the reader lots of ideas to borrow (Ok, steal, but that's why this book was written). I'm not very creative when it comes to laying the resume out, but the different possibilities gives me some options. It's important to not be too wordy in the resume, and Kennedy shows us what to emphasize. Her snappy writing style makes a mundane topic actually interesting. It's nice to know that I have this on my shelf in case I decide to go job-hunting in the future.	2001-01-31
US	50079159	R7TWIZQ6E04NZ	0310385512	376822796	Charts of Cults, Sects, and Religious Movements	Books	5	28	29	N	N	Worth the money for checking out nonorthodox groups	House goes over 19 different quasi-Christian religions and, although I have not read very much yet, initial appearances show that he appears to have done a very nice job. He lists the different viewpoints of these religions and then contrasts them with &quot;Orthodox&quot; Christianity. He uses original sources to support himself so that it's not just his opinion, but rather the opinion of the group's leaders. Certainly some may come in and disagree about certain nuances regarding the way he lays out the orthodox position (i.e. a Catholic or Greek Orthodox layperson may not see eye-to-eye on salvation and justification through faith alone), but House gives verses from the Bible to support himself. He also uses expert resources to check his work and make sure his arguments were not faulty. I will keep this reference near-by, and when I have a question about a particular group's teaching, I will be sure to see what this has to say. <br />I do have two complaints: First, the book is so big (350 pages, 8.5 x 11 format) and, with the pages getting flipped back and forth, I'm scared the spine may not hold out. I'm wondering why the publisher didn't use a metal ring spine to make it easier to lay the book flat and help it withstand the constant paging back and forth. Also, what about the Boston (discipleship) movement? I would have liked material on this growing group. However, I can't lessen my recommendation of the book despite my complaints.	2001-01-29
US	50079159	R1GMAIQJOB10FY	1558193596	20612189	Holman Book of Biblical Charts, Maps, and Reconstructions	Books	5	64	65	N	N	Awesome color charts--a valuable teaching tool!	As a teacher of the Word of God, I love using charts that help the visual student see what I am talking about. And in this chart book, which is completely done in color (visually very appealing), both the Old and New Testaments are covered, including maps and reconstructions of historically significant times and places. I am planning to lead a trip to the Holy Land this summer, and I'll probably have this book with me when we tour the places reconstructed here. The wire spine is appreciated because it makes it easier to turn the pages and lay the pages flat when making overheads. All in all this book is a &quot;quality&quot; production, and I can only say &quot;well done!&quot;	2001-01-29
US	50079159	RS9XTIU1F4ZXZ	0310416612	994663106	Charts of Christian Theology & Doctrine	Books	5	59	63	N	N	Great reference material	I am looking at some of the other reviews, and 4 of the 5 people who have responded have criticisms of this book because they apparently felt that House did not accurately portray their pet doctrine or church. I'm guessing that in a chart book like this, the author will never be able to please every single reader. What I like about this is that the material is simple to understand, and in just a few pages, House adequately summarizes a doctrine and the views Christians have on it. For instance, if you wanted to better understand the issue of Calvinism vs. Arminianism, House gives views from both camps. He doesn't tell you what to believe. Certainly if you rest on one side, you might feel like he &quot;missed&quot; important points that could have been made. But this chart book was not meant to be an exhaustive resource that would relieve you of further research on your own. The author merely meant this to be a starting place, to better understand the various views. Maybe this will help a person better sort through an issue and to come to a conclusion about which view is the most biblical and therefore accurate. I have used these charts in explaining different doctrines (i.e. the Trinity). It's worthy of the investment.	2001-01-29
US	50079159	R2XJ15UCBFVB5E	1568843852	944794070	Home Buying For Dummies	Books	5	11	12	N	N	As complete a book on home-buying that I've seen	I bought this book several years ago when I decided to baptize myself into home ownership...for the first time. There was a great price on a fixer home in SoCal. I purchased this book after going to a bookstore and perusing some 20 or so titles. Choosing this, I was not disappointed. The authors don't talk down to you, but rather offer valuable advice and make good sense. In addition, using some ideas from the book, I was able to work with my realtor in lowering the price over a month of negotiations by almost 10 percent. Today, 3 1/2 years later, my house has practically doubled in value (after labor and $ on my part, though). Still, the investment is certainly worth it. No more rent being flushed down the toilet. The old American Dream. (Instead of the white picket fence, though, we opted for chain link.) In addition, the cartoons are a hoot. It's nice to be able to laugh while you prepare to sign your life away!	2001-01-27
US	50079159	RZ6YSJ8ONAGNP	0849952751	892115501	A Father's Legacy: Your Life Story in Your Own Words	Books	5	19	20	N	N	Not a book to be read but to be written	We gave one of these books to my wife's father about a year before he went home to be with the Lord. Battling cancer, he was faithful to journal in it on a regular basis. We visited him several Christmases ago, just a month before he ended up dying. And he left this book to his six children. We made photocopies of the pages, and it remains a precious memory for each child. In fact, it's one of the best reminders of him that we own. Memories and photos fade, but a book like this will last your lifetime and into the next, for sure. What a wonderful way to leave something for the next generations who want to get in touch with their roots. The prompts are varied and draw out different responses. A completed book is fun reading too, even if you hardly know the person. Surely this is better than any fictional account of a nonexistent life. I recommend this as well as the version for moms. You just never know when it is your time to shuffle off into the horizon. In my opinion this book is just as valuable as a $1 million life insurance policy.	2001-01-27
US	50079159	R1UPIJS9Y8YW2X	0764220934	497985831	If I Could Ask God One Question	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Perhaps too simplistic	Greg Johnson has written a number of books on the subject of teens, as he has 20 years experience. And I don't want to take anything away from his ministry. However, while he covers a very broad assortment of questions in this book, he stays on the surface and doens't dig very deep. Most questions are answered in a page or two, and I just don't think you can adequately deal with some of the questions he introduces. In fact, he spends only 184 pages answering 80 questions, and some of the pages are the second pages of a chapter, with only a paragraph on these pages.<br />Perhaps he should have narrowed the number of questions so he could have dug a little deeper. I would have also liked additional resources at the end of each chapter (for futher digging). As someone who works with high school teens, I know that the way they think goes much deeper than what this book has to offer. Perhaps it is better suited to pre-teens and early teens, but the 16 to 18-year-old audience that I work with wants more. Finally, a book like this--with such a great title as it has--needs to be better organized. There are no table of contents or index. I suppose the way to find a particular question is to mark up your book on your own. Truly, if Johnson could find a way to better organize a future book with more details in the answers, I know many teens who would truly buy it.	2001-01-03
US	50079159	R369EOCGZUTK2W	0764221981	659539617	Chosen but Free	Books	4	147	163	N	N	Not an issue that will just go away	The differences between Calvinism and Arminianism have been debated even before Calvin and Arminius. From Augustine to Pelagius to now Geisler and White, the issue of sovereignty versus free will has been debated. In fact, to say that this is an emotionally-charged issue is, quite frankly, an understatement. Geisler, a scholar who has written many of the books sitting on my shelves, attempts to take a moderate position. He &quot;chooses&quot; the best of Calvinism and mixes the ideas with some of the more appealing Arminian ideas. Needless to say, this formula has pretty much riled up the Calvinists (look at all the one-star reviews written before mine, which is not only unkind but truly unfair), and, in an uncanny way, made the Arminians rejoice. They apparently are touting this book as a complete refutation against Calvinism, yet do they they fail to see that Geisler in effect refutes Arminianism in its pure form? Such an interesting dual reaction!<br />Several things ought to be known when reading this book:<br />1) Realize that this is not the last word on the issue. The first cannon shot back was fired by Calvinist James R. White in The Potter's Freedom, who it must be acknowledged did point out several problems with Geisler's view. It too should be read to get a more complete picture. 2) Whether you consider yourself a Calvinist or Arminian, you ought to take an &quot;open view&quot; when reading this book first (and then Potter's Freedom). Try to leave your presuppositions at the door and let the writers do their best to convince you of their positions. 3) Realize that The Potter's Freedom enjoyed the &quot;last word&quot; on this subject as it had the chnace to attack Geisler's views without a chance of rejoinder. Therefore, I call upon both James White and Norman Geisler to come together for the last segment of a &quot;trilogy&quot; and put together a book that gives a chance of response for each position. This would be more fair. 4) Above all, let Christian charity reign. We have too many battles out there--a world that needs Jesus, whether you are Calvinist or Arminian--to spill so much blood on what has to be considered a secondary, or peripheral, issue. Sure, this issue is very important, but which camp would say that they cannot fellowship with those who belong to the other &quot;side&quot;? Please, let's not turn this issue into the defintion of what makes a person a Christian.<br />Again, I recommend that the two books are read and debated in your own mind and within your own circles. If you are like me, this will require you to do some very heady thinking. Geisler and White may certainly stretch many of your preconceived notions, if you will allow them to do so. And I think you will be a better Christian for it.	2000-12-23
US	50079159	RSM3F3KNWDMXI	1879737434	350819627	The Potter's Freedom: A Defense of the Reformation and the Rebuttal of Norman Geisler's Chosen But Free	Books	4	72	95	N	N	A hot topic for the times	The differences between Calvinism and Arminianism have been debated even before Calvin and Arminius. From Augustine to Pelagius to now White and Geisler, the issue of sovereignty versus free will has been debated. In fact, to say that this is an emotionally-charged issue is, quite frankly, an understatement. White is a good apologist who has served the Christian community well with his exegetical books on issues from Mormonism to the Trinity. He attempts to answer the points made by Norman Geisler, a scholar who has written many of the books sitting on my shelves, in Chosen But Free. Geisler had chosen the best of Calvinism and mixed the ideas with some of the more appealing Arminian ideas. Needless to say, this formula has pretty much riled up the Calvinists (including White) because they resent his calling his position a &quot;moderate&quot; Calvinist view. To White and others like him, it's an all-or-nothing proposition. (I guess to have this as a rock-solid premise means that there's never any middle ground on an issue. For instance, should the Bible always be read literally or symbolically? Could there perhaps be a middle ground depending on the context of the passage?) Regardless, White's position is that Geisler's system is severely flawed.<br />Several things ought to be known when reading Potter's Freedom:<br />1) Whether you consider yourself a Calvinist or Arminian, you ought to take an &quot;open view&quot; when reading Geisler's book first and then Potter's Freedom. Try to leave your presuppositions at the door and let the writers do their best to convince you of their positions. 2) Realize that The Potter's Freedom enjoyed the &quot;last word&quot; on this subject as it had the chnace to attack Geisler's views without a chance of rejoinder. Therefore, I call upon both James White and Norman Geisler to come together for the last segment of a &quot;trilogy&quot; and put together a book that gives a chance of response for each position. This would be morefair. 3) Above all, let Christian charity reign. We have too many battles out there--a world that needs Jesus, whether you are Calvinist or Arminian--to spill so much blood on what has to be considered a secondary, or peripheral, issue. Sure, this issue is very important, but which camp would say that they cannot fellowship with those who belong to the other &quot;side&quot;? Please, let's not turn this issue into the defintion of what makes a person a Christian.<br />Several minor complaints about Potter's Freedom. White likes to gather quotes from Christian leaders and influential thinkers and put their comments on the back cover as well as on several inside pages. This book includes more than 30 quotes from people such as Jay Adams, George Grant, and Daniel Wallace. Despite having used Geisler's blurbs for several other of his back covers, for some reason White does not include Geisler's recommendation on Potter's Freedom. (I wonder what Geisler would have written?) Perhaps White forgot to ask Geisler to write a blurb for this new book. In all seriousness, perhaps White ought to ask Bethany House (his usual publisher who, quite ironically, put out Chosen But Free) to delete Geisler's blurbs in future editions of White's books, as they look out of place now in light of Potter's Freedom.<br />One other suggestion: Although this does not make his position right (or wrong, for that matter), the typeface of The Potter's Freedom is very difficult for older eyes to read. For some reason, it was printed too light--it needs to be much darker with a different, more readable font. Also, there were at least a dozen grammatical/spelling errors that I caught. The next edition needs the perusal of a quality editor, something White has over at Bethany House.<br />Restating my position, I recommend that you read the two books and debate the issues in your own mind and within your own circles. If you are like me, this will require you to do some very heady thinking. Geisler and White may certainly stretch many of your preconceived notions, if you will allow them to do so. And I think you will be a better Christian for it.	2000-12-23
US	50079159	R1EZ601JI9UT3D	1576830160	799449705	Love Your God with All Your Mind: The Role of Reason in the Life of the Soul	Books	4	72	76	N	N	Christians, take note: Our mind is our friend	Moreland does the Christian community a favor by writing this book, which could have easily been entitled, &quot;Using Our Christian Mind in a World That Doesn't Want us to Think.&quot; Unfortunately, I have seen too many Christians pooh-pooh the concept of &quot;loving God with all your mind&quot; and instead focus on the &quot;heart and soul.&quot; I just heard someone say, &quot;The only thing that's important is loving Jesus.&quot; What does that mean? For her, it is pretty much forgetting anything intellectual. To reach her goal of worshipping Jesus, she apparently desires to continually sing worship choruses and read fluffy sections of the Bible every day. This is a dangerous trend in our evangelical Christian society today where, for many, nothing but good feelings matter. (And when you don't have &quot;good feelings,&quot; does this mean God has stopped loving you? Or that you no longer love God? And how am I supposed to think of these things if my mind really doesn't matter? The problems with shutting down the mind are endless.) <br />As Moreland points out, all aspects of our heart, soul, and mind play a role in the true worship of an all-holy God. He does a great job giving reasons why we need to make sharpening our intellect a priority. God has given us brains, so why should we not use them? At the same time, this does not put the mind at the top of our priorities and relegate everything else to a secondary status. I think Moreland tries really hard to show that he wants to avoid a Gnostic mentality. (I see some reviewers before me did not see this, but c'mon, give a break here. The entire premise of his book is stressing how the mind has taken a second-class status with too many Christians. What else was Moreland supposed to stress?)<br />My only complaint is that the book does bog down in several areas. For instance, I don't think it was important in the heart of his book to take five pages and dedicate them to giving a &quot;brief lesson in logic.&quot; I've studied logic, but I predict that these five pages would confuse the average layperson. Instead, he should have simplified such a section or else eliminated it and referred the reader to additional resource material. For this and several other &quot;bogged down&quot; areas, I might hesitate giving this book to someone who might be an &quot;average&quot; thinker, even though I might want to convince him that he needs to &quot;love God with all his mind.&quot; The book's English is also choppy in several areas and could use a good revision. If we're trying to convince the Christian church, we need to realize that much of the population is currently feeding on sugar-coated eschatalogical &quot;rapture&quot; literature and other fictional nonsense. We don't need to scare them away from thinking--perhaps I'm off track, but I'd love to see a simpler book written for &quot;Joe Christian&quot; at 1st Baptist. Either that or revise this. Except for these minor complaints, I love this book. It proclaims 1 Peter 3:15-16 and says what I've been both thinking and preaching. Thus, every Christian, including church leaders and pastors (yes, even &quot;senior&quot; pastors!--see the last chapter), needs to study Moreland's challenge to the church.	2000-12-23
US	50079159	R3RBA4UHIY2P0V	1578660882	245894616	The New York Times Page One: One Hundred Years of Headlines As Presented in the New York Times	Books	5	2	4	N	N	Interesting to go through the past century	I received this as a present from one of my journalism students, and I really enjoy flipping through it. It's a coffee-table book of the major stories of the 20th century, and what a fun flip it is. I also enjoy the journalism aspect, as the style and layout changes over the decades are shocking. I wonder what the 2097 New York Times front page will look like--perhaps we will be printing the papers out on our own printer each morning, who knows. Anyway, this is a fun book for those who like a little history to go with their morning newspaper...and you don't have to be from New York to enjoy it.	2000-12-19
US	50079159	R2JI5QKH3I2PVS	1577482646	292882269	My Utmost for His Highest (Essential Christian Library)	Books	5	10	12	N	N	A devotional worth having	Of course, there's no substitute for having a devotion with the Word of God itself. But, right after this, one of the best things to help jumpstart your devotional is a good devotion book. My Utmost for His Highest is an obvious classic that you ought to consider. I personally have gone through it in three different years (the last time, 2 years ago), and I am considering it for the year 2001. Chambers has some keen insight that needs to be considered. If you struggle with mere reading through the Bible as your devotion, then perhaps this might be the ticket to beginning a daily commune with the God of all creation.	2000-12-17
US	50079159	R1VHE5T2RZRGCG	0745916252	666546087	The History of Christianity (A Lion Handbook)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	The most user-friendly Christian history book	There are numerous boring Christian history books on the marketplace--enough to make anyone fall asleep at night. For some reason, my seminary professors always seemed to pick this kind of book for us to read in the church history classes. When I came across this 700-page book several years ago, I was more than happy to add it to my personal library on church history (a topic on which I own a dozen volumes). Beginning in the time period of Josephus and moving through the 20th century, the book's articles are crisp and well-written by a variety of authors. In addition, sidebar stories make turning each page an adventure. Numerous drawings and pictures are printed throughout, making it very layout friendly. I would ask the publisher to consider republishing this book. It's worthy of ownership, even if you have to find it on the used market.	2000-12-17
US	50079159	R3SK6J02XPFMUL	1565633652	152429991	Heresies: Heresy and Orthodoxy in the History of the Church	Books	5	25	30	N	N	A goldmine on just where those false doctrines came from	You won't have to be a history nut to understand Brown's book. This is by far the best book I have ever read on the origin of false teachings. It shouldn't be a surprise, but the many heresies come straight from the 2nd-5th centuries. In effect, there is nothing new under the sun. This is why we need to know our history, because so many people end up repeating the early errors. Brown is especially effective in his sections on the Trinity and Arianism. It is fascinating to see the details that Brown is able to report. Finally, I am sad to see that the current publisher has let Heresies go out of print so soon after its 1998 reprinting. Trust me, the book is worth having, even if you need to find it used. It is worthy having as a reference, and if you are like me, you will need a highlighter to keep you company as you read it.	2000-12-17
US	50079159	R2RZW9UM2XIHM4	0849942128	875691804	The Gospel According to the Apostles	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Effectively deals with cheap grace	First, I should point out that one of my all-time favorites--The Cost of Discipleship by Dietrich Bonoeffer--is in the same mold as MacArthur's book. I highly recommend it. As far as The Gospel According to Jesus, I was impressed with his exegesis. I believe that he is right on. Christians ought to understand that they have been provided a gift, and the idea of sanctification is not just an option but imperative. Certainly we cannot earn the grace of God, but neither do we prove God's grace by sinning like hell. This is the message MacArthur effectively communicates in this book.	2000-12-17
US	50079159	R2L0DPAX48D87F	0380603926	742020309	When Bad Things Happen to Good People	Books	4	18	19	N	N	Very much worth a read	Although I do not share Kushner's Jewish belief system, he asks the same questions we all have. Why? Why me? Why now? etc. While his presuppositions are different from mine as an evangelical Christian, I still think he lays out some worthy bones to chew on, making you think through your personal theology and ideas of who God is and just why it is that bad things happen to good people. Another book readers might want to look at is C.S. Lewis' 1940 work entitled The Problem of Pain. A comparison of the two authors, one Jewish and the other a Christian, might interest some who take this issue very seriously and are willing to stretch their own viewpoints.	2000-12-17
US	50079159	R1ZTULGZWZ3F83	0671683063	920213671	The Book of Virtues:  A Treasury of Great Moral Stories	Books	5	13	22	N	N	Great stories compiled into one volume	Bennett takes some of the most charming short stories and poems and puts them together in a book that is wonderful to pull off the shelf. (No need to read the whole book, just a story or two at a time.) Right now my 7-year-old daughter is in love with the book, and she loves to read stories before she goes to bed. I started to read to her from this books last year, and she just  gets a kick out of the moral lessons she learns. From The Tortoise and the Hare to other familiar (as well as not-so-familiar) tales, this has to be a classic. I wonder if there is any chance Mr. Bennett would consider returning to public service?	2000-12-17
US	50079159	R8JSYKHI8XX6Q	0890819831	24973850	The Islamic Invasion: Confronting the World's Fastest Growing Religion	Books	3	8	15	N	N	Much too simplistic	Morey attacks a very deep and complex subject in the simplist of ways. His less-than-200-page book thus becomes much too shallow to be useful. Even the title comes off as being offensive, as too many Americans stereotype Muslims as being evil terrorists and worthy of death. I personally know some Muslims who don't need death but rather a living relationship with Jesus Christ. I appreciate Morey's vigor but cannot recommend his book. Instead, if you are truly interested in the topic, I might recommend Norman Geisler and Abdul Saleeb's 1992 book entitled &quot;Answering Islam.&quot; It provides more than just information on the topic because it deals with how to effectively answer Muslim objectives to Christianity in a nonoffensive manner.	2000-12-17
US	50079159	R2N5AYSFRDK74M	1565631366	330809260	The Temple: Its Ministry and Services	Books	5	4	5	N	N	The purpose of the temple	I have only read sections of this book, but what I have read are excellent in their complete description of the Jewish temple. From the layout of the temple to the implements used, Edersheim fully explains why the temple was even needed and the ceremonies performed by the priests. I plan a return trip to the Holy Land in the Summer of 2001, and I will be bringing this book with me to read closer in my desire to fully understand this place. As we know, the conflict in Israel stems mainly from the holiness of this site, held by both Jews and Christians today.	2000-12-17
US	50079159	REOUA5A6HSAVE	0801038596	326738463	Answering Islam: The Crescent in Light of the Cross	Books	5	13	15	N	Y	Best Christian response to Islamic belief system	I visit a local mosque twice a year where I have gotten to know the imman and another leader. They are the nicest of people who welcome me and my students with open arms, hoping we can experience Islam close up. So often we Americans have the idea that all Muslims are terrorists and evil people. This is not so. Unfortunately, however, while my Muslim friends are very sincere that Allah is God and Muhammad is his prophet, they are sincerely wrong. We have had a number of conversations about the truth of Christianity, and they have many misunderstandings that Geisler and Saleeb address in this book which is, in my opinion, the only Christian book you will need on the subject. The authors are very thorough in their research, and I can tell that Saleeb probably had a lot to do with this since he comes from this faith and has studied it intensely. What I like about the book is that it does more than merely explain Islam. Rather, it gives a defense to Muslim teachings and shows the Christian how he can answer the many Muslim objectives to such issues as the Bible, Jesus and Trinity, and salvation through the blood of Jesus. If you want to better understand the world's largest and fastest growing religion from a Christian point of view, this is certainly the book.	2000-12-17
US	50079159	R2ZYZWXJBJF1I	0736900497	742706174	What Did Jesus Mean? Making Sense of the Difficult Sayings of Jesus	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Better resources are available	Rhodes is quite prolific, and I appreciate his research and many works that he has published. This, unfortunately, is not his best. He attempts another version of a book he already wrote (&quot;When Cultists Ask&quot;) and comes away with not much more than what he already had and what many others have done before him. He has taken some hard-to-interpret passages and exegetes them for a lay Christian audience. While he tries his best to give both viewpoints in a verse's interpretation, there is no doubt that his conclusion is tainted with his personal belief system. So, if you don't agree with him, I suppose that you will feel like he left your position on the short end and almost ignored. While there should be room for personal opinion, I guess I didn't feel he always adequately presents both cases. Can someone say straw man? <br />Rhodes attempted to differentiate his book from others on this subject (i.e. When Critics Ask or Hard Sayings of the Bible). Those other books tackled the tough passages in a chronological Bible order. Rhodes decided to cover the verses in subject order. This, I believe, makes What Did Jesus Mean? very difficult to navigate. However, I will say that I will keep the book on my shelf next to others like it, utilizing it when looking for another opinion on a controversial passage. This, by itself, makes it a book worthy of purchase.	2000-12-16
US	50079159	R3ML85FWSY5QBR	0687014786	633926784	Handbook of Denominations in the United States (10th Edition)	Books	4	28	31	N	N	The best source on the subject	I will have to agree with most of the reviewers who have written before me. Yes, Handbook of Denominations is a wonderful resource, and it is the only book of its kind as far as I am concerned. Therefore, it is quite handy to have in a person's library. However, I dropped a star from its rating because some of the articles are so inadequately short, they just beg for additional information and explanation. There is also a lack of uniformity between many of the articles.<br />What can we expect, though, when the book is trying to be all things to all people? With the book covering such a variety of denominations (as well as nonChristian sects, such as JWs, Mormons, and Christian Science), it would probably be impossible to be too indepth and still have a marketable product that would remain affordable (as the current edition is). What do I know, though, because it made it to its 10th edition? How many books can say the same! Perhaps, though, someone in the future would want to create a more user-friendly edition (with graphs and charts) and eliminate the fringe groups or mere nonChristian world religions (such as Judaism). Leave these faiths to a separate volume or to other authors (yes, numerous books on these groups have already been done). If you then dedicated 3-5 pages to each major denomination (100,000 or more members) and 1-2 pages to denominations 10,000-100,000 in size, making it more user-friendly, you might make us 4-star partial skeptics into 5-star full-on believers.	2000-12-16
US	50079159	R2ZAAFQ1LTPTV2	0802847781	989390128	Paul Apostle of the Heart Set Free	Books	5	47	53	N	N	Welcome to the world of the chief apostle	If ever there was a complete work of the apostle Paul, this is it. And it is written by no less an expert than one of the 20th century's foremost Christian scholars, F.F. Bruce. Now that it's in paperback, every Christian ought to examine it for himself. The problem is, we're such a light-hearted fictional society (yes, I'm talking about us Christians) that many might never touch this book with a 10-foot pole. There's not enough plot to it, I can hear someone say. (Are you kidding? Who could have lived any fuller a life than Paul? He was the MAN!) In addition, another possible complaint could be that it's not written in an easy-flowing biographical style. True, but at the same time, this is not an impossible book for the average layperson to understand. That's why the publisher has made it available in paperback. <br />Let me say, if you consider yourself a person who loves the Word of God, a book like this will only enhance your study. It takes  us from the beginning of Saul/Paul's life and opposition to the Way all the way to his imprisonments and death, with an emphasis on the apostle's theology. In effect, Bruce gives us the complete context to help us understand the situations that caused Paul to write the way he did. You will want to have your Bible nearby when you read it. Another valuable tool in this book is its index. This book could be used when carefully studying Acts or one of Paul's epistles. The background information the book provides what is probably more valuable than a set of NT commentaries. While the book can be either read or just utilized as a resource, there is no doubt in my mind that this is the best single work on Paul that I have ever seen.	2000-12-16
US	50079159	R39AGWWJ4LI0HC	0877848262	8104530	The Atonement: Its Meaning and Significance	Books	5	52	52	N	N	The standard work on the atonement	There are some books that do such a wonderful job covering a single biblical concept that you wonder, why would anyone else want to write on the topic? I believe Bible scholar Leon Morris has accomplished such a fete with his book on atonement. Although not a skim-through kind of book that might appeal to all Christian laypeople, it is not difficult to read this book word by word and come away with a far greater appreciation of how God worked in both the Old and New Testaments when it comes to the atonement of God. (Trust me, he could have been much more technical and have lost many average readers, but thankfully he doesn't.) He fully describes the words associated with the atonement, including Passover, redemption, reconciliation, and justification. Salvation is such a rich idea, it's a shame many Christians go through life not fully understanding the gift that they've been given.	2000-12-16
US	50079159	R3NJC47QDE2QY5	0849935059	782363972	20 Hot Potatoes Christians Are Afraid To Touch	Books	2	31	93	N	N	Put this one back into the oven	Campolo may be a very popular speaker, especially to the youth. He's funny and very entertaining. Probably there is no more personable a speaker than he. However, entertaining does not equal orthodox. And Campolo holds such a leftist presupposition...why, I suppose you could get fed the same diet at any secular college. From his outlook on homosexuality (&quot;biological factors are the cause,&quot; he says) to his almost pantheistic enviromental outlook, I am not convinced that Campolo should be considered evangelical. I appreciate his efforts to deal with some hard-to-tackle topics--and several issues, he actually makes some thoughtful points, including his thoughts on the question on remarriage--but overall this book focuses more on personal opinion rather than proper biblical exegesis. Since Campolo has his left-leaning bias, there is little chance to feast at the table of open dialogue. Perhaps, as he mentions at least once, his views come from his apparently bad experience with &quot;fundamentalist teachers in Bible college.&quot; This still does not necessitate a radical swing to the left. Thus, my conclusion is that you are better off leaving this book in its packing box at the shipping plant.	2000-12-16
US	50079159	R2SVX3KDQR1LW1	006064334X	520201023	Early Christian Doctrines: Revised Edition	Books	5	58	62	N	N	Knowing where we came from	One of the problems with the modern evangelical Christian church is that very few of its members know where they came from. History was reviled by many of us in school, so there are those who would make the mistake of ignoring history. The problem with this outlook is that, as someone famous once said, those who forget history are doomed to repeat it. That is true in the historic Christian faith. Our spiritual forefathers worked hard to distinguish orthodoxy from heresy. From the person of Christ and the nature of God to baptism, Kelly explains what the early church fathers believed. He is quite honest about those early debates, and he shares with us the orthodox conclusions. Today, when we deal with heresy, we should feel free to see what those before us believed. Perhaps this will save a lot of heartache later on when deciding if a church is truly Christian or not. <br />One minor complaint. The footnotes are hard to read/understand. Most of us will have to take Kelly at his word, as he is the expert. But trying to understand these notes made me almost dizzy. Finally, I point out that the index is a great tool. Even if a person does not read this book from cover to cover--it can get a little dull for some of us, all that history!--the index makes this a wonderful resource when studying certain Christian doctrines. So, for instance, if you want to know what the early church felt about baptism, there are several dozen places in this book to look up. This makes it valuable on an available bookshelf.	2000-12-16
US	50079159	R2SYHKY87WEBBB	0785207074	759991352	New Christian's Handbook Everything New Believers Need To Know	Books	5	35	39	N	N	Wonderful manual on the Christian basics	It is amazing to me how little some Christians know about their faith. Therefore, I would highly recommend Anders' book, which surveys the essential issues of the historical Christian faith. The many user-friendly charts and simple writing style make New Christians Handbook a wonderful resource that I would like to see become very popular. I have taught &quot;New Believer&quot; Sunday School classes in the past, and let me tell you, this will be the new book if I teach it again. It gives the reader a chance to assimiliate the teachings of each chapter--they range from who is Jesus to what are end times--and come to a succinct conclusion, with helpful questions at the back of each section along with sample prayers and possible memory verses. For those laypeople who just want to get in better touch with their faith, this would be a great place to begin.	2000-12-15
US	50079159	RB2O89F2S009Y	1564762440	988555255	Letters From a Skeptic: A Son Wrestles with His Father's Questions about Christianity	Books	3	25	34	N	N	OK but contains several problems	First, let me state several things: 1) I have an M.Div. from Bethel Seminary, the same school where Dr. Boyd teaches; 2) I picked up this book with great anticipation, as I have heard many positive reviews; 3) I too am very involved with apologetics, which is Dr. Boyd's specialty. With this being said, I have to state upfront that this is not a book that I will freely give to my skeptic friends or recommend to my students. Without sounding like a fundamentalist--which I am not--I disagree with some major points that I'm not convinced are peripheral issues. <br />Having read about Dr. Boyd's Open View of God (which, to me, appears to be an adverse reaction against Calvinism, going so far as to say that God is ignorant of the future), I was wondering if this issue was going to be dealt with here in one of Boyd's first books. Unfortunately it was, as the doctrine is summarized on page 30. I guess I will have to read his new book that deals exclusively with his explanation of the view, but I must say that Dr. Boyd is not very convincing about it in Letters. Even Boyd's dad is amazed with the position, saying in his next letter, &quot;I admit your view sounds better than the standard one...but I wonder if your view is just your own creation.&quot; Wow! This skeptic (at the time) recognized something amiss, showing a great perception that he had throughout the book. (I have to say, the dad was as sharp as they come, and my hat goes off to him for working through these issues over the several-year period.) I realize that Bethel has declared the issue to be within the bounds of orthodoxy, but how can a doctrine pertaining to the nature of God be considering anything but essential?<br />Another problem I had was how Boyd seemed to be so zealous in his fight to win his father to the Lord that he tried to water down several other issues. The attitude seemed to be, &quot;Hey, there are many people who hold opposing views on this issue of (blank). Feel free to choose whatever strikes your fancy.&quot; Letters from a Skeptic thus became a book with no backbone. &quot;Just accept the Gospel message,&quot; Dr. Boyd seemed to be begging, &quot;and don't worry about the exact details.&quot; I have a problem with evangelists trying to get potential converts to repeat a prayer with no clue as to what they are doing. Tickling ears to win converts is not a commandment of God. It is certainly not the standard set forth in the New Testament. A good example of what I am talking about is the issue of hell dealt with in correspondence 25. How you believe on this issue doesn't matter, Dr. Boyd tells his dad, and he even suggests that the annihilationist position is true. While this has become a very controversial issue, I wonder why we, the mere creatures, have such a problem with allowing God the freedom to mete justics to His creation. Just because I don't like a doctrine (it doesn't suit my tastes?) doesn't make a doctrine false. If I only chose doctrines that I liked, I guess I'd have to throw most of them out, including the integral issue of the atonement. It appears to me that Dr. Boyd's presuppositions have gotten in the way of his properly interpreting the passages of scripture that, though hard for us to understand, are very clear. What then happens is that a God best fitting the image of what Dr. Boyd believes sounds good is therefore created. (I notice a lack of scriptural references, which I understand would not have been very convincing to his dad, but just where did Dr. Boyd come to his conclusions? We rarely know.) Obviously this can be a very dangerous technique.<br />I know I am sounding pretty harsh with this review, but I just wanted to state my disappointment in the book. For 90 percent of the book, I'm right there with Dr. Boyd, agreeing with his arguments and even anticipating what he is going to say. (About 80 percent of what he deals with are issues discussed in my own classes.) It's just too bad that parts of very important theology had to be watered down in order to get a point across to the dad. I truly wish this could have been a book receiving my recommendation.	2000-11-26
US	50079159	R1BPYHXWZWJAMP	0785271767	51831350	Good Morning, Holy Spirit	Books	1	39	59	N	N	Grieving the Holy Spirit	While on the outside Benny Hinn looks quite prosperous (both healthy as well as financially), the inside of his theological system is full of dead men's bones. Just because a man is successful according to the standards of the world (i.e. the largeness of this man's &quot;ministry&quot; and even the converts who claim to be changed) does not make him a spiritual success. &quot;Good Morning Holy Spirit&quot; is so full of doctrinal errors...every true believer born of the spirit should be able to see right through it. From his corrupt view of the Trinity to the idea that God wants everyone to be prosperous, it should be made known that getting involved with Hinn's movement can be very dangerous to one's spiritual growth. For those truly interesting in having a healthy relationship with God and leaving the diet of cotton candy and Milk Duds, try something like &quot;Mere Christianity&quot; by CS Lewis. It would be so much better for your health!	2000-11-19
US	50079159	R1W1XLL5JNZXVS	0877849919	461693856	Foundations of the Christian Faith (Master Reference Collection)	Books	5	42	43	N	N	A layman's guide to systematic theology	Obviously Boice has a Presbyterian bent, and though I disagree with some of his conclusions, I still highly recommend this volume. Apparently this used to be a 4-volume work, but it was shortened into one. It is very easy to read, so the layman could get a lot out of it. Boice attempts to give different positions for the issues, offering more than just his viewpoint. Overall, though, he remains very evangelical, and while we can certainly discuss our differences, I appreciate the flavor in which this work was written. Boice is kind but to the point. No doubt that it's long for many laypeople--more than 700 pages--but again, as the cover says, while it is comprehensive, it is still very readable. This book would also be good to keep on the bookshelf and look up theological issues as they come up.	2000-11-15
US	50079159	R1WSFHSNZFN6PC	0801011493	146961273	When Cultists Ask: A Popular Handbook on Cultic Misinterpretations	Books	5	3	7	N	N	Cringing with the title but liking the resource	First off, I should point out that the word &quot;cult&quot; has become a loaded word that should be avoided at all costs. So often it is associated with everything from Jonestown to Waco, and nobody wants to believe that his church is a &quot;cult.&quot; So having this word in the title could be a turn-off who are offended by such terminology. Working with groups that claim to be Christian but whose theology is anything but, I can vouch that Geisler and Rhodes do cover the major verses used to support false teachings. Although some of the passages are pretty much a repeat of what is covered in &quot;When Critics Ask&quot; by Geisler and Howe, there is enough original material to make it a worthwhile companion volume. It is especially useful for those who enjoy spending time sharing their faith with others. Of course, not every passage is as complete as I'd like it to be, but overall it gives the reader a head start in the right direction. For this reason I do recommend it.	2000-10-30
US	50079159	RL9C148E6CUW3	006016848X	587492563	Men Are from Mars, Women Are from Venus: A Practical Guide for Improving Communication and Getting What You Want in Your Relationships	Books	5	5	6	N	Y	Moving communication out of the &quot;gray&quot;	Men and women have been made different. Congratulations, you might say. Welcome to the world. While everyone knows there are (vast, huge, gulf-like) differences between the sexes, few are able to put their finger on what it is that makes them not always get along. Gray does a marvelous job in this book, and it comes down to this: too often the communication lines are down. I really like what Gray had to say about how to better understand what your partner is made up of and the patterns of thinking. I would have to say this is the best book on communication that I have ever read. He gives many examples to support his points and makes for interesting reading. I especially enjoyed the charts where he gives the right thing (and wrong thing) to say in response to a question or comment. I recommend this book especially for younger couples, even for those who are not yet married.	2000-10-24
US	50079159	R2YNTBIGD5YZ59	0201339854	402114087	The Associated Press Stylebook and Libel Manual	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Needed in a journalism environment	As a high school newspaper adviser (notice, &quot;adviser&quot;) for eight years, I highly recommend every journalism teacher show his/her students the ins and outs of the AP Stylebook. It's funny, but students would rather get right into writing and ignore the minor details. But later in the year, when those pesky questions come up (&quot;If this is going to be an annual event, should it be called 'first annual'?&quot;), I look at them and they suddenly remember. &quot;Oh yeah, I'll go look it up,&quot; is their response. If the students move on to the next level, they will be one step ahead of those who have no clue. I also appreciate the wonderful sections on puntuation/proper usage as well as sports; they are often referred to in order to sharpen the monthly paper. It's worth purchasing three or four copies of the book and leave them next to the computers where the students work. The manuals will get used by the more serious students. (The lazy journalism students...well, there's not much hope for them anyway! Maybe they'll become publishers one day.) Finally, I recommend the spiral-bound copies. They're much more durable for the long haul.	2000-10-21
US	50079159	R34PV87Z6NC6L2	0805491988	759623615	Bonhoeffer's the Cost of Discipleship (Shepherd's Notes. Christian Classics)	Books	5	25	30	N	N	There is definitely a cost to discipleship	This is one of my five all-time favorite books. If you saw my copy, you would know through the pen and highlighter marks that I took copious notes as I read. And I'm not one who just highlights everything. Bonhoeffer states biblical truth in a straightforward manner. Just some of my favorite quotes:<br />* &quot;Cheap grace is the preaching of forgiveness without requiring repentance, baptism without church discipline, Communion without confession, absolution without personal confession...grace without the cross, grace without Jesus Christ, living and incarnate.&quot; * &quot;Christianity without the living Christ is inevitably Christianity without discipleship&quot; * &quot;The life of discipleship can only be maintained so long as nothing is allowed to come between Christ and ourselves--neither the law, nor personal piety, nor even the world.&quot;<br />Bonhoeffer was willing to practice what he preached. He had opportunities to escape from the prison where they kept him (for his part in an assasination plot of Hitler), but he stayed and was an example to everyone, even the guards. Himmler had him killed soon before the war ended. Too bad. It would have been nice to have had Bonhoeffer in the latter half of the 20th century. Whether or not I agree with every doctrinal idea he had, though, this is a book that has been a challenge in my own life, and it's one that I ought to reread more often.	2000-10-19
US	50079159	R3Q0U3FYUPNUCW	0940895366	52283406	C.S. Lewis: Mere Christian, Fourth Edition	Books	5	13	15	N	N	Rich in background on the life of a great Christian writer	Getting inside the mind of Lewis is the great accomplishment of Kathryn Lindskoog. She does a wonderful job summarizing the thinking of CS Lewis. Those who are fascinated with Lewis, a man who I believe was quite mysterious in his private world but fairly public with his writing, will devour this book. Here you will learn about Lewis' thoughts on smoking and drinking (he knew smoking was a bad idea, but he was not a teetotaler); that next to Christianity, dualism makes the most sense (interesting!); and the fact that Lewis gave 2/3rds of his money to charity--and why. <br />This gives you an idea of the information available to us through the good biographer Lindskoog. She does not fail to support herself with endnotes, and one of the 5 appendices gives a calendar of how you could read a Lewis book every month during the year (with suggestions based on the season). I might have to try it myself, though I've already read most of what is suggested. (Nothing wrong with rereading Lewis!) To fully cover a man who authored more than 50 books, Lindskoog has done a wonderful service by writing this book.	2000-10-18
US	50079159	R2O0XBWXMIB3G3	0684846969	811486002	Your God Is Too Small	Books	5	31	32	N	N	Simple yet profound	In this 40-year-old short Christian classic, Phillips does a masterful job showing just who God isn't...and is. There are certain false images that we may have of God, but Philips tackles these in the first half of the book. I believe much of the views today's America has about God come from the media and their stereotypical nonsense--this is the kind of thinking Phillips seeks to destroy. The second half is dedicated to the constructive view of the authentic God who, it should be pointed out, is much greater than the limited box many stick Him in.	2000-10-18
US	50079159	R2SO84DIMDLGUL	0802808689	694218053	God in the Dock: Essays on Theology and Ethics	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Plenty of subjects, lots of meat	Lewis is one of the finest thinking minds in the Christian literary world, and this book shows his brilliance in essays related to theology and ethics. Several of my favorites were Man or Rabbit? Scraps, and Meditation in a Toolshed. (The titles give you some idea of the fun Lewis had with these writings.) A number of the essays (48 in all) give personal insights into Lewis' life, including a 1963 interview with Sherwood Witt several months before Lewis died. All in all, this is one of those books to keep on the bookshelf and pull down when you have a spare five minutes and want to read a section. The chapters don't go with each other, so it gives you the freedom to pick and choose. Those who like to think (and especially like Lewis' sharp mind) will appreciate this book.	2000-10-18
US	50079159	R1O92W8L2XUZXC	1565071069	899768182	Reasoning from the Scriptures with the Jehovah's Witnesses	Books	5	13	30	N	Y	Simple witnessing tool on a complex subject	For those Christians who have ever spoken to the JW at the door, you know what I mean when I say it can be a very scary experience. &quot;What do I say?&quot; you wonder as the JW gives his spiel about the end of time and invites you to join him for a study. Rhodes does an admirable job coming up with questions to ask the Witness, giving reasons why the Watchtower Society is not a Christian organization, as the JW leaders would claim. While the average Jehovah's Witness is the hardest working person I know, all of his &quot;good&quot; works will not earn him a ticket to heaven (or even Paradise Earth). Rather, it's by the grace of God; works merely show the veracity of a conversion. It's the fruit of a new life that took place when the person had the Holy Spirit come into his life. Truly we are commanded to work out (not work &quot;for&quot;) our salvation with fear and trembling, as Phil. 2:12 points out. And Rhodes gives us what I consider to be the best easy-to-understand volume on the Jehovah's Witnesses from a Christian perspective.	2000-10-18
US	50079159	RRFQ9PACLY3IT	080281428X	464583078	Letters to an American Lady	Books	4	9	9	N	N	An interesting look at the real Lewis	Of course CS Lewis has proven to be the most popular Christian author of the 20th century. And for good reason. He's articulate, well-reasoned, and he certainly has a way with words. This book gives an inside look at Lewis as he corresponds with an American woman whom he apparently never met. The letters were written between 1950 until he died in 1963. If you like reading other peoples' mail (what is it, esp. we Americans have, with such things?), then this can make for interesting reading. Much of what he says here, though, is pretty trivial and doesn't get very deep. But if you want a personal glimpse of Lewis, its probably worth the read.	2000-10-18
US	50079159	R1R75S87UAT23B	0060608528	317871622	Life Together: The Classic Exploration of Christian in Community	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Simple yet profound	It's not complicated, Bonhoeffer says, but its do-able. In the Christian body we need to allow prayer, worship, work, sacraments, and service unite us in the body of Christ--this, he says, is what is needed in order to obtain true fellowship. Of course, Bonhoeffer learned about the meaning of fellowship under the Nazi regime, and he personally took the high road. The easy route would have been to align himself with the state church, but instead he involved himself in the Confessing Church and helped organize an underground seminary. Does our Christian church--I'm really limiting myself to the church in America--have it too easy today? Would a little persecution, which could be just around the corner, force us to better live the life of fellowship that I find so badly lacking in my life and the church around me? Perhaps. I think Life Together is well worth pondering as we take a look at our own life together with God and the brethren.	2000-10-12
US	50079159	R2X1PR4QWLA98C	0801058481	436263437	The New Millennium Manual: A Once and Future Guide	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Fun and informative	This is a book that is easy to read in its 2-column format and is very interesting. Of course, it was released in 1999 to coincide with Y2K, and it probably won't be a book around five years from now, but I thought the authors did an overall good job with the history. It's a manual that I will keep on my bookshelf to reference whenever I have questions about a group that is predicting the end. The art, cartoons, photos and other illustrations make this a very pleasant read, and they have a complete index at the end to help you reference specific groups or names.	2000-10-12
US	50079159	RGAYV32QV24VW	0877849986	519193343	The Cross of Christ	Books	5	63	76	N	N	About the symbol most attacked by non-believers	From Satanists to pagans to the non-believing world at large, the cross of Christ is the most despised symbol in probably all creation. What it stands for brings out the snidest comments I have ever heard. And no wonder! Even Paul said that the message of the cross is foolishness to those who perish. Stott does a marvelous job tracking the centrality of the cross and just what it means for the faithful Christian. This is not a skimming kind of book that many non-Christians whose diet consists of 100% fiction will appreciate. It will cause you to think, but as an earlier reviewer hinted, it's the kind of book more people in our churches desperately need to read. If you want milk, as so many Christian bookstores offer, then you will live a superficial Christian life. If you want meat that will help you dig deeper into this relationship you have with God, then I suggest picking up The Cross of Christ and making sure your highlighter is in new condition...you will need it!	2000-10-12
US	50079159	R2V0UE0BFZ8NQ3	0802811892	550525654	Basic Christianity	Books	4	29	32	N	N	Don't let the small type scare you	Stott is marvelous describing who is Jesus, what is sin, what did Jesus do, and what should be the individual's response. He has a clear way of describing the truly important beliefs of the Christian church. I do have two complaints, one major and one minor. I'm curious how a book entitled &quot;Basic Christianity&quot; could be devoid of any mention of the character of God, including the Trinity. Much is made of the nature of Christ, but I do not remember reading about God's nature. The minor complaint is that book's type is so small--maybe this is the way to keep the price down on a very powerful 142-page book. Don't let my complaints keep you away from a very wise investment.	2000-10-12
US	50079159	R1FZFNQNR2IAQ3	0684838273	889214042	Letters and Papers from Prison	Books	5	75	76	N	N	Bonhoeffer's last great writing	If nothing else, you just have to admire Dietrich Bonhoeffer for the stand he made for the truth. Whether or not you agree with his role in the murder plot of Hitler, you have to salute the German theologian for his honesty in this book, which is comprised of letters sent mainly to Eberhard Bethge and his parents. An appendix includes letters that he penned to his fiance Maria. If you want to read this book for pure theology sake, then I would probably turn to The Cost of Discipleship first (which, he mentions in one letter, he wrote partly out a false hope to acquire faith by trying to live a holy life, a very honest admission). But if you want to better understand the man and what he was truly made of in the time of his last two years of life, then this book is very insightful. I don't think anyone can do better to get into the head of this great theologian than to read Letters and Papers From Prison.	2000-10-12
US	50079159	R1WGJ2P90VP8J0	084230021X	512072647	Answers to Tough Questions Skeptics Ask About the Christian Faith	Books	3	30	34	N	N	OK for beginners	When this book was written 14 years ago, it was much-needed, and I used it a number of times to help in my research of certain questions. However, in 2000, there are so many other books like this available today that are much more detailed and better organized. Several include When Skeptics Ask and When Critics Ask by Norman Geisler. Even McDowell's A Ready Defense is better than the Answers book. But if you are looking for a simple beginner's manual, then I suppose this could be very useful to you. It's small, inexpensive, and McDowell is very clear about his answers. For many, though, a good look through the apologetics section of Amazon or any Christian bookstore worth its salt will turn up better choices.	2000-10-06
US	50079159	R3FTB9AXKDJIRK	0840744196	72098334	A Ready Defense The Best Of Josh Mcdowell	Books	4	5	8	N	N	An overall good volume on  the &quot;best&quot; of McDowell	Josh McDowell has had a tremendous influence on my life. I remember reading the Evidences books back when they were first printed 20+ years ago. It was tough reading in the outline format, but I was able to accumulate many important facts that helped me in later apologetics ministry. The best of Josh is in this book, as it summarizes much of the Evidences books and puts it into a more readable fashion. This is a much better work than his &quot;Answers to Skeptics&quot; book, which I found to be a little too simplistic. Many of the same answers are listed here. My only criticism is that McDowell may try to bite too much off in one volume. While it serves as a good overall summary to everything from biblical textual criticism to the deity of Christ, he also tries to talk about the major religions. In this section I feel he falls short. For instance, in the section on Judaism, he limits the 3 branches to one paragraph each. Very little can be accomplished in such tight restrictions. However, overall, I would give this book an approving four stars and suggest it be kept on the average Christian's bookshelf, handy for reference on a variety of topics.	2000-10-06
US	50079159	RE16OPVHXEI6F	0830818847	472887734	Jesus the Messiah: A Survey of the Life of Christ	Books	5	36	41	N	N	A great overview of the Life of Christ	I teach a college-level &quot;Life of Christ&quot; survey class and use  this book as my text. It is clear, orderly, evangelical, and well  documented, perfect for a learning environment such as a college classroom.  The issues dealt with by Stein involve more than just his personal opinion  (although he will tell you what he feels is the most likely  interpretation). He does make a big point to explain different  interpretations of various points of disagreement (such as the ethical  teachings of Jesus). I find this to be much more honest and refreshing than  merely ignoring opposing points of view. Stein supports everything with  references from the Bible as well as numerous other books on the subject,  many of which are unfortunately out of print. If you want a nondevotional  survey on the Life of Christ, I know of no better book.	2000-09-18
US	50079159	R3PIGHTPKJ5QHS	1556615752	873498057	The King James Only Controversy: Can You Trust the Modern Translations?	Books	5	38	49	N	N	Should put the controversy to rest	To me, there is no substance to the KJV Only debate. It's ridiculous  because, let's face it, the KJV is merely a translation just as the other  versions are. Every translation is going to naturally have holes in its  rendering because every language is unique and has its own nuances. This is  true for all translation, such as when you translate a German song into  French or a Spanish poem into English. If you want to get as close as  possible to the original, learn Hebrew and Koine Greek. <br />Truly I have no  problems with those who want to personally use the KJV alone, but why force  your personal preference on others and use such harsh language to  critically undress those who disagree? It makes no sense. James does a  scholarly job in showing how the criticism against the  &quot;bloodless&quot; translations are unjustified. The proof is in the  pudding, and James brings it all out in this rather lengthy, complete work.  Be forewarned that this is not a book you'd read on a flight from Boston to  Atlanta. No, it's not easy reading, and you will probably want to have your  modern translation (NIV? NASB?) next to a King James so you can personally  look at the context of the passages exegeted in the book. <br />I know this  book is very controversial in King James Only circles, but I would hope  that they would honestly reevaluate their position. Even if they disagree,  my prayer is that the name-calling and other loaded language techniques  would stop. Be professional. James was. With a Christless world needing the  Gospel, we can so much better use our time than to bicker with each other  about which translation is the best.	2000-09-18
US	50079159	R2QWYHYZJ39RDX	1576830616	733708367	How to Stay Christian in College: An Interactive Guide to Keeping the Faith	Books	5	41	45	N	Y	Easy to read but not &quot;dumbed down&quot;	Let's face it. Most Christian young people are not adequately prepared in  a spiritual sense to head off to a secular college upon graduation from  high school. I teach at a Christian high school myself, and I know that we  have our hands full preparing our students for the philosophies and beliefs  of the secular world. How often I have had former students come back and  tell me that they were glad they were given material to help reinforce  their Christian faith. Having flipped through How to Stay Christian in  College, I am recommending it to my high school seniors. More than a dozen  just ordered it. This book will complement the information provided to them  in a junior level apologetics course. &quot;Bud&quot; is a U of Texas  professor who tackles some tough issues without getting too deep. For those  who need more information on any of the topics he discusses--from  relativism to politics--there are other excellent references listed in his  footnotes, most of which I have personally read and would also highly  recommend. I think this book would make an excellent graduation present by  a concerned parent or relative who wants to be sure &quot;junior&quot; will  retain his faith into the college years and beyond. Of course,  &quot;junior&quot; will need to learn what it means to own his own faith  (rather than borrowing mom and dad's), and this book would be an excellent  primer to have on the bookshelf next to the Bible.	2000-09-18
US	50079159	RSKU7FLM0VIS6	080281493X	728881295	Baptism in the New Testament	Books	5	16	20	N	N	By far the best book on Christian baptism	Although this in not meant to be an &quot;easy reading&quot; book on the  vast subject of baptism, &quot;Baptism in the New Testament&quot; is well  worth a careful read by the serious Bible student. This scholarly book is  written by a Baptist, but as the back cover says (and I agree), &quot;his  discussion transcends denominational lines.&quot; Baptism is a vital part  of the Christian experience, yet it is so often misunderstood, especially  when it comes to any possible role baptism has with salvation  (specifically, justification). Beasley-Murray concentrates much attention  on the historical aspect of the doctrine and shows how baptism has been  practiced and believed in the last 20 centuries. I would heartily recommend  this book to the person who is serious about his/her study.	2000-09-14
US	50079159	R1QB4AEB7I9BL2	0060628391	902482640	Celebration of Discipline: The Path to Spiritual Growth	Books	5	2	4	N	N	It will challenge the way you view your Christianity	Christianity is not something you do; rather, it's something you are.  Foster makes this very clear. I don't agree with everything Foster says in  this book, but I must add that he challenges the way that I approach my  faith. And that's why so many of the previous reviews have given this book  5 stars. One point that I don't necessarily agree with him is the chapter  on prayer, but I must say that I like the overall approach Foster has, and  it has challenged me in my own quiet times. Those who have grumbling  noontime tummies won't like the chapter on fasting, but we in America have  no clue as to the meaning of fasting. I don't do this on a regular basis,  but Foster gives me the desire to give it a better try. I just don't know  if I could do it with a spiritual mindset. No doubt the ideas found here  are worth a careful, contemplative consideration. In fact, I think every  Christian ought to make this book a part of their library.	2000-09-14
US	50079159	RR7ICZ5BBVBE5	1556617259	696594328	The Forgotten Trinity	Books	5	8	10	N	Y	Well reasoned defense of an essential Christian doctrine	There are a number of good books on the Trinity, but I would rate this  right up there in the top 2-3. White knows his stuff, and this book shows  his workmanship. While it does tend to get deep in several areas, for the  most part it is easy to understand, and I believe the average layperson out  there who wants to better comprehend this important teaching would be able  to work his/her way through this. Much of the Greek is saved for the  endnotes, which is probably a good thing because this is the stuff that  drives the average Christian crazy. I would say, don't get discouraged.  Stay with it, and I think you too will be able to have enough understanding  to defend this teaching with the cultist at the door.	2000-09-14
US	50079159	R1K387IX4EF4BN	0060684127	470924188	The Knowledge of the Holy: The Attributes of God: Their Meaning in the Christian Life	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Absolutely Tozer's best	At the time of this writing, there have been 16 reviews. Mine is 17. The  average rating: 5 stars. 'Nuff said. If you want to grow in your knowledge  of the God of this universe, then read this book. It hits the heart of the  issue when God's holiness is considered. And don't forget to get out the  new highlighter!	2000-09-14
US	50079159	R974S077GLREH	0812504798	71877442	The Red Badge of Courage (Tor Classics)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	An honest look at the Civil War	From what I understand, Civil War reenactments are hugely popular,  especially at war sites throughout the South. Participants even go so far  as to buy the exact rations (I heard the biscuits are like bricks!), wear  authentic uniforms, etc. What a trip! For such people, I highly recommend  Courage. It deals with the fear felt by a soldier in a war he did not fully  understand. (Who did?) Nation vs. Nation, Brother vs. Brother. God forbid  that we would ever again disagree with each other in such magnitude! There  are a lot of things I think I would have missed had I not followed along in  the Cliffs Notes. It kept me informed as to some deeper meanings. The book  is certainly not long, but for me it bogged down in several places.  However, I'm glad that I had a chance to experience war through someone  else's eyes rather than have to face such a situation in my own life. And  to imagine that Crane wrote this book based only on interviews he had with  Civil War vets! To me, this is an amazing fact.	2000-09-02
US	50079159	R3RCMC5318GD9E	0451526562	365726027	A Tale of Two Cities (Signet Classics)	Books	5	10	12	N	N	Dickens' best work, no doubt	I remember trying to read this book in 10th grade and fighting my way  through it. In fact, I called it &quot;dark&quot; and had no desire to  finish it (which I did not). Years later I picked Cities up again. The  second time, I couldn't put it down. What was the difference? Probably the  fact that I better appreciated Dickens' style and the way he used  symbolism. Everything from &quot;Charles Darnay&quot; (CD,  &quot;C&quot;harles &quot;D&quot;ickens perhaps placing himself into the  story!) to the Christological implications at the end of the story  (&quot;Greater love hath no man than this, that a man lay down his life for  his friends.&quot;) It's so rich that perhaps you ought to utilize the  Cliffs Notes to help you better understand the hidden meanings. To me,  everything just came together in the end. Don't let what happened to me the  first time occur to you! (I should point out that my high school teacher  was worthless when it came to helping me better understand the book--all of  my classmates seemed to hate it too. Today, when I teach it, I do my best  to explain things and give the students a full experience. Generally, most  of them seem to enjoy it.) Read it carefully, keep track of the major  players, and be ready for surprises around every corner.	2000-09-02
US	50079159	R2NTUEJXWYRZ29	0446310786	994527755	To Kill a Mockingbird	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A classroom favorite	Out of all the books that I've taught to 10th graders, this is by far the most popular. More discussion comes from Mockingbird than any other I've  required students to read. It's amazing to me that this was Lee's first and  apparently last work. How many Pulitzer-winning authors can claim they only  wrote one book? And then to have it win such acclaim! There must be good  reason why it is still ranked in the Top 1000, an amazing fact when you  consider how many books have been written. I just wonder how many new books  today in the Top 10 will be virtually unknown five years from now. To Kill  a Mockingbird deals with a number of individual and social issues. No doubt  the most sensitive issue is racism. I read a newspaper article this past  summer where some big-shot scholar is claiming that Mockingbird is actually  racist and should be read/taught with politically correct glasses. Give me  a break! Lee was way ahead of her time and dealt with reality in a quite  appropriate manner. The story line is crisp and never bogs down. It will  make you think, and I believe it will create an urge in you to dialogue  with others about vital contemporary issues of our day.	2000-09-02
US	50079159	R23XG415GMH2R	0812563115	365726027	Great Expectations (Tor Classics)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Slow but certainly worth a read	Having seen the many reviews written by students, I must say that I would  agree. In fact, they sounded like they could have almost been my students  from the past. Overall, GE is well liked, but the major complaint most have  is that the story line is too slow-developing. I think this is a fair  assessment. Of course, this was the style chosen by Dickens since this book  was compiled from serial form. How many people would claim that we ought to  take a week's worth of a soap opera program and turn it into a movie? I  doubt such a production would attract much attention. In the same way, a  serial writer's objective was to build mini-climaxes throughout the book,  twisting and turning to get the audience to scream with anticipation, so  that the next segment would sell. From what I understand, Americans could  hardly wait for the shipments to get off the ships. They would purchase the  newest segment and immediately dig in! <br />If you are a teacher, I highly  recommend showing the 4-hour movie starring Anthony Hopkins (produced in  the late 1980s, I believe). It is the best and most accurate of all the GE  movies. This works really well in conjunction with the book, and it truly  helps in the interest level for those students who are not as motivated as  &quot;the readers.&quot; So go ahead and find out about the adventures of  squeezable Pip, lovable Joe, the mysterious Miss Havisham, sweet Biddy,  snooty Estella, and of course the mysterious Magwitch. I think you will be  as surprised as I was when I first read it. (I've read an abridged version  four or five times!)	2000-09-02
US	50079159	R299LN00O0JYUL	0553280414	586746552	A Separate Peace	Books	3	7	10	N	N	With so many classics, why choose this one?	Can we be honest? Despite being an English teacher, I don't think I am required to like every book I read...even those deemed classics. A Separate  Peace is just not my cup of tea. And my students would echo this sentiment.  In fact, I took a poll in 10th grade English and discovered that this was  the least favorite out of the six books/plays we read that year. What don't  I (or they) like? I guess the question is, &quot;What did I like?&quot; And  I found very little to get excited about. The author does a good job  developing some of the characters, but there is enough mystery that so very  much can be read between the lines. The students also wondered if the main  characters were homosexual, and while I have not recently looked at the  Cliff Notes--might be good to have it on hand--there was not enough clarity  to definitely determine this, one way or the other. Perhaps the author  would have better clarified this issue had it been written today. Overall,  with there being so many classics that you will never have the time to read  them all... IMHO why read this? Just don't tell my former English students  who read this just because I required it!	2000-09-02
US	50079159	R3GKN4V3AGKJX0	0451526341	380925201	Animal farm: A Fairy Story	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Four legs (stars) good, two legs bad	I'm going to be a little different and give Animal Farms fours stars  instead of five. I liked the book well enough, that's for sure. It is a  very powerful little book (mine is 128 paperback pages) with political  ramifications throughout. It would help if you understood history and  political science, especially from the days when Orwell wrote this (1946).  I give it four stars because, when I first finished the book in an English  class, I was not fulfilled. Was it for politics sake? Was it to get by  senior English? (Since then, I've taught the book to high school sophomores  who, by the way, would probably also not give it five stars if they were  polled). I don't know. It's certainly worth a read, though, and it might  not be a bad idea to have the Cliff Notes near-by. It will illumine any  number of symbolic meanings as you read the adventures of Napolean,  Snowball, and Farmer Jones. Finally, check out the 1960s cartoon Animal  Farm. It's a student favorite! Baaaaaaah.	2000-09-02
US	50079159	R1TCZ5RJGTM22C	0802434282	745580024	Moody Handbook of Theology	Books	5	24	26	N	N	Very thorough yet simple in style	Enns does an excellent job in taking a very complex subject (namely,  theology) and breaking it down into a very readable format. While he  certainly has his personal theological bent, it is not very apparent  throughout much of the book, as he seems to honestly tackle the different  styles and beliefs of doctrines. He is very effective in objectively (as  far as it can be done) describing the various systems of belief. Numerous  charts found throughout the book accentuate the discussion of the different  chapters. The glossary in the back includes 1-2-sentence defintions, and  while this is perhaps too simple, I could see this being advantageous for a  beginner who is easily overwhelmed. For someone who would like an overview  of theology, I would think this book should be a most valuable research  tool.	2000-08-29
US	50079159	R3DO0BQ31RI20R	0801034132	811892745	Evangelical Dictionary of Theology	Books	5	13	15	N	N	From Abaddon to Zwingli	I love having these kind of books on my shelf as they prove to be a  valuable resource in so many ways. This book contains short articles  covering a variety of issues and people, all related to Christian theology.  I would not say that this would be the final authority for any individual  topic, but it's a good place to start when you are doing research. The  bibliographies listed in each of the articles give additional guidance for  further research. Walter Elwell does a super job in his editing of these  &quot;Baker Reference Library&quot; books. You ought to have this as well  as the apologetics and biblical theology books on your shelf to pull down  whenever you want to know more.	2000-08-23
US	50079159	R201UG972XN5R1	0679730540	783796428	No Man Knows My History: The Life of Joseph Smith	Books	5	214	322	N	N	A classic, well worth a look	One former LDS leader has said that Joseph Smith is either a true prophet,  called by God, or he is the greatest liar and deceiver who has ever lived  on the face of this earth. Fawn Brodie grew up as a Mormon, and I'm sure it  pained her to uncover the facts that she did in her extensive research.  (She was later excommunicated from the LDS Church, which I think is the  wrong thing to do. She merely wrote a historical book; did the LDS leaders  truly want her to repress the facts?) In No Man Knows my History, she  uncovered the real Smith, the one who wanted to be prophet/military  commander/president, etc. He is not the same person many Mormons have  perceived him to be.<br />The research is sound and, while very historical  (obviously, since that was Brodie's specialty), extremely readable. It kept  my interest throughout the book. I think it behooves a person to be very  critical when it comes to following any leader. If the leader is from God,  I think this will prove itself. If he is not, then common sense says to  leave and search after what is real truth. This truth is only found in the  God of the Bible, not the God that Joseph Smith said was &quot;once as we  are now, and is an exalted man, and sits enthroned on yonder heavens.&quot;  I think Brodie has gotten many followers of Joseph Smith to rethink their  faith, and I am glad it is so very popular today.	2000-08-11
US	50079159	R1OX3BBET6DPVC	0962096326	184025762	By His Own Hand Upon Papyrus: A New Look at the Joseph Smith Papyri	Books	5	101	125	N	N	The research is solid	Besides the excellent research, Larson writes a book that is readable. His  conclusions are damning for those who claim that Joseph Smith had the  ability to interpret the Egyptian language. Although Larson comes from a  Christian perspective, I believe that he is very objective about his  findings. A follower of Smith's might point to the author's Christian  beliefs as a reason why this book is tainted, but this is ridiculous.  Instead of attacking the messenger, the critics should go after the  message...and I don't think this is so easy in this case. I especially like  the fold-out color charts of the original papyrii--the book is worth its  price just for these alone--and this makes it very easy to follow his  explanations throughout the analysis. Visual learners will love it! I  believe that this book is very important, for if Joseph Smith were a true  prophet of God, and if he did indeed translate the Book of Mormon (the  plates from this 1830 book are missing, so we cannot check his interpreting  ability here), then we should expect the translation from the &quot;Book of  Abraham&quot; to be very accurate. Alas, Smith did not know Egyptian (as  proved by Larson); he was able to get away with so much because he lived  when the science of translating the language was in its infancy. This is  something every Mormon should think about.<br />As far as those reviewers who  do not like the last two chapters where the case for Christianity is  presented: Larson is not trying to give the definitive case for his faith.  That's not what this book is about. Rather, he was trying to say, If  Mormonism is not true, then what is? This is a legitimate question, and I  think these chapters were very appropriate where they were placed. To the  Mormon, Christian, and atheist alike, I give By His Own Hand my highest  recommendation.	2000-08-11
US	50079159	R29F2MH56Z9FDF	1556617046	542741534	The Compact Guide To World Religions	Books	5	15	18	N	N	Insightful, very helpful, and highly recommended	The Compact Guide to World Religions has a very simple format yet it says  a lot in a few pages. It goes through the major world religions, gathering  the expertise from a number of qualified Christians. I have spoken to  adherents from all of the faiths that are talked about in this book, and I  must say that I was thoroughly impressed with the information the writers  were able to give with an average of only 20 pages for each religion. I  especially liked the &quot;answering the objections&quot; sections, with  practical advice on how to effectively communicate with these groups. If  you are a Christian who would like to better understand the religions of  the world, I highly recommend this book!	2000-08-11
US	50079159	R3OPKYAH0HX5H0	1576733211	646835224	Decision Making and the Will of God: A Biblical Alternative to the Traditional View	Books	5	41	45	N	Y	This book may change your preconceived notions	I think discovering God's will is one of the most difficult tasks any  Christian must experience, and there are always doubts whether or not we  are in the &quot;center&quot; of this &quot;nailing jello to the wall&quot;  will. This book might just change the way you view the way we can follow  God in a godly manner. Friesen takes a view that God sometimes gives  freedom in decisions. We might be given several possibilities, both of  which God can work in our lives.  He does not force the issue, but through  circumstances and other criteria, we can make wise, biblical decisions and  realize that we have made godly decisions. <br />This book has been a great  help in my life, as I am a Type A personality who too often tries to figure  out every nuance of God and the way He works. Forget it, it just can't be  done. By changing my persepective, it has helped me to be more free so that  I can experience God completely and have the abundant life as so promised  by Christ Himself. If nothing else, the book will make you think through  your preconceived notions.	2000-08-08
US	50079159	RQFX846V4WXG5	0802837859	292349396	The International Standard Bible Encyclopedia: 4 Vol. Set	Books	5	16	18	N	N	The cornerstone of a Christian library	Ladies and gentlemen, if you want to know the one book or set of books that should be a requirement for a Christian who is serious about his  faith, then ISBE would be it. Yes, it's a little expensive. And yes, it is  available on CD-ROM along with other Bible programs. (What an asset!) But,  there is no substitute to having the real thing available on hard copy.  (The computer screen can only last so long on one's eyes.) This encylopedia  covers just about every biblical subject in a scholarly manner. You will  have experts on the field to rely on for the articles you research. Well  worth its weight in gold. Buy it now!	2000-08-05
US	50079159	R2C1PNFMZM2BQK	1565076575	291807680	Darwin's Leap of Faith: Exposing the False Religion of Evolution	Books	3	14	20	N	N	Looked rushed	I normally don't read books (or watch movies, for that matter) that have  litle promise. When I went to the Christian bookstore to look at the  available material on the subject of Creationism (vs. Evolutionism), I  encountered a variety of possibilities, including those books writen by  Behe and Johnson. However, I determined that they were too involved for my  non-scientific mind to comprehend.<br />Then, when I saw Leap of Faith, I  thought this would be more my style, as it is more apologetic and less  scientific. However, I must say that I was disappointed in Leap of Faith. I  kept waiting for it to deliver what I thought it would, but the authors  really seemed to concentrate on showing the bias Evolutionists have toward  Creationists. The vast majority of what I read was not very new. The clip  and paste technique of the many quotes became very tedious, and I found  myself doing more skimming than close reading. <br />In addition, I found  several grammar/structure errors that made this book appear rushed. The  note preceding the &quot;Notes&quot; on page 351 said there was a temporary  loss of the author's library, making some citations incomplete. This  concerned me. Would it not have been better to have taken the time to find  these lost items or else dump the quotes/information in question? I thought  so. Maybe these are little things, but I wondered how closely the  authors/editors fine-tuned this book. (It's amazing to me, though, to read  on the back cover how Mr. Weldon has authored/coauthored more than 75  books! Perhaps this explains the lack of detail.)<br />The authors also gave  little room for disagreement. While I hold to a young earth and no  possibility of Theistic Evolution as they do, I wish they would have been a  little more fair in explaining the other views on creation. While I don't  minimize the importance of the necessity of believing that God is the  Creator of the world (and Evolution could therefore not be true, since it  is basedon naturalism and secular humanism and is therefore atheistic in  nature), I sometimes wonder if we Christians too often major on the minor  points (i.e. expending endless energy defending a literal 7-day creation  vs. the possibility of an older earth). I'm sure the authors would disagree  with me on this.<br />I guess if I really want to tackle the issue, I should  consider taking some time and reading &quot;Darwin's Black Box&quot; (on my  bookshelf--it looks good, but it scares me!) or other fine works on the  subject.	2000-08-04
US	50079159	R23LJ3KK9ED6CJ	0830819916	251473212	How Wide the Divide?: A Mormon & an Evangelical in Conversation	Books	3	6	17	N	Y	The wrong people partook	I would like to go on record as saying that the idea of having a dialogue between two people of different religions is good. Writing a book about it is also a wonderful plan. Despite &quot;How Wide the Divide's&quot; good intentions, however, it fails in several important ways.<br />First, although Dr. Robinson seems to be a fine LDS man, he does not possess ultimate authority when it comes to the Mormon religion (despite his holding the LDS priesthood). Whatever he says is merely his opinion until it is compared to the teachings of his church's leaders, both past and present. Since Dr. Robinson has some very interesting ideas--some of which he acknowledges in the book, such as his idea of what it means to &quot;obey the whole law&quot;--I doubt the church hierarchy in Salt Lake City would be able to give its full stamp of approval on this book and say Dr. Robinson is fully in line with LDS teaching.<br />Second, while Dr. Blomberg is a biblical scholar (and I believe he has written some very scholarly material), he seems to have accepted at face value too many of Dr. Robinson's beliefs as being bonafide Mormonism. Also, the definitions of some of the terms became muddled in several parts, and so I was left wondering if the two men understood the differences in meaning despite the use of identical terminology (i.e. the definition of &quot;God&quot; or &quot;salvation&quot; can mean different things to one person who is assuming the other person is thinking like he does).<br />Because of this, Dr. Blomberg appears to believe that the differences between Mormonism and Christianity are few. I would have liked a more critical evaluation of Dr. Robinson's beliefs to determine whether or not they were in line with offical LDS teaching. I believe that what Dr. Robinson espouses is not bonafide Mormonism as so taught by the church leaders, from Joseph Smith all the way to the current president, Gordon Hinckley. Unfortunately, Dr. Robinson was never called on the carpet to display his cards, so the bluff appears to have worked.<br />If anyone ought to present the Mormon side, why shouldn't it be  Gordon Hinckley, the LDS &quot;prophet, seer, and revelator&quot;? Although President Hinckley has sometimes publicly evaded specifics when it comes to doctrine, including interviews with the secular media, I think he would be a much more reliable witness when it comes to what is true LDS doctrine. Finally, it should be pointed out that Robinson is a polemicist who cannot be trusted. Consider the book by D. Michael Quinn, a former Mormon professor at BYU who was excommunicated because of his honesty in research. More than once in his &quot;Mormonism and the Magic World View&quot; Quinn shows beyond a shadow of a doubt that Robinson was deceptive in other works by not delivering the whole truth to his readers. So why should we trust him now?display his cards, so the bluff appears to have worked. <br />If anyone ought to present the Mormon side, why shouldn't it be  Gordon Hinckley, the LDS &quot;prophet, seer, and revelator&quot;? Although President Hinckley has sometimes publicly evaded specifics when it comes to doctrine, including interviews with the secular media, I think he would be a much more reliable witness when it comes to what is true LDS doctrine. Finally, it should be pointed out that Robinson is a polemicist who cannot be trusted. Consider the book by D. Michael Quinn, a former Mormon professor at BYU who was excommunicated because of his honesty in research. More than once in his &quot;Mormonism and the Magic World View&quot; Quinn shows beyond a shadow of a doubt that Robinson was deceptive in other works by not delivering the whole truth to his readers. So why should we trust him now?	2000-08-04
US	50079159	RZ9DJIKGKX8PF	1565071603	421181585	Encyclopedia of New Age Beliefs (In Defense of the Faith Series, 1)	Books	5	21	25	N	N	A  resourse book to have on your shelf	The New Age is not so new, as the authors point out in this fine book. They cover a variety of topics that could be considered as occultic and definitely not Christian. I have found it useful more than once when a  topic came up where I wanted more information. They have written this book  in such a way that you don't have to read it cover to cover. I like the  dual columns, and the information they provide is well worth the price of  admission. As a researcher myself, I know that it took these gentleman  thousands of hours of tedious research to compile this tome, so my hat goes  off to them.	2000-07-28
US	50079159	R2NV0EGZC7J6LR	0891099417	13266357	The Practice of Godliness: Godliness has value for all things	Books	5	28	30	N	N	Devotion in action	So says the first words of the back cover. And indeed, this book will do everything but force you to become godly. This part is going to be left up to you. The Bible says that the fruit of the spirit are obvious, and so it  ought to be. Yet sometimes, in the American society at least, it has become  most difficult to keep a Christian witness and remain devoted to God. And  so often the joy of Christian living is lost as we enmesh ourselves in the  everyday routines of our everyday wrolds. It need not be, and Bridges does  a wonderful job covering some of the virtues of the victorious Chrstian  life. My suggestion is to get the workbook, get together with several other  Christians, and treat this as a Bible study. It makes for wonderful  discussions, as I can attest as a Sunday School teacher of adults. This is  a book well worth the read.	2000-07-28
US	50079159	R2ZXT89LHE2ZTG	0801021510	607298002	Baker Encyclopedia of Christian Apologetics (Baker Reference Library)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	An excellent work with apologetics	Sure, it's expensive. But doggone it, sometimes good things are going to be costly. Although this was a book not meant to be read from cover to cover, I am in the process of doing this. Geisler is very thorough, and while some of the articles get pretty deep (time to skim!), I have learned much from someone who is one of the most prolific writers/thinkers in Christianity today. The entries include people involved with apologetics, vital issues on the topic, and concepts that are sure to be looked up. It's one of my favorite volumes to just pick up and open to any page to just begin reading. Baker's &quot;Encyclopedia&quot; series is very worthwhile, so I highly recommend this particular volume for obeying 1 Peter 3:15-16.	2000-07-28
US	50079159	R367QQA54O4SB3	0805420460	338167986	Mere Christianity	Books	5	48	57	N	Y	The definitive work for the case of Christianity	Although Lewis was a skeptic for much of his life, he was smart enough to consider the possibility that he might be wrong about his nonbelief in God (for the first half of his life, anyway). Mere Christianity is a  compilation of the reasons why he converted. It should be pointed out that  this book will not prove Christianity to be true. Trusting in Christ is  still a faith issue. However, the evidence presented by Lewis is strong  enough to get even the most ardent skeptic to think through the  philosophical arguments used to bolster the case Christianity. <br />This book  is good for a number of reasons. I appreciate Lewis' candor and frankness  as he supports the truth of Christianity. It has been instrumental in the  conversions of many people, even those who are very prominent in the  Christian scene today. (I think it is wonderful how much more popular Lewis  is today than when he was alive!) Indeed, his writing has touched a great  number of people, including me. In fact, I've read all of his nonfictional  works, and I find it fascinating to track with Lewis' reasoning and  argumentation. As you can see, this book has my highest recommendation.	2000-07-28
US	50079159	R2F8JWZ74ARJXF	0805420401	963630731	The Screwtape Letters: Also Includes "Screwtape Proposes a Toast	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A masterpiece by the master	Isn't it amazing that this book still ranks in the top 2,000 books on Amazon? How many other books that are half a century old can boast such sales? I believe this is one of C.S. Lewis' best work, perhaps in a close  race with Mere Christianity. The simple yet precise style of Lewis makes  for a very interesting read. Screwtape and Wormwood will say things that  will get you to think about your own personal life and walk with God. You  will wonder if, perhaps, the adversary actually works in such a way. As an  English teacher who has used this book in classes, I know that this is a  book enjoyed by teens as well as adults. I've read it 5 times, which for me  is quite a lot since I usually get bored with a book the third or fourth  time through. Not this one. Trust me. It's worth the time and effort.	2000-07-28
US	50079159	R2FSGOI1RZQSMP	0764220705	285912488	What's With the Dudes at the Door?	Books	4	6	8	N	Y	As it says, &quot;young adult&quot;	As a Christian teacher who has utilized this book in a high school Bible class, I would emphasize the book's own category of reader: young adult. Someone in an earlier review suggested giving this to a high school or  college student. My suggestion is, maybe not. It is more suited to a junior  high audience. Out of perhaps 150 of my junior and senior high school  students who read this book as a requirment for an apologetics Bible class  (semester long), I would say about half would have given it 4 or 5 stars. A  number of the students were honestly insulted by the way the authors tried  to be &quot;hip&quot; in their use of slang. Unfortunately, the teens just  don't talk like this anymore. (Maybe, like, 10 years ago the language was  &quot;cool.&quot;) Based on this, I changed my policy and no longer have it  as required reading, but I still offer it as a choice, and some actually  gravitate to an apologetics book that is such easy reading.<br />So, while  this book may not be for everyone, I still give it four stars (even though  I haven't read it cover to cover myself) because the information is very  pertinent to those who are just now exploring their faith. As I tell my  students, there is coming a time when it will no longer be OK to borrow  their parents' faith. In fact, it is time to own their own faith. A book  like this introduces some different philosophies that they will be  inundated with in the not-so-distant future. Mature junior highers should  be given this book before they attempt to share their faith with the  cultist at the door.	2000-07-28
US	50079159	R7WCXF7DLIYOG	0830817743	140993137	Handbook of Christian Apologetics	Books	5	52	57	N	N	A thinking book that is worth the read	Although I am not Catholic and did not agree with every one of the authors' conclusions, I must say that this book is a good overall defense of the historic Christian church. I appreciate that these men were  Christian first and Catholic second, and so there were no real noticeable  diatribes on the issues that could separate Catholics and Protestants.  Their reasoning was extremely sound, in the vast majority of cases, and I  have even used some of their information (i.e. 20 reasons for the existence  of God) in lecture notes in a Christian apologetics class that I teach. A  book like this and When Skeptics Ask by Geisler work well side by side on  the old bookshelf, and it's a wonderful experience to compare the two books  on a number of parallel issues. It's well worth the read, for both the  Christian and the skeptic who has never challenged himself to compare his  beliefs with the teachings of Christianity.	2000-07-28
US	50079159	R3L5J1ISVTD9E	0310435706	896560586	Encyclopedia of Bible Difficulties	Books	5	33	34	N	N	The old-time standard for Bible difficulties	I've used this book for almost 2 decades now, and it remains one of my favorites in the field of Bible difficulties. Archer did a super job giving explanations for difficult passages found in the Bible. Although I have  never read the book cover from cover, I've probably read enough of it to  count for 3-4 readings! I consider Archer's use of the context of the  passage, the Biblical languages, and other pertinent information exemplary.  Rarely do I find that I disagree with his assessment, so I give this book  my highest endorsement. Another good book of this genre is When Critics Ask  by Geisler and Howe. It has been fun for me to compare Archer and  Geisler/Howe when they discuss the same passages (which happens more often  than not). Again, I highly recommend this book for a research tool in the  serious Christian's library.	2000-07-28
US	50079159	R38JMJOJG964IX	0882905368	118188455	Answering challenging Mormon questions: Replies to 130 queries by friends and critics of the LDS Church	Books	1	3	11	N	N	Disappointment in the answers given	I can understand why this book is so low on the ranking charts of ...(700,000+ at the time of this review) less than 5 years after it was first published. First, its attempt to answer questions asked by Christians of the LDS religion are often simplistic and inaccurate. The author does a good job dancing around the major issues and majoring on the minors. Having studied the LDS religion from an evangelical Christian perspective, I was impressed by very few of his attempted answers. <br />I'm sure the Latter-day Saint who is looking for faith-promoting material will appreciate this work, yet I found little information that would get me to cease asking the very questions he poses because he really didn't answer them. I must say one positive thing, however. The author does understand many of the concerns the Christian apologist has about his religion, and we are certainly free to disagree with one another. But his insistence that Mormonism is synonymous with Christianity is definitely flawed. Perhaps both sides ought to be considered. I suggest the book Mormonism 101 (available at ...) for a view of the other side.	2000-07-28
US	50079159	RIY9TBDBNNQVN	1576731812	422591975	Transformed by Truth	Books	4	13	25	N	N	An honest and compelling story	Tkach has laid it all on the line in this book. I am sure that it was not an easy book to write, as he was involved in much of what this church was about, both before its &quot;conversion&quot; and after. The charts were  especially helpful, as it helped me to better understand where this  church's roots lay. In some places the book bogged down a bit, as some of  the details seemed to be somewhat redundant. But it did not diminish the  powerful story as told by the church's current leader. I am sorry to see  that it is now out of print--can it be that this story is not well received  by the general Christian population?	2000-07-28
US	50079159	RAJULHUL5Y1QV	083081423X	848024378	Hard Sayings of the Bible (Hard Sayings Series the Hard Sayings)	Books	5	55	57	N	N	A great tool to have on hand	I don't think there is any mystery to the fact that some biblical passages are tougher to interpret than others. This is why I so appreciate this book. In fact, I had bought the individual IVP books that were later  compiled into Hard Sayings of the Bible, and I spent the money for this  because it's nice having it all in one bound volume. I have used this many  times to see if a particular passage is talked about, and probably half of  the time it's in there. (I consider this to be a pretty high percentage.)  While I may not always agree with the assessment, it is nice to get other  perspectives, and more than once they have convinced me of their position  on very difficult passages. <br />So, for the person who honestly struggles  with interpreting the scripture for himself, I would say this is a good  book to have as a reference tool. The authors are certainly scholars who  are worth, at the very least, a consideration.	2000-07-28
US	50079159	RRIDMKGFNAXC3	1567312578	306699277	The Reader's Encyclopedia of Shakespeare	Books	5	15	16	N	N	The only reference you will ever want on Shakespeare	OK Shakespeare fans, this is the one reference book you will ever need for all you would ever want to know about the Bard. It covers everything related to Shakespeare minus information on whether he wore briefs or  boxers. (Everything else, though, is covered here--trust me!)<br />And one  thousand pages for $15? C'mon, this is well worth the price of a pizza! Of  course, this is not something you would read word for word, but I have used  it more than once to help me understand a play that I was about to see.  However, you need to set aside the better part of an hour to read the  article on the history and background of any one of his plays. There is  also plenty of info on his other writings, including the sonnets. Besides  visiting the reconstructed Globe theatre (which I have had the privilege of  doing), owning this book is the only other requirement for the serious  Shakespearean student/fan.<br />My sole complaint is that the lettering is  rather small (is is 7 pt or 8 pt? my eyes couldn't tell--ouch!). But hey,  what do you expect for $15? A 2,000-page book?	2000-07-28
US	50079159	RBU1FGRY5VWN6	0736900748	341780554	Encyclopedia of Cults and New Religions: Jehovah's Witnesses, Mormonism, Mind Sciences, Baha'i, Zen, Unitarianism (In Defense of the Faith)	Books	3	11	20	N	N	Feast or famine	Unlike the first volume, the authors are not as complete as they possibly could have been with the many different religions that they include in their book. In a sense, they have dedicated themselves to fully describing the more popular cults and, more or less, ignoring the smaller groups. I was frustrated when reading the description of some of the groups that were limited to less than a couple of pages. I guess I wanted more or nothing at all. Since the majority of the groups were limited in this way, I felt like I was nibbling tiny morsels when I really wanted bigger chunks. True, it is billed as an encyclopedia, which infers shorter articles, but then some of the religions were given such large spotlights (not all of them major cults). This gives the book an unbalanced feel. <br />I am also puzzled why the authors listed the Worldwide Church of God in the manner they did since this denomination has moved over to what most consider &quot;evangelical Christianity.&quot; They explain that there are still splinter groups that sprang from WCOG, and this is why it was included. I think this might be a bit unfair. Also, I'm puzzled why the Boston Movement (International Churches of Christ) was not an entry, especially since this has become one of the biggest cults on college campuses today. I think information on this group would have been most pertinent to the average reader who would want to better understood a fast-growing movement. Is there a reason why this was completely ignored?<br />Despite my whining, the authors did fully describe the JWs, Mormons, Christian Science, and several other of the larger cults. Perhaps the deficiencies listed above could be dealt with in a future volume.	2000-07-28
US	50079159	RZPJ8W6ZRFP3Y	0884940624	67668543	Mormon Doctrine	Books	3	25	64	N	N	The title says it all	I agree with Gene Fojtik's opinion of this book, as recorded in an earlier review. As an evangelical Christian, I do not agree with much (if anything) Mr. McConkie said as a Latter-day Saint apostle. Yet this man was an  authority who held one of the highest positions you could possibly have in  the LDS church, which is comprised of 10 million + adherents. Who better to  learn about LDS doctrine than from an LDS general authority? However, by  utilizing this encyclopedic book, the reader will notice that Mormonism and  evangelical Christianity are at polar opposites. Both cannot be true. One  must be false. <br />We must consider the words of McConkie very seriously,  then, and determine if he is speaking the truth as recorded in the Bible.  Having studied the issues out, I believe McConkie was very sincere, though  sincerely wrong in his doctrine. And, as Mr. Fojtik pointed out, he did  change his mind on certain teachings, including the black issue, as church  policy was reformed. While I disagree with his theology, I still believe  Mormon Doctrine is an important read for those who want to better  understand what Mormonism is all about.	2000-07-28
US	50079159	R3BB0N1RDKX8CE	0801011418	334677132	When Skeptics Ask: A Handbook on Christian Evidences	Books	5	64	74	N	N	Philosophical skeptics: Read!	I so much more enjoyed this book compared to Geisler's Christian Apologetics, partly because I found the latter to be very dry and dull. But this book is so much more readable, with good support of the points and  understandable to a general lay audience. It is also a good reference tool,  especially when dealing with agnostic/athiest friends and acquaintances.  The authors do a super job in supporting the Christian position. They don't  utilize lame argumentation, but rather, dig deeper at the issues to fully  back up their obvious Christian presuppositions. To the atheist reading  this, I challenge you to honestly and openly read this book and hold to  your current position. I think you will be surprised at the available  evidence for the Christian position.	2000-07-28
US	50079159	R2Y1XS5L4ORQ51	0801011426	908372456	When Critics Ask: A Popular Handbook on Bible Difficulties	Books	5	44	51	N	N	Buy it, put it on the bookshelf, and then use it	This is one of my favorite books of Bible difficulties (the other by Gleason Archer, Encyclopedia of Bible Difficulties). Although they cannot possibly cover every single difficult passage with very detailed  explanations, I have found the authors' exegesis to be very sound. They  consider the important elements to interpreting a passage, especially the  text's context and historical situation. Also, the biblical languages are  utilized in a very simple layman's style. I have been very satisfied by  their answers, and I rarely look up a difficult passage that was not  included in this book. (Hint: Be ready to look at the other synoptic gospel  accounts if the first passage is not listed.) <br />If you are looking for a  good reference book to answer biblical &quot;contradictions&quot; or  out-of-context prooftexts that supposedly support a very unbiblical  position, then this is your book. If nothing more, Geisler and Howe give  you some ideas of the proper interpretation, and then you can go look for  more information if it's not satisfactory. Nobody ever said that being a  Christian would ever be easy!	2000-07-28
US	50079159	R1LTTTJI6W2COE	0060663715	848970811	Mormon America: The Power and the Promise	Books	4	14	20	N	N	Well balanced, easy to read	This is a must-read for those who would like to better understand the Mormon religion. The authors are top-notch researchers who have plenty of journalistic experience covering the LDS Church. They tackled this project  with obvious objectivity, something that is difficult to keep when  approaching the religion from a certain theological bent (pro or con).  There is only one reason why I am giving this book just 4 stars (if 4 1/2  stars were possible, this is what I would have given it): There were no  footnotes, and the few endnotes were very difficult to follow. Since the  authors (publisher?) apparently did not want this to be considered a  research book (would sales really suffer because footnotes are present?--I  think not), the sources of the information (including quotes) were  impossible to trace. There were times I was very curious about the origin  of the research, but I was left wondering just where the information came.  Other than that, I highly recommend Mormon America to those who are just  curious about the Mormon religion and its unique history and teachings.	2000-07-14
