US	50078997	RQ6E2L583HJ8Y	0373836104	232833628	April Moon	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Three Talented Authors!	APRIL MOON is an anthology with an interesting concept - three stories taking place in April 1803 under an April Moon.  <br /> <br />Sailor's Moon by Merline Lovelace is a spicy sexy tale about the widow Lady Sarah Stanton. Her debts have led her to be engaged to Captain Sir James Lowell, a nasty and self-serving man. Now traveling on his ship, she realizes her mistake, but finds she is unfortunately under his control. The ship is taken over and boarded by American captain, Richard Blake, who has come to free his crewmembers who were taken by Sir Lowell and committed to his service. Sir Lowell forces Sarah to use her womanly wiles on Captain Blake in an effort to kill him. This backfires in the most delightful way. This story moves quickly and is a fun romp on the sea. Ms. Lovelace introduces sexy characters and fun villains.  <br /> <br />Susan King's White Fire is a smugglers tale and takes place on a moonlit Scottish coast. Jenny Colvin, searching for proof to halt her father's hanging, is stopped by the mysterious and brooding Sir Simon Lockhart. Once in love with him until he left abruptly four years ago, she finds she must turn to him to help save her father, aware that only this once-daring smuggler could save her father from the gallows. In love with Jock Colvin's daughter Simon is determined to have her forgive him for disappearing without a trace. Susan King weaves a sweet and engaging tale set against the Scottish coast and the light of that mysterious April moon.  <br /> <br />The Devil's Own Moon by Miranda Jarrett introduces us to Harry Burton, the Earl of Atherwall. On a bet he dresses as a highwayman to hijack a coach. Of course the coach he holds up is Sophie's, his long lost childhood love. Sophie now finds she needs an escort to her governess job and Harry is the only one to do the job.  <br /> <br />The Devil's Own Moon is a fun adventure, and is both humorous and engaging.  <br /> <br />All in all APRIL MOON is an extremely enjoyable light readby three talented writers!  <br /> <br />	2004-11-14
US	50078997	RQEUKYJSL7YUH	0451211286	7422775	My Forever Love	Books	5	9	11	N	N	Intelligent Historical Romance!	What is it about the Templar Knights that mystify us as readers of the historical romance genre? Is it that they are monks, or that they have taken a vow of celibacy? Perhaps it is that they are religious warriors that have taken up the sword for a cause. Whatever the reason for our great interest, author Marsha Canham takes us directly into the heart of this fascination with Templar Knight, Ciaran Tamberlane. Ciaran becomes disillusioned during his journey into the Holy Land, as innocent lives are slaughtered before him and everything he believes to be true about the Templar Knights is carelessly tossed aside by the heartless and merciless Knights he fights with. He can no longer watch the brutal killings and follows his own heart abandoning his sword and retreating into self-imposed exile back to England. As a reader, you can decide what you find so interesting about this sort of character. It definitely taps into our interest of the mysteryious Templar Knights as historical romance readers.  <br /> <br />Amaranth de Langois (Amie), has been married before to an old and abusive man, and upon being sold again to the highest marriage bidder, this time to the brutal Lord Odo, she has reached her limit of abuse and has decided to fight back by attempting to kill him. Amie, fleeing her vengeful husband, finds herself on Ciaran's land. Brutally attacked and wounded she is brought back to his castle and is cared for by Marak, a healer who nurtures her back to health.  <br /> <br />As these two tormented characters come together (Ciaran and Amie), their attraction is almost tangible. Author Marsha Canham builds up this story through excellent character development, not just with the central hero and heroine, but also with the secondary characters. This adds a dimension not often seen in historical romances where usually the focal point is on the hero and heroine.  <br /> <br />If you like intelligent historical romance that are filled with passion, action, and interestingcharacters then MY FOREVER LOVE is the book for you.  <br /> <br />Tara Green	2004-11-14
US	50078997	RVAV0OZ1M148Q	0843952334	630102821	The Last Rogue	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Randy hero makes for sexy fun!	Fans of Connie Mason will enjoy her latest book in her Rogue Series, THE LAST ROGUE. It continues in the same vein as the others, with a randy hero, Lucas Viscount Westmore who has sworn himself off sex and women after a bad experience with his last lover who turns up dead after trying to trap him into marriage due to her pregnancy with another man who appears to have abandoned her. He removes himself from English Society and retreats to a small village in Cornwall. There he meets the aptly named Bliss Hartley. Her beauty tempts him and his sworn celibacy quickly becomes a bane he must endure.  <br /> <br />The close lipped villagers are very protective of Bliss Hartley and her mysterious goings- on and soon set off warning bells for Luc when he realizes there is smuggling activities at work here and a mysterious person named Shadow is their ring leader. He realizes Bliss is involved and wants to protect her from the dangerous repercussions should she be caught. Claiming her as his fiance they soon marry and return to England.  <br /> <br />While someone is plotting to kill Lucas Bliss is called back to her village home where she is soon enveloped again in the snuggling intrigue.  <br /> <br />Connie Mason continues to weave fun, sexy and sensual books that are geared towards the historical romance reader fan that enjoys a good reading romp. As with her others in this series, this is sure to please and is a lot of fun to read. <br /> <br />Tara Green	2004-11-14
US	50078997	RS017JCFJY9GV	0373293070	995650729	The Countess Bride	Books	4	7	8	N	N	I Suggest Reading the First 2 Books First!	Another sequel to the outstanding THE DUMONT BRIDE by Terri Brisbin, THE COUNTESS BRIDE picks up with Catherine de Severin, the sister of William Royce de Severin and the pawn used to control him. Now, Catherine resides with Christian Dumont and his wife Emalie. These wonderful characters from THE DUMONT BRIDE appear again in this 3rd book in the series and revisiting them in this story is a nice tie-in. Catherine de Severin sees no future for herself. Her memory is muddled and her shadowed past haunts her. Her childhood love, Geoffrey Dumont, and young brother to Christian stands to inherit a powerful title and land. Now he seeks a bride and unfortunately Catherine is unfit. As his bride selections are brought before them his heart and mind turn again and again to his true love, Catherine. As she heads to the nunnery to commit herself to God, Geoffrey has other plans, as he sees her life is in danger and throws caution to the wind to save her. Against the wishes of his family he marries her. Still, their troubles are not over. Catherine again finds herself a pawn of high powers that have controlled her life. In many ways, this characters loss of innocence at the hands of others brings more than a touch of sadness to this story. As a reader who read each book in this series with a lot of time in between the next, I highly recommend reading these books in succession. THE COUNTESS BRIDE had me referring to THE DUMONT BRIDE, which I hadn't read in well over two years ago time and time again. To thoroughly enjoy these books they definitely should be read together and would not do well as stand alone stories. THE COUNTESS BRIDE continues in the style of Terri Brisbin's other stories, which are consistently well delivered, sensual with a strong enough dose of historical backdrop to satisfy most discriminating historical romance readers.  <br /> <br />Tara Green	2004-11-14
US	50078997	R2E53UUJK6O2YV	0451210646	542184409	Undone	Books	5	7	8	N	N	My Favorite Author Does It Again!	In Virginia Henley's much awaited new release, UNDONE, we meet two lovely sisters, Elizabeth and Maria. Both sisters are equally lovely but their mother Bridget favors Maria, the oldest, and sets her very ambitious sights on her. Since they are poor and Bridge comes from a theatrical background at first she trains both daughters to be actresses. As their prospects change, Bridget realizes she can set her sites higher and decides to enter society and present her daughters. To do this her husband must borrow huge sums of money, sell their family home, and present an air of wealth.     Elizabeth, who had met John Campbell quite by chance before moving to London, meets him again in society. They are drawn to each other and there is a very passionate connection between these two characters. Elizabeth, constantly overseen by her very dominate and controlling mother, finds herself maneuvered from party to party, and giving up lovely dresses to Maria, her sister, in her mother's effort to marry her off. Elizabeth, whose natural and genuine appeal shines through, befriends Charlie a very wealthy heiress and her beau Will, a friend of John's. As they plan many secret \\"couple rendezvous\\" events John and Elizabeth become closer. Meanwhile, Bridget continues to plan her daughters' future and as John leaves for Scotland and official business plans for Elizabeth to marry the very wealthy Duke of Hamilton. Realizing that John will never marry her, and the prospects of her family lie in her hands...she marries the Duke.     This story is lovely. Virginia Henley has reigned in her fiery pen to tantalize us with a subtler sensual tale than her previous works. Still filled with the steamy scenes we all expect from Ms. Henley, this story is presented to us at a slower pace, allowing us to get to know and care about the characters. Elizabeth's delightful innocence and growth into a strong woman who knows what she wants is an empowering tale for anyone to read who knows the progression from girl to womanhood well - and the trials and tribulations that shape a persons character.     UNDONE is not be missed!	2004-11-14
US	50078997	R77551R3A2VPZ	0964894238	565906782	The Forever Kiss	Books	4	44	48	N	Y	Chilling Vampire Rollercoaster Ride!	Prepare yourself for a violent ride in Angela Knight's latest book, THE FOREVER KISS. This romantic title actually yields a gritty vampire tale that chills you to the bone.     Valerie Chase's family was brutally murdered by a group of vampires when she was a young child. Her mother was savagely raped and killed, and her father's life sucked from him. Only herself and her younger sister survived, thanks to Cade McKinnon, another vampire on the scene who refused to kill her, even though his vampire master commanded that he do so.     Years later, Valerie is visited in her dreams by the man she knows as Cowboy. The Cowboy is her hero, who protects her as a child and later makes love to her.     As Edward Ridgeont, the diabolical vampire master, begins his pursuit of Valerie again and draws her to his mansion, Cade steps in to protect her. Though not as strong as his old vampire master, he is determined to protect Valerie.     This story is intriguing, however if you are looking for an erotica romance, this really isn't the book for you. Drawing away from the initial sensual nature this story begins with, this book is riddled with very gloomy and very graphic violence. Cade, the hero of the story, also has sex (I wouldn't say makes love though he seems to satisy the lady well enough) to an other woman and Valerie \\"sees\\" this in her dreams. For those of us who like monogamous stories once the hero and heroine meet, this is a real turn off.     For those of you who love vampire stories, this one is a fantastic one. The paranormal elements in this book are top notch. Angela Knight is an extremely profienct and talented writer.     So looking at this book from several angles, it fails as a \\"feel good\\" romance and even strips the fun out of the sensual nature however as a paranormal story it's one of the best I've read in a while. Not one to enjoy gratitious violence I think I'll read something a bit lighter next. I would not want to read several stories like this in succession. This is just a personal preference.     Warning -- extremely graphic violence and strong sexual content	2004-11-14
US	50078997	R1XGR3CYYKFY5T	0345459946	579928960	Heart of the Hunter	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Part Fairy Tale, Part Fantasy	Author Tina St. John, known primarily for her sensual historical romances, proves to be as adventurous in her writing as her main characters in this new release - HEART OF THE HUNTER.  <br /> <br />In another world and plane exist a people who live in peace and harmony. That is until one of their own fall people fall in love with a mortal man. This mortal man steals the Dragon Chalice, taking it to the Outside World, sending the people in turmoil.  <br /> <br />We meet Adriana in 1275 London, England. Adriana of Clairmont is desperately trying to reach her kidnapped brother Kenrick and deliver his ransom to his kidnappers. She has a satchel filled with his belongings, which contains his journals and notes. Unbeknownst to her they also will lead whoever reads them to one of the stones of the Dragon Chalice. Along the way she meets Braedon le Chasseur. Braedon is a dark and brooding man, known as The Hunter, scarred on one side of his face from a killing blow that has left him permanently marked. His enemies had wanted him dead and the fact he still lives is a surprise to many. Adriana finds herself over her head as she seeks passage to France and Braedon steps in to help her after her guard is murdered and she is at the mercy of those who would have what she carries for themselves. He finds himself on her journey with her and their destinies intertwined as they try to reach her brother. Through their journey Braedon self awareness grows as he discovers his special powers, which have given him the name The Hunter, come from a source even he was not aware of until now.  <br /> <br />Tina St. John introduces us to a new world in her most recent release, HEART OF THE HUNTER. Part fairy tale, part fantasy we meet shape shifters, Templar Knights, and men at odds with each other as they stop at nothing to find the stones of the Dragon Chalice. This is the start of a brand new medieval series. The \\"Dragon Chalice\\" series will consist of four books, connected through an ongoing quest for the legendary chalice and four precious stones.  <br /> <br />Though dubbed a historical romance, this book has very strong elements of fantasy and might be more appropriately placed in that category as it's leading sub-genre.  <br /> <br />This book was a delight to read -- both sensual, adventurous, and original. It's not your every day romance and Tina St. John has taken some unexpected chances that pay off, delivering a very satisfying story.  <br /> <br />Tara Green	2004-11-14
US	50078997	R20FGH1VKYCQID	0060508116	734187538	Fool for Love (Duchess in Love)	Books	5	13	15	N	N	Delightful Read	Illicit love letters, interesting secondary characters, and rich story telling pack this heavy hitter by Eloisa James.     Lady Henrietta Maclellan was born with a weak hip, and told she can never bear children and therefore cannot get married. Though she is a beautiful woman she never has a debut and must accept her plight of a marriageless and childless state. She longs to have children of her own and studies up on child rearing, runs a school for children, and keeps her own passionate nature carefully curtailed.     Enter Simon Darby. Handsome, rich and about to lose his fortune to an unborn heir, he is encouraged to marry. His two siblings, Josie and Anabel, under his care after the death of their parents make up his family and are charming secondary characters. Anabel, known for her weak stomach and Josie, the hot-tempered older sister, fill the pages with delightful scenes. Simon meets Henrietta and is drawn to her beauty, wit and charms. Deciding to marry her because he doesn't want children, he is told he can never take advantage of his marital rights, as it would put Henrietta at risk. He is put off by this and decides not to propose. Henrietta soon discovers from Esme (an experienced and very pregnant friend who has her own story interwoven into this primary one) that this is not the case and pregnancy can be prevented. It is a shocking course of action; very risqu at the time, but Henrietta is determined to marry Simon.     In order to force Darby into marriage Henrietta and Esme concoct a plan - to plant a love letter so damning that marriage would be inescapable. Here the fun begins..     FOOL FOR LOVE was a delight to read from start to finish with a wonderful ending. The chapter titles were also very entertaining with a unique manner of presentation	2004-11-14
US	50078997	R24EBCBSOZYR0S	0446614823	61962692	Forget Me Not (Navy SEALs, Book 1)	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Gritty Navy Seal Story!	This gritty novel seizes you from the first page and doesn't let you go until the last page is turned. With no holds barred author Marliss Melton sucks you into a world of intrigue, passion and suspense. Meet Gabe Renault. Gabe Renault, Navy Seal, returns to his life with no memory of what has happened to him. He knows he's been tortured, and shadowy figures haunt his dreams but he is unable to piece his memory together. In fact, he can remember nothing from the point before he meets his wife. His escape from a prison camp in North Korea is a shock to his wife and stepdaughter, who had been told he was dead. Helen Ranault, his wife, has pulled her life together, found a job, and finds a sense of peace with the death of Gabe, her neglectful husband. His return is a surprise, and not an entirely welcome one.  <br /> <br />In the course of this story, Gabe, the former \\"perfect Navy Seal\\" has returned to who he truly is. A man who is capable of great love and no longer fears that love. With all his self-imposed restrictions lifted he is finally able to discover what he had been pushing away and missing all along - his one true love. As his memory begins to fill in, he realizes he is involved in a plot that involves those he thought he could trust. Glimpses of his time in North Korea, his torture, who his captors are, and how he got there all begin to fill in.  <br /> <br />While there is a strong current of suspense that really pushes this story forward, it is the relationship between Gabe and Helen as well as Gabe and his stepdaughter that really grabs you.  <br /> <br />I look forward to more stories from this new author on the scene!  <br /> <br />	2004-11-14
US	50078997	RNWDH8PZ3D7SF	0743466500	931268881	The Price of Pleasure	Books	4	4	6	N	N	Sensual Tropical Tale!	Set in 1850, Victoria Dearbourne is marooned on a deserted island when her ship is wrecked in a terrible storm. Her mother's back broken, her father dead and Miss Cammy Scott her sole companion, Victoria learns to survive in the tropical environment. Spearing fish, building shelters and avoiding dangerous sailors becomes a way of life for her. Keeping a meticulous journal helps her to keep track of the passing time. She also has books and a few other items to help her maintain some connection with her former life.  <br /> <br />Captain Grant Sutherland, hired by Victoria's grandfather, is on yet another expedition to find the Dearbournes. Eight years have past but still Victoria's grandfather believes he will find his missing family. Captain Sutherland takes his mission very seriously. When they find the island Victoria is on, it proves much more difficult to rescue her than anticipated. No longer a lady of propriety, Victoria is an independent free spirit who wants to be rescued on her terms. Her companion, Cammy is sick and needs to leave and they eventually go with the Captain. As their attraction grows, Captain Sutherland tries to resist his feelings towards her, feeling a sense of duty and propriety must come first. Victoria, however, has decided she will have the handsome Captain!  <br /> <br />This sensual tale set in the tropics and later in polite English society holds you fast as you find yourself wanting to watch Victoria go from one setting to another and ultimately break down Captain Sutherland's resolve. Author Kresley Cole has provided the perfect read to escape with! <br />	2004-11-14
US	50078997	RS313SB5TKX43	0373292961	230965216	The Norman's Bride	Books	5	5	9	N	N	Delicious Sequel!	THE NORMAN'S BRIDE is the delicious sequel to the THE DUMONT BRIDE by Terri Brisbin.     Immediately upon starting this story the reader is sucked into the amazing world Terri Brisbin is able to create with her magical pen.     We meet \\"Isabel\\" who is brought to William De Severin's (now called Royce as he is hiding) doorstep. She is grievously wounded and has obviously been assaulted and left for dead. In fact, it is likely her attackers assumed she was dead her injuries are so serious.     As William helps nurse Isabel back to health it is apparent that she comes from noble birth. But why isn't her family looking for her? Why has no one heard of her death? Isabel, in turn, knows that William is no ordinary man, and has the training of a knight. Together these two pasts collide in this beautiful love story.     For those of you who have read THE DUMONT BRIDE where we first meet William De Severin, you might be surprised he is the hero of this story. Involved as a pawn and manipulated by threats to his family he is guilty of crimes including rape. Repentant and disgusted by his own past, William chooses to live a quiet life trying to escape the memories of his past. Ironically, \\"Isabel\\" wants to remember her past for she has lost her memory.     As bits and pieces of her former life do begin to emerge, we are transfixed by the magic of these two characters and their attraction to each other. Not only that, it is the unconditional acceptable by both of them that truly makes this a romantic and genuine love story. Isabel's mysterious past unravels to our delight in a satisfying conclusion.     Another book is set for this trilogy, entitled THE COUNTESS BRIDE, the story of William's sister. We wait with baited breathe for Terri Brisbin's next installment.	2004-11-14
US	50078997	R1ZXANH946MJ2W	0060092661	982289135	One Kiss From You: Switching Places #2 (Switching Places Series)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Delightful Read!	ONE KISS FROM YOU has made me totally intrigued and eager to read more of Christina Dodd's books.     The first few chapters of this book did not hook me, which proves one should always be patient when reading because they just might miss a delightful treat if they put the book down too soon.     This is the 2nd in a series by Ms. Dodd, and I have not read the first book. Eleanor de her cousin, Madeline, has sent Lacy to take her place in a betrothal to Remington Knight. Knight, an American, who has won Madeline from her father in a card game has a sinister plan of revenge against the de Lacy family. When Eleanor arrives Remington is drawn to her and is passionately attracted to her. The feeling is mutual and Eleanor, at first timid and meek, finds herself empowered in her new role as a Duchess and the subject of Remington's intense fascination. As their wedding arrives, Remington finds he has been duped and their relationship changes from one of need and revenge to one of love and necessity.     I found this story very sexy, fun, and fast moving after I passed the first several Chapters. Both characters were not what I initially expected, in particular Eleanor, and she proved to have some surprises up her sleeve.     I'm eagerly anticipating reading the 1st in this series now, Scandalous Again. ONE KISS FROM YOU is a delight and I strongly encourage you to pick up a copy. This would be a great holiday read during a leisure day by the fire.	2004-11-14
US	50078997	R11FNS3GHL5WF9	0451211839	152389042	Skylark (Company of Rogues)	Books	4	4	7	N	N	Ms. Beverley consistently delivers!	The latest addition to Jo Beverley's Company of Rogues series, SKYLARK, is another intelligent romance by this talented historical romance writer.  <br /> <br />The recently widowed is a devoted and fiercely protective mother. Suspecting there is a plot to kill her young son who is next in line as heir to the Gardeyne fortune, she quickly becomes suspicious of her former husband's brother whose own young son would be next in line.  <br /> <br />Sir Stephen Ball, a member of the Company of Rogues, enters Laura's life again. Before she married Stephen proposed awkwardly to her, ending their close friendship and relationship, which was very much a brother/sister type one. Now, he sees a second chance at love with the beautiful \\"Skylark\\", dubbed so by the songbird trilling during his first proposal.  <br /> <br />As the mystery of the Gardeyne Family unfolds Laura and Stephen rekindle their love for each other as they also uncover the secrets behind the suspected missing heir.  <br /> <br />As always Ms. Beverley's delivery of her stories appeals to the discriminating historical romance reader who enjoys a good story that is true to the time period.  <br /> <br />Tara Green	2004-11-14
US	50078997	R2C2Q39MZJRPH8	0446614254	365093099	The Runaway Duke (Warner Forever)	Books	4	11	15	N	N	"Run Away" With this Winner!	\\"Run away\\" with author Julie Anne Long as she takes us for a romp through the English countryside in her debut book THE RUNAWAY DUKE.  <br /> <br />Set in the early 1800s, Connor Riordan , the 5th Duke of Dunbrooke is mistaken for another while wounded in action in Waterloo. The body of another is thought to be his. Having endured an abusive father and smothering lifestyle, Connor finds this a liberating turn of events and leaves his former life as Roarke Blackburn behind him.  <br /> <br />Becoming the head groom in the Termaine household suits Connor just fine, and it is here where he meets Rebecca Tremaine, the daughter of his employer Sir Henry Tremaine. Connor and Rebecca find themselves close friends and confidants through the years, as Connor watches her grow from a young girl to a woman. Rebecca's quirky personality and unique ways endears her to Connor.  <br /> <br />Rebecca has a beautiful sister, Lorelei, who plans to meet Lord Edelston in the garden one evening. Rebecca plans to foil her sister's plan and shows up for their tryst in the garden. Lord Edelston, a preening dandy, mistakes her for her sister and kisses her. They are discovered by the household and Lord Edelston is forced to marry her as would be expected in this day and age if one was caught in a compromising position such as this one.  <br /> <br />Lord Edelston proves to be a very amusing character and a protagonist you almost feel certain affection for. Charmed by Rebecca's disdain for him, he begins to spout poetry and makes a fool of himself f in an attempt to win her heart.  <br /> <br />Rebecca plots her escape from this unwanted marriage and Connor offers to help her when he realizes he can never let her marry a man such as Lord Edelston, who is just after her money .The decision for Connor to flee with \\"Wee Becca\\" as he calls her is one that will propel him back to his past and his former identity. While realizing this, Connor cannot bear the thought of Rebecca in the arms of another man as his true feelings for her crystallize.  <br /> <br />Through adventurous mishaps, and misunderstandings Connor and Rebecca finally find true love in this very satisfying read. For a debut novel, the dialogue and writing is superb!  <br /> <br />Tara Green <br />	2004-11-14
US	50078997	R3GRUZEX41390R	037329316X	453329507	A Scandalous Situation	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Journey To Healing...	Setting - Cumberland, England 1807  <br /> <br />Iantha Kethley is a young woman who has been the victim of a violent gang rape just before her season. The rapists are \\"gentlemen\\" and therefore apprehending them initially proves difficult since social class limits questioning suspects unless there is evidence to justify such questioning. All Iantha knows of their identity is that they wore red scarlet masks, and smelled of a distinctive alcohol and tobacco. Because of the stigma associated with this sort of crime placed on a woman in this day and age, she retreats within herself and accepts she will not marry. One afternoon while in the hills painting she encounters Rob Armstrong otherwise known as Baron Duncan. He assists her during the snowstorm they find themselves in and takes her back to his castle. Once Rob is able to return Iantha to her family, he offers for her due to the improper nature of her staying the night at his home unattended. He sets it upon himself to help Iantha and also help himself, since he still grieves for the family he lost several years ago.  <br /> <br />The gang rape itself is not described in any graphic detail. As readers we only get a glimpse into what occurred. The actual motivation for the crime and why these men target Iantha is unclear throughout the book. There is talk of drugs, and a wild crowd but it would have been interesting to learn more about these seedy characters to add suspense and drama to this story. The story itself is more about Iantha's healing and her realization of herself as a strong woman.  <br /> <br />Ms. Patricia Frances Rowell treats the subject of rape quite compassionately and guides us through Iantha's journey to healing and finding her true passionate nature and emotions. With the help of Rob, Iantha finds love, acceptance and eventually strength in dealing with her past. There are some misuses of language that do not appear to be true to the time period and some rough patches to Ms. Rowell's writing style, in particular in the beginning of the story but in the end Ms. Rowell delivers a very satisfying story.  <br /> <br />Tara Green	2004-11-14
US	50078997	R97TCIJBPX8ZJ	0060502827	528726200	The Princess and Her Pirate	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Vomit, Virgins and Villains!	Vomit, Virgins and Villains! Does it get any better? <BR>Mistaken for a thief known as the \\"magical Megs\\", Princess Tatiana is held prisoner by the Pirate Lord Cairn McTavish. He's convinced she is this infamous thief and also lover to his rival and is intent on breaking her to his will and using her as a pawn to seek his revenge. Though we know Tatiana is a Princess and Cairn was once a pirate, we just aren't sure where Tatiana is from or when Cairn was ever a pirate. It's ok though because this story is so FUN! From the first chapter I was game for the wonderful ride Lois Greiman takes us on in THE PRINCESS AND THE PIRATE. This light book was a wonderful read that teases the reader by knocking out our hero just before they consummate their relationship. It was both amusing and entertaining. This book is a gem if you are looking for fun and silliness. You will find no heavy historical content however, so don't choose this story if that is what you are looking for. This one is PURE enjoyment from start to finish and a good break from more heavy storylines you may be reading.	2003-08-31
US	50078997	R3LU89YUL1PHAM	0060002069	774889342	The Lady Chosen (Bastion Club)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Stephanie Laurens burns up the pages...	Stephanie Laurens burns up the pages in her latest release THE LADY CHOSEN, first book in her new series entitled \\"WELCOME TO THE BASTION CLUB\\". <br />Ex-military men brought together by various circumstances and all needing to marry form the Bastion Club as a place of refuge from the demanding ton. This story is of Tristan Wemyss, Earl of Trentham who needs to marry in order to inherit his wealth. The men of the Bastion Club buy a home for their club in a quiet neighborhood and Tristan oversees the preparations. He first encounters Leonora Carling in her gardens. At first he watches her, admiring her from afar, and then meets her and finds himself immediately immersed in a mystery. <br />Leonora Carling, a woman past marrying at the age of 26 years old, is both lovely and intelligent. Someone has been trying to break into her home and other homes that share a wall in the neighborhood. Tristan and Leonora, with a common goal of catching the culprit find themselves tracking leads together. In doing so, their fiery attraction sparks and ignites. <br />The story takes a turn as the couple explores their newfound attraction and their affair finds themselves in all sorts of compromising situations - most notably on a Mahoney desk! Tristan is in hot pursuit to have Leonora as his wife, his \\"Lady Chosen\\", however she resists and refuses his offer of marriage. She long ago had set aside any plans for marriage and cherishes her independence and freedom to act as she wishes. Surrounded by academic men who rely on her to run the household, she has become set in her ways and marriage ideas put to rest long ago - until Tristan. But Tristan is not one to not get what he wants, and he wants Leonora. <br />The story clearly jumps from a mystery to a passionate affair quite abruptly. The focus of the story pivoting suddenly in this manner is almost like reading two stories in one. Once the love affair consummates the mystery of the break-ins, so crucial in the first few chapters, falls to the wayside. Ms. Lauren's deftly picks up soon after, but a meshing of these two storylines or at least a more subtle turn would be my only complaint to this wonderfully entertaining story. <br />Stephanie Lauren's has written a sizzling and sexy story of passion and love. The characters jump off the pages, and their attraction undeniable. I'm looking forward to the next in this series, due on September 2003, entitled A GENTLEMAN'S HONOR which will tell the story of Anthony Blake, Viscount Torrington and his bride. <br />**Cynster fans will be surprised and delighted to see a brief appearance by Devil Cynster himself in LADY CHOSEN.	2003-08-31
US	50078997	RVNQCATXXO1TK	0312848854	300640784	The Soul Thief	Books	4	9	11	N	N	A sweeping Viking Tale	This book from start to finish had me entranced. I believe this has to do primarily with Cecelia Holland being a truly gifted story teller. No matter where she took the story, I wanted to follow. <br />Corban's growth from a young boy to manhood, is swift as he is faced with the total destruction of his family. His connection with his sister leads him on his journey to save her, where he meets all sorts of people who will become important in his life.<br />The one part I did not enjoy in this book, was the telepathic connection with his sister. This book is rich in historical detail and I feel this detracted from the richness of the story.	2003-08-31
US	50078997	R1ZDJOTUXG209P	0821773437	581897164	A Twilight Clear	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Sleeper Romance	Set in Nottingham, England in 1164, this tale picks up after three years have passed since Willian and his wife, Catherine have wed. William de Macon, battle-scarred and tired, is finally returning home to his wife and daughter, who he hardly knows. However he brings with him a secret he must keep from his wife. In tow is the King, Henry Platnagenet's, pregnant mistress. In order to protect her, he sets the mistress up close to where his wife lives so he might protect her through the winter from Welsh spies. As he conceals the woman's identity from his wife Catherine de Macon and in doing so casts doubt on whether the woman is his own mistress. <BR>While I enjoyed Linda Cook's writing style rich in historical detail with good secondary characters, both real and fictional, it left gaps in time and development. William and Catherine share a daughter together yet hardly know each other. Budding passion developed over their first initial weeks together, but three years later they are virtually strangers. William is a worn-down warrior, scarred and limping, his glory days seem past. <br />The joy of seeing William as a doting father, and also as a fiercely protective loving husband still makes this a hero worth reading about. Catherine, a strong and devoted wife, also helps hold this story together. Though lacking in action and punch, this is still a good read with a definite uniqueness in its presentation.	2003-08-31
US	50078997	R1QG5DUK06I9QA	0060502827	528726200	The Princess and Her Pirate	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Vomit, Virgins and Villains!	Vomit, Virgins and Villains!  Does it get any better? <BR>Mistaken for a thief known as the \\"magical Megs\\", Princess Tatiana is held prisoner by the Pirate Lord Cairn McTavish. He's convinced she is this infamous thief and also lover to his rival and is intent on breaking her to his will and using her as a pawn to seek his revenge. Though we know Tatiana is a Princess and Cairn was once a pirate, we just aren't sure where Tatiana is from or when Cairn was ever a pirate. It's ok though because this story is so FUN! From the first chapter I was game for the wonderful ride Lois Greiman takes us on in THE PRINCESS AND THE PIRATE. This light book was a wonderful read that teases the reader by knocking out our hero just before they consummate their relationship. It was both amusing and entertaining. This book is a gem if you are looking for fun and silliness. You will find no heavy historical content however, so don't choose this story if that is what you are looking for. This one is PURE enjoyment from start to finish and a good break from more heavy storylines you may be reading.	2003-07-08
US	50078997	R35OX46TOOGUCR	0451408896	716530883	Secrets of the Night	Books	4	3	3	N	N	The steamiest  Malloren Story Yet!	Book 4 of the Malloren Series by Jo Beverley is the steamiest yet! <BR>Rosamunde Overton, married to an old gentleman unable to have children, must have an heir to rescue her state from the greedy hands of his zealot nephew. In order to do so she decides to request payment from Lord Brand Malloren who she rescues drugged on the road. <br />He complies willingly and the pages set fire! This book is sultry and seductive and has a distinctly earthly feel to it than other Jo Beverley's novels in this series. I enjoyed this book more than all the others, due to liking the character of Brand Malloren best, who is a good-natured and kind man, but doesn't hold back on loving his lady. <br />Rosamunde is scarred from an early childhood accident. To not show this scar and to also not reveal her identity she wears a mask throughout the seduction and Brand never knows who she is...until much later. <br />The story is very rich and Jo Beverley hits her high in her infamous Malloren Series with Book 4. This is the one book in the Malloren series still out of print. It should be reissued soon. Until then your local library or a used bookstore should have it. Warning though, Jo Beverley's books are collectibles so buying it used you could pay a steep price.	2003-06-30
US	50078997	RJAGHKQ1Q5ON2	0451199979	234694502	Devilish	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Surrender at last!	Finally Rothgar meets his match in Book 5 of the Malloren Series. <BR>Taking Diana Westmount, the Countess of Arradale, to London under the command of the King. Rothgar who has fought demons with the murder of his baby sister by his mother, has controlled himself in the effort to not carry on the insanity bloodlines he believes runs through him. However, he is unable to resist Diana, a strong female character almost unheard of Georgian England at this time. <br />Diana, the cousin of Rosamunde (Book 4  SECRETS OF THE NIGHT) is introduced in Book 4, while we have known Rothgar from Book 1. He is the force behind the Malloren Family and to read the story that goes with the man finally is great fun. <br />This book might be classified as an anti-climax in some respects. Now, Jo Beverley is a masterful writer and all her books are outstanding. DEVILISH however was an almost dreaded read. Could this be that the reader places Rothgar on a pedestal like a hovering mother, and disapproves of all matches? Could this be because it seems to signify the end of the Malloren series? Not to worryJo Beverley will release WINTER OF FIRE this fall to the relief of many fans Im sure. <br />If you like spicy Georgian-era romances, there is no one who writes these better than Jo Beverley. Strong advisement is to start with Book 1 though, not Book 5. <br />Long live the Mallorens!	2003-06-30
US	50078997	R24OLZL0SP5KE5	082177347X	499361031	Tempting Fortune	Books	4	18	21	N	Y	Enter the world of the gambler	Enter the world of the gambler - where stakes are high and all could be lost or gained at the turn of a card. Portia St. Claire's brother, Oliver is an addicted gambler who loses their estate. In order to try to pay off the debt, Portia and her brother travel to London to ask for help from a family friend. <BR>Bryght Malloren, 2nd in line to the Malloren Fortune is on family business to attempt to retrieve a damning letter in the home of the Earl of Walgrove. He finds instead the short, fiery Portia St. Claire instead who holds a pistol on him and demands he leaves. Sparks fly immediately between these two. <br />This good is interesting on several levels. First it very accurately portrays the addiction to gambling, the inability to control it, and the dangers of bidding beyond your means. Secondly, and completely unassociated the characters and secondary characters each hold their own weight, are interestingly created and weaved into the story. Unlike the 1st Malloren book (MY LADY NOTORIOUS), Rothgar, the head of the family does not overshadow Bryght who in his own right is sensual, intelligent and handsome. Portia, though not a traditionally beautiful woman has such a fiery nature, though perhaps a bit prudish and still, is a nontraditional heroine. <br />Though Portia is actually auctioned in a Brothel at one point, for her virginal qualities this book is much lighter on explicit sex then it's predecessor and indeed the story seems much richer. However, perhaps it is that you truly began to care about this family. And this being book 2, you get to know and like them a lot more!	2003-06-30
US	50078997	R11R2FJPP9L029	0451407806	36208249	Something Wicked	Books	3	3	5	N	Y	Aptly titled SOMETHING WICKED	The aptly titled SOMETHING WICKED is the 3rd book in the Malloren Series by Jo Beverly. This story tells the tale of Lady Elfled (Elf) Malloren and Fortitude Ware, Earl of Walgrave. Both characters are introduced in the previous books so their personalities are not unknown to us. Fort is the sister to Chastity Ware (Book 1) and Elf is the sister to the Malloren brothers.<br />Elf decides she would like some adventure and proceeds to attend a masquerade as the French \\"Lisette\\". She stumbles upon a treasonous plot and finds her adventure to be more than she bargained for. None other than the Earl of Walgrave is part of it. Fort, introduced to us in Book 1 (MY LADY NOTRIOUS) as a somewhat harsh brother to Chastity, including slapping her in the face for her supposed indiscretion, is still quite harsh and cold. To protect Elf (who he only knows as Lisette) he takes her back to his house and ties her up, after Elf refuses his seductive advances. To complicate matters Fort hates all things Malloren, and blames them for the death of his father, or more accurately causing him to shoot his own father dead.<br />This story is quite enjoyable, and Fort eventually finding release from his guilt in the arms of Elf explained a lot about his motivations and character.	2003-06-30
US	50078997	R1VKFX2J5JDYDA	0821764012	69516189	An Arranged Marriage (Zebra Historical Romance)	Books	4	28	35	N	Y	Straining the boundaries of political correctness ...	This is the first romance novel I have read where the hero spends at least 3/4 of the book sleeping with another woman. <BR>Jo Beverley strains the boundaries of political correctness in AN ARRANGED MARRIAGE, her most controversial story I have read to date. There is no denying Ms. Beverley is a master storyteller and perhaps because of this political incorrectness she delivers a powerfully fresh stage for her story. <br />Eleanor Chivenham is drugged by her manipulative brother and raped by an equally drugged Lord Delaney. Lord Delaney hazed into the brutal act and not quite having his wits about him completes the deed but comes back the next day to find out exactly what happened. Upon meeting Eleanor planning to jump to her death, and understanding a child might come from this act, concocts a story that it was actually his twin brother Nicholas Delaney who stole her maidenhood. A marriage is arranged, and Eleanor and Nicholas are soon married. <br />She quickly discovers that it was not Nicholas who raped her, but his brother. Nicholas, a charming and handsome man is soon off spending time with his mistress. Serving his country, Nicholas is actually involved in a plot to foil the mistress who is involved in Napoleonic activities. Eleanor finds she is with child and also that she loves her dreadfully neglectful and cheating husband. Nicholas, knowing he will be gone most of the time, has surrounded her with his Company of Rogues, a group of handsome and dashing young men to act as her protectors and escorts. <br />The hero Nicholas is not one I liked much at all. His sleeping with this mistress for the greater good of the country and at the expense of his marriage is hard for any woman to swallow I think. The very idea that this romance began in a rape, although not by the \\"hero\\" is still distasteful and gives a dark shadow over the entire story. That said, the story is incredibly engaging and tightly woven from start to finish and is a very entertaining read. Jo Beverley once again takes us for a ride and doesn't let go until the end. <br />This is Book 1 in Jo Beverley's Company of Rogues Series.	2003-06-30
US	50078997	R315PK8A7ZYU17	0446612804	820561124	Don't Tell	Books	5	28	32	N	N	Riveting story	DON'T TELL moves at a barrel neck pace and is a riveting story spun by new romantic suspense author Karen Rose. <BR>Rob Winters, a corrupt cop, is brutally violent and doesn't hesitate to exploit his position as a police officer to abuse, maim and even kill those that cross his path. For years his own wife, Mary Grace Winters, is held in his grasp as he pummels her time and time again. After too many visits to the hospital Mary Grace meets several nurses that inspire her to leave. <br />Plotting the death of herself and her son 9 years ago was her first step in escaping her abusive husband. Caroline Stewart has started a new life for herself and her son and with the help of her friend Dana, who heads a shelter for battered women has created a future. Dana is a tough cookie, always there to lean on, and to push Caroline during difficult times. <br />Max Hunter, her new boss and head of the history department enters her life like a clap of thunder. He's devastatingly handsome, tall, and muscular. He also has a handicap and walks with the help of a cane. Going through his own personal private battles he also is making a new start. <br />There is instant intense chemistry between Max and Caroline, and for the first time in her life Caroline finds a man she can trust. <br />However, the car she sent into the river has been found and Rob, her husband, is now on the hunt for her son and for Caroline. <br />Prepare for the hair to stand on end at the back of your neck, as you follow Rob's methodical hunt for her wife. As Caroline begins her new life with Max, he is ever closer to destroying it all. <br />Tom, her son, is a strong young male character, deeply protective of his mother while exuding his sadness over their past. Tom is one of many rich secondary characters you learn to care about in this captivating debut suspense by author Karen Rose. <br />Prepare yourself for a story that pulls you in and does not let go until the last page is turned.	2003-06-30
US	50078997	R23DE5AO8JVZPW	0821764012	69516189	An Arranged Marriage (Zebra Historical Romance)	Books	4	4	7	N	Y	Straining  the boundaries of political correctness...	This is the first romance novel I have read where the hero spends at least 3/4 of the book sleeping with another woman.<br />Jo Beverley strains the boundaries of political correctness in AN ARRANGED MARRIAGE, her most controversial story I have read to date. There is no denying Ms. Beverley is a master storyteller and perhaps because of this political incorrectness she delivers a powerfully fresh stage for her story.<br />Eleanor Chivenham is drugged by her manipulative brother and raped by an equally drugged Lord Delaney. Lord Delaney hazed into the brutal act and not quite having his wits about him completes the deed but comes back the next day to find out exactly what happened. Upon meeting Eleanor planning to jump to her death, and understanding a child might come from this act, concocts a story that it was actually his twin brother Nicholas Delaney who stole her maidenhood. A marriage is arranged, and Eleanor and Nicholas are soon married.<br />She quickly discovers that it was not Nicholas who raped her, but his brother. Nicholas, a charming and handsome man is soon off spending time with his mistress. Serving his country, Nicholas is actually involved in a plot to foil the mistress who is involved in Napoleonic activities. Eleanor finds she is with child and also that she loves her dreadfully neglectful and cheating husband. Nicholas, knowing he will be gone most of the time, has surrounded her with his Company of Rogues, a group of handsome and dashing young men to act as her protectors and escorts.<br />The hero Nicholas is not one I liked much at all. His sleeping with this mistress for the greater good of the country and at the expense of his marriage is hard for any woman to swallow I think. The very idea that this romance began in a rape, although not by the \\"hero\\" is still distasteful and gives a dark shadow over the entire story. That said, the story is incredibly engaging and tightly woven from start to finish and is a very entertaining read. Jo Beverley once again takes us for a ride and doesn't let go until the end.<br />This is Book 1 in Jo Beverley's Company of Rogues Series.	2003-06-26
US	50078997	R1NXMIOVTZELNC	0804119627	735248658	White Lion's Lady	Books	5	32	35	N	N	Exciting medieval romance!	Prepare yourself for an exciting medieval romance you will not want to put down.<br />WHITE LION'S LADY is the 1st in a 2 part series.<br />Eighteen year old Isabel de Lamere, ward to the Crown, is on her way to her betrothed, Sebastian Montborne (who you will read about in BLACK LION'S BRIDE). On her way to the Montborne's she is abducted by Griffin, the White Lion. She does not realize at first that this is the man who she met first as a boy, the boy whose medallion she carries everywhere she goes. The boy she remembers represents honor and chivalry. <br />Unfortunately Griffin has become a hardened man, made to carry out tasks that are distasteful and each day wear at his soul. His evil step-brother now sets him out on the task of kidnapping Isabel. Upon returning Isabel to his step-brother, and being denied the bounty promised him, Griffin and Isabel escape and continue on to her betrothed. During this time, they fall into a forbidden love.<br />Tina St. John weaves an enchanting tale of love, acceptance, and high adventure. The chemistry between these two characters sizzles, and it is a delightful read that you won't want to miss.	2003-06-20
US	50078997	R1HUCBY61MBOVH	0373790945	670741628	Between the Sheets (Harlequin Blaze, 90)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Very sexy hero!	Our heroine, April Stevens, is an accident waiting to happen. Jumpy and nervous, she finds she is more comfortable behind the computer screen doing research than dealing with people. However, she works for an investigative company and is sent out on an assignment to play a marketing assistant to the sexy Rex Holt. As it turns out Rex is a consultant studying a new line of very sexy sheets and sex is on the mind of everyone in the company. More so now that there is an email stalker out there spamming messages about workplace sex. April is there to make sure Rex is not the culprit. <BR>As they go on assignment, April brings the risqu sex gear with her through the airport terminal, comically dropping all of it out on the ground for all to see. To make matters worse, her bag is emptied out for all to see at a checkpoint. <br />This light and sexy story is sure to bring a smile to your face. Rex Holt is an incredibly sexy hero, who is very attentive to the nervous April. He's determined to put her at ease with massages and sex play. It soon turns into a serious relationship and a loving end. This book is a light treat full of sexy play by play, making for a pleasant afternoon read!	2003-06-20
US	50078997	R2L64UX2959DLM	0060097701	216952260	The Crimson Lady	Books	4	14	14	N	N	Powerful Story!	THE CRIMSON LADY has one of the most eye-catching and beautiful book covers of the year. If that doesn't grab your attention, the story will. Mary Reed McCall has written an emotional story of innocence stolen and how love can be found in the depths of despair. <BR>Sold at 15 to Lord Draven, Fiona Bryne's innocence is stolen from her and she is turned into \\"The Crimson Lady\\". She becomes known as a notorious courtesan and thief, her escapades legendary, her sensual techniques known far and wide. <br />Braiden de Cantor, a dishonored knight, who coincidently happens to also be Draven's nephew, seeks her in order to rescue his foster sister who has been sold into prostitution. Finding Fiona, he forces her to accompany him to her former band of outlaws in order to teach him how to first survive by thievery in order to raise money to rescue his foster sister and then to take him to the stewes to retrieve his foster sister. <br />Fiona (called Giselle as the crimson lady) is a deeply emotionally scarred woman. At the hands of Draven she experienced a powerless and debilitating weakness one might feel when under the power of another. She was never allowed to give freely of her emotion or affections and believes she will never have those things she wants most. <br />Braeden is a warm and sensitive man who falls under Fiona's spell. Her beauty matches her legendary reputation but her demeanor does not. Braeden sees past the facade to the true woman beneath. <br />There are several very emotional scenes in this book, one being where Braeden and Fiona first make love. As a warm rain falls, symbolically cleansing Fiona of her past violations with Draven, they make love, and a deep affection develops between these two characters. <br />There are plot stumbles, as there are too many coincidences to make the story entirely plausible. The writing at times is not developed enough to fully engage the reader, however the story is a powerful one. Ms. McCall has written an original story for romance readers, with more depth than one might be used to. Mary Reed McCall, who has several books under belt, seems to still be a developing talent. This book is both enjoyable and original.	2003-06-20
US	50078997	R3ETJRNUQXJ6RV	0451206444	118302686	My Lady Notorious	Books	4	32	32	N	Y	Gender Bending And Tawdry Fun!	This 1st book in the Malloren Series by Jo Beverley includes gender bending, cross-dressing, seduction, and adventure. What a combination! Though the first quarter of the book is slow-moving if you are patient you will see it is only the beginning of a very multi-layered and enjoyable tale. <br />We are first introduced to Cyn Malloren as his carriage is hijacked by Lady Chastity Ware dressed a highwayman. Desperate to help her widowed sister and baby escape the man intent on taking her child from her, she resorts to thievery in order to aid her sister's plight.<br />However, Cyn is bored and wishing for adventure and is a willing victim. Immediately noting \\"Charlie\\" is not truly a man he is intrigued and willing to go along for the ride.<br />We are introduced several times to the head of the Malloren Family, Rothgar, a charismatic man who is both bold and one we find dipping in the snuff quite a bit! What might be a major flaw in the story is the very overshadowing of the hero Cyn by his more intriguing brother. There is no fault in the character build up of Lady Chastity who proves to be both passionate and a victim of her father's cruelty, however Cyn comes across as a much lighter version of his brother. Rothgar had a previous tryst (although fairly innocent) with Lady Chastity and there seems to actually be a rather deep connection between the two of them. <br />The much talked about LADY NOTORIOUS, the 1st book in Jo Beverley's Malloren Series, was not at all as I expected. Perhaps a book and series with such a reputation must perform immediate miracles or one is disappointed. Rest assured, this book picks-up<BR>tempo quite swiftly mid-way and was indeed a joy to read.  The sensual scenes becoming quite explicit, and due to the beginning being a rather slow and innocent tale, you can see that Ms. Beverley has merely played you into her talented hands. The story engulfs you in it's fun, depth, and layers. <br />The 2nd book in the Malloren Series, TEMPTING FORTUNE, tells the story of Lord Arcenbryght Malloren and Portia St. Claire.	2003-05-24
US	50078997	R5HPCJU8HB988	0440237122	486589927	The Bride Thief	Books	4	2	2	N	N	An enjoyable romp	THE BRIDE THIEF is an amusing and warm tale. Samantha Briggeham is a spinster with varying unusual interests. She enjoys science and astronomy to name a few of her very unconventional pursuits for a woman in the early 1800s England. Her family in attempt to end her marriage-less state, promise her to an old man who she does not want to marry. With spectacles in place, she goes to break of her engagement and succeeds. On her way home, however, the infamous Bride Thief rescues her! Having her of her predicament, Eric Landsdowne, the handsome and sensual thief, has once again saved the day...or so he thinks. <BR>Finding himself in the strange situation of having saved a bride-to-be who has already saved herself, he returns the beguiling woman to her family. However, their paths continue to cross in interesting ways throughout this story. <br />This is an enjoyable romp that is also quite sensual and romantic. Historical Romance Writers highly recommends Jacquie D'Alessandro's tale for those who enjoy humor and fun with this romance!	2003-05-17
US	50078997	R3UO4H91G86LMA	0060519703	165387113	Once He Loves	Books	4	2	2	N	N	ONCE HE LOVES is a book not to be missed!	Raw sensuality combined with a story rich in historical detail gives this book high marks from HistoricalRomanceWriters.com! <BR>Set in 1072 York, England ONCE HE LOVES takes you on a journey of passion, vengeance, and love. Briar aims to destroy Radulf, the knight who destroyed her life years ago. His attendance at the nobleman's great hall where she is to perform gives her the opportunity she has been waiting for. Using her gift of song to entrance him she sends out a very bold message, that she wants him and will have him. Her hope is for Radulf to betray his wife, Lilly, knowing this will destroy his life completely. <br />After a night of passion, Briar soon finds she has seduced the wrong man! Ivo de Vessey, one of Radulf's knights, is the man who falls under her spell and he is not going to let go easily. Ivo is a former knight, his hand disfigured, but he exudes danger and an attraction Briar finds undeniable. Briar instead decides to wield Ivo to her biding and exact revenge that way, though she finds she is at the mercy of the seductive pull Ivo has on her. <br />There are ties to Ms. Bennett's previous books, THE LILY AND THE SWORD and THE ROSE AND THE SHIELF though this book stands alone as a wonderful and fast-paced tale. <br />This book is more sensual than Ms. Bennett's previous books, and it is a daring move that puts Ms. Bennett's in the same category as Virginia Henley, another master who weaves romance, sensuality and history together to make the ultimate historical romance experience. Sara Bennett continues to be one of our favorites here at Romance Designs and with this book, we feel she is only getting better and better over time. <br />ONCE HE LOVES is a book not to be missed!	2003-05-17
US	50078997	RUMBLEUX5ZPMM	0060509325	641921275	Prisoner of My Desire	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Wonderful Escapism	Ms. Lindsey has a magical way of taking unlikely situations, implausible circumstances, and making you believe that it is a stunning, superb story line like no other. This is her gift and her books are wonderful escapism from daily life. She is one of the few romance authors who write what readers WANT to read, not what are politically correct and acceptable social norms. PRISONER OF MY DESIRE is no exception and is a great reader escape. <BR>Rowena Belleme is forced to marry Godwine Lyons, Lord of Kirkburough, a very old and decrepit man, in order to secure her lands by producing an heir by her cruel stepbrother, Gilbert. Finding herself on her virginal wedding bed, her old husband surprisingly dies on the spot. In order to ensure she produces and heir Gilbert has his men find a man similar hair and eyes to replace the deceased as the father of her child. <br />Rowena finds herself forced to seduce the man chained to her bed, a handsome man with strong features and body. Warrick de Chaville is no serf however, Dragon of the North, the Lord of Fulkhurst, he is a man not to be trifled with. But trifle with him Rowena will! Ms. Lindsey flips the tables, placing the heroine in a position of power. <br />When Warrick makes his escape he vows to exact revenge on Rowena and when he returns, taking the Rowena prisoner he does exactly that. <br />There are many love/hate elements in this story and through if you step back and say, \\"this is appalling\\" you'll quickly step back into the story with delight. It's fascinating and intoxicating read. <br />This book originally was published in 1991 but has been reissued this year in a collectible hardback, testament to the popularity of Johanna Lindsey and her delightful books filled with the unexpected and fun. If you are looking to be swept away, this is the book for you!	2003-05-17
US	50078997	R2FLZUFRJPFQJQ	0446610321	5542264	Hidden Heiress (Secret Clan)	Books	3	5	5	N	N	Emphasis on detail	The Secret Clan: Hidden Heiress is masterfully put together by author Amanda Scott. Weaving faeries, falconry, and mortal romance this story is a slow-paced but satisfying read. <BR>Acting as a spy Patrick finds himself searching for the missing heiress Bessie, who everyone assumes is dead. His chance meeting of Elspeth while hiding from pursuers brings him to Farnsworth Tower, where he takes up the post of falconer. Ms. Scot's meticulous attention to detail on the training of the falcon is thorough and complete. It is one of many ways the authenticity of the times comes to life on the pages of this book. <br />Elspeth is a maidservant and mistreated by her &quot;step-sisters&quot;, much like Cinderella, with even one sister named Drusilla, a great name choice for this very annoying character. She has no memory of her well-born status prior to life at Farnsworth. <br />This book moves two mortals' paths by a magic they are unaware of. The Faerie element is entertaining and lends comic relief to an otherwise serious toned story. <br />The sequel to ABDUCTED HEIRESS, this book stands alone as a good read. It's slow-moving pace, with an emphasis on detail rather than on conflict makes it a sleeper hit for those looking for a quiet read.	2003-05-17
US	50078997	RR2WLCMFRYOK8	0843951338	198474209	Perils of the Heart	Books	3	8	9	N	N	Spinster turned seductress	Taking place in 1790 PERILS OF THE HEART takes the reader on whirlwind journey with debut author Jennifer Ashley on the Atlantic, to Havana, to Boston, and finally to China. Political intrigue, evil villains and innocents caught in the plot set the stage for this fun romp. Meet spinster Evangeline Clemens, told by the evil Anna Adams, her brother's lover, that she is anything but appealing but she will have to do in her role as seductress. Threatened with violence Evangeline finds herself cast as seductress. Evangeline is coerced into participating in a mutiny by Anna Adams, who plans to rescue her lover being held captive in a Spanish prison. Faced with the very appealing and dangerous Captain Blackwell, Evangeline kinds herself over her head and completely disarmed by the appealing man. <BR>No dowdy spinster under the unbecoming clothes, Captain Austin Blackwell finds himself entranced by the luscious Evangeline, spectacles and all! Many sweet and amusing scenes fill the pages of Jennifer Ashley's first book. Often times I found myself smiling as Evangeline found her spectacles askew on her face after thoroughly being kissed by the captain of the merchantman Aurora. <br />Realizing he's been duped, Captain Blackwell confines Evangeline but finds his thoughts straying time and time again to her. Is she a British spy or is she being used by Anna Adams? On a mission for the American Colonies Austin believes her to be a saboteur. Carrying precious documents, Captain Blackwell can't be too careful. <br />This is a fun and enjoyable story. Jennifer Ashley introduces lively adventure, wonderful characters and a satisfying story. I look forward to reading more stories by this new author.	2003-05-17
US	50078997	R3UZ3HJW4UI730	0440237440	820531904	Song from the Sea	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Spiritual, sensual, and light!	Adam Carlyle rows out to sea to end his life. It's the perfect end to end his grief and despair and at the same time not allow the next in line, Harold Carlyle, to claim his vast fortune. <BR>Adam comes upon a large ship moving at a quick pace. He hears a beautiful song and his attention turns to the ship's stern. There he watches in horror as Callie Melbourne jumps into the water. <br />Realizing his suicide plans have been thwarted for the moment, he sets out to rescue her. When he rows her back to his home, he discovers she has lost her memory. He gives her refuge in his home and quickly becomes intent on helping Callie with her problems. Adam's close friend soon finds out she was sent to England from America to marry Harold Carlyle, a fat and despicable young man who is none other than Adam's cousin. <br />Adam is fighting demons from his past. He tragically lost his wife and child to a hunting accident and blames himself for not being there to protect them. Callie brings him back to the living, and gives him purpose. <br />This uplifting story is spiritual, sensual, and light. This is a beautiful and captivating story.	2003-05-17
US	50078997	R3IB5NJEPLW6F	0843951346	653138636	Seduced by a Rogue	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Predictable but...it's still Connie Mason ;-)	Book 2 of The Rogues of London series by Connie Mason introduces us again to Ramsey Dunsmore, Earl of Braxton. The Foreign Office has called upon him for his help in finding a valuable amulet that the Egyptian government wants back. In order to avoid an international political disaster, he is enlisted to seduce Phoebe Thompson in order to find out where the amulet is. <BR>Phoebe Thompson, who has only recently returned to London after 4 years in Egypt, is desperately searching for her Egyptologist father who is missing. Not only that, he is being accused of taking the amulet. <br />SEDUCED BY A ROGUE does not have a prologue and it is desperately in need of one. There is a lot that has happened that the reader has to catch up on quickly, without the benefit of knowing these characters and why it is likely they might have fallen in love with each other in the first place. Ramsey and Phoebe were married four years ago, but they only shared one night of marital bliss before their entire relationship comes crashing down around them. A close friend convinces Phoebe that Ramsey is a womanizer and she leaves him immediately to go with her father to Egypt, not to return until 4 years later. <br />The story is very predictable, and the characters very one-dimensional. It's light and fun reading, but there are no surprises here. Without the benefit of a prologue or backing the story up four years, much of the development of this couple is missing.	2003-05-17
US	50078997	R3FKBTYSJLEBDK	0373292538	719674962	Adam's Promise	Books	3	15	15	N	N	Warm and enchanting tale!	From Yorkshire England to stunning Nova Scotia, take a journey rich with romance and forbidden love with Madeline Oxley and Adam Coates. <br />Taking place in 1775 and spanning two countries, this tale begins with Madeline Oxley believing she is to marry Adam Coates, her sister's former suitor. When her sister instead chooses class over love, and marries someone else, Adam leaves for Nova Scotia and has several children with another wife. <br />Madeline's father receives a letter from Adam asking for her hand in marriage, Madeline is surprised but believes it to be true. Her father, who is ashamed of her due to a scandal that left her unmarriable, sends her quickly on her way to Adam's home. <br />When Madeline arrives she quickly discovers that Adam did not request Her hand in marriage, but her widowed sister Diana's. <br />Humiliated and finding herself weeks from her own home, Madeline stays with Adam while she figures out what she is going to do. In the meantime, he writes her father to bring the correct bride over. <br />This warm and enchanting tale is a full of rich characters, and a family held together by love and devotion. Madeline and the sexy Adam Coate find themselves drawn to each other in a deep emotional bond. When Madeline's sister Diana arrives, she contracts strikingly with Madeline. Though she is beautiful on the outside, her true fickle personality shows through. As Madeline and Adam fight their feelings, Diana quickly discovers something is afoot. <br />Ms. MacLean has delivered a wonderful story not to be missed! HistoricalRomanceWriters.com highly recommends this story, as it will warm your heart.	2003-05-17
US	50078997	R3NYYP1QRBZSIV	0440235510	746311637	Whirlwind Wedding	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Humor and Warmth Makes This A Wonderful Read!	Austin Randolph Jamison, Ninth Duke of Bradford meets the refreshing Elizabeth Matthews, an American bluestocking with psychic abilities. Elizabeth is a warm and intelligent character whose amusing characters lightens up Ms. D'Alessandro some what serious story. Austin believes his brother to have died a traitor's death at Waterloo. Soon after he begins receiving blackmail notes threatening to expose his brother's disgrace. However, Elizabeth, with her special visions, insists he is still alive. <BR>At a house party at the Duke of Bradford's country residence these two unlikely characters meet. Elizabeth is in the process of rescuing a kitten in the bushes, her skirts and hair askew when the two first meet. When Austin finds she is not intrigued with his title or money he becomes intrigued. Elizabeth warns him of danger and insists he does not ride out alone. When the Duke ignores her warnings and Elizabeth attempts to rescue him, a compromising situation ensues which leads to their \\"whirlwind wedding\\". <br />This story is full of humor and warmth and is a wonderful read. Both characters, in particular Elizabeth, leap from the pages and are original and sweet. This is a wonderful story not to be missed!	2003-05-17
US	50078997	RLK6DA31BOKW3	045120767X	653790913	Scandal	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Proper Society with a lusty edge	SCANDAL is the first book by Heather Cullman I have read and I was delighted to receive this advanced reading copy with a beautiful pink bow encasing the papers. After reading this story, I truly feel as if I was given a gift. <BR>Rich in history and culture of late 18th Century England, I found myself immersed and completely enraptured by this story. This regency romance, supported by brilliant characterizations and characters motivated by the love of their siblings, is both believable and captivating. <br />Gideon Harwood, a commoner who has recently returned from India as a self-made wealthy man is in search of his lost brother. Discovering a secret about London's most influential aristocrats, Lord Stanwell, he finds himself bribed for his silence. Desiring proper acceptance and social standing for his siblings, Gideon finds himself engaged to Lord Stanwell's very proper daughter, Lady Julia. Lady Julia, having no say in the matter, is told she must make it appear a love match for Gideon Harwood to truly be accepted into society. <br />Proper society and rigid social etiquette gives way to a lusty and passionate love affair. Prepare yourself to fall in love with this wonderful story by Ms. Cullman. I look forward to reading more of her books, and feel Ms. Cullman is a true star of the historical romance genre, capturing all elements necessary to make it a wonderful experience for the reader.	2003-05-17
US	50078997	R27K54SM323TNI	0440212561	983256815	Outlander	Books	2	20	34	N	N	Did I miss something?	This book takes place in 1945 and is based around Claire Randall, a combat nurse who has recently returned from the war. The story starts out with Claire and her husband, Frank, visiting Scotland in an attempt to rekindle their marriage, where most of their time has been spent apart. <BR>Claire finds herself catapulted back to 1743, Scotland where she meets and marries James Fraser, a young Scot clansman, whose relationship with his Clan MacKenzie Uncles is riddled with mystery. <br />Her adventure in time starts out by running into her future nemesis, Captain Jonathan Randall, who amusingly looks just like her husband she has left behind in the 1945 Scotland. She is quickly rescued by the Clan MacKenzie. The story begins well but quickly falters from here on. <br />To escape the hands of Captain Jonathan Randall, Claire must marry Jamie. Initially you can believe these two characters might fall in love until Jamie Fraser beats Claire for not obeying him. Claire, having left one husband in the future, does not hesitate to enter into this other marriage with Fraser. The unbelievable acceptance of her fate is a major flaw in this time travel story. <br />The story is slow moving and the plot develops in a predictable way. <br />If you are looking for a Scottish adventure with sword play and romance, I do not recommend this book.	2003-05-17
US	50078997	RWI79IMHOZIYT	0451408012	317232401	Lord of Midnight (Topaz Historical Romance)	Books	3	4	4	N	Y	Not the heavy punches of her earlier medievals	Renald de Claire is a shadow of the character first introduced in the prequel to LORD OF MIDNIGHT, entitled DARK CHAMPION. <br />LORD OF MIDNIGHT tells the tale of Renald arriving at Summerbourne with the body of Clarence Summerbourne, traitor to the throne. He has been sent there by the King's order to marry one of the three maidens at Summerbourne and to deliver the body of the man he killed. Claire Summerbourne and her two aunts are the marital choices, however the two aunts flee to the convent leaving Claire to take on the responsibility. <br />The entire premise to the story is dismal and the fact this man has killed the family's patriarch is disturbing, not to mention that one of them must marry him. Claire Summerbourne, being the obvious choice to become the intended bride does not talk much with Renald, her intended, until midway through the story. Though we are lead to believe she is falling in love, there is very little chemistry between them. <br />Renald, who was a light and impulsive character when we first meet him in DARK CHAMPION, is a ghost of that man in this story. Not portrayed when we first meet him as a serious warrior, he is every bit that in this story. Understandably he has just killed a man and now must marry his daughter. This could potentially explain his change in attitude though the change is not fully embraced nor the story believable. Bastard FitzRoger, who he played 2nd to in that story, clearly out shadows him and it is hard to understand the change to the enchanting Renald in DARK CHAMPION. <br />Sparks begin to fly eventually and Jo Beverley is a consistently good storyteller making the read worthwhile but not with the heavy punches of her two earlier medievals.	2003-05-17
US	50078997	R3CJN6W6QG2E4B	0446612308	217462449	Like a Knife	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Gritty suspense and good debut	Redemption proves possible in this debut novel by Annie Soloman. Rachel Goodman hires Nick Raine, a former gunrunner who is trying to escape his past, as a handy man in the church where she teaches needed children. Rachel, who knows violence first hand having witnessed her mothers knifing death and later has her fathers disappearance, brings in children from violent backgrounds to her school. When she finds out about Nicks past, and is in fact kidnapped and delivered on his doorstep in a carpet, still gives him a chance to show he is not the same person he used to be. Nick discovers a child is missing and his former boss Spire insists he finds him or Rachel will be harmed. He sets out to do just that with Rachel at his side. This story moves at a fast pace, though the characters themselves are not developed to their full potential. Still, this is an enjoy suspense with lots of grit, shootings, and action to keep the reader interested!	2003-05-17
US	50078997	RCHM4JQ1C83QA	0380385880	75448761	Shanna	Books	4	12	13	N	Y	Rich and Captivating	SHANNA is a captivating tale by master romance storyteller Kathleen Woodiwiss. Finding herself in situation where she must marry before her father's return, Shanna goes to a prison to find herself a doomed man to marry to appease her promise made to her father. She selects Ruark Beauchamp; a man set to hang and in return promises him her body. They marry and she quickly reneges on her promise, leaving Ruark to return to his cell. <BR>However, Ruark finds himself purchased to work in the Caribbean where Shanna has also returned to live. Working on the very land her father owns, Ruark is thrust back into Shanna's life. Their passionate embraces haunt them both and Ruark is determined to collect on the promises made to him by Shanna. <br />This wonderful story is steamy and immensely rich in historic detail. If you are looking for the perfect balance of romance, sensuality and history you will find it here!	2003-05-17
US	50078997	RN3WZ2PZTYU08	0671880608	457314081	Until You (The Westmoreland Dynasty Saga)	Books	3	12	18	N	N	My expectations were too high..	If you've read WHITNEY MY LOVE, you will have already have met Stephen, the hero in UNTIL YOU. He is dynamic in WHITNEY MY LOVE and I was eager to read his story. Unfortunately, UNTIL YOU follows up a masterpiece, and cannot compare. Guest appearances by Whitney and Clayton are disappointing, ghosts of their original characters. <BR>Sheridan Bromleigh is escorting Charise Lancaster to meet her betrothed from America. When Charise elopes, Sheridan is left to meet her fianc and explain. However, upon arrival she is hit in the head, rendering her unable to remember who she is! Stephen Westmoreland, who has accidentally killed Charise's finance has arrived to meet his bride to be. He mistakes Sheridan for her and takes on the responsibility of her care while she recovers. <br />I wanted to like this book, but unfortunately I found it hard to get through. The in probability of the story left me scrambling to find something I did like. Sheridan, the heroine, is a pretty red head and I was curious about her character throughout the book, but it just wasn't enough. <br />Judith McNaught is an extremely talented writer. I believe the collapse of this story was mostly doing to it following up one of the classic romances of all time, WHITNEY MY LOVE.	2003-05-17
US	50078997	R1I41WIRE6LDEW	0380820897	431997179	One Night of Passion (Avon Romantic Treasure)	Books	4	10	11	N	N	Feisty characters	Georgiana Escott has one night to find a man to ruin her in order to avoid marriage to the old and despicable Lord Harris her Uncle Phinas has arranged a marriage with for her. Knowing she will be subjected to a test to confirm her virginity Georgiana doesn't have much time. She decides to attend the Cyprian's ball where England's most notable rogues are sure to attend. Here Georgie meets the dashing Lord Colin Danvers, who has just been dishonorly charged from his station. Though resistant at first Colin, eventually succumbs to Georgie's aggressive advances. The next morning Colin finds Georgiana gone... <BR>Finding out that her guardian and Lord Danvers is one and the same, makes the reunion of the stormy lovers filled with animosity and suspicion. Finding themselves on the same ship with Georginna's baby in tow, their reunion is stormy. Colin suspects Georgiana of being a French spy. Georgina resents Colin for being the mastermind behind her marriage betrothal to Lord Phineas. Their wonderful night of passion remains in their minds however and they find themselves drawn to each other. The book actually has two parts to it, the first being quite light and erotic as the seduction comes to play and the second being more serious once they meet again. The change in Georgina from seductress in the first part to angry and resentful woman in the second part is a hard switch to accept as a reader. I would have enjoyed one or the other, as I had quickly grown quite attached to Georgina in the first section. <br />Overall, this story is a wonderful read, and Elizabeth Boyle introduces feisty characters and an interesting plot.	2003-05-17
US	50078997	R2N1O98J975ZS4	0440236800	583359061	Comanche Woman (Sisters of the Lone Star)	Books	2	5	7	N	N	Something missing...	There was something missing in this tale of a white woman stolen by the Comanche. The premise itself was engaging but the characters were not. The first book I have read by Joan Johnston, I felt like I was missing some vital history and that the characters I were reading about were really not 2-Dimensional as they appeared to be, but there was more to this that was not included in this particular book. Bayleigh Steward, a tall and beautiful redheaded white woman was stolen three years ago by Comanche from her father's plantation. Her sister Cricket has asked that Long Quiet, a friend of her husband's, search for her. Long Quiet is a son of a Comanche woman and a white father and able to pass between the two worlds of Comanche and white people. Long Quiet once met Bayleigh and had decided that she was the woman for him, the one he wanted to have as his wife. He takes on the responsibility of finding her very seriously. When helping a Comanche, Many Horses, escape from a brutal death, he is embraced as a blood brother and taken back to the camp where he understands a redheaded white woman is being help captive. As a thank you for saving his life Many Horses offers Long Quiet the white woman Shadow he sees he desires to use as he wishes. Of course Long Quiet accepts. The reader is led to believe certain things at this stage regarding Shadow, that her captors abused her. However, this never happened in the ways you would think and it's too unbelievable to accept as a reader. The stage is set, the characters are in place, but something is missing. This story lacks the punch necessary to make this an engaging read.	2003-05-17
US	50078997	R2OS3J8HF8V2XR	0843950633	619387912	Lionheart	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Smooth Romance Candy! You Go Connie :)	Connie Mason transports us back to Northeast Wales, 1258. While engaged in a battle and storming Cragdom Lionheart (Lionel de Couer) first sees the &quot;White Knight&quot;. Enraged by the arrogance and sophistication of the White Knight's demeanor in battle, Lionheart dedicates himself to tracking down this knight and making him pay for besting him and his men on the battle field. <BR>As he takes over Cragdom he is greeted by the Vanora, lady of the Castle. She is a stunning beauty with a confident air that he is unused to when dealing with women. He finds himself captivated, in fact driven to complete blind lust in his pursuit to bed her. Finding himself suddenly married by a Priest who demands that he make his bond with Vanora official before bedding her, makes for all sorts of interesting adventures. <br />The introduction of his former mistress Althea is entertaining and fun. Watching Lionheart squirm as he juggles his wife and former lover makes for some awkward moments. <br />Throughout the story, Vanora continues her disguise as the White Knight as her loyalty to her castle men drives her to warn them of Lionheart's pursuit of them. When Lionheart finds out, he is furious. What comes next, you'll have to read the book to see! <br />Connie Mason's story of love touches a chord, though this book is not far from the beaten path Connie writes, it is still one I enjoy taking. Ms. Mason's writing style is always smooth, the story always entertaining, and the hero and heroine ones you seek when reading a romance. <br />I have yet to read a Connie Mason book I have not enjoyed. Perhaps that is the sign of a masterful writer...	2003-05-17
US	50078997	R1LHOHE7RGTBE1	0451206428	215247069	Lord of my Heart	Books	5	7	10	N	N	Lord of My Heart is pure brilliance!	This story, set in 1060s England is a seamless blend of romance, history, and passion. Normandy has invaded the English and the land is in turmoil. Aimery de Gaillard, half English and half Norman, help aid the English peasants under the thumb of Norman overlords and becomes known as \\"Golden Hart\\". He's distinguishable by markings on his hand, though he tries desperately to disguise himself at all times. He comes upon Madeleine de la Haute Vironge in the woods. She was caught looking upon him as he bathed and he seeks to teach her a lesson. Speaking English he tells her what he would do to her, though she doesn't understand a word. This first meeting lays the foundation of their very passionate, sensual relationship. <BR>When the King decides to give Madeline a choice of 3 men she may choose to marry and Aimery is one of them she finds once again she is drawn to him. Though this time not as Golden Hart, but as the King's favored choice. Aimery warns her not to choose him, because to do so would expose him as Golden Hart and a traitor of the crown. For circumstances I will not reveal in this review, she does choose him and they marry much to the delight of the reader. It doesn't end there so hold onto your seats! <br />This story is a masterpiece. Not only is it set in one of my favorite time periods, the dark and turbulent early 1060s, but it is does not hold back. Jo Beverly serves up a heavy weight punch and this book is a classic.	2003-05-17
US	50078997	R3QNWSUHFC7DG5	038081790X	118708766	Born in Sin: A MacAllisters Novel	Books	4	2	3	N	N	A Dark and Passionate Tale!	Sin is a tortured man with a tortured past. Held prisoner by the Saracens, he is used as an assassin on their behalf. He finds himself killing and carrying out their orders for a scrap of food, a night without a beating. Yes, it is that bad! When he is sent to assassin King Henry he sees an opportunity to escape his masters. Henry takes him up on his offer of allegiance and Sin finds himself free. <BR>Twelve years later Sin is ordered by the King to marry Caledonia MacNeely in an effort to infiltrate the Scots and weed out the infamous \\"Raider\\" causing havoc to the English. Sin, a MacAllister by birth, was shunned and discarded by his father and stepmother and rebels against this royal order. Henry, however, insists and Sin finds himself married to the beautiful Caledonia. <br />This story really demonstrates how love can turn even the most hardened hearted back towards love. Caledonia, a warm and sweet character, finds herself falling madly in love with Sin. Sin, not knowing what love is, finds his heart thawing. <br />BORN IN SIN is not without surprises. Indeed in one scene my jaw went slack. It's a fun and delightful surprise awaiting the reader. It might be unbelievable in some regards; it still was a delightful touch. Enjoy a wonderful escape by reading this touching story. <br />BORN IN SIN is Book 2 of the MacAllisters if you follow the traditional series rules, however there is a tie in to Kinley MacGregor's other series The Brotherhood of the Sword. In that case, it is book 3. TAMING THE SCOTMAN, Book 3 of The MacAllisters (Ewan's story) is soon to follow!	2003-05-17
US	50078997	R1601Y0WAW87GG	0671737619	535195561	A Kingdom of Dreams (The Westmoreland Dynasty Saga)	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Historical Romance with punch!	Now we're talking! This is a historical Romance full of fun, adventure, and sensuality done right. <BR>Judith McNaught out does herself in this wonderful story of Royce Westmoreland and Jennifer Merrick. <br />Known as \\"the wolf\\" Royce Westmoreland kidnaps Jennifer Merrick from her convent along with her sister. Jennifer Merrick is an extremely strong and wonderful heroine. Royce finds that she is not impressed with his persona, but with whom he is as a man. They share their dreams of \\"a kingdom of dreams\\" where anything can happen. This emotional bond between them is felt throughout the book and is described beautifully. <br />This is a prequel to WHITNEY MY LOVE, and the Westmoreland series. It does not disappoint. It's a unique story, with stand alone characters rich in depth and since the time line does not overlap WHITNEY MY LOVE, is able to stand on its own as a classic.	2003-05-17
US	50078997	R1I2N1AIH9HI4C	0446610534	989798183	The Destiny	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Sweeping grand tale!	Set against a backdrop of turbulent historical times and inter-mingled with an ancient prophecy that can't be denied, THE DESTINY shines! <BR>Jacobites, supporters of the exiled branch of the house of Stuart are seeking to restore James II to the English and Scottish thrones. When William III and Mary II ascended the throne after the flight of James II to France, strong Stuart partisans remained to offer rebellion. Neil MacCurrie, a highland Chieftain is in England, a very dangerous place to be during these times. <br />Eileen Ronley first meets Neil MacCurrie disguised as a Frenchman seeking shelter and a safe place to stay at her father's home. Unfortunately her father has mysteriously died several years earlier along with her mother, and the house is now owned by Milford, a man who is both suspicious and weary of this strange visitor to the Ronley home. Neil is on dangerous ground and his true heritage must not be discovered. Knowing this he answers untruthfully the questions set before him by Milford and he is taken prisoner. Eileen suspects he is not what he seems but regardless of this bravely helps him escape. Neil and Eileen feel a compelling and strong attraction and share a kiss farewell. They meet again in the royal courts of King William III and Mary II, a dangerous place for any Scot. There they fall in love and just might find their 50 years of peace. <br />THE DESTINY is a sweeping grand tale of political intrigue, personal ambition and romance that should not be missed!	2003-05-17
US	50078997	R3CROVAWIJEL3X	0380007789	856556145	The Wolf and the Dove	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Masterpiece!	The land and people of Darkenwald fall to the hands of knights who take everything in their path in the name of William, the Conqueror King. <br />First on the scene is the brutal Ragnor who victimizes the people and claims the Lady Aislinn for his own. Wulfgar \\"the Iron Wolf of Normandy\\" arrives and lays claim to Darkenwald and strips Ragnor of his \\"prize\\". <br />As the beautiful Aislinn adjusts to her life as a slave, she finds herself falling in love with her enslaver. He's sworn to love no woman, but also finds himself entranced by Aislinn who is both beautiful and strong. He fights this, even trying to bed other women to no avail. <br />Known as a bastard, Wulfgar's right to Darkenwald is challenged in the hearts and minds of Ragnor and his followers. When King William sets up a tournament of sorts, where the victor may lay claim to Darkenwald and Aislinn, the fight becomes bloody as the two men wage battle to win the ultimate prize. <br />As Wulfgar claims his prize, his sister Gwyneth and her father arrive, and ask for shelter. Aislinn's very clothes are stripped from her as Gwyneth falls jealous to Aislinn's role at the Castle. As another twist, Ragnor and Gwyneth develop a relationship that will lead to darkness and despair. <br />To further complicate matters, Aislinn finds she is to have a child. The question is, who is the father...? <br />THE WOLF AND THE DOVE is a journey to England, where you can hear the horses galloping as knights ride to battle, where a woman was lucky to not die when conquered, and when the love of a woman breaks into the cold realm of a man hardened by battle. The passion between Aislinn and Wulfgar is brilliantly written, and the 508 page story will not seem long enough!	2003-05-17
US	50078997	R1CHGX9XUQZW6X	0380813009	392176591	One Man's Love: Book One of The Highland Lords	Books	2	9	13	N	N	Gloomy, bleak and depressing	This is a bleak tale that had me wondering halfway through the book if I was actually reading a romance. The circumstances of the people is so depressing that it is hard to imagine a romance set during these awful times. <BR>Set in war ravaged Scotland in 1746, Ian MacRae returns to his mother's home where he had left upon her brutal rape and murder. Under the belief a warring clan had killed his mother, he had enlisted in the British army to wreck havoc upon the Scottish he hates. <br />Known as 'Butcher of Inverness' Ian arrives to find his mother's former home ravaged by war. The people are starving and defeated. Out of the few survivors he finds Leitus MacRae, a young lady he shared a stolen kiss with many years before. Not recognizing him, Leitus finds herself his captive in exchange for one of the older clansman who foolishly likes to stand on hills playing his pipes. <br />Karen Ranney depicts very accurately, not to mention vividly how the English decimates Scotland during this tragic period in history. However, the chemistry between the hero and heroine is lacking, perhaps due to the very violent realistic backdrop and total hopelessness of the situation. <br />As Ian begins to find his Scottish roots again, and becomes \\"The Raven\\" in order to help his mother's people. Leitus finds herself falling in love with him, and therefore her captor in disguise. <br />This story is too gloomy and sober for this reviewer's taste though Ms. Ranney is not to be faulted for her writing, which is fluid and well paced.	2003-05-17
US	50078997	R2UZ19474G7RBV	0061087130	349244617	Master of Desire (MacAllister Series)	Books	5	5	5	N	Y	Kinley MacGregor is a dominating force!	King Henry II decides to put an end to the quarrelling between the two houses consisting of his knights of the realm. By the King's order, Draven must keep his enemy's youngest daughter, Emily, for a year at his home of Ravenswood. The King forbids Draven to harm her in anyway or take her maidenhood. If he should he will be severely dealt with. <BR>Emily sets her eye on Draven for marriage. Her father keeps her closing cloistered at the family home and her chance for marriage is slipping away as she grows older. However, Draven has chosen never to take a wife, for fear his great rage will continue the cycle of violence known in his family. <br />Draven, who never laughs, finds Emily full of laughter and life. Emily states that when she makes Draven laugh he will be hers. Read the book to find out if she succeeds! <br />Kinley MacGregor continues to develop as a dominating force in the historical romance genre. Her writing is engaging and her characters are ones you can fall in love with.	2003-05-17
US	50078997	R348Q9FYZM2T1Y	0515133655	489968932	Tempting	Books	4	13	14	N	N	Solid Good Read	TEMPTING starts off strong with a tragic and violent prologue that sets that stage and make-up of the main character, Simon Belleville. As a young boy he witnesses a violent act upon his sister, and feeling helpless and the cause for the tragedy, closes him off to others. His pursuits turn to making himself a self-made man in English society. <BR>As the newly appointed head of Queen Victoria's Morality & Vice Commission, Simon Belleville finds himself breaking up a brothel where he discovers Christine in an attic. Not sure why, he takes the lovely young \\"prostitute\\" to his home instead of to Newgate Gaol. As an aspiring Member of Parliament, the very last thing Simon needs is a scandal so he introduces her as his cousin. However, he has anything but cousinly feelings towards the intriguing young girl. <br />Christine is also no stranger to hardship and tragedy. Bullied by her cousin who she believes she has killed, she finds herself alone, hungry, and in a brothel. Simon changes all that, as her \\"dark angel\\" and places in his old mistress's school to develop a refined woman. <br />Hope Tarr weaves a tale of two people searching for themselves and for each other. The mixture of violence, which is not graphically portrayed, and the nature of the gentle tale are an unusual mix. It could almost be characterized as an innocent and sweet romance without these dark undercurrents running throughout the book. I would have liked to see Ms. Tarr develop these dark themes more, and not hesitate to show the reader the brutalism endured by the main characters. I believe it would have helped strengthen the storyline of the book. <br />TEMPTING is an original and enjoyable read from the talented Ms. Tarr. There is an earthy realism to her writing style; her characters are portrayed as real people with flaws, both physical and mental. Don't miss this special read!	2003-05-17
US	50078997	R9MO5VPPU2CYW	0804119791	5039678	Ecstasy (Notorious)	Books	2	3	5	N	N	Good opening and downhill from there	While initially drawn into this story by the sordid kidnapping of Raven Kendrick on the day of her wedding by Kell Lasseter's brother, I found myself slowly drawn back out. <BR>Raven Kendrick, a beautiful woman seeking to title herself through marriage in order to appease her mother's dying wish, finds herself at the infamous Kell Lasseter's gaming hall, tied to a bed and drugged with an aphrodisiac by his hateful brother Sean. Kell comes to her rescue and sends his violent brother away and finds he must \\"attend\\" to her needs as the aphrodisiac rages within her. <br />Soon after, Raven and Kell find themselves engaged in an attempt to save her reputation. Kell feels obligated to do this because of his brother's vile actions and the reader is led to believe this is as it should be. <br />I was game to accept these flimsy reasons and the storyline continues to fall flat from there. Towards the end my head was spinning with other secondary characters from previous books before this one and their obvious introduction was meant to tie all the books in. As a new reader of Nicole Jordan's novels, I found this befuddling and a tad on the ridiculous. <br />With that said, I still found this book entertaining and a fun read, without much depth. One should be prepared to be led along with story and if you accept the storyline and go where the author is taking you, as you are meant to, you will enjoy this.	2003-05-17
US	50078997	R5NV8E206X0G3	0060002700	716096268	The Rose and the Shield	Books	4	2	3	N	Y	Sparks Fly!	...high praise to THE ROSE AND THE SHIELD! <BR>Lady Rose is a fiercely independent woman who has striven to retain control of her lands in a male-dominated arena. Reluctant to approach her liege lord, Lord Radulf (from THE LILY AND THE SWORD) for help she instead hires Gunnar Olafson (son of Olaf and Gundren from THE LILY AND THE SWORD) and his band of mercenaries to protect Somerford Manor against raiders believe to be merefolk by her peopel. Unbeknownst to her, he is hired to spy on Lady Rose and expose her for treason. His reward will be Somerford Manor for himself. <br />Upon first meeting Gunnar and Rose are attracted to each other. Gunnar is a hero to swoon over. Large in size and handsome in face he is frequently surrounded by ogling women. Described most vividly by Ms. Bennett, he is a Viking with blue eyes like the ocean, and long reddish hair. Rose finds herself under his sensual spell. He is not immune to her charms either. Gunnar initially doubts Roses innocence, and sees her as a conniving woman in cahoots with her knight. He soon realizes this is not the case, and Rose has ably handled the administration of her lands and people. <br />The physical chemistry between these two characters sparks from the beginning. As the story progresses the love for each other matches their passion. <br />Ms. Bennett does a wonderful job providing a passionate romance in 1072 England and stays consistent in this second book and follow up of THE LILY AND THE SWORD. <br />Watch for more wonderful stories from Ms. Bennett in 2003. Ivo de Vesseys story will be called ONCE HE LOVES and released in April 03.	2003-05-17
US	50078997	R1O0YJWSZI0Q4F	0373292341	854614345	The Dumont bride	Books	5	24	27	N	N	A masterpiece story!	A masterpiece story that exemplifies historical romance at its finest, THE DUMONT BRIDE receives a perfect 10 from Historical Romance Writers. <br />Depleted physically and mentally Christian's days are numbered as he and his brother waste away in prison. Paying the price for their father's traitorous deeds, who has already met his fate with the hangman, Christian receives an offer from King Richard he simply cannot refuse. Sent to Queen Eleanor to do as she bids, he blindly accepts this offer to have his lands, titles, and wealth restored to his family IF he agrees to what the Queen requests of him. Not knowing what this request is, and realizing this will be his only chance to save his brother, Geoffrey, who is dying and to save himself, he agrees. <br />He arrives at Greystone Castle, an impressive land holding to meet with Queen Eleanor. There he discovers he is to be wed to Emalie Montgomerie. <br />Protected by the Queen Eleanor who has devised a plan to remove her from the grasp of the vile Prince John, Emalie finds herself a pawn in this power play for her land and her wealth. A victim of a rape she can not remember, she is now at the mercy of the royals and her fate is yet unsealed. <br />Still dealing with his physical depletion from imprisonment he finds himself dealing with fever and weakness, something he is not accustomed to. He wants to hide his predicament until he finds out what role he plays in the political maneuvers of Queen Eleanor, King Richard and Prince John. <br />Both Emalie and Christian are powerless to fight the love that develops between them despite the mistrust, confusion, and politics surrounding their marriage.<br />This story was riveting from start to finish. It defied conventional storylines and continued to surprise each step away. Traditional resolutions that were expected did not come. Ms. Brisbin weaves a tale of love, passion, acceptance, and political intrigue that is sure to become a classic. <br />Bravo, Ms. Brisbin!	2002-12-01
US	50078997	R28ESNKUGDV942	0671776096	869998580	Whitney, My Love (The Westmoreland Dynasty Saga)	Books	5	82	106	N	N	Judith McNaught utterly shines!	Judith McNaught utterly shines in this spectacular debut novel that launched her career. WHITNEY, MY LOVE was a delight from start to finish. Never having read the original version of this book, I read the glorious 708 page extended version without ever taking a break. Emerging my self from a blurry-eyed dream that is this novel, I'm pleased to say this classic lives up to it's reputation. <br />Whitney Stone, a young and impetuous girl believes herself in love with Paul, the recipient of all her youthful feelings and dreams. Her disapproving father deems her behavior inappropriate and she finds herself sent to France with her beloved Aunt and Uncle. These she is allowed to bloom into the beautiful, unique women she is. She finds herself groomed into a lady and becomes the toast of Paris. As she perfects her arts as a lady she deems it time to return home to win the heart of Paul, her childhood sweetheart. Unbeknownst to her, her father has betrothed her to Clayton Westmoreland, the Duke of Claymore. Her father's uncontrollable debts have wiped out her inheritance and her dowry and the Duke is the answer to his financial difficult. <br />Whitney, however, wants nothing to do with the Clayton and pursues Paul and finally wins his heart. From there, you'll have to read the story yourself! <br />There is a disturbing scene in this book that is often times discussed. I'll leave the reader to draw his or her own conclusions and opinions on it. I, however, found this to be a powerful story and enjoyed it immensely. I'm certain I will not forget the names Whitney or Clayton Westmoreland and they will continue to burn in my mind as one of the more stormy and passionate couples I have ever read about it. <br />One might draw parallels to GONE WITH THE WIND and this novel, However where Scarlet O'Hara does not realize her love for Rhett Butler until it is much too late, Whitney is not so foolish. <br />Enjoy reading this classic romance! ...	2002-12-01
US	50078997	R235OF4N13RZLW	0446610526	128664589	The Legend	Books	5	20	21	N	N	Experience a Scottish Romance the way it should be told!	Setting: Scotland <BR>Year: 1689<br />THE LEGEND begins with the death of the great clan leader and father of Neil and James, two twins that are cast into a role fate has predestined for them. The seer prophesies that two brothers would lead the clan to war, and then to 50 years of peace. Both brothers would marry a woman from the East and the women would share a name. <br />Ms. Givens weaves a stunning tale of politics and warfare in 17th Century Scotland. As the highland clans prepare for battle against King George of Orange in their support of King James Stuart, James encounters Ellen Graham. Ellen Graham is on her way to warn her cousin, John Graham, of a sinister plot of assassination. <br />James, a handsome black-haired warrior with blue eyes, is smitten by Ellen and the feeling is mutual. His care for her is immediate and continual throughout the story. Indeed their conflict does not lie with their relationship and feelings for each other but the storm of history they are swept up in. <br />This is a masterful tale rich in action, adventure, and passion cast against very real historical events. It will set your heart pounding with excitement as you experience highland clansman, fierce in battle, or the passionate love between James and Ellen. Reading this book will make you desperate for more, and you are in luck...there is a sequel.	2002-07-09
US	50078997	R2MGUVCV35ZAW3	0061087122	683956970	Master of Seduction (Sea Wolves Series)	Books	4	7	10	N	Y	MacKinley Magic!	Lorelei Dupree and her fianc&eacute;, Justin Wallingford, set out to catch Black Jack Rhys, the infamous pirate. Lorelei, confident in her feminine whiles, believes she knows how to handle any man by treating him like a dog. However she will find out Black Jack Rhys is not like other men.<br />Posing as a bar maid, Lorelei finds herself face to face with Jack Rhys, who she met before the night before, but that night he was no pirate! Indeed he is in the famous pirate, and he quickly takes her from the bar as a hostage and sets the course for adventure and romance on the high seas.<br />Their relationship becomes one of passion, a struggle of wills, and ultimately a deep love.<br />The book is entitled MASTER OF DESIRE, which seems a bit misleading. Black Jack is a deeply scarred man, and in no way exemplifies a master of women or of experience. He in fact is quite solitary and dark.<br />There are several gaps in Ms. Macgregor's writing where secondary characters are still in the room, if one reads the book carefully, while the couple embraces. I found this distracting that these mistakes were made. In Kinley Macgregor's defense, her characterization of Black Jack Rhys is second to none and the book was a first rate and enjoyable read.	2002-06-30
US	50078997	R25YVIAWCDBZU7	0671739743	598069709	The Velvet Promise	Books	5	17	21	N	N	Historical Romance at its finest!	Jude Deveraux is a master in this genre. Gavin and Judith are characters you will remember for many years to come after you set done the book. I read a lot of romances, and if I remember their names some time later, I know the author has struck a cord with myself. Gavin is a handsome and strong man, the eldest of several brothers (read the rest of the series to find out what happens to them!) and he meets the beautiful Judith. Alice was a wonderful twist to the story, and I'm sure I wasn't alone in my frustration of Gavin's blindness to her faults. Jude Deveraux is becoming one of my favorite authors in the romance genre, I have only recently discovered her and have yet to find a book I don't like! Enjoy.	2000-10-29
