US	50093686	R1TWHHUS3GLSF3	0060085452	27148357	Boy Meets Girl (The Boy Series)	Books	5	29	31	N	N	Laugh-Out-Loud Fun	BOY MEETS GIRL is the follow-up to the wildly popular THE BOY NEXT DOOR. In BOY MEETS GIRL, Meg Cabot introduces us to Kate Mackenzie and Mitchell Hertzog via emails, voicemails, diary entries, and various other pieces of modern communication. Newly single and crashing on her best friend's sofa while she apartment-hunts, Kate is an employee in the Human Resources department of the New York Journal, bossed around and undermined by the Tyrannical Office Despot at every corner. When the T.O.D. orders her to fire Ida Lopez, a very popular cafeteria employee, Ida turns around and sues for breach of contract. The attorney on the case is Mitchell Hertzog, and something about Kate clicks with him, despite the fact that every time they meet, his dry cleaner makes money from the disasters that occur - oh, and the fact that his crusading on the Lopez case, intended to impress Kate and show her that he's not a soulless corporate drone, actually gets Kate fired.<br />Complicating matters for Mitch is the fact that his brother Stuart is engaged to the T.O.D., his younger sister is in a crisis, his older sister wants him to get married, his mother nags him at every turn, and his father, the firm's senior partner, is incommunicado on a never-ending golfing holiday. As for Kate, besides being homeless and jobless, she's covering up for the office vamp's affair with a German ski instructor and being pestered by her ex, first to move back in, then to provide a \\"recommendation\\" for him as a boyfriend to a ditzy supermodel whose idea of foreign food is the Olive Garden.<br />It never ceases to amaze me how well a story can be told in this format. I loved THE BOY NEXT DOOR for its novelty, and BOY MEETS GIRL delivers more of the same. Because many of the same characters appear in both books, I felt like I was revisiting old friends as well as making new ones. Dolly Vargas is as wild as ever, Tim Grabowski is still a huge gossip, George Sanchez is still complaining about the lack of Mountain Dew in the vending machines, and Stacy Trent continues to try to find a life for herself and her husband once the kids are glued to Spongebob Squarepants. Mitch, Kate, and Kate's best friend Jen fit into the setting perfectly. They're great characters, people I'd love to know in real life. <br />If I have one quibble about BOY MEETS GIRL, it's the fact that the off-screen action can undermine the credibility of the love story. We only know what we are told through email. In THE BOY NEXT DOOR, Mel and John exchanged a lot of email, but in BOY MEETS GIRL, Kate and Mitch rarely communicate this way - everything we know is from Kate's emails to Jen. Readers can feel the chemistry between Kate and Mitch in the deposition transcripts, but there's not a lot of follow-through, so their relationship felt a little rushed to me. On the other hand, Cabot completely nailed the girlfriend vibe - Kate's emails and IM's with Jen read like some of my chats with friends. <br />The characters were so engaging that my minor complaint was barely a blip on the radar; I enjoyed the book as a whole - and I recommend it to others. Read it - it will raise your spirits, I promise you.	2004-01-21
US	50093686	R2XNL92ESGELIS	0449004864	93203846	Desire (Notorious)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Sensual and satisfying	DESIRE continues Nicole Jordan's highly entertaining, emotional, and provocative Notorious series, which began in THE SEDUCTION and continued in THE PASSION. DESIRE is the Earl of Wycliff Lucian Tremayne's turn at center stage -- and he does it so well. <br />Lucian finds himself in Cornwall, searching for clues to the identity of the mysterious Lord Caliban, who has been betraying England to France in a myriad of spy schemes. Caliban's latest trick has been to steal gold from England and use it to fund Napoleon's armies. Given the disappearance of the latest gold shipment, Lucian is sure that Caliban's henchmen are at work in the area and he is determined to bring them to justice. But his all-business trip takes a surprising turn when he meets Brynn Caldwell. Her beauty is breathtaking and he is immediately and powerfully drawn to her. He knows his feelings are real, despite her protests that they are the result of a gypsy curse laid upon the women of her family, to be fatally attractive to men. Once he realizes that Brynn is a respectable young lady and not the housemaid he originally suspected her of being, he pushes for marriage over her loud protests, ultimately manipulating the situation to attain his desires. Brynn can't refuse Lucian when he offers to pay her family's debts, but that doesn't mean she has to be happy about it either. <br />Lucian is called away on their wedding night to deal with the Caliban affair, and this event sets the tone for the conflict within Lucian in the rest of the novel: the idea of duty to country vs. the idea of commitment to love and family. This inner turmoil ends up playing a large role in the tale, as Lucian uncovers damning evidence that could destroy his marriage. Coupled with the fact that Lucian is fighting Brynn's (rightful) belief in the curse, the plot becomes highly twisted and emotional. <br />When I first read the back cover and saw the bit about the gypsy curse, I was leery. But I needn't have worried. The curseis not some paranormal plot device bandied about to give Brynn a flaw. Jordan handles the idea in such a manner that a believer or a skeptic can appreciate it. Lucian, while he longs for Brynn to give up the idea of the curse, does not push her to do so, but waits for her to deal with it in her own way -- a fact I found extremely refreshing and unexpected in light of Lucian's alpha personality. <br />What I love about Jordan's works is her devotion to character development and the pure feelings of the protagonists for each other. DESIRE is no exception; Jordan lets readers see the mental and emotional workings of both Lucian and Brynn, letting us feel as torn as they themselves do. Accompanying these revelations is the palpable chemistry between the hero and heroine, which is satisfyingly and beautifully fulfilled in love scenes that are lush with sensuality, but never ripen to excessive purple prose. <br />Characters first seen in the previous Notorious books make brief appearances here. We get to see Damien Sinclair and his wife Vanessa, and we hear about Nick Sabine and his wife Aurora. Raven Kendrick, who first appeared in THE PASSION, is further developed here, and Dare Clune, the devil-may-care Hellfire League leader, shows a surprisingly sensitive and vulnerable side of himself. Raven now has her own story in ECSTACY, and Dare, I was delighted to discover, gets his time in the spotlight in the current release THE PRINCE OF PLEASURE.<BR> <BR>Fans of this series will be more than satisfied with this entry. Jordan satisfies with her characteristic deft hand at plotting and luscious prose.	2004-01-20
US	50093686	R3GL0N4GKFBI0O	0553585894	686260074	The Seducer	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A Refreshing Addition to the Regency Setting	I was heartbroken when I heard that Madeline Hunter was abandoning the medieval time period for the done-to-death Regency setting, but I needn't have worried. Hunter's THE SEDUCER is no cookie-cutter, wallpaper historical, but rather a rich portrayal of life in postwar England.<br />Orphan Diane Albret is both terrified and fascinated by her self-styled guardian, Daniel St. John. When St. John comes to her school in France to see to a disciplinary matter and discovers her true age, Diane throws herself on his mercy and asks that he help her find a suitable position in England. The more time Diane spends with Daniel, the more her previous terror is eclipsed by her fascination.<br />For his part, Daniel grooms Diane to be the perfect tool for some long-awaited vengeance. But somewhere along the way, he realizes that he can't sacrifice Diane in such a heartless fashion - not when his own heart is involved.<br />Hunter breathes new life into the guardian-ward plot, and the suspense of whether love or vengeance will win the day was drawn out with great finesse. One of the things I love about Hunter is that her heroes can be ordinary men - merchants and younger sons of the nobility - and her heroines can actually use the brains they are purported to have. In a genre peppered with the biggest rakes holding the biggest titles and bluestockings who run around like brain-dead twits, such characters are refreshing indeed.<br />THE SEDUCER is the first of a quartet of books, and I cannot wait to dive into the remaining three books. Though I still hold out hope that someday Hunter will return to the medievals she so excels at, her Regencies are a credit to the genre.	2004-01-20
US	50093686	RITSKEQMVO621	0060508116	734187538	Fool for Love (Duchess in Love)	Books	2	13	15	N	N	A disappointing second installment	When I finished the sparkling and delightful DUCHESS IN LOVE, I couldn't wait for the next installment in Eloisa James's new series. Now, having read FOOL FOR LOVE, I can only express my disappointment. <br />In FOOL FOR LOVE, the main characters are Henrietta and Simon - not one of the couples introduced in DUCHESS IN LOVE. Simon Darby is Esme Rawlings's nephew, heir apparent to her late husband's title and estates. However, Esme is pregnant, and so Simon needs to wait out her confinement to see if the baby is a boy or not. There are also doubts as to whether Esme's child was fathered by her late husband. When Simon comes to Esme's country estate with his much younger half-sisters in tow, he meets - and is fascinated with - Esme's neighbor, Henrietta Maclellan. He woos her, after a fashion, until he discovers that she can not only not carry children to term, but that she also probably should not even participate in activities that could lead to pregnancy. Henrietta wants Simon and his two sisters, so she does not give up, and with Esme's help, contrives to trap him into marriage.<br />Around this point, the book just started to wander along paths that made no sense. Simon, who in the first half of the book appears to truly need his uncle's estates (given the way he rushed off to the country to determine if Esme was indeed pregnant), suddenly reveals that he has a fortune worth twice Henrietta's dowry. Henrietta stubbornly refuses to consult a better doctor in London about her deformity and her childbearing ability. A great deal of stress is placed on how she longs to be a mother to Simon's two sisters, but little is shown of how she manages to handle the two extremely difficult girls. For that matter, much is made of younger sibling Annabel's \\"weak stomach,\\" and I kept expecting Henrietta to find the solution to this illness, but nothing happened. Similarly, there was no explanation offered as to why older sibling Josie mourned so much for a shrew of a mother she apparently never really knew. To top it all off, I had a hard time believing Simon and Henrietta were ever really in love; their declarations to one another felt rather rushed, and even the cause and resolution of Henrietta's medical problems were glossed over.<br />I think what frustrated me most about FOOL FOR LOVE is that the scenes between Esme Rawlings and Sebastian Bonnington stole the show. This book should have been their time at center stage, and the fact that they were only granted minor scenes (even if those scenes were the strongest in the book) makes me feel downright cheated. In fact, I sensed that James was setting readers up for Rees and Helena's story next, which means Esme and Sebastian will be continuing background characters, awaiting their own book for some time. But at least Rees and Helena are a compelling couple. Simon and Henrietta left me cold, frustrated, and wanting to knock heads together. I settled for throwing the book across the room. I recommend FOOL FOR LOVE only for Esme and Sebastian's sake.	2003-08-13
US	50093686	R2DDD0NNGPQV5C	0312983484	298863673	Lead Me On	Books	3	6	6	N	N	Uplifting and Sweet	LEAD ME ON continues the St. Claire siblings trilogy begun in FALLING FOR YOU. This installment puts the spotlight on Allison St. Claire, the shy middle sibling, and Scott Lawrence, best-selling novelist with a major case of writer's block.<br />Scott has come to Pearl Island for two things: inspiration for his book and sex. He's instantly attracted to Alli, but in his mind, she's a \\"good girl,\\" the type that deserves marriage. Alli, on the other hand, is sick and tired of being a good girl - she thinks it's time to be a little bad, and she wants to be bad with Scott. The two have a scorching one-night stand, and spend the rest of the book battling personal demons to gain their happy ending. <br />Alli has a tremendous fear of rejection, thanks to a humiliating relationship with a rich boy in high school that ended in a miscarriage, heartbreak, and humiliation. Scott has a huge fear of commitment, thanks to being raised in a very hostile family atmosphere, and therefore learning that the only person he can count on is himself. Both Alli and Scott need to learn to bend, that a relationship is about blending. <br />Complicating the matter is a question about the ownership of Pearl Island, and the superstition of the luck it brings. The St. Claires purchased the island in FALLING FOR YOU, and now the original owner, John Le Roche, suffering financially, wants it back, claiming he was cheated out of his property. Scott's connection to LaRoche is not totally surprising, but it serves to complicate his relationship with Alli to the extreme. <br />While some of the angst got a little annoying, and Scott's mea culpa via television interview was a wee bit over the top, Ortolon's focus on the importance of family was greatly emphasized in the contrast between the St. Claires and the LaRoches. It is a prevalent thread in both LEAD ME ON and FALLING FOR YOU, and I look forward to following this delightful family story through to its conclusion in Adrian St. Claire's story, DON'T TEMPT ME, next year. If you're looking for a light and home-y read, look no further than LEAD ME ON (though I suggest reading FALLING FOR YOU first).	2003-06-04
US	50093686	R2QF5YJ90ZPYWD	038081918X	65675664	Getting Lucky (Marine, Book 2)	Books	4	10	12	N	N	Smart, Sexy, and Just Plain Fun	In GETTING LUCKY, Susan Andersen creates a world where the men talk like men and the women aren't afraid to stand up for themselves, a welcome change from romances with uber-alpha males being matched with doormat watering pot females. <br />Marine Master Sergeant Zach Taylor arrives home from leave to find, not his sheltered heiress baby sister, but a Marilyn Monroe-like knockout named Lily Morrisette not only living in his house but actually living in his room. Given that his sister Glynnis is forever taking in gold-digging strays, he assumes the worst, especially when Lily won't tell him where his sister has disappeared to, or with whom.<br />Lily is a chef on an exclusive corporate yacht, working on saving up to open her own restaurant. She's smart and sassy, and is well aware that her party-girl looks often make men jump to conclusions. She stubbornly refuses to straighten out Zach's misconceptions, but then she finds a note among her things from Glynnis, instructing her to tell Zach that Glynnis and her fiancé, David, have driven from California to Washington's Orcas Island to meet his family. Lily just knows Zach is going to fly off the handle about this news, so she insists on going with him, much to his consternation.<br />When they finally arrive on Orcas, it is to discover David's family in an uproar over a ransom note - the happy couple has apparently been kidnapped. On the road trip there, Zach had begun to admire Lily as more than a hot babe, and once they arrive on Orcas, Lily really gets a chance to shine as an emotional bedrock for the distraught family members. Lily also is able to see Zach in a whole new light - beyond overbearing pig to concerned brother and lonely man, despite being very good at his job. I sometimes have a hard time with couples who get a happily-ever-after within mere days of meeting, but Zach and Lily are utterly believable as a couple. How these two relate to each other shows that Andersen really has a terrific grasp of the male-female relationship dynamic.<br />There is a sweet side story involving Lily helping David's cousin Jessica transform from ugly duckling into a beautiful swan, and a slightly forced element involving a Columbian national with a grudge against Zach. This latter development struck me as more of a device thrown in to make Zach come to his senses about Lily than an essential part of the story, and it was a bit rushed, but like the rest of the book it was well-written. I can forgive weaknesses in plotting if the characters stay consistent and if the writing is high caliber, both of which are true in the case of GETTING LUCKY.<br />I have a test for rating a book: am I sad to leave the characters at the end of the book? Zach and Lily passed with flying colors. GETTING LUCKY is a welcome addition to my Susan Andersen collection. I'm hoping my suspicion that secondary character John \\"Rocket\\" Miglioni is going to get his own story will prove true - and if that's the case, I'll be in the bookstore waiting to buy one of the first copies!	2003-06-04
US	50093686	R15G1V0BH6H59V	0380818965	864862928	Then Comes Marriage	Books	2	7	8	N	N	Somewhat Endearing, but Overall a Clumsy Effort	THEN COMES MARRIAGE is a sequel of sorts to Ridgway's FIRST COMES LOVE.<br />Honor Witherspoon, jet-setting heiress extraordinaire and recent kidnapping survivor, wants to settle into \\"normal\\" small town life in Hot Water, California. So apparently Daddy Witherspoon pretty much *buys* the town for her. Whether it's the whole town, or just the historic district (which was troubled financially in the first book) and hero Bram Bennett's company Enigma, is never made clear.<br />Daddy also buys Honor a husband, because, even though she's survived under his benign neglect for years, she's his baby girl and he doesn't want to leave the country with her unprotected - his theory being that even a purchased husband will protect his bride. How he does this is never made clear, one of the biggest beefs I have with this book - just vague threats of financially ruining the town or something. The husband of choice is Bram Bennett, rich technogeek extraordinaire, who simply wants to be left alone - he shut himself off from everyone after the tragic death of this first wife. <br />But there's your setup: Bram's saddled with a bride he doesn't want and knows she won't stick around b/c she's a spoiled little rich girl who will want to go back to Beverly Hills soon anyway. Honor, who apparently doesn't have the backbone to stand up to Daddy's wishes despite being a grown woman determined to get her way in every other arena, also views the marriage as temporary. The whole town, on the other hand, thinks they are in love and gushes about the newlyweds and how Honor will change solitary Bram's life for the better. Even Dylan, the tough-as-nails hero from FIRST COMES LOVE, waxes sappy about the \\"true love\\" Bram and Honor share to a nauseating degree.<BR> <BR>How these two fall in love is actually kind of believable - kind of. Both Honor and Bram are pretty psychologically scarred, so they're kindred spirits in a sense, and grow closer by supporting each other. It was believable enough tokeep me from hurling the book against the wall. Well, that and one really hot love scene involving surveillance equipment. There's also some cute paranormal type elements - apparently *something* about Honor just doesn't jibe well with electronic equipment, and as a consequence, Bram's \\"Fortress\\" (which is reminiscent of the automated house in Jayne Ann Krentz's ABSOLUTELY, POSITIVELY) suffers from her presence, especially Bram's robotic dog, Fifo.<br />Secondary to the plot is the arrival of Daddy's assistant, suave Josh McCool, and his relationship with the full-figured and sweetly shy Mia Caruso, Bram's housekeeper. These two were actually nice to read about, and I wish they had more air time, so to speak.<br />There was a dopey subplot involving Mia's dad claiming he'd been abducted by aliens, but given the slight paranormal elements introduced by Honor earlier, it wasn't that far-fetched. There's other stuff, like the fact that this town actually has a knitting club that is the social hub for all the women and an equally bizarre fellowship for the men, as well as the fact that Honor's kidnapper comes back to haunt her (not literally), but these aren't really worth mentioning.<br />Overall, this book did not impress me. I wasn't annoyed enough to not finish it, but I didn't want the characters to stick around once it was done - in fact, the only thing that is sticking around is the lack of reason for Bram and Honor to let themselves be manipulated into the situation in the first place. If it was set up in FIRST COMES LOVE, I sure don't remember it, and dollars to donuts I'm not the only reader. The marriage of convenience is an oft-used device in the romance genre, and in the hands of an expert, it can be a thoroughly enjoyable story, but given Ridgway's failure to set up a more clear, believable premise, it's clunky and falls flat.<br />This marks the second Ridgway I didn't particularly care for, which means she comes off my auto-buy list. For a better Ridgwayexperience I recommend WISH YOU WERE HERE. For similar but more enjoyable romantic comedies, check out Rachel Gibson's SEE JANE SCORE or Susan Andersen's GETTING LUCKY.	2003-06-03
US	50093686	R13CFURV4R5LAU	0345453387	975082316	Dog Handling	Books	3	6	6	N	N	Entertaining and cute, with reservations	Clare Naylor's DOG HANDLING is a cutesy chick lit about a woman who, when dumped by her fiancé, takes the advice of well-meaning friends and starts to treat an old crush like she would a dog to make him notice her. Problem is, he's already noticed her without the dog tricks, and now she doesn't know if he fell for her for herself, or due to the dog tricks. <br />As I said, it's cutesy. It's also nicely witty and full of self-deprecating humor, but it has all the trademarks of chick lit that I've come to realize annoy me: a heroine with weight/confidence issue, a &quot;plain Jane,&quot; surrounded by gorgeous and sophisticated friends -- all the people always seem to be part of a jet-setting, cocktail-quaffing, extremely shallow crowd.<BR> <BR>Despite the fact that it's a book about finding one's self, it comes off as kind of shallow overall. However, I consider it worthwhile just for the humor, pop culture references, the fun drag queens Dave and James and their explanation of what &quot;dog handling&quot; is.<br />I'd recommend it, yes, but at the same time, it reminds me why I don't read chick lit all the time.	2003-06-03
US	50093686	R22GBLK24B40VL	074343787X	654401223	The Devil You Know (Rutledge Family, Book 3)	Books	5	52	54	N	N	Regrets, Redemption, and Second Chances	Ever since his first appearance in Liz Carlyle's BEAUTY LIKE THE NIGHT, I have been intrigued by Bentley Rutledge. A scamp with a penchant for malicious mischief, who showed up in later books as an unrepentant rogue, Randolph Bentham \\"Hell-Bent\\" Rutledge has been screaming for a comeuppance, and I am delighted to report that Ms. Carlyle gives him a rather stunning one in THE DEVIL YOU KNOW.<br />Bentley is visiting long-time friends at Chatham Lodge, and after one night's drunken revels, he encounters disconsolate and furious Frederica d'Avillez in the gardens. Freddie, whom he has long viewed as a younger sister but recently noticed as a woman, is smarting over being rejected by her almost-fiancé due to her \\"inferior\\" bloodlines. After crying on Bentley's shoulder, she seduces him - part pride, part secret longing. Bentley has never been one to say no to any sort of vice and obliges her. He wakes with some regret in the morning, and leaves a \\"pretty\\" proposal in her room before escaping. But he doesn't know that his proposal flies out the window with him and Freddie never received it.<br />Soon it is announced that Freddie is going abroad to marry. Bentley's been waiting weeks for the axe to fall, and can hardly believe that Freddie won't have him - or that Freddie's male relatives don't want him dead. Once he discovers she is pregnant and the marriage abroad is a ruse, he proposes that they marry for six months, and that he will always provide for Freddie and the child financially. Bentley and Freddie journey to his family's estate, where Bentley is forced to confront his past while trying to set up a viable future for his little family.<br />It was wonderful to get inside Bentley's head. I always suspected there was more to him than he let on, that he was more than just a debauched rake. And there is. Bentley's past is surprisingly heart-wrenching; his feelings of hopelessness and despair are quite tangible to the reader.<br />I haven't talked much about Freddie. She is a very sympathetic character, especially since she is trying to do what readers want to do: figure out what makes Bentley tick. Bentley is most definitely the star of this show, but I for one did not mind him upstaging everyone else (except, perhaps, Kemble!). <br />I was a bit dismayed when I realized this was to be a marriage-forced-for-pregnancy plot, as this is one of my least favorite devices. But in Ms. Carlyle I trust, and she did not lead me astray. THE DEVIL YOU KNOW is a testament to what can happen to a seemingly irrepressible rogue in the hands of a master storyteller.	2003-03-31
US	50093686	R27OEORH6SHUES	0425148297	587976494	Naked in Death (In Death, Book 1)	Books	4	4	6	N	N	An addicting series from the get-go	With NAKED IN DEATH, author J.D. Robb (better known to the world as Nora Roberts) introduces tough-as-nails New York City Homicide detective Lieutenant Eve Dallas. A serial killer announces his intent via a note left at a grisly murder scene: one of six. It is Eves job to stop this madman from achieving his ultimate goal. Her prime suspect for the first murder? Roarke, an Irish multimillionaire who was the first victims date the night she was killed. True to fashion in the romantic-suspense genre, Eve is mysteriously drawn to Roarke the instant she lays eyes on him -- in a computer-generated photo, no less. Roarke is equally captivated by the determined detective -- to the extent that he keeps a button that fell from her suit jacket during their first meeting. <br />Can these two strong-willed people find their way to each other and solve the case? The answer is a resoundingly obvious yes, but the way their relationship is born and plays out is infinitely satisfying. These two are constantly in the public eye, Roarke for his business dealings and social whirl, and Eve for the prominence of her cases, and it is interesting to see how they manage their relationship. Eve has her dark side, too, in that she has vague memories of an extremely sadistic, drunken, abusive father. Her unwillingness to let anyone into that part of her life is matched by Roarkes determination to not be shut out.<br />Perhaps not to other readers, but to me, the murderer practically jumped off the pages the second I encountered his character. The fact that the mystery was so obvious despite the feeling I got that Robb was trying to keep readers in suspense was offset by the sheer imagination of the world Eve lives in. Yes, shes a cop trying to solve a series of murders -- but shes a cop trying to solve a series of murders in the year 2058. This little twist opens up a whole new sense of wonder: at how much is different yet how much remains the same. Little things, or seemingly little things, have changed, making the world vastly different: cars have vertical lift, humans live much longer due to the invention of the cancer vaccine, real coffee is hard to come by due to the destruction of the tropical forests, the basics of crime forensics are exceptionally advanced, and people have colonized other planets. Still, so much remains the same, including the unending capacity for human cruelty and the intricacies of man-woman relationships. <br />The world of Eve Dallas was a fascinating place to visit, and I have quickly become addicted to this series. Highly recommended for Nora Roberts fans as well as romantic suspense fans and even people just looking for something slightly different than what they normally read.	2001-08-14
US	50093686	R286UXOPTSQBAZ	0451203585	754656703	The Dragon's Bride (Historical Romance, Signet)	Books	4	11	13	N	N	A beautiful story about second chances	Jo Beverley has always been an author who can make what seems to be a hackneyed plot seem fresh and new, and THE DRAGON'S BRIDE is no exception. In this tale, we meet Susan Kerslake and Con Somerford, reunited 11 years after an adolescent affair that ended very badly. <br />Con has come to Crag Wyvern to claim the inheritance he never wanted and never expected to get, but for the death of his older brother. The first person on his mind -- and the last person he wants to meet -- is Susan. Fate, naturally, is against our hero. He arrives to find a smuggling operation in place on the coast, and Susan in the thick of it. Not only that, but she is his housekeeper! Worse yet, he discovers that underneath all the anger, pain, and rejection of 11 years ago, he still wants her. <br />For her part, Susan expected to be gone by the time Con came to inspect his new holdings. But with her younger brother involved in the ages-old smuggling operation, and said operation being threatened by the government representatives and rival smuggling gangs, she can't leave. She is terrified when Con shows up so unexpectedly, for now she has to worry about his silence with regard to the smuggling. In addition, she is horrified to discover that she never stopped loving Con, that she had just boxed her feelings up inside, and all the love and regret from when they were 15 comes rushing back.<br />What makes this plot so unique is that there is no \\"big misunderstanding\\" to frustrate the reader: Susan and Con are very human and there is genuine blame in their brief affair, not the usual lack of trust that leads to ridiculous assumptions and partings. Nor is there is a huge mystery and terrifying villain to threaten our erstwhile protagonists, although the intrigue is still very present. Instead, this story provides stripped-down emotions, a visceral relationship between two very realistic and fallible people that is almost as wrenching to read as it would be to live. Another element that makes this story so beautiful is that without the \\"big misunderstanding\\" there is no \\"I hate you; no, I love you\\" nonsense going on. Con and Susan acknowledge their past and try to deal with it, but they work with each other, rather than against each other, in both their own relationship and in digging for secrets in the deeper past.<br />Some authors get sloppier or less appealing in their writing as they get more popular and publish more, but I have been delighted to discover that Ms. Beverley is certainly not among them. If anything, the writing in THE DRAGON'S BRIDE is better than in some of her previous works: a wonderful backdrop, witty and amusing secondary characters (including visitors from past works), and finally, fantastically strong and appealing protagonists. THE DRAGON'S BRIDE is on my keeper shelf, and highly recommended.	2001-06-29
US	50093686	R2B5S73R7W8A8X	0821766929	943742057	When Darkness Falls	Books	3	4	6	N	N	Enjoyable, despite the lousy editing job	In Shannon Drake's second installment of her chilling vampire trilogy, WHEN DARKNESS FALLS, readers meet Jade MacKinnon on what turns out to be the most terrifying night of her life. A tourist in Scotland, Jade witnesses a bloodbath when she takes a midnight ghost tour of Edinburgh's cemeteries. Some months later, her support group of fellow writers becomes concerned on her behalf when the other survivors of the Edinburgh tragedy start turning up dead - brutally murdered. Not only that, but there's no one around to protect Jade: her new boyfriend, gorgeous cop Rick, has come down with some exotic, flu-like illness. Then there's all the mysterious strangers entrancing the erstwhile and fanciful writers...<br />Not the least of these mysterious strangers is Lucian DeVeau, \\"king\\" of the vampires. Lucian has arrived to protect Jade from his enemy, Sophia, who believes Jade to be the reincarnation of Lucian's wife Igraine. Rick notwithstanding, Jade is captivated by the handsome, powerful, and enigmatic Lucian. In fact, she falls head over heels in record time. But is Lucian drawn to her, Jade MacKinnon, or is he only interested due to her resemblance to Igraine? Can Jade bring herself to love one vampire while being stalked by two others? Can Lucian see through the face of his old love to the real woman underneath? Can he give up his immortality the way Maggie did for Sean in BENEATH A BLOOD RED MOON?<br />The answers to most of these questions are obvious, but Drake's stunning, take-no-prisoners way of telling the tale keeps readers interested from the first page to the last. Lucian and Jade are good as stand-alone characters (as Lucian proved in Maggie and Sean's tale) and they make a very interesting couple; the chemistry, while rather abrupt, is not farfetched. Jade's optimism, gentleness, and sympathy is a great foil to Lucian's cynicism and protective instincts. The secondary characters, that wacky writers' group, are delightful - comic relief in the face of the pure evil that is Sophia and Damien. The unfolding of the plot in real time and in flashbacks to different points in Lucian's history is superb - Drake has mastered the art of suspense.<br />Like its predecessor, the only real complaint I have about WHEN DARKNESS FALLS is that there are a significant number of typographical errors in the book that can detract from the overall reading experience. It grated on my nerves that Lucian's soulful description of his native Scotland is marred by such a typo: he describes the appeal of his homeland as \\"like a heartbet.\\" Of course, you know he means \\"heartbeat,\\" but such a lovely sentiment should not be clouded up with errors. I've said it before, and it's worth saying again: Ms. Drake is a top-selling author who deserves a better editing staff.<br />Nonetheless WHEN DARKNESS FALLS is a compelling blend of romance, mystery, and horror, and I recommend it to fans of paranormal romances. I look forward to reading the conclusion to this trilogy, which, judging by the teaser included in the back of the present novel, should be as gripping as its predecessors.	2001-04-11
US	50093686	R2TOCNZJDOQM9V	0380805685	360399234	Scandal's Bride (Cynster Novels)	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Another dose of the delicious Cynsters!	The weather seems to conspire against Cynsters, helping Fate lead them to the altar. In this third installment, it is Richard \\"Scandal\\" Cynster Fate has in her sights. Richard, the illegitimate younger brother of Devil, has journeyed to the Scottish highlands to receive a long-delayed bequest from his deceased birth mother. On his way to McEnery House, he is forced to stop the night at an inn due to inclement weather. The inn is in the town in which his mother is buried, and he wanders to the cemetery that night to visit her grave.<br />Catriona Hennessy, Lady of the Vale, has been called from the lowlands to the reading of her guardian's will at McEnery House. Inclement weather forces her and her companion to break their journey at an inn in the nearest town (funny coincidence, that!). In her role as Lady of the Vale, Catriona is a channel of sorts for the wishes of The Lady and the guardian of the vale where The Lady is worshipped. Lately, she has been having very vivid dreams of a commanding, handsome, and restless knight. She decides she must go consult The Lady outside to discern her wishes. The answer is disturbing: \\"He will father your children.\\" On her way back to the inn, she is so busy pondering the meaning of this message, that she slips on the ice - and is caught by none other than Richard, the knight in her dreams.<br />Both Richard and Catriona are even more surprised to discover each other's presence at McEnery House, and even more shocked when Seamus McEnery's will is read. Richard has a week to marry Catriona or all McEnery's lands and wealth will go to the church, leaving the principal heirs to the estate destitute. While Richard is debating, Catriona, who does not wish to marry and lose power in the vale, takes matters into her own hands and attempts to fulfill The Lady's wishes to the letter, rather than consider the underlying meaning. She realizes she's in a real mess when Richard says &quot;yes&quot; to the terms of the will.<br />Laurens hascreated the finest example of lovers at cross-purposes in SCANDAL'S BRIDE. The fight for Richard to find a cause and for Catriona to understand that falling in love and getting married does not automatically mean losing individuality is great fun to read about. Richard is a perfect example of the family spirit embodied in the Cynsters. Catriona is terrific in her single-mindedness and generosity - not to mention her bravery, since (as Honoria pointed out) no other woman would be brave enough to slip an aphrodisiac to a Cynster and then crawl into bed with him!<br />The only parts of this story I had problems with were the \\"villain's\\" fairly weak excuse for villainy, and Richard's nickname in the Bar Cynster. It is explained that \\"Scandal\\" is short for \\"A Scandal That Never Was\\" since Devil's mother adopted Richard as her own, thus reducing any scandal of his existence in the Cynster fold. But it is well-known that Richard is a bastard and not in line for the dukedom, so I fail to see how scandal was avoided, apart from preventing Richard from being ostracized by the ton. Maybe this reasoning was Laurens' aim, but I think she's reaching a bit.<br />Nevertheless, SCANDAL'S BRIDE most excellently fulfilled my \\"Cynster fix,\\" and I recommend it to all Cynster fans. First-time Cynster readers should start with DEVIL'S BRIDE, but by all means, don't miss this third gem in the Cynster saga.	2001-03-28
US	50093686	R1KG37KQM5HRGF	0380794578	129042291	A Rake's Vow (Cynster Novels)	Books	5	7	8	N	N	The legendary Cynsters, continued	A RAKE'S VOW picks up where DEVIL'S BRIDE left off. After attending the dedication of a chapel roof Honoria Cynster strong-armed the single Cynster cousins into funding, Spencer \\"Vane\\" Cynster flees the realm of matchmaking mamas and marriage-minded debutantes, only to be done in by a storm. The erratic weather forces him to break his journey at his godmother Minnie's estate, and the first sight that greets his eyes upon his arrival is the too-fetching form of Patience Debbington, Minnie's niece, bent over a flower bed. <br />Vane is the last person Patience wants to see - not that they've met before, but she knows the type. Her father was a consummate rake, leaving her mother languishing in the country while he conquered town and ignored his family. Patience is alarmed when she learns Vane has decided to stay; she does not need someone as tempting as him in her life, and she certainly doesn't want him corruptly influencing her impressionable younger brother, Gerrard. Vane has agreed to stay and track down the mysterious \\"magpie\\" thief that has been plaguing the household, taking bric-a-brac which appears to have only sentimental value. On top of the thief, there also appears to be a specter haunting the ruins of the abbey on which the estate was built. The house's mismatched occupants - guests Minnie shelters to keep her from being lonely - appear to be united in their choice for a suspect: Gerrard.<br />Vane and Patience join forces to clear Gerrard's name, and on the way, they succumb to their strong mutual attraction. There's only one problem: Vane is metaphorically driving for the nearest church and Patience is running as far and as fast as she can in the other direction! Can Vane convince Patience of his sincere belief in love and family without having to grovel or humble himself? Will Patience learn to believe in love as a strength rather than a weakness? Given the Cynster history, readers know there will be a happily-ever-after, but only when both parties learn to give a little, guaranteeing that the way to true love is an interesting (and sometimes steamy) read.<br />Patience's doubts and fears of marriage without love are made vivid and real, and Vane, being the wonderful and sensitive man that he is, does a very complete job of convincing Patience to see the truth of his feelings for her. Patience, in turn, is just the right heroine to teach Vane that humbling himself to admit his love is not a bad thing when the rewards are so plentiful. Laurens has nailed the chemistry between these two very likable characters. The suspense is still a little lacking, although the mystery is a great deal less transparent than the one presented in DEVIL'S BRIDE - but keep in mind, this is not a mystery novel. A RAKE'S VOW is a great relationship story, and any fan of the Cynsters or Regency romances will appreciate it. Personally, I just may be hooked on Cynsters for life!	2001-03-27
US	50093686	RFI90WB91JXVX	038079456X	386673452	Devil's Bride (Cynster Novels)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	The start of an addicting series	DEVIL'S BRIDE is the first installment in Stephanie Laurens' Bar Cynster series, witty and passionate tales of mesmerizing and powerfully attractive Regency-era rakes. The Bar Cynster are six cousins who cut a swath through the ton and are \\"cursed\\" with the peculiar affliction of marrying solely for love. Their various journeys into love prove the expression \\"reformed rakes make the best husbands.\\"<br />In this first chapter of the Cynster saga, we meet Sylvester Sebastian Cynster, more commonly known as Devil, the Duke of St. Ives. Devil has no idea what Fate has in store for him when he rides the wooded bridle paths of his estate. In the woods, he meets Honoria Anstruther-Wetherby - crouched over his dying younger cousin, Tolly. Devil and Honoria manage to get Tolly to the gamekeeper's cottage, where he dies, unable to tell them the identity of his killer. A storm forces Devil and Honoria to pass the night in the cottage, where they are discovered the next day by various Cynster connections and Honoria's current employers. For propriety's sake, Devil immediate takes over and claims he will marry Honoria. But our heroine is a headstrong miss, an heiress who prefers to work as a governess of sorts, who will not bow to the dictates of such an autocratic decree, particularly when she has no intention of marrying - but every intention of solving the mystery of Tolly's murder. <br />Watching Devil and Honoria duke it out (no pun intended) in a battle of wills and of the sexes is extremely entertaining, and pretty much makes up for the fact that the mystery itself is fairly transparent and obvious. How they couldn't figure it out immediately is beyond me, but what is important are the changes these two strong-willed and stubborn protagonists make in each other. Devil learns that not everything can be his at the drop of a hat, that some things are worth working for, and that women (and by extension, wives) are not just for decoration and begetting heirs. Honoria learns that love can conquer irrational fears and makes some risks completely worthwhile. The banter between the two - Devil dictating and Honoria scoffing in his face - as well as their ultimate surrender to each other make DEVIL'S BRIDE a worthy read.<br />Laurens has the elements of romance firmly in place in DEVIL'S BRIDE; if she works on the mystery aspect in future Cynster tales, this series will become even better. Nonetheless, I'd recommend this series to any historical romance fan.	2001-03-20
US	50093686	R14MPJI7XJL7VP	0440226309	786066422	McClairen's Isle: The Ravishing One	Books	4	15	16	N	N	Concludes with new hope�and a twist�	MCCLAIREN'S ISLE: THE RAVISHING ONE is the stunning conclusion to Connie Brockway's dark saga of the Merrick family. In this final installment, Lady Fia Merrick takes center stage. She has spent years under the thumb of her evil and domineering father, Ronald Carr. Over time, she has discovered many things about the sire she previously worshipped, including the insinuation that he murdered her mother, Janet. As the story opens, Fia, recently widowed, is desperately plotting to regain her late husband's estate from Carr's clutches and to gain her freedom from Carr's manipulations at last.<br />The only other man who has held as much, if not more, sway over Fia's outlook on life is Thomas Donne. She worshipped him from afar as a child, right up until she overheard a vicious and unfortunate conversation in which Donne expressed his loathing of Fia as \\"Carr's whore.\\" But, whether she likes it or not, Thomas is back in her life.<br />Thomas McClairen, youngest and only surviving heir of the McClairen laird betrayed by Carr, has been infiltrating the Merrick camp for years under the name of Thomas Donne. When Carr deserts Wanton's Blush for greener pastures, Thomas obtains the property and begins to restore Maiden's Blush to her former glory. But all his plans will be for naught if the one woman he has never been able to forget, Fia Merrick, succeeds in her plans to corrupt his business partner. He does the only thing he thinks he can in the circumstances: he kidnaps Fia and takes her to McClairen's Isle to foil her schemes and save his partner. Little did he know that he would fall under her spell and become more captive than captor...<br />The ending of this trilogy is nothing short of magnificent. All the loose ends are tied up, and Carr gets his due in a most unusual plot twist. The epilogue allows readers a tiny peek into the futures of the Merricks and McClairens; at last, these tortured souls have the chance at their own happily-ever-after, not to mention a real shot at being part of a functional family.<br />I would recommend this thrilling trilogy to all Brockway fans, first-time Brockway readers, and anyone who likes Scottish tales with a little passion, recklessness, and ravishment thrown in. Brockway's well-written prose conveys the tales of these characters with wit and talent. The MCCLAIREN'S ISLE trilogy is a truly satisfying read.	2001-03-12
US	50093686	R1JVXTBNH6CH7I	0440226279	609969786	McClairen's Isle: The Reckless One	Books	4	8	8	N	N	The dark family saga continues�	In MCCLAIREN'S ISLE: THE RECKLESS ONE, Connie Brockway continues the dark saga of the Merrick family begun in MCCLAIREN'S ISLE: THE PASSIONATE ONE. In this installment, middle brother Raine Merrick gets the spotlight. Raine has escaped from prison in France with the help of a mysterious and deceptive lady. The manner of his escape, while perturbing, does not sway Raine from his goal: to return to McClairen's Isle and find the treasure he witnessed his late mother, Janet, secret away when he was a child. Despite his goal, his false lady still preys on his mind.<br />Favor McClairen has been told for years that she was the tool of her clan's ultimate downfall when she prevented Raine Merrick's execution for supposedly raping a nun. Her salvation, in her eyes and in the eyes of her remaining clansmen, lies in returning to McClairen's Isle and marrying Ronald Carr, the lord who betrayed the McClairen clan to the crown during the Jacobite rebellion. Thus, McClairens will rule the isle once more through her children once Carr has died. If only she weren't so distracted from her designated role by thoughts of the prisoner she betrayed in France.<br />Both Raine and Favor are stunned by each other's presence at Wanton's Blush. They embark on a quest to aid each other in their individual endeavors, but can they each triumph over Carr separately when they have an undeniable chemistry between them?<br />Raine does not seem as reckless as the title implies - at first. But when he risks everything to save Favor from her own demons, rolling the dice that will either bring him eternal happiness or eternal torment, we see why Brockway has named this book THE RECKLESS ONE. As in its predecessor, deep-seated honor and strength of character flow freely through the younger generation of Merricks, while Carr remains the epitome of evil. The secondary characters are extremely satisfying; our view of Fia is progressing nicely, so that we anticipate her story in the conclusion to the trilogy.<br />Those who enjoyed the first book in this trilogy will not be disappointed. Brockway's writing is consistent and satisfying. Highly recommended.	2001-03-12
US	50093686	RN4BIVXT81OMB	0821762982	871813508	Beneath A Blood Red Moon (Zebra romantic suspense)	Books	3	28	29	N	N	Entertaining, but definitely needed a better editor	Shannon Drake's BENEATH A BLOOD RED MOON is a compelling paranormal romantic adventure. It is set in the fascinating city of New Orleans, and begins at the scene of a brutal murder. Lieutenant Sean Canady, veteran homicide cop extraordinaire, and his greenhorn partner Jack Delaney, find droplets of blood leading from the practically bloodless corpse to a side entrance of Montgomery Enterprises, the haute couture shop owned by Maggie Montgomery. This grisly murder is only one of a rash of killings that have been plaguing New Orleans recently; it appears that a Jack the Ripper copycat is lurking, determined to make a name for himself.<br />Or does the killer want revenge? After all, Maggie is a vampire who's been around since before the Civil War. She's met a lot of people in her \\"lifetime,\\" some of them enemies. Most compelling of all these encounters in her past was another Sean Canady, Civil War hero and love of Maggie's life. Maggie finds herself drawn to present-day Sean. Is he a reincarnation of her beloved, and if so, can she keep him safe from her enemies? Not to mention tell him the truth about herself and live some form of happily ever after?<br />Drake's straightforward tone and concise style make Sean and Maggie's tale a gripping one; a reader can almost see and feel - and possibly even live - the events that take place. The characters are realistic and likable. Sean is one of those guys you'd like on your side when things go wrong. Maggie, despite (or perhaps because of) being a vampire, is an extremely down-to-earth person. The combination of these two leads is very appealing. The evil stalking them is very pervasive and demented, and its inevitable defeat is quite satisfying. Lucian is great as the enigmatic and cynical leader of the vampires. There is just enough violence and gore to make this a good horror novel, just enough emotion to make it a good romance. There are few too many loose ends for my satisfaction, but then, this is a part of a trilogy,so perhaps my questions will be answered later. <br />The only major complaint I have about this book is the innumerable typos. Sean's family plantation is alternately referred to as Oakville and Ashville. Present-day Sean also gets referred to as both Captain and Lieutenant. There are also so many misspellings that I was tempted to take a red pencil to the pages myself. Ms. Drake is a major writer in this genre under several names; you would think this would entitle her to a better editing staff.<br />In spite of these irritating errors, BENEATH A BLOOD RED MOON is still a good read for people who like paranormal plots in their romance novels. Even though I enjoyed this book \\"in spite of\\" a lot of things, I look forward to reading the next installment in the series.	2001-02-07
US	50093686	R13R1DJHXS2D17	0440226295	69460434	McClairen's Isle: The Passionate One	Books	4	23	24	N	N	Passionate start of a family saga...	MCCLAIREN'S ISLE: THE PASSIONATE ONE has to be one of the darker novels I've read lately. It introduces the saga of the Merricks, two brothers and a sister whose English father betrayed his Scottish in-laws during the 1745 Jacobite Rebellion in order to gain ownership of the castle then known as Maiden's Blush on the property called McClairen's Isle. Aside from betraying his in-laws, Lord Carr also, in all likelihood, murdered Janet, the mother of his children, as well as his second and third wives. In a nutshell, Carr is a horrid person and the perfect villain.<br />Ashton, the eldest child, lives what appears to be a very dissolute life, gambling and scandalizing the peers in London. In reality, he is scrimping all his winnings to ransom his younger brother Raine from a French prison. Carr knows this and uses the young man mercilessly, blackmailing him into taking on menial tasks and humiliating ventures for coin to accomplish his quest - but never enough, so that he will have Ash at his disposal for a very long time.<br />Ash's latest charge from his lamentable sire is to deliver a maiden by the name of Rhiannon Russell to (the renamed) Wanton's Blush. Ash assumes that Carr plans to make Rhiannon next in the long line of unfortunate brides. When he arrives in the village of Fair Badden to escort Rhiannon to Scotland, he finds she is just weeks away from getting married to someone else. Not only that, but there have been an alarming number of attempts on her life, a few of which he witnesses. Adding to his dilemma is the fact that he himself is drawn to Rhiannon, and she to him...<br />The thing I loved the most about this book is that Ash has to be the most tormented hero ever: he is a walking, talking definition of suffering for love - love of family, love of a woman, love of honor. He puts himself through endless pursuits to save Raine, he almost steps away from Rhiannon when he believes she has left, wanting only her happiness, and he even offers to take Fia,his baby sister, away from Carr, even though they never really knew each other as siblings. <br />Rhiannon herself is no slouch. She survived the Rebellion as a young child, is devoted to her adoptive family and her dog, and she has the courage to face her nightmares and fight for her life - and her love for Ash. Really, the chemistry and nobility between these two characters made me go through a whole box of tissues, they were so beautiful.<br />THE PASSIONATE ONE is no lighthearted romp. Readers expecting a cheery Regency-era comedy of manners are not going to find it here. I highly recommend this work of Brockway's to anyone with an interest in Scottish settings and passionate, reckless, and ravishing stories. This is an intense tale of the meaning of family, honor, and devotion - and, hopefully, as the trilogy plays out, revenge. I'm looking forward to seeing the rest of the Merricks find their way to peace, and for Carr to get his due.	2001-02-06
US	50093686	R3ND91XA1J92H9	0440235537	503029624	Red Roses Mean Love	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Satisfies on every level	RED ROSES MEAN LOVE was not my first Jacquie D'Alessandro book - I rushed out and bought it after reading WHIRLWIND WEDDING. I am happy to report that I was not disappointed - except that the book had to end!<br />Stephen Barrett, Marquis of Glenfield, meets Hayley Albright when she saves his life. However, because someone is trying to kill him, he tells her that his name is Stephen Barrettson and that he is a tutor. Initially upon accepting her hospitality, the austere lord is appalled by Hayley's living conditions - shabby manse, impertinent staff, rowdy children, and overbearing dogs. But as the weeks wear by, he not only grows accustomed to his surroundings, he experiences the one thing a man who has everything never had - love. He's head-over-heels with Hayley and her unconventional family, but there are two problems: he doesn't realize it well enough to call it love, and Hayley loathes deception. How can he tell her the truth without turning her away from him?<br />As for Hayley, she doesn't know what to make of the tutor who doesn't know Latin and cannot shave himself. She finds him compelling, even as he's lecturing her on propriety. She realizes that she - and her whole family - is falling in love with him, but she suffers no delusions about her desirability (she thinks) since her betrothed deserted her three years previously when she became responsible for her irrepressible siblings. Can she make Stephen care for her enough to take a tutoring position in the area and stay with her forever?<br />The emotion between these two very strong, determined, likable leads is palpable. Stephen and Hayley's communications, both direct and through the language of flowers, are witty, insightful, and very readable. The plot is believable, and the madcap adventures of the Albrights, from the sea-dog footman repairing the chicken coop to the nearsighted butler losing his spectacles in the stew to the temperamental French chef's threats of putting the cat in a pie to the sensitivity of grown men attending a six-year-old's tea party, will keep readers amused throughout the book.<br />I now count Ms. D'Alessandro among my favorite authors. After reading RED ROSES MEAN LOVE, you will too.	2001-01-26
US	50093686	R31II1VMSLALQ5	0380807149	969713177	All Shook Up	Books	4	7	9	N	N	Vintage Andersen -- funny, sexy, and sweet...	I loved Susan Andersen's other books, so I was eagerly awaiting ALL SHOOK UP. I was not disappointed - in fact, I didn't want it to end!<br />J.D. Carver is spoiling for a fight when he arrives at the Star Lake Lodge. His best friend back in Seattle has put him in a very uncomfortable position, and J.D. is having trouble believing that his former mentor, Edwina, had no sneaky ulterior motive in leaving him part ownership in the lodge in her will. Drucilla Lawrence is not only the manager of the lodge, but she also practically grew up on the property with her Aunt Sophie and Uncle Ben. Now, she sees it as a secure place to raise her son, Tate. She does not welcome the idea of a newcomer into her sanctuary, no matter how good his suggestions are or how mind-numbingly attractive he is. Star Lake is a small town - residents (and readers!) can just sit back and watch the sparks fly between these two stellar leads!<br />J.D. and Dru are two people who have deep-seated emotional problems, but recognize that love is worth any amount of risk. J.D. has never had a reliable source of emotional support in his entire life, and it's heartwarming to watch his reactions to Dru's lively, happy, caring, and unconventional family. Dru fashioned a support system for herself, but is still self-conscious and uneasy around the idea of commitment. The way J.D. changes her outlook on this aspect of her life and relationships is terrific.<br />With ALL SHOOK UP, Andersen delivers a style of writing consistent with her previous works: snappy and funny without skimping on deeper emotions and passion. She's taken a disparate set of characters - \\"bad\\" city boy, \\"good\\" country girl - and brought them together in such a way that readers can see their similarities. It's not a case of opposites attract; it's about soul mates finding one another.<br />ALL SHOOK UP is a meaty, satisfying read, one I'd recommend to both old and new fans of Andersen.	2001-01-19
US	50093686	RYPR351DC654V	0380809281	451484298	A Dangerous Love (Swanlea Spinsters, Book 1)	Books	4	9	11	N	N	A delightful romp	When I read the advanced excerpt of A DANGEROUS LOVE and discovered a Shakespeare-quoting heroine, I knew I had to read it. This is the tale of two emotionally unsure, strong-willed people who match wits and fall head over heels in love while trying to figure each other out. Rosalind is the middle sister of three sisters known in the district as the Swanlea Spinsters. Griff Knighton is the heir to the earl of Swanlea, Rosalind's father. Apparently, the dying earl is trying to get Griff to marry one of the spinsters in an effort to keep them from losing their home when the estate passes on. Griff wants nothing to do with marriage, but he does want something the earl has and is determined to get it. He compels his man of affairs, Daniel Brennan, to masquerade as him, so he can pursue his own agenda without interference from any annoying women. But everything changes when Rosalind mistakes Griff for an intruder in her father's study late at night and bursts in on him, wielding a sword in a most bloodthirsty manner that Griff can't help but admire...and so, the sparring begins!<br />Rosalind is a terrifically strong lead, with ironclad beliefs, emotional vulnerability, and a brain. She wants nothing to do with marriage to the next earl - she wants to make her way on the stage. As Griff observes, if Shakespeare had met this Rosalind, he would have written ten more plays. Griff, who spent much of his life in unjust poverty and shame, is an admirable man who is blind to his own needs and desires: he knows he wants Rosalind, but he does not realize why. Love stares him right in the face and he has no idea. It would be comical or annoying, except that his epiphany is so beautiful and complete. The way these protagonists exchange witticisms reminds me (rather appropriately, I think) of Shakespeare's Beatrice and Benedick. They are extremely frank with one another about all manner of things, which I found to be more entertaining and refreshing. And the way Griff vanquishes allof Rosalind's insecurities just melted my heart.<br />The remaining Swanlea Spinsters, Helena and Juliet, promise to be equally appealing heroines. Readers will also look forward to seeing more of Daniel Brennan, who strikes me as great hero material.<br />A DANGEROUS LOVE was my first experience with Sabrina Jeffries, but it most certainly will not be my last!	2001-01-10
US	50093686	R2R5NG0KYPGVHL	0380800829	704647865	The Duke and I (Bridgerton Series, Book 1)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	A story straight from the heart	Julia Quinn has been called a \\"contemporary Jane Austen\\" by Jill Barnett, and you can certainly see why in THE DUKE AND I. This is the story of Daphne Bridgerton, a debutante who longs for marriage and family, but is sick of the marriage mart, and Simon Basset, the Duke of Hastings, who is recently returned to England and determined not to get snared into marriage by any determined matchmaking mamas. Simon is friends with Daphne's brother Anthony, and when he and Daphne meet, they agree to conduct a sham courtship to simultaneously increase Daphne's eligibility and reduce Simon's chance of getting trapped into an unwanted marriage. But you know what they say about the best plans of mice and men...<br />Julia Quinn's THE DUKE AND I is a wonderfully heartwarming story with a witty and effervescent cast of characters. Daphne is a far cry from the stereotypical damsel in distress; she is incredibly intelligent and loving - all in all, a very likable person who appeals to Simon in spite of himself. As for Simon, he manages to be strong-willed and sensitive at the same time. He is sincere (if misguided), has a great sense of humor, and is the perfect match for Daphne. There is no dastardly villain lurking in the wings in this tale; rather, the characters deal with internal demons and the importance of love and family. <br />The secondary characters are just as strong and sympathetic as the protagonists are. Violet clearly, as Daphne says, has \\"hidden depths,\\" Anthony is the perfect scowling overprotective older brother, and Benedict and Colin are great rogues in the making. I look forward to the stories of the remaining Bridgertons.<br />THE DUKE AND I is a delightful comedy of manners that I'm sure Jane Austen, if she was around today, would get a kick out of. In lieu of that occurrence, fans of Regency-era romances will certainly devour it and come away wanting more. I know I did!	2001-01-09
US	50093686	R2DJRWXP21T71C	0061009059	830758196	One for the Money (Stephanie Plum, No. 1) (Stephanie Plum Novels)	Books	4	16	16	N	N	Fast-paced, well-written fun!	I finally decided to try Evanovich's Stephanie Plum series out because of the positive comments about these books on Amazon's discussion boards. I'm glad I did. ONE FOR THE MONEY was a terrifically engrossing, witty, and amusing tale. As soon as I finished it, I rushed out to get the others in the series, because I couldn't bear to part company with Stephanie and friends yet.<br />Stephanie is a great heroine, a woman who's not afraid to make major changes in her life, like going from lingerie buyer to bounty hunter. Her attitude reminds me a great deal of Laurell K. Hamilton's Anita Blake, with the exception that all the nasties after Stephanie are human, and unlike Anita, Stephanie's just starting in the business, so readers get to see her develop her skills from a completely blank slate. She has moxie - clipping Morelli with her car to revenge his adolescent seduction behind the éclair case, carrying concealed in a state where such a thing is illegal, venturing into the nastiest section of town on her own (although some, including me, might call this just plain stupid with an amazing amount of luck), commandeering Morelli's car...this girl is nonstop action!<br />The remaining cast of characters is well-rounded. The chemistry between Stephanie and Morelli sizzles. Grandma Mazur is bust-a-gut funny, as is the portrayal of family life in the burg. Ranger is appropriately tough and mysterious. Ramirez is so creepy I had to look around to see if he was following me. Evanovich brings her characters and the city of Trenton to life in her straightforward, take-no-prisoners prose.<br />My only complaint is that these books just go so fast! If you want a great weekend read, by all means, pick up ONE FOR THE MONEY. But I'm warning you now: you'll get hooked forever!	2001-01-04
US	50093686	RS86IF1PYVPFK	0515128554	608776329	Heart of the Sea  (Irish Trilogy, Book 3)	Books	4	12	13	N	N	Conclusion to a delightful series	JEWELS OF THE SUN, the first book in the &quot;enchanting&quot; trilogy by Nora Roberts, was the first Nora Roberts book I ever read. It hooked me on her books very quickly, and it's a great plus that she writes them fairly quickly.   HEART OF THE SEA is truly enchanting, as it says on the cover. The magic is more evident in this last installment: in the first book, Gwen was only seen, in the second (TEARS OF THE MOON) she spoke to Brenna, now, finally, Gwen actually sticks around to have conversations. It was very rewarding to finally get to hear her side of the romance with Carrick. And speaking of Carrick, he is as charming and impatient as ever! <br />I was also pleased that Roberts developed Darcy's character to be more than her materialistic traits that appeared prevalent in the pervious books. She is a caring and talented woman who is unafraid of going after what she wants, but she is vulnerable as well, which makes her more human and even more likable. Trevor is the perfect match for her. He, too, goes after what he wants with single-minded determination, which is why it's so great to watch the sparks fly between him and Darcy. <br />The secondary characters are back in force as well. Jude and Aidan's relationship is stronger than ever, and it is wonderful to see Jude's tremendous growth in confidence since JEWELS OF THE SUN. I confess to being a little disappointed in Brenna and Shawn; I expected them to bicker and snap good-naturedly as they did before they got married, but becoming husband and wife seems to have made them a little *too* sappy -- despite this, it was still nice to visit with them again. <br />HEART OF THE SEA and its predecessors are lighthearted and uplifting throughout, and I came away as fulfilled as I have with any book by Roberts.   Any fan of Roberts will appreciate this book; first-time readers, start this series at the beginning, but by all means, read it.	2000-12-29
US	50093686	RE8WXEE83IP0K	074340355X	555970377	Starlight	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A magical and humorous love story	STARLIGHT tells the tale of Alexander Fairbourne and Cora Margaret MacGillivray, two people who meet over......a cat?! Yes, a cat. Alex picks the seven-toed kitten for his sister from a mysterious woman who claims the cat will lead its owner to true love. He encounters the cat later - in the arms of Cora, who claims he is HER kitten, Starlight - and the magical tale unfolds from there. <br />These two are among the most unusual characters I have encountered in a novel: their personalities are so vibrant and real. Alex's sense of honor is wonderful to behold, his sense of humor is fantastic, and his sensuality is incredible. I envision Cora as a metaphor for Sleeping Beauty in the sense that she has been buried by the tragedy of losing everyone she holds dear on the fields of Culloden and then Alex comes along and shows her how to live again. The way Alex draws Cora out of her fearfulness shows his tender and caring side, and allows the reader to see that Cora is not some wimpy miss who hides from the world, that she is a brave as Alex claims she is. These two protagonists make a wonderful couple; their relationship is strong, and realistically portrayed in Jarrett's romantic prose.<br />The secondary characters are strongly represented as well. Over the time of the story, Lady Waldegrave's secrets are revealed and she is shown to be more sympathetic than she appears at the start. Diana, Alex's sister, is a delight, full of youthful mischief and naïve inclinations. I look forward to reading her story in STAR BRIGHT. Starlight is a very willful animal, in the way that only bold exploring kittens can be. I laughed until I cried over his adventures in the print room!<br />STARLIGHT was my first Miranda Jarrett book, but it will not be my last.	2000-12-28
US	50093686	R2YI8MXYR6EY3B	0345371984	913643876	Last Chance to See	Books	5	27	28	N	N	Conservation lessons couched in humor	I received my first copy of Adams and Cawardine's LAST CHANCE TO SEE from one of my roommates in college. I say &quot;first&quot; because I am now working on my fourth copy -- people I loaned it to kept keeping it!<br />In LAST CHANCE TO SEE, Adams does for the non-fiction natural world what he did for science fiction: he tells an entertaining story that brings each character to vivid life for a reader. The fact that his characters this time 'round are not space aliens and a beleaguered human being, but rather the most endangered of the endangered animals on the planet makes no difference. The aye-aye, kakapo, mountain gorilla, Chinese river dolphin, Komodo dragon, and even the Rodriguez fruit bat (&quot;...there are hundreds of them!&quot;) live on vividly in my memory, despite the fact that I have only seen the dragon and the bat in person.<br />The lessons to be learned in this book are most profoundly related in Cawardine's parable at the end: by losing these animals, and others like them, we are losing integral parts of the universe, important pieces to the puzzle of life. Once they are lost, there is no regaining them, and the world can never the same.<br />I would recommend this book to any nature lover (but don't ask to borrow my copy, I'm not losing another one!). I howled with laughter and retained the deeper meaning -- and from reading the other reviews, I can see others did the same. <br />LAST CHANCE TO SEE tops the list of my recommended, life-changing books. I believe nothing will ever knock it off the top. Read it!	2000-12-28
US	50093686	R359CZ3F9U6N2O	0380802309	753418941	Someone to Watch Over Me (Bow Street, Book 1)	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Nice plot twists and wonderful characters	SOMEONE TO WATCH OVER ME was my first Kleypas novel, and I think I made a good move in selecting it as an introduction to this author. This novel tells the story of Bow Street Runner Grant Morgan, and what happens to him the night he is called out about a drowning victim. Not only is the victim still alive, but he recognizes her as Vivien Duvall, a high-level courtesan who once turned down his romantic overtures. Predictably enough, she has amnesia as a result of her trauma. Grant decides that as a side benefit of solving her attempted murder, he will trick Vivien into becoming his lover to exact revenge for his wounded pride. But as he shelters the now-vulnerable woman over the weeks, he discovers the real Vivien. Or does he?<br />For her part, Vivien is confused at her circumstances and oddly shamed about the impression of her character she receives from Grant and London society. She is frustrated at her absent memory, fearful of the threat to her life, and, despite his callous affirmation of their \\"relationship,\\" powerfully attracted to Grant. <br />Kleypas allows us to view the true nature and vulnerabilities of these two wonderful protagonists through each other's eyes, which lends a very touching perspective to this tale. Her secondary characters are not terribly developed, but they are very likable. The twists in the plot and the growing emotions between Grant and Vivien are wonderful to behold, and leave readers wanting more even after the book is over. <br />First-time Kleypas readers, this is a good book to start with - I did, and ended up adding another author to my \\"must-read\\" pile! I'd recommend SOMEONE TO WATCH OVER ME to anyone looking for a meaty, satisfying romance.	2000-12-19
US	50093686	R2KLRUMTGN6AZD	0380807939	92174861	A Season Beyond a Kiss	Books	2	3	3	N	N	Disjointed and disappointing	When KW's &quot;sequel&quot; to THE FLAME AND THE FLOWER, Beau's story, THE ELUSIVE FLAME, came out, I was happy to see Jeff Birmingham as a happily married family man. So when KW backtracked a bit to tell his story, I was eager to read it.<br />Now I'm glad I got it on a special offer. I never finished it. First of all, KW picks up Jeff and Raelynn's story in the middle, then drags it out too long. I vaguely remembered reading the short story, but I didn't remember enough of it to know what the heck was going on when A SEASON BEYOND A KISS started, so I was lost from the first page!<br />OK, so maybe the newlyweds hadn't known each other long before Raelynn finds Jeff crouched over the body of a murdered girl, but I think her reaction was a little extreme for someone supposedly so deeply in love. I kept wanting to slap some sense into her as she exposed herself to more perilous dangers than the question of her husband's innocence.<br />Oddly enough, I did like Jeff. He was still the likable, joyful man he was in THE FLAME AND THE FLOWER. His sensitivity towards Raelynn's lack of trust was actually sort of touching, and I admired his sense of honor. <br />However, more than any of KW's other books, I would say this was a formula story: hero and heroine kept apart by misunderstanding, fat ugly villain with designs on the heroine, fat ugly villain's drunk/filthy and incompetent but no-less-evil henchman who is usually related to the heroine in some way, slutty/delusional serving-class girl with designs on the hero...not terribly original. I realize that a lot of romances use this formula, and KW herself has used it in the past, but the difference between KW's other books and A SEASON BEYOND A KISS is that the latter comes off as a slapdash effort with no real heart to it. This premise only works when the author has the enthusiasm and dedication to the characters and plot to make a basic formula seem vastly different than those that have gone before. KW has done this in her previous works, but A SEASON BEYOND A KISS ends up reading like a plug-and-play novel -- which is why I got so bored that I couldn't finish it.<br />Don't waste your time with this one. First-time KW readers should check out SHANNA, A ROSE IN WINTER, or PETALS ON THE RIVER.	2000-11-30
US	50093686	R102WLMN3GJZOK	0441304834	453010069	Guilty Pleasures (Anita Blake Vampire Hunter)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	First in a WONDERFUL series!	I'm not clear on how I ended up buying this book, but I will be glad I did for as long as I live and breathe! Laurell K. Hamilton's Anita Blake series has it all: action, humor, sex appeal...you name it. This is Buffy the Vampire Slayer for the intellectual adult!<br />What a concept -- the U.S. is the same, but for one teensy fact, vampires are legal. The political issues alone -- whether to maintain their legality, whether to grant them the vote, etiquette for patrons of vampire-owned businesses -- are cleverly wrought. When you have legal vampires (lycanthropes are legal too, but lycanthropy is classified as a disease) mixing with the human population, you get some really interesting situations...especially since legality doesn't instantly confer harmlessness on the monsters, and there are people out there who would do anything to rid the world of the monsters, nice or nasty, doesn't matter. In this first installment of the so-far 9-book series, Anita is &quot;hired&quot; by (more or less threatened into) the Master Vampire of St. Louis, Nikolaus, to discover the identity of a serial killer who has been preying on vampires.<br />Anita is a great heroine, intelligent, fast on her feet (she has to be, with the beasties that are after her!), brave, and not remotely squeamish.<br />In this book, we also meet some recurring characters, but the most important of these (to me, anyway) is Jean-Claude, the second most powerful vampire in the city, who has a thing for Anita -- lucky girl! JC is the first vampire I've encountered in fiction that I wish were real -- Anne Rice's vampires are interesting, sure, but I'd only offer my neck to JC!<br />Suffice to say, once I tried GUILTY PLEASURES, I ran right out and got the rest of the series! A word of advice -- these are books you DEFINITELY must read in order. If you're anything like me, you'll be waiting (im)patiently for the next installment, and hoping it never ends!	2000-11-29
US	50093686	R3P5TJ7A0OSGJK	0515129275	962634840	Irish Moonlight (Irish Eyes)	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Somewhat weak, but still entertaining	In this latest installment of the Irish Eyes series, we meet Erin McKeogh in a sort of MY BEST FRIEND'S WEDDING scenario: she is coming to Ireland under the impression that her &quot;nerdy&quot; friend and business partner, Con, is about to marry a fortune-hunter he's only known for a few weeks. What Erin doesn't know is that Con and Aisling have known each other longer than *she* and Con have known each other, but Con, for reasons never really made clear, never told Erin about Aisling. Meanwhile, Con has set up Phelan McDermott to distract his &quot;nerdy and shy&quot; friend Erin. Phelan, for his own deep, dark reasons, does not want to get close to Erin. And the plot thickens...<br />OK. There's the basic story. The characters were pretty enjoyable and the bare bones of the story were plausible, but there are enough small holes in this plot to collapse the Hoover Dam (maybe I exaggerate a little, but small holes in the logic drive me bonkers!). First of all, if Erin and Con are so close, *why* doesn't Con ever mention Aisling to Erin? Erin's brother, Nolan, has known all along. Con's parents, who appear to regard Erin as their own daughter, never tell her either. And this is over an 18-year period -- never once is Aisling brought up! Secondly, when he saw Erin so determined to stop Con's wedding, *why* didn't Nolan, her &quot;close and caring&quot; twin, say anything? Finally, if Con and Erin are so close, *why* does Con think she is shy, when it is made extremely clear that she is not?<br />I would also like to know what &quot;nerdy&quot; means in Kate Freiman's mind. The adjective brings to mind the stereotypical glasses, pocket protector, no-sun-exposure skin image for me -- in this story, we have three &quot;nerdy&quot; people, Erin who is beautiful, her twin Nolan who is as handsome as his sister is beautiful, and athletic to boot, and Con, who is never described as handsome, but you get the impression he is, and *he* is also active and athletic! If only all&quot;nerds&quot; could be so lucky....these three aren't nerds. They're intelligent people who have trouble relating to others, but they are definitely not &quot;nerds.&quot;<br />Despite all of this, I still enjoyed IRISH MOONLIGHT. The secondary characters are very sympathetic, and Phelan is one of these wish-they-really-existed heroes (apart from seeming a little full of himself at times, that is!). The sense of connection between Erin and Phelan is very real -- this love story is believable in spite of its holes. <br />Unlike some other books I've read, I do no regret spending my money on Kate Freiman's charming tale.	2000-11-28
US	50093686	R12JDTVTPLVOXH	0553582534	368339480	Temporary Mistress (St. John-Duras)	Books	1	7	7	N	N	Where's the romance?	I honestly do not know why I picked up another book by Susan Johnson, especially since I didn't particularly care for the other two I read, Taboo and Legendary Lover. OK, so there's some notes in the back on historical trivia. I like to see that in my historical romances. But more important than trivia or historical accuracy is romance, the relationship between the protagonists. I did not feel any sense of connection between Dermott and Isabella. Suddenly, after lots of sex, they decide they're in love?! He rescues her from her family's schemes, so they decide they're in love?! He gives her pleasure in bed, so it must be love? She's a sexual novelty to him, so it must be love?! Sorry, I just don't buy that. I wish I hadn't bought the book itself either.<br />If you're looking for a historical romance with grounding in real history and true character development, try Mary Jo Putney, Katherine Kingsley, Jo Beverley, Nicole Jordan, or (my latest favorite) Lauren Royal. If you're looking for a thinly-veiled sex-fest masquerading as a poorly written plot, read Susan Johnson.	2000-11-15
US	50093686	R17MYGO4Q655WE	0515129224	127177599	Soft Focus	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Still worth reading	I can see where some reviewers think JAK might be losing her edge, but I do not think such ideas belong to SOFT FOCUS. While not as fully developed as some of her earlier novels, such as FAMILY MAN and DEEP WATERS, SOFT FOCUS is still an enjoyable read.<br />I loved the opening scene between Jack and Elizabeth -- once or twice in my life I have felt like delivering such a crushing setdown in public, but never had the nerve. Elizabeth is a gutsy woman deserving of admiration. Jack's choice not to hide under the table is telling of his character as well. I also enjoyed the interaction between Elizabeth and her assistant, as well as Jack's discussions with Larry. JAK seems to specialize in characters from twisted families, so it's nice to see some normal characters make an appearance prior to the inevitable (but welcome) happy-ever-after. <br />While I do not know enough about film noir to attest to the veracity JAK's choice of a backdrop for her story, I certainly enjoyed reading about it.<br />Don't be too put off by poor reviews if you are a first-time JAK reader. SOFT FOCUS is worth the read. And if you are a first-timer, be sure to check out JAK's other books. You won't be disappointed.	2000-11-15
US	50093686	R198IULYXTEI6Y	0451201426	967771441	Emerald	Books	5	13	16	N	N	Lauren Royal does it again!	EMERALD returns us to the world of the Chases in Restoration England. Colin and Amy's story in AMETHYST was so wonderful that I was probably one of the first in line to buy Jason's story.<br />Jason Chase, Marquess of Cainewood, takes personal responsibility and honor to new levels. He is really an incredible man. His devotion to family and tenents is matched in Caithren Leslie, who is determined to find her brother in order to save her family's land in Scotland. Their adventures on their journey across the English countryside are funny, passionate (when I got to the bit with the strawberry...oh my!), and chock-full of emotion. Once I started this book, I simply could not put it down. I was one chapter from the end when it was time for me to go out of town for a wedding, and I crammed the book into my case for that one last chapter rather than wait to finish it upon my return!<br />I would only change one thing about this novel...in the acknowledgements section, Royal thanks the source of Caithren's mother's &quot;annoying...er, endearing&quot; (or something to that effect) words of wisdom. I did not find the little Scottish proverbs annoying in themselves, but did Caithren always have to go around exclaiming &quot;Michty me!&quot;??? Got to be a bit much after a while, but not so much that I would knock a star off the review...!<br />If you liked AMETHYST, you'll certainly enjoy EMERALD, and, like me, you'll be waiting for AMBER, Kendra's story -- hopefully, Royal will also grace us with Ford's story...	2000-11-15
US	50093686	R2FGOPTUHFTOHF	0451199510	787518791	Amethyst	Books	5	4	5	N	N	What a wonderful debut!	Almost from the instant I started reading AMETHYST, I felt transported back in time. Lauren Royal lists FOREVER AMBER as one of her inspirations, and it shows. The pageantry and superficiality of Charles II's court, as well as the individual tragedies of the Great Fire of London come alive in this novel.<br />Not only is the historical basis of AMETHYST extremely accurate, but the character development and interaction is superb. Many romance novelists tend to focus solely on the main couple, leaving me to wonder how happy-ever-after they would truly be when the villian is vanquished and the real world intrudes. Not so for Amy and Colin. They interact with the extraordinary and the everyday -- family, fellow disaster victims, and the king. There is a real sense that their story takes place in the world, not separate from it on some utopia-like plane. There is true chemistry and emotion between them, but you see their true character as well -- their unswerving loyalty, Amy's insecurities, Colin's sense of humor...it all has a very 'real' feel to it. <br />Based on this book alone, I would pick up any Lauren Royal novel, sight unseen. I just know I would not be disappointed.	2000-11-15
US	50093686	R21TE4H4RB5NKE	0449005844	548738377	The Wild Child (The Bride Trilogy)	Books	5	10	11	N	N	MJP is still going strong!	I finished this book in three days. It probably would have taken me less time, but I forced myself to stop for food and sleep and going to work! I was just breathless when I got to the end of the book. I had also used up  about half a box of tissues -- not that it was tragic, it was just so  beautiful and emotionally charged that I turned on the  waterworks!<br />Dominic's compassion -- and later passion -- for Meriel and  his unswerving loyalty to his estranged twin, Kyle, make him a hero to be  reckoned with. Meriel's retreat from the world after childhood tragedy and  her creativity in expressing herself without speech make her a very  sympathetic heroine. The emotion between these two protagonists is  devastating to behold, absolutely, heart-breakingly beautiful. Kyle's  loyalty to his &quot;other obligation&quot; (I won't give anything away!)  makes me very glad that we will learn his story in The China Bride.<br />I  also appreciated the fact that MJP links this new family of novels to one  of her previous novels, Uncommon Vows. Linking characters from different  novels, however loosely (but always convincingly) provides the reader with  a sense of connection and allows the reader to develop a rapport with the  characters, and this is something MJP does very well. <br />Some authors tend  to lose their steam, so to speak, after several novels, but this is not the  case with MJP. The Wild Child is a shining example of her amazing talent. I  would give it 20 stars if I could!	2000-07-11
US	50093686	RDZ7WFQ2V61C0	0671524208	651219221	Deep Waters	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Romance with a sense of humor	Deep Waters was the first contemporary romance novel I ever read, as well as the first JAK book. I have to say, I got totally hooked! I found the Zenny water philosophy of Tal Kek Chara to be an extremely creative  addition to the book, and the space-cult storyline was hysterically funny.  One of the reviews on the book calls the relationship between Charity and  Elias a &quot;Tracy-Hepburn&quot; alliance, and I have to agree. They had  such passion, understanding, and (oddly and entertainingly enough) humor.  The secondary characters were equally personable. I loved every minute of  my reading experience, and Deep Waters is one of the few books in recent  memory that I have picked up again and again, and enjoyed just as much each  time I read it.<br />One final note, not really plot-related, but I have to  say how much I loved the detail JAK uses in her writing. Charity and  Elias's cooking contests had me in stitches -- and rummaging through my  cupboards and cookbooks!<br />This is also the only romance novel I have given  as a gift. I would highly recommend it to any fan of JAK or intelligent  contemporary romance.	2000-07-11
US	50093686	R1OC7JANVJSBYS	0440223865	557780274	Call Down the Moon	Books	5	1	2	N	N	My favorite Kingsley book	Call Down the Moon is a wonderful, witty, funny, and devastatingly  emotional book. The characters are very sympathetic. I really felt for  Meggie in her fear of letting Hugo know she is a lucid and intelligent  woman, and for Hugo in his fear of letting Meggie know about his need for  her fortune. This book also provides a lesson in perception, similar to  Mary Jo Putney in her book The Wild Child; Hugo's reactions to realizing  that Meggie is normal and in learning the truth about his childhood are  very touching. The emotions building between the two main characters are  utterly believable and extremely palpable. It was from reading Call Down  the Moon that I purchased all of Katherine Kingsley's books, but this one  will still be her best in my eyes.	2000-07-10
