US	50104667	R1OZW47JD2H98F	0690011318	15549931	Lombardi: Winning is the only thing	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Gold for Packer Backers	Shortly before the untimely death of Vince Lombardi, Jerry Kramer set out to collect the stories of those who knew his coach professionally.  Included in the book is Frank Gifford, Bart Starr, Paul Hornung, Willie Davis, Max McGee, and a large collection of others.  Through the eyes of those who best knew the football genius, Kramer retells the tales that give us the best insight into the personality of the coach.  Packer fans have long cherished this book. <br /> <br />This book is far from a biography and servs more like a collection of anecdotes.  For those seeking a biography of Lombardi, I would recommend, \\"When Pride Still Mattered\\" by David Maraniss.  This collection of stories is a light that is certain to make Packers fans smile.	2005-10-14
US	50104667	R19NAIL7YU1SDW	0879101369	289693277	Fiddler on the Roof: Based on Sholom Aleichem's Stories	Books	4	5	10	N	N	See it Live!	Reading \\"Fiddler on the Roof\\" is not the same as the experience of seeing it performed.  In print, the story falls as flat as the pages.  With so many characters the reader may have trouble decoding what is happening to who. <br /> <br />\\"Fiddler ...\\" is a wonderful story that captures Jewish life in pre-World War II Russia as well as any book.  With humor, the reader sees the world through the eyes of a man with five daughters that need husbands.  As each daughter gets hitched, a new wrinkle to the story is added.  But the story ends on a sad and ambigious note as the family is forced from their land because of \\"... trouble in the world\\".  With this, the very tradition on which the story is based is shattered.	2005-10-12
US	50104667	R23SXMJP3XB27H	1557253080	712668215	Seeking His Mind: 40 Meetings With Christ (Voice from the Monastery, 1)	Books	5	15	15	N	N	The Voice	In \\"Seeking His Mind\\", M. Basil Pennington brings Christians to the concept of lectio.  More than just reading the Bible, lectio is absorbing the word of God through numerous means.  We are to listen for the voice of God in our hearts, our neighbors, and other interactions with society.  Through this, we will grow in our relationship to God.<br /><br />Pennington has selected 40 entries in scripture for reflection which are concise but enlightening reads.  I was surprised to note that Pennington even managed to inject humor into various points that give a new light to scripture as a Sunday sermon often does.  Taking each story separately, the reader will enjoy the greatest benefit.  The reader will need time to reflect on what he/she has read.<br /><br />In the same breath, the author also encourages lectio through reading other Christian books.  He is not trying to hawk his book, just foster the spiritual development of others.  This is a great little book.	2005-10-10
US	50104667	RQLYK4VZMVZBR	0375758518	529762488	Tepper Isn't Going Out: A Novel	Books	4	1	6	N	N	A Book About Nothing	This is a book about nothing in the same respect as \\"Seinfeld\\" was a show about nothing.  I found nothing particularly moving about the main character Murray Tepper and his quirks.  However, the story is an entertaining jab at the government and spoils system like the one that has become evident in Washington.    Tepper isn't going out.  If he is going to have to pay for parking, he should get his money's worth.  This simple philosophy of life attracts complete strangers to him.  While drawing the support of the populous for his stance, he ruffles the feathers of the mayor.  This mayor will soon me seeking reelection but feels threatened by the lawlessness that Tepper represents.  Unfortuantely for the mayor, Tepper has broken no law.    At a certain point in the book, I could not sympathize with the main character.  If you can't find parking, move out of the city.  I know that's why I live outside the city.  Still, the book has entertainment value.	2005-10-06
US	50104667	R3JCVRWMLA0S9A	0684841258	579184758	God Knows	Books	2	8	14	N	N	Pretty  Sophomoric	In \\"God Knows\\", Joseph Heller attempts to tell the story of King David through arrogant eyes.  Rather than finding David intelligent or witty, I just found him annoying.  In a long book, this is not a good thing.  The story seems verbose while lacking the strong social commentary of Heller's other works. <br /> <br />The attempts at humor made throughout the book missed the target for me because the characters were beyond my liking.  While I did find the occasional snicker on some pages, I found myself wishing for the pain to end.  The endless jokes about circumcision were almost as painful as the operation itself. <br /> <br />I have enjoyed Heller's other books including \\"Catch-22\\" and \\"Something Happpened\\".  To me, this book just missed the mark which may be why this is not one of his better known works.  Others may enjoy this book, but it is certainly not for everybody.	2005-10-04
US	50104667	RACBJFRX1KXVS	0451166884	368946078	The Want-Ad Killer (True Crime)	Books	5	5	8	N	N	Killer Search	The concept of a killer placing want-ads to attract victims is quite fascinating.  I was disappointed to learn the Harvey Carignan only did this with one victim.  Because of this, I think the title is a little deceiving.  While not being Ann Rule's best book, \\"Want-Ad Killer\\" is a solid read. <br /> <br />Carignan's crime spree should have ended in Alaska after his first murder.  Unfortunately, he became a free man because of legal technicality.  After moving to Washington, he left a trail of rape and murder that ended in Minnesota.  Preying on teenage girls, he lured his first victim as a free man through a want-ad.  After the police surveillance became too much, he shifted his crime spree to Minnesota.  It is difficult to ascertain how many victims he had there.  But the ones he allowed to live ended his crime spree. <br /> <br />Having read some of Rule's other books, I was a little disappointed with this one.  It was still an enjoyable read as Rule is one of the best true crime writers in print.	2005-09-29
US	50104667	R23WTYFGLP1NBG	0140249389	822058204	Broken Glass (Penguin Plays)	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Broken	\\"Broken Glass\\" is a thriller set in 1938 that personifies the fear that Hitler caused Jews in America.  While this plot seems compelling, the story falls a little flat it other areas.  This is far from Miller's best work. <br /> <br />When Sylvia suddenly looses the use of her legs, medical origins are unexpected.  Yet as the story evolves, we find the cause to be psychological.  It is suspected that a fear of the Nazi's treatment of Jews in Germany has caused her paralysis.  However, there was something more.  Sylivia has lived in a marriage with her husband Phillip that feels empty.  They have not consumated their marriage in twenty years when their last child was conceived.  Sylvia was raised in a family that coddled her and made her feel secure.  Her marriage lacks all of the qualities of the family she was raised in.  In a twist that seems out of place, Phillip suddenly dies in the last scene just as he promises to change for Sylvia.  This happens just moments after she walks again. <br /> <br />In so many ways, this work does not seem to have the fingerprints of Arthur Miller.  The characters are one dimensional and forced just for the sake of discussing one of Miller's most comfortable plots, anti-Semitism.  Many of Miller's later works are disappointing.  This fits that category.	2005-09-26
US	50104667	R2BFCN5TCDWCUI	0822206412	63774869	The Last Yankee.	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Money	While this is a very slight work by Miller, it has two themes that polarize our society.  Money is the theme that draws two women away from their husbands and into a mental health facility.  One of the women feels that her husband does not provide enough.  The other woman recieves everything but her husband's time.  The other factor is the idea of victimization.  The feeling that a certain people are frowned upon because they are considered foreigners in America.  In this work, the comparison is between a Swedish and Yankee family.      While Miller leads the reader to believe that one of the women is a great deal sicker than the other, Miller includes a moral in the play.  The woman that wanted more realizes all that she has and feels better.  This woman leaves the health facility.  The other woman who we are led to believe is the least ill despite having everything she could want finds she can not have what she really wants.  Her husband has no time for her.  She stays at the health facility depsite our earlier impression that she would be the one leaving.    This work is far from special and lacks much of the depth of Miller's other works.  That being said, fans of Miller will probably still enjoy it.	2005-09-24
US	50104667	R6SCTV01G85E7	0140042407	206112752	Tortilla Flat	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Cheers!	John Steinbeck knows about people and he knows how to tell a story.  Much like with his other works, this is evident in \\"Tortilla Flat\\".  While the book really does not have a dominant plot, the story reflects some interesting people with their quirks in a realistic situation.<br /><br />Returning from a tour of duty, Danny finds that he has inherited some property which includes two houses.  While Danny lives in one house, he collects friends like bottles of cheap wine to live in the other house.  But when the second house burns, his friends are forced to move in with him.  The house get even more crowded as more friends join the lackadasical lifestyle of taking in sunsets and sipping wine.  With each new friends comes a new idiosyncracy that is added to the dynamic of friends.  Then the day came when Danny seemed to snap for no particular reason.  With Danny's demise, the friends go their separate ways.<br /><br />John Steinbeck captures the human spirit with the colorful backdrop of early 20th century California in many of his works.  With \\"Tortilla Flat\\", Steinbeck proves that he does not really need a strong plot to write an entertaining book.	2005-09-22
US	50104667	RDP56TJB89YRB	0805069054	9917067	James Madison (The American Presidents Series)	Books	5	22	26	N	N	A Cornerstone of America	In halls of American history, few people are as overlooked as James Madison.  While his presidency was largely forgettable, his influence on the country through his work on the constitution can not be forgotten.    In this concise work by Gary Wills, Madison is portrayed as a slight and fragile man.  Yet even in early adulthood, he showed the markings of a leader.  Overcoming his quiet nature and small size, he played a key role in writing the Constitution.  He championed the cause of separation of church and state.  Madison felt that faith must be genuine and can not be forced.  A forced faith is dangerous to the future of the religion, potentially causing it to loose its meaning.    Madison's presidency was marred by the War of 1812.  This often misunderstood chapter in American history is given an excellent explanation on page 97.  Through the course of this war, Madison protected the Constitution as well as ending the reigns of political patronage than caused earlier battles in the war to be failures.      Much like Thomas Jefferson paved the path to the presidency for Madison, Madison also left a legacy of rising stars in the party then known as Republican including James Monroe and Andrew Jackson.  Were it not for Jackson's military success, the country stood to loose ground in the War of 1812.  Instead, the country ended the war with the same amount of territory as when it began the war.    While this biography is short, I must admit that I learned a great deal from it.  I believe this book can hold its ground against any biography of Madison.  While not caught up in frivolous details, it tells a great story.	2005-09-19
US	50104667	R3MS2WBFCZLCZS	0140366679	900054889	White Fang (Puffin Classics)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Raised by Wolves	With the insight Jack London provides in \\"White Fang\\", one must wonder if he was raised by wolves.  It takes a sharp imagination to see through a wolf's eyes in this way. The vantage point alone makes this book a worth while read.    \\"White Fang\\" is the unlikely tale of a wolf that goes from living in the wild to living a tame life.  From the ownership of Gray Beaver to Beauty Smith to Judge Scott, White Fang lived an interesting existence.  From his humble beginnings as an abandoned puppy, the wolf is raised by She-Wolf.  Almost accidently, White Fang learns to hunt.  After the first taste of warm blood, the wolf becomes known for its savagery.  In a twist of fate, White Fang gains fame to faithful service to humans and saving human lives.    I felt the writing of London was a bit verbose at points in the book.  While this was torturous on the attention span, it did not take away from my enjoyment of the book.	2005-09-15
US	50104667	R17AL15Z21CHPS	0812504321	244802770	The Call of the Wild (Tor Classics)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Wild Canine	\\"The Call of the Wild\\" is a classic.  I first read this book in grade school and recently decided to revisit the story.  While it is a short read, it is enjoyable.<br /><br />Buck is taken from his easy life as a loyal pet to serve as a sled dog for a cruel master.  As Buck struggles to gain his footing as a sled dog, he struggles with the lead dog that is symbolic of all oppressive authority figures.  Like many of foes, Buck thrashes the lead dog in his path to legendary status.  It was not until Buck has John Thornton as his sole master that he finds true companionship again.  But when Buck looses John, his transformation from house pet to wild animal is completed.  Achieving difficult feats and proving his mark in the wild, Buck becomes a legend in the frozen wastelands of the Yukon.<br /><br />In prose that can be easily understood by young readers, this book can be enjoyable for all ages.  When it comes to stories from the perspectives of animals, Jack London has no peers.	2005-09-11
US	50104667	R1PY16SUOW8Z4W	0020199058	996591783	Joshua and the Children: A Parable	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A Beautiful Story	Many will suggest that Joseph Girzone is a bit too simplistic in his writing.  That is probably his one flaw.  In \\"Joshua and the Children\\", we find Joshua modeling Jesus's commandment that we all should model the innocence of a child.  While the plot is predictable, this does not make it less heat-warming. <br /> <br />The main character of the book Joshua, is a modern incarnation of Jesus.  In this second book in the series, Joshua arrives in a small town divided by conflict between Catholics and Protestants.  Although it is not explicitly mentioned, the use of words like \\"tavern\\" and \\"pub\\" suggest the story is set in Ireland.  By making the children of the town put aside their differences and unite, Joshua pacifies the conflict until the radical religious groups plot Joshua's demise.  Only when Joshua is no longer around do the radicals and all other members of the community realize the specialness of Joshua's presence. <br /> <br />The writing of the book may be targeted at a younger audience, but I believe any Christian can appreciate this book.  I look forward to reading other books in the series.  I do believe that the first \\"Joshua\\" may be more enjoyable to older readers.	2005-09-10
US	50104667	R21CLC6TNA367O	0874779251	721259765	Return to Tibet: Tibet After the Chinese Occupation	Books	3	6	9	N	N	Can't get there from here	The parallels between this book and China's takeover of Tibet are remarkable.  Both China and Harrer seem to be exploiting Tibet for financial means.  Harrer's first book on the subject, \\"Seven Years in Tibet\\", is a remarkable book that was made into a movie.  Unlike the first book, this book seems to have little purpose.    It is truly a tragedy what happened to Tibet.  The people of this peaceful country were taken over by a hostile aggressor without aid from the rest of the world. Admittedly, Harrer rehashes many of his tales from \\"Seven Years in Tibet\\" in this book.  After thirty years, Harrer is finally allowed to return to Tibet, now under China's rule.  Harrer finds much of the land he once knew in ruins.  However, Harrer gives little description of the change.  I realize he was not allowed to photograph or view certain areas.  But with so little to write about, why write a book?    Most readers of this book are keenly aware of China's mistreatment of the people of Tibet.  Harrer gives first hand accounts through interviews of the Tibetans that stayed in Tibet when China began its rule.  Many of these Tibetans have been tortured into abiding by China's rule.  What I found most shocking is the lack of awareness of the people of China that their country has possession of Tibet.      With such a beautiful cover, one expects many beautiful pictures on the inside.  Unfortunately, most the pictures come from the 1950's.  Did rules against pictures in certain areas really affect his production that much.    Another major omission I found in the book is motivation.  Why did China engulf Tibet?  Harrer briefly suggests that they felt the differing way of life lived by Tibetans was a threat to China.  But why attack a peaceful people?  Are the Chinese afraid of the Dalai Lama?  Is the Tibetan brand of Buddhism that different from China's?    The downfall of this book comes in Harrer's living in the past.  He can't seem to bring himself to describe what is left of the Tibet he once knew.  Aside from speaking to a few Tibetans and describing some of the architecture, this book fails.  It seems that Harrer is rehashing his last book mixed with images from his 1982 visit.	2005-09-07
US	50104667	R3J86LQ65Z0LZR	0895550393	6081436	St. Anthony: The Wonder-Worker of Padua	Books	5	37	38	N	N	Miracle Worker	St. Anthony of Padua lived a truly remarkable life.  The parallels between his life and the life of St. Francis of Assisi are uncanny.  Both rejected the comforts of a noble upbringing for a life of solitude and service to God.  St. Francis of Assisi was clearly a major influence on the life of St. Anthony.    Many recognize St. Anthony as the saint to pray to when things are lost as well as praying to him for safe travels.  However, few people are familiar with the miracles performed by St. Anthony.  So profound was his work, that the pope put his cannonization into progress within a year of St. Anthony's passing from this world. Whether converting pagans and muslims or raising the dead, nothing was impossible for this man who was clearly in the Lord's favor.      The printing of S.A.G. on letters invokes the saint's protection on letters and packages.  This a small though popular way our lives are influenced by St. Anthony.    For those seeking to learn of the divine life of St. Anthony and his miracles, I would highly recommend this book.  While the text is brief, the book is packed with information.  The faithful should have difficulty stepping away from this read.  It should be difficult not to find inspiration in reading this book.  I would hope St. Anthony would guide my life in order that my work might be pleasing to the Lord.  I would hope the same for other readers as well.	2005-09-03
US	50104667	R2MPI65ZHNS201	0743490355	502388049	Depraved: The Definitive True Story of H.H. Holmes, Whose Grotesque Crimes Shattered Turn-of-the-Century Chicago	Books	4	38	42	N	N	The Devil of Chicago	After reading \\"The Devil in the White City\\", I was curious to learn more about H.H. Holmes/Herman Mudgett.  Being familiar with some of his other work, Harold Schechter seemed to be a logical choice for the best book on Holmes.  While the book was very thorough, some aspects of it left me with mixed emotions.    Parallel to the 1893 World's Fair hosted in Chicago, Holmes began a prolific killing spree.  Inhabiting a large building known as the Castle, Holmes seemed to be an outstanding citizen.  His charm allowed him to con insurance companies and other businesses.  With bigamous marriages and several mistress, he also easily charmed women in a much more conservative time.  Behind closed doors is when Holmes became a monster.  Often through slow means such as poisoning and suffocation, Holmes disposed of his victims even after he left his house of horrors known as The Castle.    The major complaint I have with the book is that it tends to run a little long-winded at times.  Section 3 is the documentation of Holmes fleeing Chicago and criss-crossing the country on various schemes.  This is recounted in its entirety in Section 4 as investigators track the steps of Holmes.    This flaw is compensated by the details of Holmes' trial which created some humerous scenarios.  The epilogue which discusses the \\"Holmes Curse\\" is also quite interesting.    While the two are not directly comparable, I enjoyed \\"The Devil in the White City\\" more than \\"Depraved\\".  However the details of Holmes' life make this a solid read for those interested.  Just skip the 4th section.	2005-09-02
US	50104667	R1WI92ARWBTNZZ	0061020699	863190678	Equal Rites	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Wizards and Witches	In the world of the irreverent, Terry Pratchett is the reigning king.  In a story that links the equal rights for women to Discworld, Terry Pratchett's talent for puns and tongue in cheek humor thrives.<br /><br />Drum Billet wanted to pass his skills to an new apprentice when he died.  Unfortunately, the apprentice he expected to be a boy was born a girl.  Training a female wizard would break the \\"lore\\" of wizards because there is no precedent.  Conflicts arise when famed Discworld witch Granny Weatherwax tries to help young Esk use her powers toward becoming a witch.  Frustrated by her lack of progress, Weatherwax and Esk set out for Ankh-Morpork and the Unseen University to enter Esk in wizard school.  Along the way to Esk establishing her status as a wizard, we meet a young wizard with horrible allergies and the Zoons who chose the best liar among them as their leader.<br /><br />Prachett's wit shines in this short book. Although I did find myself overwhelmed with the jargon at times, I really enjoyed this book.	2005-08-28
US	50104667	R36ISFDUSL6PCM	014048244X	584707195	The Ride Down Mt. Morgan	Books	5	1	1	N	Y	Happiness and Loneliness	In a number of ways, \\"The Ride Down Mt. Morgan\\" parallels \\"Death of a Salesman\\".  Both plays include a man searching for something in the present with flashblacks spliced into the scenes.  The greatest difference between the plays is that many people can identify with Willy Loman from \\"Death of a Salesman.  It is harder to identify with Lyman Felt and his bigamy.    Lyman wants to find happiness and discover himself.  After one successful marriage, he begins an affair that leads to a pregnancy.  Rather than taking a more logical route, Lyman chooses to marry a second wife.  He leads the second wife to believe that he divorced the first wife.  Nine years later, a car accident on Mt. Morgan leads the two wives to meet at the hospital.  It is there that Lyman explores his motivation for bigamy and the guilt for the pain he has caused.  Ultimately, Lyman discovers his true self in loneliness.  He is left to himself and the mess he created.    \\"The Ride Down Mt. Morgan\\" seems a bizarre premise for Miller to explore.  The reader must wonder if bigamy is a more narrow divorce for Miller to explore extra-marrital affairs.  While this aspect of the storyline seems distant, it is hard not to feel the emotion in this tale of love lost.	2005-08-27
US	50104667	R1LHLJP3XDQU05	0140053204	690446916	Travels with Charley in Search of America	Books	4	4	6	N	N	People Don't Take Trips, Trips take People	With the knowledge that a trip evolves and causes the traveler to evolve with time, John Steinbeck set out across America in his waning years.  In his most noted work of non-fiction, Steinbeck ultimately discovers that there are more similarities than dissimilarities in Americans.    Steinbeck's writing lacks a genuine plot as he documents the places he visits in \\"Travels with Charley\\".  His writing portrays itself in a manner best described as stream of conscious.  Readers that find this writing style irritating will think less of the book.  The unique aspects of the book include getting to see Steinbeck as his own main character and the wit that accompanies the role.    Steinbeck emerges from New York with the intent of rediscovering the Americans he spent a lifetime writing about.  With his travel companion the French poodle Charlie, Steinbeck continues through the Midwest, visiting places he has not seen in years.  When Steinbeck arrives in his beloved California, he discovers how much has changed since he grew up there.  It is a disturbing sight to see the land that you loved has passed.  From the far west, Steinbeck circles through Texas and the south.  It is in the south that he observes the racial prejudice of the south first hand in the civil rights movement.      While this is not my favorite work of Steinbeck, it holds up well to the standard of his works of fiction.  The one question of the book that I am most curious is whether the book sold enough copies to pay for his trip.  I suspect that it did.	2005-08-26
US	50104667	R38QE4AP58MI69	0385720327	851897587	In My Hands: Memories of a Holocaust Rescuer	Books	5	30	31	N	N	"God Has Big Plans for your Daughter"	This quote begins Irene Gut Opdyke's tale of heroism and courage.  The quote comes from the local minister after he learned the story of the family dog saving a young Irene from falling into the river.  The priest's proclamation could not have come more true.    As a young adult in Poland, Irene's childhood ended with the Nazi invasion.  Relocated from her family for her nursing skill, Irene was well traveled by the war's end.  In the most unlikley of circumstances, Irene found herself as the housekeeper of a German officer.  Just before this promotion, she had begun illegally sending food to the Jewish ghetto.  So while working in the German officer's house, she took a bolder step.  She hid several Jews in the cellar of the house.  If she was caught, her execution would have been certain.  She sacrificed dignity and humiliation in order to preserve the lives of those she protected.  In a twist of fate, it was many of the same Jews that she helped survive the war that helped her to settle after the war.    It is often forgotten that many Germans and Europeans did not support the Nazis.  With this in mind, many Christians were hiding Jews and helping them to survive until the fall of the Nazi regime.  Because my own grandmother kept several Jews on her farm during the war in Poland, this book struck a personal chord in me.  This is a side of the Holocaust and World War II that is not often told.  For her bravery and her book, I commend Irene Gut Opdyke.  Her story is so good, it is almost beyond belief.	2005-08-24
US	50104667	R2LWPZALDDV5I7	0440224675	313045692	Hannibal	Books	5	12	17	N	N	A Meal Fit for a King	Some books are so well written and so compelling that the reader hopes the book will never end.  This is one of those books.  As a fan of the Hannibal series, I only recently began reading Thomas Harris's books.  With this book, I completed the first three books.  Of these three, \\"Hannibal\\" shows the greatest difference from the movie.  The plot lines omitted from the movie that are part of the book reveal several different dimensions to the story.  These alterations leave the movie inferior to the book.    Hannibal Lecter has been on the run for seven years.  Not only is the FBI still seeking him, but Lecter's only living victim has the desire and means to return the pain Lecter inflicted.  While the Starling and Hannibal story line largely runs parallel to the movie until the end, the book develops the Mason Verger character to greater depth.  The book elaborates on Verger's motives while further explaining how Lecter was allowed to torture him.  Margot Verger is never mentioned in the movie.  As the bodybuilding sister of Mason, she plays a key role in Lecter's eventual escape.  More importantly, she is an important device used by the author to reveal more about Mason Verger.    The ending portrayed in the movie shows another marked difference from the book.  It is the one part I liked better in the movie than the book.  While the movie insinuates Hannibal may be a homosexual, the book dispells any doubts that he is heterosexual.  In the book, Lecter and Starling run away together.  Obviously, this means Hannibal never chopped off his hand and Starling released her desire for law enforcement in the book.  The ending of the book makes it hard to believe that the Hannibal series would continue into the future.  In the book however, the reader is given insight to the prequel plots that Thomas Harris is creating for the Hannibal series.  While Hannibal's childhood seems traumatic from what we know, it will be interesting to see how Harris develops the story.    Perhaps reading about a serial killing cannibal is a guilty pleasure.  However, this book not only satisfied my palate, but it left me hungry for more.  Fans of the series simply must read the books to accompany their love of the movies.	2005-08-22
US	50104667	R2FAIX0BU535XS	0345342569	284612338	Shoeless Joe	Books	4	4	5	N	N	"If you build it, they will come."	It generally does not take much to be better than a Kevin Costner movie.  This book is the basis for the movie \\"Field of Dreams\\", and is by far the better work.    \\"Shoeless Joe\\" is a story that implies dreams can become reality.  Ray Kinsella hears a voice that tells him, \\"If you build it, they will come.\\"  As he builds the baseball field, Shoeless Joe Jackson and other members of the 1919 Chicago White Sox begin appearing to play baseball on the field.  The voice also sends him on a cross-country trip to collect J.D. Salinger and \\"Moonlight\\" Graham.  The trip also serves as a cross-categorical trip through baseball history.  As the baseball aspect of the story develops, the Kinsella farm falls into greater financial jeopardy.     Some of the conflicts I perceive include the presence of J.D. Salinger.  While he is one of my favorite writers, why in the world was he incorporated as one of the main characters in this book.  Additionally, the author gives the impression that Shoeless Joe was the leader of the 1919 White Sox.  Shoeless is actually know to have been both quite shy and illiterate.  I suppose creative license allows these traits to change in a work of fiction.  However, I saw it at as being too great of a divergence from reality.    Baseball fans will love the sense of history in this book.  But even the non-baseball fan can see this book through the eyes of Bobby Kennedy.  \\"Some men see things as they are, and say why, I dream of things that never were, and say why not.\\"	2005-08-17
US	50104667	R143HXH4M2RDFJ	0306812851	587877321	Capone: The Life and World of Al Capone	Books	4	25	32	N	N	Scarface	In a book subtitled, \\"The Life and World of Al Capone\\", one would suspect an in depth look at the famous Chicagoan.  While the book has points where it is very informative, I believe the author could have used a more involved editor in composing his book.  Having originally gone into publication in 1971, there are better books about Al Capone.    In the first hundred pages, Al Capone's name is literally mentioned only about five times.  I respect the author's motive for formatting the book this way.  He was trying to set up the world that gave rise to a gang leader like Al Capone.  However, some of the stories could have been left out.  At times, I found myself wondering if the author would ever start discussing Capone.      The author begins the story of Capone in his service to Johnny Torrio.  Eventually, this relationship develops more into a partnership than a hierarchy.  Capone was very aggressive in furthering his interests even if the price was murder.  La Cosa Nostra and organized crime in America thrived under the laws of prohibition.  The illegally produced and supplied alcohol was only produced by those willing to disobey the way.  It was a chance Capone was to take.  Additionally, Capone made his money from gambling and racketeering.      The generous side of Capone is one that is less frequently discussed.  He donated much of his wealth to the poor which is more than can be said for the contemporary crooks and gangsters of corporate America.  With this comparison in mind, it seems odd that the government finally crumbled the Capone empire with charges of tax evasion.  Capone was sentenced to eleven years, but served less than six due to good behavior and the terminal phase of syphilis.    I was disappointed to discover the end of the book.  The author followed through with the title in the beginning with an overwhelming introduction.  Unfortunately, the author chose to describe Capone's effect on the world in seven pages.  I believe the author could have said more of the world of Al Capone more in terms of his after effects.    In total, I found this book to be more than adequate.  While it is flawed and inconsistent, it is a worthwhile primer for those seeking to learn of Capone.  At times, the author goes into great detail demonstrating the work put into this project.  However, the amount of work is not always consistent with the final project.	2005-08-15
US	50104667	R2RP03BZTUNDMJ	0060103590	750283070	The ninth configuration	Books	5	2	2	N	N	From the Inside	For such a short read, William Blatty incorporated a number of plot twists in this fantastic book.  By far, this is one of the best books I have read this year. <br /> <br />The fictional Center 18 houses a collection of military officers that have experienced breakdowns.  The inmates are seemingly out of control until Colonel Hudson Kane arrives.  While employing a new therapy, he explores the question of whether the inmates are faking their illness.  In a twist, we see perhaps Hudson Kane is more in need of mental healthcare than any of the others.  Without giving much more of the plot away, Cutshaw the leader of the inmates is cured.  The cost of his healing raises some of the most intriguing and haunting questions of the book. <br /> <br />At times, the book can be laugh-out-loud funny.  While simulataneously causing deep moral reflection, this book proves to be a gem.	2005-08-11
US	50104667	RQ9C8RXHBSEYS	081120099X	877643688	New Seeds of Contemplation	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Sowing the Seeds	The writings of Thomas Merton are best read if they are sipped like a fine wine and allowed time to absorb the unique flavors on the palate.  This is not the type of book that one should necessarily read like a novel.  One is best suited to read a section or chapter at time before taking a period to ponder.  This is the type of meditation Thomas Merton would endorse.    The focus of the book is directed at practices of contemplative Christian meditation with the intent to realizing your potential in your relationship with God.  It would be a lie to suggest that this type of book is for everybody.  For those who are searching for more in their relationship with the Lord, this may be an appropriate path.  The journey highlights the importance of shedding the frivolous possessions and worries of this world that are only distractions in the big picture.  The ideas and practices of Merton in no way contradict Christian doctrine, yet some will find the thoughts radical.  With the thoughts Thomas Merton produced, his contemplation practices are proven to be an effective means of spiritual gorwth.    Merton is a gifted writer with a keen sense of metaphor.  I found this book to be a valuable resource in my spiritual life with numerous tidbits for spiritual reflection.  While it may be an appropriate step in my path toward growth, it may not suit the spiritual needs of others.  With this knowledge, you can judge if this book is right for you.	2005-08-09
US	50104667	R3MSFHQ1X0FEVY	0312981252	901224066	Bad Boy: The True Story of Kenneth Allen McDuff, the Most Notorious Serial Killer in Texas History	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Evil	Having read one of Lavergne's other books (Sniper in the Tower), I was anxious to read some of his other work.  Lavergne treats true crime with a factual and straight forward approach to storytelling.  As with his previous book, I was impressed with this one. <br /> <br />Kenneth Allen McDuff should not be a known killer.  After being convicted of murder in 1966, McDuff should have been locked away from public view forever.  Yet despite being place in death row, a flaw in the parole system allowed him to walk out of prison in 1989.  This allowed a man with a mean disposition an opportunity to kill again.  And he did kill at least three other women.  With his new lease on freedom, he did not just kill his victims.  He brutally tortured them.  The story is made more complex by a dominating mother, a drug and alcohol addiction, inept accomplices, as well as an insatiable appetite for rough sex.   <br /> <br />McDuff's murders should have ended in 1966.  This makes the demise of his victims that much more unnecessary.  Laverge proves to be a top notch true crime writer again in \\"Bad Boy\\".  I am anxious to read his other work.	2005-08-04
US	50104667	R1DW231UCG3KO2	0684841215	371916423	Something Happened	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Something Happened, ... Then Everything Changed	In the same vein as the prose written in \\"Catch-22\\", Joseph Heller proves to be a great writer in his work outside of his most known classic.  With the same sharp wit, \\"Something Happened\\" is a very entertaining read.  What is funny is often not far removed from reality.  Perhaps this is what makes Heller a writer for the feelings of the common man.<br /><br />Bob Slocum is an average man.  He has a job, a family, but often lacks a purpose.  Slocum's problem is that he fears so much and lacks confidence.  To make matters worse, his daughter hates him, his son is an even more fearful and fragile version of him, his other son is severely retarded, and he hates his wife.  Four of the first five chapters focuses on one those four characters.  Through the revelations about each member of his family, we are able to learn a little more about Bob Slocum.  For example, we learn in the second chapter about Bob's wife and that Bob has a healthy sexual appetite for women that are not his wife.  In many ways, the fear experienced by Bob Slocum are both rational and realistic.  The entertainment comes as Bob explores these fears and conquers them only to see that his family has changed with him.<br /><br />At times, the writing can be crude and off-color, but one must realize the author is attempting to give an accurate impression of an average man.  While Heller does allow the main character to become lost in his self-loathing at some points in the middle chapters, I enjoyed this book word for word.  The size of the book can be intimidating, but do not let it discourage you from reading the book.  It looks at the American family in the same way \\"Catch-22\\" looked at war.  If you enjoyed \\"Catch-22\\", you should enjoy this book.	2005-07-29
US	50104667	R24IW9RTLDX22E	0671894412	221450502	All the President's Men	Books	5	3	3	N	N	The Greatest Scandal to Hit the White House; And How it Broke	Having read numerous books and done extensive work on Watergate related research, it is surpising that I had never read, \\"All the President's Men\\" in its entirety.  With the recent revelation that Mark Felt was Deep Throat, my interest in the book was awakened.  I have read about Watergate from the historians' point of view, but no story is as exhilarating as the story of the journalists that broke the scandal. <br /> <br />The recent revelation in this story has caused many to label Deep Throat a hero or villan.  Certainly without Deep Throat, Watergate would not have been the same.  Nixon may have never been pressured to resign without Deep Throat.  In the book, Felt plainly states that he becomes the secret source for Woodward because he does not believe the FBI is doing enough to investigate the break-in.  For taking the next best alternative route, he is a hero.   <br /> <br />On the surface, the Watergate break-in only appeared to be a motley crew rallying against the democrats attempting to sabotage the democratic headquarters and McGovern's campaign.  Yet a trail grew progressively longer through the president's closest aids all the way to the president himself.  From Mitchell to Liddy and Hunt to Dean and Ehrlichman and Haldeman, the trail slowly revealed the extent of the illegal campaign activities. <br /> <br />Even more than 30 years after it happened, it is still hard to believe how far the office of the president fell.  But in more contemporary sight, perhaps the disbelief should be limited.  Americans should never forget that their president or government are not infallible.  \\"The tyranny of a principal in an oligarchy is not so dangerous to the public welfare as the apathy of a citizen in a democracy.\\" --Montesquieu, 1748	2005-07-24
US	50104667	R20L5YMAA6D2O1	0394561023	836334172	Danger: Memory! Two Plays: I Can't Remember Anything; Clara	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Memory Problems	Danger: Memory! is a collection of obscure Arthur Miller plays that show a different side of Miller.  The theme of flawed memory is the only tie that binds the two plays which have very different plots. <br /> <br />\\"I Can't Remember\\" is a rare example of Arthur Miller's humorous side.  In this play, an elderly window and her late husband's friend attempt to explore a past that alludes the woman.  With a number of great one-liners, this is a great piece of work. <br /> <br />\\"Clara\\" is a darker work about the investigation of a young woman's murder.  In the investigation, the woman's father's memory fails him.  He can not recall the name of the convict that his daughter was seeing.  His daughter's ghost haunts his memory during the interviews of investigators as he explores the past amid insinuations and tangents. <br /> <br />This is a great set for Arthur Miller fans.  Only the brevity of the plays keeps them in obscurity.	2005-07-19
US	50104667	RNTOUH9HN628K	014018743X	74022144	Cup of Gold: A Life of Sir Henry Morgan, Buccaneer, with Occasional Reference to History (Classic, 20th-Century, Penguin)	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Priceless Jewel	\\"Cup of Gold\\" is described as being the tale of Sir Henry Morgan with occasional references to history.  Being unfamiliar with pirate folklore, I am not certain what aspects of the book are fact.  I am certain that this book is divergent from Steinbeck's usual path of storytelling.  This is a play of the morals and the values of society as Steinbeck usually discusses.  However, the story is set far away from Steinbeck's familiar California backdrop. <br /> <br />When Henry Morgan leaves home to explore the Indies in search of riches, he leaves behind a loving family and his young love Elizabeth.  After several interruptions including being sold into slavery, Henry has the opportunity to reach for success.  Using money he has earned, he leases a pirate ship to begin his conquests.  Using his unorthodox methods, he expands his fleet to respectability.  However, one thing still alludes him, love.  He tries to gain love through friendship, but longs for the love of La Santa Roja.  Henry conquers the ultimate prize in Panama with the explicit goal of finding La Santa Roja.  However, Henry is devastated to find that this fiery woman is beyond his control.  Realizing his failure, he abandons the pirate life and attempts to return to a life of legitimacy.  Even through this path and his marriage to his cousin, he finds he still lacks love.  On his deathbed he realizes the love his wife has for him, but his lack of love during his life makes him feel like a failure.  In death, he realizes he never really had anything. <br /> <br />\\"Cup of Gold\\" explores the ultimate conflict that exists between love and power.  The lust for power is so insatiable that it can make one unable to be loved or to give love.  While in the story it applies to a wealthy man, it is a reality for the common man as well.  While using a pirate's life as a device to present this moral may seem to alienate some readers, I would suggest this book is on par with Steinbeck's other work.  It is a masterpiece.	2005-07-18
US	50104667	R3DWWJ79J1KZHI	0312924585	247672694	The Silence of the Lambs (Hannibal Lecter)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Read the Book!	Chances are good that you have already seen this movie.  If you are curious, the book differs from the movie in several ways.  Having just finished the book, I would suggest it is much better than the movie.  Given how much I like the movie, this is a high compliment.  This review is more based on differences between the movie and book.  It is intended as encouragement for those who enjoyed the movie to read the book.    One of the great weaknesses of the movie is the inability to demonstrate all of the conflicts that went into catching Buffalo Bill.  Between Dr. Chilton, the FBI, local police, and the Tennessee governor, there were numerous conflicts in the competition to catch the ultimate prize.  This is a realistic conflict that has prevented many serial killers from being caught earlier or at all.  But the greater piece to the puzzle missing in the movie is the complete profile of Buffalo Bill or Jame Gumb.  Without knowing his backround, you really do not know the whole story.  Also missing is the conflict in Crawford's life that acts as a distraction as he chases the serial killer.      It is difficult for a writer to create a villan which the audience enjoys.  In the book, I found Hannibal wit to be even sharper.  Many of his best jibes were omitted from the movie.  Hannibal is a complex villan which attacts the reader's attention with his enigmatic mind.  This character is the mark of Thomas Harris's skill in writing.      All things considered, I think the movie was masterfully done.  However if you only have seen the movie, you do not know the whole story of \\"Silence of the Lambs\\".	2005-07-17
US	50104667	R29J8PA61APWIV	080507774X	564190816	What's the Matter with Kansas?: How Conservatives Won the Heart of America	Books	5	18	21	N	N	The Truth About Republican America	\\"What's the Matter with Kansas?\\" would be better titled \\"What the [Heck] is the Matter with America?\\"  In his book, Thomas Frank uses Kansas as a microcosm of the current political climate.  Not only are the political trends of Kansas frightening, but the trends of the whole county are alarming. <br /> <br />When did the real issues stop mattering?  Some time in the last thirty years, momentum shifted away from important issues such as economics and fiscal responsibility.  Equal distribution of wealth gave way to a new generation of robber barons.  As democrats became labeled out-of-touch elitists, the advantage of the democratic party withered.  When the republicans decried themselves as religious, pious, and working for the common man, they became the people's party.  Republicans declared themselves martyrs of a liberal conspiracy against Christians as they accused liberals of removing nativity scenes and promoting legal gay marriage.  Any Christian should be angry about this alleged conspiracy.  But as the republicans took office, religious issues and the common man's standard of living took a back seat to rolling back business regulations that aid the wealthy.  Did the Bush tax cut really help anybody?   <br /> <br />The democrats are the other part of the problem.  They have lost touch with the working class trying to connect with business.  The problem is the party of the working class lost touch with the working class.  Instead they focused on being moderate, claiming to be Christian, and defending against republican slander.  The result is the landslide failure of John Kerry and the democrats in 2004. <br /> <br />Frank's solution is a democratic return to working class/economic issues.  The republican's lack of progress over Bush's five years speaks for itself.  Between jobs, gas prices, and standard of living, we are not better off than we were when Bush took office.  The democrats may never beat the republicans on religious issues because of the support republicans receive from the religious right.  As a Christian, I take exception to the idea that the republicans are God's chosen party.  But democrats must halt the preception that they are the party of America's misfits.  The moment a republican brings up the issue, a democrat may be forced to defend an unpopular view.  Change the topic to a genuine campaign issue.  Legalizing gay marriage or banning abortion are items a president can not directly affect.  Keep the republicans on the issues that a politician can effect.  It's the economy stupid! Don't let the cable news networks think for you!  Look at the facts.	2005-07-12
US	50104667	R3GJ610H6WAV9V	0590223569	864272469	Death Be Not Proud: A Memoir	Books	5	1	1	N	N	The Art of Dying	\\"Death Be Not Proud\\" is an unfortunate account of parents experiencing the death of their only son.  Already an accomplished writer, John Gunther writes a simple dialogue that accounts for his experiences and memories of his son.  It is only surpassed by the last chapter in which the mother accounts for her thoughts. <br /> <br />In the first section of the book, Gunther tells the chronological story of his son's initial illness, hospitalization and battle with cancer, and finally death.  Young John Gunther Jr. shows remarkable tact in facing brain cancer.  He seems like a phenomenal young man though one must bear in mind that adults tend to exaggerate the accomplishments of their own sons and daughters.  This aside, Gunther does a beautiful job memorializing his son through his recollection of the events.  It is only bettered by the final chapter in which the boy's mother reflects on the preciousness of life.   <br /> <br />The reader does not need to have death close to them to appreciate this book.  To appreciate life, one only needs to be alive.	2005-07-09
US	50104667	R24FOYND2D8M1Q	0060085495	133759287	Island (Perennial Classics)	Books	3	39	49	N	N	An Island Unto Itself	Having been mentioned in my copy of St. Thomas More's \\"Utopia\\", I was anxious to read \\"Island\\".  I can honestly say that Aldous Huxley's work peaked with \\"Brave New World\\".  I was very disappointed with \\"Ape and Essence\\".  In the same way, the plot of Island has a lot of potential which it never follows through on.<br /><br />In reality \\"Island\\" is not a novel, but a series of characters involved in a dialogue.  Huxley uses these characters to address the ills of the world as he sees them.  Among the topics addressed are spirituality, wealth/economics, and human emotions such as guilt.  Much of the time seems to be focused on spirituality and Huxley's chosen faith Buddhism.<br /><br />The thin plot shows the main character Will Farnaby washing on the shores of the ficticious island Pala.  As Will returns to health, he finds himself at the center of a conflict.  The future king or raja of the island plans to modernize the simple ways of people's lives in Pala.  Forces have attempted to prevent this but the future raja has taken the influence of neighboring ruler Colonel Dipa.  The dialogue of the book shows the competing forces and their views of the future.  In reality, there is little action until the final pages with its predictable ending.<br /><br />If I were giving Huxley a grade for this book, I would give him an A for the concept.  Unfortunately, I would give him a D for the presentation.  The book is slow, making it painful to follow at times.  This work is far inferior to his masterwork Brave New World.<br /><br />I read the book again in November 2012. I was so unimpressed with the book the first time, I actually forgot that I read it. That said, I would not change a word of my current review.	2005-07-07
US	50104667	R3EO91R9VZE56T	0300074425	94262836	Life and Terror in Stalin's Russia, 1934-1941	Books	2	13	23	N	N	Forgetting Russia	As documented in the title of the book, Joseph Stalin ruled by a system of terror and intimidation. Through these means he maintained control of the Soviet Union and continued his rule. Robert Thurston documents the terror sanctioned by the Soviet government in this concise book. <br /> <br />The first chapters document the reorganization of the police from the Stalin Era. Nikolai Ezhov, the first head, ruled with brutal disregard for human rights. The anecdotes in the book seemed to show him as having more of a concern for having somebody to prosecute than procuring justice. When Lavrenti Beria replaced Ezhov, he implemented a more compassionate form prosecuting crimes against the state. This was despite Beria's alarming personal habits. However, it would not be a stretch to suggest that either man was a terrorist for the government. Under the rule of either man, execution was common as well as banishment to Siberia. On page 99, the book tells an interesting story of a Siberian gold mine in which 30-40 survived of 500. The book continues exploring work in the industries and agricultural sector which brings memories of the \\"Grapes of Wrath\\".  <br /> <br />One of the most surprising facts in this books is the author's suggestions that many Soviets embraced the Nazi invasion as a liberation from Stalinism and religious oppression. Because of his method of rule, many Soviets knew life could be better. Attempting to get a better life in any way could be lethal to their health. <br /> <br />While the book has numerous interesting points, it possesses some fundamental flaws. The author honestly seems to believe that Stalin benevolently and accidently put millions to death. In this regard, the author is delusional or is writing a fictional account of Stalin. The author also gives little background on any important characters in the book. This would seem to be important information since the book is about the ruling party of the Soviet Union. Without background knowledge, the reader is lost. Additionally, the collection of anecdotes that support the author's statements do help the arguments at most times. At other times, the antidotes seem to go nowhere. For a superior read on the topic, I would suggest \\"Stalin\\" by Edvard Radzinsky	2005-07-01
US	50104667	RHLIHNB5Y7PFP	0451166604	824428233	Small Sacrifices: A True Story of Passion and Murder	Books	5	6	6	N	N	"Hungry Like the Wolf"	I was skeptical when I found a used copy pf this book, but I really enjoyed it.  Diane Downs proves to be as disturbed as the most notorious serial killers in Anne Rule's account of the murderous mom.  Even though this is thicker than most of Rule's books, it was hard to put down. <br /> <br />Diane Downs was a woman that brought many issues to her adult life.  She was diagnosed as having a histrionic personality disorder, an anti-social personality disorder, as well as a narcissistic personality disorder.  One of these disorders can have an averse effect of a person's life.  These flaws in addition to being molested as a child caused Diane to be starved for attention as well as having problems in her relationships with men.   <br /> <br />Diane felt trapped in her marriage and became involved in several extra-marital affairs.  Her obsession with a married man named Lew caused her to committ the ultimate crime.  Seeing her children as a hindrance to her relationship with Lew, she attempted to kill her own three children.  Even more disturbing, she shoots her children to 80's pop band Duran Duran's \\"Hungry Like the Wolf\\".  The song coincides with her motive of lust and greed perfectly. Downs was only able to kill one child, while severely injuring the other two.  She had committed a less than perfect crime. <br /> <br />After describing the events that led up to the incident, the author documents the investigation.  This includes the heartbreaking story of the eldest daughter testifying against her own murderous mother in court. <br /> <br />With plenty of swerves that often seem too outrageous for reality, this book is a keeper.  Easily, this story is as good as any horror or mystery story.	2005-06-28
US	50104667	R2LJJSY71P0YSA	0451167783	446331567	A Streetcar Named Desire	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Blanche's Tragedy	\\"A Streetcar Named Desire\\" is the first play I have read by Tennessee Williams.  The skill with which the story unfolds makes it very obvious why Williams is regarded as a great American playwright along the lines of Arthur Miller.    \\"Streetcar\\" tells the story of a woman's fall from grace after living on her charm and sexuality for most of her life.  Much in the same way \\"Death of a Salesman\\" shows the slow and painful death of a family man, \\"Streetcar\\" shows a Blanche being unable to accept that time has passed her by and a reputation of being fast has destroyed her.  When Blanche comes to visit her sister Stella and her husband, only Stanley senses something peculiar about Blanche.  It is only when Stanley begins to research into Blanche's past that he begins to see through her web of lies.  Confronted with her lies, the only thing she has left to hold on to, Blanche's sanity escapes her.      In a sad reality, women who live their lives dependent on their looks and exploiting men will eventually find that their game will eventually exhaust its momentum.  Readers who sympathize with Blanche's demise may have trouble identifying with a gruff character like Stanley.  It is difficult to identify with a man who beats his wife as a hero.  Despite his flaws, Stanley is the hero in this sad story.  Much like reality, few heroes are as perfect as superman.    \\"Streetcar\\" is an honest story that ranks high on the totem pole of American theater.  In terms of its reach, no well read American can call themselves \\"well-read\\" without \\"Streetcar\\" on their \\"to read list\\".	2005-06-21
US	50104667	RRNIQWYEEH8F3	0684813467	570390801	Joshua: A Parable for Today	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Charming	I first read a book in this series ten years ago and enjoyed it a great deal.  Now that I have had a chance to read a second book, I find myself eager to read the rest of the series.  Joshua is a charming tale of a Christ-like figure living a simple existence in the modern world.  Written in prose that are easily understood, Joseph F. Girzone has written a priceless collection in the Joshua series.    In this first book, we find Joshua in a small town called Auburn.  Working as a carpenter to pay His bills, Joshua begins with small interactions with the townspeople.  As the people get to know Joshua, He and His work attain celebrity status.  Unfortunately, Joshua's popularity also creates enemies for the carpenter.  Speaking against the strict laws and the unfeeling heart of the modern religious establishment, Joshua raises the ire of some of the local religious leaders.  Frustrated by their inability to subdue Joshua, He is sent to the Vatican City to meet with the highest members of the church only to have His message find rejection.    Some readers of this book find it to be borderline heretical and a host of other misnomers.  One must bear in mind that this is a work of fiction.  It is meant to make the reader think about the life of Jesus if He walked the same streets as us.  I believe Jesus would note the problems with organized religion if he walked the Earth today.  This message would be met with resistance by the establishment.  Much like in the book, ignoring this problem would not make it go away.  In that regard, the book is very realistic.  The book is meant to make readers think about this and other aspects of the life of Christ.  In addition to being an entertaining read, the book is successful in this regard.	2005-06-20
US	50104667	RL9V430LFDXZY	0553260588	150142267	Hiroshima	Books	5	1	1	N	N	The Bomb	Hiroshima is the factual although perhaps not graphic enough account of six survivors of the first atomic bomb blast in World War II.  Having read a number of books on the subject, I can say this is among the best. <br /> <br />Hiroshima begins with a synopsis of the events of August 6, 1945.  In a short explanation, it details what each of the survivors was doing the moment the bomb was dropped.  The remaining chapters discuss the aftereffects of the bomb.  Even the stigma of being a Hiroshima survivor limited what a person could do in life.  This does not even account for the divergent health ailments that linger after a nuclear attack.  The last chapter goes into depth about the life of each of the six survivors.  What I found most interesting is that five of the six focused much of the remainder of their lives in religion.  Having each survived many years after the bomb, these people are a testament to the power of religious faith. <br /> <br />While the book is short, it gives readers a human perspective of the effects of the atomic bomb.  The reader can not help but feel empathy for those civilians who became victims for life because of a war for which they had no personal stake.	2005-06-14
US	50104667	R10DIA3X35OIP4	0142000655	974134151	East of Eden (Oprah Book Club Series)	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Cain and Abel Parts II & III	John Steinbeck's work deserves the attention it receives.  In the masterpiece \\"East of Eden\\", the reader looks deep into the human soul to see tragedy over two generations of a family.  With a story that parallels Cain and Abel from the Bible, readers may have familiarity with the general theme.  However, the final story takes a more modern twist.    Even in his childhood, Adam Trask is simple.  He is dominated by a military minded father and an intimidating brother.  Motherless since his birth, he learns many of life's lessons the hard way.  After returning from a tour of duty in the military forced by his father, destiny literally comes to Adam's front door.  After being badly beaten by a client, Katherine crawls to his front porch for help.  Having inherited money from his father, Adam takes in Katherine and cares for her despite his brother Charles's objection.  Katherine and Adam eventually marry and move to California.  When they arrive, Katherine becomes pregnant.  After giving birth, she leaves her husband and newborns to start a brothel.  This leaves Adam alone and devestated again.      The twins are a reflection of their father and his brother.  Cal is rough around the edges much like Charles. Aron is soft much like his father.  With their mother absent physically and their father emotionally vacant, the boys are raised by their father's Asian housekeeper Lee.  As they grow, the boys are unaware of their mother's career.  Cal learns first.  When he tells Aron who has returned from college, Aron is so devestated that he joins the military to fight in World War II.  In effect, Aron loses his will to live.  When Aron is killed in action, the boys' father has a stroke.  Cal takes the burden of his brother's death and his father's stroke on himself in much the same way his brother and father accepted various burdens.  Had he not told Aron about their mother, Cal feels that Aron would have never joined the military.  As a result, the burden of guilt and sin lives in another generation.    While the book runs off track at times, the story and its human interactions are fascinating.  I remain undisappointed by any work by John Steinbeck.  Certainly, this is among his best works.	2005-06-11
US	50104667	R1E0YPZG7NQ9XP	0822204185	736742017	The Foreigner	Books	5	12	13	N	Y	Pure Genius	Having taken part in a performance of \\"The Foreigner\\" over ten years ago, I was anxious to take a trip down memory lane.  After reading the play today, I am reminded what a precise and humorous tale this is.  Despite remaining relatively obscure, it is one of my favorites.  Larry Shue's attention to detail and sharp wit make this play a laugh a minute and thought provoking.    Charlie accompanies Froggy to Georgia on military business as Charlie's wife's health declines.  Feeling his marriage is failing, Charlie becomes very asocial.  To maintain his silence, Charlie adopts the persona of a foreigner with no English speaking skills.  In the lodge he takes up residence, the lodge's keeper Betty is about to loose the property to a conspiracy of Owen and a resident of the lodge and preacher David.  As a member of the Ku Klux Klan, Owen's feelings of hatred rise when he feels Charlie mocks him. This causes Owen as well as David, whose membership in the Klan is not known, to attempt to exact revenge.  When their violent scare tactics fall apart, so does the conspiracy of David and Owen.  Additionally, the corrupt preacher David's image is soiled as his true intentions are revealed toward his fiance and her wealth.      It is a misfortune that this show is hard to find on the stage.  Were it more well known, I am sure it would achieve much deserved recognition.  If you are unable to see the show, reading it is the next best thing.	2005-06-03
US	50104667	RXHOS08RDZKYB	0399501487	502818647	Lord of the Flies	Books	4	1	3	N	N	Kids Gone Wild	When I was in eighth grade, I loved reading \\"Lord of the Flies\\".  Two college degrees and a lot of time later, I am not sure what I was thinking.  What I saw in the book then, I can not find now.  Coming from an era in which literature had a greater market, this book achieved notoriety.  Released today, I suspect this book might be a failure.<br /><br />A plane crash leaves an undetermined number of boys on an island to fend for themselves.  The idea that the children must live independent from adults is an interesting premise.  While the story itself is interesting, it is difficult to identify with any of the characters.  Ralph, the original leader of the group, is weak and a poor leader.  His lack of focus and self-loathing make him hard to empathize with.  Jack, the second leader and founder of the hunters/savages, is a megalomanical monster.  More than anything, he needs a good old fashioned beating from his father.  The most sympathetic character is Piggy, the obese and asthmatic voice of reason.  Unfortauntely, the other boys would rather mock him than listen to him.  When Piggy dies, I found myself wishing that the rest of the boys would starve to death, never being rescued.  Unfortunately, the boys are rescued.  Despite irrational fears and squabbles for power, the worst of the bunch are rescued while two other boys die cruel deaths.<br /><br />Perhaps this book is made for children to appreciate their parents.  This would explain why I liked the book as a child.  Unfortunately, the innocence of children throwing spears at each other has left me.  Now I only wonder how much therapy these poor kids needed to get past this episode in their lives.  It is still a good book, but your level of enjoyment is dependent upon your perspective.  The child in me gave it five stars, while as an adult I give it three stars.  Average: 4 stars.	2005-06-01
US	50104667	R26DF64RBD7TYW	0312227302	916887037	Joan of Arc: Her Story	Books	4	4	4	N	N	An Amazing Story	Despite having lived such a short life, much has been written about the life of Joan of Arc.  This work presents itself as the superior story of \\"Joan the Maid\\", and in many ways it is.    The actual story of Joan of Arc is only about half of the actual text.  The remainder is a thorough index of important people in Joan's life with explanations as well as another index of important objects and events in her life with explanations.  This is important because the authors often get bogged down in names and details in their storytelling. The indexes serve as a supplemental reference to the main text.  Many readers may not be concerned with the siginificance of each character, but those who are interested in these details will be pleased.    Joan of Arc lived a life of devotion to God and to her county.  With the turmoil of a war with England that engulfed France, the country seemed destined to fall until a peasant girl stepped to the front.  Her devotion to seeing a new king of France crowned saw her overcoming dubious odds.  Unfortunately she was unable to see the conflict to its end as she was captured and tried for heresy.  Her crime was not blasphemy, but dressing in men's clothes during battle.  It was only when she cried out Jesus's named during execution while keeping her waning moments of life focused on a cross that her detractors were able to see that Joan was carrying out a mission from God.    The writing of the story often moves slowly and seems hopelessly stalled by details.  While it is an interesting and informative book, it is just not a fun read.  I would suggest any person looking for a thorough story of Joan of Arc to obtain a copy of this book.	2005-05-26
US	50104667	R3HV9P3Z76VZDV	0393318346	580762283	Thirteen Days: A Memoir of the Cuban Missile Crisis	Books	4	1	2	N	N	On the Brink of Nuclear War	Thirteen Days recounts the days that the United States seemed to be on the brink of a nuclear war.  The author Robert F. Kennedy chronicled his role in the think-tank that steared the United States out of this crisis in the book.  It is a tragedy that the book was never truly completed as Kennedy intended to add a section that questioned the ethics of war and nuclear war.  It is a shame that the world was robbed of the view point of his scholarly mind. <br /> <br />In the era of the cable news networks , much of the information in this book seems thin.  There is so much Kennedy could have elaborated on in this book.  In its time, the book gave Americans their deepest look into the Kennedy White House.  Many other books have more indepth accounts of the Cuban Missle Crisis, but none have the personal touch of a Kennedy.  Learning from the disaster caused by groupthink that caused the failure of the Bay of Pigs,  President Kennedy surrounded himself with a diverse group that was willing to debate all sides of the issue.  All ideas were encouraged, but only one was selected.  Seeing multiple view points allowed them to explore all the aspects of the issue, including how the Soviets might react/feel.  Great thinkers traditionally explore topics in very open forums such as this.  There is no narrow minded partisanism here, just a quest for peace.  Though slight, this is a great account of one of the finest hours in the Kennedy administration.	2005-05-21
US	50104667	R14LIF0O1F7WSB	0451165594	511712066	The I-5 Killer, Revised Edition	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A Tale of Terror	The I-5 Killer is the shocking story of a serial killer that nearly played in the NFL for the Green Bay Packers.  It is supposed that he may have been cut for his tendancy for exposing himself which he may have exercised in Green Bay.  It was after Randall Woodfield was cut that his life began spiraling into a muderous cycle. <br /> <br />Randall Woodfield was a gifted athlete even at a young age.  Even in his youth, he was a sexual deviant with a strong propensity for exposing himself in public.  Unfortunately, his deviancy was never treated.  He was arrested once, but it was overlooked as he initiated his football career.  After the Packers cut him, he returned home and was arrested when he attempted a sexual assault on a plain clothed female officer.  After two years in prison, he was on the street with a greater thirst for sexual assault.  All of his murders were along the I-5 highway between Oregon and California which led to his nickname.  It is believed that he was responsible for twenty-two crimes ranging from rape to murder. <br /> <br />While this book was a great work of true crime, it also highlights the flaws in the criminal justice system.  Randall Woodfield was incarcerated too many times for predatory sexual crimes to be allowed future opportunities at freedom.  It is sad to realize that his murder spree could have been avoided.  At the very least, treatment for his sexual deviancies could have been attempted.	2005-05-15
US	50104667	R2VISLO0O0H660	0316769517	240702285	Raise High the Roof Beam, Carpenters and Seymour: An Introduction	Books	3	4	12	N	N	Empty	I have been pleased with all of J.D. Salinger's work until I read this book.  I found some of stories so aimless that I had difficulty believing it is Salinger. <br /> <br />The first story, which actually seems to have a point, is told on Seymour's wedding day.  Seymour does not show up for his wedding, so we are left to hear of the awkward interactions his brother endures with the in-laws-to-be.  Toward the end of this first story, Walt's seemingly unhealthy obsession grows with Seymour's poetry.  The second story, \\"Seymour: An Introduction\\", revolves around Walt's recollections of Seymour.  These recollections might be interesting if there was a point in how well Seymour shot marbles, how big his hands were, or how well he wrote poetry.  The second story was painful to read as it was so dry. <br /> <br />Salinger is a great writer with many great works.  That being said, skip reading this book.	2005-05-11
US	50104667	RNORB9T8HFQXS	0316507415	419525656	How Good Do We Have to Be?: A New Understanding of Guilt and Forgiveness	Books	4	15	17	N	N	The Impossibility of Perfection	The wisdom of Rabbi Harold Kushner transcends Judiasm.  It finds applicability to people in all wallks of faith.  In \\"How Good Do We Have to Be?\\"  he puts feelings of guilt and inadequacy into perspective.  Even if the reader does not agree with all that Kushner writes, the big picture is highly agreeable. <br /> <br />The best statement of the book is on page 180-181, \\"Life is not a trap set for us by God, so that He can condemn us for failing.  Life is not a spelling bee, where no matter how many words you have gotten right, if you make one mistake you are disqualified.  Life is more like a baseball game, where even the best team loses one-third of its games and even the worst team has its days of brilliance.  Our goal is not to go all year without ever losing a game.  Our goal is to win more games than we lose, and if we can do that consistently enough, then when the end comes, we will have won it all.\\"  God does not expect us to be perfect as this is not part of human nature.  While the guilt and shame that haunt us as part of sin are normal consequences of our sins, it is functional to know we are in error.   <br /> <br />Kushner also explores the Garden of Eden and the concept of original sin.  He suggests that original sin allows us to feel the same discomfort God feels when he sin.  This was the wisdom we earned from the tree of knowledge.  We are forced to feel the same stress when our children fail as when God sees us fail.  Yet we still love our children.  This takes us to the main point of the book.  God will love us despite our failings.	2005-05-07
US	50104667	R34RF4FAYHEYOS	0060801328	938308381	Andrew Jackson	Books	5	3	6	N	N	A Great American President	On a recent of list of great presidents in American history, Andrew Jackson was ranked near the top.  Yet there is no Andrew Jackson Day.  Most people would be hard pressed to name a single fact about \\"Old Hickory\\".  Yet if he lived in the age of the cable news network, he may have been the most scandalous president ever.  In this short but very well written biography, Robert Remini does a comendable job documenting the life of General Andrew Jackson.<br /><br />Jackson was raised in far from ideal conditions.  When his parents died when he was young, he lived with several different relatives at varying times.  After growing up in the Carolinas, he moved west to Tennesse where opportunity was available.  In Tennesse, he became a very accomplished attorney which allowed him to accumulate wealth.  It was in Tennesse that he met his wife Rachel who was in a failing marriage.  For a time, Jackson actually lived under the same roof as Rachel and her then husband.  When Rachel's first marriage became irreconcilable, she immediately married Jackson.  Unfortunately, it was not until three years later that Rachel's first husband officially filed the divorce papers.  This forced Andrew and Rachel to marry again to make the union legal.<br /><br />Jackson's early political career was not remarkable.  He had less than fulfilling stints in the House and Senate before he achieved real glory in the military.  Jackson is most noted for his conquests in the War of 1812 and battles with American Indians.  Riding the wave of his military glory, he was elected president.  In doing this he also helped to found the Democratic party.  Jackson's accomplishemnts as president include his elimination of the National Bank, forcing the French to pay war reparations, and ending the spoils system that plagued the government.  He was championed as a common man's president because of this Tennesse background and military service.<br /><br />The whole life of Andrew Jackson is not disclosed in this review, but this book is an excellent source to discover his life.  Remini's writing is not bogged down in political lingo, but tells the story for those interested in reading about a great life.  While a short read, it is thorough and highly enjoyable.an excellent source to discover his life.  Remini's writing is not bogged down in political lingo, but tells the story for those interested in reading about a great life.  While a short read, it is thorough and highly enjoyable.	2005-05-02
US	50104667	R3KRHPUC12WWYL	0140187537	999720718	The Winter of Our Discontent (Classic, 20th-Century, Penguin)	Books	4	5	7	N	N	Tragedy	Having read many of Steinbeck's books and thoroughly enjoying them, I have been looking forward to reading \\"The Winter of Our Discontent\\".  The initial tone Steinbeck sets in the book is odd.  The main character possesses none of the typical characteristics which mark a Steinbeck main character.  Ethan Hawley is hard to like at times because of the strange things he says and does.  But in reality, Ethan represents every man.  Often not likable, but real.<br /><br />Steinbeck paints vivid characters in this story as he does in his other works.  Ethan Hawley finds himself working as a clerk in the store his family once owned.  Despite a heritage of wealth, his family has fallen on hard times.  A fortune teller suggests this will soon change.  When the store's current owner is deported, Ethan regains in possession of the store.  The owner gave the store to Ethan at a cheap price because he is an honest man.  Despite an apparent influx of wealth on the horizon, Ethan's other problems linger.  His daughter merely wants him to be around.  His son's fortune of winning an essay contest evaporates when he was found to have plagiarized.  Danny, who is like a brother to him, may not have been rehabilitated from his alcoholism.  The fortune teller lusts for him. The whole town seems to have fallen into corruption.  His wife seems to be the last remaining sane person left.<br /><br />As one would expect from Steinbeck, this book does not have a happy ending.  The end is quite depressing, much like reality can be.  Steinbeck has a gift for painting reality.  While far from his masterwork, this story holds its ground.	2005-04-29
US	50104667	RO7KYMTEDLQII	0140481354	406245049	A View from the Bridge (Penguin Plays)	Books	5	11	13	N	N	An Intense Question of the Bonds of Family	Arthur Miller often allows the reader to have difficulty identifying with a character, while empathizing with several characters.  This is the case in \\"A View from a Bridge.\\"  When the story ends in tragedy, it is no surprise that the reader is made to question some aspect of American society. <br /> <br />In this play, Eddie inherits the duty of raising his niece since the death of his sister.  When cousins who are illegal immigrants come to stay with the family, it is a challenge to Eddie's role as father figure.  The character and integrity of Rodolpho the younger immigrant is called in to question as he begins a relationship with Eddie's niece Catherine.  Is he only marrying her to obtain American citizenship?  Is he too much of a free spirit with his singing and dress-making skills?  In Eddie's eyes, he certainly not the proper suiter he expected for Catherine.  With a wedding on the horizon, Eddie takes his only real option to prevent the marriage.  He calls immigration.  The final confrontation between Rodolpho and Eddie ends in tragedy, but the character flaws in both men make it difficult to sympathize with either.   <br /> <br />The story raises questions of the bonds of family as well as the changing conditions of immigration into America.  The fact that the play makes the reader think about social conditions is a reflecion of the quality of the play.  It is from the high standard readers hold an Arthur Miller play to.	2005-04-24
US	50104667	R1RW61LMUSKNYX	0553277472	340684550	Zen and the Art of Motorcycle Maintenance: An Inquiry into Values	Books	2	10	21	N	N	Quality?	I read through some of the other reviews of this book, and found myself hard pressed to find out what the book was actually about.  Rather than discussing the plot, other reviewers like to talk about the tingly feeling this book gives them.  The reason why the other reviewers do not discuss the plot is because it is paper thin, despite the 400 page thickness of the book.  After reading the book, I am hard pressed to explain what it is about.    I realize this book is intended to be a philosophical exploration of the modern world, but I just can not see it.  The main character uses his motorcycle as his metaphor for life.  Just as things go wrong in life, motorcycles malfunction.  Each person has a unique approach to fixing the problem.  The main character's problem is his strained relationship with his son.  Together, they travel cross country via motorcycle, enduring the quirks in each other's personality and enjoying some beautiful scenery.  This story is about 30% of the book.  In the rest of the book, the main character explores fantasy/his alter ego while discussing philosophy and all of the great philosohers.  If you did not enjoy reading this type of literature in your college philosophy class, reading these passages will feel like a trip to the dentist.    While the coming of age story and father and son bonding stories are readable, I would hardly call this book \\"one of the most profound best sellers of our time\\".  One man's navel gazing is a waste of another's time.	2005-04-22
US	50104667	R33IEKNTG06TZG	0743256328	894548099	St. Patrick of Ireland: A Biography	Books	4	4	9	N	N	The Truth about St. Patrick	In regard to the life of St. Patrick, there are a lot of misconceptions.  It is a myth that St. Patrick drove the snakes out of Ireland.  Even if this were true, it would not necessarily qualify him as a saint.  Myths such as this were written only to further St. Patrick's legacy.  St. Patrick is recognized as having brought Christianity to Ireland with dedication that could only have come from God.  In his book, Philip Freeman, tells what we know to be the truth about the saint's life based on his personal letters. <br /> <br />Few people remember that Patrick was actually a British nobleman.  At sixteen years of age, he was kidnapped from his homeland to be taken to Ireland in slavery.  He spent six years in slavery before the voice of God told him how to escape.  Escaping as worker on a cargo ship despite insurmountable odds, St. Patrick is able to return to his homeland.  When he returns home, God informs him in a dream that he must return to Ireland to spread the Good News of the Lord.  This was a job that few Christians wanted as Ireland was run by savage pagans.  St. Patrick followed God's call and studied to become a deacon, then priest, before becoming the bishop of Ireland.  His work is phenomenal because he reached so many people, most by preaching to individuals.  While his education was more limited than many clergymen of his time, the simple truths he taught built a great nation of Christianity.   <br /> <br />In the book, Freeman gives the best possible account of St. Patrick's life as the sparse records of the past will allow.  Unlike other biographers, he does not embellish the life of this saint.  Freeman's voice seems very removed from the subject as he writes giving the book a very impersonal feeling.  I also object to the redundancy in Freeman's writing as he often repeats himself and goes for pages only writing about Patrick's era not St. Patrick himself.  While I do not fault him for the limited amount of imformation on the saint's life, straying from the subject of St. Patrick's life for long periods of the book is inexcusable.  That being said, the book is accurate and a easy read.	2005-04-18
US	50104667	R12ERBE9W96E9Z	0380701197	778663532	No More Vietnams	Books	3	4	19	N	N	Ackowledgement of Defeat?	While a having a great deal of potential, this book begins to loose credibility in the initial pages.  When writing this book in 1985, Nixon refused to acknowledge African-Americans were over-represented in Vietnam.  Today, this fact is a given.  By definition, Vietnam was a civil war.  The Domino Theory never fell like it was supposed to.  With this knowledge skewed in the first pages, much of the information in this book should be taken with a grain of salt.<br /><br />The war protestors are the dominant image that comes to mind when one thinks of the Vietnam era.  After essentially calling doves \\"communists\\" (p. 16), Nixon wavers as to the effects of the protestors.  It is agreeable to say that they poisoned the nation's foreign policy and diplomacy attempts, but Nixon is reluctant to suggest that the protestors had a direct effect on the withdrawal.  In his drive to present himself in a positive light, I believe he loses touch with reality in these discussions.  This bias takes away from his excellence in discussing his insight to the war.<br /><br />Nixon is highly critical of the Vietnam decisions made by Kennedy and Johnson.  Nixon suggests LBJ failed to win the war because he failed to gain public support for the cause (p. 79).  In this instance, he suggests the media poisoned the public's minds.  Nixon never was a fan of the press.  He suggests victory was made impossible when LBJ called for the 1968 bombing halt which exposed our poker face and willingness to end the war.  We showed North Vietnam our strongest desire was to end the war which meant they only had to outlast us rather than defeating us.  In reality, this logic is hard to argue.  The only disagreement one could have with this is that there was so much about the war that was poorly planned.  LBJ's mistake started a Domino Effect of another kind.<br /><br />In the book, Nixon looses sight of something much bigger.  Vietnam is not about the Nixon defination of morality and moral obligation.  Manyrevolutions in African far outweigh the human rights violations that were occurring in Vietnam during this era.  Yet the United States never intervened in an African crisis until the 1990's.  Ask the soldiers who fought in Vietnam what the battle was about.  Ask the mentally unhealthy and permanently disabled veterans if their sacrifice was worth it.  As a fan of Nixon, I expected a more humble explanation of Vietnam, yet I should have known better.  Communism is such a flawed system that it fell apart without a war.  It is not the wave of the future, the wave is \\"good-bye\\".  Based on this present day knowledge, it is easy to realize that the Vietnam war was a mistake.  However, the insights provided by Nixon in this book still make it an interesting read.	2005-04-15
US	50104667	RBHUUGM0KH3W	0440206154	247672694	Red Dragon	Books	5	0	1	N	N	The Beginning of Hannibal Lecter's Legacy of Evil	I have been a long time fan of the Hannibal series having seen each of the movies several times including Manhunter.  This is the first book from the series I have read I was not disappointed.  As is usually the case, the movie omitted many things included in the book.  These omissions take away from the plot which makes the book better than the movie.  The end of the book is entirely different which is the one thing I think the movie improved. <br /> <br />Much of the focus of this story is away from Hannibal.  Will Graham, the man who caught Hannibal, is reluctantly called out of retirement.  A serial killer known as the \\"Tooth Fairy\\" has killed two families and will kill again soon if his pattern stays consistent.  Graham, with his gift for finding killers, seeks the help of Hannibal in finding the Tooth Fairy.  Hannibal betrays Graham through a personal ad in a gossip paper called the Tattler.  Hannibal published Graham's address in a secret code.  Graham decided to exploit the Tattler for his own use by making inflamatory remarks about the Tooth Fairy.  This causes the killer to kidnap, torture, and murder the Tattler's writer to send a message that he was not the Tooth Fairy but the Red Dragon.  A short while later Graham is able to discover the common link between the victims, which leads him almost immediately to the Red Dragon.  In the movie, I do not believe the painting's control over the killer is demonstrated as clearly as in the book.  When he eats the painting, this the killer's attempt to overcome the painting and spare Reba, his visually impaired love interest.  The killer is thought to be dead when his house burns, but he lives to exact revenge on Graham.  The last few chapters differ from the movie the most, but that does not make them any less enjoyable. <br /> <br />The book is well written and fast paced.  Even knowing what was going to happen from seeing the movie, I was still on the edge of my seat.  I am greatly looking forward to reading the other books in the series.	2005-04-11
US	50104667	R1SFXSS2UA3WS9	0451146433	529688932	Two of a Kind: The Hillside Strangler (Signet)	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Deadly Duo	\\"Two of a Kind: The Hillside Stranglers\\" is a book I have been anticipating reading for quite some time.  The fact that is out of print made it somewhat difficult to acquire a copy.  As a whole, it was worth the wait.  The book is well scripted and informative on the subject of two of America's most noted killers and perhaps most famous killing duo. <br /> <br />Angelo Buono had his way with women, but his anger toward his mother and failed relationships caused something to crack inside him.  While he was violent and neglectful of women, it was not until he formed an unholy alliance with  his cousin Kenneth Bianchi that he began to kill women.  The duo killed ten women who were mostly prostitutes through the means suggested in the book's title.  However, the murder of two school girls certainly raised my ire toward them.  Although the duo was under suspicion, it was not until the pair \\"broke up\\" that the heat rose.  Bianchi killed two women on his own to satiate his lust, but was not nearly as efficient without his cousin.   <br /> <br />The one aspect of the book I disliked was that there seemed to be more focus on the detectives than the criminals.  This was a small flaw in the grand scale.  The book was well written and tough to put down.  Even knowing the results of the trial, the writing managed to keep me on the edge of my seat wondering what might happen next.  I even doubted the possibility of conviction for a moment.  Although it is often verbose and quite lengthy at times, I would recommend this work of true crime.	2005-04-08
US	50104667	R1G6AWA3BHAT2N	0553272535	88900905	Night	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Survival	\\"Night\\" is the remarkable work of Elie Wiesel that gained him notoriety as a writer and caused him to win the Noble Peace Prize in 1986.  Originally, the book had difficulty finding a pulisher as it was found to be too depressing.  Depressing as it may be, there is nothing about the Holocaust that is not depressing.  It is reality.<br /><br />In \\"Night\\", Wiesel recalls the numerous locations that he endured as a Jew in World War II Europe.  After being forced from his home to the ghetto, he was transferred to several different concentration camps.  It was at the first camp that he saw his mother and sister for the last time.  However, he was able to stay with his father through most of his relocation.  His father only passed away near the end of the war, just a short period before the Jews were liberated.<br /><br />What strikes me about \\"Night\\" is the stark, cold reality presented by Wiesel.  I could almost feel that cold with Wiesel as he shivers through the cold night.  The physical and mental pain he felt was authentic, though he grew calloused as time passed.  The emotions expressed by Wiesel are also very authentic.  Even to this day, he still feels abandoned by God.  How could an all powerful God allow this to happen to his people?  While it is difficult for me to empathize with his anger toward God, I can certainly understand his rationale.	2005-04-03
US	50104667	R22CXUC2YBIZQ5	0829409556	808205578	The Gift of Peace: Personal Reflections	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A Channel of Peace	\\"It is precisely in letting go, in entering into complete union with the Lord, in letting him take over, that we discover our true selves.\\" p. 48.    This is the union that Cardinal Joseph Bernardin spoke of in \\"The Gift of Peace\\".  The frivilous matters of this world mean little when they are placed in the proper perspective.  Bernardin's tumultuous final three years of life led him through false accusations of misconduct and cancer.  He invites to follow his journey in the book as he puts his life in the proper perspective and prepares for his eternal reward.      Just as Jesus suffered and died to be reborn to greater things, we do the same.  Death is a passage to a greater life.  As one becomes ready to die, they begin the process of \\"putting their life in order.\\"  There is also the matter of putting the soul in order which is acknowledged less frequently.  Bernardin advises readers to pray now as it is often difficult to find the strength or focus during sickness.  Additionally, by praying now we are more prepared to release the worries of this world and trust our fate to God.  Worrying about what is out of our control is among the most frivilous wastes of energy during illness.  In the book, Bernardin readily admits that even he was unsure if he was praying well at times.  The truth is that your prayer life will tell you when it is adequate.    One need not being dying to appreciate Bernardin's wisdom.  We all have our daily sufferings or cross to bear.  Bernardin's wisdom provides strength for the journey as we embrace death as a friend and passage to eternal peace.  Even our sufferings our only a passage to greater things.  Bernardin has written a masterfully written, spiritually uplifting book that only hints of the peace in the next life.	2005-04-01
US	50104667	R2P6UD4S7ED38J	0425162052	209881784	The Confession of O. J. Simpson	Books	5	5	10	N	N	Guilty as Charged	I must admit that I had mixed emotions about this book as it seemed exploitive of a serious crime in nature.  Based on the positive reviews of other readers, I decided to give the book a chance.  I was glad that I did because I could not put the book down. <br /> <br />The premise of the book is based on O.J.'s willing acceptance of Fred Goldman's offer to return the civil settlement for a confession.  In theory, the constitution would prevent O.J.  from being tried again under the double jeopardy statute.  On course, this statute is rarely tested with an actual confession.  The main character Sam Roosevelt has O.J. walk into his life to make the agreement with Goldman.  While the book is slow to get to the actual confession, it is a quick read.  While the twist at the end of the book took away from the overall story, I thought the story was well presented. <br /> <br />I am particularly fond of the pop cultural references scattered throughout the book in the form of Saturday Night Live references and O.J. seeing Courtney Love and thinking she is hot.  I also liked the touch of O.J. doing coke in the bathroom before his confession.  The author makes O.J. out to be a vulnerable character whose jealousy and thirst for attention caused him to murder his former wife.  I think this matches the public concensus well. <br /> <br />This book made me want to go back and review the facts of the actual case to test the plausibility of the story.  When reading this book, one must keep in mind that it is fiction and the confession is hardly accurate.    But you have to wonder how close to reality it might be?	2005-03-31
US	50104667	R2RHL6N8TKM5DK	0140186409	999720718	The Grapes of Wrath (20th Century Classics)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	An American Classic	Most of the review accurately recap the plot of this masterpiece, so I will avoid doing that in my review.  I have read most of Steinbeck's work and I am most impressed by the vivid skills with which he colors reality.  Steinbeck's books specialize in early 20th California.  This is the centerpiece of that collection.<br /><br />It is true that this book can be both dry and depressing at times.  In reality, life also fits that description.  There is not always a happy ending.  This is one of the great qualities of Steinbeck, he does not feel the need for a happy ending in his work.  When the dustbowl era of the 1930's dried most of America's crops in the center of the country, many people were forced to move.  California was the promised land for some.  For the majority, life in California was a nightmare of discrimination and starving through poor working conditions.  People suffered and died.  Life was harsh, and \\"The Grapes of Wrath\\" is a perfectly painted picture of that reality.<br /><br />While the movie version of this book starring Henry Fonda is well done, certain things are omitted.  The controversial ending of the book is too much for the silver screen.  The story of Tom Joad and the rest of the Joad family is enjoyable read.  The fighting spirit and sense of justice in the tragic hero Tom Joad is still very real in the world today.  If only there were more Tom Joad's in the world.	2005-03-30
US	50104667	RMII66DLJFQTN	0670865419	244375106	Homely Girl: And Other Stories	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Life	As a tremendous fan of Arthur Miller, I have made it a goal to read everything he has published.  That being said, I can put this collection of short stories in perspective in relation to his other work.  I would suggest this collection of short stories is plain and unspectacular compared to anything else of Miller's I have read. <br /> <br />Each of the stories lack much in the way of plot, but they are intended to a be a sample of life.  The first story, \\"Homely Girl, A Life\\" is about a less than pretty girl's struggle to find her place in the world.  As if often the case in Miller's work, the woman lead is a flawed and sexaully promiscuous character.  Her conflict seems unresolved except for her gaining acceptance for her appearance from some men.  The second story, \\"Fame\\" is arguably the best.  It is a brief and perhaps somewhat autobiographical story of a writer coming to grips with his celebrity status.  Miller portrays the public is a negative light in this story.  The last story, \\"Fitter's Night\\" is the one I enjoyed least.  The story describes the life of a ship worker who can see himself as a hero only when he realizes the flaws in the members of his community.  Much of the story is focused on a crisis at the ship yard in which a ship needs major repairs.  Not being familiar with the lingo of the ship yard, I found these parts hard to read.  Because Miller is a former ship worker, he has much more expertise in ship repair than his readers. <br /> <br />I greatly enjoy Miller's work, but this is not up to par with some of his other writing.  If you can afford not own every Arthur Miller work, this might be the one to skip.	2005-03-25
US	50104667	R1AP7BIT90FM5P	0140250948	236604486	In the Lake of the Woods	Books	5	3	7	N	N	How to Completely Disappear and Never Be Found	There are a number of things I loved about this novel.  I liked the format of the book with alternating chapters of story, evidence, and hypothesis.  I also enjoy a book that does not give a clear ending, but leaves it to the reader to fill in the blanks.  In \\"In the Lake of the Woods\\", \\"O'Brien revisits the familiar theme of Vietnam using it as a metaphor for politics.  Both of these themes took an evident toll on the lives on the main character, John Wade and his wife.    When the wife of Minnesota Senatorial race looser John Wade disappears, the world turned their attention toward the former candidate.  Tortured by his memories of Vietnam, it seems possible that Wade disposed of his wife.  The evidence presented throughout the book adds to that suggestion.  In reality, there is so much more to the picture.  Unlike the searchers, Wade holds a keen sense that his wife is alive and well among the lakes. When Wade himself disappears at the end of the book, we are left to wonder whether he found his wife or suffered a misfortunate event as was suspected of his wife.    O'Brien's storytelling is impressive throughout this book as he walks the line of evidence for and against Wade causing his wife's disappearance.  It is a compelling read for anybody who has dreamed of running away and starting over.	2005-03-24
US	50104667	R2ZLMCMU2TATSO	0892830719	94706762	St. Francis of Assisi: A Biography	Books	4	9	10	N	N	A Shining Example	Because the story of the life of St. Francis of Assisi is nearly 800 years old, it is difficult to have a completely accurate story.  While the omissions are objectionable to some reviewers, I believe the bulk of St. Francis's story is recorded in this biography.<br /><br />The early chapters of the book nearly made me lose interest in the book.  While the content of the St. Francis's early life is slight, the presentation makes it difficult to read.  The author chose to cut and paste from other sources which gives the feel of reading an owner's manual to a blender.  It has a very impersonal touch.  Shortly after the conversion of St. Francis, the story picks up.  While the content is reasonably strong, the author continues to cut and paste from other sources with little transition.  To make matters worse, the author has problems with pronoun placement and agreement because of his pasting.<br /><br />In reality, nobody reads this book for a grammar lesson.  The content of the story gives a strong model for Christian life.  St. Francis adopted a life of poverty and founded the Franciscan order which is still strong today.  In spreading the Good News, he endured persecution from Muslims and others who thought he was a heretic.  St. Francis received little appreciation during his time.  The relationship he developed with God caused him to develop the stigmata and become one of the most noted Christian saints.  His story is still a shining example to all Christians.	2005-03-20
US	50104667	R17PI9CLNZMDOP	0679767207	408762239	So Long, See You Tomorrow	Books	3	14	35	N	N	Slight and Plain	\\"So Long, See You Tomorrow\\" is a book that promises an interesting concept but does not deliver.  It is crafted like a mystery, but the mystery is never really solved.  While the story of the painful childhood and divorced parents is certain to draw empathy from the reader, the story leaves something to be desired.<br /><br />The narrator tells the story of his awkward relationship with his childhood friend Cletus, who disappears when his father committs an apparent murder.  The narrator continues the story recounting the events that preceded the murder and his chance though brief reunion with Cletus.  I spent much of the book waiting for something to happen.  Why did Cletus's mother move him away to Chicago?  Did Cletus's father really kill Lloyd Wilson before taking his own life?  These questions are left to the reader's judgement.<br /><br />While the concept of this novel has great potential, it never follows through.  There were no hooks or curves in the story to make it interesting.  It has all marking of a story set in Steinbeck's world, yet it is as plain as a rice cake.	2005-03-15
US	50104667	R25C6XRUIR3O49	0822316587	463022686	Children of the Atomic Bomb: An American Physician&rsquo;s Memoir of Nagasaki, Hiroshima, and the Marshall Islands (Asia-Pacific: Culture, Politics, and Society)	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Fallout	\\"Children of the Atomic Bomb\\" is a disturbing look into the after effects of the atomic bombs dropped on Nagasaki and Hiroshima during World War II.  In reference to the fallout of radiation, the Marshall Islands incident is also discussed.  The author's primary emphasis is placed on the bomb's effects on children, including those still in the womb and those not yet conceived.   <br /> <br />There is a great deal of valuable information in this book, though I must admit I found the explanations too short at times.  Dr. Yamazaki is an American of Asian descent, who served his country in World War II.  Because of his nationality, he endured racism depite being an American.  Ironically, even in his research in Japan he endured prejudice because he was seen as an American.  This gives an interesting twist to the story. <br /> <br />Dr. Yamazaki's focus began in studying the unborm children of the atomic bomb.  While the adults in the fallout tended to develop cancer at high rates later in life, the children had a high motality rate.  Cancer and mental retardation were among the primary defects developed in these children.  Many were also born with small heads, caused by the soft tissue of the skull solidifing too soon.  These \\"pica babies\\" or babies of the blinding flash showed an alarming vulnerablity during the eighth and fifteenth weeks of development.  Babies in this span of development showed the greatest health problems.  Searching for genetic defects is the next goal of the research, though the stigma of being a pica baby makes some reluctant to come forward for research. <br /> <br />One of the things I enjoyed about the book was that Dr. Yamazaki did not choose to argue for or against the use of the bomb.  Instead, he chose to pursue the possibility that something like this should never happen again.  In American culture, we pay little attention to the after effects of the Atomic Bomb in Japan.  Our primary focus in America in studying World War II is the fallof the Nazi regime.  This book is an eye-opening experience in the events that unfolded in Japan as the war ended.  My only complaint is that the book is often too concise.	2005-03-12
US	50104667	RXMU3XR87H2WM	0451203267	652993826	The Stranger Beside Me (Revised and Updated): 20th Anniversary	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Could Not Be Stranger	For years, I was hesitant to give this book a try based on the amount of books Ann Rule has written.  She seemed too commercial and exploitive of a true crime writer for my palate. I was pleasantly surprise at how much I enjoyed \\"The Stranger Beside Me\\".  The best part was that I only paid a quarter for the book at a used book fair.   <br /> <br />Ann Rule worked with Bundy as a volunteer on Crisis lines for a Seattle mental health clinic.  Bundy seemed to be a normal caring person as he befriended Rule, which was before his crimes started.  However, something inside of him snapped.  Stephanie, the woman that broke his heart, seemed to send him into a spiral of violence that would not end.  The cycle was only interrupted by his incarceration, before he escaped and continued to kill.  Nearly every woman he killed beared some resemblance to Stephanie.   <br /> <br />Rule shows tremedous skill in her storytelling, making the book tough to put down.  Her chronology of Bundy's life, includes his confusion toward the identity of his mother as he was born illegitimate.  The details of the crimes leaves little to be desired, as Rule does an excellent job describing the scenes without being at the crime scenes.   <br /> <br />As the main editorial review provided by Amazon.com suggests, the updated versions do not add much to the book.  So if you have an opportunity to save some money, buy an older copy.  Based on my experience, I am looking forward to reading many of Ann Rule's other book.  I would suggest true crime fans do the same.	2005-03-10
US	50104667	RR9UV17I7G5S9	0310242487	120614966	Beyond Belief	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A Living Testament	As Madeline L'Engle writes in the afterword, \\"There is a tendancy today for Chirstians to seek to condemn other Christians and to read books not looking for love and courage, but looking for ugliness and Satan.  ...  As Christians, we must look for Chirst, and for love.\\"  I think many books written about Christianity are unnecessarily judgmental.  Whether Jewish or Chirstian, the authors of the book give a brief synopsis of the life of each martyr followed by a prayer of writing during his/her life.  It is difficult not to find the book inspirational.      Included in the book are the earliest martyrs such as Stephen and Justin all the way through more modern martyrs such as Oscar Romero and Dietrich Bonhoeffer.  Because of the format of the book, it is best read page by page only reading about a few martyrs each day.  This will allow the reader to appreicate those who gave their life for Christ.	2005-03-04
US	50104667	R278NOTKEEZKOU	0786888016	703127096	The Pleasure of My Company	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	A Pleasure	\\"The Pleasure of My Company\\" is such an amusing book, it is wonder Martin has not written more fiction.  I really enjoyed reading Martin's other fiction work \\"Shopgirl.\\"  While this book lacked many of the laugh out loud funny parts of \\"Shopgirl\\" it is a more than adequate sequel in the Steve Martin fiction collection.    Daniel Pecan Cambridge is a unique character.  He has an irrational fear of curbs, he rarely leaves his apartment except to go to places he is most familiar, he must always have 1125 watts of light, and  possesses an assortment of other idiosyncrasies that develop as you read the book.  His life is thrown out of whack when he begins leaving his apartment more frequently.  While leaving his apartment, he develops two failed romances, becomes a temporary foster father, and wins an essay contest.  This is an eventful storyline for a man uncomfortable in leaving his apartment which throws his life into a humorous series of conflicts.    Martin show skill in his writing in \\"The Pleasure of My Company\\" with diatribes against such popular cultural icons as the energy drink Red Bull.  More importantly, Martin creates a charming and likable character in Daniel Pecan Cambridge.  It is a great read.	2005-03-03
US	50104667	R1AGNXWRXIM0QP	0300002386	302329004	Utopia (Selected Works of St. Thomas More Series)	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Utopia	As More writes in the last line, \\"... I readily admit that there are very many features in the Utopian commonwealth which it is easier for me to wish for in our countries than to have any hope of seeing realized.\\"  Utopia is a work of fiction, but it has genuine insight in the the fractures in the foundation of contemporary society.<br /><br />The reader need not be a Christian to appreciate this work, particularly with the wit employed by More.  In the first book, St. Thomas More chastises Raphael Hytholdaeus on his reluctance to contribute his ideas of improvement to the service of the corrupt government.  More is open in explaining why idle talents are a great injustice to society.  In the second book, More goes through each facet of society to explain how it works in the fictionous land Utopia.  Among the sections addressed are government, occupations, social relations, travel, slavery, military, and religion.  Some suggests like those given about marriage and slavery are clearly outdated, but the bulk of the book is still very relevant.<br /><br />More is observant in seeing that greed is the root of many societal problems.  While we can take action against our own greediness, remedying society as a whole is not possible on this Earth.  While Utopia sounds like a wonderful place, it is a fictitious place.	2005-02-27
US	50104667	R2RI1SAVVZ9U6O	0553213695	377046405	The Metamorphosis (Bantam Classics)	Books	5	4	7	N	N	An Enigma	The Metamorphosis is one of the strangest books I have ever read.  In its own unique way, it is clever and thought provoking.<br /><br />Much of Kafka's message seems to be open to debate.  The story shows Gregor Samsa mysteroiusly realizing one morning that he has changed into an insect overnight.  The remainder of the story has Gregor bearing the burden of self-imposed exile while being shunned by his family.  The conflict ends with Gregor's death caused by his malnourishment and isolation.<br /><br />In many ways the story is an illustration of the isolation caused by non-conformity in life.  Certainly, the theme of a family bearing the burden of a son choosing an alternative lifestyle is a plausible prospect.  But in reality, Gregor became an insignificant insect long before the day of his change.  As a salesman, he was an unimportant slave to his company.  He was as insignificant to the world as a common insect.  Only the physical change made the reality more obvious.<br /><br />I will say that the book is not for everybody.  I have sympathy for those who read this book for coursework as the thoughts the book produces are not conducive to casual or passive readers.  This book will make you think.	2005-02-22
US	50104667	R1SET3T688M5CO	089651451X	166612038	Miracle on Thirty-Fifth Street: Winnin' Ugly With the 1983 White Sox	Books	5	1	1	N	Y	Winning Ugly	As a life long sox fan, I thoroughly enjoyed this book. I just never enjoyed the way the 1983 season ended.  Fortunately, the book begins with playoffs, and ends on a more postive note.    The Winning Ugly Sox were a scrappy team that captured the heart of the city of Chicago as its first champions in more than 25 years.  Bob Logan's book gives a very detailed account of the season in \\"Miracle of 35th Street\\".  Because the book was published shortly after the season, questions are left with an open end.  It seemed as though the team would return to the playoffs.  The pitching staff that seemed destined to prelude a dynasty dissolved with injuries and other problems.  Several position players never reached their potential causing the Sox to plummet in the standings in the remaining years of the 80's.    The pictures included in the book are also great.  Kudos to the author for including a picture of Sox watering-hole McCuddy's.  And add an extra star to my review for the obscure name reference on page 121 of Rusty Kuntz.  No White Sox fan should be without this book, it is worth the price twenty years later.	2005-02-21
US	50104667	R3127Z0FAF4W93	0684839385	478527667	On Death and Dying	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Much to Know	Having taken a graduate course in death and dying, I have always been curious about reading the Kubler-Ross in its full context.  Most people with a minimal amount of psychology in their background are familar with the five stages of Dying, but there is so much more to the book. <br /> <br />The five stages of dying only comprise about 1/3 of the book.  The rest of the book is composed of interviews with dying patients and an exploration of the cultural phobia of death.  It is a real eye opening experience to see the lengths which people will go to avoid discussing death.  Even members of the medical profession exercise some measure of avoidance.  Their treatment of patients often involves sparse and impersonal contact with the dying patients and often times refusal to be honest.  Kubler-Ross's research caused change through her study, making it known how the dying want to be treated. <br /> <br />\\"On Death and Dying\\" was the first work to study the process of dying.  It still remains one of the landmark studies.  It is certainly appropriate preparation for a reader who are nearing death as well as the family of the dying/dead.	2005-02-19
US	50104667	R1TVGC4XCIKMWA	014048194X	443837991	The Price (Penguin Plays)	Books	5	13	17	N	N	Priorities	On the surface, the title of the play seems to be deducted from the value accessment of the main characters' late father's home.  In reality, the theme is much deeper.  Much like many of his other great works, Arthur Miller makes the reader take a disturbing look into the human mind.    While Walter was at medical school, Victor was caring for their sick father.  Despite being the smarter of the two, Victor was never able to pursue a career in science in order that he would be able to care for his father.  Victor and Water have not communicated in many years.  Only through the Walter's unexpected appearace at the assessment of his father's house do the brother's speak.  The initial conflict is centered on the low price Victor receives for the initial assessment and whether Walter should receive any of the money from the sale.  The story evolves to reveal Victor's bitterness toward his brother.  Similarly, Walter feels guilt for not contributing to his brother's education and not letting Victor know their father was not nearly as poor or sick as Victor believed.    The ultimate theme of the play is personal priorities.  Walter placed the highest priority on his career.  As a result, he had a nervous breakdown, was a poor parent, and had a failed marriage.  Victor placed the highest priority on his family.  First, he cared for his father which meant accepting a less challenging job as a police officer.  However, Victor has a successful marriage and wonderful family.      Miller's work gives readers a unique perspective on life in America.  This is certainly a great work which maintains his high writing standard.	2005-02-13
US	50104667	R3OFA76NZHWK7Q	0140187529	452467692	The Wayward Bus (Twentieth-century Classics)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	An Exercise in Social Dynamics	The Wayward Bus is a peculiar story in many ways.  Most of the plot is not resolved by the book's end.  What is most striking about the book is the realistic way Steinbeck paints the social dynamics of a bus trip and the diner scene that precedes it.  In this novel, Steinbeck shows he has a startlingly real perception of humanity. <br /> <br />The main character Juan drives the bus in the operation he runs despite his apathy.  His less than desirable wife Alice, Norma, and \\"Pimples\\" compose the remainder of the staff.  When a treacherous storm approaches, Juan grows nervous about the upcoming trip.  Pimples volunteers to go along with Juan as a vacation.  Frustrated with Alice, Norma, quits her job and boards the bus.  Also on the trip is a former exotic dancer Camille, the Pritchards, and Mr. Van Brunt.  Each of these people serves as a manipulator or is manipulated.  Camille manipulates both Pimples and Norma with her lies.  Mr. Van Brunt tortures Juan with his complaints.  Mrs. Pritchard had been lying to her husband about intense headaches and exploiting his generosity.  Perhaps Mildred Pritchard is the heroine in that she only wants to love Juan but is never a liar or manipulative.  The most telling chapter may be Chapter 15.  In this chapter, Camille is explaining to Norma how to exploit a man.  Hearing this conversation, Mrs. Pritchard thinks lowly of the two women despite exploiting her husband just the same.  The only real sense of resolution is when Juan returns to the stranded bus, which he earlier abandon, to finish the trip.  Perhaps it is being suggested that the cycle of manipulation of ongoing. <br /> <br />The Wayward Bus gives readers further insight to the talent of John Steinbeck.  I have nearly completed reading all of Steinbeck's work.  While I will admit this not one of my favorites, the skill and quality of storytelling make it an excellent read.	2005-02-12
US	50104667	R2BM6ZJMQUMAMG	0582247373	291075110	Woodrow Wilson	Books	5	13	20	N	Y	A Man Ahead of His Time	Few figures in American history have as polarizing effect on people as Thomas Woodrow Wilson.  While he accomplished a great deal during his term, his legacy is haunted by a glaring failure.  John A. Thompson takes a concise, yet surprisingly thorough look at the political career of the 28th President of the United States in the Profiles in Power Series. <br /> <br />Woodrow Wilson seemed to be an unlikely candidate to one day become president.  As the son of a presbyterian minister, he often placed his faith ahead to political feasibility.  After serving as the president of Princeton, his progressive ideals led to his election as governor of New Jersey.  His popularity led to his nomination as the democratic candidate for president in a year when the republican electorate was split between Theodore Roosevelt and William H. Taft. <br /> <br />Among his accomplishments as president were the Child Labor Act, the Federal Reserve Act, and the Federal Trade Commission Act.  Wilson is also commended for his role as a leader during World War I.  While various factions including former President Teddy Roosevelt called for American involvement in the war, Wilson exhausted every possible means for peaceful resolution.  Supporting by George Washington's farewell address statement to avoid European entanglements, Wilson pressed forward in negotiations.  Only when Germany refused to discontinue attacks on merchant ships was Wilson's hand forced into war.   <br /> <br />After the allied victory, Wilson became a key figure in establishing the peace in Europe.  Wilson was the first president to travel to Europe during his term in office.  It was during his work in Europe that he attempted to implement the League of Nations.  Wilson was humbled in the eyes of the Europeans that exhaulted him when the U.S. senate refused to ratify American membership.  In a show of partisanism that was uncharacteristic in its time, republican senators refused to accept the League of Nations as it was. <br /> <br />Wilson is one of the key figures in American history, whose only major failure was a project so ambitious that many considered it utopian.  His interests were not political but universal and international ideals.  World War II was among the problems foresaw and could have prevented.  I was certainly enlighted as to the facts of the Wilson administration through this book.  While there are certain omission such as much of Wilson's youth, the book is recommended to those seeking to expand their knowledge of Woodrow Wilson.	2005-02-09
US	50104667	R3NUA4FOLJA0BU	0486414167	736453708	The Suicide Club (Dover Thrift Editions)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	The Suicide Club	I became interested in these stories when I read in a Charlie Chaplin biography by David Robinson that Chaplin considered making a movie of the story. To be honest, I am not certain if I could picture a movie version of \\"The Suicide Club\\".  Since I could not picture the Chaplin character in any role in the book, I am glad he chose not to pursue the project. <br /> <br />\\"The Suicide Club\\" deals with the adventures of Prince Florizel and Colonel Geraldine.  While incognito, they discover a suicide club.  Each night at the club a member is randomly chosen as an executioner and another as a killer.  After the prince is nearly executed, the story goes in strange directions.  The main characters only make a brief appearance in the second story/chapter to transfer a mysterious body that turns up in a character's bed.  The dead man turns out to be Colonel Geraldine's brother.  The third chapter/story shows the prince and colonel to be exacting revenge on the president of the Suicide Club in a duel that is arranged through odd circumstances. <br /> <br />With the interesting story that introduces the book, my attention was peaked.  The Suicide Club in itself is an interesting concept.  After the suicide club is dissolved, the rest of the story tails off disappointingly.	2005-02-04
US	50104667	R3MM6ZO0UQIT2H	0312929293	80277661	Cellar of Horror:  The Story of Gary Heidnik	Books	5	29	37	N	N	In the Basement	The story of Gary Heidnik is one of the more disturbing in the whole genre of true crime.  Ken Englade does a commendable job of outlining Heidnik's spiral out of control in \\"Cellar of Horror\\".   <br /> <br />The facts show Heidnick imprisoned as many as five women at varying times to serve as a \\"baby making machines\\" for him.  All of the women were African American with a background of mental deficiency or prostitution.  The women were starved, tortured, raped, and beaten at varying times during their captivity.  Two women died in captivity.  One woman's remains were cooked, causing a tremendous odor in the neighborhood, and fed to dogs mixed in with dogfood.  One of the more interesting aspects of the capitivity shows the social dynamics that caused one of the prisoners to gain favor over the others and align herself with her captor. <br /> <br />The trial shows a judge wiping her behind with the consititution to railroad the jury into a first degree murder verdict.  Judge Abraham clearly wanted as little evidence of insanity presented as possible.  She allowed the prosecution to present evidence which the defense was forbidden to present.  This was among her many offenses.  A more clear case of not guilty by reason of insanity may not be possible.  Heidnik was given disability pay by the military and diagnosed with schizophrenia.  In addition, he was in and out of mental health institutes over twenty times between his years in the military and his arrest for murder. <br /> <br />Ken Englade tells a riveting story in \\"Cellar of Horror\\".  It is a relatively short read, but one that I had trouble putting down as I read it in two days.  Because of its thoughtfulness, it is essential true crime.	2005-02-02
US	50104667	RNQB3G7S3SYDZ	0140259104	190146444	The Nuclear Age	Books	5	3	3	N	N	O'Brien is a Gifted Storyteller	I was intrigued in reading the plot of this book as it is posted on the back cover.  I have read some of O'Brien's other work and was very impressed.  This book is among his best work.  The best comparison I could give is that it is a combination of Dr. Strangelove and Catch-22. It is both witty and intelligent commentary on the culture of war. <br /> <br />William's Cowling's greatest fear is nuclear war.  Since childhood, he has attempted to allude death in a nuclear fallout. It was during childhood that he built a shelter under the ping-pong table in his parents' basement.  The consequences of his childhood behavior are among the more amusing scenes in the book.  His fear subsides until the Vietnam protests of the 60's reawaken his phobia.  He creates a gang of protestors, who eventually go into hiding to avoid the draft with him.  Among these characters is Sarah, who is the most vivid character in the book.  She is the woman who thinks she knows what she wants, but really has no clue. <br /> <br />After the series of flashbacks, we return to the present in which William is again struck with fear.  The fear causes him dig a massive hole for a fallout shelter.  His family thinks he has gone insane.  His wife, a somewhat distant amateur poet, never speaks to him.  The main dialogue in the present is between William and his daughter.  His daughter swears like a sailor, but serves as her father's voice of rationality. <br /> <br />William's further breakdown and eventual recovery pose a number of interesting scenarios.  \\"The Nuclear Age\\" is wildly entertaining and certainly a book I will recommend to many.	2005-01-30
US	50104667	R1FIOKJGNY2HME	0825432693	219649789	Paul the Man: His Life and Work	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Founding Father of the Faith	Few people have had as much influence on the spread and growth of Christianity as Paul.  In Paul the Man, Macartney recalls the life of the man who shaped Christianity as we know it.   <br /> <br />While most of the story of Paul is recounted in Acts of the Apostles and Paul's letters, the picture of Paul's life is scattered throughout the bible.  In this book, Macartney puts Paul's life in a chronological order which makes an excellent read.  The book does tend to get a bit tedious at times when the book is only discussing Paul's travel route, but the lack of more content is forgivable when it is realized that it is difficult to uncover new information after 2000 years. I respect the fact that Macartney did not speculate or invent information to spice up some of the more bland points in the book. <br /> <br />While we are unable to determine Paul's waning years with great certainty, I found the book to be otherwise thorough.  I would recommend the book to the those wanting to learn about Paul and the true path of growth of Christianity.	2005-01-26
US	50104667	R785ZVC761RD2	0061056928	450739532	Lords and Ladies	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Witch Queen and the Dolt Prince	This is my first Terry Pratchett novel.  I must admit that I was amused by the bizarre world he has created.  While this is typically not the genre I read most, I would enjoy reading some of his other work after this one. <br /> <br />As I long suspected them to be evil, this book is centered on the evil of elves.  Margat, one of the three witches, is about to marry the somewhat doltish prince.  Before the wedding can occur, Discworld is overrun by evil elves.  A large cast of characters battles the vertically challenged foes to rid the world of this evil menace and rescue the prince.  One of the criticisms I would give the book, is that there and too many characters with to vague of descriptions to their characters.  Because many of the characters recurr throughout Pratchett's work, I suspect I would not have this problem if I had some of the previous books.  The menace of the evil elves is eliminate through a collection of remedies hinted throughout the book.  This is not to say the plot if obvious or simplistic. <br /> <br />I enjoyed Pratchett's humor, particularly the references to hangovers.  While I can not see myself reading all of his books, I would certainly read another.  After all, there is nothing wrong with a book in which elves are slaughter.  Take that J.R.R. Tolkein!	2005-01-21
US	50104667	R1HMC39ZL9JWBL	1557488118	963630731	The Screwtape Letters	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Temptors	The Screwtape Letters are a unique perspective on Christianity in that the faith is seen through the eyes of those who have given their soul to Satan.  It is interesting to think of the faith from the perspective of those trying to undermind it.   <br /> <br />Uncle Screwtape mentors Wormword, through a series of letters, in Wormword's attempt to make his \\"patient\\" fall away from the faith.  Through Screwtape's letters, we see a broad range of topics discussed including coming to faith, life in the faith community, love and sex, and other ideas on life.  These topics make interesting reading when discussed from the perspective of how to fail in your faith. <br /> <br />The Screwtape Letters at times are a tedious read as nothing really happens in the story.  The good thing is that it is a short read.  It never hurts to think a little more about your faith.	2005-01-16
US	50104667	R2K9857H18ZJX7	1572435690	356949259	Center Field on Fire: An Umpire's Life with Pine tar Bats, Spitballs, and Corked Personalities	Books	3	5	8	N	N	Should Have Been a Lot Better	I had so much hope for this book.  There are so many problems with this book, I can not possibly recommend it.  It is riddled with errors and omissions.  How can a publishing company produce something so flawed.  There is a reason this book has a low review score, it is bad. <br /> <br />I do not know where to start with the inaccuracies in this book.  Phillips says Reggie Jackson's last game was in Boston, when I distinctly remember it being in Chicago.  If Phillips thinks he is the greatest clutch hitter he ever saw, you would think he would remember seeing that.  He only devoted four pages to \\"Disco Demolition Night\\".  I know he could have devoted a whole chapter to it.  It is just irresponsible to say \\"the stands were empty\\" and \\"center field was literally on fire\\" when neither is true about the infamous game.  It makes me wonder if umpires are blind.  Other exaggerations exist, but there is a word limit in these reviews.   <br /> <br />The good points of the book include an inside look at the life of an umpire and a number of humorous antidotes.  Although I enjoyed this part, I felt many of his stories were very self serving and told to project him in a good light.  I do not question whether Phillips is a good man for baseball, but I question his ability to write an accurate book.  That being said, I wish I never would have bought this book.	2005-01-14
US	50104667	R3GOFGOMPS3QSB	0070531811	881305311	Chaplin: His Life and Art	Books	5	16	18	N	N	Definitive Chaplin	David Robinson has written the definitive biography of Charlie Chaplin.  It is largely the basis for the movie \\"Chaplin\\" because it was authorized by the legend himself and thoroughly explores his life to a greater extent than his autobiography.  It is truly a moving and informative work.    Robinson begins his chronology of Chaplin's life in his childhood.  He was largely orphaned by his alcoholic father and was only allowed to spend time with his mother while she was mentally healthy.  It was through a failed performance of his mother than he got his first taste of acting as a child.  From this point, he would devote almost all of the rest of his 87 years to entertainment.  In his youth, he specialized in the stage productions which entertained England.  He got his first taste of America on one of these traveling tours.  On a later tour, he was offered a contract by an American film company.  Chaplin agreed to honor his stage contract before beginning his film career.    The book documents with reasonably precise details the process of each film he released in addition to one the public never saw and the final project he never started.  Through this filmography, we see the development of \\"the tramp\\" character.  With each film, the character moves closer to the final product we know.    Chaplin's personal life is well documented.  Unlike the autobiography all four wives are addressed, even the one Chaplin was not very fond of discussing.  The fact that his first two wives were young is not avoided.  However, it must be put in perspective that people did marry and have babies a lot sooner in those days.  It is only unique in Chaplin's case because the husband/father is famous and much older.  Despite his work for America during war time and a professed love for the country, the slanderous allegations of McCarthyism, also known as the 1950's witch hunt for communists, forced him to finish his life away from the country he loved.  Truly the red scare is made to be a more terrible embarrassment to America by this result.    Today's cinematic audience has little appreciation for the roots of the art form.  Charlie Chaplin was a revolutionary and founding father in the film industry.  Reading about his life is only a step in appreciating his brilliant work.	2005-01-11
US	50104667	R33WRIILC5BCP4	0671900153	807545000	Gangland: How the FBI Broke the Mob	Books	4	0	0	N	N	The Rise and Fall of John Gotti	It is difficult to get a precise view into the workings of La Cosa Nostra, but some books give readers a better idea.  \\"Gangland\\" is one of those books.  Told from the perspective of the agents who brought down John Gotti, the book is a real page-turner. <br /> <br />The begining of the book starts out slowly as the various members of the investigation team are being introduced.  But once the surveillance activities begin, the book is tough to put down.  Most people know the story, but the details provided add to the excitement.  The rise of Gotti in the Gambino family is documented as it evolves.  Gotti took the bold action of killing the Boss of Bosses to gain his Godfather status.  Organized Crime expands under Gotti, making it a more desirable target for law enforcement.  As the investigation unfolds parallel to Gotti's rise, Howard Blum tells the story with the mastery of a novelist.  I loved the way he dropped hints about William Peist without directly suggesting him to be the mole.  Most readers know Sammy \\"the Bull\\" Gravano turns \\"rat\\", but not even Gravano's book \\"Underboss\\" can give the story from this perspective. <br /> <br />Some readers will dislike the book as it omits certain elements.  Little background is written about the men of the Gambino family being investigated.  Almost no family history is documented either.  There is a bounty of other books with this information.  This book is a well plotted book of the fall of John Gotti.	2004-12-30
US	50104667	R31JAJ0YU8TCEB	0679446575	558616356	In the Hold	Books	4	1	1	N	N	On the Brink	As war destroyed Yugoslavia in the early 1990's, a young generation suffered the psychological effects.  With dark humor and realistic characters, Vladimir Arsenijevic creates the story of a developing family. <br /> <br />The expectant father and narrator of the book seems to be the only sane character.  His wife is a pregnant, clean for a little more than a year drug dealer.  Her actions are a great source of humor throughout the book.  The narrator's Hare Krishna brother in-law Lazar is a pecular story.  Although it seems unlikely that there are many Hare Krishnas in Eastern Europe, it seems preposterous that one would volunteer himself for war.  These characters, in addition to parents and junkie band members, set interactions as the main conflict develops which the narrator's preparation for fatherhood. <br /> <br />While this coming of age story is plagued with drug use, it fairs much better than a William Burroughs book.  It has humor and a plot.  The plot is too thin to carry the entire book, but it is an entertaining venture.	2004-12-25
US	50104667	R8VTY2O8I1D4N	0140481931	74439211	Incident at Vichy: A Play	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Anxiety	Incident at Vichy is set in a detention center in Vichy, France.  Nine men and a boy have been taken into custody for reasons unknown to them.  One by one, they are taken into the office for interrogation.  Some leave the office, some do not.  The dialogue that between the men grows more intense each time another man leaves the stage. <br /> <br />During the Nazi occupation, each for the men was apprehended for looking Jewish.  They bear the burden of proof for proving themselves to be gentiles.  The main twist comes when Leduc, a psychiatrist,  states that \\"each man has his Jew, ... even the Jews have their Jews to vilify and destroy.\\"  This diatribe causes the former Austrian prince Von Berg to surrender his freedom pass to Leduc, allowing him to escape certain death.  Von Berg's guilt comes from silently allowing  Jews to be cast out of Austria by his cousin Barron Kessler. <br /> <br />I find myself to be very appreciative of plays that only use one set.  While I found the ending be somewhat of a letdown by Arthur Miller standards, it is a solid work.  By combining facts with an intense storyline, a great peace of drama is created.  Although I imagine all the discussion of circumcision and male genitals leaves the play unpopular in many circles, I enjoyed it.	2004-12-23
US	50104667	R1EF7W647CEHQ1	0451191137	325409950	Anthem	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Struggle for the Self	The story of a government with absolute control over the people is captured in numerous books.  The unique twist portrayed in \\"Anthem\\" is the loss of the sense of self.  Though a very short read without a plot in the usual sense, it is a read that makes a person think. <br /> <br />\\"Equality 7-2521\\" is the main character, guilty of crimes against his brothers.  The word \\"I\\" and the sense of self are abolished, being replaced by the word we as a symbol of the collective good.  The individual is of no importance, the \\"we\\" is all that matters.  Equality 7-2521 has possessed thoughts that are unique to himself, which is a crime in this world.  These thoughts stay largely hidden until the day he discovers and underground tunnel which seems to have been a subway in an earlier era.  This leads him to further thought and the discovery of lightbulbs or capturing the power of the sky as he calls it.  Thinking the discovery and its mastery would gain him immunity for his crimes, he takes his discovery to the Council of Scholars.  The Scholars reject his invention and suggest he should receive the worst punishments possible.  Equality 7-2521 escapes with his invention into the Uncharted Forest.  He is followed by a woman he labels \\"The Golden One\\".  Together they find a cabin and discover more of the Unmentionable Times.  They vow to start a new civilization with the sense of self importance and other ideas of enlightened times.  In effect, the hero of the story seeks to the dark ages described in the story as a conclusion. <br /> <br />When I reached the end of the story, I found there was so much more I wanted to know.  Although we never learn what becomes of Equality 7-2521, I found myself wishing for a sequel to the book describing his revolution.  But perhaps this part of the story is best left to develop in my own mind as unlike most of the people described in this world created by Ayn Rand, I can think independently and have thoughts of my own.	2004-12-22
US	50104667	R3EBNSFJIV82E	0743223748	911987709	Harry and Ike: The Partnership That Remade the Postwar World	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Shaping the Post World War II World	Harry Truman and Dwight Eisenhower is the partnership that shaped the post World War II world.  Their impact is astounding.  Steve Neal does a commendable job of charting the friendship that turned sour imcoperating the background material necessary to tell the complete story.    Truman and Eisenhower both started as military man, but it became a career for Eisenhower.  Truman returned home after World War I to work in the government through a political machine eventually landing in the senate.  From the senate he filled a void of urgency, FDR's vice president in his final term.  It was somewhat expected that FDR would not finish the term so it would important for FDR to have a capable repalcement waiting.  Truman would serve little more than two months as VP before leading the country through the completion and rebuilding of World War II.    Eisenhower would never reach the battle lines of World War I, but he commanded the allied forces of Europe. Eisenhower won great public approval for his victory over the Nazis at home and abroad.  Even in 1948, there was popular sentiment that he should run for president.  Eisenhower had no desire to run for political office, instead he supervised the rebuilding of Europe.  He felt his work was of far to great importance to abandon at that time.     Eisenhower work so closely with Truman during this time, most people assumed he was a Democrat.  However, Eisenhower never declared a party.  It strained the friendship when Eisenhower ran on the Republican ticket in 1952.  It strained their friendship even more when Eisenhower shared a political platform with Senator Joe McCarthy, head of the communist witch hunt.  In addition to McCarthy's open criticism of Truman, Eisenhower's political maneuver caused Truman and Eisenhower not to speak for most of the Eisenhower's presidency.  Partisan bickering continued throughout most of Eisenhower's term.      It was only through the tragic events on November 22, 1963 that their friendship was renewed.  As both men survived through the end of the decade, their correspondence would continue.  While the book starts slow and burried in fact, the middle and end of the book finish strong.  Toward the end, I could not put the book down.	2004-12-21
US	50104667	RNLB01IAAFEZH	0140187499	247212816	The Short Reign of Pippin IV: A Fabrication	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Clever	John Steinbeck again proves to be one of the great writers of the 20th century with the political satire \\"The Short Reign of Pippin IV\\".  The synopsis on the back cover of the book accurately describes it as a \\"dazzling, effervescent satire on practically everything.\\" <br /> <br />When the political factions of France can not decide in which direction the country's leadership should go, they decide the only way to unite the country is unite them behind the mutual dislike of a king.  Enter the illegitimate son of the former king and amateur astronomer, Pippin.  The factions of the government make a reluctant king of Pippin.  As the title suggests, Pippin's reign is short.  When he realizes the factions of the government have crowned him to be a patsy, he tries to fix the system of government.  Of course, this leads to Pippin's depose.  While keenly aware of the consequences of speaking his mind, Pippin did it anyway. <br /> <br />This satire reveals a side of Steinbeck not seen in his other works.  While Steinbeck is critical of government, he never blantantly mocks a system.  Many of the surprises of this book are best discovered by the reader.  Satire is best discovered by yourself.	2004-12-15
US	50104667	R3133WQZWL9JV6	0618509283	528177434	The Plot Against America: A Novel	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Thorough and Realistic	Based upon the press received by this book, I was intrigued.  This is the first novel I have read by Philip Roth and I was very impressed.  His storytelling is thorough, which is complimented by his use of historical fact.    The Plot Against America shows America undergoing a seemingly unlikely turn of events. Charles Lindbergh, with his anti-Semitic beliefs, is elected president.  Lindbergh's association with ant-semitic causes the United States to abstain from the war in Europe.  Instead, a war is waged against the Jewish people of America.      Philip Roth is the narrator, telling the story as it affects his family.  His brother Sandy sympathizes with the Just Folks programs which begins the relocation of Jews in work programs.  His parents are very much against Lindbergh, while his cousin Alvin fights the Nazis by defecting to the Canadian army.  The cast of characters grows as the family goes through the changes in their everyday life.  The neighbor boy Seldon, while ambivilous to the events of the world, manages to become a key figure.  While Philip originally sees him as a nuisance, he is later forced to sympathize with Seldon.    The book manages to raise some disturbing possibilities.  The one disappointment I had is the reasoning behind Lindbergh's anti-Semitic movements.  It seemed to be a slight letdown, but did not take away from a great story.  Also a note of humor, one character claims to be a former teacher from Wabash college in Northwest Indiana. Wabash College, the alma mater of Wilson's Vice President Thomas Marshall Riley, is just west of Indianapolis.	2004-12-13
US	50104667	RL9XIGN7MXKG0	0786868104	110493881	Cosbyology: Essays and Observations From the Doctor of Comedy	Books	5	1	2	N	N	A Charming Collection	The true measure of a talented comdian is often said to be the ability to be funny without foul language.  Cosbyology is a series of short essays about observations of life and recollections of the past.  While not necessarily as funny as some of his other work, it is a charming collection.   <br /> <br />As usual Cosby has found stories the masses can identify with.  As a failed skier, I enjoyed the chapter, \\"Why I Don't Like Melting Snow Going Down the Crack of My Back\\".  As an educator, \\"To Mr. Sapolsky with Love\\" was a treat.  Although this story reminded me of the television show where the teacher seems to follow the kid from 1st grade through college.  My personal favorite chapters were the descriptions of going to the bathroom at night in \\"Oh, Baby' and \\"Ingrown Hair\\".  In \\"Ingrown Hair\\", Cosby gives meaning to the guilty pleasue of popping the strange growth on you find on your body which bugs the heck out of you. <br /> <br />Cosby's works continue to be observant and witty. I still have a few more of his books to read and I genuinely hope he continues to write more of his edgy and intelligent humor.	2004-12-05
US	50104667	RDDM8MCULO98Q	0151003564	168158483	Make Gentle the Life of This World: The Vision of Robert F. Kennedy	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Scratching the Surface	A biography this is not, but it does give us insight into the mind of Robert Kennedy.  His face is etched in our national conscience, making America wonder what could have been.  Through this book, we see the principles he believed. <br /> <br />This collection of quotes is taken from RFK's speechs and the private journal in which he collected quotes and ideas.  A wide spectrum of ideas is covered from political life to social ideas.  Robert Kennedy's social conscience has gone unmatched in the political arena since his life ended.   <br /> <br />One of the things I most enjoyed about this book is the candid photographs scattered throughout the book.  These images show the softer, more personable side of the man.  It is the side of the man that Americans were never allowed to see come into fruition. <br /> <br />A great quote to end this review is located on p 89.  Although it refers to education, I think it is very applicable. <br />\\"All things are at odds when God sets a thinker loose on the planet.\\"  Edith Hamilton	2004-12-03
US	50104667	R2D82QNRAGLOTB	0312985258	215844910	Through the Window: The Terrifying True Story of Cross-Country Killer Tommy Lynn Sells	Books	3	35	45	N	N	I Threw It Out the Window	Diane Fanning's \\"Into the Water\\" was the worst true crime book I have ever read.  \\"Through the Window\\", while being equally amateur, is an improvement.  Her use of similes and childish metaphors ruins her journalistic integrity.  Take this gem from page 66 describing a forced rape and attempted murder, \\"Her gullibility gleam on its (the knife) blade.\\"  Or another Fanning classic on page 33 regarding the killer's wooing of a victim, \\"Like a leaf in a whirlpool, she was drawn into this world of uncontrollable violence.\\"  Fanning does not seem to know if she is writing a romance novel or true crime.     Aside from the cliches, the storytelling is passable.  While the story is not chronological, it is effective.  Tommy Lynn Sells killed women, children, and even an infant moments from birth by slahing their throats.  In some cases he beat or shot his victims.  What makes him somewhat unique is that he lacked a consistant M.O., yet his killing spree went on for years over many different states boundaries.  The story of the thirteen year old girl with a slashed wind pipe, who survives Sells's attack, is frightening.  If not for her, Sells's crimes may still be accumulating.  What is most disturbing about the story is how the law apprehended this man so many times, yet could not keep him off of the streets.    Any points Fanning earns for content, she loses with the afterword.  It is largely a letter written by the killer Tommy Lynn Sells to praise the work of Diane Fanning (which he has never seen) and call out all those who he feels have wronged him.  It made me wonder who's side the author is on.	2004-11-30
US	50104667	R2DS93ATL607XX	0385484518	725864791	Tuesdays with Morrie: An Old Man, A Young Man and Life's Greatest Lesson	Books	5	1	3	N	N	A Final Thesis	\\"Tuesdays with Morrie\\" is more than a book about living your live and appreciating it before your time is gone.  The book should remind readers of their mentor.  The person who saw that unfinished rock you were and made you into the beautiful gem you are.  The mentor that was Yoda to Luke Skywalker.  Some of us our forunate enough to have a great person lead us in the right direction.  I did too. <br /> <br />Much of the wisdom of this book has been stated in other ways in other books, but reading it from a format that you can identify with makes it more special.  The author, Mitch Albom, lives the hectic life of a man in the 1990's.  Only when he discovers his former professor and mentor is dying does he realize how has sqandered his life.  In Mitch Albom's \\"final thesis\\", he reaccesses his priorities through his discussions with his former professor, Morrie Schwartz.  Although Morrie has ALS, his days are brighten by the love from those around him.  What most people might see as terrible, Morrie sees through optimistic eyes thus teaching his former pupil. <br /> <br />We all have been where Mitch Albom begins in this book, having the wrong priorities.  Sometimes a person has to set us straight.  In one of his final gifts, Morrie Schwartz gave his former pupil another lesson.  This time, it was a beautiful life lesson.  You too can share in the beauty.	2004-11-26
US	50104667	R28YW2QMYSKGKA	0802138535	644915571	Speed Queen	Books	3	2	6	N	N	Flat Tire	Having read O'Nan's other works including Prayer for the Dying, I was anxious to read this one. Being a fan of true crime, I was drawn to this book by the plot. The scenario is of killer giving her story moments before execution. A lot of potential exists. Unfortunately, I was unimpressed.    The main character, Majorie, is vivid portrait that brings to mind the movie \\"Natural Born Killers\\". The well drawn character is where this parallel ends. The story of \\"Speed Queen\\" goes nowhere. Majorie is a stereotypical redneck, and talks like it throughout the book. This is slightly annoying when she does not actually talk about the crimes until the last half of the book. The picture of the crimes is too predictable and almost cliche. O'Nan is too talented of a writer to recycle stories, and recycle them poorly at best. The story goes without twists or anything else to make you want to tell a friend about the book.    I am not sure what O'Nan was thinking when he wrote this book. Was it writer's block? Did the editor ruin an otherwise good story? The idea for a novel is here, but the idea does not come to fruition. Instead of a speed queen it is a flat tire.	2004-11-23
US	50104667	R13S2A2P575WS1	0672603683	68074956	On Free Choice of the Will	Books	3	13	21	N	N	Not St. Augustine's Best Work	St. Augustine's dialogue on free will is not worded for the layman.  The rhetoric becomes so involved that one has to wonder if St. Augustine knew what he was writing at times.  That being said, I will present as brief of a synopsis as possible. <br /> <br />God, being omnipotent and omnibenevolent, can not create anything bad.  Everything he creates is good.  God allows humans to have free will, which was a just and appropriate decision.  We grow to a more perfect being by performing good deeds.  It is through life's turbulence that we advance toward knowledge and peace, through which a blessed life is achieved.  Without free will, no righteous act could be performed.  Thus, without free will, the whole reason for our existence is null and void.  Of course, with free will comes consequeces.  People can develop lust and greed in their hearts, causing them to sin.  Sin is the side effect of free will, which God realizes and accepts.   <br /> <br />I personally enjoyed reading confessions much more than \\"On Free Choice of the Will\\". <br />	2004-11-18
US	50104667	R3SQ5R5LJRQ5RY	0786885688	574463302	Shopgirl: A Novella	Books	5	4	7	N	N	Witty and Thoughtful	Steve Martin is witty and poignant is his novella \\"Shopgirl\\".  In an era of casual sex and superficiality, Martin sketches an accurate portrait of life.  This not meant to omit the greatest quality of the book, it is funny.  There were several points where I found myself laughing out loud at the verbal jabs of Martin. <br /> <br />Mirabelle is searching for a lot of things, she is kind of a mess.  As dull as she is, Jeremy is Neanderthalic in comparison.  Tiring of Jeremy, Mirabelle sees Ray walk into her life purely by chance.  While Ray is wealthy, he lack the maturity to love.  Adding another dimension to Mirabelle's conflict is Lisa who uses sex as a recreational sport.  As the story continues, the characters mature and make decision based on their experiences.  The choice Mirabelle makes will surprise some readers.  Even more entertaining is the humorous fate of Lisa, who we love to hate because we know somebody like her. <br /> <br />Martin's ventures into fiction are by far better than his comedy books.  They show his tact and ability to manipulate words and scenarios in the right context.  It is a great read for those just discovering the real world outside of college and people of that general age group.  What is generally funny is not far from the truth.  \\"Shopgirl\\" does not stray far from reality while maintaining great wit.	2004-11-14
US	50104667	R3FC4816J837MT	156663010X	154743375	1968: The Election That Changed America (American Ways Series)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	An Election That Changed America	The election of 1968 is one of the most significant in American history.  While the 2000 and 2004 are the most controversial elections in our immediate hindsight, they pale in comparison to 1968. <br /> <br />Lewis Gould's argument suggests that race was the primary factor in the 1968 election.  The assassination of Martin Luther King, the race riots that proceeded the assassination, as well as the civil rights movement were on the minds of voters.  With the riots, some felt blacks received equal rights too soon.  Others felt the rights they received were the cause of the riots and increases in crime.  Yet still other voters questioned if laws that mandated such change as school desegregation was a proper solution.  From differing perspectives, race was a prominent issue.  Third party candidate George Wallace became the choice of those disenchanted with the civil rights movement. <br /> <br />Vietnam was the other \\"hot button\\" issue.  With no apparent end to the war in sight, the polls showed disapproval for Lyndon Johnson.  He never declared candidacy for reelection, and waited until March 31 to announce he would not run.  Some sighted poor health among the reasons for this choice.  Johnson's lack of action, in addition to his unwillingness to endorse Hubert Humphrey, crippled the chances of the democratic party.  While the democratics were in disarray, the republicans were united behind Richard Nixon.  With more funds and a united party, Nixon never had to reveal a platform for most issues.  Nixon's campaign was only threatened by a potential cease-fire in Vietnam brokered by Johnson which Gould alleges Nixon lobbied to prevent the South Vietnamese from accepting. <br /> <br />Gould also addresses the candidacy of Robert Kennedy.  Unfortunately, he will never know what would have happened had he not been assassinated.  The author contends that Kennedy faced nearly insurmountable odds to gain the nomination of his party, much less defeat Nixon.  Based on the confused state of the democratic party in 1968, I believe Kennedy's chances are much less clear. <br /> <br />The legacy of the 1968 election is more clear.  It marked a clear shift from democrat dominance to a republican dominated government which is still evideant today.  The strength of this book is its ability to draw out how the parties went different ways in 1968, and with few aberrations continue this trend today.  It will only be when the democratic party realizes the change in voter tendencies that the legacy of 1968 will fade.	2004-11-12
US	50104667	R1HHI7NEN0T9DU	0312966369	594839628	Death at Every Stop: The True Story of Alleged Gay Serial Killer Andrew Cunanan the Man Accused of Murdering Designer Versace (St. Martin's True Crime Library)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Not THAT Bad	All of the other reviews for this book really hammer it as the worst true crime book in the world.  But if you do the research, many of the other reviewers do not have much credibility since they have only reviewed one book.  While it has some flaws, I would suggest the book is not that bad. <br /> <br />The account of Andrew Cunanan is concise.  Even with a 260 page count, the chapters are short and have an average of three pages in between chapters.  That being said, the facts are largely accurate.  While the author does take some liberties, such suggesting Cunanan asked for a glass of water before shooting Lee Miglin, the fabrications are not sensational.   <br /> <br />Some of the things I really liked about the book were Clarkson's research into Cunanan's obsession with Tom Cruise.  Additionally, Cunanan met Lisa Kudrow and may have targeted her for the future after her rebuffs.  Before this publication, little has been documented about Cunanan meeting Gianni Versace over a year before killing him.  Also, the author documents Cunanan's stormy childhood and carosel of relationships.   <br /> <br />Certainly the book is concise but serves as a good introduction to interested readers.  In other words, I hope they will write better books about Cunanan than this, though \\"Death at Every Stop\\" is adequate.	2004-11-10
US	50104667	RD9UDNJH52GNX	0140481621	773176336	After the Fall: A Play in Two Acts (Penguin Plays)	Books	3	7	11	N	N	Miller's Catharsis	Having read most of Miller's previous work, I hold it to a high standard.  \\"After the Fall\\" shows many of the simmilarities of his other works.  Unlike the other ones, he is symbolically the main character here.  In this work, Miller writes a cathartic explanation of his life including two failed marriages, one to Marilyn Monroe.  Rather than entertaining, it comes off as rather unsettling. <br /> <br />The main character, Quentin narrates to the audience in the show.  He is viewing his past as the various people in his life appear in a sequence of events.  Through his childhood, we see hints of the origins of the problems the character faces, such as a manipulative mother.  This seems to be the justification he uses for failed relationships.  By Holga being the last character we see, it seems that he is insinuating that he should have never left his first wife.  At the same time, he clears himself of any fault in the demise of Maggie (the veiled symbol for Marilyn Monroe). <br /> <br />In reality, there was a lot going on in the play.  Perhaps it was even too busy.  But even more worrisome is Miller's use of the stage to justify or rationalize his life.  I love Miller's work. This play, which was intended to be disturbing, is disturbing in a way which Miller could have intended.  It is one play the work could have gone without.	2004-11-07
US	50104667	R2B5O9TQ2EODVZ	0385507488	148160224	Ted Williams: The Biography of an American Hero	Books	5	8	8	N	N	"Get a Good Pitch to Hit!"	Ted Williams was the greatest hitters in baseball history.  But there is so much more to him than baseball.  Leigh Montville's biography is comendable on many levels, though far from perfect.  Four and a half stars would be more adequate rating than I gave the book.  Still the book is worth the price. <br /> <br />The books starts out jumping all over the place, making the story hard to follow.  But once it begins the chronological story of his life, the book is well written.  Montville plainly writes of  the childhood neglect that influenced Williams life.  The absence of his parents is largely the reason he behaved so immaturely early in his career.  He was not used to living with rules, so the structure of professional baseball was an adjustment that caused a talented player to spend an extra year in the minors.  Ted's only focus was baseball during his youth and career.  He always picked people's brains, learning from anywhere  he could about hitting.  His dedication made people take notice.  It is also how he developed his philosophy of hitting.  Winning triple crowns and hitting .400 were among his great achievements.  He would have hit .400 more than once if batting average were figured as it is today with sacrifices and walks not hurting the average.  John Wayne was an actor, but Ted Williams lived the role.  He served his country during World War II and the Korean War.  Had Williams not sacrificed those years for his country, we would surpassed Ruth's home run record and no doubt other records as well.  Yet he is still recognized as the greatest hitter in baseball history. <br /> <br />During his career the media gave the public the impression that Williams was a bad apple.  But during his late career and in retirement, the public saw otherwise.  Williams did have a foul mouth.  His works of charity tell where his heart was.  Knowing the good human being he was, it is unfortunate to read how his final years were spend.  The way his son manipulated him is beyond shameful. <br /> <br />Despite the somber note most biographies end with, Montville had a different approach.  He ended the book with an epilogue that is a collection of humorous antidotes with Williams as the star.  It is wonderful that the book did not end on the same note as Ted's life.	2004-11-05
US	50104667	R1ICMQVQC3KSSZ	1573229164	322503556	In Our Strange Gardens (English and French Edition)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Phenomenal!	Some stories are so well written that they are one of those books that make you lie awake at night pondering.  These are the books you tell your friends that they have to read.  \\"In Our Strange Gardens\\" is one of those books.  Having family members who survived the Nazi atrocities of World War II, this book really hit home for me.  <br /> <br />Although only 80 pages long (unless you read the French translation too), the story is very thorough.  A story does not have to be long to be good!  The main character, Michel tells the story as told to him by his father's cousin, Gaston.  Michel's father, Gaston, and two other men are blamed in an act of sabotage against the Nazis.  From a historical perspective, people do not usually survive once they are accused by the Nazis.  The story of survival gives Michael's father and Gaston a new perspective on life.  It also changed the foolish light Michel saw his father in. <br /> <br />Few books attain the status of international bestseller.  There is a reason this one did.  It is that good.	2004-10-29
US	50104667	R2SMU46DNW5EWJ	1401301347	457785813	When Will Jesus Bring the Pork Chops?	Books	4	195	220	N	Y	A Little Off Target	I believe some of the reviewers of this book might be expecting too much.  \\"When Will Jesus Bring the Pork Chops?\\" is not Carlin's best book, but a lot of the material is offensive to some people and funny to most of us.  That's what Carlin does, he offends people. My biggest complaint is that he did not offend enough people.  I felt that too much of the book was devoted to euphemisms.  The fact is that these arguments presented by Carlin are more logical than funny.  By most standards, this is not a problem, unless the book is supposed to be funny. <br /> <br />I enjoyed a lot of the book.  I enjoyed the one liners in the sections titled, \\"Bits and Pieces\\".  Nobody has a better eye for observing the stupid things people do.  Whether regular people or famous people, Carlin points out the problem in a humorous way.  Usually it is a shocking or offensive result.  That is why people like George Carlin.  If you like Carlin, you will probably like the book.  It is not his best book, but it is still better than most comedian's books.	2004-10-28
US	50104667	R27Z8E741YE8B9	1569551383	468125539	Padre Pio: Man of Hope	Books	5	27	27	N	N	Absolutely Amazing!	Padre Pio is a modern day saint. With the exception of Mother Teresa, no other person in the religious life has commanded so much respect in recent times.  Rather than focusing on the controversies, Renzo Allegri focus on the man in Padre Pio: Man of Hope.  It is truly an inspiring read. <br /> <br />Padre Pio is the most recent man to bear the stigmata or wounds of Jesus Christ.  The mystery of the stigmata alone makes Padre Pio's life compelling.  Padre Pio lived the life of a monk in Italy.  Even in his youth, Padre Pio experienced visions which made his relationship with God different.  With the stigmata came the pain the that he suffered in his unique relationship with the Lord.  The pain of this burden was also a blessing.  His relationship with God allowed him to perform miracles and healings that are documented in the book for skeptics.  To witnesses and believers, this is testimony to the power of God.    <br /> <br />This is truly an amazing story.  I would hope believers and non-believers alike are inspired by this book in the same way I was.  Knowing of this amazing man, I will think of him in my prayers and works.  I will hope Padre Pio would guide me in my work.	2004-10-24
US	50104667	R1O785DO8FYXGX	014017737X	779170984	The Pearl	Books	4	0	2	N	N	Tarnished Pearl	It surprises me to see so many negative reviews for The Pearl.  In many ways, it is a typical Steinbeck book.  The familiar vivid characters, thorough details, and moral lesson are compressed into just over 100 pages.  The nature story itself is the main detractor. <br /> <br />The general theme of the story is greed/wealth.  A large pearl promises to bring wealth and security to Kino and his family.  Unfortunately, the pearl only creates havoc in the life of Kino's family.  With his home burned, after nearly had the pearl stolen, and after being assaulted, the family to flees the vilage with the pearl.  After the family could run no longer, the pearl became a potential source of wealth that never came to fruition. <br /> <br />Perhaps the fact that the story is rather cliche that makes it so unpopular.  In some ways, the story is hard to visualize.  For example, how did the trackers blow the head off of Kino's baby when it was dark, the baby was on a mountain, and the tracker thought he was shooting at a coyote?  It is not that hard to see why some readers can't buy into the story.	2004-10-19
US	50104667	R2EX8845P90F3B	0060738839	76155014	Winning the NFL Way: Leadership Lessons From Football's Top Head Coaches	Books	4	3	7	N	N	Painfully Redundant, But Still Worth Reading	Those interested in football will find this book to be an enlightening book on leadership.  All of the rules and points of quality leadership are presented in football terms.  In effect, a head football coach is no different than any other type of business leader.  The problems lies in the poor format of the book.  <br /> <br />I enjoyed the story of Bob LaMonte.  His unlikely rise from high school teacher to sports agent is nothing short of remarkable.  His teaching career led him to acquaint himself with the high school's football coach  Mike Holmgren.  The reader can tell this is an important event in LaMonte's life since he literally retells it in each chapter.  Many of Holmgren's assistant went on to head coaching jobs, creating new clients for LaMonte.  Some like Holmgren and Gruden have done great things.  Than there is Mike Sherman, the most overrated coach in the NFL. <br /> <br />As alluded to earlier, the concept is interesting but poorly told.  So much of the information is continuously repeated that this book could have easily been under 200 pages.  These are problems editors should fix.  But as LaMonte would suggest in the book, he should take responsibility since it is his project. <br />	2004-10-16
US	50104667	RV9YFAOE5BHMI	0446363022	769155149	Angel of Darkness: The True Story of Randy Kraft and the Most HeinousMurder Spree	Books	5	7	8	N	N	A Gruesome and Haunting Story	Randy Kraft does not receive the same notoriety as some serial killers, but this is not due to a insignificant criminal career.  Kraft is believed to have killer as many as 67 people, putting him in a league with only the Green River Killer.  Dennis McDougal does a commendable job of capturing the madness of Kraft's 67 murder in \\"Angel of Darkness\\".    Randy Kraft's killing spree spanned more than a decade.  While evidence could only convict him of sixteen murders, the log of his murderous activities leaves many unanswered questions.  The author recounts the stories of as many victims as evidence allows.  Some victims remain \\"John Doe's\\", while other stories have yet to be ascertained.  While this sets limits on the evidence, it does not take away from the story.  Kraft, a confessed homosexual, began a spree killing gay men in the 1970's.  Before his streak would end, teenage boys only guilty of hitch-hiking would compose a significant number of victims.  The seemingly normal behavior Kraft displayed on most days makes his rampage more frightening.  Not even his long term boyfriend suspected his crimes.  While most people know better than to hitch-hike, the story brings the realization of the vulnerability of our loved ones to darker forces.    Dennis McDougal proves to be an accomplished storyteller in the book.  He lends the story and its victims proper respect while maintaining a interesting story.  I commend McDougal for telling the story without constant repetition of tedious facts or writing on irrelevant sidebars.  This is one of the best true crime books available.  It is a shame that it is out of print.	2004-10-13
US	50104667	R2J0SQBMHCK7ML	0880014628	160176722	Headed for the Blues: A Memoir	Books	1	0	2	N	N	Train Wreck	While the synopsis of the book seems interesting, I am not sure what the book is about.  The author uses a \\"stream of conscious\\" method of stroy telling which few authors could use successfully.  Additionally, the story is not divided into chapters, so the stream of thought seems to speed to nowhere. <br /> <br />The book is allegedly a memoir of a Czech writer who moved to Canada to start a publishing company.  The story is a reflection of his childhood and early life in communist Czechoslavakia.  The few entertaining points are concentrated in the dark humor scattered throughout the book.  The humor addresses such topics as prostitution and communism.   <br /> <br />What was it like to live in communism?  The answers to these questions are sparse and redundant.  Aside from the humor, it is hard to decipher the author's objective.  It is a memoir, but even memoir need a story that is going somewhere.	2004-10-07
US	50104667	RJOCFROTTGGWL	0553269151	813629861	Inherit the Wind	Books	5	29	32	N	N	"He that Troubleth his own house shall inherit the wind."	On a number of levels, this is a great story.  Some people see it only as a take on the Scopes trial.  The characters are fictitious, but the story is largely based on facts.  The readers that only see this as a book about the monkey trial miss the point.   <br /> <br />Those who view this book as promoting evolutionism, see Chrisitians portrayed as narrow-minded and intolerant.  This is no more of a stereotype than a Middle Easterner playing the role of a terrorist in a James Bond film.  In the Scopes Trial, the Chirstians were intolerant of evolution being taught.  Tolerant Christians, which still comprise the majority, would not exactly play the role well. <br /> <br />The point of the story is clearly laid out in the final pages of the book.  The agnostic defense attorney Henry Drummond (who represents Clarence Darrow in the actual Scopes Trial) is talking to the arrogant reporter E. K. Hornbeck.  Hornbeck assumes Drummond agrees with his view that the peopleof Hillsboro are backwards and ignorant in their Christian beliefs.  Drummond lashes out at Hornbeck, telling him the people of Hillsboro have every right to have their beliefs.  In the same way, people have a right to believe in evolution.   <br /> <br />The 1st Amendment provides freedom of religion, or freedom not to subscribe to any particular religious beliefs.  This book is a powerful statement not about evolution, but the right to think.  Whether you fall on either side of the argument for evolution or have compromised between the sides, the story is a lesson worth noting.	2004-10-05
US	50104667	R3OVZOU6CGTDEU	0684832461	608928337	Kennedy and Nixon: The Rivalry That Shaped Postwar America	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Superb!	Chris Matthews, the host of Hardball, clearly composed a masterwork in \\"Nixon & Kennedy\\".  The book is well written and manages to take a non-partisan look at the rivalry.  While the book is clearly not a complete biography of either man's life, the unique angle of the politcal rivalry between these men should be pleasing to readers of history. <br /> <br />Nixon and Kennedy could not be more different in their backgrounds.  Kennedy came from a wealthy background, while Nixon was not nearly as fortunate.  Despite their differences, they developed a mutual admiration for one another after they entered congress in 1947.  Both Nixon and Kennedy were viewed as up and comers for their respective parties, curious as to who would go farther in his career first.   <br /> <br />Their rivalry came to a tragic end when JFK was assassinated in 1963.  Yet the rivalry lived on through other member of the Kennedy family.  First, the spector of Bobby Kennedy running off of his brother's legacy frightened Nixon.  RFK's assassination would extinguish any Nixon versus RFK poltical battles before they came to fruition.  Without a Kennedy in the way, Nixon was able to win the White House.   <br /> <br />Even after the first term in office, Nixon's biggest threat was another Kennedy.  While Ted Kennedy's Presidential aspirations were evaporated by a car accident, Nixon continued to feel threatened.  These feelings of inferiority led Nixon's administration to the dirty deeds involved in Watergate.  Ironically, Ted Kennedy led the charge that ended Nixon's Presidency through his resignation. <br /> <br />Matthews goes into surprising detail on a number of topics in the book.  I found the chapters on Watergate to be more thorough than many sources.  The overall picture is a revealling look into American politics in the 1960's and 1970's.  Truly, I took great pleasure in reading this book.	2004-10-04
US	50104667	R21AVGUXC31OTJ	0679724532	275081924	The Gnostic Gospels	Books	4	20	22	N	N	Evolution of Christianity	Having enjoyed Elaine Pagels' other book, \\"Beyond Belief\\", I thought her initial book would be an interesting read.  While \\"Beyond Belief\\" focuses on the Secret Gospel of St. Thomas, \\"The Gnostic Gospels\\" has a much wider focus.  Still it proves to be an interesting read. <br /> <br />The focus of the author's discussion is the development of Christianity as we know it.  Until the Nicene Council gave focus to the faith, there was a lot of variation in beliefs.  The author contends that the unification may have prevented the faith from failing as other religions have.  The conflict between the Orthodox and Gnostics raises some interesting questions about what made one set of beliefs true over the other set.  Poltical reasons are one reason the church developed as it did.  There are other factors as well.  The Gnostic beliefs were labeled as heresy and burried away for hudreds of years.  While some are heretic, some are worth reading.  Although the arugments can be a little tedious at times, all Chirstians have a duty to know the history of their faith.	2004-09-25
US	50104667	R1JABAZJ0N0N2C	0312985266	358192314	Into the Water	Books	3	12	17	N	N	Shallow Water	Into the water is a sad and unfortunate story.  That being said, it is not the standard material for a true crime book.  Diane Fanning's writing is juvenile and lacks focus.  It is hard to believe that such a book could find a publishment. <br /> <br />Richard Marc Evonitz kidnapped, raped, and tortured three young girls.  He dumped their bodies near a river, hence the book's name.  Only when his fourth victim escaped, was he caught.  Th author does explore the life of the killer and potential causes for his spree.  While the book is just over 240 pages, much of the writing discusses incidents of kidnapping that are not found to involve Evonitz.  So why are they in the book?  Fanning did not have enough to meet the length requirement of her publisher.  The author's writing is just unprofessional at times.  Take this zinger for example, \\"Everywhere Jason went, whispers and stares clung to him like a long piece of toilet paper to the bottom of his shoe. (p. 118)\\"  This is just tactless and shows a lack of respect for the lives of the people involved. <br /> <br />While I read a lot of true crime, this not one I would recommend.  I believe this book needs to go back to the desk of the editor for some more work.  Then, the flaws in the writing will not distract so heavily from the story.  Readers might actually find the story hidden in the padding.	2004-09-22
US	50104667	R1CPFAX5QSIAYJ	0465083323	392545945	The Second Bill Of Rights: FDR's UNfinished Revolution-- And Why We Need It More Than Ever	Books	5	30	57	N	N	Social and Economic Rights	Franklin Roosevelt left this Earth with unfinished business.  In the post-war era, he sought to acknowledge the need for social and economic rights.  Although it is often referred to as the Second Bill of Rights, FDR did not intend to amend or change the Constitution. He sought to bring attention to basic human rights.  Sunstein correctly asserts that progess was being made toward FDR's goals until Nixon was elected President.  When Nixon appointed four conservative judges to the supreme court, the tide changed to rule against cases that sought greater social and economic rights. <br /> <br />Among the issues discussed in the Second Bill of Rights are a right to a job, food and clothing, health care, fair business, education, and a decent home.  Some will suggest FDR's ideas reeked of socialism.  I think such a phobia is childish.  All people depend on the government a great deal.  Something as simple as property could not exist without a government.   <br /> <br />The wonders a correctly implemented government health care system would make life so much easier and of a greater quality.  Why is the United States the richest country in the world, but also has the highest poverty rate of industrialized nations?  This does not make sense!  It is not a matter of redistributing resources as in communism.  This would destroy a free market driven by profit, when FDR was a proponent of free market.  The problem is the wealth concentrate in the rich coperations, monopolies, and other unfair business practices.  FDR thought all Americans should live at a certain standard. <br /> <br />FDR did not seek to change the system.  As Sunstein clearly points out, most modern constitutions provide the rights FDR sought in 1944.  While we have made a lot of progress toward FDR's goals, we have a long way to go.  Sunstein has written an excellent book that explains what most thinking men and women already know, America still has a long way to go in completely providing life, liberty, andfreedom.	2004-09-17
US	50104667	R28NYC7I9R9KNW	0142437336	907196342	The Crucible: A Play in Four Acts	Books	5	1	1	N	N	The Witch Trials of Salem	Arthur Miller is among the world's greatest play writers in history.  This is among his best works.  It is great not because it is largely factually accurate, but because it was a courageous statement about a Wisconsin politician causing similar hysteria about communism. <br /> <br />Vendettas and greed for land and money caused neighbors to turn on each other in Salem.  These weaknesses in society allowed a collection of teenage girls to hypnotize Salem with their lies.  In the end, most of the town ends up being accused of witchery. It was only when the town exhausted their search for potential witches that the hysteria slowed.  Recognizing the error of Salem's court, the government was forced to step forward and compensate the families of the deceased.   <br /> <br />From a literary standpoint, Miller wrote The Crucible masterfully.  Reverrend Parris is the corrupt minister who naturally draws the reader's ire.  The groupthink that causes others to follow him is one of the most dangerous elements in society.  Many of these elements are very present in today's world with a media that thinks for people.  This is truly a literary and theatrical  masterpiece.	2004-09-17
US	50104667	R10VAW3EZJBT4T	0425134768	926834331	Childhood	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Child's Play	The books written by Bill Cosby give unique and humorous insight into his chosen topic.  While Fatherhood became his best selling book, little is ever mentioned of Childhood.  While this book has the standard format of most Cosby books, it does not measure up to the standard of his other books. <br /> <br />Childhood is a brief chronology of some of Cosby's childhood adventures.  Periodically, he uses his own children as a means of comparison to demonstrate the changes in the stage of life known as childhood.  Some of the more entertaining stories that I related to included childhood crushes, finding games in most any object, and terrorizing substitute teachers.  I was particularly amused by the Spanish Fly story and the hose-ball games.  In hindsight, children of years gone by could have been amused by almost anything. <br /> <br />While the book had its moments, it never made me laugh the way some of Cosby's other books did.  I think this might be a book that only true Cosby fans would enjoy.  I believe there is good reason that this book is not as famous as some of his other books.  It is just not as good.	2004-09-13
US	50104667	R2AFOL6HIRXQ70	0060555971	505331600	I Never Had It Made: An Autobiography of Jackie Robinson	Books	4	2	3	N	N	#42	The accomplishments of Jackie Robinson epitomize courage.  Dr. Martin Luther King was once quoted as saying the he could not have done what he did , if Jackie had not done what he did.  With this set up from the greatest Civil Rights leader, I was anxious to read Robinson's autobiography.  However, I found myself a little disappointed in the book. <br /> <br />I Never Had it Made devotes only about one-third of its text to Jackie's baseball career.  While I was disappointed in this, I realize Jackie was more than a baseball player.  My greater disappointment came in the bitter tone in which much of his post-baseball career is told.  It seemed as if Jackie felt the need to apologize for any mistakes he felt that he made.  I know Jackie did not want to be remembered as being bitter so this tone surprises me.  While Jackie did make some questionable choices for example about which political candidate to support, I do not think anybody held it against him.  The most revealing chapters discuss his son, Jackie Jr.  The story behind his oldest son's life and death show what a thoughtful man Robinson was.  More than any of the other chapters, I think chapters about his family and son demonstrate the character of Jackie Robinson. <br /> <br />While I enjoyed the book, I am not certain Jackie knew what he wanted to say in this book.  A lot of the book is composed of stories of his life.  In other portions of the book, he seems to be defending himself.  Since Robinson died shortly after the publication of this book, I must wonder if it was rushed.	2004-09-11
US	50104667	R3MXPGPK949D72	0684808293	859962033	In Love With Night: The American Romance With Robert Kennedy	Books	1	10	17	N	N	The Art of Assuming	We all know the saying, when you assume you make an (butt) out of you and me. Ronald Steel wrote a book about assumptions, which is bad enough. He tries to use the legend of RFK to predict vitality as a President and a man. However, he is unable to stay focused enough to present his case until the last nine pages.     Except for the last nine pages, the book is a very concise biography of Kennedy with a derogatory slant. Steel is critical of JFK's Presidency, making the suggestion that he would have been a forgettable president had he not been assassinated first. While Bay of Pigs was a failure, I suppose the Cuban Missle Crisis was unimportant in American history. Avoiding nuclear war is not important to Mr. Steel. The book suggests the legendary status JFK was exulted to was the only reason we even know of RFK. Steel goes on to suggest that Robert Kennedy was obsessed with his brother in the year following JFK's assassination. I suspect Mr. Steel would suggest Robert should be over his brother's death in a week's time. I would like to send Mr. Steel a copy of the Kubler-Ross's Stages of Dying.    My favorite assumption by Steel is that the primary reason RFK ran for President was because he wanted to be JFK. He makes Robert out to be like an obsessive stalker. Is it possible that RFK felt he had something to give the country as President? Or maybe he had something to prove being in his brother's shadow for so long?    The last nine pages, where Steel explains his thesis, is servicable for toilet paper. What is your vendetta against RFK, Mr. Steel? Robert Kennedy may not have won the nomination of his party, but RFK's very campaign stance is proclaimed hypocritical. Having apparently not cared for African-American rights during his tenure as attorney general, it is suggested that he only campaigned on the issue to get the votes. The portrayal of good Bobby/bad Bobby split personality is simplistic and inaccurate way for some to label Bobby coming out of his brother's shadow. He could not win, he was either mourning too long or trying too hard to establish his own identity. RFK encompassed the hopes of many Americans and had ideas to change America. He never had the opportunity to prove himself. Maybe he is not worthy of the legendary status he has gained in American history. However, people do change and can emerge with new priorities in their lives. I would hope Ronald Steel changes his career.	2004-09-07
US	50104667	R1Y2RTAHO2XHEY	0140187456	69278241	The Long Valley (Twentieth-century Classics)	Books	4	3	7	N	N	Disjointed	The Long Valley is a series of short stories that Steinbeck had published in periodicals at varying times in his career.  Unlike Pastures of Heaven, there is not an underlying theme to connect the stories.  While none of the stories are particularly noteworthy, they do demonstrate the early stages of Steinbeck's development as a writer.    Several of the short stories are just plain strange.  In Saint Katy the Virgin, a evil pig is converted to Christianity and sainthood.  In The Murder, Steinbeck seems to be encouraging spousal abuse.  I am still not entirely clear about the author's point in Johnny Bear.  Other stories have similar flaws in being outlandish.  The one story that reflects Steinbeck's future brilliance is the three part story (the fourth part is under a different name), The Red Pony.  It is the one story that has a sense of purpose.  It is a coming of age story, set during Steinbeck trademark time period. In The Red Pony, a young boy accepts responsibility for a two different ponies and gains respect for his elders.  I also found The White Quail to be enjoyable.    Fans of Steinbeck's other work may find some measure of disappointment in these stories.  While none of the stories seem awful, they do not measure up to the standard one expects of Steinbeck.	2004-09-03
US	50104667	R30R7NJD9EYJKR	0670030783	10638082	Napoleon (Penguin Lives)	Books	4	7	12	N	N	A Bit of Napoleon	First, it need be mentioned about that no 200 page biography of Napoleon will be thorough.  Moving past that obvious fact, Paul Johnson does a more than adequate job of telling Napoleon's story.   <br /> <br />Johnson takes a largely sympathetic view of Napoleon's life.  His unlikely rise to power shows a boy who was not born a subject of the French monarchy.  Only when the island of Corsica was purchased by France did he become French.  It was through his skill in the revolution as military strategist that Bonaparte gained notoriety.  His popularity grew to a such a level that the people demanded him as a ruler thinking his success would transfer to stabilizing the country and its economy.  Thus, he was given the name to be applied to future emperors, Napoleon.  Rather than focusing on strategies for fixing France as its leader, he sought to liberate the other countries of Europe from oppression in the same way France was now liberated.  The early chapters of the book are a little hard to follow.  The author makes the assumption that the reader has knowledge that he is not likely to have. <br /> <br />Napoleon was able to conquer most of Europe.  He was a careful planner, always sought to fight an offensive war, and believed in the power of intimidation.  His refusal to fight a defensive war at Waterloo spelled his demise and banishment. <br /> <br />The author is thorough enough to mention some of the more personal facts of Napoleon's life.  He had a very active libido.  While the drive was active, he wanted to get it over quick.  He wanted to do anything he could quickly including eating or sleeping.  Napoleon had little patience for a time consuming activity like reading. <br /> <br />While the book is vague and hard to follow at the beginning, it finishes in solid fashion.  Since most people will not have the patience to read the 800 page biographies of Napoleon, they will seek shorter versions.  This book is more than adequate in the standards of a condensed biography.	2004-09-01
US	50104667	R15Q7EX2DLD95L	0380603926	742020309	When Bad Things Happen to Good People	Books	5	23	26	N	N	Very Enlightening	Unfortunately, we all suffer in our lifetimes.  As part of our pain, we try to rationalize why we are undergoing trauma.  Harold Kushner takes a personal tragedy as a backdrop for his explanation of why bad things happen to good people.    Kushner left a grey area in this book, though I do not find it particularly objectionable.  How much you get from this book may depend on where you stand on the issue of sovereignty.  Does God control everything that happens to us?  Or is everything determined by free will of man?  Free will, of course, is very real.  It is not God that causes a bullet to kill an innocent person.  The free will of the shooter allows him to fire the gun killing the innocent man.  God does not intervene.  If God intervened everytime an innocent person were hurt, he would be interfering with free will.  Occasionally, the bullet may miraculously miss and maybe it is the work of God.  God has that power.  As an issue of sovereignty, it is a combination between free will and God making things happen.  It is the logical explanation.    Once this issue is surpassed, Kushner presents various scenarios that happen to good people.  He uses the most famous story in the Bible as an example.  The story of Job is the ultimate story of bad things happening to a good person.  In the story, Job must get past that fact that he has not sinned to deserve this suffering.  Suffering, and religion in general, is an opportunity for us to be comforted and see the good in others.  When we see others suffering, it gives us the opportunity to comfort, showing our goodness.  With disease, hunger, or suffering, God gives us the resources to use.  Man has the free will to end suffering.        The easiest way to think about the big picture is the poem title \\"Footprints in the Sand\\".  The moral of the story is that God has not abandoned us in times of suffering.  If we turn to Him and ask for strength to make it through, we will not disappointed.  There is not one set of footprints in the sand because God abandoned us, he is carrying us through our suffering.  Pain and death will not end in this world.  We can never make complete sense of our suffering, but the strength can make life easier when we seek Him.	2004-08-28
US	50104667	R33W762IJD0WJ	0671797972	557658136	Dead Sea Scrolls Deception	Books	2	12	22	N	N	Deceptive	My impression was that the Dead Sea Scrolls Deception would seek to explain the interpretations and misinterpretations of the Dead Sea Scrolls.  In reality, little is even mentioned of the context of the Dead Sea Scrolls. <br /> <br />More than half of the book details the history of the scrolls and how they have been possessed by a number of people who have not decoded the scrolls quickly enough.  The authors seem to arrogantly think interpreting the writings could be done quickly.  The authors go on to criticze the Catholic Church's position on the scrolls.  The Catholic Church was unwilling to allow others to aid in interpretation and any other opinion was blasphemy.  While the Catholic Church is flawed, the book did not need to focus so much time making that point.  This is not what I was hoping to read about it this book.  The last chapters document some of the more wild interpretations of scripture based on the archaeological evidence.  These chapter were better than the first several chapters, but still a bit out there. <br /> <br />For interested readers, The Gnositic Gospels and Beyond Belief by Elaine Pagels are books about recent findings of scrolls that are much more informative and focused.	2004-08-26
US	50104667	R1FX9VLIL8WDFS	0671025465	961720190	Deviant: The Shocking True Story of Ed Gein, the Original Psycho	Books	5	25	30	N	Y	The Best of Edward Gein	Edward Gein, pronounced Geen, is often credited as the a forefather of America's fascination with serial killers.  Because Gein is credited as being the inspiration for such films as Psycho and Texas Chainsaw Massacre, many misconceptions exist about him.  Harold Schechter sets the record straight in Deviant.    Schechter begins the story in Gein's bizarre childhood which is noteworthy because of his lazy and abusive father and dominating mother.  It is his dominating mother that had the greatest influence on him.  She taught him that women were evil.  His mother's death left a void in his life that left him longing for her and the saintly image he placed on her.  This led Gein to punish women less worthy than his mother to live by killing them.  Gein only admitted to killing two people.  The body parts that were scattered over his property would indicate more victims.   Additionally, Gein believes he has the power to will his mother back to life.  While he is unable to bring his mother back from the grave, he does remove many with similarities to his mother from their graves.  When Gein's crimes were discovered, little known Plainfield, Wisconsin was forever changed into a tourist attraction for gapers.      Although Gein died largely anonymously in a mental health facility, the stories of his house of horrors prospered. While his story is often obscured in films and other books, Schechter sets the record straight.  This is a thoroughly researched, commendable book.  It is the best book available on Edward Gein	2004-08-23
US	50104667	R2F02YRQ5CX70A	0451144740	933564388	Luther (Signet)	Books	3	1	3	N	N	Flavorless	I was excited to learn that a play existed about the life Of Martin Luther.  When I look at this book in the literary sense, it is actually pretty bad.  The long diatribes in an actual performance must be tedious and downright painful to the audience.  These sermons take the place of any real story about the life of Luther.  When I look at the play in a historical sense, the work is important in that it gives readers a very concise look at Luther's work and the significance of him standing up to the Catholic Church hierarchy.  The facts that are mentioned about Luther's life are very sparse.<br /><br />John Osborne had a good idea in trying to write the play.  Unfortunately, there realy is no story.  There is no action.  Some lines go on for an entire page.  As an actor, this certainly is not easy to perform with zest.  The basic idea behind Luther's work is told.  Beyond that, I can gage little more about the man.  Although Osborne would have us believe that Luther had some serious issues with his bowel movements.	2004-08-18
US	50104667	R1UIVD7V4MGKO7	1879483440	331242713	Mudbaths & Bloodbaths: The Inside Story of the Bears-Packers Rivalry	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Rivalry	Plain and simple, this book is about football in its purest form.  Forget the 49ers v. Cowboys, Vikings v. Packers, Yankees v. Red Sox, this is the greatest rivalry in sports.  Many of the reviews for this book seem to indicate that the book is slanted heavily in favor of the Packers.  I would disagree.  While the second chapter favored the Pack a little more, the other chapters seem to favor the bears slightly but are close to even.  Overall, I think the book was reasonably balanced.  I can honestly say the book would make a great gift for a fan on either side of the rivalry. <br /><br /> <br /><br />To be honest, I had trouble putting this book down.  D'Amato and Christl did a commendable job of retelling the stories that transpired in this rivalry between charter members of the NFL. From this first game in 1921 though 1997, the great stories are collected.  Included are the Lambeau v. Halas years, Lombardi v. Halas years, Gregg, v. Ditka years, and Holmgrem v. Wannstedt years.  From the begining through the 80's, these teams hated each other. Even when one of the teams stuck, they still put it all on the line against their rival.   <br /><br /> <br /><br />Two chapters that I particularly enjoyed were the chapters on Seven Memorable Names from the rivalry and the Twenty Greatest Games.  Names like Brute Trafton, Bronko Nagurski, Clarke Hinkle, Bulldog Turner, Ray Nitschke, Mike Ditka, Dick Butkis, and Don Majkowski are the story.  So many names I remember and grew up with are here.  These are the stories of legends.  The only disappointment is in that the fans seem to carry the tradition of the rivalry alone.  Perhaps this because of the Packers recent dominance of the Bears.  Nevertheless, I wish the teams would hate each other again.	2004-08-17
US	50104667	R3I6CJB67XRPP9	0394755111	786458413	Iron and Silk	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Smooth & Solid Reading	Iron & Silk is the initial work of Mark Salzman.  I had become a fan of Salzman after reading Lying Awake, the haunting tale of a nun plagued by migrane induced visions.  Iron & Silk is a travel memoir of Salzman's two years of teaching English in China.  It gives American readers a great deal of perspective of China's way of life. <br /> <br />I have a great deal of admiriation for the way of life in China since reading about Buddhism, the Dalai Lama, and other aspects of life in Asia.  What I found most interesting in this book is the Chinese view of Americans.  As a teacher of English, Salzman gains knowledge of the Chinese view of World War II.  This perspective is often forgotten in American textbooks.  It was certainly enlightening for me.  While the book is centered around his teaching at the medical college, Salzman discusses his other explorations of Chinese life.  I found it amazing how many families would take him in just because he was a foreigner.  Salzman is well adept in martial arts.  He discusses his studies of the martial arts, I found this to be tedious to read as I often had difficulty picturing what he was explaining.   <br /> <br />Iron & Silk's primary function is to give readers insight into life in China.  Some of the experiences Salzman writes of are truly eye-opening.  Other experiences cater to a specific portion of the population.  I enjoyed Salzman's insight. <br />	2004-08-14
US	50104667	R1QGTNB4HNMP0U	0816019401	783184560	The KGB: The Russian Secret Police from the Days of the Czars to the Present (World Espionage Series)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Soviet Spy Network	Since the collapse of the Soviet Union, more information has become available about the activities of the KGB.  While some of the material in this book is dated because it was published in 1989, it still gives a great deal of genuine insight into the activities and history of the spy network of the Soviet Union. <br /> <br />The name KGB is loosely translated into Commissariat for State Security.  While the organization called the KGB was only formed after World War II, the roots of the organization go back to Ivan the Great in his attempts at defeating the occupying Mongols.  Various levels of spy organization continued from the time of Ivan the Terrible through Gorbachev.  At times, Soviet intelligence was broken into separate but competing organizations.  The KGB was at its worst under the direction of Joseph Stalin.  His waves of terror saw the execution of anybody perceived to be a threat to the state.  Successful individual spies are also documented including legendary double agent Sydney Reilly.  Truly some of the spy stories could compete with James Bond. <br /> <br />While the book is not as entirely thorough as it could be, the documentation of facts is solid.  Much more could be said and more stories could be told about the Soviet intelligence agency.  This book could serve as a somewhat dated but infornative introduction to the topic.	2004-08-05
US	50104667	R2EMJH7O849BDE	0451163966	808414399	One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest	Books	3	4	6	N	N	One Cuckoo Allegory	I am generally a fan of anti-establishment books such as Catcher in the Rye and Catch-22.  Despite the fact that I really enjoyed the movie, I did not enjoy the book One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest.  At times, I felt Kesey's writing was long-winded and verbose.   <br /> <br />The plot uses a mental hosptial and its megalomanical nurse as a metaphor for an overbearing government and sociey's attempt to control people.  I also am curious if the theme of male versus female was premeditated.  Is Kesey trying to suggest men are controlled/dominated by women?  Unlike the movie, the book is told through the eyes of the Chief.  While this perspective gives the story a different perspective, I had to force myself to continue.  It seems as though a lot of the book should have ended up on the editing room floor.  Pages at a time had nothing to say but continued elaboration.   <br /> <br />I must admit, my concept of the book is largely influenced by the movie.  Despite modest differences in appearance, I could not help but picture Jack Nicholson as McMurphy.  It stands as one of Jack's best performances. <br /> <br />Kesey Has certainly written an influential and entertaining book.  However, this is one case where the movie is better than the book.  The pacing and tone difference between the two is like night and day.  After reading it, I am surprised that this book is often required high school reading.  I seems to be a poor choice to exemplify non-conformist thinking.	2004-08-04
US	50104667	R3SM18MGXTP41U	0140187464	364993993	The Moon Is Down	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Life Imitates Art	John Steinbeck is a masterful writer with a keen eye to see divergent perspectives of the world.  This book may strike Steinbeck fans as being odd because it is not his typical set of early 20th Century California.  Despite this jaunt from his comfort zone, I would go so far as to say this is my second favorite Steinbeck book. <br /> <br />The Moon is Down tells the tale of a Norwegian town conquered by the Nazis.  Despite the advantage that the conquering Nazis have, they are never able to gain the love or admiration that they expect from the people.  This troubles the Nazi soldiers, particularly when the townspeople begin to retaliate against the Nazis.  What immediately strikes me reading this book in 2004 is the book parallels with the situation in Iraq.  I am certainly NOT comparing American soldiers to Nazis.  The idea that a country does not like foreigners occupying their country, no matter how justified the invaders might be, is true.   <br /> <br />The plot eventually digresses into a question of how the Nazis can control the townspeople.  The Nazis are less confident of winning the war and only want to survive.  As the reader would suspect, the Nazis resort to drastic means.  <br /> <br />Steinbeck certainly captures a unique view of war in The Moon is Down.  The value of this book in terms of its political and historical commentary makes it a compelling read.	2004-07-31
US	50104667	R22MS8QLPCV9VD	0891740031	538344369	Escape from Alcatraz	Books	4	9	11	N	N	Rock History	Escape from Alcatraz would be more appropriately named The History of Alcatraz.  On most levels, the book is well put together.  The number of misspellings is grotesquely unacceptable, but the content is reasonably thorough. <br /> <br />The book begins at the discovery of the San Francisco island by Spanish settlers and continues through the closure of the prison.  The book documents each of the attempts to break out of Alcatraz.  Unfortunately, no inmate is confirmed to have escaped alive from The Rock.  Many of The Rock's most famous inhabitants are discussed including Al Capone.  I particularly enjoyed the stories of how the inmates passed their time.  Bootlegging took on a new meaning in Alcatraz when inmates made pruno.  Pruno often included such exotic combinations as milk and gasoline.   <br /> <br />The book is concluded with the closure of the prison.  There is no doubt that Alcatraz was a brutal prison that drove some men insane and others to suicide.  While it was not a deterrent to crime, it was an effective punishment for crime.  Had the condition of Alcatraz not deteriorated so much since the Civil War, it may still be punishing criminals for there crimes.	2004-07-30
US	50104667	R1L6BGSE1X5KPS	0141185465	239341529	All My Sons (Penguin Classics)	Books	4	10	11	N	N	All Not in the Family	All My Sons is Arthur Miller's first work which gives hint of his future genius. While the plot is strong, it starts slowly. However, the ending makes the play worth reading. <br />  <br />The story tells of partners in a defective machine shop during World War II. Keller escapes punishment for the faulty parts. Herbert Deever is sent to prison. Keller's son Chris intends to marry his deceased brother's love who happens to be Herbert Deever's daughter Anne. Keller's wife Kate is in denial of their son Larry's death. This denial makes her a trademark of Miller's works, an annoying female character. She is overbearing and at times a nag. Thus, conflict is created over Chris and Anne's relationship.  The story reaches its climax when the true nature of Larry's death is revealed. While the conclusion is not shocking, it is a fitting end. <br />  <br />Miller has written some great plays and novels. While this is certainly not as good as Death of a Salesman, it is still a solid work.	2004-07-26
US	50104667	R20QXC0HO6WE6L	0425192997	126742853	Takedown: The Fall of the Last Mafia Empire	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Unbelievable!	Over the course of the past few years, my love of reading books about the mafia went dormant. When I arrived upon a copy of &quot;Takedown&quot; in a used book store, my interest was revitalized. The story in &quot;Takedown&quot; is unbelievable not because it is untrue, but because it is unbelievable how many times Rick Cowan avoided certain death. Though it is unbelievable at times, it is a true story. <br />  <br /> By chance, Rick Cowan was in the right palce at the right time. This young detective made the mafia believe he was a cousin in a garbage hauling family. Through this false pretense, he was able to infiltrate the Gambino Fanily to its highest level. Such a task was thought to be out of reach to the NYPD. The stories Cowan tells of his interactions with the mafia have a level of authenticity to them. You can almost hear the stereotypical accents being spoken as you read. I question whether some of the stories were exaggerated to make the book a more exciting read. Surely any man faced with some of these circumstances would crack or slip.  <br />  <br /> Cowan even discusses the strain three years uncover put on his family. This is an aspect of the investigation that receives little attention in similar books. I also enjoyed the epilogue in which Cowan discusses whether he felt remorse for &quot;ratting out&quot; the friends he made in three years. <br />  <br /> Reading a book about the real life mafia is much more exciting than any movie or TV show available. While there certainly must be some fabrications present in the book, none were so glaring to take away from the story. I would recommend this book to any person with an interest organized crime.	2004-07-24
US	50104667	R1RPO853MO5614	0944344585	455650073	The Gospel of Mary of Magdala: Jesus and the First Woman Apostle	Books	5	26	31	N	Y	The Woman Apostle	A great deal of mystery surrounds the recently discovered documents of early Christianity.  The conflict they create with the accepted Gospels lead some to dispel them as heresy, refusing to acknowledge them as Christian docterine.  The issue is worth examining.  For those who seek, shall find!<br />Much of the Gospel of Mary of Magdala is missing, destroyed by years of decay where it was hidden.  The portions that we have tell two main stories. One story shows Mary to be motivating the apostles to spread the word after Jesus's death. The other story is Jesus discussing the soul's passage into the afterlife.  Much like the Gospel of Thomas, many of the stories from the canon gospels are absent.  The Gospel of Mary does give readers insight into the importance of Mary in the development of Christianity.  The author speculates as to why the canon Gospels downplay Mary's role.  Karen King also explores the myth of Mary of Magdala as a prostitute as part of this discussion.  <br />While we may never know the complete story of early Chirstianity, the new Gospels and lost writings help us get a more complete picture.  Because Christianity was spread so far by different people, stories will not always be exactly the same.  This accounts for differences in Gospels and schools of thought in Christianity. The big picture of Christainity stays largely unobscured.	2004-07-20
US	50104667	R39DRM8YU4335V	0399144463	305463091	Who Moved My Cheese?: An Amazing Way to Deal with Change in Your Work and in Your Life	Books	5	3	11	N	N	A Modern Day Parable	Some people just don't get &quot;Who Moved My Cheese?&quot;  This is prefectly acceptable, because it will not work for everybody.  Just like biblical parables, it is often interpreted in different ways.  If you have not read it, I suggest that you give it a chance.<br />I first encountered the book in graduate school and enjoyed it a great deal.  Only recently, has my cheese been moved.  Although prepared for my cheese to be moved, I find myself looking for my new cheese.  The theme of the book deals with the adjustments or adaptations we must make in our lives periodically.  All facets of life are really based in social darwinism, or survival of the fittest.  While you may not like the book, you must agree that adaptation is the key to success and satisfaction in life.	2004-07-16
US	50104667	RCM6A934IV89R	0517585227	895765692	They Also Served: Baseball and the Home Front, 1941-45	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Baseball during War Time	While there are literally thousands of books on World War II, few focus on the homeland during the war.  &quot;They Also Served&quot; focuses on baseball during the war years.  More than 500 baseball players, including greats like Ted Williams and Joe DiMaggio, served their country in the war.  Others served their country by playing baseball, giving Americans a brief escape from their war time troubles.<br />Gilbert's storytelling is focused on four main themes: the developing war, players going to war, the replacement players, and Bert Shepard.  Bert Shepard wanted nothing more than to pitch in the major leagues.  When he lost his leg in the war, he was able to pitch in the major leagues despite his disability.  More remarkable, he had success as a pitcher.  <br />I found the war time decisions that surrounded baseball to be interesting as they are documented in few sources.  Baseball could have been cancelled during the war had Franklin Roosevelt not green lighted the sport to continue.  To conserve resources, travel restrictions limited team travels.  Despite rationing, night games were increased to allow more people the opportunity to attend games after a long work day.  <br />All of the players being shipped off to war allowed the rarest of events, the Chicago Cubs in a World Series.  This can be attributed to the shortage of talent in the major leagues.  On the same theme, many people were allowed the opportunity to play baseball because of the shortage.  These war time players provide a collection of unique stories.  People past their prime and others who lacked skills were given the opportunity to play.  Because of the distraction from the war these players provided by playing baseball, they served their country too.<br />Bill Gilbert has written a priceless classic that is both informative and entertaining.  I was forntunate to pick up a copy of this book at a book fair.  I question why a book such a this valuable piece of a history is out of print.	2004-07-16
US	50104667	R349ZO85J63KNH	0345387651	394884897	The Cider House Rules	Books	3	4	13	N	N	Bad Apples	Being familiar with three John Irving Novels, I see three common themes: sex, swearing, (and  a character with a ) speech impediment.  It is likely that I will not choose to find these themes in any of his other books.  <br />I must admit my enjoyment of the movie led me to read the book.  The book and movie have sharp differences.  The big difference is in the book, Homer and Candy have a baby together while Wally is presumed dead.  People who read Irving can not have an aversion to reading about sex.  In itself, it is not bad to involve sex in the plot of a novel.  The discussion of sex is not problematic, it is that the sex is deviant sex.  Irving includes sex with animals and keeping pubic hair as a keep-sake in the Cider House Rules.  Events like this are outside the lines of good taste.  It is obvious why these events were left out of the movie.  <br />The love story in the book was beyond my comprehension.  Even Melony, an apparent lesbian, is disappointed with Homer.  Why would he have a son with a woman while her boyfriend is away at war while settling for \\"sloppy seconds\\" for the rest of his life.  How could her real husband possibly accept the story that his wife and a friend just decided to adopt a boy while he was apparently dead in the war?  The only point in the story that moves well is when you think Homer will finally tell the truth.  Homer fails though.  There is a lot in the story that is hard to swallow.<br />The main theme of this book seems to be abortion.  Regardless of how you feel about the issue, the argument is poor.  Dr. Larch, Homer's father figure, has accepted the practice.  Homer has not.  As a way of ending the incestious pregnancy of his son's girlfriend , Homer accepts abortion.  It appears that Irving has written nothing more than pro-choice propaganda with a lot of mixed up character in the background.  <br />While Irving is a thorough and very skilled story teller, I have grown tired of his sex obsessed themes in his novels.  Atleast romance novels don't have a political agenda. This is one case where the movie is better than the book.  The movie is more of a coming of age film than propaganda.	2004-07-12
US	50104667	R2DRFJ0NP7GZSV	0140132317	130932419	How to Watch TV News	Books	5	5	6	N	Y	Any Way You Look at it, TV is Bad	In his previous books, Neil Postman has made some excellent observations about society.  I am particularly a fan of his book &quot;Amusing Ourselves to Death&quot;.  In this work, Postman evaluates the televised media in &quot;How to Watch TV News&quot;.  Much like his other works, he raises some important points.<br />News programs are typically filled with a collection of tidbits for a period of time slightly longer than fifteen minutes.  The new items are chosen largely on whether they will draw viewers which in turn will draw advertising dollars.  The advertising dollars pay the TV news media.  So it is not really important what is covered in the news so much as what news will draw ratings.<br />The content of the news is another issue.  In reality, we get the the cliff notes version of the news.  We only receive part of the picture.  We lack a lot of the background information necessary to make judgements.  Because we lack a lot of the information, we are vulnerable to the any bias injected by the news reporter or news station.  One of the main points of the book is that we need to read newspapers and magazines to stay informed.  Without supplemental information or complete picture, we lack the ability to make an informed judgment.  Printed news allows us to select the important stories and eliminate the irrelevant stories.  This is an option we don't have with television news.<br />Postman goes through further scenarios that TV affects.  Particularly the chapter that deals with the effects of news on children is enlightening.  Even though the material is somewhat dated, Channel One programming is also addressed as part of this discussion.  Overall, Postman makes an informed and intelligent statement with this book.	2004-07-08
US	50104667	R1D309D0AFHD29	0892839376	214646317	Teresa of the Poor: The Story of Her Life	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A Beautiful Life	Using an adjective such as amazing to describe the work of Mother Teresa would not be adequate.  Her work through the Missionaries of Charity sets a high standard of living Chirstian life.  Mother Teresa is a phenomenon because she discovered that true bliss and happiness can be found in serving others.  Exstasy can be found in devoting your entire life to service.  While it is difficult to understand, most of know there is something more than can be put into words about God.  Mother Teresa came as close as anybody in recent times to demonstrating what can not be explained.<br />Renzo Allegri's biogrpahy is concise.  On many levels, the biography is a failure.  It spends too much time discussing Allegri's interviews with Mother Teresa.  Being a modest person, she is not likely to sit and talk about herself at length.  The author should have used more expansive research to find out more about her work.  This is the most admired woman of the 20th Century and you can only write 135 pages about her?  Many of the stories are repeated more than once which makes the author seem unfocused in the topic.  The author does have some great stories of the works of Mother Teresa.  The author does also give us insight into who Mother Teresa was.  However, I believe their is so much more to be written about this magnificent woman.<br />What will stick with me most about this book is the fact that every time she care for a sick or dying person, Mother Teresa cared for them as if it was Jesus suffering in her arms.  We must remember, what we do for the least of His people, you do unto Him.	2004-07-04
US	50104667	RUBJUP4LWF27I	0345342968	383457570	Fahrenheit 451	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A Dark Age Inferno	Fahrenheit 451 is a futuristic story of the dark ages.  Guy Montag, a fireman with the job of burning books, sees a problem with book burning after meeting a nonconformist neighborhood girl.  Ultimately, this leads Montag on a path which encourages him to discover books.  While he was told books are nonsensical and useless, he discovers their beauty.  Montag rebels, destroying his own home and killing the fire chief.  As a fugitive, he ends up on the outskirts of the city when a war destroys his former homeland.  The insinuation is that the book keepers who live outside the city will bring about the end of the dark age, rebuilding civilization.  <br />Bradbury's futuristic society is effective because he creates a thorough picture of the future.  In the same breath, I think the scenario is realistic because people do not read as often as they once did.  It made me think about the likelihood of a new dark age.<br />The story starts off slowly. Montag seems to have an unhealthy obsession with the young girl.  But as the story develops, more conflicts are evident.  As a consequence, the story flows more smoothly.  I particularly enjoyed the police chase.  The mechanical hounds seemed very realistic.  They would seem to be such an effective crime fighting tool for this day and age.  <br />I would suggest this book is a classic.  If you enjoyed &quot;1984&quot;, &quot;Brave New World&quot;, or &quot;Animal Farm&quot; for the ideas they stood for, you should enjoy this book.	2004-07-02
US	50104667	R22PW6UGJ9ID09	0553277243	647652598	Time Flies	Books	5	0	1	N	N	The Joy of Getting Old	Bill Cosby is a very perceptive man.  In &quot;Time Flies&quot;, he makes his observations about getting old.  Much like &quot;Fatherhood&quot;, this book is laugh out loud funny.  This is a great read for young and old.<br />Bill Cosby's has a gift for writing quality comedy.  &quot;Times Flies&quot; focuses on several facets of growing old.  One of the funniest chapters addresses the complications of adjusting to bifocals.  As a former wearer of bifocals, I had a great appreciation of Cosby's view.  As somebody that has dietary issues, I also had a great appreciation of his perspective of dieting.  Other sections deal with changes in your body and clothes.  My only objection is that I feel Alvin Poussaint's introductions are a bit patronizing and annoying.  This is a sample of Cosby's wit.  And Cosby's wit is worth its price.	2004-06-30
US	50104667	R2P2OYMVZXVJYY	0786704853	913206135	Stanley Kubrick: A Biography	Books	4	2	4	N	N	Enigma	Stanley Kubrick was an enigma of a man.  Because of the secrecy that shrouded his life, there is much that fans of his work may never know.  John Baxter's work is gives insight mostly into Kubrick's films and their creation.  <br />Baxter's first two chapters seem irrelevant and tedious in the scope of the book.  They only serve to allow Baxter to praise Kubrick's work.  After these chapters, we are introduced to Stanley's growth and development in films.  Kubrick's early films which he thought were bad in hindsight, show his growth and experimentation.  Going through his other films, I found the chapters which discussed &quot;A Clockwork Orange&quot; and &quot;2001&quot; to be the best presented.  This is adventageous because these are his best loved films.<br />I believe that it was merciful for &quot;Eyes Wide Shut&quot; to be given so little coverage since Kubrick never truly was able to put his final stamp on the film.  He tinkered with work often up until days before its release.  Aside from his horrid choice of actors, his death left this work unfinished.<br />Kubrick's idiosincrisies, including his fear of cars, flying, and distrust for machines, are discussed in the book.  While they may seem irrevelant, these discussions help us to know who Kubrick was.  The discussions are no more irrelevant than some sections of the book which talk about events regarding his movies that have little to do with the overall picture.  Also, I felt it was unnecessary to go into discussion of every script he rejected.  Some ideas he rejected to quickly to be important enough to mention.    <br />I was grateful that Baxter mentioned &quot;Artificial Intelligence&quot;, being developed by Kubrick.  Fans are curious as to how his final script may have looked.  I am certain that it would have been better than Speilberg's.	2004-06-28
US	50104667	R30K4XBZ1XJPZS	0802135587	549818269	Che Guevara: A Revolutionary Life	Books	5	31	44	N	N	A Revolutionary Life	Ernesto &quot;Che&quot; Guevara was a revolutionary.  He was born in Argentina but never called the country home after his college years, studying medicine.  Through his travels during his college years, he became aware of the povery and inequality in South America.  This inspired him to fight for the equality he felt Marxism would bring.  Che is known for his effect on the communist revolution in Cuba.  He also fought in falied revolutions in Congo and Bolivia.  It is safe to say that he is a man who impacted the world even if you do not agree with his political views.  He is the man who invented guerrilla warfare.<br />John Lee Anderson's book is the definitive book on Che Guevara.  At times, it is almost too detailed with its nearly 800 page length.  In reality, a book being too detailed is a compliment.  The pictures he chose to include in the text are outstanding.  Many of the pictures have been in CIA possession for years, and unseen to the public.<br />While not directly a goal of the book, I enjoyed the insight this book gives into the relationship between Che and Fidel Castro.  Anderson lets the reader draw conclusions rather than telling the reader what to think.  While Castro believed in communism, Guevara was held policies more closely to the writing of Karl Marx.  Che was willing to criticize policy if he felt it was not &quot;Marxist enough&quot;.  Unlike Castro, Che was willing to criticize the Soviet Union leaders for not living in the true equality that communism is intended to be.<br />Despite Cuba's rivalry with the United States, I found it odd that more was not mentioned about the Cuba Missle Crisis.  Guevara detested the United States, so it seems he would have had more to say in the matter.  If he did have more to say, little is mentioned in the book.  <br />Because of its length, readers need some spare time to take in this whole book.  The thoroughness of the product makes reading this book a rewarding experience.	2004-06-26
US	50104667	RKJOORAQ0SI1G	1891620436	450195029	Power and the Presidency	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Well Stated	Power and the Presidency seeks to capture the unique traits of a collection of the more successful recent Presidents.  The writers of each of the sections are in most cases biographers of the president for which they write.  While the content on each president is brief, I found it to be an informative and enjoyable read.<br />Franklin Roosevelt is portrayed as a born leader.  His personality was ideal for leading the country through the conflicts of his Presidency.  Goodwin's section has the underlying theme that even if you did not like Roosevelt, you had to respect him.  <br />Beschloss's chapter is my favorite as it contrasts the Presidencies of Kennedy and Eisenhower.  Eisenhower was the thoughful though man America needed in avoiding a policy of isolationism and fighting a war in Korea.  Kennedy was the peacemaker the country needed to avoid war with Cuba and Soviet Union.  Their unique personality characteristics were suited to their time period.<br />Lyndon Johnson was a very secretive men.  It is difficult to tell truth from myth in many cases.  Lyndon Johnson is to be commended for his interpersonal skills, even though some turned sour.  With his relationships in the congress, he was able to pass the Civil Rights Act.  Johnson was a intelligent politician.<br />Richard Nixon was a complex man.  He did not like failure, nor did he enjoy the comradery of politics.  This is one of the reasons he was more successful on foreign issues than domestic issues.  This same inability to communicate led a competent politician to be involved in Watergate.  A well stated chapter.<br />Ronald Reagen was the great communicator.  He was unique to his time period in that he gentle, people loving nature brought back people's faith in government.  His acting ability transfered in to politics forging a relationship that ended the cold war.  Like many essays on Reagen, this only looks at the good points.  In this case, it may not be a bad thing.<br />Perhaps I am to harsh on thechapter on Bill Clinton since it was written in the final year of his Presidency.  The focus is on his drive to be President.  He was the man Republicans hated, but had to go along with because he always beat them.  Little is mentioned of the economic growth in his presidency.  The focus is on the sex scandal and failed health care reform.  His greatest accomplishment seems to be winning elections.  The author does say that time will tell how his presidency is viewed in history.  This certainly won't be the benchmark. This is a poorly composed section even for its time.	2004-06-22
US	50104667	R2KIFB1DS4VSXT	0142000426	757352844	Focus	Books	4	1	2	N	Y	Focus on Anti-Semitism	Before coming across this book, I was not aware of the prejudice that faced Jews in America during World War II and the years before the war.  The idea of the book is an interesting concept.  Lawrence Newman is mistaken for a Jew because of his glasses.  Even though he is actually a Gentile, he endures anti-semitic prejudice.<br />The story has two serious flaws that take away from the overall story.   Lawrence's wife, Gertrude, is foul and annoying women.  Arthur Miller seems to create most of his female leads with great flaws.  I desperately wanted Lawrence to just tell her to shut up.  The other flaw is the passive nature of Lawrence.  I wanted him to stand up for himself.  The issue in the story is not so much anti-semitism as it is Lawrence's extremely passive nature.  It is almost predictable that he does not get angry enough to strike back until after he gets beat up and there is nobody around.  <br />The flaws written into the characters take away from the serious issue addressed in the story.  While Miller is to be commended for raising the issue, he failed to make a serious statement about it.  In other words, it lacks focus.  The book claims to be Miller's most controversial work, but it never fully attacks the issue.  Finkelstein, an actual Jew, is most compelling character because he is real and has something to say.  He fought back, making him the only character that the reader can identify with.<br />Certainly this is not Miller's best work.  Death of a Saleman is one of my favorites stories.  This story is solid, but fails to meet expectations.	2004-06-20
US	50104667	R197654B089D2D	0312983840	235784872	I: The Creation of a Serial Killer	Books	5	14	16	N	N	Stunning!	I have amassed quite a collection of true crime books in my life.  Aside from Helter Skelter, this may be my favorite true crime book.  Aided by a very forthcoming killer, Jack Olsen displays a wealth of knowledge on his subject.   While I found the brevity of chapter to be discouraging, the contend creates an exceptional product.  While some authors in this genre continually repeat themselves, Olsen tells a seamless story with a continual supply of fresh information.<br />Keith Hunter Jesperson is the &quot;Happy Face Killer&quot;.  He earns this name through his washroom stall vandalism and letter writing signature.  Jesperson's killing spree involves eight women.  In the case of his first murder, others went to jail for his crime.  His final death toll could have been larger if he had not killed his &quot;fiance&quot;.  The story is unique because the killer is a truck driver.  This facet of the story gives unique insight into the life of a truck driver.  The murders are spread through a large area with victims that a largely prostitutes.  Jesperson places much of the blame for his murders on his father.  The childhood stories depict his father as a manipulative, abusive alcoholic.  Even from the stories in the present, his father seems this way.  If the stories he describes are true, his father does hold some responsibility for his son's crimes.  <br />True crime fans must add this book to their collection.  The stories are detailed and give insight into the acts of a serial killer which have never been seen before.	2004-06-08
US	50104667	RTX3M3AULGMKZ	0375703160	81872394	Beyond Belief: The Secret Gospel of Thomas	Books	5	15	15	N	N	Origins of Belief	I have only recently learned of the existence of the &quot;secret&quot; Gospels.  My first questions about them were, &quot;What do these secret Gospels say?&quot; and &quot;Why are these secret Gospels not included in the bible?&quot;.  Elaine Pagels' primary focus is on the Gospel of St. Thomas.  Because Thomas is often labeled as &quot;Doubting Thomas&quot; or the apostle of the weakest faith, I thought Pagels' focus was an interesting choice.<br />While the book itself gives little of the actual text written by Thomas, differences between the Gospel of Thomas and the others are highlighted.  The main source of comparison for Thomas is the Gospel of John.  Of the four Gospels of which most people are familiar, John is the most controversial because his differs form the other three on many levels.  The author's discussion expands into the choice of the four Gospels and the reasoning behind this choice.  Very few people are actually aware of how the Gospels and New Testament were developed.  <br />Pagels also looks briefly at other secret Gospels including the Gospel of Truth, the Gospel of Mary Magdalene, and the Dead Sea Scrolls.  I appreciate that the author went throught the process by which these books were rediscovered.<br />Many Christians find these alternative Gospels to be heresy because of there differences to the canon Gospels.  I find this book to be a great explanation behind the divergence in Christianity.  It was enlightening to see Jesus in new ways.  Differing forms of Christianity developed from the differing missionaries who ventured to different lands.  The fact that what in most cases are small differences can lead all Christians back to the basics of the faith is a beautiful reflection of the faith.  God, Jesus, or the Chirstian faith is not able to be categorized into boxes as many sects of Chirstian faith would have you believe.  The book is merely encouragement to those who endeavour to, in the words of Jesus, &quot;seek and you shall find!&quot;	2004-06-05
US	50104667	RZ5D4AEUVXBFG	0805061479	277559952	A Prayer for the Dying: A Novel	Books	4	2	2	N	N	An Outbreak and a Fire	The cover of this book was eerie enough to catch my attention.  Since the book is largely centered around death, it is somewhat dreary.  The story comes across as a 19th Century version of the movie \\"Outbreak\\".   The author chooses the unique position of addressing you in the place of the main character.  He is the sheriff and undertaker in Freindship, Wisconsin.   <br />Jacob is faced with two rising problems.  A health epidemic is killing the people rapidly and a fire is threatening the town.  The raging fire is complicated by the quarantine placed on the town because of the health epidemic.  Jacob's wife and daughter both succumb to the disease as the reader would expect.  When Jacob catches the last train out of town to beat the fire, the reader knows that he can not leave with his wife and daughter still alive.  All of the remaining town is dead.  Because of his role as the town's undertaker, Jacob takes on a role that would make Job's fate seem not so harsh.<br />While the topic is morbid, O'Nan forces the reader to do some souls searching.  The reader is forced to ponder what he/she would have done in these circumstances.  Because of the unique perspective he gives the reader, O'Nan comes through as an effective storyteller.  Every story does not have a happy ending.  This story is not told to lighten somebody's day.  It was written to make people think.	2004-05-30
US	50104667	R3CRFBE0BOWJ7Q	0140187480	140330613	The Pastures of Heaven (Twentieth-century Classics)	Books	4	14	19	N	N	A Patchwork of Stories	Because I am such a fan of John Steinbeck's writing, I feel I am able to say that this is not among his best work.  &quot;The Pastures of Heaven&quot; is centered around a beautiful valley in California.  After its discovery by a Spanish Corporal, the book goes into the stories that happend on this land.  While some of the characters recur, most of the characters are forgotten after their story is told.  Steinbeck's character descriptions are the masterwork that is expected of him.  However, since there is no running theme aside from the land itself, the reader may have difficulty maintaining interest.  Without a main character, it is difficult to be drawn in to the story. <br />Each chapter in the book starts a separate story.  Some of the stories are amusing.  I found the story in Chapter IV to be the best.  Other stories such as Chapter IX seem to lack any coherence with the rest of the stories, but serve only the purpose of forwarding an opinion on a social issue.  In the case of Chapter IX, Steinbeck is discussing the ethics of the death penalty.  <br />While fans of Steinbeck are certain to read this book, casual fans are unlikely to enjoy it.  The Steinbeck fan who reads all of his work is likely to find some of the stories enjoyable.	2004-05-30
US	50104667	RJCYUMYX9BERJ	0345424417	705285832	Castro's Curveball	Books	3	0	1	N	N	Tim Wendel's Knuckleball	I had high hopes for this book.  The book describes itself as a fictionalized account of Fidel Castro's baseball career.  I thought maybe the book might be bold enough to go as far as exploring what could have been if Castro made the major leagues.  The book stops well short of these possibilities.  Tim Wedel sticks close to events that could have actually happened in Cuba's last revolution.<br />The only part of this book that maintained my interest was the story of the winter ball league in Cuba before the communist revolution.  It was an interesting perspective of baseball.  The image of Fidel Castro portrayed by Wendel, at times a combination of Sammy Sosa and Machiavelli, is hard to swallow.  While the Castro begins to show dishonest tendancies toward the end of the book, he never seems care-free.   It seems even harder to picture Castro in love.  The bulk of the story does not even focus on baseball but on the competition between the main character and Castro for a women.  This plot is set to the background of the beginning of Castro's revolution.  The love story, which fails to maintain the reader's interest, is hard to image because we can't think of Castro as a man interested in love.  The only way I would recommend this book to somebody is if they thought a story with Castro as part of a love triangle sounds interesting or palatable.  Even for somebody who has been interested in the life of Castro I only finished the book because I was curious as to how it would end.	2004-05-27
US	50104667	R38NKDAIMFRKVU	0963020404	105367040	Goodbye Old Friend: A Pictorial Essay on the Final Season at Old Comiskey Park	Books	5	2	2	N	N	WOW!  Truly Spectacular!	The photography in this book is spectacular.  Looking over the last season at old Comiskey through this book brought back some memories.  This is particularly the case for the game against the A's which I was at.  The pictures bring back great memories.  The variety of photographs from all parts of the part gives you an insider's view as well.  I too would love to see one more game at this ball park.	2004-05-23
US	50104667	R2P4R94YRAI8XZ	0743203291	742968691	Robert Kennedy: His Life	Books	5	5	7	N	Y	An Exeptionally Well Written Look at RFK	In the pages of history, Robert F. Kennedy will forever live in his brother's shadow.  While comparing the Kennedy brothers is unfair to their unique individual characteristics, Evan Thomas has written a staggering biography of Robert.  We may never fully understand the complexities of the former Attorney General, but he can get a better idea of who he was.  The writing of Evan Thomas is a refreshing demonstration of how a well researched, focused, yet unbiased journalism should read.<br />The Prologue gives a very summarized preview of Robert Kennedy's life.  The quotes and major events are in this chapter.  As the reader, I appreciate the preview of what I am about the read.  Even in this portion of the book, Thomas wastes no time on frivilous details.  <br />The story begins in Robert's childhood as the forgotten Kennedy son.  The Runt, as his father calls him, lives in the shadow of his brothers Joseph Jr. and John.  Because his two older brothers are seemingly annointed for greatness by his father, Robert takes to his mother.  The favor of his mother caused Robert to develop a strong religious devotion and sense of morality.  It is reasonable to believe that this is why Robert took a strong interest in preventing conflict and helping the poor.  Only after John becomes President and Robert is appointed Attorny General does he gain the respect of his father.  <br />The book shows the decline of Robert after the assassination of his brother.  It has been theorized that he was plagued with guilt for his brother's death.  Yet it is through these events that we are able to see Robert develop his sense of self.  He is elected to his first office as New York Senator.  Frustrated by the progress of Lyndon Johnson he enters the 1968 election.  It is at a victory speech during the campaign that he is assassinated.<br />Robert F. Kennedy is a complex individual.  Throughout his life he was haunted by more ghosts and grief than most men are able to survive.  This is a reflection of the strength of this great American.  Evan Thomas does a superb job of campturing this complex story.	2004-05-23
US	50104667	R1KGQ4UYJK9Q9D	0887306616	823412473	Post-Capitalist Society	Books	2	11	16	N	N	An Aberrating Capitalism	When I saw this book, I thought it would give real insight into the future of economics.  Because I have a strong knowledge of economics and management theory, I found this book to be rather dry.  The title seems to suggest a major change in the structure of economics.  I would suggest a more appropriate title of this book would be, &quot;An Aberrating Capitalism&quot;.  <br />Drucker's theory is based on the idea that manual labor is declining.  To replace it, people will have to have a knowledge needed by employers.  In effect, they will be selling their knowledge to the employer.  Gone are the industrialists like J.P. Morgan and Andrew Carnegie.  In there place are no-name managers, people of knowledge.  The structure of the economy has certainly changed in the last hundred years.  However, I am not sure the change is so drastic as to label the birth of a new capitalism.  If Drucker wants to call this new era &quot;Post-Capitalism&quot;, it is still &quot;Capitalism&quot; by definition.  <br />I suspect this book is a useful tool for additional reading in college economics courses and advanced high school social studies courses.  I found nothing about the book particularly enriching.	2004-05-16
US	50104667	R2PDJ06O5HO0P5	0929587782	631827717	Ape and Essence	Books	2	5	12	N	N	Bizarre and Forgettable	I am a tremendous fan of Aldous Huxley's &quot;Brave New World.&quot;  Seeing that this book had high marks by other reviewers, I thought I might enjoy it.  I have trouble believing that the same author wrote both books.<br />&quot;Ape and Essence&quot; begins in the movie industry where an old discarded script is discovered.  The movie industry employees seek out the writer only to find he has been dead for a few weeks.  After this revelation, the book jumps into the actual script.  The script reads like a cheap romance novel.  In a strange savage land, a man from civilization falls in love with a primative woman.  They face conflict, but there forbidden love endures.  They run away together and live happily.  And we never find out what happens to the ever so fortunate movie mogels who rescued the script from incineration.<br />Was Aldous Huxley suffering from writer's block when he wrote this?  It is certainly not his best work.  There is a reason few people have read this book.  It is not very good.	2004-05-15
US	50104667	R2B577Q35J05WJ	0393008797	876659508	Khrushchev: The Years in Power (Norton Library (Paperback))	Books	3	6	7	N	N	A One-Sided Look at Khrushchev	A more appropriate title for this book would have been &quot;Khrushchev: The Economic and Agricultural Decisions&quot;.  I bought this book hoping to get insight into Nikita Khrushchev's years in power.  Unfortunately, the book focuses too much on Khrushchev's agricultural decisions.<br />Little mention is made of Khrushchev's foreign policy.  His visit to America is briefly mentioned.  The deteriorating relationship between the Soviet Union and China is only discussed at a slightly greater length.  Perhaps the best chapters are the ones that show Khrsuhchev's rise to power.  From the position he held prior to Stalin's death, he seemed to be an unlikely leader.  However, he quickly gained control and popularity attaining the leadership status.  Much of the support Khrushchev gained was due the agricultural success he initiated under Stalin and his condemnation of Stalin's brutal leadership after Stalin's death.  While Khrushchev did many positive things for the Soviet Union, the economic and specifically agricultural failures he experienced as a leader haunt his reputation.<br />I would only suggest this book if you are interested it the economic and agricultural policy of the Soviet Union during this period.  Aside from these points, the book has little else to offer.	2004-05-13
US	50104667	R124QGQRZ5SOK1	0971419507	763605507	Through Hope and Despair: A Fan's Memories of the Chicago White Sox 1967-1997	Books	5	3	3	N	N	For White Sox Fans by a White Sox Fan	Let me start out by saying that there is no other team in sports that I hold in the same regard as the White Sox.  I am a passionate White Sox fan.  I was excited to find a book on my team, particularly from the fan's point of view.  Dan Helpingstine has his finger on the pulse of White Sox fans.  He understands the pain of White Sox fans.  Even better than any media source has been able to state, he understands why these are the most bitter and apathetic fans in baseball and perhaps sports as a whole.  In a city full of losing teams, no fan has been walked on more than White Sox fans.<br />Dan Helpingstine begins the book with a history of the White Sox through his eyes from the 1967 through the 1997 seasons.  I particularly enjoyed reading about the 1977 and 1983 teams.  While the chapters about the seasons are informative and well researched, I only regret that they could not be more thorough.  On the other hand, some of those seasons really need not be visited again.  Helpingstine finishes the book with a look to the future and a look at the eroding fan base.  In his look at the eroding fan base, he could not be more accurate in listing poor decisions by ownership, a history of late season failure, and a media that is critical of Sox fans as the problem.  The one solution to the problems is a consistent winner/playoff team and a World Series Championship.  Go White Sox!	2004-05-09
US	50104667	R17D5ZLRI9D5LH	0385246641	750818397	Love and Marriage	Books	3	5	8	N	Y	Love and Marriage	Having recently read \\"Fatherhood\\", I had high hopes for \\"Love and Marriage\\".  In \\"Fatherhood\\", some genuine parenting advice was presented.  After reading the first chapter of \\"Love and Marriage\\", I was expecting similar tidbits to be present in this book.  I was disappointed.<br />The book really falls apart after the first few chapters.  These chapters give an enlightening look into the youthful period when we discover the other sex.  After this analysis, the book goes into Cosby's dating disasters that rage on until he meets his wife.  The remaining chapters discuss his marriage.  These chapters digress into jokes about the differences between the sexes and other humor.  While these diatribes are moderately entertaining, they lack the wisdom I have come to expect from Cosby.<br />Because the trademark wit did not accompany the wisdom, I found myself to be disappointed with this book.  While I would encourage you to read the masterwork \\"Fatherhood\\", I do not have high regards for this book.	2004-05-04
US	50104667	R15IK519CXN9CQ	0738532444	161194271	Comiskey Park  (IL)   (Images of Baseball)	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Baseball Palace of the World	The old Comiskey Park was the first place I saw a baseball game.  It is still my ideal place to see a baseball game.  Because I collect any reading material I find on the old ballpark, I seized the opprtunity to buy this book when I saw it in a bookstore.  The photography of this book, while far to brief, is spectacular.  The one misfortune is that all the pictures are in black and white.  One of the interesting things is to watch the evolution of the Dan Ryan Expressway next to Comiskey Park as the ballpark ages.  <br />True White Sox fans will note the error printed in this book involving a White Sox homerun hitter.  Irregardless, Sox fans will enjoy this gem.	2004-05-04
US	50104667	RRS7TK5RD8IBT	1574410296	438083169	A Sniper in the Tower: The Charles Whitman Murders	Books	5	24	24	N	Y	Meticulously Well Stated!	Some true crime books are not well written.  In terms of the total product, this is without a doubt the one of the best true crime books written.  Gary Lavergne meticuliously researched the events of August 1, 1966 in Austin, Texas.  The book is worthy of the envy of other true crime writers.<br />Lavergne details the significant events in the life of Charles Whitman in the days leading to the massacre.  Whitman's abusive homelife leads him to join the marines, leaving his family behind.  Whitman struggles to find his niche.  His continual search to better the success of his father became obsessive.  The obsession grows to the point where he feels that he is a success at nothing.  Lavergne's account is factual without skewing from personal opinion or theories.  His objective view is important when he tells the controversial information behind the killing of Charles Whitman and the end to the massacre.  Rather than taking the of Ramiro Martinez or Houston McCoy, Lavergne prefers to make the point that they both got the sniper.  Similarly, little attention is paid the the brain tumor that a select few believe cause Whitman to initiate his attack on the University of Texas Campus. <br />I am particulary appreciative of the endnotes at the end of each chapter.  Because there was a lot of research into the project, many sources were used.  It makes more sense to have the sources listed at the end to the chapters so they are more readily available to the reader.  The book is easy for those interested in the topic to enjoy.	2004-05-02
US	50104667	R1B4B7ZMPB82J2	0670030422	383275834	On Politics and the Art of Acting	Books	5	0	1	N	N	The Performance of Politics	Arthur Miller has a good reason to write this book.  He is an American with an understanding of politics.  In addition, he is one of the premier playwright of the 20th century.  In this book, Miller explores politics as an art form, the art of acting.  In this non-partisan evaluation, Miller makes many intelligent observations.<br />In terms of acting, Miller observes that Ronald Reagan was the best actor among the Presidents.  He is such a quality actor that he had trouble discriminating between his roles and reality.  Clinton is listed as the second best performer for his poise which made people empathize with him.  It should be no secret why these two are the most successful presidents of the last 30 years.  It is not until Miller writes about FDR that Miller shows partisanism.  While originally disliking Roosevelt, Miller sympathized with Herbert Hoover and the Republican Party in his youth.  FDR is credited with bringing the country out of the depression.  This changes Miller's opinion of democrats.  My disagreement with Miller is in his statement that Roosevelt was not a great actor.  The fact that FDR was able to hide his disability while leading the country through dark times shows strong acting skills. <br />Miller also was an insightful look at the 2000 election.  It terms of substance, election 2000 was in no way like the Lincoln-Douglas deabates.  Miller correctly asserts that the 2000 election became a question of who voters disliked the least.  On camera, Al Gore looked robotic at times and in one particular incident snobbish.  Gore became easier for many to dislike despite better qualifications.  Miller evaluates Bush's increasing comfort level in front of the camera noticing that people still do not trust him because of poor acting skills.<br />I would have like to have seen Miller explore the performances of other recent Presidents.  I don't think this would meet the overall point of the book.  Miller's point is that politics is not about the most qualified or most intelligent candidate.  It comes down to which candidate is looks better on camera or is the better actor.  The product is just not as important as the packaging.	2004-04-28
US	50104667	R5B3AQ8UBOVI0	034543241X	408123412	Still Me: With a New Afterword for this Edition	Books	4	1	2	N	N	An Intelligent and Informative Autobiography	Having already read Reeve's second book &quot;Nothing is Impossible&quot;, I wanted to read his autobiography &quot;Still Me&quot;.  I truly enjoyed reading the second book.  However, I am a little disappointed with &quot;Still Me&quot;.  In addition to the general tone of the book, I was suprised by the incoherent nature in which this book is presented.  While I am sure the biography was once in a more chronological order, I believe the book was deteriorated by poor editting decisions.  <br />The story of Christopher Reeve is tragic.  Being confined to a wheel chair for nearly ten years has severely limited the career of a talented actor.  Reeve is likely to be remembered type cast to his role as Superman despite this being only a small measure of his acting capabilities.  Because of his injury, more than Reeve's acting career was limited.  His interactions with family and others have been altered.  Additionally, the simple pleasures have been taken away from him.  However, Reeve finds unlimited joy in a loving wife and beautiful children.  The title of the book is a reflection of this joy.<br />I found the chapters in which he wrote about his disability and recovery prospects most interesting.  Reeve has served as a great ambassador to educate the public about spinal cord injuries.  These chapters were intertwined with the chapters of his life and career before the accident.  I found the arrangement of chapters distracting from the overall story and tone.  Because of the arrangement of the chapters, Reeve comes across as being very bitter.  While I know he has reason to be angry, I do not believe that is how he is.  For this reason, I believe poor decisions about the layout of the book take away from its quality.  Nevertheless, I still found the book to be interesting and entertaining.	2004-04-25
US	50104667	REKCPZUPUL075	0375706062	449261090	Lying Awake	Books	5	3	3	N	N	One Story, Insight for Many	While I do not normally read fiction, I was strangley drawn to a copy of this book in a used book store.  Perhaps because I am a religious person, I thought the book sounding interesting.  While the book is a slow read at times, I found it to be both informative and enlightening. <br />Sister John of the Cross faces a dilemma.  She has visions which are accompanied by migrane headaches.  A small meningioma is causing epilepsy like seizures.  Immediate removal of the growth would relieve her of her pain with little risk.  However based on its location, the meningioma is causing the seizures and halucinations.  Sister John's choice is between health and an intimate relationship with God.  How she arrives at her decision is a frustrating but practical process.<br />Through this book, I received a deeper understanding of a nun's lifestyle.  It also made me appreciate the daily burdens I bear.  More importantly, I gained more insight into a person's relationship with God.  While the ultimate desire is to become close to God, it is not possible in this life.  Similarly, everything we learn about God leads us to deeper mystery.  Our relationship with Him is a continued journey that we can not measure the progress for in this life.	2004-04-22
US	50104667	R2KLA7606L94DU	0060530626	2759931	Profiles in Courage	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	Courage Defined	John F. Kennedy was an award winning writing before he became President.  While I have long intended to read his best known book, I have only recently acted on the opportunity.  Although my primary interest in American history is relegated to more recent history, I found \\"Profiles in Courage\\"to be a very pleasurable read.<br />Kennedy chose a select group of senators with courageous motives to be the subject of his book.  The time periods of the senators are as diverse as their deeds.  John Q. Adams is the discussed for his valor in voting against the Federalist principles he was elected to defend.  His actions made him unpopular in his home state of Massachusetts.  Daniel Webster is noted for his attempts to keep the union together.  Thomas Hart Benton refused to allow Missouri to leave the union while combating the Kansas-Nebraska Bill.  Sam Houston turned most of the state of Texas against himself by refusing to allow Texas to leave the union.  Edmund Ross perhaps received more abuse than any of the senators mentioned in the book for being the vote that prevented Andrew Jackson's conviction on impeachment charges.  Lucius Quintas Cincinnatus Lamar became the unpopluar southern senator to bridge the gap with the North in the Reconstruction.  George Norris caused an end to the political machine the senate had become in his time.  Robert Taft became to unpopular spokesman for the illegalities of the Nuremberg Trials.  Most of these men sacrificed their political careers for their stance.  These stories are refreshing in an era of partisan politics.  It is difficult to image similar acts today.<br />Although Kennedy was never allowed to reach his potential as a President, he proves to be an accomplished writer. Kennedy unintentionally raises questions about the functioning of the senate and government in general.  It must be questioned if a democracy is truly working if the main goal of a senator or elected official is to be reelected.  With reelection at stake, canany elected official vote for the best interest of the country if it is unpopular with the people?  Government is intended to act in the people's best interest.  It must be considered if appointed senators were more effective than elected senators.  While there may be no easy answer to this, pondering the question and potentially making changes is an example effective democracy.	2004-04-19
US	50104667	R2UF06Z6PBVG4A	0140187510	291864880	To a God Unknown (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Thought-Provoking Steinbeck	John Steinbeck has a habit of leaving the reader hanging a little bit at the end of his stories.  &quot;To a God Unknown&quot; is no different.  This is one of the more admirable qualities of Steinbeck as he does not tell the reader what to think.  He trusts the reader's intelligence.<br />Steinbeck tells this story in the setting that seems to be his trademark, the early agricultural societies of the West.  Joseph Wayne is struggling in his faith.  He adopts pagan beliefs because they work while his land prospers.  When the tree that is the center of his pagan beliefs is killed by his religious brother, the farm and his life begin a downward spiral.  While the story almost seems biblical in the beginning, it becomes strange after the tree is killed.  While Joseph seems to be a saint in the beginning, his character unravels.  After the death of his wife and giving away his only son, Joseph takes to worshiping the moss growing on a rock.  Eventually, the moss becomes the center of his life.  The mossy rock becomes the scene of his demise as it was the scene of his wife's demise.  <br />The last scene will require some thought and reflection for the reader.  Perhaps you will find your own interpretation.  In the final scene, the priest hopes Joseph is happy with the rain.  He says this unknowing of Joseph's death/apparent suicide.  Both the pagan and the priest received what they prayed for in the end.  The priest has the last word.  I think this tells you who was right.  The thought-provoking nature of the book makes it a very underrated classic from Steinbeck.	2004-04-17
US	50104667	R1J3U8TLQX329L	0060935499	576308701	Amadeus: A Play by Peter Shaffer	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Brilliant!	In this lifetime, we may never know the true fate of Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart.  By way of books, plays, and movies, people have speculated as to what caused the premature death of Mozart.  Like most other publications on the subject, Peter Shaffer's \\"Amadeus\\" is based on facts with his insight and speculation.  The play he created is well paced and entertaining.<br />While the play is about the life of Mozart, the story's focus is on the storyteller, Antonio Salieri.  We meet Salieri, the storyteller, near his death while strickened with guilt.  Salieri is envious of the young prodigy Mozart and plots his demise.  The continued acts of sabotage eventually lead to Mozart's death.  The irony is that he is seen as crazy and people are not sure if his guilt is based on reality.  Salieri's last link to fame as Mozart's assassin is denied.  Of course, Mozart's music is timeless, while most people would be hard pressed to name a Salieri piece.<br />The play is better than I expected.  It differs from the movie \\"Amadeus\\" which I equally enjoyed.  When I recently saw \\"Amadeus\\" acted in Chicago, it put the play in another light.  Each media I have observed this story in gives me a new perspective.	2004-04-14
US	50104667	RJOB4SQRO6TR8	0312928408	478970770	The Jeffrey Dahmer Story: An American Nightmare	Books	3	54	56	N	N	Unprofessional Work!	Don Davis wanted to cash in on the public's fascination with Jeffery Dahmer.  He wrote the first and best selling book about the serial killer.  Unfortunately, it reads as if it was written by a high school student.<br />The matter-of-fact language used by Davis tries to demonstrate that he knows more than we think.  There really is nothing revolutionary about the book.  It as if he took a timeline of Dahmer's life and expanded on it with cheap metaphors.  It is cheaped further by the fact that the author keeps repeating himself each time he starts a new chapter.<br />The other reviews of this book are accurate.  It is not well written.  Many facts are present, but they are poorly presented and hidden by frivilous information.  As a result, this book has nothing to say.  There must be better works on Dahmer's life than this.	2004-04-13
US	50104667	R387JIW40ESK3R	034536676X	680934194	The World According to Garp	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Wonderful But Unlikely Story	John Irving is a very thorough and gifted storyteller.  I had familiarity with some of his previous work, but only recently discovered \\"The World According to Garp\\".  In reality, the story does not have a real life lesson or moral.  It is just an interesting and entertaining tale about a strange life.  As odd and unlikely as many of the characters may seem, one must suspend disbelief and be entertained.<br />T. S. Garp seemed to doomed to live an abnormal life.  Even the manner in which he we conceived is odd to the point where it is not believable.  Garp grows up without a father and a mother who describes herself as a \\"sexual suspect\\" because she is an unwed mother.  Garp grows to maturity at the all boys school which his life seems to revolve around.  In his childhood, his mother is a nurse.  Through his mother's life, she compiles interesting tales that compile her book.  This book makes the reluctant head of the women's liberation movement and vulnerable to radical groups like the ficticious Ellen Jamesians.  The alignment with the feminist movements leads to the eventual demise of both Garp and his mother.  Along the way, we an interesting cast of charaters.  Roberta is the best friend to Jenny Fields, Garp's mother.   However, Roberta was once known as Robert or #90.  In fact, she once played Tight End in the NFL.  Garp also becomes closely associate with Ellen James, the reluctant martyr of a feminist group who cut out their own tongues.  <br />Despite an obvious shadow cast by his mother, Garp's goal in life is to become a successful writer.  He does finish three stories.  All of these stories are included in the book.  Each of the stories give a little into Garp's character.  The first two stories are a little drab.  However, the third story is actually well done.  I almost wish I could read the actual product.  The stories written by Garp are included in the book.  My only objection to this is that they interupt the momentum of the story.<br />The book isvery well written.  I find in remarkable how thorough John Irving is in his writing.  Additionally, many parts in the book are genuinely funny.  Once I started the book, I found it hard to put down.  It is a great book for dedicated fiction readers.	2004-04-10
US	50104667	R3QE4YWH9XCNVS	0140094385	539733955	Amusing Ourselves to Death: Public Discourse in the Age of Show Business	Books	5	34	43	N	N	Turn Off Your Television and Think For Yourself	Most educated members of society have long recognized the danger of television.  The cover of this book is a powerful image to illustrate the problem.  Neil Postman takes a disturbing look at the social effects of television in &quot;Amusing Ourselves to Death&quot;.  While I may not agree with all of Postman's arguments, the book is able to make a strong statement about the dangers of television.<br />My biggest objection to the book is the way Postman chooses to introduce his agrument against the televised media.  He uses the novels &quot;1984&quot; and &quot;Brave New World&quot; as a backdrop for the his explanation of how American society become so listless and lethargic.  A major rule I learned in undergraduate English was that you can not use fiction to support an argument.  The idea in itself is absurd.  It would be like using an episode of Star Trek to rationalize what kind of car you should buy.  Once I got past this imperfection in the book, I found the author's statement to be reasonably solid.<br />The basic idea discussed in this book is that when people learned by listening to teachers who accumulated knowledge, people were better learners.  This is because the learner had to assimilate the knowledge into their brain and could ask questions to help the learning process.  The written word and later the typed word made the learner think as he/she read.  This learned a high level brain function.  Nevertheless, people were learning.  Television is a low level brain activity, which means people are less likely to learn as they watch.  Television is often the most significant teacher a child has since the mid 20th century.  Yet television's goal is not to educate but to entertain.  Even educational programs like &quot;Sesame Street&quot; are flashy and structured like a series of comercials.  It is no surprise that children are not learning in school when teachers can never be as flashy as television.<br />Postman looks at education, televangelism, and thenews media in the book.  He demonstrates how televised media has degraded each of these facets of American life.  His attention to the lack of real learning from the news is particularly disturbing.  The only time I can think of when news was not flashy and meant to be entertaining was on September 11, 2001.  This should make the reader seriously question the news programs he/she watches.  <br />While Postman lacks a real solution to the problem, I feel this is excusable when we consider television's stranglehold on society.  The only way around the problem is to be educated to know how to watch television.  <br />This is a disturbingly good read.  It will be particularly appreciated by the minority who never or rarely turn on their television because of the poisonous venom it spews.	2004-04-04
US	50104667	RTLEVG4X9H1QR	1582617627	899592054	Chair Shots and Other Obstacles: Winning Life's Wrestling Matches	Books	5	18	20	N	N	Heenan is an Entertaining Man	A self help book from a wrestler is a bit hard to swallow.  It is particularly hard to swallow when the wrestler played the role of a crook or con-artist so well.  Through his second book, we see a different side of Bobby Heenan.  While I would not call it a helpful book, it is entertaining.<br />In &quot;Chair Shots ...&quot;, Bobby Heenan uses wrestling terminology as a metaphor for life.  As a man with an eighth grade education, working for wrestling companies since his teen years, he has not written anything revolutionary in this book.  Much like his first book, there are a lot of entertaining stories and anecdotes.  I found them entertaining as a fan of old time wrestling.  For the entertainment value of the stories, the book is worth its price.<br />While I feel this book is inferior to his first book, I enjoyed reading wisdom on life from Bobby Heenan.  Few people realize that there is a human being behind the character he played.  This is an opportunity to know the character of the real Booby Heenan.  My hope for the future is that Heenan puts out a book of his best one-liners and insults from his wrestling career.  A book like that would be a must for me.	2004-04-02
US	50104667	R3PKA4C0O4NXDT	0553349295	706079592	Life and Death of Andy Warhol, The	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A Look at the Life of Andy Warhol	It would be difficult to compose a thorough biography of Andy Warhol.  There are so many dimensions to the man's career that it alone could emcompass several hundred pages.  Victor Bockris has done an excellent job of writing a concise version of Warhol's life story.<br />Bockris begins the book in the humble begins of the Warhola family.  Andy is an almost insignificant little child who is often sick and mocked bt his peers.  As a result, he becomes very attached to his mother.  This bond lasts well into his life.  <br />Andy Warhol was actually kicked out of art school for his poor performance before enrolling again after summer school.  His art took time to catch on.  His paintings, as diverse as they are in style and subject, gained him his fame.  On the other hand, the films he produced were largely unsuccessful.  While the stories behind his work seem concise, Bockris does an excellent job of recounting Warhol's career.  <br />Bockris does an admirable job of capturing the social changes and scandals that affect Andy Warhol's life.  Warhol's faint homosexuality is documented. While not being an overly sexual person, Warhol's affects on pop culture went so far to make homosexuality trendy around 1972.  The day Andy Warhol was shot is discussed with photographs.  The events of this day are told in a straight forward nature.  Warhol's tragic death is also told through the sources at the hospital and the people closest to Andy.<br />The book is a bargain as the price it sells.  For those wanting to learn more about this legendary artist, this book is ideal.	2004-03-28
US	50104667	R5Z1UJX00T3KD	0809231077	775512799	Tales from the Dugout	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Nice Book, But Nothing Revolutionary	The easiest way to write a book is to have other people tell the story while you write it down and take credit.  This is not meant to discredit the author, Mike Shannon.  However, as a lifelong baseball fan, I already heard many of these stories.   In many cases, I enjoyed reading these stories from the original source or a witness.  Additionally, many of the stories chosen for the book are just not interesting.  <br />If you like the Yankees, you will like the book.  There are plenty of Yankee stories in here.  If you hate the Yankees, this will make this a less than pleasurable read.  I particulary enjoyed reading the Marge Schott stories.  The exploits of the late Reds owner are always good for a laugh.  Many of the stories seem to be about miserly owners.  I particularly enjoyed reading about Bobby Thigpen's attempts at using poetry to get a raise.  While many of the stories are informative, they aren't very entertaining.  I was hoping to read more &quot;inside the game stories.&quot; <br />To the casual fan or even big baseball fans, many of these stories are old news.  I believe that this book is more geared toward younger readers who are learning about the game.  This is probably a book most baseball fans can live without.	2004-03-21
US	50104667	R27PY9GEZ77MKT	0802130240	557803621	Manson in His Own Words: The Shocking Confessions of 'The Most Dangerous Man Alive'	Books	4	60	65	N	N	In His Own Words	As a fan of true crime, Charles Manson has long been one of my favorite subjects.  \\"Helter Skelter\\" is perhaps the best true crime book ever written.  Having read the prosecuting attorney's view of the events, I felt it would be interesting to read Manson's version.  Keeping in mind that Manson is neither honest nor completely sane, I was able to gain a lot of insight into who Charles Manson really is.<br />The book contains admissions and other information that were not in \\"Helter Skelter\\".  This being considered, there are some serious flaws in the book.  Manson's lies are fairly obvious at times when he is contradicting the proven evidence that convicted him.  One person can lie.  But when several stories match up against that person, the lie falls apart.  <br />Perhaps the most eye-opening information in this book is in regard to Manson's childhood.  Manson details a brutal childhood in which he was neglected, abandon, and even traded for a pitcher of beer.  Manson even details the times he was raped in the youth detention center.  One has to be curious if these events really did create the leader of a muderous cult.<br />While there is little doubt that Manson is a danger to society and guilty of heinous crimes, a disturbing public fascination persists more than 30 years later.  The author, Nuel Emmons, makes the best observations in the conclusions.  While we may never know the truth or the real Charles Manson, we can certainly gain some valuable insight by reading his own words.	2004-03-18
US	50104667	RQPWVGLYF1V16	0688152457	912627051	The Life and Humor of Robin Williams: A Biography	Books	4	7	7	N	Y	A Very Vanilla Biography	It is difficult to write a biography that only goes for 200 pages unless it is the Reader's Digest version of the person's life.  Jay David essentially has written a stripped down biography of Robin Williams.  After reading the book, I feel I have only scratched the surface of this talented actor/comedian's life and talents.  <br />Much of Robin's early life is cited from previous interviews with other sources.  While this is acceptable, it makes the early part of the book seem like a \\"cut and paste\\" job.  The book journeys into his early career and family life with similar techniques.  When the book arrives at the point where Robin Williams' career really takes off, the author becomes consistent with the layout of the chapters.  The first part is how Williams came to work on the movie/project with various antidotes.  The second part of the chapters is a documentation of the critical reviews of the movie.  I felt a lot was omitted from the book.  Nothing is mentioned about his hosting Saturday Night Live.  Similary, little is mentioned of his stand-up work or Comic Relief.  I would have thought they would have included more of Robin Williams' humor in here since the book is called \\"The Life and Humor of Robin Williams\\".<br />The book does have strong points.  I did learn about Williams family and marital life.  Few people are aware that Williams came from a privilaged family background.  I also believe that the insight provided on many of the movies is well documented.  One must keep in mind that the book was printed in 1999 so it is not entirely up to date.  With this being said, fans of Williams will enjoy learning about the development of his career.  Despite being an easy read, the book has too many weak points to be enjoyed by the casual reader.	2004-03-13
US	50104667	R27R2TWRYOT13H	0425097722	570407652	Fatherhood	Books	5	1	2	N	N	&quot;Strong Families Raise Strong, Healthy Children&quot;	Even almost twenty years after the original printing, this book is still relevant and very funny.  Because I work with children daily and hope to have children of my own in a few years, I particularly enjoyed this book.<br />Bill Cosby's humor avoids the profanity laced tirades of many contemporary comics.  While maintaining a focus on the value of the family, Cosby discusses the role of a father as an often neglected role in the family.  In this book, I could see my father behaving in many of the ways Cosby describes.  The students I have today are also no different than the way he describes his children's school expereinces.  On this note, my favorite quote in the book has to do with his son not failing English so much as failing to hand in his assignments.  It is no wonder this book has sold so many copies.  Cosby's wit and insight had me laughing out loud several times.<br />While the foreword and afterword by Alvin F. Poussaint seems a bit obvious to me, it may not seem so basic to all readers.  Poussaint strips Cosby humor down to give it a scientific basis.  Poussaint supports the points made by Cosby.  He is effective in making a point in concise terms.<br />This is probably the best book I have read by a stand-up comedian.  I give Cosby the distinction as a stand-up comic because some the material in this book was in the &quot;Himself&quot; video.  Despite being labeled as humor/comedy, the book has valuable insight for fathers and parents in general.  Truly, this is a valuable book.	2004-03-10
US	50104667	R3CYNYNL5ZO1R0	1400060931	583114583	Goat: A Memoir	Books	5	6	11	N	Y	Sheep	It seems that this book has gained strong opinions in one direction or the other.  After reading multiple magazine articles on the book, my interest peaked.  Once I started the book, I had trouble putting it down.  It made me curious as to why there are bad reviews.  Could it be those with an interest in the foolishness of fraternities?<br />Brad Land captures the college years of Generation X perfectly.  The memior of his life comes off as tragic at many points.  Land is kidnapped and beated in his first years of college.  Despite being beaten and having his car stolen, he sees little sympathy.  After a transfer of colleges with his brother, Land joins his brother's fraternity only to be subject to more beatings and humiliation.  While this happens, his relationship with his brother deteriorates.  Eventually, he quits the fraternity which sees one of Land's fellow pledges die after his rejection by the fraernity.<br />Does the book seem a little depressing at times? Yes.  The reason it grabs the reader's attention is its sense of authenticity.  At times, Goat makes me think of Holden's \\"Catcher in the Rye\\" joining a fraternity.  The similarities between the characters are eerie.<br />The other major question raised in this book is about the nature of fraternities.  Much like Land, I question why somebody would subject him/herself to such humiliation to join a \\"brotherhood\\".  Realistically, what good comes from the fraternity experience?  It does prove who among the college students are merely sheep following a crowd.<br />Land's style is honest and fast paced.  He does not spend excessive time describing unnecessary stimuli to meet a page quota.  Land is a gifted storyteller and I would look forward to reading any future work.	2004-03-08
US	50104667	R238T47JAGI2CK	0375705244	406271874	Founding Brothers: The Revolutionary Generation	Books	4	0	3	N	N	Joseph Ellis and the Founding Fathers	Joseph Ellis set out to compose ground-breaking book about the Founding Fathers and their interactions.  While the idea for the book is good, the approach Ellis took to flawed.  In the historical sense, the book is very strong.  The problems is Ellis's writing begin with his addition of personal insights into history.  Applying his beliefs and psychology in this scenario just did not seem appropriate.    <br />The portions of the book I found most entertaining were the chapters on the duel between Aaron Burr and Alexander Hamilton and the chapters on the relationship between Thomas Jefferson and John Adams.  While the chapter on Adams and Jefferson are largely objective, they seem to be skewed against John Adams at times.  The other chapters seem to explore the faults of the founder's personality more than their historical significance.  It seems rather arrogant for Ellis to make some of his insinuations.  The opinion of Jefferson in this book seems low despite the fact that Ellis has devoted an entire book to him.  Additionally, while at first seeming critical of George Washington, the author changes direction.  Aside from Ben Franklin, I believe Washington is the most worshiped figure in this book.  The uneveness of the discussions and the author's seemingly baseless insights are the downfall of the book.<br />The chapter of the Burr/Hamilton may have been the strongest point of the book.  Ellis goes into the greatest depth I have ever read on the topic.  His explanations of the potential scenarios which led to Hamilton's death are well thought out.  In this and other chapters, Ellis lays out the evidence as to why Alexander Hamilton was so unpopular with his contemporaries.  His scathing prose, made me question how Hamilton could be on the twenty dollar bill.  The flaws in Burr's character and his iminent demise seem strong and well documented.<br />While I have read better accounts of the relationship between Adams and Jefferson, I am always interested in theirinteractions and complex friendship which inadvertently caused the development of a two party system and partisanism.  The accounts of their interactions is fairly strong.  I respect the fact that Ellis used portion of their letters to each other as support for his arguments.<br />I believe much of the praise for this book is exaggerated.  While I feel it has some strong points and well written sections, it does have some fundamental flaws which seem rather glaring.  In spite of the flaws, I felt it was a worth while read.	2004-03-05
US	50104667	R3OWPW5VWYNRWO	0393041239	796752632	Where Light and Shadow Meet: A Memoir	Books	2	3	7	N	N	Very Disappointing	With my interest in World War II and the Holocaust, I eagerly anticipated reading this book as a supplementary material to \\"Schindler's List\\" the movie and my other books on the subject.  While the book has its moments, it is very uneven.  It almost seems that Emilie Schindler wrote this book to spite her husband and take some credit for his work.  While I am sure she deserves more credit than she receives, the tone of the book almost seems bitter.<br />The book is short in length, almost too short for a memoir.  Emilie Schindler gives a summary of her life at each stage.  I felt that she had so much more to say at times, but held back.  Particularly, the events involving protecting Jews during the Holocaust is far too brief.  Mrs. Schindler spends more time talking about irresponsible behavior and infidelity in her marriage than I cared to read.  Since the book was released shortly after the movie was released, it seems she is trying to discredit her husband.  <br />Emilie Schindler does give some valuable insights into her life and her late husband's life that may not have been written before.  For example, little has been written of their plight after the war.  Before this book, little has been said about how Oskar left his wife after the living with her in Argentina for several years.  Also, Mrs. Schindler points out some of the flaws in the movie \\"Schindler's List\\" while still acknowledging it was a good film.<br />What ruined this book for me was the bitter tone Emilie Schindler sets.  I would rather focus on Oskar Schindler's great work than his flaws.	2004-02-29
US	50104667	R126LYNX0WQ6T9	1558176934	269201364	Chop Shop	Books	5	6	8	N	N	Disturbing!	Most people take the funeral services provided to their dearly departed for granted.  They assume that the remains of their loved one will be properly cared for.  After reading this book, I can not make that assumption any longer.<br />The Lamb Funeral Home was a part of the California landscape for generations.  When the most recent generation began working there, the business was corrupted.  The problem only begins with him cremating more than one body at once.  David Sconce sold the gold teeth and organs of bodies for profits.  In addition to this scandal, Sconce is accused of multiple assaults and murdering others in the funeral industry.  While the hot-tempered Sconce has not been convicted of murder, there are reasons to believe he is guilty of murdering the competition.<br />This is a fast-paced easy read that I had trouble putting down.  I was anticipating the ending.  My only disappointment was finding out Sconce was never convicted of murder.<br />I have stereotyped in my mind what a funeral director should look like.   Sconce does not meet that description.  As a result, I can never look at the funeral industry without wondering if an honest business is being run.	2004-02-27
US	50104667	R35KQ0UBXXJN7Q	0393312836	483124263	A Clockwork Orange	Books	5	2	4	N	N	&quot;What's it going to be then, eh?&quot;	If you have only seen the Stanley Kubrik film &quot;A Clockwork Orange&quot;, you really must read the book.  The movie only shows the first twenty chapters.  While the movie is well done, it does not tell the whole story.  In most copies of the book, all twenty-one chapters are present.  Both the movie and the book are a very insightful and alaramingly realistic satire of modern day adolescents.  What Anthony Burgess wrote in 1962 seems very realistic today.<br />While the coded language or slang used by Burgess is often hard to decode, it gets easier as you read further into the book.  Alex is a rebellous and often violent teenager.  With his gang of thugs, he rules the night with violence and theft.  The crime spree continues until Alex is arrested and convicted of murder.  At this point, we see a megalomanical government attempt to intervene by committing what we might now call a human rights violation.  Through a series of dramatic episodes, classic conditioning cures Alex of his violent tendencies.  Alex is then released into a world he is forced to rediscovered.  Many of the things he once found pleasurable are now painful.  These events nearly cause Alex's demise.  It is only through his near death that the conditioning is reversed and his mind is liberated.  With a free mind, Alex is left with the prospect of finally having to act as an adult and take on adult responsibilities.<br />The controlling government is eerily reminiscent of books such as &quot;1984&quot; and &quot;Brave New World&quot;.  If you enjoyed these books or books similar to these, I suspect you would enjoy reading &quot;A Clockwork Orange&quot;.  Even if you personally find the book unreadable, you will at least learn what a &quot;clockwork orange&quot;, the name means.	2004-02-24
US	50104667	R3JN6P3GOU9D3S	0698111362	636423385	The Life and Times of Grigorii Rasputin (BCE)	Books	2	7	9	N	N	Alex de Jonge Lacks Focus	Quite simply, this may be one the wost biographies I have ever read.  The life of Rasputin is exciting and scandalous with stories of political revolution, drinking, sex, and murder.  Alex deJonge has succeeded in making the story boring.  In wiriting this, I believe deJonge lacked focus which results in the overall story deteriorating.<br />Rasputin's life started as a simple peasant.  After a visit to a monestary, he became highly influenced by God and Christian ways. Rasputin could never actually become a monk because he was married.  He did live the life of a man of God.  As a man of great contradictions, he continues to drink heavily and live a very sexual life despite discovering religion.  Rasputin was popular with women and the Romanov family, but he had too many critics.  The scandals he caused ended up leading to the critics that murdered him.  His murder is the only part of this book that is well portrayed.<br />The books spends to much time describing the physical landscape of Russia and other extraneous material which really has no place in the book.  Based on the fact that the book is about Rasputin's life, I expected that to be the focus.  However, the author goes entire chapters without even mentioning the subject of the biography.<br />I am not sure a good biography of Rasputin exists.  Because of its lack of focus, this biography must be among the worst.  Edvard Radzinsky's biography may be a better choice despite his tendency to be verbose.	2004-02-21
US	50104667	R2SZ7FKXG9OYWL	0595259332	173965986	The Sweater Letter	Books	3	9	13	N	N	A Little Too Obvious	As a big fan of true crime, I received this book as a Christmas gift from family in the region where the murder took place.  I was afraid I would hate the book.  However, I was surpised by the fact that I found some parts of the book enjoyable.  At times, I found it to be a real page-turner despite the fact that I almost knew what would happen before it happened.  While this book may be exciting to the locals, it lacked the suspense, mystery,and tension that should go with true crime.  It almost feels like a PG version of the movie \\"Fargo\\" based on the setting.  The characters are not nearly as interesting in this book though.<br />The Sweater Letter tells the story of a dumb criminal to say the least.  Bruce Moilanen killed his wife in what appeared to be a hunting accident at first.  With the a lot of suspicious behavior and a bad alibi, he becomes the prime suspect.  After some thought and investigation, it was pretty obvious from the evidence in the first 20 pages that Bruce is guilty beyond any reasonable doubt.  The book carries on with the investigation and then the trial.  The author seems to be talking in circles at times just to meet an apparent quota of pages.  <br />While the events that took place in this incident are very unfortunate, the book is just not that entertaining.  By way of comparison to most true crime books, this book is almost too tame.  For the people in the Upper Peninsula and Wisconsin, this may be a great read because it is regional history.  For outsiders, this book may seem more like an episode of \\"Murder She Wrote\\".	2004-02-16
US	50104667	R36KMUPYK5EACI	0486296024	424288287	Common Sense (Dover Thrift Editions)	Books	5	14	16	N	Y	Rationale for a Revolution	Writing a review for this book is a lot like writing a review for The Constitution.  It seems as though there are not enough words to describe the majesty of the document.<br />Many of the founding fathers lacked the educational training that contemporary politicains have received.  With that fact in mind, Common Sense is even more potent.  Thomas Paine sought to make his fellow colonists join in rebelling against the King and the British.  His argument is based in the relative absurdity of being ruled by a king whose power is gained only because of the status of his parents.  Even the first king in succession probably only gained his power by being the most brutal ruffian in his gang of conquerers.  For those who suggest that the relationship with Britain need not be changed because &quot;it is not broke, so don't fix it&quot;, he uses a child that nurses too long from his mother as a metaphor.  Paine continues his writing with other choice prose to rationalize independence.<br />Paine's words were a biting commentary against the King.  Even today, these words maintain their potency.  No America should live without reading this book which was the reasoning for our break from Britain.	2004-02-14
US	50104667	R6202MUZM0KAZ	0806521155	959754037	Say It Ain't So, Joe!: The True Story of Shoeless Joe Jackson	Books	5	25	28	N	Y	&quot;Shoeless&quot; Joe Jackson Belongs in the Hall of Fame	Donald Gropman is the leading historian on the life of &quot;Shoeless&quot; Joe Jackson.  In his revised edition of the book, Gropman gives an objetive look at the life of Joe Jackson, including the scandal that ended his career.  Gropman's argument leaves little doubt that this legend belongs in the baseball hall of fame.  Quite simply, the hall of fame is incomplete without him.<br />The other members of the Black Sox sought to add Jackson to the fix.  Jackson never committed.  Jackson even went so far as to tell Sox owner Charles Comiskey and attempted to sit out the World Series to demonstrate his innocence.  These actions which would have exonerated him were rejected.  Comiskey just felt Jackson was hearing rumors.  When the scandal hit full force, Comiskey tried to save his players. Unfortunately, Comiskey's lawyer was only interested in saving Comiskey, not the players.  The great tragedy is that Comiskey, depite his Richard Nixon-like tactics, is in the hall of fame while &quot;Shoeless&quot; Joe Jackson is not.<br />Gropman lays out a tremendous amount of evidence that supports Jackson's innocence.  Despite this mountain of evidence and growing support for Joe Jackson's reinstatement, baseball's commissioners have largely ignored the case for Joe Jackson.<br />This book sets the standard for &quot;Shoeless&quot; Joe Jackson's life as well as the case for his reinstatement into baseball and his induction into the hall of fame.  With the additions of transcripts, letters, and other pieces of evidence, this book is more than worth its price.  Gropman also provides information for joining the Shoeless Joe Jackson Society and fighting to clear his name.  I would encourage you to join.	2004-02-13
US	50104667	R1CYP33CJX502B	0060931035	487883700	The Last Face You'll Ever See: The Culture of Death Row	Books	2	4	5	N	Y	Not The Last Book You Should Read on the Subject	Solotaroff's original idea for this book was a good idea in theory.  The book is focused on stories from Mississippi's death row, but the stories don't go anywhere.  It was about as interesting as reading the phone.<br />The book follows the life of a particular executioner and those who work around him.  The one redeeming quality of the book is detail given to the infamous execution of James Lee Gray.  A few humorous points in the book were also worth reading such as the practical jokes on inmates and testing the gas chamber out on a turtle.  These exceptions, the book is dull and depressing.  The author spends an exceptionally long time discussing details which which are unncessary.  Musing about the commute to work, what was for dinner, and other miscellaneous ramblings take away from the book. The writing also seems to focus more on the structure of the gas chamber than how it was used.  While the book does give insight as to the deteriorated condition the lives of executioners often go into, the structure of the book leaves much to be desired.  Solotaroff should have broadened his focus to include other executioners with varying and interesting stories.<br />I would discourage people from buying this book.  This view of a life working on death row is very limited and certainly would have been a better read with storyline that focuses less on one man's experience in Mississippi.	2004-02-07
US	50104667	RBGMBZZFAOMYI	0375507787	83669958	Nothing Is Impossible: Reflections on a New Life	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Inspirational Writings	Christopher Reeve's second major book is an attempt at the inspiration/self-help genre. While the book is a little unbalanced at some points, I found that Reeve is successful in communicating an inspiration message to his readers.<BR> <BR>Being two years removed from my father's life altering stroke and currently undergoing some burdens of my own, I found the book's relevance to go beyond those who are paralyzed. Reeve begins the book by reminding the reader of the preciousness of life. Reeve admits to wishing for death after his accident. But he was reminded that those close to you would rather that you be around irregarless of your condition because they love you. <br />Further chapters discuss topics including humor, mind and body relationship, and parenting in the face of a major life alterations. In his chapter on recovery, I found his discussion of stem cell research to be one of the more articulate statements on the issue that I have read. Reeve takes the time to thoughtfully write counterpoints to the arguments against the medical issue. At the same time, he respects those who area against the research for religious reasons. Also, included at the end of the book is Reeve's inspirational essay \\"The Lighthouse\\". All of the themes flow together surprisingly well. <br />The one detractor I found in \\"Nothing is Impossible\\" is the chapters on religion and faith. While I respect Reeve's beliefs and I am happy that he has God in his life, the chapters on religion seem unfocused. In his chapter titled \\"Religion\\", he spend most of the pages talking about his experiences with Scientology. Only at the end of the chapter titled \\"Faith\\" does he discuss finding the answer to his spiritual journey. While the journey is interesting, I suspect most readers thirst for solutions with Reeve as an inspiration. This omission left me believing I should the book a score more like 4 1/2 stars. <br />I found the writings of Christopher Reeve to be touching and uplifting. Aside from the one theme I discussed, Reeve does an excellent job of creating an uplifting read with the use of the changes in his life as a background story.	2004-02-07
US	50104667	RS0836844A6NW	0140177396	371714764	Of Mice and Men	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Steinbeck is a Brilliant Writer!	Being such an avid reader, even I found it hard to believe that I have never read this book.  Based on the high esteem I hold the Grapes of Wrath in, I thought I would enjoy this book.  Despite the fact that it is a short tale, it is worth the weight of many larger novels.<br />Of Mice and Men tells of the adventures of George and Lennie.  George is the brains of the outfit, that constantly finds himself getting the duo out of the trouble Lennie has created for them.  With dreams of obtaining their own land George and Lennie seek work on a new farm.  This farm seems to unlock the final door to obtaining their dream property.  Unfortunately, the death of a beautiful womam brings a new stain in their realtionship.  <br />Steinbeck is a great storyteller.  The one thing I did not like about the book is the ending.  While the ending was not necessarily a surprise, it left me hanging on for more.  While I was not really looking for a happy ending, I did not feel a real sense of closure.  Still, this book is an excellent read!	2004-02-03
US	50104667	R1MSXJ47R2JV	0671795775	753811426	Leslie Nielsen: The Naked Truth	Books	5	16	17	N	N	Neither Naked nor the Truth, But Hilarious	I love the comedies that Leslie Nielsen has made over the years including the Airplane! series and The Naked Gun series. When I saw a copy of this book at a used bookstore, it attracted my interest.  I thought it was an actual biography until I started reading through it.<br />Nielsen writes a fictitious acount of his career in The Naked Truth, and the result in very funny book.  The story sees him narrowly missing out on the legendary roles in Hollywood or finding some other way to escape notoriety.  For example, his story of being in Lawrence of Arabia as Lawrence's lover is laugh out loud funny.  His reason for not actually being in the film is because the scene ended up on the editing room floor.  There are numerous movie stories like this throughout the book.  Nielsen also discusses his influence on other entertainers including Elvis and James Dean.  The tall tales don't stop at his love life, as Nielsen discusses all of his wives and lovers.  <br />There are plenty of puns, wise cracks, and one-liners as we have come to expect from Nielsen in this book.  I completely enjoyed reading this book.  Despite the fact that this book is over ten years old, it is still a treasure for fans of Nielsen.	2004-02-01
US	50104667	R1HA9PABYRPI9S	0761122745	517932958	Non Campus Mentis: World History According to College Students	Books	5	2	3	N	Y	Funny, Yet Kind of Sad	As a social studies teacher, I thought I would find a great deal of enjoyment in this book.  Many of the errors of college students I read in this book are similar to mistakes I have seen my students make.  The unfortunate part about this book is that it is a little depressing to see how unmotivated some people are to learn.  This does not make it bad to get a laugh at the expense these unmotivated adolescents.  I can't help but be curious if some of President Bush's college papers made this book.<br />The preview of the book gives some excellent hints at the funny parts of the book.  Some are hilarious, but some are not so humorous.  The sections about World War II and religion are particularly amusing.  This book would make a great gift for the history buff or teacher in your life.  I know my copy has become quite a conversation piece.	2004-01-30
US	50104667	R2HBN2MMTG4QDI	0440204399	458864358	Catch-22	Books	5	2	5	N	N	Literary Genius	I was assigned this book in high school and did not finish it with about 100 pages left.  About 10 years later, I recently picked up the book again to finish a book I have been wanting to finish.  I was not disappointed.  Joseph Heller is a skilled story teller whose pen is well adept to writing satire.  Many of the humorous points of this book I was not ready to appreciate as a high school senior.  Years later, I found myself laughing out at many lines in this book.<br />The book tells the story of Yossarian, a disgruntled World War II pilot.  Yossarian wants nothing more than to go home from the war after his mission quota is satisfied.  Unfortunately, his mission quota is raised each time he gets close to meeting it.  Along the way, we meet a cast of unique characters.  It makes me curious as to where Heller came up with the idea for all these characters.  Lieutenant Scheisskopf and Major Major Major Major are two of my favorite characters in the book.  Their stories in addition to the idiosyncrasies are wonderfully written.  The book ends with Yossarian faced with a paradox of choices based on the development of the character.  It is worth reading the book to find out the ending.<br />This book is a literary classic.  I hate to give too many points of the plot away in the review as I would hope the sharp turns in the plot can surpise other readers the way they surprised me.  Truly, this is a great book for those with an eye for wit.	2004-01-28
US	50104667	R2AA98J97Z11PP	0811837939	464987657	I, Me, Mine	Books	4	4	4	N	N	George at a Glance	With George's passing in 2001, I was under the impression that his memoirs would be revamped.  Unfortunately this is not the case.  I Me Mine is still the standard bearing book about the &quot;Quiet Beatle&quot;.  Although the &quot;Quiet Beatle&quot; remains quiet even in his memoirs.<br />The introduction written by his wife Oliva is a nice touch to this book.  George's last touch to this book was made while John Lennon was still alive. In the book, George gives us a glance into his upper-middle class childhood as well as his early days as a musician.  The reader also sees a very concise version of the development of the Beatles.  Then, the book seems to leap into the break up of the band.  George does spend a significant portion of his memoirs of his life with the Beatles discussing his religious development.  The 77 pages of memoirs are concluded with George discussing his hobbies such as gardening and racing.<br />The remainder of the book is photographs and explanations the songs he wrote for the Beatles and his solo work pre-1980's.  The song explanations are interesting for people who are true George Harrison fans.  In regard to the photographs, some of the captions are a reflection of George's great sense of humor.<br />While I think this is a beautiful book with great artwork that gives a great deal of insight into who George Harrison was, I can only hope a quality, thorough biography of George Harrison will be written.	2004-01-19
US	50104667	R3DAQ3MHLLPZYX	0878332715	676225553	Nitschke: The Ray Nitschke Story	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Nitschke is Football	Ray Nitschke is a symbol of a football era that has passed.  He played the game for enjoyment not for money.  Unlike current players, he was grateful to the fans and never passes up an autograph seeker.  Truly, there will never be another Ray Nitschke.<br />Edward Gruver began putting this biography together before Nitschke's death.  Much of the information was gained in interviews with Nitschke.  Because many of the stories are in his own words, it lends authenticity to the story.  Gruver interviewed teammates and opponents to get their perspective of Nitschke.  The result is the best rounded biography of the man who is arguably the best middle linebacker in NFL history.<br />Aside from the stories of his playing days, the book also looks at Ray Nitschke the man.  He lived through a rough childhood to become an unlikely recipient of a scholarship to Illinois.  Although he dreamed of playing for the Bears, he made Green Bay his home only a few seasons after he was drafted.  After getting married, Nitschke changed from a rough bar room brawler to a family man.  His nasty on-field persona was left on the field.  Nitschke was involved in numuerous charities.  However, his family came first.<br />Nitschke is an easy read, that is historically accurate and well written.  My one objection to the book is my feeling that some of the stories could have been expanded up further.  Nevertheless, this is an excellent read for Packer fans.	2004-01-18
US	50104667	RHTELJ459QS62	0195169115	930709046	Thomas Jefferson	Books	5	11	14	N	N	A Concise Biography of A Founding Father	R.B. Bernstein set out to write a concise biography of a man who may be the most influential American ever.  While a concise biography will no doubt omit some facts, Bernstein tells the important facts of the Thomas Jefferson story with commendable skill.  Additionally, most biographies tend to be dry reading material.  I found this particular biography to be a real page turner.<br />Thomas Jefferson is best known for his interest in philosophy and issues of individual rights.  He is credited with having significant influence in the writing of the early documents in American history.  Most specifically, he is given credit for the Declaration of Independence and the addition of the Bill of Rights to the Constitution.  Because of Jefferson's importance in politics, Bernstein acknowledges all of the positive and negative highlights of his political career.  Much of the mudslinging discussed in the book is reminiscent of contemporary politics.<br />However, there is much more to the reluctant 3rd President.  Bernstein paints picture of a man who hated the bickering nature of politics, preferring the his time to his studies and writing while managing his plantation in Virginia.  His obsession was the legendary Monticello, which he designed and continually redesigned.<br />Bernstein pays little attention to Jefferson's relationship to Sally Hemings except in the epilogue.  While some may argue that this omission detracts from the quality of the book, I would disagree.  Bernstein chooses to focus on the man and politician rather than his sexual escapades.  Even when his seemingly conflicting views of slavery are brought into focus, these facts are not essential to the Jefferson story.  When his concern for human rights is put into focus, any discrepancies in his views are only a reflection of his era.  <br />All of the essential facts of Jefferson are discussed in this handsome book.  I would highly recommend this book either as a reference book for school papers or a leisurely read about the life of a truly great American.	2004-01-11
US	50104667	R1ZFP6ETTZWM5N	0253325560	612400449	Dillinger: The Untold Story	Books	4	18	18	N	N	The Original Public Enemy #1	The bank robbing spree of John Dilliniger is the work of legends.  Never has a single criminal been so intensely targeted by the government.  Amid the corruption of Northwest Indiana that allowed Dillinger to break free from jail and prosper, many stories were created.  G. Russel Girardin and William J. Helmer attempt to sort the facts in \\"Dillinger\\".  <br />The stories of Dillinger are told chronologically based on the facts known at the time Girardin wrote his manuscript.  His storytelling is reasonably accurate and entertaining.  It follows Dillinger from his youth to the dissolution of his gang after his death.  The one objection I have with this book is Helmer's addition.  Rather than add new information to Girardin original manuscript, Helmer chooses to tack on additional information at the end of the book in the form of end notes.  Obviously, the flow of the reader's continuity is interupted.<br />Overall, I enjoyed the book and would recommend it to those who are interested in Dillinger.  The world may never know the whole truth, but the most accepted version of the truth is here.	2004-01-03
US	50104667	R3EJSX04KYCB13	0679751319	190478568	Dead Man Walking: The Eyewitness Account Of The Death Penalty That Sparked a National Debate	Books	5	12	18	N	Y	Capital Punishment	Up until recently, I had taken an indifferent view on capital punishment.  I never believed the government should have the power to execute people when the government is far from perfect.  Additionally, I never believed I should waste my time saving monsters from death when it is an unpopular view.  As a result, I never held a strong opinion on the death penalty.<br />Sister Helen Prejean is a Catholic nun. Stereotypically speaking, I assumed this book would be very one sided based on her religious association.  I took an interest in the book only after I saw the movie.  The movie combines the two executions discussed in the book into one death row inmate story.  Despite the fact that the book can seem redundant at times, Sister Helen Prejean does an effective job of exploring the topic of capital punishment through the role of a spiritual advisor.<br />The research that went into this book is startling.  I was not expecting research on this level because the book was written by a nun.  It may be hard to feel sympathy for the two death row inmates in the book.  However, it is hard to ignore the inequalities in the capital punishment system.  After reading the book, one comes to the conclusion that poor African-Americans in the &quot;Death Belt&quot; are most likely to be executed.  Crimes against whites are far more likely to draw capital punishment as well.  Defense for death row inmates is inadequate because of the socioeconomic status.  These flaws are just the tip of the iceberg.<br />When we consider the recent flaws found in capital punishment system, it is difficult to support it.  For example, Illinois changed the sentences of all death row inmates upon realizing the flaws in the system.  Our government is far from perfect.  Based on the flaws and corruptions in the system, it is difficult to support a system in which the government orders a sanctioned killing of a human being.  There is also another view that goes unnoticed.  Often it is the executioners who are most traumatized by the execution, not the government.<br />This book has changed my view on capital punishment.  This change is not because I feel sympathy for murderers, but becuase the system is very flawed.  Sister Helen Prejean makes this very obvious in her book.	2003-12-27
US	50104667	R11NTGGG3FG786	0452270782	437247880	Charlie Chaplin: My Autobiography	Books	5	51	55	N	N	In His Own Words	While the movie Chaplin is very well done, no person can tell a story like they can tell there own.  Based on this, I chose to read the book written by the cinematic legend himself.  While there are some discrepencies between the book and movie, books have an ability to make details evident that movies can not make evident.<br /><br />The book spends a considerable amount of time in his early life.  Chaplin struggled with a rarely present father and a mentally ill mother. It was through this poverty that he followed the chosen career path of his parents in the theatre.  The theatre would would lead him to America where he would begin working in the new film industry.  Through this industry he made classic films that continue to influence modern cinema despite their age.  When Chaplin made a film, it had something to say.  It was art that spoke to the human soul with humor, love, and hope.  His films were not merely a way to make money.<br /><br />Aside from his work in films, Chaplin was a humanitarian.  He supported America in times of war depite not being a citizen.  Chaplin never forgot his roots, making him empathetic to the needs of the less fortunate.  This trait led to the revoking of his residency when he spoke of openly of opening a second front in Russia during World War II.  It was through this stance that he was labeled a \\"communist\\".  In spite of these attacks led by J. Edgar Hoover, Chaplin rarely mentions Hoover in his book.  Nor does he harbor ill will toward America.  It is a travesty that this film legend and humanitarian was treated so poorly by the American government in his later years.<br /><br />The book ends shortly after Chaplin has settled in to his new life in Switzerland.  With his new life, Chaplin has a positive outlook.  One has to wonder what might have been if Chaplin finished his life in America.  Surely he was capable of creating more great work.  However, sometimes a man's greatest work and pleasure is his family.	2003-12-23
US	50104667	R3K6IUAAH7VZG5	0525947736	957192747	The Darwin Awards III: Survival of the Fittest	Books	4	9	10	N	Y	The Well is Drying Up	I loved the first edition of the Darwin Awards, but was a little disappointed by the second edition.  The third edition continues the trend.  I realize it may be tough to find enough stupid dead people that can be funny, but some of the stories should have never made the cut.<br />There are a set of rules for being awarded a Darwin Award.  I have difficulty understanding how one particular entry made the book as a winner based on the standard.  Did somebody forget to proofread?<br />While I liked the &quot;not a Darwin Award&quot; Chapter in the second edition, none of the stories were as entertaining this time.<br />It is my hope that this is the last edition of the Darwin will be the last or a long time passes between the third and fourth books.  This way some really funny material can be collected.	2003-12-18
US	50104667	R1ZCTQ3E0IA28Q	0743255755	212319343	Had Enough?: A Handbook for Fighting Back	Books	5	30	34	N	N	A Liberal with Solutions	The Democratic party seems to be going in circles.  It knows something is very wrong with the Bush administration, but it is afraid to speak up.  It this book, not only does Carville speak out against Bush, but he also gives solutions to the problems.<br />The rest of the world hates Americans right now.  They hate us with good reason.  Carville discusses these reasons such as specific treaties Bush has backed America out of.  Carville gives ideas on how to mend these broken fences. <br />Carville takes a similar cause-solution approach to the environment, unemployment, economy, education, Iraq, Social Security, and other problems.  Some of his ideas like an SUV tax would never gain popularity.  Other ideas proposed by Carville are very relevant solutions.<br />As an educator, I particularly appreciate his chapter on education.  Bush is ruining our schools.  Most politicians think they are experts on schools just because they graduated.  Unfortunately, these politicians are very wrong.  Carville explores the very real problems of our schools, using credible sources for his information.  The problem is not bad teachers as a lack of funding caused by cuts to education and increased standardized testing.  Our children are not learning when they are constantly being tested!<br />If you are not afraid of the truth, this book should be enjoyable for you.  It is another liberal/progressive masterpiece from James Carville.	2003-12-16
US	50104667	R2ODWESV3ZF048	0312978901	59814438	Born Evil: A True Story of Cannibalism and Serial Murder	Books	4	8	10	N	N	Born Pretty Evil, But Not the Most Evil	By chance, I picked up a copy of this book recently.  I was intrigued by the statement on the backcover which states that Hadden Clark used parts of his victims as fish bait.  Being largely unfamiliar with his story, I thought I would enjoy the book.<br />The book is written well in the chronological order that best fits true crime.  An epilogue details the events after the trial in which Clark reveals more vicitms.  Because only two victims are discussed substantially in the book, it is a little short.  Hadden Clark was only convicted of these two murders.  The profile of Hadden Clark is what makes the book interesting.  Hadden Clark has multiple personalities.  One of these personalities is a woman which forces him to cross dress.  Interestingly enough, the female personality is the one that knows the location of bodies.  Thus, police had to escort a cross dressed man into the woods to locate bodies.  This must have been quite a spectacle.  <br />My biggest objection to this book is in the chapters in which the interrogations are discussed as it carries on too long.  The author would have been best served to say that the investigators berated Clark, but all he would say is &quot;I want my lawyer.&quot;  <br />The book is titled &quot;Born Evil&quot;, but I don't see Hadden Clark as being as Evil as many killers I have read about.  The fact that he has multiple conflicting personalities makes him unique in the serial killer community not his evilness.  However, the reader must keep in mind that his psychological problem is not an excuse for his crimes.  <br />This is an interesting book for those just beginning to read true crime or a unique killer for veteran true crime readers to learn about.  However, it is certainly not the scariest book.	2003-12-07
US	50104667	R3HM3GCGPGXO77	0375713719	129991609	Nigger: The Strange Career of a Troublesome Word	Books	4	2	5	N	N	Thought Provoking	Randall Kennedy had a brilliant idea for a book.  Unfortunately, the subject may be too complex for any mortal man to tackle in a reasonable amount of pages.  Kennedy does open some eyes and has created some dialogue in regard to his subject, but the book will leave most readers with some unanswered questions.  <br />Kennedy discusses many facets of this controversial word in his thought provoking book.  After discussing the history of the word, he looks at its use in pop culture, law cases, as well as its overstigmatizing effect.  Kennedy succeeds in stating these facts in a reasonably fair and balanced way.  In large part, he avoids over-stating his opinion as part of the explanation.<br />While Kennedy proposes no direct solution to the problems created by this word, it is difficult to criticize him when any possible solution has its flaws.  He does manage to create a long overdue dialogue on the subject.  The cautions which can be drawn from this dialogue include being cautious of the context of the word and overstigmatizing those who use the word.  <br />The fact that such a book exists demonstrates a deeper cultural understanding and defining of the word is being sought.  This makes Kennedy's final product very credible.	2003-11-30
US	50104667	R1D9Q4BIL9TLFJ	014014773X	852411699	The Things They Carried (Contemporary American Fiction)	Books	5	8	9	N	N	A Look into the Soul of a Soldier	Many of those who have reviewed this book have missed the point.  Yes, the stories are disjointed and out of order.  Yes, the author leaves doubt as to whether some of the stories are truth or fiction.  But just as fisherman tell tall tales, they also tell us what the seas are like.  Through this book, we get an idea of what it was like to be one of the guys fighting in Vietnam.<br />Vietnam was a different kind of war on many fronts.  It was a very brutal war in which many soldiers were unable to understand why they were even fighting.  Tim O'Brien is the storyteller of his times in Vietnam.  He is haunted by the images he sees in Vietnam.  These images, in conjunction with the images of his past, haunt him in the present.<br />O'Brien leaves the reader a little disoriented with his related but unorganized stories until the last few pages.  In his conclusion, he admits that his storytelling is his mechanism for coping with his past.  By coping with his past, he allows his friends who have already passed to remain a part of him.<br />While most books on war focus on the battles of a war or the poltical aspects of the conflict, this books focuses of the human beings who were troubled by fighting this ambiguous war.  For this insight, O'Brien should be comended.	2003-11-29
US	50104667	R30TD6N44E27SK	0553560255	604011280	The Crime of the Century	Books	5	11	12	N	Y	Frightening!	First of all, I find it hard to believe that this book is out of print.  I must assume that it did not sell well in its original print.  Because of the circumstances surrounding this case, it is truly frightening.<br />Richard Speck entered the townhouse at 2319 100th Street in Chicago and murdered eight innocent nurses in cold blood.  Because of an apparent lack of motive, the crime sent shockwaves across the country.  Speck was a drifter that was harmless until he had some booze in his belly and a knife in his pocket.  Most people that knew him suggested he was harmless when sober.  <br />After killing the nurses, ran from the police as well as his crimes.  He attempted the ultimate escape in attempting suicide.  His attempt was a failure.  Once he realized that he left a living witness to his crimes, he realized he would soon be caught if he stayed in Chicago.  He could not get out of Chicago quick enough.<br />The only thing that saved Speck from execution was the Supreme Court ruling several hundred death row inmates were to be set free from death row on a techincality.  <br />Having worked very near the site of his murders for three years, I was intrigued by his story.  Kids would often say they get chills just passing the house.  These kids obviously were not even alive at the time of Speck's rampage.  This shows Speck's impact on Chicago and America.  The most frightening killer is the one that kills for no apparent reason.	2003-11-24
US	50104667	R36EJ8Q4WUTZK2	0137838522	983630051	Run to Daylight!	Books	5	8	9	N	N	A Week in the Life of Vince Lombardi	This book is mandatory reading for football fans, particularly fan of the Green Bay Packers.  Some of the ideas about this book are misleading.  However, it is still a great read.  <br />This book is not a biography of Lombardi or a guide on how to coach football.  This book does give readers insight as to what it was like for Lombardi during his coaching tenure.  Based on technology alone, there are great differences now.  The readers get to see all of Lombardi's preparation for the mystery opponent in silver uniforms.  <br />Several of Lombardi's famous quotes are included.  Lombardi also discusses specifc intereactions with players as well as a number of interesting stories about various players.  Despite his tough exterior, he genuinely cares about his players.  When the book arrives at game day, you get to see the game form Lombardi's perspective.  It is a real treat for football fans.  <br />If you have read other books about the Packers during this era, you are not likley to learn many new facts.  Many of the facts in here are credited as a primary source in other books.  However, you do get to see Packer football from a new perspective.	2003-11-13
US	50104667	R78N739KG7FG9	1858688493	805265921	Another Brick In The Wall	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Mandatory Floyd!	All Pink Floyd fans must have this book.  It is that simple.  Through interviews and research, Cliff Jones documents the stories behind the songs that made Pink Floyd one of the most influencial bands in rock history.  Though this book, readers will know what even the most obscure Pink Floyd song is about.<br />With over 200 pictures, the book is worth the price alone.  Even the most dedicated fans can learn something from this book.  While some of the stories behind the songs are well documented, such as the story behind &quot;Wish You Were Here&quot;, other stories are not nearly as well known.  Particularly, the information about the three most recent Pink Floyd cd's is documented sparingly.  Jones addresses these Floyd releases appropriately.  <br />I particularly enjoyed reading about the early Floyd releases.  It is difficult to find quality information about the pre-Dark Side of the Moon releases. Cliff Jones effectively tells the stories behind the music of Pink FLoyd.	2003-11-11
US	50104667	R35TZ2DLFQ9LOL	0380804794	621373670	Monty Python Speaks	Books	5	6	6	N	Y	Python at a Glance	While this book will not reveal anything earth-shattering to the average Python fan, it is a fun and witty look at one of the most influencial comedy teams ever.  As a fan of Python fan, I really enjoyed it.<br />The five surviving members of Python and the partner of the late Graham Chapman were interviewed on a variety of topics including the origins of Python, writing the shows, making the movies, and the disbanding of the Pythons.  David Morgan also catches up with the surviving members of Monty Python at their most recent reunion in 1999.  The retorts to the questions are the informative yet witty replies you would expect from these comic legends.  <br />The book gives a solid history of Monty Python in the words of the men themselves.  Readers get an excellent idea of what was going on behind the scenes.  Everything is discussed including the parrot sketch.	2003-11-10
US	50104667	R349P8KEBO4O0P	0385479549	311985081	Stalin: The First In-depth Biography Based on Explosive New Documents from Russia's Secret Archives	Books	4	2	3	N	N	The Soviet Union's Man of Steel	Joseph Stalin was the man America feared most after the demise of Hitler.  Edvard Radzinsky gives us an indepth look at the life of Stalin.  Many of the revelaions of this book were interesting and at times, hard to swallow.  This is truly a great look at Stalin's life.<br />Radzinsky begins the book in Stalin's childhood.  Much of his childhood is mysterious because his parents's may not be truly known in addition to the fact that Stalin altered his birthday.  Stalin evolves from studying for a life in the ministry to following the radical beliefs of Lenin.  With Stalin following close behind, Lenin would create a government that was based on the ideas of Karl Marx, but more closely resembled a facist regime.  After Lenin's death, Stalin would become the leader of the Soviet Government.  During his tenure, he would kill more Russians than any Russian War.  He would murder his enimies and murder his allies once he suspected a threat of discontent.  He even ordered his own son to be murdered once he suspected his son betrayed his country.  The book also discusses the belief that Stalin murdered his second wife.  <br />Radzinsky spent too little time discussing Stalin's effects on World War II.  The author does discuss Stalin's support for Hitler in the hope that Hitler might spur the revolution that would end capitalism.  There is little time spent on Stalin's relationship with Roosevelt and Churchill.  This disappointed me.  <br />The circumstances of Stalin's death are discussed at length.  The suggested cause of Stalin's death is murder.  Khrushchev is the most likely perpetrator based on the evidence.  What is unknown is the circumstances that let up to Stalin's demise.  Did a brain hemorrhage in Stalin cause Khrushchev to take measures to end Stalin more quickly?  Was Khrushchev just trying to prevent Stalin's attempts at a Soviet war against Soviet Jews?  These matters are discussed at length.<br />The only problem I had with the book is Radzinsky's tendancy toleave his topic.  He goes for pages discussing important matters in Russian History which do not directly involve Stalin.  This is a tendancy in all of Radzinsky's books based on the reviews I have read.	2003-10-31
US	50104667	RYVAOB6AAGFD0	0671682296	412494685	Beatlesongs	Books	5	6	6	N	N	A Closer Look at the Songs	I realize I am in the minority, but I hated the Beatles Anthology Cd sets.  The little music on the cd's was not worth the price.  In contrast, this book is worth every penny for Beatles fans as it gives the reader a new look at the songs.<br />Dowlding takes a look at each Beatle song in this book and explains the authorship, meaning of the song, where it was recorded, quotes about the songs, as well as other miscellaneous information.  I picked this book up several times at a book store.  After reading through the book so many times in the store, I had to purchase and read the whole book.  I was not disappointed.  <br />While the book is not written in s story format, it is an easy read.  You can skip around to your favorite Beatles songs and not miss a thing.  I suggest reading the story behind &quot;Octopus's Garden&quot;.  It is a very interesting story as are many of the other stories.	2003-10-27
US	50104667	R267P32LPVDHNV	0525946233	895595530	The Darwin Awards II: Unnatural Selection	Books	4	4	4	N	Y	Not As Good as the First	The Second Edition of Darwin Awards is not nearly as funny as the first.  It is usually the case that the sequel is a bit of a let down.  This book is appropriate for its use, a book from which you can read a few pages each day.<br />A good addition to this book is the &quot;Not A Darwin Award&quot; Chapter in which the author shows stories which were unable to receive a Darwin Award for various reason.  If nothing else, this demonstrates the logic behind the awards.  The book has many entertaining stories which demonstrate that there are a lot of stupid people in the world.  It is all the more reason for the intelligent ones like us to be careful.  <br />My strongest objection to this book was chapter of recycled classic stories from the first edition.  I would prefer to read new stories rather than ones I have already read.  If somebody has not ready those stories, they really should buy the first edition.  The second edition is also worth the price.	2003-10-25
US	50104667	R2L7957JL84SO8	0879519304	957134858	Never the Sinner	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	"Hate the Sin, Never the Sinner"	After reading this play, I must question why there has not been an attempt to bring this work into the mainstream theatre or even movies.  Despite Logan's modesty, this is a compelling and well written work about one of the most shocking crimes in history.<br />Nathan Leopold and Richard Loeb were teenage millionaires that had everything.  Both men were highly intelligent college students with a lot of potential.  They believed they were such \\"Ubermensch\\" or supermen that they could get away with anything, even murder.  In the end, they realize that they are not superman, but flawed individuals.  <br />Throughout the development of this play we see the shift in the power of their relationship which is based on a \\"Homosexual Pact\\".  While Loeb originally is dominant in the relationship, Leopold seems to take the lead once they are on trial.  Perhaps this is due to Loeb coming to the realization that he is not a superman. This \\"love story\\" is based on fact and gives us some insight into how these young minds that went sour.  However, we will never know the full story. <br />Clarence Darrow is documented in the writting.  His character's beliefs are a reflection of what history has recorded about Darrow.  He was a fiesty and wise lawyer that opposed the death penalty.  Truly, he is a role model for contemporary lawyers.<br />This book is an excellent read for a short car trip or plane flight.  It is short, but very entertaining and gets to the point.	2003-10-15
US	50104667	RZOYNDG7PI3C3	0609608444	517121775	The Devil in the White City:  Murder, Magic, and Madness at the Fair That Changed America	Books	5	4	5	N	N	A Brilliant Sample of Turn of the Century Chicago	Erik Larson has truly written a brilliant book with Devil in the White City.  Larson combines the story of the 1893 World's Fair with a background story of serial killer Herman Mudgett/H. H. Holmes.  While the book starts a little slow, it ends up being a fast pace and informative read.<br />Daniel Burnham is faced with a difficult task.  He must put together the Chicago World's Fair together in a period of time that is too short for most reasonable men.  However, we see Burnham not only opening the fair on time, but making a successful fair with the opening of the White City.  The fair draws record crowds and produces many interesting stories. <br />Many historical figures make an appearance at the fair including a young Frank Lloyd Wright, the father of Walt Disney, Susan B. Anthony, Wild Bill Cody, and Thomas Edison.  Some of the fairs products are still used today including spreaded wheat, Craker Jack, and the Ferris Wheel.  <br />The book also discuss H. H. Holmes and his castle of horrors.  Homles came to Chicago with nothing.  He took over a pharmacy and ended up building his castle/motel which served as the place where he killed possibly as many as 200 women.  The building was destroyed in a fire, but enough evidence remained to catch Holmes.  Through a failed insurance scam.  Holmes was brought to justice.  <br />As a Chicagoan, I enjoyed this book tremendously.  As a fan of the true crime, I found the story to be even more compelling.  I highly recommend this book.  Quite possibly, this is the best book I have read in years.	2003-10-14
US	50104667	RGFNS1PWU2IJS	0399149325	994558302	Portrait of a Killer: Jack the Ripper--Case Closed	Books	1	8	12	N	N	Jack the Ripper - ONE woman's theories	This book was suggested to me by a friend who is a fan of Patricia Cornwell.   Realizing that I am a fan of true crime, she thought I would enjoy this book.  While I finish every book I read, I could not bring myself to finish this book.  I thought it was terrible.<br />First off, Cornwell uses the word maybe so liberally that its usage in itself challenges her credibilty.  At times, she seems to be throwing theories around as if she is throwing spaghetti against the wall to see if it will stick.  Cornwell spends nearly 15 pages describing the potential abnormailities of her suspect's penis.  She spends pages throwing around these possibilties.  This is not the type of reading I want to unwind to in the evening.  All of her theories are based on circumstancial evidence.  Realistically, a mildly compelling case can be made for almost anybody living in London during this time.  The identity of Jack the Ripper will probably never be known.  In this book, Patricia Cornwell has written some amateur caliber fiction, but she certainly has not brought us any closer to knowing Jack the Ripper's identity.	2003-10-13
US	50104667	R3UKWZ37KBI3TL	0140481346	826622434	Death of a Salesman (Penguin Plays)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A Classic	I first fell in love with the work of Arthur Miller while I was doing my undergraduate studies several years ago.  &quot;Death of a Salesman&quot; was among the assigned readings.  I instantly fell in love with the story and wrote a paper about it.  When I recently saw a used copy of &quot;Death of a Salesman&quot; for fifty cents, I seized the opportunity to enjoy this work again.<br />The main character, Willy Loman faces a hopeless situation.  He receives no sense of fulfillment from his job, his sons are disappointments, and he is haunted my the missed opportunities of his life.  The only opportunity to save Willy from his demise seems to be the poteantial of his sons to become successful.  While their failure seems eminent, Willy sees hope in their attempts.  When the sons attempts at success prove futile, it leads to Willy's demise.<br />Any person who feels underappreciated in life can empathize with Willy Loman.  Statements that Arthur Miller made about the American landscape then are still applicable today.  Some people would rather not succeed in life as long as they can enjoy themselves.  Our missed opprtunities can haunt us for the rest of our lives.  But Miller's loudest statement is that in spite of your work and dedication to others, it is possible that nobody will go your funeral.  A sad but true statement about a fast paced society.	2003-10-13
US	50104667	R3MMESSELLIY8D	0312952856	297967868	Killer Cults: Shocking True Stories of the Most Dangerous Cults In History	Books	4	13	13	N	N	A Sampler Platter	This book is just what the title of my book review suggests, a sample of various cults in recent history.  While the book is good at giving basic information about the cults, it lacks the details true crimes fans like myself enjoy.<br />James J. Boyle discusses 11 recent cults in his book.  These groups include: Charles Manson and his family, Jim Jones,  Gordon Kahl and his militia, Hare Krisna leader Kirtanananda Swami Bhakipada, John Africa and MOVE, Jeffery Lundgren and his Mormon movement, Mexico's El Padrino, Yahweh Ben Yahweh, Roch Theriault and his experimental surgeries of live members of his group, David Koresh and the Branch Davidians, and the environmentalist group known as &quot;cirlcle of fire&quot;.  In his synopsis of each of these groups he does give some good information.  Some of the information I had not read in other sources.  For example, the book states Charles Manson's favorite pick up line.  This is not mentioned in &quot;Helter Skelter&quot;.  Nor is it mentioned in the book &quot;Helter Skelter&quot; that &quot;Helter Skelter&quot;, the Beatles songs was named for a roller coaster in England.  However, examples of these types of details are few and far between.  Having never heard of El Padrino, I found it particularly interesting.  Boyle sites books which give a more detailed accounts of each of the cults. This can add to your research in any particular story interests you.  The few pictures also add to the presentation. <br />This book sets out to give the reader a sample of cults.  It is successful  in doing this.  More interested readers will be able to find more detailed accounts of each story in the original sources.	2003-10-09
US	50104667	R33VNQIPTOB9N7	0070195994	759691910	Bill Veeck: A Baseball Legend	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A Baseball Legend	Baseball fans loved Bill Veeck.  The other baseball owners were not very fond of him.  One must keep in mind that the fans pay the bills in baseball.  As a result, Veeck is an important man in the history of baseball.   Gerald Eskenazi takes on the task of documenting the life of the baseball legend.  While his writing is redundant at times, he gives an effective overview of Veeck's life.<br />Veeck is known as the man who sent a midget up to bat for the St. Louis Browns.  He is credited as the innovator of the exploding scoreboard that shoots fireworks after a homerun.  It was during his second ownership of the White Sox that Disco Demolition Night occurred.  Veeck also had several other promotions for the common man.  All of these incidents are documented in the book.  In addition, the book discusses Veeck bringing in the second African-American baseball player, Lary Doby.  Doby would also become the second black manager in baseball for Veeck.  He also brought in the first African-American pitcher, the aging Satchell Paige for several tenures.  Eskenazi discusses these and other incidents during his successful tenures as the owner of the Indians, Browns, and White Sox.  Other little known facts are discussed such as how Veeck almost had a hand in moving the White Sox to Denver.<br />I found this book to be informative and not nearly as over the top as some of the stories Veeck would like us to believe about him.  For example, he failed as a father to the children of his first marriage.  Obviously, this is something he did not talk about a lot.  Because Eskanazi has little reason to exaggerate or obscure the story, it has a level of authenticity.  This out of print book is worth reading for old school baseball fans.	2003-09-20
US	50104667	RFV1F2LA00TPM	0517330806	868768683	Cruel Shoes	Books	4	19	20	N	N	A Comic's Classic	Cruel Shoes is Steve Martin's masterpiece book.  While some of the passages seem to make little to no sense, other passages are laugh-out-loud brilliant.  <br />The best passages in the this book are &quot;Cruel Shoes&quot; and &quot;The Diarrhea Gardens of El Camino Real&quot;.  These passages poke fun at women's desire for shoes and environmentalists with the wrong idea.  Other classics include &quot;The Turds&quot;, &quot;Wrong Number&quot;, and &quot;Comedy Events You Can Do&quot;. &quot;The Last Thing on My Mind&quot; is the kind of thought prvoking comedy that is the trademark of George Carlin.  &quot;Society in Aspen&quot;  also has its moments including naming Jesus as a frequent horse shoe player.  <br />The only soft spot in the book is the poetry.  I am not sure where Martin was going with it, but it really does not work.  Also many of the pages are pictures which seems somewhat wasteful when the pictures are poor quality.  <br />With all of the classic humor in the book, there is no reason it should be out of print.  It is a bargain at the available used prices.	2003-09-20
US	50104667	R3GB0CYD01ECDJ	0375727752	168722923	Honky	Books	5	2	3	N	Y	An Insightful Book	Dalton Conley did not just write this book, he lived this book.  The sociology professor tells the amusing story of his childhood in a section of New York's low income housing as the only white family in his building.<br />Conley does an excellent job restating the era in which he grew up.  He acurately states the fashions and music of the time.  This alone is very amusing.  However, his experiences are an excellent sociological barometer.  Because of his skin color, he becomes the outcast in many situations.  He develops friendship in spite of his color.  He also experiences many of the problems in low income housing including being robbed, having a friend shot, and being held at knife point.  His stories are set to the background of his hippy parents who located in the neighborhood to help their lives as artists.  This story makes excellent fiction, but it actually happened.<br />The book is an easy read.  I had trouble putting the book down as I found it so interesting.  Regardless of your skin color, this book has a lot of valuable insights.	2003-09-15
US	50104667	R1L6FISB1ZZ6IY	0525947647	857217799	Lies and the Lying Liars Who Tell Them	Books	5	5	5	N	N	The Conservative Lie	I have read all of Franken's books and have enjoyed each.  While Franken is often thought of as a humorist, his political commentary is biting.  He has written some things that has needed to be said.<br />Franken dissolves the myth of the Liberal media bias through his research.  This research is the element that all the conservative attacks on the democratic party lack.  Franken's writing on Bill O'Reilly and the Fox network exposes it as a less then truthful news source.  His attacks on Bush and the Bush Adminstration should scare any intelligent reader.  The administration has been a sham from the beginning.  The book is also full of laughs including a test on &quot;No Child Left Behind&quot; and &quot;Supply Side Jesus&quot;.<br />I am truly glad Franken said a lot of things that needed to be said in this book.  I hope that this book is strong enough to fight the less than truthful conservative media and remove Bush from the White House in 2004.	2003-09-08
US	50104667	R3HS3QM194C7BS	0525945725	626475978	The Darwin Awards: Evolution in Action	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Laugh Out Loud Funny	While this book is not a book that you read from cover to cover in a day, it is worth the time.  To read it correctly, you should pick it up everyday and read a couple of pages.  The pure stupidity of some of the people in these stories is sure to make you feel better about your life.  Best of all, this book encourages you to laugh at other people.<br />No story in this book is as funny as the story titled &quot;Scrotum Self Repair&quot;.  Just use you imagination to figure out what that story is about.  While it may disgusting, it is funny.  Other favorites of mine include &quot;Lightning Date&quot; and &quot;The Dog and The Jeep&quot;.  Since I purchased this book, I have shown it to others who have also loved its off-key humor.  I suspect that since you are looking at this review, you will love these stories too.<br />As a bonus, you can visit the Darwin Awards web site to get new stupid human stories daily.  However, it is not always for the faint of heart.	2003-09-05
US	50104667	RFQG6XCDRTMWV	078688505X	238592733	Pure Drivel	Books	4	4	5	N	Y	Not all drivel	In his book Pure Drivel, Steve Martin has some very humorous moments.  While some parts of the book fall a little flat because they lack a little direction, I enjoyed most of the book.<br />Some of the chapters which are about writing in itself are humorous to anybody who can see how badly some people write.  These chapters include \\"Writing is Easy!\\", \\"Times Roman Announces Shortage of Periods\\", and a favorite of mine \\" A Word from the Words.\\"  \\"Side Effects\\" and \\"The Hundred Greatest Books I've Read\\" are also among my favorites.  While the stories are short in length, most of them have some sense of closure.  Other stories, such as \\"The Paparazzi of Plato\\" and \\"Mars Probe Finds Kittens\\" show Martin trying too hard to demonstrate intelligent humor.  As a result, the joke is more cute than laugh out loud funny.<br />As a whole, I did enjoy this book.  Amazon.com lists Jon Stewart's Naked Pictures ... as a book also enjoyed by readers of this book.  However, I think this book is significantly better than Stewart's book.	2003-08-24
US	50104667	R22AQ4ZF0YSZMX	0517202964	689906719	Fdr	Books	5	11	12	N	Y	The Greatest President of the 20th Century	Frankiln Roosevelt is most often thought of as the President that led the United States most of the way through World War II.  In this book, Alsop takes a different approach to capturing FDR's life.  While Alsop sees his book as a memoir of his interactions with FDR, it rarely comes off that way.  The fact that it feels so much like a biography makes Alsop's commentary annoying at times.  <br />Many of the pictures in the book are treasures that are only in the possession of the Roosevelt family.  That in itself, makes this book worth the price.  Many of this photos show how physically fragile the president was near the end of his life.  Many of the stories in this book are ommitted from history books, but are certainly worth knowing.  One example is the story of Roosevelt trying to add most justices to the Supreme Court in order to get them to vote to his liking.  <br />My one problem with the book is its concise nature.  Based on the small number of pages, much of FDR's life is not documented.  Alsop arrogantly negelcts some facts, such as the onset of FDR's polio, because he believes they are common knowledge.  However, the format and photographs compensate for this omission.	2003-08-19
US	50104667	R224DT58HHZHFD	0451402391	738816260	The Search for the Green River Killer	Books	5	6	8	N	Y	America's Most Savage Killer	For years, I was hesitant to read this book.  I have little interest in reading about true crime cases that are still unsolved.  In 2001, a suspect was arrested and is believed to the Green River Killer.  This book is the most complete work available on the Green River Killer and the story of the case.<br />The story starts in the early 80's in Seattle.  The bodies of prostitues are being found all over the Seattle area.  The last reported number of victims is 49.  However, the actual total is known to be significantly higher.  If it is accurate, this total is higher than any serial killer in American history.  Smith and Guillen tell the chronological story of this investigation.  The people of Seattle and police continue to find bodies throughout a four year period.  The community is devestated and frustrated by the police's inability to catch the killer.  Among the four main suspects mentioned in the book, the truck painter is the one who is goes unnamed.  Ten years after the original publication of this book the new afterword tells the name of the truck painter who has become the primary suspect of the killings.  Through the use of new DNA technology, Gary Leon Ridgway was directly linked to three of the murders.  He was also indirectly linked to several others.<br />This book is a true crime masterpiece.  The story is focused and stays on a chronological path.  The new edition to the book adds a sense of closure to the case.  In the future, the courts will tell if this sense of closure is real.  Definitely, a must read for true crime fans.	2003-07-31
US	50104667	RPF3Q5DWJ3M3C	0786888741	913320116	Lucky Man: A Memoir	Books	5	0	1	N	N	A Lucky Man Indeed	One of my favorite shows growing up was Family Ties.  Naturally, I was sadden to hear of Michael J. Fox's illness.  In his Memoir, Fox discusses his childhood, which led to the beginning to his career.  He further details his career through its end which largely resulted from his illness.<br />Lucky Man is a fun and heart-warming book.  The wit demostrated by Fox reminds me of his character on Family Ties, Alex. P Keaton.  The humor effectively adds dept to the stories.  The stories from his childhood can bring a smile to anybody's face as hey recall memories of their childhood.  The story of his acting career reads like many actors before him, but ends differently.  Despite this, Fox does not want you to feel sorry for him.  His illness created within him the opportunity to discover his true self.  For that, he is grateful.  It is in the face of tradegy that many people discover their true self.  In this book the reader discovers not only a quality entertainer, but a great human being.<br />The one flaw I find in the book is that it is hard to follow at times because it does not follow a chronological order.  However, this will not be a problem if you read it in a short period of time.  I had a great deal of trouble putting the book down.	2003-07-12
US	50104667	R1JDQ82ENZUVD5	0451166256	474573372	The Boston Strangler	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Well Written True Crime	I have read many true crime novels.  This is among the best written ones which is particularly note-worthy since the copyright is 1966.<br />The book tells the chronology of the investigation into the strangling murder that took place in the Boston in the early 1960's.  After going through the investigation of each murder as it happens, the author discusses the interviews and suspects.  The investigators even go so far as to discuss their use of a man with ESP powers in the investigation.  However, this only serves as a side track from the real killer.  The book concludes with the interviews of the real Boston Strangler, Albert DeSalvo.  The Strangler describes his childhood and marriage which are the main factors which caused the rampage.  Desalvo also describes each of the killings as he went through them.  <br />One of the most interesting facets of the book is the question of DeSalvo's sanity.  He did show remorse and gave hints as to why he did it.  But the fact that he willingly confessed in itself raised the question of his sanity again.  In cases of well publicized crime sprees like this, numerous people will often try to confess.  Usually all of these confessions are false.  Based on the acuracy of  some of the false suspects' confessions, the book raises some doubts about DeSalvo's confession.  However, the author ultimately assures the reader that DeSalvo is the man.	2003-07-07
US	50104667	R31FYSXB9CO3A	140130057X	764274447	The Teammates: A Portrait of a Friendship	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Friendship	Teammates is a story of true friendship.  The book centers around three greats from the Boston Red Sox, Ted Williams, Dom Dimaggio, John Pesky, and Bobby Doerr.  Their final meeting is used as a backdrop for several stories from their playing days.  <br />The story starts in the final months of the life of Ted Williams.  Dimaggio and Pesky are inspired to reunite with their friend before his inevitable death.  Bobby Doerr is unable to make the trip because of the health of his wife.  <br />The book is formatted in the same way things were probably discussed in the car that day.  The stories build up as each one of the four joins the team with the final addition being Pesky.  The book continues as it goes through the teams years as a American League powerhouse.  Unfortunately, World War II and the Korean War would be the main factor in preventing these baseball icons for playing in more than one World Series.  The Red Sox lost that one World Series to the Cardinals.  The play that allegedly turned that series is discussed in detail.  The misfortune for which Pesky was blamed is a travesty.  Even his teammates try to take the blame from Pesky.  Being the stand-up guy that he is, Pesky continues to unjustly accept the blame.  The book ends with each playing leaving the team until Williams returns from the Korean War to find all of his friends are gone.  This drains much of the fun of the game for Williams.  As a consequence he also leaves baseball.<br />Halberstam really does not write a book as buy as he retells stories from a car ride.  This book is certain to become a favorite of those who enjoy baseball or the friendships developed in team sports.  It should also be required reading for Red Sox fans.	2003-06-30
US	50104667	R1PNY2YB5DOKXY	0856488380	511416294	Dream Thief	Books	4	4	6	N	N	Science Fiction with a New Spin	Who would have thought that a combination of science fiction christianity would ever exist in a book.  Grant it, Star Trek and Star Wars have themes which touch on religion.  However, neither bases the story on Chrsitianity.  The Dream Thief addresses the question of religion's existance on other planets.<br />It is true that we know life does not exist on Mars.  It is also unlikely that any life form is capable of producing the technology that exists in this book.  However, if you suspend this disbelief, the book is enjoyable.  The story includes a dream experiment which leads to the discovery of life on Mars, and the lead character's (Spence) discovery of his faith in God through his subsequent exploration of the Martian Christianity.  Another sub-plot also demonstrates Spence falling in love which adds another sunstantial layer to the story.<br />All of these themes make a theme that is truly enjoyable.  Even though I am not a fan of fiction, I enjoyed this book.	2003-06-30
US	50104667	RQ2Z6KAQNUFZI	0425189430	304004391	Zodiac Unmasked: The Identity of America's Most Elusive Serial Killer Revealed	Books	4	3	8	N	N	Trying to Solve the Zodiac Mystery	Few serial killers has acheived as much fame as San Francisco's Zodiac Killer.  Robert Graysmith has written the previous benchmark book on the subject, but attempts to expand on his accomplishments through Zodiac Unmasked.  In this book, Graysmith reveals what many believe is the true identity of the Zodiac Killer.<br />While Graysmith is to be commended for his research and knowledge of this subject, he should be reprimanded for his writing skills.  Much of what he says is redundant and seems to to talk in circles for several pages with only the intention of lengthening the book.  Aside from this shortcoming, the book is worth reading for true crime fans. Graysmith gives many details to support his argument.  Because the story is not told chronologically, many of the details can be lost in the confusion by the average reader.  It is advisable to take notes.  The last few pages mark a timeline of the Zodiac killer as well as noting many of his communications.<br />Overall, the book would be most interesting to those who are interested in true crime and the Zodiac Killer specifically.  It is probably not the best book from which to start your knowledge of Zodiac.	2003-06-17
US	50104667	R3EUPJIDAOGVH3	0440504708	144656419	I'm Good Enough, I'm Smart Enough, and Doggone It, People Like Me!: Daily Affirmations By Stuart Smalley	Books	5	29	33	N	Y	I Can Enjoy This Book	I have read all of Al Franken's books up to this point with the exception of this one.  I had been a fan of Franken since his days of Saturday Night Live, particularly his Stuart Smalley character.  This book further demonstrates the depth and intelligence of his humor.<br />The book is very similar to the movie based on it (Stuart Saves His Family).  Having already seen the movie, I was anticipating certain events in the book once I started reading.  Despite my previous knowledge, I found the book to be laugh out loud funny. The humor of the Stuart Smalley character is based in him trying to help out others, yet being a mess himself as is demonstrated by his membership in several support groups.<br />Even people passing through my home who picked this book up from my coffee table and read a few pages have enjoyed what they read.  It is not hard to get the joke.  This is a easy, but fun read.	2003-05-03
US	50104667	R13URJ7P1P583G	1852852534	540116658	Churchill: A Study in Greatness	Books	5	21	23	N	Y	True Greatness	Geoffrey Best undertakes an unenviable task with this book.  He attempts to capture the life of one of England's greatest leaders in one book.  Best is successful in his attempt.<br />While it is obviously impossible to list all of Churchill's great stories and accomplishments in just over 300 pages, Best is entertaining in his approach.  While this chronological tale may be a bit dry to the average reader, those who enjoy history will embrace this book.  Best documents Churchill's attitude that he was destined for greatness early in life, discusses many of his war strategies, and is thorough enough to look into Churchill's family and personal life.  Many people are unaware of the tragic lives of his three children, all of which are alluded to in this book.  There truly is more to this man than is demontrated in the common pictures history books record of him.  <br />Churchill worked toward bettering England and world almost unitl his death.  This man who was largely self taught played a large role in shaping contemporary Europe even when he was no longer the Prime Miister.  Even when his idea of the United States of Europe failed, he continued to be an early proponent of arms control and ending communism.  The chapters which discuss his later years are among the most fascinating parts of this book.<br />Books on the life of Churchill can go into much greater detail than this.  This book is an excellent starter for learning about the life of Churchill.	2003-04-24
US	50104667	R3P5TCZ1UR0KM	0688171621	535500744	Naked Pictures of Famous People	Books	2	6	72	N	N	If you don't expect too much, you won't be let down	What is amazing about Jon Stewart is that he keeps getting good jobs despite his failures.  He currently works the Daily Show, despite every other show he had bottoming out.  This book is a demostration of why he has failed.<br />Many of the jokes/stories in this book are old jokes that he recycled and put a slightly new twist on.  For example, how many jokes about the Kennedy family can be funny?  While the new twists are often creative, they fail to actually be FUNNY! The story about Hitler 2000 was creative, but it was not laugh out loud funny. Also, the new Judiasm joke was humorous, but most people do not have the funny bone for Jewish jokes.  Otherwise, Woody Allen would still be huge.<br />In this book, Jon Stewart tries to be something he is clearly not, funny.  George Carlin knows how to write a humorous book.  Stewart knows how to luck out and get good tv jobs and book deals with little talent.  The high ratings for this book are fraudulent.	2002-11-28
US	50104667	R3SJX251WJD153	1572434651	382443552	Bobby the Brain: Wrestling's Bad Boy Tells All	Books	5	2	2	N	N	The Weasel	While I am not much of a fan of modern wrestling, Bobby Heenan is perhaps my all time favorite in the business.  Heenan was a great entertainer, though not a full time wrestler.  In his days with the WWF, his quick jibes always got a laugh out of me.<br />In his book, Heenan tells the story of his life and journey through wrestling. While their is no real &quot;dirt&quot; in the book, Heenan's humor is as sharp as it is on the television.  Some of the stories are hilarious and give real insight into the business.  Heenan also talks about his personal life including growing up without a father and finding his long lost family members only a few years ago.  These images give insight as to the real man that is not the character played on camera.  <br />Heenan is currently battling cancer but maintains excellent odds of recovery.  I hope that he can bring the weasel character back to the television again and live a long life.	2002-11-12
US	50104667	R2MEEZ6QGAG339	0848813553	603842525	The Man Without a Country	Books	5	9	11	N	Y	The Story of Learning to Appreciate Being an American	I originally read this book in eighth grade, and recently had the desire to reread the book.  The book was just as I remembered it.  However, with a greater understanding of the world, I have learned to appreciate this classic even more.  While an American may not agree with that the United States does, a perfect country or government has yet to be created. Philip Nolan made a statement in which he disowned his country in his younger days.  It was a statement that he would quitely regret for the rest of his life.  Even in exile, Nolan reflects loyalty to his country in his behavior.  On his death bed, Nolan only wants to learn of what has happened to the country since he was exiled.  He was able to die a happy man knowing how the country he loved had prospered.  <br />The story is intended to made readers appreciate their country.  Sometimes it may be difficult to agree with the government.  In the end, one realizes that they love their country like a parent or their own child. Nolan had to learn this lesson the hard way.	2002-10-31
US	50104667	RMY9RW0T6P5RS	0553213393	904052489	Inferno (Bantam Classics)	Books	4	2	4	N	N	A Visit to the Inferno	Perhaps the part of this classic literature that has struck me the most is the imagery used to describe the inferno.  Dante does not hold anything back in the description of this journey through the afterlife.  While it is often suggested that the plot of this classic is lacking, the desciption of the place people can see only in nightmares is both vivid and disturbing.  At times, the reader can almost feel the same cold feelings as Dante in this cold, dark place.<br />While this book is hardly as casual read for the average person, the imagery description make this a &quot;must read' for fans of great literature.	2002-10-13
US	50104667	RJWZAYL8A60GQ	052594673X	978544299	Oh, the Things I Know! A Guide to Success, or, Failing That, Happiness	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Making Fun of the Self-Help Craze	To a certain extent, there are far too many books out there in which an author tries to tell us how to get the most out of life. Most of these self-help authors are hardly qualified to give advice as they are written by authors that know nothing about life (at least not life in the real world). Franken has written a parody of all these terrible books.<br />Franken pokes fun at youth, middle age, and old age. His best jokes are related to sex and the woman you will marry versus the woman you want to marry. Perhaps his best jibes are at old age and comparing violent video games to the cultural impact of the Beatles. <br />I enjoyed this book as a fan of Franken's, but would probably not advise reading it unless you are really in tune with his style of humor.	2002-09-13
US	50104667	R2WT2OQ8NF7NBA	1559390735	112613105	Healing Anger: The Power of Patience from a Buddhist Perspective	Books	4	90	92	N	N	Patience	I have read several of the Dalai Lama' books and hve grown more fond of him with each book.  In this book, His Holiness attempts to address the issue of anger.  His main argument is based in the fact that anger can be remedied through patience.  I find this to be true as anger is often rooted in impatience.  The book sites Buddhist scripture to explain the reasoning behind the argument.  In addition, His Holiness presents meditation sessions in the book.  Even for those who are inexperienced in the meditation practices, the suggestions make the practice easy and practical.  The meditation practices did help me address some of the anger in my life.  As the Dalai Lama suggests, anger will not disappear.  It takes time to work through anger.  Anger is a powerful and destructive emotion.  It is worth learning to control anger.<br />The only problem I have found in this book is that It tends to be a little hard to follow if you are unfamiliar with Buddhist scripture.  The dialogue can also seem very long and drawn out at times.  Overall, this book can be beneficial to those who seek its wisdom.	2002-08-23
US	50104667	R381GLTFQ4LA9A	0861711386	225004940	The Good Heart: A Buddhist Perspective on the Teachings of Jesus	Books	4	10	13	N	N	A New Perspective on Christianity	When I discovered that a book existed on this topic, I was skeptical as to the book's value.  Although this book is short in length with less than 200 pages, it is full of wisdom.<br />His Holiness the Dalai Lama is given various passages from each of the four Gospels and is asked to evaluate them.  His Holiness only evaluates the meaning of the passages while avoiding criticizing Christianity.  Because he believes there is no right answer, the Dalai Lama the value in having multiple religious faiths over one dominant religion.  His Holiness give a new and valuable perspective to important passages of the Gospels.  Christians seeking new meaning for their faith will find value in these evaluations.  Similarly, Buddhists will be enlightened by the Dalai Lama's thoughts on the life of Jesus Christ.  As a whole, this is a valuable read for all.	2002-08-10
US	50104667	R2U6TG4SG12ZMU	0393310728	302322388	How to Lie with Statistics	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Almost Honest	Darrell Huff has written a excellent resource for those who are struggling with a stastics course.  While much of the research is dated, the facts are as true today as they were then.  Statistics do not lie, people lie.  Example after example, Huff shows the value of reading any study with skepticism.  We laugh at the thought of believing everything we see on tv, but surely all studies are honest, right?  Huff shows even the most credible of sources can be irresponsible and dishonest in what they tell their readers.  This book was very helpful to me in my research and I would suggest it to those researching the flaws of statistics.	2002-07-07
US	50104667	R39DY0N3TBREDV	0738204412	232125841	The Hurried Child: Growing Up Too Fast Too Soon, Third Edition	Books	4	13	20	N	N	If you thought childhood was only fun and games ...	Dr Elkind has done significant research in the field of child psychology.  While some of his research has been the subject of criticism, \\"The Hurried Child\\" makes some vary valid points.  With his insite, it is difficult to pin-point when childhood is carefree.<br />In a society the is influenced by the whims of the business world, the working class is easily influenced.  Business wants better works that produce at a higher, more profitable rate.  Their solution is to put pressure of the educational system.  This brings issues of accountability into school.  Rather than teacher kids how to think, schools have to focus their curriculum around pass a standardized test to continue to receive funding.  In some cases, the standardized tests start before first grade.  This is just a sample of te pressure children have to perform.  It is no wonder so many kids are seeing terapists who perscribe medicine to keep them from going crazy.  <br />Elkind presents various other forms of stressors on children and discusses why the stress is unnecessary.  If  something is not done to reverse the trend toward increased stress in our children, it will only get worse.  One must realize that generations have turned out ok before the trends toward accountability.  Without this movement, we are likely to continue to be ok.	2002-06-28
US	50104667	R1GGZ6ARVDMR7C	0140043519	683385169	Junky	Books	3	3	6	N	N	An easier to follow version of the life of a heroin addict	By far, this book is much easier to follow than Burroughs' book &quot;Naked Lunch&quot;.  &quot;Junky&quot; gives a better idea of what the day to day life of a heroin addict is like.  One thought which stands out in my mind is Burroughs' explanation of heroin addiction.  At first, you take junk for the high, than you take the junk to prevent the sickness that comes from withdrawal.  The high is non-existant at this important, and becomes irrelevant.  The adventures of Bill Lee take him from New York to Mexico in &quot;Junky&quot;.  Bill seems to be consistently trying to kick the habit.  However, the logic to his quitting is flawed because he tries to replace one addiction with another.  This is the source of his adventuresin &quot;Junky&quot;.  One problem I have with this book is its lack of an apparent plot.  However, this may be intentional because the life of a junky also lacks apparent meaning.	2002-05-11
US	50104667	R2X6Q6EKY2VEH2	0684870185	69350065	When Pride Still Mattered : A Life Of Vince Lombardi	Books	5	1	1	N	Y	Work and Play	Work and Play.  These words were tattooed on the knuckles of Vince's father.  They symbolize the paradox that was Vince Lambardi.  He stood for work and play, love and hate.  Over the years, Vince has become a legend in the business world, football, and sports in general.  Lombardi was preached the themes of discipline and patriotism, and he passed on at a time when these values that he symbolized began to decay.  Lombardi was a complicated man indeed.  <br />One element, Maraniss does at excellent job of bringing out in Lombardi is the fact that he was a flawed individual and not the symbol of perfection he was held up to be.  The 3 most important things in the coach's life were God, football, and family.  Lombardi attended church daily and was perhaps the best footbal coach ever.  Maraniss does an excellent job of looking into the flawed and often neglected family life of Lombardi.   <br />As a Packer fan and football fan, I believe this is an excellent documentation of the life of Vince Lombardi.  While I am not a reader of biographies, I thoroughly enjoyed this book.  I just wish I could have lived through this golden era of football.	2002-05-08
US	50104667	R4I2I8WZ9U0SQ	1557983437	117666068	Overcoming Student Failure: Changing Motives and Incentives for Learning (Psychology in the Classroom)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A Helpful Resource	While this book is not structured as a book to read for pleasure, it serves as an excellent resource for writing a paper or gathering facts for an in-service workshop.  I found the authors explanations and suggestions on intrinsic and extrinsic motivation particularly helpful. The price is also a bargain, particulalry a used version.	2002-04-17
US	50104667	R3IKDTQ7TAVGPZ	1573221112	457800928	The Art of Happiness: A Handbook for Living	Books	5	3	4	N	N	The Enigma that is Happiness	His Holiness the Dalai Lama does not disappoint the read in the wisdom of this book. While the narration by Howard C. Cutler is a bit annoying at times, the wisdom of His Holiness is radiant.<br />Happiness is consitently being threatened by counteracting emotions and a lack of discipline and patience.  Happiness is ultimately build on a calm, stable state of mind.  The Dalai Lama discusses several techniques which foster the development of a positive state of mind, leading to happiness. While the techiniques suggested are largely based in Buddhist beliefs, all religions can bring happiness and a calm mind. The target audience of this book is to bring the sense of peace and happiness to those who do not have any means to achieve happiness.  Some people are never able to find true happiness. For any reader, this book can be the first step on the path to happiness.	2002-04-12
US	50104667	R2524YUS2WVO8H	0309065364	299042980	How People Learn: Bridging Research and Practice	Books	4	31	47	N	N	Teachers should know how people learn	Perhaps this may be preaching to the choir, but the people who are reading this book probably already know how people learn.  The people who need to read this book are the bad, burned out teachers who fail in their role as educators.  With that in mind, I believe that this book has a lot to say to many.  Unfortunately, what it said, I already knew.  Research done by John Dewey and Howard Gardner demonstrated a lot of what this research has to say already.<br />Perhaps the most interesting part of this book dealt with misconceptions.  Every students that walks into a classroom, walks into the room with misconceptions.  Teachers give the students facts that dispute these misconceptions, but rarely replace the misconceptions. It is only when teachers make students active in disproving a misconception that the students actually internalize the truth. This is where the American educational system fails miserably.  For example, most teenagers still believe impeachment means removal from office. When you prove Bill Clinton was never removed from office, they can actually see evidence that disputes their misconception. How else could we have proven the Earth was not flat before space travel? Demonstrating through learning which required thinking to prove a misconception wrong.	2002-04-12
US	50104667	R1T2KGW3DLOSUE	0743427084	160221493	How to Practice: The Way to a Meaningful Life	Books	5	100	103	N	N	A great deal of wisdom for people of all faiths	Many people choose not to read the books by his Holiness the Dalai Lama because they believe that this will offend or counter their own religious beliefs.  Quite to the contrast, everybody can take the simple practices of this book to better their everyday lives.<br />One line in this book has stood out in the my mind.  &quot;You should realize that difficult present circumstances are entirely due to your own past undisciplined actions, so when you experience a difficult period, do you best to avoid behavior that will add to the burden later on.&quot; (p 38).  This is just one example of the suggestions given to living a more fulfilling life.  I believe that he is right in his suggestion that money and posessions will not make a person happy in life.  Each of us must discover what gives meaning to our life.  To find this is really not that difficult as His Holiness reveals where it lies.<br />This book is highly recommended for anybody seeking personal and spiritual growth.	2002-02-25
US	50104667	RZJHJQ84ZYXDN	0802132952	783763378	Naked Lunch	Books	2	7	11	N	N	What?	I first heard of this book on the VH1 Legends Syd Barrett and Pink Floyd Edition.  I expect a book which discusses the daily life of a drug addict.  I was very dissappointed.  <br />Aside from a few circumstances the book was little to do with drug addition. Instead, the book spends most of its time discussing homosexual experiences of a drug addict.  The book is largely incoherent.  However, it has been suggested that this book is best read like poetry.  Even if this were the case, I fail to see any logic behind the book.  I guess you would have to be ... well on drugs to understand this book.<br />You can live your life knowing you missed nothing by not reading this book.	2002-02-25
US	50104667	R3RL3GAWC7Q666	0786013621	506845535	The Night Stalker: The Life and Crimes of Richard Ramirez	Books	5	0	2	N	N	A frightening tale	With the possible exception of Helter Skelter, this is the best true crime book I have ever read.  Carlo does an excellent job of telling the story of Richard Ramirez.  <br />By no means is Ramirez a conventional serial killer.  First of all, he does not fit the stereotypical mold of a young white male. Because of his Hispanic heritage, had he been able to get to Mexico, he might be free to this day.  His victims were not typical either, but very random.  Perhaps what is most intriguing about this Satanist is his apparent control over the opposite sex.  Women melt at the sight of his brown eyes, despite knowing he is a killer.  This foreshadows the story of how he got married while in prison.  <br />While this book is not a popular true crime book, it is definitely worth reading.	2002-02-16
US	50104667	R11LIJJO4VI81Z	0679769781	831998889	We're Right, They're Wrong: A Handbook for Spirited Progressives	Books	5	17	28	N	N	What ever became of &quot;the Republican Revolution&quot;?	While much of the material in this book is dated, the points Carville makes are still very relevant today.  Based on the way the author presents the facts, I had to ask myself how in the world could anybody vote Republican.<br />The book details Carville's arguments for Bill Clinton's '96 relection.  The author discusses the accomplishments of Clinton during his first four years in office.  To supplement, he discusses how the Republicans attempted to foul up Clinton's plans.  Among the topics discussed are the economy, health care, various government programs, and the failed Republican Revolution.  For readers who are skeptical of anything the government does, Carville also lists many successful government programs and their accomplishments. This list functions as a great resource.  <br />While Clinton was not a saint during his tenure in office, Carville does an excellent job of discussing what a quality President America had in Bill Clinton.  This book is still worth reading 6 years later.	2002-02-04
US	50104667	R2UHWZ9PPW78HD	0451527801	30170986	The Confessions of St. Augustine (Signet Classics)	Books	5	16	17	N	N	A Spiritual Journey	I bought this book over a year ago and I was not quite sure why I bought it.  About a month ago, I began going through a troubled period in my life.  The writings of St. Augustine helped me live through this period.  <br />While the book is most known for its philisophical proof of the existance of God, the book's value runs even greater.  Augustine also discusses the meaning of our own existance.  Each of us is molded by the opportunity to grow by each experience of our life.  Ultimately, we must see the error of our ways to find true happiness in life through God.  In this way, God molds us into better people.  While the existance of God is not something we can easily explain, Augustine offers insite into this dilema.  God created us in his own image, but this does not mean he looks like a human being.  He created us as loving creatures like himself.  In addition, Augustine address many other issues relating to God in his biography.  <br />This book may be difficult reading to the casual reader.  I would suggest potential readers only read this book if he/she plans to study it with the dedication it deserves.	2002-01-30
US	50104667	R29A0FUO6M3SH5	0451161882	453970176	Narrative of the Life of Frederick Douglass (Signet)	Books	5	2	4	N	N	A honest look at slavery	Perhaps more so than any other account, Douglass gives us a look into the life of a slave.  I enjoy this book on many level.  Douglass writes honestly and in a factual tone.  He does mince his words when he describes the brutality of slavery.  Douglass demonstrates that he is an intelligent man despite his lack of education.  He taight himself to read.  To our youth, this demonstrates the value of education.  Douglass also show Americans manipulated the work of God even in his time.  Yet, Douglass found strength in that God.  I think the quality I enjoyed most about this book is the fact that Douglass does not see himself as a hero, but as an average slave.  This is not a typical characteristic of an autobiography. I read this book for the second time coming and going on 3 hour flights.  The book is a short read, but well worth your time to read of atriumph of the human spirit.	2001-12-26
US	50104667	R3VIUZQ8I6CNBB	0316769495	551899474	Franny and Zooey	Books	4	0	2	N	N	And that's how the story ends?	I am a big fan of Salinger's work, Catcher in the Rye in particular.  Based on the recommendations of others, I chose to read this selection.  Based on the high standards I have for Salinger, I am somewhat dissappointed.  <br />Franny and Zooey are similar to Our freind Holden in &quot;Catcher...&quot; in many ways.  They are all very good at finding the flaws in others.  Where this book differs from &quot;Catcher...&quot; is that Salinger gives a solution to how the characters can get past these issues.  Whereas the ending was somewhat predictable in hindsight, I never saw it coming.  Nevertheless, I believe this book is well worth your trouble to read.	2001-12-12
US	50104667	R9JUOHG8HMCNF	0316769487	862964341	The Catcher in the Rye	Books	5	1	1	N	N	My favorite book	I just finished reading this book for the second time.  The first time I read the book was 7 years ago as a senior in high school.  I find that even as a successful adult, I still identify with Holden Caulfield.<br />The book iteself deals with the a day in the life of a trouble adolescent, who has found the world to be riddled with phonies.  Some of the observations Holden makes are very profound for an adolescent.  Some see Holden as a boy who hates everything, but this is not what is found as you read into the character. Holden has a great deal of love and compassion in his heart.  However, based in the fact that he is young and still learning about the world and the fact that he borders on manic depression, he has trouble expressing love or perhaps even knowing what love is. <br />Overall, this story of the rebel without a cause is well written and is still equipped to give us some insight into the lives of both adolescents and people in general.  I love this book so much that I will likely read it again some day. I hope some day there is a quality movie version of this book.	2001-11-26
US	50104667	R3JA266Y9D0KLQ	0786883219	374159657	Brain Droppings	Books	4	2	2	N	N	One of the funniest men of the planet	George Carlin still remains one of the funniest men on the planet with his observations of the idiosyncresies of modern society. While is largely known as a comedian, many of his observation are relevant and accurate.  <br />While Brain Droppings is entertaining, Silly Putty and Napalm is a much more entertainig book.  Either book makes a good book to keep on your desk at home or work to brighten up an otherwise gloomy day. This is not the type of book you can rush through and appreciate.  Take your time and enjoy!!	2001-10-29
US	50104667	R2BFS79UA9RSL4	0375504222	365861800	The Lost Art of Drawing the Line: How Fairness Went Too Far	Books	4	5	6	N	Y	The Death of Common Sense Part 2	Philip K. Howard's follow up to the best seller &quot;The Death of Common Sense&quot; is very similar to the previous work. Howard discusses how law has become an albatross to American society in may respects.  This book spends a great deal of time focusing on the problems of law in the American educational system.  As a veteran teacher, I can testify to the fact that many of these problems exist. However, Howard's discussions are just the tip of the iceberg when it comes to the legal problems of the educational system. This book restates the solution from the previous book. While it is feasible in theory, it will never happen. Overall, the book was an interesting read.	2001-09-09
US	50104667	R2YM6KRQTJ7DYF	0425173402	619924640	A Concise Biography of Adolf Hitler	Books	4	28	34	N	N	The Lone Wolf	The life Of Adolph Hitler is a facinating journey which has become riddled with myths by our popular culture. While adjectives such as evil and maniacal accurately describe Hitler, he was also a very intelligent man. Thomas Fuchs attemtps to dispell many of the myths, and bring out the truth with this book.<BR>Hitler seems to have be obsessed with creating poltical change since his career in art failed. Hitler also had other fascinations aside from anti-semitism (which was not his original idea). The book suggests Hitler to be a hypochondriac, which is somewhat beleiveable whether or not you believe that he had syphillis and bad teeth. Also, Fuchs discusses Hitler's obsession with wolfs, often seeing himself as sort of a lone wolf.<BR>My only objetion with this book is that it tends to be redundant at times. However, this is mostly due to the encyclopedia-like format of the book.<BR>For a reader that desires to learn more about perhaps the most hypnotically potent speaker in the history of humankind, this book is an excellent place to start. Many of the other Hitler biographies carry on far to long.	2001-09-01
US	50104667	R3CGG1EUWOS8IU	0451527100	201213691	The Communist Manifesto (Signet Classics)	Books	5	6	12	N	N	Marxist Bones	Most people claim that they do not have Marxist bone in their body.  Particulary if you are a baby boomer, you were raised to hate communism. While Marx's thoughts are idealistic at best, they definitely serve as food for thought.<br />Marx's economic beliefs suggest that the working class will rise up and overthrow the rich/ruling class in order to create a classless society. Their are several flaws that have been historically pointed out in relation to Marx's theory.  The most common flaw would suggest that Marx never foresaw the advent of a middle class society which is content unlike the working class.  This makes any revolution unlikely. One question to ask is &quot;Are people greedy?&quot; If you believe people are greedy, then the theories of Marx can not work. Greedy people could not allow themselves to be equal in the amount of toys they have with the general population. Greed would destroy communism just as it did in the Soviet Union.  The greed of some is one of the ultimate reasons the Soviet Union collapsed.  However, Cuba is still survivng and Castro as seen as a saint in Cuba.<br />While Marx's ideas are thought provoking, they are generally useless in the modern world. This book should be read by all people who consider themselves politically, socially, and/or economically educated.	2001-08-10
US	50104667	RKB405JYMWNNT	0393041832	967454060	The Bush Dyslexicon: Observations on a National Disorder	Books	5	6	8	N	Y	Frightening	While an intelligent person has already realized that our president often has trouble turning a phrase, The Bush Dyslexicon goes beyond laughing at W.'s short-comings.  The results  are frightening.<br />One of the main arguments concurs with a previous suggestions that Bush has dyslexia.  The author, while leaving this as a possibility, goes to further to suggest that Bush is an amnesiac. For this reason, Bush mixes up pre-rehersed answers to questions in his mind, only getting small memorized portions correct.  Also, Bush has trouble answering any question straight without falling back on some previous touchy-feely jargon. Does he even remember the question asked.  We know W. is not the most intelligent man, but he is a product of the system.  The book explains the conspiracy that got Bush into the oval office.  Yes, it was Daddy's money and his rich friends. Also, explain how Daddy's money influenced the media.  Was it an accident that rather focusing on Gore's knowledge of the issues that the media focused on W.'s image as a good ole boy?  Why is it that Americans never heard the story of W.'s bro is Florida altering the voter list illegally?  And believe me, W.'s record as the governor of Texas is less than sparkling.<br />Truthfully, this book would take further explanation than the 1,000 words I am allowed. But if you are concerned about the state of democracy in America, this book should be on your read list.  And the Democrat presidential candidate should be on your voter list in 2004.	2001-08-10
US	50104667	R15ICRE1AMB5S6	0786864133	62030752	Napalm & Silly Putty	Books	5	1	2	N	Y	An Angry Philosopher	Carlin has been around for an awful long time and he is still a very funny man. He comes across like an philosopher except really angry and bitter about things in the world. However, because I identify with a lot of the things he says, he can not be far from reality.<br />Some of the material in this book is from stand-up routines Carlin has done. Some of the stuff is really fresh. I really enjoyed Carlin's expose on the camcorder. Some people just don't know when to stop filming. How can people possibly watch all of thehome movies from their meaningless lives.<br />I liked reading bits and peices of this book just to brighten up my day. It reads well this way. Overall, well worth the price!	2001-07-23
US	50104667	R3QZLWZ9EXJ2JV	0553351370	986694689	Fire in the Belly: On Being a Man	Books	5	50	59	N	N	Best book ever written for men	I read this book a few years back and I am in debt to its wisdom. It fact Sam Keen may also be indebt to me as I have given this book away as a gift at least a dozen times.<br />Keen looks at the changing role of men in society in this book. Men were the bread winners in families because that was the way it was supposed to be. With women expected to work, the male role has changed. All of the sudden, men(particularly the white male) has been blamed for many of the ills of society.<br />Keen explores where a man can find fulfillment in this modern world through roles in work, family, and sex. If you have ever asked yourself the question, &quot;What makes a man, a real man?&quot;, this book will help to answer the question. No man should be without this book.	2001-07-23
US	50104667	R2O8TS2S5WK3Q8	0486415953	143862699	On Dreams (Dover Thrift Editions)	Books	5	7	12	N	N	Dream On	This book is an extremely condensed version of Freud's thoughts on dreams. The book is 45 pages so it is an easy read that tends to be more readily available though other book selling sites.<br />Freud groups dreams into those with obvious meanings, those with latent meanings, and those that are incoherent. He goes on to explain how dreams can be interpreted. A section is even devoted specifically to interpreting the dreams of children. Freud has a lot of interesting things to say, but like anything he says, take it with a grain of salt.<br />WORD OF ADVICE: Don't let others see you reading Freud for pleasure, as they will think you are weird.	2001-07-16
US	50104667	R1QXN8PA7VHLSY	0553212788	604725626	The Prince (Bantam Classics)	Books	3	0	6	N	N	How to an effective leader	The prince has recently been pushed as being similar to &quot;The Art of War&quot; in its aplicability to succeeding modern life. However, aside from a few insights, I found the book to be largely bland. Machiavelli makes a point and goes into stories which resemble &quot;the begats&quot; in the Old Testament. Unless you are well versed the European history of this period, you will probably want to skip those passages. Even the though the passages are relatively short, they seem too drag on too long.<br />The book does make some very valid points about being a prince which could translate into being a leader in the modern world. However, these passages don't really make reading the book worth the time. The Art of War is much more insightful.	2001-07-05
US	50104667	R2LBDEZUQFDFRQ	0807009180	967695947	RACE MATTERS	Books	5	24	32	N	N	A Contemporary and Honest View of Race in America	Having been assigned to research Dr. West's philosophical views, I was only required to learn a cross-section of his thougts. However, once I started skimming through &quot;Race Matters&quot;, I was very intrigued with what the author had to say. <br />Dr. West addresses what he calls black nihilism, Nihilism is based in the influences of the capitalist market economy and lack of solid leadership in the African-American Community.  The economy has left many with an inability to love themselves and each other. Material possessions take the place of others. The lack of quality leaders has led to a moral crisis among African-American youth. As a result, the youth do not value education, their families, or life in general. Dr. West's statement about leadership is dreadfully true, as their are no leaders comparable to Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. or Malcolm X. Instead, this generation's best leader is Jesse Jackson.<br />Dr. West further points out the problems of black leadership, ethnic pride, affirmative action, black-jewish relations, and the most interesting entry is black sexuality.<br />The one regret I have about this book is that it is not well known, especially among African-American youth. With the strong thoughts of Dr. West, I am convinced that he is an excellent leader in the black community through his writings.	2001-07-01
US	50104667	R2S89KZ1SUBB8M	0446672289	231487583	The Death of Common Sense: How Law is Suffocating America	Books	5	4	5	N	N	What shall we do?	Philip Howard's book the The Death of Common Sense is both an enlightening and disturbing look at the inner workings of American government. Less than half of Americans vote because politicians never come through on their promises. Howard tells us why politicians seem impotent.  The laws of the land are smuthering us all.  Their is a &quot;How to&quot; guide for the right way of everything.  Even though the &quot;right way&quot; may be flawed or lengthy, it must be followed.<br />For example, OSHA labeled sand as a hazardous material.  The same sand as we see at the beach is hazardous. Not beacause it produces cancer or anything, but becuase sand contains trace amounts of silica.  Silica is a dangerous element on its own.  OSHA also found the very brick that built your house to be hazardous. If a brick is broken, it kicks up dust. We breathe this dust into our lungs. Long term damage could be caused. This is absurd!  All because the government wants to head off lawsuits before they start.<br />How about construction on the highway.  Bidding often takes foru years.  Bidding has to be opened to everybody. And the bureaucrats have to take their time to make sure the process is fair.  This &quot;how to&quot; maanual is in both houses of congress too.  All the steps have to be followed to make everybody happy or the process will be blocked.<br />The bottom line is Howard has exposed bureaucrats to be a cancer in the American government. How do we start Americans in motion to reverse this tide?	2001-06-26
US	50104667	RT67X8BFA65T5	0465088961	358934670	The Unschooled Mind: How Children Think And How Schools Should Teach	Books	5	90	95	N	N	Howard Gardner is a brilliant man!!	I read this book a few years ago as part of a course in my Master's degree program.  I had some familiarity with Gardner's work, mainly the seven intelligences.  However, until an educator has read this book, the educator can not apply the seven intelligences in the class room or teach effectively.<br />My dad once told me that I never learn anything until I break something. I was 16 and had just wrecked my first car. I never crashed again.  This is the concept behind Gardner's book. We learn from our experiences.  We learn by applying knowledge in real life situation. Knowledge is not necessarily power, but it is part of the equation. After teaching concepts in my class with follow-up assignments which were real life activities/experiences, I saw test results improve and student interest increase dramatically.  Students only want to learn what is useful to them so teachers must show subject matter to be relavent to the student's lives.  Gardner explains how a students mind can grow through these means.<br />This is a great read even if you are a parent who want to explore how your child learns.  Highly recommended!	2001-06-26
US	50104667	RUAUV7YM1TICJ	0553375288	934229430	To Love and Be Loved	Books	5	23	26	N	N	Love is . . .	I have been a fan of Sam Keen since I read his book &quot;Fire in the Belly&quot; a few years back.  I have not read any of Keen's other books until this book captured my interest in the bookstore.<br />Keen makes the argument that love is often misunderstood by those who claim to be in the know.  Keen argues that love is not the same in all situations. Their are different types of love in different types of situations. Keen uses stories from his own life and the lives of others to demonstrate his thesis.  The is the love one feels for their mate, their children, their friend, and their supreme being.<br />Keen's explanation of marriage is what stocks out most about this book. Keen dispells the myth of soul mates. A couple does not perefectly melt into each other but is able conform to each other and understand each other's needs. We all probably don't have perfect mates, but a number of mates could complement us well.  <br />Many readers will be disappointed to find that this book is not really related to sex. Although sex is part of love, love is what makes life worth living. Sex without love lacks substance.	2001-06-10
US	50104667	R2EEG8VCSX993F	089281781X	162154251	Gesundheit!: Bringing Good Health to You, the Medical System, and Society through Physician Service, Complementary Therapies, Humor, and Joy	Books	5	22	24	N	N	A truly fun and heart warming book	If you have seen the movie Patch Adams, the screen writers took some liberties with the life of Mr. Adams. The movie only tells a small distorted version of what is Patch Adams. Patch has some unconventional ideas about medicine. These ideas have led to a movement to change health care for the better.  Patch has dedicated his life toward helping the less fortunate and still lives on this creed.  <br />The one story in this book which sticks out in my mind is the story of the man with arthritis. To summarize, Patch discovered that the man did not feel the pain of his arthritis while watching the sunset. The man really enjoyed watching the sunset and pleasure from this event helps him forget his pain. Thinking of something pleasurable or performing a pleasurable act helps us forget pain. As Patch Adams himself said, The best medicince is not to treat the illness, but to treat the patient.&quot;<br />Thanks for your inspiration Patch! A great book!	2001-06-05
US	50104667	R2GCV297VY24B2	0671023934	858012267	The Anatomy of Motive	Books	5	25	26	N	N	Making a game of the misfits of society	Some people believe that John Douglas comes off as a bit arrogant in his writing, and I could not agree more. However, once the reader is able to get past the author's arrogance, the author compiles a very interesting read.<br />Douglas takes into account all of the types of killers including arsonists, assasins, poisoners, bombers, serial, killers, mass murders, and spree killers. He goes into detail to explain who is likely to commit the specific crime and what makes them snap to go on their murderous rampage.  Once the author gets into a specific story it is hard to put this book down.<br />The final chapter allows the reader to try some profiling of his/her own on some specific case. For this reason, the last chapter is called &quot;you make the call.&quot;<br />Overall, I enjoyed this book and would suggest it to all true crime fans. Just for the record, I do intend to read some of Douglas's other books in the future, based on my enjoyment of this book and the other book I have read and reviewed by him.	2001-06-05
US	50104667	R3E7GBMU60GXF1	0517003937	662862374	Ideas and Opinions	Books	5	19	20	N	N	Brilliant thoughts from a brilliant man	When I bought this book a few months back, I was under the impression that this book was largely composed of Eistein's political thoughts. I based this on my thinking that science is usually not based in opinion. To my suprise, only about 1/3 of the book discusses Einstein's political opinions of events such as the holocaust, his role in creating the bomb, and pacifism. <br />Einstein also deals with the issues of education, freedom, Judiasm, his home of Germany, and science.  EInstein is known for his scienctific thought. I am not much of a science person so I could not really get into Einstein's discussions on science. He may as well have written the discussions in ancient hebrew because they are hard to follow with many of the terms and concepts which I have forgotten since high school and college.<br />Based on Einstein's political thoughts alone, this book is a bargin. Einstein proves that he is not only a brilliant scientist, but he also has his finger on the pulse of humanity. Thank you for your insight Albert!	2001-06-05
US	50104667	R2RSAWWIGS8I3W	0374524866	925245991	The Death of Satan: How Americans Have Lost the Sense of Evil	Books	3	6	22	N	Y	who is to blame?	This book was obviously titled to sell books and not explain what the book is about. First the book talks about the history of slavery in the United States. The author seems to talk forever about slavery. From this point the author talks in circles about the blame game. Since our society does not believe in the devil as we once did, we have diseases and disfunctions to blame for the evil we do. The author is right in his presumption that people people look for and need a scapegoat.  The author argues that satan served as one easy scapegoat for all that is wrong with the world. The rules of socirty have went askew since Satan died. As a result the author argues we hunger to get the devil back. Because the book talks in circles for so long about the same vaguely realted points, I would only recommend this book as a paperweight or a reference for hardcore fans on the subject.  It is merely stating what most already know.	2001-05-27
US	50104667	R1C4DJ5BD32YFX	0486411206	382777141	Wisdom of the Buddha: The Unabridged Dhammapada (Dover Thrift Editions)	Books	4	3	8	N	Y	A Book of Wisdom	This book is an excellent collection of thoughts for those with a strong mind to ponder. It is a deep experience for all.	2001-05-27
US	50104667	R137O71EXAWSNN	0061096644	861222021	Underboss	Books	5	1	2	N	Y	Better than the Sopranos	I loved this book. Despite being quite knowledgable in terms of la cosa nostra, I learned a few things. Sammy the Bull takes you through the story of his life before, during, and even after his time in the mafia. Some his stories are hilarious, like the incident which occured when he was going to beauty school and he clipped the wire to some woman's hearing aid. The stories in the book give all of us non made members a groundbreaking inside look into the life. This is how things really are. In detail all of the mafia hits are described. It is quite graphic at times, no holds barred. Sammy is often labeled as a &quot;rat&quot; but you can judge for yourself after you read the book. Hey, he did what he had to do. Hope you are not offended by a lot of &quot;f-words&quot;. I highly recoomend this book to anybody who is interested in learning about the real mafia life, not the Sopranos.	2001-05-19
US	50104667	R1NFZ2O07VPVF1	0195014766	459752409	The Art of War	Books	5	0	2	N	Y	What the buzz is about	I was not quite clear why their has been such a buzz about this old book. I heard that it relates to modern life and particularly, life in the business world. It fact the book does all of these things and more.  While the book does not directly tell you which corporate strategies to employ, it gives the modern man philosiphy to zen upon.  While in life we are often distracted by unimportant matters, The Art of War preeches that necessity of focusing on the goal. If you go into battle without a goal and a battle strategy by which to achieve this goal, you have already lost!	2001-05-12
US	50104667	R2LXQLUPZO82OP	0517415283	850830152	Book of Five Rings: The Classic Guide to Strategy	Books	4	3	3	N	Y	Read the Art of War first!!	I did not like this book quite as much as the Art of War. However, I think this book is a good supplement to the Art of War which is why is suggest that you read it second. A lot of good philosiphy is crammed into these pages. I was particularly fond of the pages which explore zen. However, I was not pleased with the pages of pages of sword fighting strategy. I will probably never fight with a sword, and have no relevant application for these sword fighting techniques. However, it is a fulfilling read for a person who has a few hours to kill on a road trip or weekend.	2001-05-12
US	50104667	R5IX9ISWI37DS	1885778112	976238272	Before the Flames: Story of David Koresh and the Davidian Seventh-Day Adventists	Books	2	11	12	N	N	Not what I expected	To be honest, I did not like this book. The printing was filled with errors which really irritates me.  I expected the book to spend significant time discussing David Koresh and the events which led to the fire at Waco. However this book spend the bulk of its pages discussing everything that happened before David Koresh. It comes off as a very dry read. The history which led up to David Koresh really is not that interesting. The only good points this book receives from me is for the few pages in which Koresh is actually discussed. Pass this book up unless you want to read up on the history of the Seven Day Adventists.	2001-04-29
US	50104667	RPWX7PGKKXKK5	0962936022	979042812	The First Days of School: How to Be an Effective Teacher	Books	5	14	16	N	Y	Professional Improvement	As a teacher with a number of years under my belt, I saw bits and pieces of Harry Wong's videos at various teacher workshops. I purchased his book to read over the course of last summer. I implemented several of his ideas into my classroom and I must admit that I am a vastly improved teacher. You do not have to be a first year teacher to benefit from this book.  Particularly, Wong's ideas about classroom management have made me see things in the classroom that no methods course has made me see. To top it off, Wong adds his characteristic wit to his wisdom. It has come to my attention that many schools are now using this book as the textbook for introductory teaching courses.  It is much better than the textbook I had. A must read for all teachers!	2001-04-29
US	50104667	R3DN346DPX1HT0	0486292495	614661659	The Story of My Life	Books	4	6	9	N	N	How I Spend a Rainy Sunday Afternoon	Well, I bought this book some tiime ago, and decided to read it when there was nothing else to do. I figured with only 75 pages, I could finish it in a day. To be honest I really liked it. Helen Keller gives me an appreciation of the things I take for granted through the narration of her early life. In spite of her disabilities, Helen was able to find beauty in the world and later in her life she fought to solve many of the problems in the world. Few people realize that Helen lived 88 years and spend many of those years as a social activist. The bulk of this book focuses on her early years and how she learned to communicat with the outside world. The book continues into her formal education and the problems she encountered with it. My only problem with this book is the author tends to ramble in the last two chapters about her friends and favorite authors. While this information was interesting, I would have rather learned more about her. This book is well worth reading!	2001-04-23
US	50104667	R25Z17L4CCT61V	0671004115	156914973	Unabomber: On the Trail of America's Most-Wanted Serial Killer	Books	3	1	2	N	N	An informative book	The book was intersting, but a bit to brief for my liking. The actual story of the Unabomber life took less than 150 pages. The book details each of his bombings and suggests the reasoning behind the target and M.O.  Douglas also takes you through his thoughts in the investigation.  Many readers feel Douglas is a bit arrogant in his writing.  I do not agree with that opinion, nor do I feel this book is written that way.  <br />The rest of the book was not very interesting outside of the inclusion of the full manifesto of the Unabomber. The manifesto contains nothing shocking, but contains what you might expect an outsider hermit radical to say.  I'm sure there are better books about the Unabomber than this, so I suggest you try a more detailed account.	2001-04-22
US	50104667	R3NVV5DZFVPFUX	0684818868	458361116	Lies My Teacher Told Me : Everything Your American History Textbook Got Wrong	Books	5	6	9	N	N	A must for students and teachers of U. S. History	I won't lie, I love to read about American history. Lowen gives a witty and informative account of everything your U.S. History teacher got wrong. But it is not the teacher's fault...This book would also make a great aid to term papers, and a great conversation piece about what really happened the first Thanksgiving while you are carving the turkey.  A really good read!	2001-04-22
US	50104667	R271NIUE2NWFKU	0684870673	849640122	Lies Across America: What Our Historic Sites Get Wrong	Books	3	2	9	N	N	An informative, but dry collection of stories	While I enjoyed Lowen's book &quot;Lies my Teacher Told Me&quot;, I had trouble making it through this book. The truth is, Reading 500 pages of unrelated stories get a little hard to follow. This is especially true when many of the landmarks he mentions are just not that important to me or most Americans. He does make some valid points and reveal some very interesting history, but this book would only interest those who are very interested in American history.	2001-04-22
US	50104667	R3TBQ0GG52TQIR	0345434013	111890392	It's the Stupidity, Stupid: Why (Some) People Hate Clinton and Why the Rest of Us Have to Watch (Library of Contemporary Thought)	Books	1	6	15	N	N	Waiting for the punchline	Let me start out by noting that I am a strong supporter of Bill Clinton. This book attempts to be funny in the way Al Franken's political satires have succeeded, but Harry Shearer fails miserably. Perhaps I expected the book to humorously explain why some people hate Clinton (that is what the book says it will do, isn't it?). The book rambles on with anti-Republican sentiment and explains ideas most Americans have known about for years. Actually, the one funny point the author makes is the potential sainthood the Republican's have granted Ronald Reagen. The one reason he received such favorable press during his administration was because of his high public approval rating. His administration did nothing more or less than Clinton's  (except inflate the national debt). If Clinton would have traded arms for hostages, he would have been burned at the stake. Nevertheless, if you want quality political satire, read Al Franken's Rush Limbaugh is a big fat idiot..., which succeeds in makes the points that Shearer can not make. Skip this book, I have already told you the funny and/or intelligent parts.	2000-12-26
US	50104667	R416X529PZ3PI	0385306849	421543512	Saucerful of Secrets: The Pink Floyd Odyssey	Books	4	7	8	N	Y	A bitter pill to swallow for Floyd fans	I just finished reading this book and I really enjoyed it. The author gives excellent background on the early days of the group including the demise of Syd Barrett. Perhaps what is the most interesting are the paralells drawn between Pink Floyd and the Beatles. The demise and the reasons for the demise of both bands are similar.  The author takes a very pro-Gilmour stance in the post-Waters era of the band. Although I may not agree with his view, he does an adequate job of supporting his argument. The only reason the I gave the book 4 stars is becuase it is dated material.  The information on goes up to the Momentary Lapse of Reason Tour. No mention is made of the Division Bell or other exploits. This may be due to the death of the author several years back.	2000-12-23
US	50104667	R2G3VHWH0B0UW8	0553574353	741841636	Helter Skelter: The True Story Of The Manson Murders	Books	5	0	0	N	Y	The greatest true crime book ever!!!!	WOW! What a book! Bugliosi takes the reader through each step of the story as it unravels, it is as if you are there! Nobody has ever probed Manson's mind the same way Bugliosi did. He sees Manson's not as a nut, but as an intelligent human being who put on an act to try to have charges against him dismissed. What I find most disturbing about this book is the mind control Manson had over his family. These misfits of society were willing to do anything for Manson. It makes me think of today's isolated teen who sits behind a computer in isolation.  When will the next disaster strike? You and I do not know, but this is an example of what happens when we don't care for our children. I'll get off of my soapbox and tell you this is an excellent book. If you are a real true crime fan, the only thing to ask is &quot; why haven't you read it??&quot;	2000-11-24
