US	50111809	R3IKEW8VVI5S07	0765345005	813218222	Hominids: Volume One of The Neanderthal Parallax	Books	3	5	6	N	Y	Sapiens vs Neanderthalis	\\"Hominids\\" is the first entry in an award-winning trilogy (\\"The Neanderthal Parallax\\") by Robert J. Sawyer, noted Canadian SF writer.  The core story line involves a parallel earth in a parallel universe in which Neanderthals and not Cro-Magnon became the dominant hominid species.  The Neanderthals seem a bit ahead of us in technological development, but only by a decade or so.  During an experiment in quantum computing on the Neanderthal world gone awry, Ponter, a physicist, is somehow transported to our universe.  Like almost all of Sawyer's previous work, although the set-up is based in hard SF, there is little exploration of the real science underlying the quantum teleportation between universes, or what the existence of the phenomenon has to do with the nature of reality, or modern molecular biology or genetics as in Greg Bear's \\"Darwin's Children\\" for example.<br /><br />Rather, like  the best of his work, the major emphasis here is on sociological, psychological and anthropological musings, in particular, how basically similar hominid species evolve radically different social and ethical structures, and how individual humans and Neanderthals as well as larger collectives of each learn to form relationships.  This takes up the majority of the book as well as the subsqequent sequel \\"Humans\\".  I have yet to read the last book, but it is on my list.<br /><br />This is not hard physics- or biology-based SF, but Sawyer playing to his strong suit of socio-anthropological speculation and is well worth a read.	2005-09-06
US	50111809	R1I4CB1GHGJBM8	0439784549	162568542	Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince (Book 6)	Books	4	4	6	N	Y	The Half-Blood Prince ain't half-bad	The first Harry Potter book was very clearly a children's book, or charitably, something in the realm of \\"juvenile fiction\\".  It was very short, something less than half the size of the subsequent entries in the series, and it was written in very broad strokes, almost as a pastiche of a work about sorcerers, witches and magic.  It was undeniably charming, and gave us our first glimpse of a brand new world that has been growing richer and more complex with each new book.  The sophistication and style of the  writing has grown concomitantly, and while it is still true that HP and the Half-Blood Prince is suitable for juveniles, it is most certainly not a children's book.<br /><br />The Half-Blood Prince starts out oh so slowly and I despaired during the first 100 or 150 pages that at least for me, perhaps the magic of Harry Potter had finally worn off.  The  basic formula that had worked so well for the previous 5 books was not much in evidence - the Dursleys barely appeared at all- and there was no new mystery and/or challenge like the TriWizard Tournament, the Chamber of Secrets or the escape from Azkaban to focus on.  This, in part, gives the early part of the book a sort of unfocused feel.  More so than with any book in the series that has come before, the reader needs to be part of the HP club, and to remember well many details of the preceding 2 or 3 volumes to really understand what is going on.<br /><br />All that being said, as other reviewers have noted, the character development is good. As our heroes and heroines get older (they are approaching 17 years of age by book's end) they get more mature and complex, there are age-appropriate loves requited and unrequited and the relationship among Ron, Hermione and Harry develop.  The Harry- Draco feud intensifies, forcing a showdown or two, and Malfoy's malignity grows in a delightful way and becomes better incorporated into the grand scheme of things.<br /><br />Finally, the focus of the story resolves itself into the search for Voldemort and the means to defeat him once and for all.  Much of the book is actually a backstory, told to Harry by Dumbledore and the pensieve, of the origin of Voldemort and his early days.  Some of this comes as a surprise, some not.  But as the Half-Blood Prince enters its final 150 pages, things start to heat up - considerably.  The final 75 pages or so are a no-holds barred, can't-put-it-down page-turner that ranks among the best of the sections that Rowling has written so far.  A widely rumored death occurs, but I bet it is not who you think it is, and for me, I remember that in the land of Hogwarts and magic, all is not always as it seems, what with Polyjuice Potions and shape-shifters and so on.  In any event, the final pages provide a great set-up for the 7th and presumably final volume that I predict will feature a thrilling and satisfactory conclusion.  Way to go JK!  I'm looking forward to number 7.ort and the means to defeat him once and for all.  Much of the book is actually a backstory, told to Harry by Dumbledore and the pensieve, of the origin of Voldemort and his early days.  Some of this comes as a surprise, some not.  But as the Half-Blood Prince enters its final 150 pages, things start to heat up - considerably.  The final 75 pages or so are a no-holds barred, can't-put-it-down page-turner that ranks among the best of the sections that Rowling has written so far.  A widely rumored death occurs, but I bet it is not who you think it is, and for me, I remember that in the land of Hogwarts and magic, all is not always as it seems, what with Polyjuice Potions and shape-shifters and so on.  In any event, the final pages provide a great set-up for the 7th and presumably final volume that I predict will feature a thrilling and satisfactory conclusion.  Way to go JK!  I'm looking forward to number 7.	2005-08-06
US	50111809	R1PFV7DKH8C3SB	0345457889	276585005	Exultant (Destiny's Children)	Books	3	5	5	N	N	Not quite exultant over Exultant	Exultant is the story of a pivotal event in the millennia-long human-Xeelee war.  As such the book takes place in Baxter's familiar future history universe that has served as the setting for a large proportion of his novels (Raft, Ring, Vacuum Diagrams etc.).  Although this novel is billed as (and is in a sense a sort of) a sequel to \\"Coalescent\\" and/or the 2nd entry in the Destiny's Children Trilogy, it can be read independently of the former and serves at least as much as a sequel/prequel to any of the other books that take place in the Xeelee universe.<br /><br />As usual, the physics is great.  This is hard SF at its best.  The most interesting parts are a back story introduced in the last third of the book consisting of very brief chapters interposed between the chapters of the main story.  These tell a cosmological story of the birth of the universe and the birth of life. Along the way these brief interludes address the anthropic principle, the matter-antimatter disequilibrium, symmetry breaking and many other issues currently the subject of intense study and speculation in modern cosmology and physics.<br /><br />However, the physics aside, the main story itself is just OK.  Since it takes place in Baxter's familiar universe at a specified time (approximately 20,000-25,000 years in the future), from Baxter's other writings that describe events that transpire up to millions of years in the future, we know that there are constraints on how the story must end.  The main characters are not so believable nor is the core around which the book is written - the idea that mankind has stagnated intellectually, socially and technologically to the extent described in the book.  Nor is the idea that Nilis, who is a sort of muddled mid-level governmental functionary, can interpret old \\"lost\\" scientific literature and new scientific data to reach conclusions far advanced beyond those of his contemporary scientists that are as novel and earthshaking as those of Einstein 20,000 years ago.  But maybe these are quibbles.  Baxter is still a great writer and his Xeelee universe/future history is still fascinating.  I look forward to the last in this series to come, and still regard Baxter as one of the best currently writing hard SF.  Exultant just wouldn't be the one that I recommend to someone to introduce them to his writing.ut maybe these are quibbles.  Baxter is still a great writer and his Xeelee universe/future history is still fascinating.  I look forward to the last in this series to come, and still regard Baxter as one of the best currently writing hard SF.  Exultant just wouldn't be the one that I recommend to someone to introduce them to his writing.	2005-05-14
US	50111809	RVZHQ213U21O5	034545250X	844525845	Sunstorm (A Time Odyssey, Book 2)	Books	2	27	30	N	N	Sunburned	This is my week for sunny sequels that weren't (very good or much like real sequels).  First Greg Benford's, \\"Sunborn\\" and now Clarke and Baxter's \\"Sunstorm\\".  Both follow-ups to excellent novels (\\"The Martian Race\\" and \\"Time's Eye\\", respectively) by top-notch SF authors, both terribly disappointing.<br /><br />\\"Sunstorm\\" is a sequel to \\"Time's Eye\\" in the sense that one of the main characters from the former novel, Bisesa Dutt, is also one  of the main chracters in the new novel.  It also has something to do with the Firstborn.  But there the sequelity ends.  In this respect the dust jacket blurb was astonishingly misleading.  It reads in part, \\"Why did the Fristborn create Mir?  Why was Bisesa taken there and then brought back on the day after her original disappearance?  Bisesa's questions receive a chilling answer...\\"  Not!  None of these questions was addressed, nor was anything else from the first novel including the fate of Mir and those left there, the purpose of the \\"eyes\\", the motives behind the actions of the Firstborn etc.<br /><br />As a short (~330 pages) hard SF novel by two greats, \\"Sunstorm\\" was just OK.  But as a sequel that very clearly promised to answer all those intriguing mysteries set up in the first novel it fails badly.  The (already shown to be inaccurate) dust jacket says that \\"Clarke and Baxter draw their epic to a triumphant conclusion...\\", further suggesting that this is the end, but the book's subtitle \\"A Time Odyssey:2\\" sugests that maybe there is more to come.  If there is, it almost has to be better than this one.	2005-04-24
US	50111809	R1CQB67Z74OISZ	0446530581	777304769	The Sunborn	Books	3	11	11	N	N	Benford's Been Better	This is a sequel of sorts to Benford's \\"The Martian Race\\" (which was great).  Unlike many sequels, however, it is irrelevant whether you've read the preceding novel or not.  It uses two of the main characters from the \\"Martian Race\\" and obviously takes place in the same universe but that's about it.<br /><br />It is an interesting twist on the \\"first contact\\" theme with not one but three new alien species discovered and communicated with.  There is a tie-in to the \\"The Martian Race\\" at the very end that is not much of a suprise, having been pretty well telegraphed by the middle of the short novel.<br /><br />Benford is a great SF writer, as well as a talented physicist and  author. He is and has been one of the best authors of hard SF  since the publication of \\"Timescape\\" some 23 years ago.  But this one is a little disappointing.  The human (and alien) characters are not well developed and are mostly flat and irrelevant placeholders to this plot-based novel.  There is no real suspense and the hard SF is minimal.  Of course, none of this will stop me from rushing out and getting the next Benford novel as soon as it's published, since he is one of my favorite SF authors, interesting and tremendously talented.  Everyone can have an off-day.  This was one of his.	2005-04-16
US	50111809	R3FVY59BOHGMH5	0553804146	245113934	Life Expectancy: A Novel	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Exceeded Expections	The blurb on the book jacket tells something of the set-up - Jimmy Tock lives under the fear of 5 horrible days to come in his first 30 years, prophesied by his grandfather on his deathbed at the time of Jimmy's birth - but fails to convey the richness, quirkiness and good humor of this short novel by Koontz. Like Koontz's recent \\"Odd Thomas\\", Life Expectancy is suffused with a generous helping of humor that plays well against the tension of the thriller/mystery that is the main story. I mean, pastry chefs, clowns and aerialists as the main characters? The novel is certainly Dean Koontz, but in a number of places it was like Dean Koontz blended with John Irving as in \\"A Prayer for Owen Meany\\" and \\"The World According to Garp\\".<br /><br />The main characters are all very likeable and clearly drawn out, the dialog is good (there is lots of snappy repartee among the main characters), and there are several twists, some of them telegraphed, others not.  There is little or none of the patented Koontz horror or SF here, just a straightforward little novel with some thrill and chills.<br /><br />I think Koontz is getting better with age. This book is a good read and I recommend it to fans of Koontz as well as those just looking for a few enjoyable hours of reading.	2005-04-02
US	50111809	R1WJY50B9EJ5TZ	0345348656	150650131	Lord Foul's Bane (The Chronicles of Thomas Covenant the Unbeliever, Book 1)	Books	3	9	12	N	Y	Thomas Covenant, the Antagonistic Protagonist	I recently picked up this set of books (The [First] Chronicles) after seeing it referred to in several places, including in a literary analysis of Stephen King's Dark Tower series. The references to it all mentioned a complex and well-done fantasy world a la Tolkien and the principal character, Thomas Covenant, whose main characteristic was that he denied the reality of the new fantasy Land he finds himsef in (hence his title, The Unbeliever). This is all correct. But I was not prepared for the rather unlikeable nature of Thomas himself.<br /><br />Covenant has recently contracted leprosy, which cost him two fingers on one hand. While he is in the leprosarium getting stabilized, his wife divorces him and takes their infant son away with her. This would certainly ruin any one's day and it sure ruins Covenant's, especially after he finds himself magically transported to a mysterious new land called \\"the Land\\". Covenant is a whiny, short tempered, mean-spirited, neurotic mess. And he is our reluctant hero. Everything about the Land (except the bad guy, Lord Foul and his agents) is beautiful. Nature and mankind in perfect balance. There is magic in the air (literally). All this is in sharp contrast to Covenant who is cranky, nasty and always complaining about how his leprosy limits his life and screaming \\"Don't touch me! I'm a leper!\\" Which is a bit odd since the author takes great pains to point out repeatedly that leprosy is barely contagious. But this series seems to be about contrasts - the dark and evil Lord Foul and the beautiful Land, the miserable doubting Thomas and the wonderful inhabitants of the Land etc.<br /><br />I thought the story dragged in places, particularly in the first book. It was boring to hear Covenant whining and complaining all the time, and being unable to convey any positive emotion effectively. But many of the characters introduced offset Covenant's perpetual gloom nicely. And, wanting to avoid giving anything crucial away, I think it is safe to say that Covenant seems to get a little less gloomy during the course of the second and third books.<br /><br />I have read many reviews of this series that praised the depth and breadth of the creation of the Land and its inhabitants. While I did enjoy reading the three books, I was bothered by not knowing the rules. How does one get to be a Lord? Why do they have more magical powers than everyone else. Where did Lord Foul come from and why is he so powerful? How do the Gravelingas do what they do? What are the bounds and rules for the magics of stonecraft and woodcraft? And so on. While there was some very rich imagery in many sceces, I was constantly frustrated by never feeling like anything made internally consistent sense or that I understood how anything worked.<br /><br />And Donaldson sure has a strange way with words. He has a prodigious vocabulary but often uses strange words (and non-words) like effectless and effectlessness instead of ineffective and ineffectiveness, uses nouns as adverbs and other grammatical oddities. This all must be on purpose since he surely had an editor, but I do not understand why he did it.  And to compare his writing to that of some of the greats of literature as some reviewers have done is something that I do not agree with.<br /><br />On balance, I'm glad I read these books, and I liked them (and I am going to read the second series of 3), but I would not classify them among the all-time classics of fantasy literature as so many others have done.Covenant seems to get a little less gloomy during the course of the second and third books.    I have read many reviews of this series that praised the depth and breadth of the creation of the Land and its inhabitants. While I did enjoy reading the three books, I was bothered by not knowing the rules. How does one get to be a Lord? Why do they have more magical powers than everyone else. Where did Lord Foul come from and why is he so powerful? How do the Gravelingas do what they do? What are the bounds and rules for the magics of stonecraft and woodcraft? And so on. While there was some very rich imagery in many sceces, I was constantly frustrated by never feeling like anything made internally consistent sense or that I understood how anything worked.    And Donaldson sure has a strange way with words. He has a prodigious vocabulary but often uses strange words (and non-words) like effectless and effectlessness instead of ineffective and ineffectiveness, uses nouns as adverbs and other grammatical oddities. This all must be on purpose since he surely had an editor, but I do not understand why he did it.  And to compare his writing to that of some of the greats of literature as some reviewers have done is something that I do not agree with.    On balance, I'm glad I read these books, and I liked them (and I am going to read the second series of 3), but I would not classify them among the all-time classics of fantasy literature as so many others have done.	2005-03-11
US	50111809	R3MXQ13419Z7MJ	0345430352	998314402	Judgment Day	Books	4	1	2	N	Y	Good Judgment	This was a quite enjoyable page-turner.  I'm surprised that it didn't make more of a a stir  when it was originally released as Millenium Rising (Judgment Day is a better and more appropriate title) a few years ago (by that I mean, How did I misss it?).  It is an interesting and novel blend of religion/bible/prophecy based fiction (theo-fi?), medical thriller, Armageddon-Ragnarok-type end-of-the-world thiller and plain old SF.  There are some interesting characters, some of which are a little more than every-so slightly stereotyped (still, you have to love the Tibetan monk) and the plot is interesting if you can overlook a couple of largish holes (which I was happy to do), with a couple of cute twists.<br /><br />In places it sort of reminded me of scenes from a kind of G-rated Stephen King or Michael Crichton novel.  So, with no sex and very little gore or violence, those of you with who don't like that sort of stuff can feel free to dive right in.<br /><br />I think this is a new writer with a lot of talent and imagination and look forward to more of her work.	2005-02-03
US	50111809	R1NIHZRKVVLU40	0765309033	374457460	Factoring Humanity	Books	3	7	7	N	Y	Contact-lite	This is the third R.J. Sawyer book I've read recently (the others were Calculating God and End of an Era). Obviously I liked the others enough to keep going.  And this was my favorite of the lot.  I rated them all at 3 stars, but this one is really more like 3.5 or 3.75, but the rating scale is of limited resolution.<br /><br />So too is the science in his fiction.  Sawyer does not write \\"hard SF\\".  It's more like hard SF-lite.  This one borrowed heavily from Sagan's \\"Contact\\" (which was hard SF, par exemplar, and also had great character development and deep philosophical implications on several levels, but I digress..) and dabbles a bit in 4 dimensional geometry, quantum computing and cosmic consciousness.  The characters are sort of ill-defined (except for the AI who seemed deeper and more human than the homo sapiens), which seems a hallmark of the 3 Sawyer books I have read, but the plot keeps things moving, also a Sawyer hallmark.  I think if you expect  Sawyer to be the next great writer in hard SF you are in for a disappointment. But if you want an enjoyable light read that has just a bit of science in the fiction, Sawyer is your guy for plot-driven page-turners.  I will try at least a few more of his.	2005-01-05
US	50111809	R29HXTOFJWK5D8	0312876939	631611062	End of An Era	Books	3	4	7	N	Y	Jurassic Sparks?	Robert J. Sawyer sure has a thing for cancer, Canada and craters.  All three figure prominently in both his Calculating God, the first of his books that I read and this one, the second, as do dinosaurs, mass extinction, paleontology and the Royal Museum of Natural History.  I have seen him compared to some of the greats of hard science fiction but that is I think a big miscasting. There is precious little hard science in his fiction, but there are interesting premises.  This one mixes up time travel, first contact, alternate histories and various theories about the cause of the Tertiary-Cretaceous mass extinction to a pleasant if not overly deep result.  Like Calculating God, It was fun, it was short, it was not overly ambitious, and it was short on the kind of science that I usually like in my hard SF.  But like the last book, I still liked it OK, and I will try one or two more looking for that big story that I have a feeling might be inside him somewhere.	2004-11-02
US	50111809	R12ZD35W1X2CUX	0812580354	77230724	Calculating God	Books	3	6	6	N	Y	Theo-philo-sci fi	Interesting extension of the First Contact storyline.  Alien spider lands in Canada and says take me to your paleontologist. It gives nothing away to say that the aliens are investigating mass extinctions that happened simultaneously on their world and ours 5 times in the last few hundred million years, and that the aliens believe that this is evidence for the existence of a creator, i.e., God, and the aliens are searching for him.  Sawyer bolsters this hypothetical scenario with the very real arguments behind the anthropic principle (e.g., that the values of the fundamental constants of physics have been precisely adjusted to make our universe suitable for the existnce of matter, energy and life as we know it) plus some other ones having to do with the properties of water (that clearly only apply to life that is very much like ours) to explain why the aliens are so sure that there must be a God.<br /><br />All of this is laid out quite early in the book and the premise is great.  But the execution leaves a little to be desired.  The writing is fine and the two main characters, the alien and the paleontologist, are well drawn and fleshed out, and Sawyer makes the reader care about them.<br /><br />But there is an interesting subplot involving the the explanation for the disappearance of all the other intelligent races that the aliens have encountered in their search, and the palenotologist's battle with cancer that are not handled or resolved so well.  And the ending is also wanting.<br /><br />But there is enough here to warrant a read, and I will certainly try another of Sawyer's books.	2004-10-20
US	50111809	R1PKGVN7SESIYS	1880418622	871670140	The Dark Tower (The Dark Tower, Book 7)	Books	3	21	27	N	Y	The ka-tet is kaput	OK. It's over, finally.  The level of anticipation and high expectation that SK no doubt had to deal with over this book must have been unimaginable (even for him).  So no matter what he wrote, some readers would be disappointed.  On the other hand, some readers, the Tower Junkies, would have raved uncritically over anything Tower-related.  As you can see from the previous reviews which range from 1 to 5 stars, this is exactly what happened.<br /><br />For me, I was more than a little disappointed.  This was far from the worst book (or even the worst SK book) I have read, but it was equally far from the best of SK, or even the best of the Dark Tower series.  I find no great fault with the ending itself (the coda - the first ending is a terrible cop-out), or with SK's having inserted himself firmly into the middle of the plot in the Song of Susannah.  The story is still interesting, and the 5 main characters have been with us for so long and are so well developed that their death scenes are powerful and affecting.  And I still like the way that King writes.  So what's the problem?<br /><br />My biggest gripes have to do with the way the story line and the characters (mostly Roland) morphed from the first 4 entries into almost unrecognizable entities by the very end, and with the fact that there was essentially no resolution of all the loose ends from the preceding 3200 pages.<br /><br />In the beginning the gunslinger is on a quest to find out how and why the world (his, not ours) has moved on and to try to prevent or reverse it.  Central to this is reaching the Dark Tower (and we are increasingly drawn to wonder what it is, who made it and why is it so important?).  But by the last book, the quest itself and its driving force has changed and it turns out to not be the Dark Tower per se, but the saving of the beams that support the tower, that is of critical importance.  Reaching the Tower itself turns out to be tremendously anticlimactic.<br /><br />Even the way the characters speak changes over the course of the books.  Roland starts off speaking English that is much like ours but flavored with some archaic colloquialisms and a few really strange sounding words.  The rest of the ka-tet all sounded like they spoke our English.  It stays this way through the first 4 books.  But by the end of the Dark Tower, everyone (except Detta an Oy) was speaking some odd sounding dialect that was mostly that of the folks in Calla Bryn Sturgis from the Wolves of the Calla entry.  Lots of thees and sais and so on, if it does ya.  Cry your pardon but what's up with that?<br /><br />The ka-tet was assembled from characters that all come from different worlds and times.  The assumption (at least my assumption)  was that by the end of the series, the relationship between these different worlds and times will be explained and make sense, including the inclusion of the fiction of SK and the author himself as well characters from other SK books and even other unrelated works of fiction (Harry Potter based weapons??) .  But they are not, nor are many, many other loose ends from the earlier Dark Tower books and other SK Dark Tower related works.  No, an author need not explain every little thing, and leaving stuff to the reader's imagination is good, but this was too much.  I feel cheated by this, having anticipated and thought about all sorts of possible  explanations for the relationships between the different worlds, the different histories that apparently happened in all of them and all the other clues scattered around in so many of SK's books.  However, as it turns out, there is no explanation forthcoming, no tying together of these things<br /><br />The arch-villains (and many other reviewers have noted this  already) turned out to be basically irrelevant to the story.  Flagg, Mordred and the Crimson King were amazingly, laughably weak and ineffective, and were dispatched with such ease that the reader is left wondering in retrospect what ever was the big deal about these guys in the first place.  This was one of the weakest and most disappointing aspects of the book.<br /><br />So, all in all, the book wasn't bad, it just wasn't very good, and nowhere near what the near-mythical status of this series, which King himself styles as the be-all and end-all of his literary oeuvre, deserved.  Yes, it's the journey that is the thing, but the Dark Tower (and the preceding Song of Susannah which together with the Dark Tower were quite obviously written as one book that was too long to publish as one entry), unlike the preceding 5 entries, is not such a compelling trip either.  It is far from vintage King, and I would recommend at least 10 of his other works to a reader wanting to know what all the hype about Stephen King is about before this one.ect what ever was the big deal about these guys in the first place.  This was one of the weakest and most disappointing aspects of the book. <br /> <br />So, all in all, the book wasn't bad, it just wasn't very good, and nowhere near what the near-mythical status of this series, which King himself styles as the be-all and end-all of his literary oeuvre, deserved.  Yes, it's the journey that is the thing, but the Dark Tower (and the preceding Song of Susannah which together with the Dark Tower were quite obviously written as one book that was too long to publish as one entry), unlike the preceding 5 entries, is not such a compelling trip either.  It is far from vintage King, and I would recommend at least 10 of his other works to a reader wanting to know what all the hype about Stephen King is about before this one.	2004-10-09
US	50111809	RAEGE33VBHYQ9	0553802496	471304969	Odd Thomas	Books	5	0	0	N	N	An amazingly engaging and unusual hero is born	Koontz is one of America's most prolific writers.  Like most really prolific writers, sometimes he's bad, sometimes he's good, sometimes he's great.  This time he was very, very good.  Without revealing any major plot spoilers, and trying to say something more than the book cover blurb, Odd Thomas is n extremely  likeable character, not completely believable but not too far out either.  Yes, he sees ghosts, yes he has great intuition. No, this is nothing like the 6th Sense, although there is a pretty sizeable twist near the end that will trap those who have not been paying close attention.  For a guy who rides with Elvis, Odd seems pretty normal.  So does his girlfriend.  So do his friends, who are also likeable.<br /><br />Although Koontz does his best not to telegraph the ending, throwing in a couple of red herrings, the final outcome is pretty predictable by the time you get 3/4 of the way through. The endgame story reminded me a lot of Stephen King's Insomnia in a couple of ways.  But to be fair, there is a great deal of suspense as the plot comes to its conclusion, and I enjoyed the book and gave it to my wife who hates almost everything I like and she liked it.  So I reckon 4 stars is pretty fair.  I'd like to see a sequel but there is no guarantee of that in the book	2004-09-01
US	50111809	R25ILGAW1U8OQI	1880418592	782981224	Song of Susannah (The Dark Tower, Book 6)	Books	3	4	9	N	N	Oh Susannah (yawn)	Hurry.  Please.  Give us that last entry and let's see if the trip was really heading somewhere or if the journey itself was really the thing all along (which wouldn't necessarily be so bad).<br />I thought this was the weakest of all the entries in this terrific series.  There wasn't much action, nothing at all was resolved, and it was basically just an intermediary between the Wolves of the Calla and the last entry.  In  fact, I was left with the strong impression, based on the relative brevity of this entry in the series, and the lack of anything really seminal happening, that this and the last entry were never really intended to be separate novels, but that perhaps SK came up with one of his patented 1100 page novels for the last entry and the publishers decided to break it in two.<br />In any event, he can still write.  And we still like the characters, even if there is not much more development (as there was, for example, in &quot;Wolves&quot;).  The biggest complaint seems to be SK's merging of worlds and his inclusion of his own novels and himself (at least a writer of horror named Stephen King) into the main plot line.  Fine, I say.  Could be interesting.  Let's wait and see how it turns out. I've a feeling that all will be well and there will be some kind of SF twist involving parallel universes of something like that to account for the self-inclusion.<br />I'm still a fan, and I can't wait for the last Dark Tower.  But this one was a bit disapointing.	2004-07-18
US	50111809	RUODL6G04G5Q3	0375412883	331182632	The Fabric of the Cosmos: Space, Time, and the Texture of Reality	Books	5	5	8	N	N	A great accomplishment	This book is amazing. Apparently a number of folks agree with me given the 4.5 star average it has gotten from the preceding 60 reviews.  There were some pans, however.  In contradistinction to what some of the  naysayers (and some of the kuods too) have written , this is most certainly *not* a rehash of the &quot;Elegant Universe&quot;, which I also read and liked a lot.  This is something totally different.  This is not about string theory or quantum mechanics or relativity or the nature of time - but it does contain discussion of all of those.  This book is about nothing less than  cosmology, the structure of the universe, just exactly as the title indicates.<br />I have read a number of lay (read  - not for physicists but not for your average college drop-out either) physics books over the years, mostly having to do with quantum mechainics and the nature of physical reality or relavity.  Prior to &quot;Fabric&quot;, I think my favorite was John Gribbin's &quot;In Search of Schroedinger's Cat&quot;.  I thought I had a pretty good grasp of the essentials of quantum mechanics for a layman, and learned relatively little that was really new from most of the others.  But I found a lot of new material in&quot;Fabric&quot;.  The way the quantum measurement problem was dealt with or resolted was great - new to me.  The discussion of entanglement, and why everything is in fact *not* connected to everything else was also new to me, and well done.  There is a ton of new physics from the late 1990s that is reviewed here.  This book contains everything a newcomer to quantum mechanics needs, but also has tons to offer folks who have read on this subject before.  And that alone is is quite an accomplishment,. more than worth the price of admission.<br />But, at least for me, the most ennjoyable sections of the book were the ones middle that dealt with relativity, both general and special, how they relate to older and current cosomological models, and unification with quantum mechanics.  I thought I sort of understood relativity (again, at an educated layman's level), but I learned a ton from this book (gravity depends not only on mass and energy but also pressure!!).  The early foundations of relativity and the relation to Mach were great.  The relation of Einstein to modern cosmology, Higg's fields, the big bang, inflaton theory, repulsive gravity, the universe expanding at a rate potentially faster than the speed of light (with no contradiction to relativity!!) - these were all new to me, and explained very well.<br />One could quibble with the style a little.  The constant use of analogies and examples starring the Simpson's or Mulder and Scully might turn some people off.  I didn't mind then, but I didn't love them either.  The book is very long - perhaps too long, and there is a fair amount of recapitulation.  This recapping bothered me in the beginning until I realized (about three quarters fof the way through the book) that there was so much new stuff here that I was going to have to read the book again, pretty soon.<br />There is a tremendous amount of material here, all of it interesting, very up-to-date,and all of it well presented.  If you are at all interested in modern physics, and the nature of the universe, this book is a great read.	2004-07-12
US	50111809	R26E3KTSED9CFK	0375412883	331182632	The Fabric of the Cosmos: Space, Time, and the Texture of Reality	Books	5	8	11	N	N	A great accomplishment	This book is amazing. Apparently a number of folks agree with me given the 4.5 star average it has gotten from the preceding 60 reviews.  There were some pans, however.  In contradistinction to what some of the  naysayers (and some of the kuods too) have written , this is most certainly *not* a rehash of the &quot;Elegant Universe&quot;, which I also read and liked a lot.  This is something totally different.  This is not about string theory or quantum mechanics or relativity or the nature of time - but it does contain discussion of all of those.  This book is about nothing less than  cosmology, the structure of the universe, just exactly as the title indicates.<br />I have read a number of lay (read  - not for physicists but not for your average college drop-out either) physics books over the years, mostly having to do with quantum mechainics and the nature of physical reality or relavity.  Prior to &quot;Fabric&quot;, I think my favorite was John Gribbin's &quot;In Search of Schroedinger's Cat&quot;.  I thought I had a pretty good grasp of the essentials of quantum mechanics for a layman, and learned relatively little that was really new from most of the others.  But I found a lot of new material in&quot;Fabric&quot;.  The way the quantum measurement problem was dealt with or resolved was great - new to me.  The discussion of entanglement, and why everything is in fact *not* connected to everything else was also new to me, and well done.  There is a ton of new physics from the late 1990s that is reviewed here.  This book contains everything a newcomer to quantum mechanics needs, but also has tons to offer folks who have read on this subject before.  And that alone is is quite an accomplishment,. more than worth the price of admission.<br />But, at least for me, the most ennjoyable sections of the book were the ones middle that dealt with relativity, both general and special, how they relate to older and current cosomological models, and unification with quantum mechanics.  I thought I sort of understood relativity (again, at an educated layman's level), but I learned a ton from this book (gravity depends not only on mass and energy but also pressure!!).  The early foundations of relativity and the relation to Mach were great.  The relation of Einstein to modern cosmology, Higg's fields, the big bang, inflaton theory, repulsive gravity, the universe expanding at a rate potentially faster than the speed of light (with no contradiction to relativity!!) - these were all new to me, and explained very well.<br />One could quibble with the style a little.  The constant use of analogies and examples starring the Simpson's or Mulder and Scully might turn some people off.  I didn't mind then, but I didn't love them either.  The book is very long - perhaps too long, and there is a fair amount of recapitulation.  This recapping bothered me in the beginning until I realized (about three quarters fof the way through the book) that there was so much new stuff here that I was going to have to read the book again, pretty soon.<br />There is a tremendous amount of material here, all of it interesting, very up-to-date,and all of it well presented.  If you are at all interested in modern physics, and the nature of the universe, this book is a great read.chanics.  I thought I sort of understood relativity (again, at an educated layman's level), but I learned a ton from this book (gravity depends not only on mass and energy but also pressure!!).  The early foundations of relativity and the relation to Mach were great.  The relation of Einstein to modern cosmology, Higg's fields, the big bang, inflaton theory, repulsive gravity, the universe expanding at a rate potentially faster than the speed of light (with no contradiction to relativity!!) - these were all new to me, and explained very well.<br />One could quibble with the style a little.  The constant use of analogies and examples starring the Simpson's or Mulder and Scully might turn some people off.  I didn't mind then, but I didn't love them either.  The book is very long - perhaps too long, and there is a fair amount of recapitulation.  This recapping bothered me in the beginning until I realized (about three quarters fof the way through the book) that there was so much new stuff here that I was going to have to read the book again, pretty soon.<br />There is a tremendous amount of material here, all of it interesting, very up-to-date,and all of it well presented.  If you are at all interested in modern physics, and the nature of the universe, this book is a great read.	2004-07-12
US	50111809	RXHK0NY684LB0	1880418568	446733041	Wolves of the Calla (Dark Tower)	Books	4	1	1	N	Y	Good to the last drop	This is excellent, vintage King.  Not quite as good as Volume IV in the series (although very similar in feel), but still a great read.  The main story is that of the ka-tet's intervention to save a town from a bunch of marauding who-knows-whats that come every 23 years to steal one of each pair of twins and then return them later horribly afflicted.  This was OK, but I found it not as interesting as the back story.  Pere Callahan is clearly identified early on as the Father Callahan from King's Salem's Lot.  What's up with that?  How can there be a fictional character in the \\"real\\" world of Roland et al?  This leads to more questions about the nature of Roland's world and its relation to that of the rose, and to our own and to the worlds of many of King's previous novels to which allusions are sprinkled throught the text. All this leads up to a rather suprising cliff-hanger ending which has upset some readers and reviewers, but which I thought was great.  I can't wait for the next volume to come out.	2004-03-16
US	50111809	R15LB3JLNLMQ6Q	0380978938	591476242	Ilium	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Simmons at the top of his game	Ilium was great.  I've read everthing else that Dan Simmons has written and Ilium is as good as it gets.  The writing is snappy, the plot is intriguing and, well, Simmons leaves you wanting more - literally- because Ilium isn't so much the first part of a novel and sequel set as it is part one of a much longer single book.  The forthcoming Olympos is not a sequel - it will be the last half of a single book that starts with Ilium.<br />There is a lot to think about here.  The quantum teleportation idea that is at the core of the story in more than one way is scientifically plausible and the rest of the triple-interlaced plot keeps you guessing about a lot of things - what has happened on earth, where and when exactly are Harman and company when their adventure begins, who and what are the Olympians etc.  All in all, this was a lot of fun and I can't wait for the sequel - err... end of the story.	2004-03-13
US	50111809	R2ZJ2R74EUWBV	0345384687	858634254	The Guns of the South	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Great alternative history	This was my first Harry Turtledove book.  The dust jacket says it all.  Mysterious strangers arrive when things look bleakest for the South and hand over a bunch of AK-47s.  Instantly, the war turns.  There are lots of great scenes including the fall of Washington and Lee's inauguration as 2nd president of the Confederate States.<br />There is little science in the science fictoin but it doesn't matter.  The main thing is the &quot;what if&quot; the South were to prevail.  I found Lee to be an especially well drawn character, even if his thoughts and actions seemed contrary to what I remember being taught in my damnyankee education.<br />The book ends shortly after the end of the war, and I found myself wanting a sequel that would tell me what happened in the subsequent years.  But apparently this is not to be, at least from Turtledove.  All in all, a great and quick read that I highly recommend.	2004-03-13
US	50111809	R3OAQTR6Z4R4VL	0767911857	603654344	A Long Strange Trip: The Inside History of the Grateful Dead	Books	3	9	9	N	Y	Time warped and uneven but still fascinating	One one hand it makes perfect sense to have the band's publicist write its biography because he will be privy to lots of cool inside info.  On the other hand having someone who worked for the band as its publicist almost certainly guarantees a lack of balance and impartiality.  Both of these things are true about A Long Strange Trip. There is also a strange kind of time compression in which the very earliest days of the band and Jerry are dwelled upon at length  , even though this predates McNally's personal experience.  In contrast, the last 15 or 20 years of the band with which McNally had the most personal knowledge are crammed into a small fraction of the book, and the story of the decline and fall of Jerry is almost not discussed. But this is still by far the best biography of the band and is full of cool anecdotes and, I think, gives a pretty good picture of what the boys were after when the whole thing began in the mid 1960s.	2003-04-19
US	50111809	RTXPW6MBQV18H	0375411992	838568330	Blackwood Farm (The Vampire Chronicles)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Not bad at all	It was with some trepidation that I started Blackwood Farm, since the last few entries in the Vampire Chronicles were kind of weak, especially compared to the earliest ones.  But I was pleasantly surprised.  What I liked best about it was what the most recent previous reviewers seemed to object to the most.  It was't about Lestat whose only role is basically that of an audience to the story of young Quinn Blackwood's life as Quinn relates it to Lestat whom he has awakened in order to ask for help in getting rid of an increasingly malignant spirit.<br />This is clearly the begining of a new story line that I expect will continue for one or more additional books in which Rice intends to marry (perhaps literally) the Vampire Chronicles with the Mayfair witch saga. I liked it and look forward to the continuation.	2003-04-19
US	50111809	R37BU8DY5ECRUV	0375504397	237509158	Black House: A Novel	Books	3	1	2	N	Y	The Talisman it ain't	Disappointing sequel. Maybe you're damned if you do (stay too closely to the original so you get accused of re-hashing old material) and damned if you don't (stay close enough so that fans of the original will find many of the same things in the sequel that they liked so much about the original).  Here, SK is damned 'cause he didn't.  This is hardly a sequel at all in the commonly accepted sense.  Not much 'travelin', not much territories, not much Speedy, no twinners etc.  About the only thing the two books have in common is the name of the protagonist. That being said, it wasn't bad, just disappointing to this reader who counts The Talisman among the best of King's past efforts.	2002-06-23
US	50111809	R2MTFOWQBU5TXS	0743235150	796500127	Everything's Eventual: 14 Dark Tales	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Uneven but still good	Not the best of King's anthologies but still easily worth the price of admission. Yes, I guess many of these stories have appeared in one form or another before, but I hadn't seen them (and I am an inveterate King fan).  1408 and Everything's Eventual were my favorites - classic King - and all in all I enjoyed this collection a lot more (perhaps because I expected less) than several of SK's recent novels.	2002-06-23
US	50111809	RMT6GT1OPHLAJ	1576107019	831530350	Mac OS X Little Black Book: A Complete Guide to Migrating and Setting Up Mac OS X	Books	3	0	0	N	Y	Not for experienced users	The title of my review says it all.	2002-06-23
US	50111809	RIBHHBNFH6048	0786890436	781732773	The Diary of Ellen Rimbauer: My Life at Rose Red	Books	4	6	7	N	N	"You can fool some of the people..."	A light, fluffy book perfect for a medium-long plane flight.  More enjoyable than several of King's recent \\"real\\" novels, it is not at all clear who actually wrote it.  Although the ideas in it are very King-like, the writing seems somehow softer and les graphic than King's and I suspect that it may have been written by someone else in collaboration with King.  But by far the most amazing and interesting thing about the book is to follow the link given in the book which points to a working web site that purports to be that of the college that \\"Professor Reardon\\" works at. It's cute but is obviously not a real university site (all of which use the .edu domain).  However, that has not stopped dozens and dozens of extremely gullible and not-too-bright folks from writing reams of e-mails arguing about whether the Diary (which was originally published without Stephen King's name appearing anywhere) and the movie itself (!!!) were real or not.  Apparently, many do.  Get the book.  Follow the links to related sites and see for yourself.  Well worth the price of admission.	2002-06-20
US	50111809	R2LN66XDEQ58YY	0446605158	184074149	The Reality Dysfunction: Emergence - Part I	Books	3	8	9	N	Y	Great idea.. disappointing execution	This is the first part of a 6 book (3 2-part books) series spanning over 3500 pages.  It is not actually 6 books or even 3, but one incredibly long novel.  The breaks at the end of each book are strictly for purposes of publishing and binding, and have little or nothing to do with natural break points in the story. None of the books stands on its own, so don't even think about starting this one unless you intend to read all 3500+ pages.<br />I cannot fathom why the book is so long.  I seems to me that it could have been shortened by at least 50% with absolutely no loss of content or style.  But this is consistent with what appears to be an overall complete lack of editorial input throughout all the volumes.  There are tons of grammatical errors and typos that could have been fixed by a decent editor but weren't. But these aside Hamilton is still only a mediocre writer who lacks the ability possessed in spades by colleagues like Bear, Brin and Benford.<br />The main plot idea is great -  souls of dead people returning from the &quot;beyond&quot; to &quot;possess&quot; living humans.  The universe that Hamilton constructs, with nanobiotech playing a central role is also fascinating.<br />However, although sounding like a hard sf novel, there is actually very little in the way of mechanistic explanations for any of the really cool stuff like &quot;affinity bonding&quot;, a form of telepathy, or the &quot;neural nanonic&quot; implants that lots of folks have. Instead we are supposed to basically take all these things and more on faith.<br />The last 100 pages of the last book wrap things up in a nice neat little package, but in a way that is ultimately not very satisfying.<br />All in all, a valiant effort but one that the author couldn't quite pull off.	2001-07-29
US	50111809	R13BB2ZPRAGP9X	0743211383	241269653	Dreamcatcher	Books	3	2	3	N	Y	Been there, done that...	I have been a huge Stephen King fan since I picked up a paperback version of Carrie around 1978.  I own a copy of all the fiction he has written (most in hardback purchased the day it went on sale) - and some of the non-fiction.  I have often said that I would like reading King even if he wrote the text on a cereal box.  So this ain't yer typical King-bashing that has so annoyed me in the past when it came from others. Yes I know he was in a bad accident and it wasn't clear if he was ever going to write again, and if he did, there was speculation that he wouldn't be the same and so on.<br />So now there's this new book (that I advance-ordered from Amazon).  Let's see... Haven't I seen the telepathic aliens theme explored before?  Oh that's right - &quot;The Tommyknockers&quot;.  And isn't there something familiar about a tight-knit band of friends who shared an intense experience when children that shaped and influenced their adult lives and who must band together to stave off a really nasty alien?  Oh yeah - &quot;It&quot;.<br />But it's not only that.  I don't particularly mind plot recycling.  King is a master plotter and as I said earlier, in my opinion a truly great writer.  But all great fiction, particularly science fiction (and that's what this is) depends on versimilitude and at least some shred of scientific accuracy for its integrity and believability.  And here that's a problem, because the whole shebang depends on an alien symbiote being able to infect humans.  Sheesh, most terrestrial pathogens are so host-specific that they can't even be spread from one species to another, even though all share a common genetic origiin.  Ever heard of a cat catching measles from its owner?<br />So &quot;Dreamcatcher&quot; was pretty much a disappointment, at least for me.  I guess it might be OK for hard core Stephen King fans, (and I am still one and will still rush out and buy the next one as soon as it's available), but if you haven't read anything by King yet, my advice is don't start with this one.  It might prevent you from discovering some of the many truly wonderful works by this talented author (e.g.,  The Stand, The Talisman, The Shining).advice is don't start with this one.  It might prevent you from discovering some of the many truly wonderful works by this talented author (e.g.,  The Stand, The Talisman, The Shining).	2001-04-14
