US	50116795	RMSN5JM1JOSI7	0385475721	850910906	The Blind Assassin	Books	5	8	8	N	N	A complex, multi-level delight!	This is my second favourite Atwood novel. I must say I liked Alias Grace better, but in my opinion Atwood is getting much better at telling good stories. Her previous novels (e.g. Cat's Eye, The Robber Bride) had great characters, pithy social commentary, and continually witty turns of phrase, but I couldn't call the plots exactly gripping.  <br />The Blind Assassin has all these previous great characteristics, but also kept me intrigued throughout, especially with its mysteries about who is who and writing what. Perhaps I'm a little dense at picking up clues (other I know are better than I am, and found some!) but I could not predict the ending. I knew it wasn't going the direction it seemed, or the semi-obvious alternative -- and I gathered who was the woman having the affair with Alex -- but I wasn't prepared for the final revelation about the famous authoress. And I must say I was far more delighted at being so surprised than figuring it out earlier!<br />Atwood's technique of tossing in non-chronological newspaper articles certainly added to the plot's weavings and untanglings. (And her descriptions of women's clothing are priceless!) I had to go back and forth to find previous references to the same event as stated in the newspaper, or obscure character references, but this didn't detract from the reading experience at all. I like to work a little at my reading, not have it all handed to me plain and simple, and The Blind Assassin is that kind of book!<br />I also really appreciate how Atwood is delving more into Canadian history for her novels, how the socio-political scene affected, and was affected by, ordinary people -- and ordinary wealthy industrialists, of course! <br />Atwood's first sentence alone is a masterpiece: \\"Ten days after the war ended, my sister Laura drove a car off a bridge.\\" Now that deserves to be in a list of 10 best first sentences of all time!<br />I also love Atwood playing so creatively with sci-fi! I remember hearing her speak about her brother's horde of sci-fi comics, and how she devoured them as well. The sci-fi novel-within-a-novel shows her impish non-literary underbelly -- with the secret, steamy bedroom settings as a bonus!<br />If you're looking for a complex, multi-level novel, that will keep you pondering it's subtleties and implications for months to come, this is it!	2001-07-04
US	50116795	R186LFUOI9HP3T	0312243022	785940945	The Hours: A Novel	Books	5	9	12	N	N	Imbued with a love of life	This is an absolutely brilliant book! Days after finishing it I still feel full of its glow, its love of life.<br />My literature group first read Virginia Woolf's Mrs. Dalloway, and I would highly recommend that anyone considering reading The Hours first read Mrs. Dalloway. The way Cunningham uses the various characters, scenes, and \\"things\\" (e.g. pears, a necklace, flowers) in Mrs. Dalloway adds a richness, a continual reverberation to the reading experience. He uses some very differently, although often they are parallel, and they would nearly always surprise me  -- Mm, here's this strange fascination with pears! or Oh! Buying these shirts after lunch is just like buying the necklace!... He delves into the soul of Virginia Woolf herself, writing her own novel. He remakes her characters of Clarissa, Sally, and Richard in light of modern sexual mores. And he  honours Woolf by  showing how one of her readers, Laura Brown, will go to great lengths to absorb herself in reading Mrs. Dalloway. <br />That said, Cunningham certainly makes The Hours a complete novel unto itself (I think! I can't completely imagine reading it on its own.) The plot is entirely unique in its amazing construction, and the ending is totally unpredictable. <br />The intertwining of the 3 main characters, Virginia Woolf in the '20s, Laura Brown in the '50s and Clarissa in the '90s, adds some insightful historical perspectives of how women's lives have changed throughout the century. <br />I think Cunningham's greatest feat with The Hours, however, is the love of life with which he imbues it. He helps us understand the importance of savouring the immense beauty that each moment, each hour, each day, has to offer -- despite tragedies and pain and suffering.  The last few pages absolutely glow with this love of life. I've been left with the lingering warmth and happiness of this book for days and days.	2001-05-07
US	50116795	R2XEOKYS2YZJCZ	0156628708	179043206	Mrs. Dalloway	Books	5	18	19	N	N	A book to slowly savour	Hard to believe I've never read Virginia Woolf before this, and now I know I've been missing true greateness, indeed!  Mrs. Dalloway is a book to savour, every sentence, every phrase. A quick read it is not, even if quite a short novel! A few pages at a time is best, I found, to let it drift slowly into my soul. <br />It's like a long narrative poem, with exquistely perfect descriptions (what verbs!), dreamy stream-of-consciousness meanderings, and sudden cut-to-the-quick action. I found the sudden shifts into various character's points of view a little disconcerting at first -- whose head  am I in now? -- but soon came to realize the distinctive voices. <br />Unfolding over one hot summer day in London, we gradually ease closer and closer to Clarissa Dalloway's grand party. Flashing back to holiday scenes at Bourton, we learn about the tangled relationships between the young Clarissa, her n'er-do-well fiancé Peter Walsh, her wild and sensual girlfriend Sally Seton, and her eventual Member of Parliament husband Richard Dalloway. Peter Walsh, who has been away in India some 25-30 years, turns up on Clarissa's doorstep the morning of the party. Sally Seton, now Lady Rosseter, unexpectedly waltzes onto the scene that evening. How do those sensual relationships of youth translate into a sophisticated party scene decades later, with the Prime Minister and much of upper crust London in attendance? (I won't give that away!)<br />As counterpoint to London high society, we have two other important characters, Septimus Warren Smith and his Italian milliner wife Rezia. Septimus suffers post-World War I shellshock, and we follow his descent into suicidal madness. The paths of Septimus and Rezia touch those of the other characters' ever so tangentially, little more than a quick brush in the street. Yet Woolf has seamlessly woven them together. <br />Altogether this is a hauntingly beautiful novel, one that will continue to reverberate through you.	2001-03-25
US	50116795	R1BWRCWN8E8FUD	0500281998	517310557	The Vikings and America	Books	5	14	15	N	N	Highly informative and very interesting	Although published in 1986, this remains a very informative book on the Vikings and their presence in North America. Wahlgren was a professor of Scandinavian languages, so he adds a very interesting linguistic layer, and uses many Old Norse words to bolster his arguements. He has included a great deal of archaeological evidence to explain the Viking way of life in Greenland and Newfoundland., and also information from the Icelandic sagas regarding Leif Eiriksson's and others' voyages. <br />Wahlgren explains very well some of the hoaxes and misinterpretations of &quot;evidence&quot; of the Vikings in numerous areas of North America. He delves into the controversy over the Kensington Stone (a stone with a runic inscription found in Minnesota), and with his linguistic background expertly debunks it.<br />I particularly enjoy Wahlgren's very readable style, full of cute little asides, while remaining scholarly. His personality  and wit really shine through.	2001-01-20
US	50116795	RML5M3OCQFQBJ	0316058432	111842402	Mr. Popper's Penguins	Books	5	25	28	N	N	An enduring favourite	My Grade 4 students gobble up this book! I include it in several &quot; thematic literature kits&quot;: animal stories, award winners, and humourous stories. Reluctant readers are especially attracted to it, as it isn't difficult to read independently. It really grabs their attention and makes them laugh out loud. Even slow readers work hard to make their way through this novel. <br />Kids especially love all the penguins, their hilarious antics, and the bizarre trouble they get into. <br />It's also full of very interesting knowledge. We delve a little into history, getting a glimpse of life in the 1930's. We learn some geography, about exploration of the Arctic and Antarctic. And we certainly learn about penguins!<br />Written in the 1930's, this book has become a classic that hasn't lost any of its appeal for kids today. I've never seen a kid who didn't love it!	2000-12-31
US	50116795	R3U4462IC7E544	0374300100	246153383	Abel's Island	Books	5	63	64	N	N	A deceptively simple, very sophisticated  book	I read this to my Grade 4 students at the beginning of every  school year, and they are totally entranced by it. Even though Abel is a newly married adult mouse, it is a very much a story geared to the growing independence of 8 to 10 year olds. Stranded on an island for a year, the snobby, cultured Abel, who dearly loves champagne and caviar, must learn to eat wild foods and fend for himself. <br />William Steig's books are always surprisingly complex once you delve a little beneath the surface.  Abel discovers a new part of his true mouse self, a base, wild creature who survives on seeds and nuts and can gnaw his way through wood. But he also develops his artistic talents as a sculptor and thus needn't depend on Mommy's wealth any more when he finally returns to society. There is delightful interplay here between seemingly contradicting messages: Must one learn to accept one's true nature? Or must we go through trials and challenges to develop our &quot;civilized&quot; talents?<br />An aspect of Steig's writing that never fails to captivate children is that he doesn't write &quot;down&quot; to them.  He challenges them to new levels of sophistication, and children respond wholeheartedly to this. He uses lots of very big, fancy words, which never slow the story down or make it too difficult, but intrigue children more and more about language.<br />A great &quot;while reading&quot; strategy is to make a chart  to record the problem, the solutions tried, and the results. The main problem is that Abel is stranded on an island. He tries many, many solutions, and they all fail until the very  last one. Having this on a chart makes clear to kids that one must often try over and over until one succeeds, but NEVER GIVE UP TRYING! And, maybe even enjoy the meantime!<br />I would highly recommend this as a book to read and discuss with children, however, it makes a wonderful book to read independently as it is short and has great pictures.	2000-12-31
US	50116795	R1W44S3IVEWI7Q	0679873937	411190937	Babe: The Gallant Pig	Books	5	6	7	N	N	A delightful book!	Dick King-Smith has written a real gem! He is a genius at characterization. We are immediately caught up in the contrasting characters of the farmer and his wife. She talks a blue streak with never a pause for breath and turns and twists at great length in long and convoluted sentences that take up half the page, question after question and answering most of them herself. One susinct word suffices her husband. <br />The animal characters are even more rich! The loving mother sheep-dog takes poor little piglet Babe under her &quot;wing&quot;. Loving and kind though she may be to Babe, she is completely rude and disdainful towards the &quot;stupid&quot; sheep. Babe learns the power of truly respectful kindness, and totally surpasses the dog in being able to manage the sheep herd and bring out the best in them.<br />As a teacher, I believe this has a message for us. I've seen some &quot;benevolent dictators&quot; in my day, who treat students as simpletons and get as much. Kindness, respect,  and assuming intelligence go a lot further!	2000-12-31
US	50116795	R3MDBE2241QTJ4	0345420039	491910707	A Viking Voyage: In Which an Unlikely Crew of Adventurers Attempts an Epic Journey to the New World	Books	5	10	12	N	N	Realistic time travel	I followed &quot;Viking Voyage 1000&quot; for 2 summers on the Internet, and was delighted that Carter's book is definitely not a duplication. It's  more nitty gritty, not quite so clean-cut, and much more into the relationships, often tense, among the crew. <br />Having spent time in Greenland, in some of the same spots the Snorri sailed, I was delighted to relive the essence of Greenland which Carter magnificently captures -- the rawness of the elements, the tranquility of the vast openness, and how precious people are when so few. <br />On one level I'm taken back into Viking times in this book, sailing a square-sailed ship that refuses to make progress in a headwind, yet with favourable winds effortlessly skims the waves. Yet we are with thoroughly modern men on this voyage, learning rather painfully how to slow down to the pace of rowing hundreds and hundreds of miles, missing children and sweethearts, and eventually finding contentment in the merciless whims of Frey and Thor. <br />I was sorry to finish this book, to finish the voyage through these beautiful northern waters.  I especially enjoyed Carter's very honest, analytical, and humourous perspectives, and his very easy-going style of writing. I would highly recommend it to anyone interested in Viking times, or just a good true adventure story.	2000-12-22
US	50116795	R1J1YOYBVODVAN	0440219078	55490378	The Giver (21st Century Reference)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	A wonderful read-aloud	I've read The Giver a few times to Grade 4 students and they love it. While only a few kids that age could read it independently, it's one of those books that seems to lift students up to its level of sophistication  and helps them mature by seeing our culture with a little removedness.  <br />Set in the future, it gives a horrifying glimpse into  &quot;perfection&quot;. With everything safe and controlled, there's no  tolerance or allowance for error, for real feelings, for true thought. It's  a very colourless place! In fact, people have lost their ability to see  colour -- all except for a few. Jonas is one of them, although at first he  catches only brief glimpses and doesn't know what it is, just that for a  moment something looks &quot;different&quot;. This is one of the very  powerful, sublte threads of the plot, the discovery that this different  look to things is actually colour. The reader doesn't know for a very long  time that this perfect world is in fact colourless, and when it finally is  revealed, my students are always shocked! (sorry if I'm giving away some  plot, but if you're a teacher and haven't read this book, it's good to know  to add some intrigue about this, as it is very subtle).<br />One of the most  wonderful aspects about this book is that it makes us so very thankful for  the world we have, with all its imperfections. A perfectly safe world is  not so appealing afterall! It's certainly not without a very dark, secret  underbelly. What is &quot;Releasing?&quot; A discovery more shocking than  no colour! And this plot thread I won't give away!<br />A good &quot;while  reading&quot; technique is to make a Venn diagram to compare &quot;The  Future Community&quot; to &quot;Our Community&quot;, noting the  similarities and differences. It makes a good, thoughtful focuser for the  students.<br />The ambiguous ending, I've found, leaves kids quite  dissatisfied. Many of them feel cheated. Personally, I think this is  wonderful, for it may be their first novel to not have all the loose ends  neatly tied. Lowry leaves room for their own interpretation. What I like to  do is not read the final chapter until after the kids have written their  own endings. This way they can better deal with the amibiguity at the end,  because they've thought it through to their own satisfaction already.  <br />I'd highly recommend this book if you love good, thought-provoking  literature. Lowry shows true genius, and stimulates very high-level  thinking.	2000-06-21
US	50116795	R2RR0W4ZA1GMY1	006099486X	418849151	The Professor and the Madman: A Tale of Murder, Insanity, and the Making of The Oxford English Dictionary	Books	4	14	15	N	N	A strange but entertaining mix	My &quot;literary group&quot; chose this as one of our books to discuss. Most of them were very disappointed by it, but I enjoyed it tremendously. Winchester tackled this true story in a unique way, telling us first about  the separate lives of Dr. Minor (the madman) and James Murray (the  professor), and then eventually weaving them together. Murray was one of  the main editors of the Oxford English Dictionary, and Dr. Minor,  originally a medical doctor for the U.S. Army, was one of the main  volunteer contributors of definitions. As the unfortunate doctor was  confined to a mental institution, such a project helped give him a reason  for living. <br />One of the reasons I enjoyed this book is that for much of  my early life I was in a mileau that included mental patients. My  grandfather worked at a large mental hospital, and my mother grew up in a  house in a small community on the hospital grounds. My childhood was thus  full of fascinating stories about the patients. Then my mother became a  nurse and administrator at another large mental hospital, and I'd often  visit there, viewing the hospital as a vibrant although rather strange  community. The story of Dr. Minor, then, seems straight out of my  childhood.<br />Another fascinating aspect of this book for me is the history  of the OED. Up until that time, dictionaries had been compiled by one man,  e.g., Samuel Johnson, and with limited scope, e.g. &quot;hard&quot; or  unusual words. The lexicographer who first envisioned the OED, Richard  Trench, wanted it to be a record of *all* words, including the words'  histories and changing usage, by citing published examples of how each word  has been used with various nuances. Such a monumental undertaking, he knew,  could not be performed by one or a few people, nor by academics alone. He  thus proposed that it be a democratic venture, calling upon legions of  volunteer readers and contributors. Winchester stresses how this honours  the freedom of language, thathard and fast rules are not what is important  about English, but that we all can be inventors and changers of this  wonderful language.<br />I would highly recommend this book to anyone  fascinated by language, and anyone interested in the potential of people  who many be mentally ill.	2000-06-19
US	50116795	R14CZ34U95MWK4	0670869546	557749419	Awake and Dreaming	Books	5	2	2	N	N	What is reality?	I recently read this novel to my Grade 4 class, and it turned out to be one of their all-time favourites. The kids hated when I stopped reading each day. The prologue begins with a ghost, Cicely, who can't yet leave  this world. The main character, however, is Theo, an unhappy girl with a  single mother who acts like a teen-ager, makes Theo dance on the streets of  Vancouver for money, and is more interested in her new boyfriend than in  Theo. Suddenly, while on a ferry from Vancouver to Victoria to live with  her aunt, Theo finds herself in a new family, the Kaldors -- a perfect,  wonderful family with 4 kids, and they completely accept her as one of  them. A dream? But it goes on and on for months! Then slowly it begins to  fade, and she is back on the ferry, and begins another new life with her  aunt. She finally meets with the ghost, Cicely, with whom the book begins,  and begins to understand what has been happening, and what Cicely wants  from her.<br />Kit Pearson has woven a wonderful mix of reality  and fantasy.  It's a reality so real it helps kids understand poverty and disadvantaged  children. And it's a fantasy so delightfully enticing you know it must be  somewhere just under the surface of real life, if you look hard enough in  the right places. This book is a rare gem, highly engaging for both  children and adults. I'd highly recommend reading it to classes of Grade  4-6 students. Some very rich discussions will be sparked by it. It's a  fairly challenging read for individuals, although better readers love it.  All my students were entranced by it as a read-aloud.	2000-06-17
US	50116795	R3DAGHDXRRFTFY	0851153607	34618690	Women in the Viking Age	Books	5	50	50	N	N	highly informative, great illustrations	This is a very readable yet scholarly book. Jesch uses a large number of diverse sources to help us gain an understanding of women in the Viking Age, and has organized the book according to these sources. Archaeological  evidence from grave sites gives us much information about wealthy women in  particular, and evidence from house-sites tell us more about ordinary  women's lives. Evidence from runes is especially fascinating, as runic  inscriptions are often short and cryptic. Yet here we often find what women  actually wrote or accomplished, for example memorial stones they raised to  honour dead relatives, or stones raised in honour of them building a  bridge. Jesch looks at Scandinavian women travelling abroad (e.g. evidence  from place names in England) and women mentioned in foreign writings, and  how other cultures viewed them. She also looks at how they are portrayed in  art, myths and poetry.<br />Finally Jesch extracts some common themes from  these sources, and identifies some common female types, for example the  warrior woman and the inciter. (For this, however, I would recommend  &quot;Old Norse Images of Women&quot; by Jenny Jochens.)<br />There are  numerous excellent photos and illustrations in this book, which really help  bring it to life. I would highly recommend it to anyone interested in  Viking/Norse history.	2000-06-10
US	50116795	R1N8K2XQ0A2F2S	0801485207	18216282	Women in Old Norse Society	Books	5	55	58	N	N	scholarly yet highly readable	This is Jochen's companion volume to &quot;Old Norse Images of Women,&quot; which focuses on images of women in Norse literature. These literary images *may* be more Christian patriarchal fantasy than real.  &quot;Women in Old Norse Society&quot; looks at the reality of women in the  Viking Age, using the Icelandic Sagas and the recorded Laws as the main  sources of information. Jochens argues that the sagas are both historical  and literary sources.<br />Paganism lasted much longer in Scandinavia than the  rest of Europe, which meant women there enjoyed a more equal relationship  with men for a considerably longer time. Jochens explores the  Pagan-Christian conflict very fairly, looking at both the advantages and  disadvantages the shift to Christianity brought for women. For example, in  pagan times women had little say in whom they married, and Christianity  brought the advantage of female consent. Jochens looks in great detail at  important female issues such as marriage, reproduction, leisure and work.  Especially fascinating is the &quot;economics of homespun,&quot; or how  women's economic contribution of woven cloth eventually became the main  medium of exchange.<br />One of my favourite aspects of Jochen's writing is  her frequent use of Old Norse words, clearly explained, adding a  fascinating linquistic layer. She references her work meticulously, making  it a very scholarly read, yet it is highly readable for anyone interested  in women's history.	2000-06-07
US	50116795	R3QHWO0SUDN1TB	0812233581	975359413	Old Norse Images of Women (The Middle Ages Series)	Books	5	16	16	N	N	Nordic archetypes	This is a fascinating book about the female archetypes which *may* underly modern women of Nordic heritage more than we've previously realized. Or are they more patriarchal fantasy than reality?  This book (and the companion  volume &quot;Women in Old Norse Society&quot;) seems a culmination of  Jochens' career, bringing together vast amounts of knowledge and wisdom,  brilliantly and provocatively interpreted. The book looks at images of  women in Norse literature, mainly the Icelandic sagas. First she looks at  Divine Images. The more ancient ones include fertility goddesses,  valkyries, sibyls, norns and land-spirits. The more recent classic Nordic  pantheon includes the two main goddesses Frigg and Freyja, and how such  topics as sexual behaviour and marriage are treated in this divine pagan  realm. Jochens then looks at Human Images of women in Norse literature.  This is where she identifies the archetypes: the Warrior Woman, the  Prophetess/Sorceress, the Avenger, and the Whetter (or Inciter). One of the  very interesting points which Jochens stresses is that there is little  historical evidence that these images portrayed the reality of women in  real Norse society. Stories and poems of these pagan figures were  transmitted by oral tradition for hundred of years, but the written sources  were written by Christian monks for a Christian audience. This makes for  infintely fascinating layers of conjecture and interpretion. I would highly  recommend this book for anyone interested in how women are portrayed in  history, especially women of Nordic heritage.	2000-05-31
US	50116795	R1DBPVFSYLIL1I	0590684841	416913226	Elizabeth I: Red Rose of the House of Tudor, England, 1544 (The Royal Diaries)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	A book to treasure	Lasky has written a beautiful book about young Queen Elizabeth I. The language is clean and cultured, just like you would imagine a princess would write. The wonderfully researched details really give a flavour of the times. Elizabeth's relationship with her father is especially  fascinating, how much she longs for his little gestures of affection like  simple cheek pinches, and fears that he will have her latest mother-in-law,  whom she loves, beheaded. After the diary section, which goes up to the  death of Henry VIII and the crowning of Edward III, Lasky's epilogue  capsulizes the rest of Elizabeth's life very well. The family tree and  picutres are a great added feathure, especially the portraits of Henry  VIII's wives. I would highly recommend this book to anyone over the age of  about 8, including adults. It gives an easily understandable sense of  Elizabethan times.	2000-04-08
US	50116795	R3E5AR2DSKSR8R	0020425201	989051532	The Children's Homer: The Adventures of Odysseus and the Tale of Troy	Books	5	167	167	N	N	Even 9 and 10 year olds love it!	I read this book to my Grade 4 class with some initial reservations, thinking it would be beyond them. THEY LOVED IT!  A couple of brighter ones were particularly interested in Greek myths before I started, and they  helped to spark the whole class, but they all were able to understand it. I  checked with the class a number of times to see if they wanted me to  continue, and it was always a unanimous YES!  Knowing that the Odyssey and  the Illiad are considered the greatest stories of all time, and such  ancient, ancient stories, really hooked them in them. Padraic Colum's  language is sophisticated, and the sentence structure is complex, but it is  so lyrical and clean, the kids seemed caught in a spell listening to it.  One of the lovely things about reading classics to children, is that they  see how imbedded in our culture they are. For instance, they could  recognize Homer's influence in cartoons and T.V. shows! When we finished,  one of the rich discussion topics was how Homer's and the early Greeks'  view of women affects our society today. A number of parents expressed  gratitude and awe that I would read such sophisticated literature to young  children, and were highly impressed with their children's interest in it.	2000-03-26
US	50116795	RE9P0LYOIY2T1	0815624417	829445449	Myths and Symbols in Pagan Europe: Early Scandinavian and Celtic Religions	Books	4	100	102	N	N	refreshing, no-nonsense view of paganism	This is an objective analysis of pagan beliefs and practices, mostly in Viking and Celtic times. Davidson gives well -documented explanations of such things as holy places, feasting and sacrifice, rites of battle,  land-spirits and ancestors, foreknowledge and destiny. As a historical  fiction writer, writing about Viking times, this book is a valuable  resource for me. I especially appreciate the careful referencing, and  inclusion of evidence from archaeology as well as literature and folklore.  I would recommend this book to anyone interested in Viking and Celtic  religion from a more historical rather than a &quot;cultist&quot;  perspective.	2000-03-26
US	50116795	R2L9JPP2UMWT1K	0520069544	352014373	Medieval Iceland: Society, Sagas, and Power	Books	4	13	13	N	N	wonderful analysis of power structure	Byock has written a very perceptive analysis of the power structure in Viking and Medieval Iceland. As a historical fiction writer, writing about this time period, this book gave me many insights. Byock uses some  well-know and lesser-known saga characters to illustrate the power  alliances, which I found fascinating. With no royalty, Iceland deveoped a  unique democracy, which Byock explains in much detail. The maps and  diagrams are very helpful. While it is an academic read, it is certainly  not difficult. I would highly recommend it to anyone interested in the  history of Iceland.	2000-03-26
US	50116795	R30754YI1TQ29Q	0875421377	527719057	Norse Magic (World Magic Series)	Books	1	5	6	N	N	fanciful and silly	Conway seems to have made this stuff up out of her own head. A little bit of Norse this and that on top of modern wicca and her own imagination is what it appears to me. It's kinda fun, but I doubt if any Norse pagans ever  did anything remotely close to this. It's hard to believe stuff like this  gets published. I'm sorry I spent my money on it.	2000-03-26
US	50116795	R20ARBB73GD7IM	067988792X	163819579	Skinnybones	Books	5	27	28	N	N	Hilarious and poignant	The first time I read this book I literally fell out of bed from laughing so hard. As a teacher, I read this book to my class nearly every year, and they love it!  Alex is an endearing underdog who tries so hard to be what he is not: a size Large, knowledgeable baseball player. When he hears that  a player is going to bunt he hasn't a clue what bunting means. He guesses  it might mean to throw up, and this leads into the funniest scene I've ever  read in children's literature. Every time I have to read it aloud I hardly  can get through; I'm laughing so hard all my mascara runs. My class always  gets an incredibly healthy, side-splitting, laugh from Alex's antics. He's  also a very real character, with an inferiority complex, and a quirky way  of viewing the world. He does find his strength in the end: comedy writing.  This leads him into the sequel, Almost Starring Skinnybones, where his  inferiorty complex turns into boasting bravado. One of the great  qualitities of these books is Alex's depth of character, a real study in  what can make &quot;class clowns&quot;. I think the kids gain some  understanding into the possiblity of sadness beneath the hilarity and the  attention-seeking.	2000-02-24
US	50116795	RF8HDLGHI5TQY	0864424531	318727899	Lonely Planet Iceland, Greenland & the Faroe Islands (3rd ed)	Books	5	16	16	N	N	A true survival guide	We used this book to plan our trip to both Iceland and Greenland, and found it invaluable. We used it to phone and e-mail for reservations, which were not always possible to make, as LP also tells us, because of no  English spoken at some of the tiny places. We trusted LP that little  hostels existed in these places, however, and always found room. The maps  were great, including hiking trails. The historical details were  well-researched. The directions were amazing. It even got us to one  historical site in Iceland that had no signs and even the locals had a hard  time telling us how to find. Besides being practically helpful, it has lots  of anecdotes and local flavour that make it interesting reading. Perhaps  what should be emphasized more is how expensive Iceland is. Two small loads  of laundry cost us about $35 Canadian! We could have bought all new  underwear for that!	2000-02-04
US	50116795	RX8NUO1SAM1CM	0002554232	992728900	The Red Shoes: Margaret Atwood Starting Out	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Delightful analysis of the life and times of a young Atwood	This intriguing book tells about the early life of Margaret Atwood in great detail, and then skims through the last couple of decades. Rosemary Sullivan has done a remarkable job of recreating the '40's, '50's, '60's  and '70's, and how they influenced (and eventually were influenced by!)  Canada's #1 writer. Having interviewed Atwood, many of her friends and  associates, ex-husband and present husband, and also using contemporary  correspondence, Sullivan seems to have an authentic understanding of how  Atwood developed into such an amazing, prolific writer. Always respectful,  Sullivan keeps her focus on what in Atwood's life is relevant to her as a  writer. This is a very intelligently written biography, with an incredible  amount of research and very astute analyses, and should be a satisfying  read for any fan of Margaret Atwood's, without feeling like you have  invaded her privacy.	1999-04-24
US	50116795	R3O6A9XC4JH706	0745173829	69546549	Captain Corelli's Mandolin	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Well, I LIKED the ending!!	This will go down as one of my all-time favourite books. Such a masterful mix of comedy and tragedy is rare, indeed. In parts I couldn't stop laughing, much to my sleeping husband's annoyance as I read it late into  the night. Then unstoppable tears would flow. De Berniers's obvious love of  his characters, his painstaking research, his use of challenging vocabulary  that often sent me gleefully into the dictionary, his masterful unfolding  of plot -- all combined to keep me in continual awe of his writing. And  now, about THAT ending: Yes, there was a definite shift from the intricate  details of most of the book, which covered a relatively short period of  time. But to cover decades in that same detailed style would be utterly  impossible! (Unless it becomes a multi-volume epic, which I believe in this  case would be unsustainable.) I was impressed, actually, that De Berniers  was able to give enough details to make the unfolding of those decades not  too rushed. It was like travelling on a speeding train through the  landscape, but stopping long enough in some places to get one's bearings,  get a decent feel for the time and place, and even go into some shops and  have a nice meal and a chat with the locals. I LIKED the way De Berniers  constructed the &quot;bridge&quot;, then, from the war to the present, to  what we can see and experience on the island of Cephalonia today. As far as  the culmination of the love-story is concerned, without giving away the  ending, I found it satisfying and realistic. The characters remained  essentially consistent, although circumstances and their lives had  drastically changed. The criteria for a good ending, as far as I'm  concerned, is that I feel satisfied, that it feels &quot;right&quot;, and  that I couldn't completely predict it, although some hints were pointing me  in that general direction. It met those criteria for me.	1999-04-07
US	50116795	RXEZ3T56REA2O	0140252827	919459609	The Vikings: Revised Edition	Books	5	205	207	N	N	Readable yet scholarly; great as reference or leisurely read	I loved the first edition of this book, and this revised edition is even better, incorporating much new archaeological evidence. As a historical fiction writer, currectly writing a novel about the Vikings, books like  this are invaluable to me. This is my #1 reference book. Not only does it  contain a tremendous amount of information, Roesdahl has organized it  exceptionally well, such that it is always easy to find exactly what I'm  looking for. As a read-through book, I also found it captivating and not in  the least bit dry. Replete with maps, diagrams and photos, it is an  invaluable learning tool for anyone interested in this time in history. One  of the aspects I particularly appreciate is that Roesdahl has a  Scandinavian perspective, viewing the Vikings as a legitimate Norse  civilization, with a vibrant, artistic, agricultural and exploratory  culture, more than as pagan invaders of the rest of civilized Europe. Yes,  there were some ruthless invaders amongst them, but many writers are too  focused on that aspect. The book starts with a look at the sources of  information we have about the Vikings, the written sources, place names and  archaeological evidence. Knowing the sources on which our knowledge is  based is extremely important, so we won't be so readily hoodwinked into  believing faulty interpretations. Roesdahl then looks in excellent detail  at Scandinavian geography, people, language, history, religion, art, etc. A  wonderful feel for the times and culture is gained. The next focus is Norse  expansion, their conquests and settlements in Britain, Russia and the  Baltics, and west to Iceland, Greenland and North America. Finally, she  concludes with the lasting significance of these Norse peoples and the  so-called Viking Age. I would highly recommend this book to anyone  seriously interested in Viking history.	1999-04-07
US	50116795	R1VWIGIE2ZMYW6	0198205260	34023919	The Oxford Illustrated History of the Vikings (Oxford Illustrated Histories)	Books	4	68	74	N	N	A comprehensive, intelligent history of the Vikings	This is one of the best books on the Vikings I've ever read (and I've read dozens!). With numerous contributors from many universtities, each chapter is written with detailed authority and offers a fresh perspective. The  chonology at the back of the book is a bonus feature. My only criticism is  that, depspite chapters on exploration to the west (what I consider to be  the most important legacy of the Vikings), Sawyer still tends to let the  British perspective of victimization by the Vikings dominate the book.	1999-04-06
US	50116795	R2AF015BPKSLCT	0385483368	495318696	The Last Apocalypse: Europe at the Year 1000 A.D.	Books	3	34	41	N	N	Hard to discern historical fact from Reston's imagination	Reston writes a highly entertaining, &quot;popular&quot; history, although I have some definite quibbles with his interpretations. It seems Reston wants to cash in on a &quot;millenium&quot; book, and has construed history  to conform to this theme. At the turn of the millenium in which we are now  living, most people on the planet are abundantly aware of this as an event.  Not so in much of Europe around the year 1000. In particular, much of  Northern Europe, still being pagan, did not follow the Julian Calendar.  Even those who were aware of the 1000th anniversary since the birth of  Christ, may have seen little significance in that number, as a full circle  was seen as being divided into 1/12ths, and thus multiples of 12 were more  &quot;complete&quot; and significant numbers than multiples of 10. The  questions that are begged, therefore, are: How significant is a purely  symbolic event if folk are not aware of it as anything special? Might an  apocalyptic interpretation be cast over just about any time in history?  Regardless, Reston's book is an entertaining read, and will give a vivid,  imaginative sense of that period in Europe, as long as you don't count on  it for historical accuracy.	1999-04-06
US	50116795	R7U6AB6K5ETQX	0747527873	107805179	Alias Grace	Books	5	128	134	N	N	The best STORY Atwood has written	Although I've been a fan of Margaret Atwood's for many years (as any good Canadian woman should be!), I usually enjoyed her actual writing--her poetic turn of a phrase, her quirky descriptions--more than the plots of  her novels. Alias Grace shows her as a masterful storyteller. The first  time I read it I could hardly put it down, so anxious was I to learn the  ultimate fate of Grace Marks, but forced myself to read it more slowly to  savour living in the Victorian times Atwood re-created in palpable detail.  As soon as I finished, all I wanted to do was go back to the beginning and  start over. For a month I resisted, and then re-read it slowly, studying  her art of writing. A couple of years later now, I have re-read it for a  third time, and am still in awe of the multiple layers of this story, the  painstaking research into the life of Grace Marks, the simple language used  by the uneducated Grace that yet reveals her very clever mind, the  delightful overlay of quilting patterns, the details of domestic work in  Victorian Canada, the emergent state of psychiatry, and the skillful  unfolding of an unpredictable plot. The variety of forms of writing is also  intriguing, the monologues of Grace and the correspondence between Dr.  Jordan and his friends and family. Alias Grace is a true masterpiece, the  most brilliant Canadian novel ever, I would say.	1999-04-04
