US	50126909	R2KE07KLPXKIUO	0787903493	732587638	Action Learning: How the World's Top Companies are Re-Creating Their Leaders and Themselves	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Action Reading	For over the past hundred years there has been the debate over whether leadership is a competency that can be trained and fostered or whether it is an innate skill that individuals are born with. Dotlich and Noel add fuel to that fire as they assert that there is a mechanism called Action Learning that can create within organizations the necessary shifts in attitudes and behaviors at the leadership level for substantial organizational renewal. Action Learning, simply stated, is fostered experiential learning. In that there is nothing new here. What is new, however, is the way in which Dotlich and Noel have created a \\"whole body\\" syllabus for organizations that includes key learning activities that are tied to business objectives.  <br />Where many leadership programs are deficient is in tying key attitudes, behaviors, and competencies into key business situations. Making the learning relevant and urgent is the key.  The tie between learning and business application must be more than cognitive. It has to be an experience that includes intellect, emotion, risk, feedback, and reflection. \\"When we are fully engaged in a process, we are much more likely to be profoundly influenced by it.\\" The way in which Action Learning creates this engagement is through tackling a significant business issue with people from cross-functions within an organization. The context of the book is the demonstration of the Action Learning principles as they were applied by Dotlich and Noel on several organizations going through major transformation. Some of the richest scenarios come from Citibank's challenge to become unified in how it approached business, General Electrics mandate to become global thinkers, and Johnson &amp; Johnson's need to upgrade and develop executive talent here and abroad. Each of these industries utilized the Action Learning framework to tackle the necessary changes brought on by the complexity of today's business.<br />The term framework is intentionally as there is no template for this process. Action Learning is pliable, versatile, and malleable in order for it to flex to the urgent needs of the business. What makes up this framework is consistent. Action Learning is comprised of a process that selects key issues, creates cross-functional teams, designs presentations, and involves senior management. The time frame for this process can span nine weeks to nine months.  In the process the individuals are given key assignments, attend specific seminars and learning events, and have a dedicated coach and sponsor. The sponsor is the key ingredient that ensures Action Learning success. The sponsor is the senior executive who endorses Action Learning and creates an atmosphere affirming the process and creates a top-down awareness of what's at stake for the business not address the key issues. The dedicated external coach offers the second key ingredient-reflection and feedback. In the midst of chaos-business today, there is often little time for individuals to reflect upon actions taken and impact of those actions. The coach observes individual and team dynamics and offers key questions for awareness and reflection. Some of the most powerful questions include:<BR>  Is your team on the right track?<BR>Will your project make a significant difference in cutting costs or raising revenues?<BR>  Have you made any breakthroughs?<br />Through Action Learning, Dotlich and Noel claim that leaders in organizations can re-create that frames of reference in order to more effectively adjust to emerging business issues and are more effective leaders. They have identified ten contrasting mindsets that illustrate the gap between traditional leadership and re-created leadership. These include:<BR>ü Providing direction versus providing directions.<BR>ü Owners versus mangers.<BR>ü What might be versus what is.<BR>ü Involvement versus isolation.<BR>ü Generalist versus functionalist.<BR>ü Reflection versus doing.<BR>ü Emotion versus intellect.<BR>üFaith versus skepticism.<BR>ü Receptive versus rejecting.<BR>ü Free speech versus censorship.<br /> Re-created leadership that is realized through the Action Learning process enables leaders to be more agile and responsive to employees, customers, ideas, and opportunities. I recommend this book for anyone who is responsible for business strategy, anyone who is leads a cross functional team, and anyone who participates in curriculum design. The Action Learning framework and the accompanying scenarios offer ideas, important key questions, and a context for personal and organizational success.	2001-11-15
US	50126909	R3U7YGWNZYUFML	0071362681	978670830	E-Learning: Strategies for Delivering Knowledge in the Digital Age	Books	4	20	24	N	N	Knowledge Management = Learning Organization 2K	Marc Rosenberg is the Peter Senge of Knowledge Management. He builds on the key aspects that Senge acknowledges as key competitive aspects of organizations that need to learn, adapt, and stay solvent. He starts from identifying the difference between instruction vs information and the fact that so many times organizations get caught up in the &quot;who&quot; and the &quot;how&quot; instead of the &quot;what&quot; and the &quot;why.&quot; For any trainer this book was interesting from the standpoint of how he defines different levels of knowledge. There are some key graphics and useful charts that help one grasp the complexity of e-learning. I started reading and thought it would be more about on-line learning, but he really took it much broader quickly. On-line learning is only a drop in the bucket of uses for the intranet. As much as we have out there he points out that there is much more to be saturated. Technology is a useful modality that can complement and enhance existing training. There was no threat to the training industry in his book. Training is still essential--but it needs to accomidate the information age and be much more timely, flexible, relevant. The one criticism I have is the fact that he doesn't address the fact that some people still need to have the classroom experience. There is the framework that you can increase aquisition of information, but if some of the psychological aspects  of employee needs are not met--you get a drop in productivity, employee satisfaction and employee retention. There is still a lot to debate but he makes a compeling case regarding e-learning and knowledge management.	2001-11-15
US	50126909	R3SVTLOZ8N5V0I	0684852861	48882658	First, Break All the Rules: What the World's Greatest Managers Do Differently	Books	4	15	17	N	Y	First, Read the Book	There is a race for talent in today's job market. Organizations are realizing more and more that their competitive advantage lies within those individuals interfacing with customers and other employees. A businesses' greatest asset is indeed the individuals of the organization. We, in training and development, have known this for a long time. Now, there is bottom line business language that helps others acknowledge and quantify the human asset. <br />In my consulting practice I see more and more emphasis and investment in the developing and cultivation or leadership. In order for organizations to capitalize on their human assets, they must invest in the leadership teams who are managing talent.  Recently facilitating a project for Innovative Training Strategies I was introduced to this book First, Break All the Rules.   This book is rich with analogies, case studies, and practical information for any one who has more than one employee. Buckingham and Coffman present a business case for leadership development that is based on a Gallup survey of over a million employees and 80,000 managers from a vast range of companies and industries. I feel so strongly about this book for you as a business leader and in your organizations' success that I recommend it be a required reading for you and members of your leadership team. That said, my intent here is to share just a couple of the many learnings the book has to offer in order to peak your curiosity and hopefully intrigue you into making the time investment to experience this resource first hand.<br />Today's companies are having a team of people look at benefit packaging and creating a company profile that is attractive to prospective employees-especially talented employees. One of the things that Buckingham and Coffman warn about is that many companies do things that are effective for all employees. From their research they were able to extract information that was especially true for talented employees. They determined \\"talented\\" employees as those who seemed to be the most productive in terms of productivity measures and customer feedback. (There is an intense appendix for those who require supporting facts and data.) What they found was this : talented employees need great managers. \\"The talented employee may join a company because of its charismatic leaders, its generous benefits, and its world-class training programs, but how long that employee stays and how productive he is while he is there is determined by his relationship with his immediate supervisor.\\"<BR>So, while your company is spending a lot of resources on employee retention and recruitment, for a return on investment your company would be wise to concurrently develop the leadership team to be talent savvy. <br />Employee Satisfaction is now on everyone's radar.  Organizations want satisfied employees because satisfied employees = satisfied customers. Now that that is understood, how does an organization gage employee satisfaction? There is much offered by Buckingham and Coffman to support this critical question. Through their research they have been able to extract the 12 most effective questions to gear how satisfied your talent pool is:<BR>1. Do I know what is expected of me at work?<BR>2. Do I have the materials and equipment I need to do my work right?<BR>3. At work, do I have the opportunity to do what I do best every day?<BR>4. In the last seven days, have I received recognition or praise for good work?<BR>5. Does my supervisor, or someone at work, seem to care about me as a person?<BR>6. Is there someone at work who encourages my development?<BR>7. At work, do my opinions seem to count?<BR>8. Does the mission/purpose of my company make me feel like my work is important?<BR>9. Are my co-workers committed to doing quality work?<BR>10. Do I have a best friend at work?<BR>11. In the last six months, have I talked with someone about my progress?<BR>12. At work, have I had opportunities to learn and grow.<br />At first glance, I was surprised the first time I saw this list. Yet, when I thought about what is meaningful to myself as an employee, I nodded my head in agreement. Buckingham and Coffman explain what they learned from the process of gathering data from employees and how they determined these questions as being most effective for evaluating talent satisfaction.<br />So, First get the book and take advantage of the research and learning provided by Buckingham and Coffman in First Break All the Rules. If time is an issue, the book is also available on audio cassette. Enjoy making positive impact on your employees and co-workers.	2001-10-23
US	50126909	R19I00M6QXSAIW	0786882417	990569510	The Path: Creating Your Mission Statement for Work and for Life	Books	4	44	46	N	N	Your Mission Is Mission Critical	Go into any Fortune 500 company headquarters and not far from the door you will probably find a plaque with a mission statement and a vision statement. Since the early 1990's companies have spent hundreds of thousands of dollars creating mission and vision statements that serve as a anchor for all employee goals and objectives.  Laurie Beth Jones reminds us why this is a critical investment for companies and urges individuals to invest the time, energy and discipline necessary to articulate their own mission and vision statements. She claims this is essential in order for one to gain a higher level of clarity for how daily activities align to fulfill an individual's goals and purpose.  In addition, Jones asserts, \\"What we think about ourselves is clearly and unequivocally reflected in everything we say or do-in our work, our surroundings, our service to others. Therefore it is important to take the time to get a more clear picture of who we really think we are.\\" <br />This book is a \\"must read\\" for independent consultants, managers, and people in job transition.  For the independent consultant the book offers exercises designed to help identify niche and ways to articulate value. With so many independent consultants-even within our Rochester community, the better the consultant has done the work of creating a mission it will help him/her determine the clients and companies that most align with the value they have to offer. For the manager, the book is full of ideas that may be useful in team building and in capturing the most for employees. As a manager, one gets rewarded for achieving results through other people. By taking the time with employee and teams and working through some of the exercises that allow individuals to determine the values that are important to them and the actions that are most rewarding they will be able to align projects with people in a way that enhances productivity. And for the individual in job transition the book offers key questions tohelp a person envision the type of work that best allows for the individual to live his/her mission in a work setting. To find a motivational and value based fit, the person seeking employment will have greater articulation of \\"bottom line\\"  essentials that are fulfilling and motivating. Jones shares that \\"passion is power\\" and the more clearly defined and articulated that passion is-the more power that can be released. <br />So what is the difference between a mission and vision statement?  A mission statement is a sentence that articulates key actions, an audience, and a purpose. A mission statement must be broad enough to encompass many activities with a final outcome. Here are Jones ingredients to an effective mission statement: · A mission statement should be no more that one single sentence long. · It should be easily understood by a twelve year old. · It should be able to be recited by memory at gun-point.<br />A vision statement is less of a strategy than an exercise in visualization. A vision statement requires an individual or a company to write down exactly what the \\"picture\\" will look like once the mission has been carried out. A vision statement requires imagination and what Jones calls positive \\"prophecy.\\" Jones encourages that ,\\"One of the most important things we can do for others-and for ourselves -is to create and maintain an atmosphere charged with positive prophecies.\\" That is what vision statements do-they project into the future and create a more desirable picture that is motivating, inspiring, and desired. For companies that are going through major changes and struggling with bringing the workforce along with the necessary changes, I recommend this book as a strategy to help leaders and managers to support staff in creating scenarios to create vision as leverage for change.<br />A recommendation for leading you or your organization with the use of mission and vision statements is to keep both the mission and vision present together. With the latest technology, you can now watch two football games simultaneously. A television channel can be superimposed on another so you can follow two games at the same time, a \\"picture within a picture\\". That is exactly what is required to make the most use of mission and vision statements. They must be present while you are in the midst of your work and daily activities.  The two pictures or channels Jones encourages you to watch are channel WCI (What Currently Is) and channel WCB (What Could Be). Keeping these two channels or pictures present allows for you, your team, and your company to make decision in alignment with the articulated mission and vision.<br />I firmly believe that whether we are individual contributors or part of a corporate entity, we can offer the most value by being clear in our skills, gifts and purpose. This book will help you gain and articulate some of that clarity. In addition to this book, I strongly recommend Soloing-Realizing Your Life's Ambition by Harriet Rubin.	2001-04-23
US	50126909	R1MPHDVV0S3FUB	0385502532	903040762	Drowning Ruth: A Novel (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Drowning Ruth . . .Surfacing Truth	Christina Schwarz offers a dynamic mystery story about choices and consequences. At times the writing was reminiscent of Margaret Atwood's &quot;Cat's Eyes&quot; in that there are a few people's lives that are woven together so delicately yet so profoundly. I can't write much about the plot without sharing elements of surprise. I can share with you one of my favorite quotes from a very minor character in the story:&quot; (Arthur) had a sense that there might also exist some entirely different destination, one that he couldn't yet see but which lay just beyond the obscuring undergrowth of long habit and expectations, troubled him and kept him from moving forward. He had no idea how to hack through that foliage, no whether whatever he uncovered would please him, but neither did he want to follow blindly the manicured course on which his feet were already set.&quot; This speaks with a beautiful metaphor of how hard it is to truly live a life free of habit and expectation--it is no easy journey!	2001-01-14
US	50126909	R3JCH8C0UOEO31	013104639X	776769432	Peer Training: Improved Performance One by One	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A Must Have For Customer Service Trainers	Carolyn Nilson's Peer Training is a wonderful collection of both motivational philosophy and practical knowledge. She shares information in such a tangible way that you can take the templates that she offers and tailor them to your specific needs based on your organizational goals and objectives. While there are no formulas as each industry and business has a life of its own based on the relationships, operational issues, and cultural values--this book will enable you to get a good start with some of your programs and initiatives.	2001-01-04
US	50126909	R20A5F5XN6J8MR	0375406182	963629300	Plainsong	Books	4	1	2	N	N	There is nothing Plain to this Song	This is the last book I read for the year 2000 and I was delighted that it was a memorable one. Plainsong is the story of a community and the sublte, yet intricate ways in which people are connected to one another. It was an optimistic book--without being sentimental. Showing that human nature has the ability to forgive, give, and learn. Each of the characters has voice and teaches something about humilty and grace. Perhaps you'll discover a song of your own in one of them.	2001-01-02
US	50126909	R3W3K7FV8XEES9	0140296409	929204920	Disgrace: A Novel	Books	2	5	9	N	N	What's the Buzz?	I heard a lot about this book and felt that I was missing something by not reading it. I don't get it. I found the protagonist to be difficult to identify with. I found other characters not well developed--so I could not &quot;feel&quot; for them. The topic of rape was touched on--but there was no resolution for me the reader. I understand that part of the story was a documentary on life in South Africa--so in that I can appreciate some of the plot and conflict within the story. Perhaps you will enjoy the story more if you have visited the area. The one saving grace for the book was the fact that it had a theme regarding the dangerous consequences of bad judgement. We have all been in situations that didn't seem to &quot;be a big deal&quot; but later ended up being ordeals. This is a good example of a bad decision costing much.	2001-01-02
US	50126909	R36ZJOX8NP6YWT	0446521108	276529601	Benjamin's Gift	Books	3	1	4	N	N	Wasted Gift/Wasted Read	If you like &quot;plot&quot; you'll like Benjamin's Gift. There were so many aspects to the plot of this story--it was at sometimes a historical documentary, at others a science fiction adventure, and others a book about sexual fantasy. Michael Golding has incorporated themes reminiscent of Charles Dicken's Oliver and Oscar Wilde's The Portrait of Dorian Gray. While there was a great deal of action--what I missed was character development. The characters were flat and were not believable. There was so much opportunity in my mind to create some quality introspection in the characters so that the message in Benjamin's gift (which is hard to find) could be a theme for all. My projected theme is the fact that each indivdual has specific &quot;natural gifts&quot; and there is an inherent responsibility to share those gifts for the greater good.	2000-12-11
US	50126909	R1GE6IGD1T2RF7	0440226104	337409677	Black and Blue: A Novel (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Challenging Reality	I absolutely loved One True Thing by Anna Quindlen--so I was excited to read another book by her. The story told about domestic violence is an important one to tell. There is some much complexity to the drama and pyschology of those in this type of relationship. I believe Ms. Quindlen did justice to this complexity. I didn't like the fact that resolution came through another male--a somewhat of heroic character. Is it possible for female protagonists to create successful outcomes without the need for a male &quot;savior?&quot; I'd like an author to tell a story with a happy ending--with the female protagonist being the &quot;hero.&quot;	2000-12-11
US	50126909	R1E7NVNV8X9LQV	0060930535	951868170	The Poisonwood Bible (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Many Layers, Many Messages, Many Provoked Thoughts	Barbara Kingsolver has written a dynamic text that asks much of the reader as she guides you on a journey that is both physical and metaphysical. The reading has many layers from mere plot to intense comments on religion, politics, power, masculine vs. feminine energy, geography, history. This reading is in part a slice of liberal education at large. A caution to the reader is the fact that the narration is shared through five visions, five life philosophies, and five life experiences. Kingsolver does a fabulous job reminding us that &quot;truth&quot; and &quot;experience&quot; are subjective as each of the narrator's views the same situation and translates that experience in very different ways.  What I liked best about the book was that I questioned my own belief systems as I was either identifying with or disagreeing with the characters.<br />Cheers to your interpretation!	2000-11-25
US	50126909	R3D1AQ4JLP1KWL	1576750310	338989737	Synchronicity: The Inner Path of Leadership	Books	4	4	7	N	N	To Serve  is To Lead	This is a thoughtful book of Joseph Jaworski's heroic journey to find his professional destiny. Yes, he even offers a Joseph Campbell Model of the mythical journey. I enjoyed many of the resources and quotes offered. In addition Peter Senge offers a beautifully written comprehensive introduction that hits on the main points of the entire book.<br />Perhaps the point that most resonated for me was the concept service and the desire to serve as being a critical aspect of leadership. So much about leadership is about strength, clarity, sometimes power. It is important that this strength, clarity and power be tempred by a desire to serve others and concepts larger than oneself.<br />Enjoy.	2000-11-14
US	50126909	R36DZ9PEIBIAEQ	0964220504	648982360	Developing Your Company Culture: The Joy of Leadership	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Culture, Evolution, and Leadership	At some point in your career either in an organization or as an external consultant you are likely to be handed a \\"golden baton\\" and asked to facilitate or create change within the corporate culture. On one hand you may be delighted that the organization has seen the value in this sort of initiative and recognizes the need. On another hand you may be aware of the task at hand and wonder, \\"Does this organization really understand what it is asking for. Is it truly ready to make the necessary changes to create this `said' desired outcome.\\"  If in fact you accept at this endeavor, ( and I choose this word lightly-as many are not asked but assigned to the undertaking) I recommend you read two useful resources. The first you are probably already familiar with, John Kotter's Leading Change; the second I will be sharing with you here, Barry Phegan's Developing Your Company Culture-The Joy of Leadership.<br />John Kotter's Leading Change is very useful as a pragmatic guide to the strategic steps necessary in creating change. Strategy, alone, cannot ensure cultural change. What Phegan does is put strategy in the context of what he calls the \\"Five Levels of Evolution, Culture, and Leadership.\\" According to Phegan, there are five areas in organizational culture that require balance: physics, life, competition, language, and experience. In most companies the organizational cultures are strong in some areas, weak in others. In order to align a \\"cultural change\\" strategy in a way to create meaningful change, there must be leadership to balance out these areas. <br />5.  Experience-feelings, trust, fear, caring, values, involvement, satisfaction There is always experience, but in most organizations the quality of it is poor. You cannot get to this directly, only through actions at level 4.<br />4.   Language-communications, listening, meaning, understanding, relationships, teamwork, consensus, win-win This is the thinnest area in most organizational cultures. Communications, understanding, relationships, and teamwork are usually weak. +<br />3.  Competition-economics, authority, control, politics, win-lose, rules, information, productivity, profits, decisions Although not always discussed, openly, this level is overemphasized in most organizational cultures.<br />2.  Life-systems and processes, biology, operational procedures and methods, training, software, efficiency Operating systems are often poorly developed. There is usually plenty of room for process improvements. *<br />1. Physics-chemistry, equipment, hardware, engineering, technology In most organizations, this level is fine. It is easier to talk about equipment than the more productive areas of processes (2), or communications (4).    The table below (page 53 of text) points to the fact that the largest opportunity to develop changes in the work culture lies in language-which has been broken down into communications, listening, meaning, understanding-basically relationship building. The next largest opportunity lies in tackling problems in processes and procedures.<br /> While I am sure that this makes intuitive sense to you, the task becomes how to document and put together a means to actively measure the actions you are taking and how they affect the bottom line or the goals and objectives by which you are to be measured while leading this imitative. Phegan does not offer any solution to that dilemma. What he does, however, is offer a template to improve the areas that need the attention. The most effective strategy that Barry Phegan advocates is the use of an informal interview. He provides a template for an interview format that will allow organizational leaders to get clearer understanding of the framework of the organizations employees. It is from these \\"non-agenda-conversations\\"-not \\"fireside chats\\" relationships are built, the \\"true\\" picture of the existing culture can be drawn, and human beings can feel individual and valuable. This is where he claims you get the biggestreturn on your cultural change investment.<br />The book is full of information regarding group dynamics, the art of negotiating, and skillful tips to managers. What is somewhat discouraging is that after several pages of information, guidance, and helpful hints, he ends his book with a section called Reflections where he points out that \\"work cultures are very stable. Sometimes they would rather die than change.\\" He outlines why managers resist employee involvement in cultural change initiatives.  Perhaps the knowledge of why there is resistance is helpful, but he does not offer any solutions to this aspect of human management  nature. He even encourages external consultants to work in teams, \\"culture consultants should always work as a team. Work cultures are simply too seductive.\\"<br />As you go forward with the task at hand to lead or create cultural change, don't get discouraged. Remember, each positive conversation, change, meeting does have a ripple effect. Phegan encourages you as a cultural leader to look for \\"pockets of readiness\\" and to encourage them. Work and gain momentum with those who \\"get it\\" and allow the change to evolve over time. It cannot be forced.	2000-11-08
US	50126909	RBOL9MK70KM9J	0964220504	648982360	Developing Your Company Culture: The Joy of Leadership	Books	4	10	10	N	N	Culture, Evolution, and Leadership	At some point in your career either in an organization or as an external consultant you are likely to be handed a \\"golden baton\\" and asked to facilitate or create change within the corporate culture. On one hand you may be delighted that the organization has seen the value in this sort of initiative and recognizes the need. On another hand you may be aware of the task at hand and wonder, \\"Does this organization really understand what it is asking for. Is it truly ready to make the necessary changes to create this `said' desired outcome.\\"  If in fact you accept at this endeavor, ( and I choose this word lightly-as many are not asked but assigned to the undertaking) I recommend you read two useful resources. The first you are probably already familiar with, John Kotter's Leading Change; the second I will be sharing with you here, Barry Phegan's Developing Your Company Culture-The Joy of Leadership.<br />John Kotter's Leading Change is very useful as a pragmatic guide to the strategic steps necessary in creating change. Strategy, alone, cannot ensure cultural change. What Phegan does is put strategy in the context of what he calls the \\"Five Levels of Evolution, Culture, and Leadership.\\" According to Phegan, there are five areas in organizational culture that require balance: physics, life, competition, language, and experience. In most companies the organizational cultures are strong in some areas, weak in others. In order to align a \\"cultural change\\" strategy in a way to create meaningful change, there must be leadership to balance out these areas. <br />5.  Experience-feelings, trust, fear, caring, values, involvement, satisfaction There is always experience, but in most organizations the quality of it is poor. You cannot get to this directly, only through actions at level 4.<br />4.   Language-communications, listening, meaning, understanding, relationships, teamwork, consensus, win-win This is the thinnest area in most organizational cultures. Communications, understanding, relationships, and teamwork are usually weak. +<br />3.  Competition-economics, authority, control, politics, win-lose, rules, information, productivity, profits, decisions Although not always discussed, openly, this level is overemphasized in most organizational cultures.<br />2.  Life-systems and processes, biology, operational procedures and methods, training, software, efficiency Operating systems are often poorly developed. There is usually plenty of room for process improvements. *<br />1. Physics-chemistry, equipment, hardware, engineering, technology In most organizations, this level is fine. It is easier to talk about equipment than the more productive areas of processes (2), or communications (4).    The table below (page 53 of text) points to the fact that the largest opportunity to develop changes in the work culture lies in language-which has been broken down into communications, listening, meaning, understanding-basically relationship building. The next largest opportunity lies in tackling problems in processes and procedures.<br /> While I am sure that this makes intuitive sense to you, the task becomes how to document and put together a means to actively measure the actions you are taking and how they affect the bottom line or the goals and objectives by which you are to be measured while leading this imitative. Phegan does not offer any solution to that dilemma. What he does, however, is offer a template to improve the areas that need the attention. The most effective strategy that Barry Phegan advocates is the use of an informal interview. He provides a template for an interview format that will allow organizational leaders to get clearer understanding of the framework of the organizations employees. It is from these \\"non-agenda-conversations\\"-not \\"fireside chats\\" relationships are built, the \\"true\\" picture of the existing culture can be drawn, and human beings can feel individual and valuable. This is where he claims you get the biggestreturn on your cultural change investment.<br />The book is full of information regarding group dynamics, the art of negotiating, and skillful tips to managers. What is somewhat discouraging is that after several pages of information, guidance, and helpful hints, he ends his book with a section called Reflections where he points out that \\"work cultures are very stable. Sometimes they would rather die than change.\\" He outlines why managers resist employee involvement in cultural change initiatives.  Perhaps the knowledge of why there is resistance is helpful, but he does not offer any solutions to this aspect of human management  nature. He even encourages external consultants to work in teams, \\"culture consultants should always work as a team. Work cultures are simply too seductive.\\"<br />As you go forward with the task at hand to lead or create cultural change, don't get discouraged. Remember, each positive conversation, change, meeting does have a ripple effect. Phegan encourages you as a cultural leader to look for \\"pockets of readiness\\" and to encourage them. Work and gain momentum with those who \\"get it\\" and allow the change to evolve over time. It cannot be forced.	2000-11-08
US	50126909	R1KNC2T5WUYTHK	0875844480	815766971	The Loyalty Effect: The Hidden Force Behind Growth, Profits, and Lasting Value	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Loyalty-A Business Imperative!!!!!	Many perceive the word loyalty to be a concept collecting dust. After all, employee turnover across industries today is ten to thirty percent. Businesses are losing customers at a rate of fifteen to twenty percent a year. And we all know that Wall Street is very unpredictable reporting investor turnover for many companies to be as high as one hundred percent annually. Despite these statistics, Frederick Reichheld is optimistic that loyalty is possible and even should be the goal for employees, customers, and investors. He and his colleagues have been studying successful companies for several decades and have found that there are specific key principles and practices that enable organizations to reap high profits, attract talented employees, and maintain investors. He calls these organizations Loyalty Leaders. By reading his book you will not find a \\"cookie  cutter template\\" to turn your organization around. The process of developing loyalty is much more personal. He will, however, tell you what principles drive loyalty success and share best practices among the strongest Loyalty Leaders. From concrete demonstration and articulation of what some organizations are putting into practice, you can work in your organization to ask the more effective questions, collect the most pertinent data, and design a network that will lead your organization successful forward into the new economy.  The underlying principle of The Loyalty Effect is building trust with your constituents-whom Reichheld has as customer, employee, and investor (respectively in order of importance). Customers must trust your ability to deliver, offer service, and most importantly offer value.  Everything revolves around value and trust.  The Loyalty Leaders introduced in this book all have systems in place to make sure that loyalty practices are built into their business plans. Loyalty does not belong to a specific department like marketing or customer service. Successful loyalty initiatives are owned andarticulated at the executive level. The CEO's of Loyalty Leaders are very involved in monitoring and managing loyalty. Loyalty should be at the heart of the business plans. The Loyalty Leaders highlighted in The Loyalty Effect are MBNA, State Farm, Lexus, and Chic-Fil-A. Although there are many industry differences among these organizations, they all have put into their business systems these key loyalty practices:<br />1. Build Superior Customer Value  2. Find the Right Customers 3. Earn Customer Loyalty 4. Find/Keep the Right Employees 5. Reward Loyalty Performance (Loyalty-Based Compensation) 6. Build Mutually Beneficial Relationships<br /> One awareness that comes to life in the reading of this book is the idea that companies should target their customers with as much care as they choose their employees. Targeting the right customers will help you best serve those customers, reduce marketing expenditure, and ensure wallet share. All customers are not equal. Loyal customers are more profitable when you look at the big picture. For instance, when you look at the acquisition cost, base profit, revenue growth, potential for referrals, and price premium it is easy to see that a customer that has been with you longer is a better return on your investment in acquiring that customer. Especially because some industries don't even break even until a customer has been with the organization from between three to seven years. This same equation can be applied with loyal employees.   There is so much information in this book that it is difficult to determine the most significant key points. What surfaces as the key takeaway is that Reichheld asserts that building loyalty is not \\"a nice thing to do\\"-it is a business necessity. Loyalty Leaders are setting new records in productivity and surpassing financial goals and objectives. Many perceive the \\"loyalty effect\\" to be a good idea, but somewhat \\"non-tangible.\\" There is an entire chapter call The Economics of Customer Loyalty where Reichheld actually demonstrates how organizations can capture, quantify, and measure the impact of loyalty. This is not \\"soft skill\\"-it is a business imperative.	2000-10-15
US	50126909	R2N42C5VABMM0N	0312195516	226874686	The Red Tent	Books	4	8	9	N	N	It Takes A Village	Anita Diamant has written an elegant novel. If you have children, if you have siblings, if you are in the midst of family dynamics--this is a must  read. Although the story takes place in a setting over 3000 years ago, it  is a humble reminder that the dialogue around &quot;what it means to be  human&quot; is timeless. We may have indoor plumbing, instant information  gathering through the internet, and know how to clone sheep, but the  essential issues we have not yet gotten clarity on. Those issues include:  What does it mean to be a woman? What is your duty as a man? How do you  incorporate family rituals in your own traditons once you marry and start  of new family? How do you know if you are fulfilling your destiny? You  won't find answers to these questions but you will realize the questions  that keep you up at night are historical, mythical, and community  questions. You determine the answers by how you individually live your  life. This is a beautiful story--especially for mothers and daughters as  there is much about the rites from girlhood--to womanhood. And with books  like: Secrets your mother never told you. It raises questions around the  bonds between mothers and daughters. Enjoy the collective memory, and the  story. After all, it is not merely a novel . . . it is YOUR story!	2000-08-17
US	50126909	RSOCI3PCEEBY7	0385720106	305678170	A Map of the World: A Novel (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	3	5	8	N	N	Challenging Topography	Jane Hamilton is a writer who can articulate the complex peaks and valleys of internal chaos. She does so in the rugged terrain of external tragedy. Yes, internal and external drama make up this map of the world. We learn  the geography of the protagonist Claire who is a mother of two and seems to  attract tragedy. Claire is believable, honest, vulnerable, and  introspective. If you enjoyed and endured the pain and trama of Beth in  Jacquelyn Mitchard's &quot;The Deep End of the Ocean,&quot; then you will  get a great deal out of this book.  What I liked best about &quot;A Map of  the World&quot; is that it offered a second perspective on the external  situations and internal conflicts as the second part of the book shifts to  Claire's husband Howard as the voice with which the story continues. While  it is a sad story, and not something to read if you are suffering from  depression, it is nice to be able to look at your own life and realize  &quot;things aren't really that bad.&quot;	2000-08-17
US	50126909	R3FITLC8PLCNO8	0738201030	702902204	The Arc of Ambition : Defining the Leadership Journey	Books	3	9	12	N	N	Rise, Peak, Fall	When you approach your return shot in tennis the position of the ball-rise, peak, or fall-is a critical aspect of the strength and accuracy  of your return. I couldn't help but use this analogy in the Arc of Ambition  by James Champy and Nitin Nohria<br />Many perceive business to be a process  that generates results, namely money or talent. Ambition is believed to be  a process that generates success, namely a legacy, money or recognition.  This process has three and distinct stages. The first stage is referred to  as the rise of ambition which is the initial dream of an individual and the  drive and tenacity that he or she must exert in pursuit of that dream. The  second stage is the apex of ambition where individuals seek to build an  organization bigger than themselves. Finally there is the decline of  ambition, the time when every achiever must cope with leaving the situation  and either beginning a new endeavor or setting different life  goals.<br />Champy and Nohria acknowledge that there are dangers to ambition  and that when it is a \\"self-centered\\" force pursing greed and power alone  is dangerous and destructive for both the individual and the humanity in  general. They know that this type of ambition exists. There book was  written primary to foster a positive framework around ambition and to  celebrate its potential when it is used positively to allow an individual  to reach professional and personal goals as well as to drive the progress  of humankind-be it in art, dance, science or business. We as a culture  would remain static if were not for the great achievements of motivated  individuals.<br />These authors utilize a vast array of individuals both  historical and contemporary to demonstrate the common values and character  traits that these \\"ambition models\\" demonstrated. Over the course of 10  Chapters, we are introduced to a cross-section of individuals who have made  great strides in personal and human progress. Historically, we relive  lessonsof Peter the Great, the Wright brothers, and the philanthropy of  Andrew Carnegie. Martin Luther King Jr. is acknowledged for the personal  risk he took to reform the meaning of the American dream. We are reminded  of the courageous and magnanimous Nelson Mandella and all that he has done  and continues to do in South Africa.  Of the modern economy we are exposed  to Dhirubhai Ambani, a much respected entrepreneur from India. Michael   Dell and William Gross are brought in as providing the template for modern  technical ambition. Out of thirty-nine detailed accounts of ambitious  individuals, there were only three detailed stories about ambitious women:  Margaret Thatcher, Judy George, and e-Bay's Margaret C. Whitman. You do the  math. I was disappointed that there were no historical models of ambitious  women. The voices of Mary Wollstonecraft and Susan B. Anthony apparently  were not ambitious enough to make the radar of these authors.<br />Another  point that I believe was missed in this story was the fact that the models  utilized had national or international acclaim. There was no call for  individuals to acknowledge any of the many fascinating and ambitious people  in our own neighborhoods. Just like the millionaire next door, you may be  living next to a remarkable and ambitious individual that in small steps or  in a quiet manner may be reaching remarkable personal and professional  gains. They do, however, hit on the most important point which is that each  individual is capable of seizing their ambition, \\"we believe that by  gathering your strengths and knowing your potential, you will be able to  determine your own destiny.\\"<br />Are people only born ambitious or not? Or,  can the qualities and traits that define an ambitious person be acquired  with time and attention. This team seems to believe the later-that there  are distinct aspects of ambition that can be learned, practiced, and  ultimately developed. I want to leave you with the eight ways to elevate  your ambition: 1. Achieve excellence in whatever you do. 2. Create  great value. 3. Empower the individuals who work with you. 4.  Improve the human condition. 5. Create fun and pleasure. 6. Invent  the future. 7. Use profits for public good. 8. Improve the  environment.	2000-08-04
US	50126909	R1UW4PMHLEK6C4	1565122968	780904511	Gap Creek : The Story of a Marriage	Books	3	9	9	N	N	A Story of Humilty &amp; Grace	Just as Arthur Golden in &quot;Memoirs of a Geisha&quot; articulates a female protagonist with honesty and grace, so does Robert Morgan in &quot;Gap Creek.&quot; This story shares life on the frontier at the turn  of the nineteenth century. The protagonist Julie Harmon tells of the  difficulties and challenges of that life with detail and the edge of  reality that makes &quot;Little House on Prairie&quot; seem like a slice of  Hollywood. The beauty of the story, for me, was Julie's wisdom. While she  was uneducated and had a limited vocabulary--she had profound insights and  was able to work through massive grief, lack of communication with her  husband, and family dynamics. Despite all of the challenges the story is  full of humility and grace. One of the prayers early in the story  articulates this well, \\"Lord, for what we are about to receive make us  truly thankful, and for the struggles of this life make us strong and  worthy, and for the beauties of the world make us humble and  grateful.&quot;(p.39) Words we can live by in this century.	2000-06-12
US	50126909	RRWSG7SQVZBF7	0451179196	23102508	Where Blue Begins	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Blue Is the Color of Self-Knowledge	If you are in the mood for introspection--this is the book for you. Janice Deaner is a master of arousing your curiosity. In both &quot;Where Blue Begins&quot; and &quot;The Body Spoken&quot; the narrator tells you bits  and pieces as the story unfolds. In each you have no idea where the story  is headed.It is only by continuing your reading quest that your curiosity  becomes sated. She makes you wonder why you read her books because you  learn about your need for suspense, your desire to know the characters, as  if some part of your very own Jungian shadow will be revealed. And just as  you are curious to know the outcome of the mystery that the protagonist  Maggie discovers, you will wonder how you will have been changed by the  very reading of Janice's work. Looking forward to the next Deaner  discovery.	2000-06-03
US	50126909	RUTHIL45REZ22	068485001X	780854713	Write It Down, Make It Happen: Knowing What You Want--and Getting It!	Books	4	41	52	N	N	Read It Now,  Make It Happen.	Write It Down, Make It Happen is a beautiful book about the power of writing. I have been a journal writer  from the time I was eight years old. It is amazing to me to  realize how that writing was really training me for  my current profession. My ability to express myself completely and  articulately has opened up many doors to both professional and personal  fulfillment. Professionally I know that I get invited to speak at events  and work on projects that require clean, crisp thought.<br />Personally,  writing has enabled me to process challenges and learn from my experiences  and mistakes. Until last year, I wrote about  the present: what's going on,  how I feel in the past-present. Last year, under much divine intervention,  I began writing  present-future. I began actually visualizing the life that  I wanted on paper. Rather than writing current facts and states of mind-I  articulated a vision of what I wanted and how I wanted to feel. Write It  Down, Make It Happen may be a wonderful tool for you to begin this same  process. Writing works for me. It may not work for you. I invite you to  experiment with it and discover new aspects of \\"who you are.\\" This book can  help you do this!	2000-06-03
US	50126909	R2B3T0XO1VIT0W	0671866753	460592246	Enlightened Leadership: Getting to the Heart of Change	Books	5	13	15	N	N	Meno's Manager	\\"The manager is dead!\\"  Just like Neitzche's madman, Oakley and Krug assert that management as we have know it cannot exist in the current environment of vast information and rapid change. We do not need the  military model that has been thriving in Corporate America. The world of  the 21st century requires more than a mindful puppeteer bringing his/her  men in the line of battle. The emerging model is not individual with the  answers, but the individual with the questions. If this sounds too much off  the mark, think about the last project you were involved in. How many  questions were you asked? How much time did it take to get your team on  board? Did they ever come on board? If you are like many, the answers are  perplex. But you know intuitively that the best ideas are your own. Why  would that not be any different for your employees?  The Enlightened Leader  is one who can ask the most effective questions that empower and energize  the team in order to get the commitment and creativity necessary to meet  usurmountable tasks. A question is a question is a question . . .this may  be true for Shakespeare but not for Oakley and Skug. Enlightened Leaders  are asking very intentional and structured questions called Effective  Questions (EQ). The type of questioning they suggest is counter-culteral,  not counter-intuitive. The assert that  the most effective questions follow  this very basic and positive template: Structured Effective Questions: 1)  What is already working? 2) What makes it work? 3) What is our  objective? 4) What are the benefits of achieving that objective? 5)  What can we do to move closer to the objective?<br />Oakley and Krug  understand that \\"it is vitally important to balance the energy focused on  the these two factors: supporting our  people and creating results. A  closer look at these questions provides that balance. Questions 1 and 2  provide encouragement and growth for people. Questions 3,4, and 5 focus on  creating results. \\"Both factors are essential for long term results.\\" The  difficulty that we have is most of the time we are asking core and critical  questions in crisis. It is sometimes difficult to see what is working when  the company is in the red or being taken over by another or losing core  quality employees. The power, however, comes from asking these questions in  good times and in bad. By starting with the positive-people come together  to problem solve not point fingers. Due to the complexity of today's  business the \\"cookie-cutter hierarchy\\" does not work. Each organization  needs to come up with individual and personal models that allow for  business needs to be accomplished in a manner that engages employees. While  many are practicing Total Quality Management the power comes from Total  Quality Consciousness.  This comes when leaders are asking positive and  effective questions that raise the employees awareness of what is being  accomplilshed and how they contribue to make the vision a reality.   A  large part of the book is laying the foundation for the importance of  questions in getting buy in. But all the questions in the world cannot make  an Enlightened Leader. Englightened Leaders come with a framework that have  the following core beliefs about people in the workforce: · The most  important factor in an organization's success is its people. · The  behavior of leadership has a major impact on the people. · People  resist being told what to do, and they reading commit to making their own  ideas work. · To the extent that people feel cared about and supported,  they will go to extremes to help those who  help them. · There is  tremendous support in numbers. For those of you who are feeling  uncomfortable with this emphasis on the \\"soft side\\" of business, Oakley and  Krug say \\"get used to it!\\"  When you get to the heart of most business  problems there are usually fundemental human issues at the core. Oakley and  Krug bring with them several examples of how this framework has truly  empowerd and facilitated results from a vast cross sections of business  from Hewlett-Packard, U.S Customer Service, Colorado State Patrol, and  General Electric.  While the book certainly inspires leaders to think about  how they engage their workforce and provides examples of the results of  this type of leadership. There is little information on \\"how to get there.\\"  Certainly it is a process more complicated than asking the right questions.  Traditional leaders and managers may need some more practical scenarios to  facilitate the internal and external changes needed to provide the level of  awareness that is required of Enlightened Leaders. The book is full of  wisdom from the masters including Peter Drucker, John Naisbitt, Tom Peters,  Warren Bennis, Peter Block, and W. Edwards Deming. It was dissappointing  that none of the voices highlighted were female. After all, Patricia  Aburdene helped to write Megatrends. As Peter Drucker says,\\" The best way  to predict the future is to create it,\\" there is no better way to create  your disired future than asking Effective Questions!	2000-05-30
US	50126909	R21CB9JFA492X8	0805063978	911470583	Lessons In Love: The Transformation of Spirit Through Intimacy	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Pushing Through the Fear of Intimacy	I read this book over a year ago and was surprised that there were not more customer reviews. But after reflection, I understand why. It is not that customers do not have anything to say about this book. It is that the book effects people very personally. I want you to read this book and discover your own transformation! I can tell you that the greatest gift this book offers are really effective questions that allow you to uncover layers of &quot;static&quot; that lay behind your own interactions with others and especially with those you love most. The &quot;static&quot; for me was fear and anger. I will share with you my personal testimony. My husband and I had a &quot;crisis&quot; and were separated. While he was reading John Gray's &quot;Men are from Mars, Women are from Venus&quot; I was reading &quot;Lessons in Love.&quot; As I was learning about my own motivations, I realized that I had some childhood wounds that had found there way into our marriage. Rather than treating my husband as my &quot;partner&quot; my &quot;equal&quot;--I was treating him as though he was responsible for some earlier &quot;injustice.&quot; The questions and issues raised in this book allowed me to focus on &quot;what is the real issue here&quot; and &quot;how can I get these needs met&quot; in a healthy way. My awareness didn't happen overnight and I had a lot of other support. As I have been talking to more and more people about my near fatal accident (divorce) I am learning that myself and others are terrified to be happy and accept love. This book can help you get closer to that acceptance.<br />Enjoy the journey.	2000-05-19
US	50126909	RRBM6XD0AF931	0375707972	153296191	The Reader	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Miss. Understanding	It is difficult to write a synopsis of The Reader. The intellectual interpretation is that it is a very good story of a relationship gone sour with lack of closure. The emotional interpretation is that the book is  filled with anger and resentment. We meet the narrator as a fifteen year  old boy.  Although he is a grown man now telling this story, his character  remains static as he lacks compassion and refuses to understand the world  at levels below the surface--i.e. there is no introspection that allows him  to grow, understand, find piece. As children are narcissists interpreting  the world unto themselves--forever responsible for the actions of the  universe--so is the narrator. All of a sudden his lover abandons him. But,  as we learn she had a dynamic and perplex life of her own that motivates  her. The tragic flaw of the story is the lack of communication.  The gift  of the story are the questions it raises during the debate which is the  most moral decision: to support someone's autonomy and freedom or to  support their happiness? For any of you who have children, this is the  question that keeps us awake at night. This is the question that shadows  this novel.	2000-03-01
US	50126909	R36SHP39182MVZ	0375400117	823326041	Memoirs of a Geisha	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A Rainbow Named Sayuri	I feel as though I've been asked to write a review about a person I've just met. Not a book I've read. I wouldn't be able to review a person. That would objectify that person and limit the possibilities of humanity. I  could however reflect upon the meeting of an individual so that is what I  will do here--reflect upon my meeting with the geisha, Sayuri. What an  elegant woman. Arthur Golden brings her personality so much to life that   rather than seeing a physical female person I get strong images of her  essence. And her essence is exactly that: elegant. Sayuri is strong,  determined, driven, clever, realistic, understanding and human. Each of  these attributes make up the rainbow that is her. The most predominant of  colors of this rainbow is yellow that represents her wisdom. Upon my  reading I folded over many pages with sage sayings that resonated truth and  understanding to me. One such example is the following: &quot;Adversity is  like a strong wind. I don't mean just that it holds us back from places we  might otherwise go. It also tears away from us all but the things that  cannot be torn, so that afterward we see ourselves as we really are, and  not merely as we might like to be&quot; (top p. 248)<br />It is with this  reflection that I invite you to meet my dear sister and friend the great  and humble geisha, Sayuri.	2000-02-21
US	50126909	RL12Y33RF34LS	0399142525	516121189	Necessary Madness	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Necessary Questions	In Jenn Crowell's Necessary Madness we get introduced to a mother and son enduring a &quot;spot in time&quot;-a husband and fathers recent death. Reading this story is like looking into a kaleidoscope by which your own  life experiences shape the picture that you see with your eyes squinted.  I  valued the book for the questions it raised about death: Is better for  someone to die suddenly or is it better to have time for closure? Why do  some people surrender their lives to suicide while others grasp on to the  beauty of life even as white blood cells over take them? How can a parent  be authentic in grieving when it is as Crowell reminds us such a selfish  process? These questions surfaced for me during the reading. It is a  heartfelt story that reminds us that as long as there is purpose  . .  .there is life.	2000-02-14
US	50126909	R2CEL77M4BT32L	0451179196	23102508	Where Blue Begins	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Blue is the Color of Self Knowledge	If you are in the mood for introspection--this is the book for you. Janice Deaner is a master of arousing your curiosity. In both &quot;Where Blue Begins&quot; and &quot;The Body Spoken&quot; the narrator tells you bits  and pieces as the story unfolds. In each you have no idea where the story  is headed.It is only by continuing your reading quest that your curiosity  becomes sated. She makes you wonder why you read her books because you  learn about your need for suspense, your desire to know the characters, as  if some part of your very own Jungian shadow will be revealed. And just as  you are curious to know the outcome of the mystery that the protagonist  Maggie discovers, you will wonder how you will have been changed by the  very reading of Janice's work. Looking forward to the next Deaner  discovery.	2000-02-02
