US	50123972	R3C8B2RQ4NA09I	038549565X	161920063	Ghost Soldiers: The Epic Account of World War II's Greatest Rescue Mission	Books	4	0	2	N	N	War Stories	There is something about a good war story that can intrigue even a pacifist and Hampton Sides recounting of the rescue of the the soldiers of the POWs from the Batten Death March in Ghost Soldiers is such a tale.  It contains all the necessary ingredients, heroism, sacrifice, danger and a little jingoistic chest thumping thrown in to delight many Americans.<br />Sides sets the stage by recounting in the prologue the terrible slaughter of POWs in the Puerto Princessa Prison Camp.  With this gruesome tale the reader becomes aware of the dire circumstances which the remaining prisoners existed under.  From that point the story continues in two separate threads. One thread tells about the lives of the prisoners at Cabanatuan camp and the other describes the rescue operation.<br />This story is so intriguing in part because we are given glimpses and insights into the lives of real people  who have lived through and experienced these  harrowing circumstances and exhibited exceptional courage and bravery throughout.<br />I found this book very compelling and had great difficulty putting it down.  It is a wonderful story which celebrates the best elements of the human spirit.  Sides does a superb job of beefing up the characters and bringing them to life.  I felt as if I really knew some of these people.<br />The writing and publication of this story was certainly well-timed to make the most of the resurgence of patriotiotic spirit in America.  I would like to have perhaps seen some understanding or insight into the Japanese perspective.  This wasn't the case and is my main criticism of the book.<br />Still and all it is well written, entertaining and I think a good story.	2003-01-20
US	50123972	R3DVSL1DM1OZW3	1562823361	958570005	Here Is the Artic Winter: Here is the Arctic Winter	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Quiet Beauty	Madeline Dumphy aided by the illustrations of Alan James Robinson deftly presents the quiet and austere beauty found in the frigid arctic in her book Here Is the Arctic Winter.  Young children will be mesmerized by the various animals to be found in the arctic.<br />I cannot emphasize enough how important it is to present values to children at a very young age.  Among the values which should be introduced is the positive view of nature and beauty.  Any book that helps children understand and appreciate the beauty of nature should be praised and certainly Here Is the Arctic Winter is among those.<br />The prose is told as a cumulative story with each page adding another line to the verse.  Those familiar with some basic principles of reading instruction will recognize the value of this kind of tale.  An added bonus to this is children learn such names of animals as caribou, narwhal and ptarmigan.<br /> The prose expresses the quiet beauty of the arctic during its long snow covered night.  We can well imagine the howl of the wolf breaking the silence.<br />\\"Here are the wolves<br />who howl at the sky<br />that is dark day and night,<br />where the sun does not rise<br />in this cold world of white:<br />Here is the Arctic winter\\"<br />Robinson's illustrations are gorgeous and skillfully match the prose provided by Madeline Dumphy. I love the image of the polar bear walking through the fields of snow and ice. Parents will enjoy pointing out the various animals seen on the pages of this book.<br />I gladly recommend this book as a gift to a child as a way of encouraging an appreciation and love of nature.	2002-12-07
US	50123972	R2S648ZVXDMAEO	0375724834	352044771	Motherless Brooklyn	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Surrounded by a sea..	of words, Lionel Essrog is a prisoner of the obsessiveness that binds those with Tourette's Syndrome. Jonathan Lethem introduces us to one of the most interesting characters I have come across in some time in his novel Motherless Brooklyn.<br /> As an orphan in Brooklyn, Lionel has no idea what causes his own strange behavior until Frank Minna, a local mobster takes Lionel and some of his buddies from the orphanage under his wing.  Minna frees Lionel, by not only giving him some purpose in life but by identifying the cause for his strange behavior. Lionel is no longer just a \\"freak show\\" as he is affectionately called, he is one of Frank Minna's, Minna Men or  detectives for want of a better word.<br />All is going well for Lionel until the day Frank Minna disappears into the building called Zendo and is later retrieved by Lionel from a dumpster.  At that point Lionel's life as a Minna Man is forever changed.  He finds the world he has built coming under assault.<br />It is great fun for the reader to bounce around Brooklyn with Lionel hunting for clues.  We are immersed in his strange sea of words, an uncontrollable stream of consciousness which refuses to be shut down.<br />\\"Alibi hullabaloo gullible bellyflop smellafish, sang my brain, obliterating speech.\\"<br />This is a sampling of the steady river of words flowing through in Essrog's brain and spalshing off the pages of Motherless Brooklyn.  He is an entertaining character that can go nowhere quietly or unobtrusively, but some how he manages to find his way to the depth of the mystery that destroyed his mentor.<br />Jonathan Lethem skilled writing, entertaining storytelling and engaging characterizations make Motherless Brooklyn an excellent mystery and one that is truly hard to put down.  I just couldn't get enough of Lionel and when I finished the book I sadly and reluctantly said goodbye to him.	2002-11-23
US	50123972	RNGHVOHYVVVZO	0689301383	985439920	The Gorilla Did It (Gorilla Did It Nrf)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Hey, I need a gorilla!	I think everyone does! A partner in crime and a silent buddy to blame all of your life's messes on.  The Gorilla Did It, Barbara Shook Hazen's classic tale is fast approaching it's 30th birthday and remains as true and apt today as when it was written in 1974.  Preschool children today are drawn to the story just as they were then and their parents will love reading it with them and chuckle at the gorilla's mischief as well!<br />A gorilla wakes a sleeping child up and encourages him to make a mess of his room.  When confronted by his mother about the mess, the boy tells her it wasn't his fault it was the gorilla who did it.<br />Ray Cruz's illustrations deftly convey the humor and hilarity of the situation.  They add nicely to the story and will give parent and child many opportunities to talk. I love the picture of the gorilla on his back rolling in the soap suds on the floor while Mother and child discuss who made the mess.<br />This is a delightful story for both parent and child.	2002-11-23
US	50123972	R136O8VQOFJQQ5	0446404284	70661364	The Virgin in the Ice (Brother Cadfael Mysteries)	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Cadfael at his best	In Ellis Peters sixth Brother Cadfael chronicle a headstrong young woman, Ermina Hugonin, her younger brother, Yves and a nun flee Worcester and head towards Shrubbery as Maude's forces overpower Stephens in the 12th century.  They never arrive, concerning Cadfael and the local Sheriff.  After being called to Bromfield to nurse a fellow monk to health Cadfael begins to discover the mystery of their disappearance.<br />As is her usual style Ellis Peters makes quick work of capturing the readers interest and deftly furnishes the setting with appropriate details of twelfth century life. In this chronicle especially we learn of the dangers and uncertainties created by the great civil war between Maude and Stephen.<br />With each book I grow fonder of Brother Cadfael, the former warrior who has become a monk.  Cadfael, because of his early life experiences  has a great understanding of human nature and is slow to condemn those who fail to achieve perfection.  He is constantly nurturing and makes an effort to safeguard those younger and weaker than he. In The Virgin in the Ice, Cadfael truly excels and comes into his own.  We see him as both an active participant in the events and one who is able to analyze and understand human nature and thus is able to unwind the mystery.<br />For anyone who is fond of Medieval Mystery the Brother Cadfael Chronicles shouldn't be missed and this is one of the better.	2002-11-17
US	50123972	R1CUJRW5ZRUYYV	038550098X	591346591	Last of the Amazons: A Novel	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Selene Rocks	Imagine being raised by a warrior woman who teaches and instills in you her values of life. This is the case with two young Athenians in Steven Pressfields latest novel Last of the Amazons.  Mother Bones, the narrator and her sister Europa's nanny was Selene an Amazon woman who had exchanged her freedom for that of her lover, Eleuthera during the Amazons siege of Athens and subsequent defeat. Selene taught the sisters the lessons she felt were necessary.  They were cuffed soundly for misbehavior and cowardice was not accepted.  Selene was supported by their father who believed that girls should learn to ride and run to be an asset to society.<br />When Selene learns of Eleuthera's illness she departs in dramatic fashion with Athenians giving chase to her across the Black Sea.  This event set off a great odyssey to recapture Selene. During the journey we learn of events of the past which have led to this point.<br />Steven Pressfield has a way of bringing life to ancient Greece.  This latest novel infuses life and breath into ancient myths about the Amazon.  They are present as ancient warriors who are both feared and admired.  Pressfields Amazons were tied to the earth and acted with great moral dignity.  The Amazons are great riders who communicated silently  with their horses.<br />Putting it mildly Selene rocks.  She is a great character, strong, an amazing fighter, with hints of femininity and vulnerability.  Selene is fearless.  She faces each challenge with bravery and dignity.  She never backs down or shies away from meeting an enemy.  During her life she has known freedom, servitude, love, hate, war and peace and faced each one with the dignity expected of a mythic character.  Throughout the book the reader feels kinship and support for this valiant woman.<br />The Last of the Amazons is an eminently readable book, which moves faster and more fluidly than Pressfield's previous book Tides of War.  I had trouble putting it down and was delighted to find a feminine character of such strength and fortitude.to find a feminine character of such strength and fortitude.	2002-10-26
US	50123972	R1A32BGGN6F4IB	0152026142	201473791	The Great Kapok Tree: A Tale of the Amazon Rain Forest	Books	5	14	14	N	N	The Dream	Beautiful, wild places inspire and I love to introduce this concept to young children who are so very sensitive to the beauty around them.  Children love to produce images of a world butterflies, rainbows and flowers.  Lynne Cherry uses this love to capture and intrigue children in her book about The Great Kapok Tree set in the heart of the Amazon rain forest.<br />Ms Cherry is an author and illustrator of children's books who has a sensitivity for ecological issues. In The Great Kapok Tree she presents a jungle teaming with life.  A man tires as he begins cutting the great tree down with an ax.  He tires and sleeps.  While he sleeps the animals come out of the rain forest to give him a lesson about the importance of the tree. Snakes, monkeys, butterflies, parrots, toucans, frogs jaguars and sloths all give him a pitch.  Each tree is important in the rain forest.<br />Lynne Cherry's illustrations are gorgeous, green and so alive.  Her inspiration was the Amazon rain forest which she traveled to and sketch while researching this book. Each page impresses the reader with the lushness and beauty of the region.<br />While it may seem that the concept of ecology is a bit sophisticated for a four year old it is important to remember that our early values shape our lives.  It is my hope that the children of today will have of deep love of nature that will inspire them to take the necessary care of the earth ion their future.<br />This book is a wonderful gift to a child.  I have read it to children numerous times and they are always mesmerized by it.	2002-10-06
US	50123972	R1GIZI4IL5RBAU	0590205161	792694112	I Have A Dream	Books	5	11	11	N	N	The Dream	What better gift can a parent give a child than a vision of a free and just future.  This beautiful book is the illustrated text of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr's speech given in Washington D.C. on August 28, 1963.<br />The text of King's inspirational speech is illustrated by 14 African American artists/illustrators.  Each illustration is attractive and deftly illustrates points in Dr. King's speech.  Any of the illustrations could well serve as pictures for someone's wall.  Every illustration is noteworthy and inspirational.  I love the cover illustration by Leo and Diane Dillon. Other illustrations that I am moved by include You Have Been the Veterans of Creative Suffering by Tom Feelings and The Table of Brotherhood by James E. Ransome.<br />This book would serve well for a method to introduce children to Martin Luther King.  Whether as a teacher or parent you choose to read the whole text of the speech or discuss King's life and his importance in American history, may depend on the age of the child.  While the recommended ages for reading are 4 to 8, a four year old may not understand the message.  Certainly, this book would serve as a tool for older children or even adults to get to know King and his message.<br />I think that every American should read the text of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr.'s I have a dream speech. It is as deeply meaningful and powerful today as it was in 1963.  What better way to preserve the memory of Martin Luther King's speech than owning a copy of this book either for your children or yourself. This is a truly beautiful book which would be a great and lasting addition to a children's library.	2002-09-21
US	50123972	R33VW4UQF9PJCI	0743225333	310793741	Blues Lessons: A Novel	Books	4	7	7	N	Y	Blue's Calling	During the innocent time of 1954, in rural Michigan, Martin Dijksterhuis a high school senior falls in love with his neighbor, Cory Williams who is an African American.  With the optimism of youth Martin believes in dreams and that love will overcome.  This is the stage set by Robert Hellenga in his third novel Blues Lessons.<br />Martin and Cory are constant companions since childhood. Martin's family owns the orchard where Cory's father is employed as a foreman.  One evening Cory and Martin sneak through the orchard to listen to the migrant workers playing the blues.  Martin uses the money he has saved from the Summer of working the orchards to purchase the beat up old national steel from the guitar player.  He thinks has found his calling and the love of his life.<br />Hellenga nicely captures the hope and delicacy which exists in first love.  Martin's feelings for Cory are beautiful and fragile.  Love is never as simple as we hope when we are teenagers.  Hellenga's story shows how family relationships can be strained to the breaking point when we try to choose other's path.<br />For those who have read Hellenga's previous book The Fall of a Sparrow, Blues Lessons may be a bit of a disappointment.  The story doesn't move at quite the same pace nor does it have the angst that was so apparent in The Fall of a Sparrow.  While it doesn't have the Harrowing emotions of his previous book it does examine the impact which family members have on each other and the life choices they make and the reasons behind choosing vocations.<br />As a lover of the blues I appreciate the story of Martin's love of the blues and his developing career as a blues artist. It examines the period in 1960's when blues was &quot;rediscovered&quot; and many of the original delta blues artists were &quot;found.&quot;<br />For those who appreciate stories about family relationships, I recommend this book.	2002-09-15
US	50123972	R2HDWPHJ5KF2G8	0531057437	94112258	Oranges	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A World of Work...	\\"Is in this ripe orange that I pry apart,\\" so states Oranges by Zack Rogow and that is just what an orange represents.  Rogow takes us through the journey it takes to grow an orange from the very beginnings of clearing the fields needed to plant the trees.<br />We discover seedlings being planted, irrigation ditches being dug, shiny oranges being picked, oranges being trucked and sorted and finally arriving at a vegetable stand.<br />This book provides a lesson for children not just on what it takes to grow an orange but in  the many people who work to bring an orange to market.  We meet people along the oranges journey who speak Spanish, Creole, Korean and English.<br />Illustrations done by Mary Szilagyi are works in pastels.  They are attractive and work in conjuction with the dialogue to tell the story of the orange.<br />This is a book that does much to value the work done by people of the many diverse cultures of our nation.  If you feel as a parent or teacher that this is a lesson you wish to teach your children I highly recommend it.	2002-09-14
US	50123972	RA5Z4NMYRAEBT	0823407985	766776542	Anansi and the Moss-Covered Rock	Books	4	3	8	N	N	Anasi a West African Trickster	Eric A Kimmel cleverly retells the an story Anansi folk tale in his book Anansi and the Moss-Covered Rock, which is illustrated by Janet Stevens. It is a clever story based on the folk tradition of West Africa with Anasi the spider as a trickster hero.  Anansi is a true mischief maker and after finding a magic moss-covered rock decides to use it to his friends disadvantage.  In the end it is Anasi who is taught a lesson, maybe.<br />Anasi books and tales are a wonderful way of exploring the rich traditions from West Africa.  He is derived from the Ashante who are skilled weavers and story tellers.  Anansi is associated with both the Ashante traditions of story telling and weaving.  He is an intriguing character whether he is spinning a web with words or with thread.<br />For parents and teachers introducing this story to children it is important to consider your own beliefs and views on violence and teaching lessons through violence.  The trick of the moss-covered rock is that it hits animals on the head and knocks them unconscious. While children frequently delight in this kind of slapstick humor and may not take the use of violence as condoning it, the adult should consider their own conscience in introducing this book.	2002-09-07
US	50123972	RQ1C4CQ8V1OYV	0399218068	776066124	Northern Lullaby	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Beautiful!	Author, Nancy White Carlstrom and illustrators Leo and Diane Dillon have combined their talents to create a truly beautiful bedtime story for the young child. Nancy White Carlstrom whose family moved to Alaska wanted to create a book that was reflective of the flora, fauna and traditions she found there.<br />Included in her lovely poem are both animate and inanimate items as mountains, rivers, trees stars, moon, moose, wolves, bears, foxes, and mice brought to life as members of the family, grandmothers, grandfathers, uncles, aunts, cousins, sisters, brothers, mothers and fathers.  The book supplies a profound and visual picture of our inter-connection with nature and each other that are frequently found in Native American folk tales.<br />The Dillons are well reputed children's illustrators who specialize in illustrating stories which fairly represent many different cultures.  Their illustrations in this book are outstanding and really I would love to have some of them framed. This book as other outstanding children's book could serve as a coffee table book for adults to leaf through and drool over.<br />The book is for children though and it provides a wonderful warm feeling for children as they nestle into their bed on a cold winter's night or even in the summer.  How special it is for children to know they are loved by many different family members as they fall asleep.	2002-09-07
US	50123972	R1F5C9TFI8KUQY	0679747192	607561387	Cities of the Plain: Border Trilogy (3)	Books	5	2	3	N	Y	Cuts like a knife....	Reading Cormac McCarthy's Cities of the Plain cuts like a knife leaving a steadily flowing wound when one finishes reading this the last of his Border Trilogy.  The conclusion of the trilogy begun with All the Pretty Horses which features John Grady Cole and The Crossing with Billy Parnham brings the two together.<br />As one might expect Billy Parnham and John Grady become friends who rely and care for each other in a friendship that is both simple and complicated as the tale of the American West.  Two seemingly simple men who long only to ride the range are inevitably tied together.  John Grady is the charismatic young leader who loves horses and has an eye for strength and beauty masters chess and plays at life. Billy Parnham is the caregiver and caretaker a simple observer who enters the life dreams of those around him.<br />McCarthy's stories are like multi-faceted gems.  Every perspective provides a different view and a different version of truth and beauty.  Which perspective is the truth and which are illusion?  Somehow they all form a bond and co-join to make something of ultimate honesty and pain. Within Cities of the Plain there are stories within stories.  Relationships are complex and unsettling.  Love is a thing of beauty shrouded in gloom and foreboding.<br />Every page of McCarthy book mesmerizes the reader with words and poetry.  McCarthy is one of the geniuses at the use of lyricism in writing.  His dialogues devoid of quotation marks read like poems both in Spanish and English.<br />&quot;He stared past her dark and shining hair toward the deepening dusk in the streets of the city. he thought about what he believed and what he did not believe. After a while he said that he believed in God even if he was doubtful of men's claims to know God's mind. But that a God unable to forgive was no God at all.<br />Any sin?<br />Any sin. Yes.<br />Without exceptions? She pushed her hand against his lips a second time. He kissed her fingers and took her hand away.<br />With the exception of despair, he said. There's no remedy for that.&quot;<br />In Cities of the Plain John Grady Cole finds a love of great depth and stark devotion to a Mexican prostitute. This is a love story to match the best through the ages.  It is deeply moving and stays with the reader long after the close of the book.<br />Cities of the Plain is the fitting conclusion of McCarthy's border trilogy.  It capitalizes and punctuates the lessons learned in the two prior books in a way that is both precise and painful.. <BR>With the exception of despair, he said. There's no remedy for that.&quot;<br />In Cities of the Plain John Grady Cole finds a love of great depth and stark devotion to a Mexican prostitute. This is a love story to match the best through the ages.  It is deeply moving and stays with the reader long after the close of the book.<br />Cities of the Plain is the fitting conclusion of McCarthy's border trilogy.  It capitalizes and punctuates the lessons learned in the two prior books in a way that is both precise and painful.	2002-09-02
US	50123972	R2HK8ROCT2N2YE	0399147853	952360082	Time and Chance	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Take your pick	Time and Chance, Love and Hate, Friends and Enemies, Lovers and Strangers any of these could well be the title for Sharon Kay Penman's second installment of the saga of Henry II and Eleanor of Aquitane. Penman transports the reader to the years of 1156 to 1171.  During this time we witness Henry's growth from a young daring king to a seasoned middle age king who is politically savvy.<br />As Henry grows he wrestles with issues of kingship and humanity.  Henry journeys through Wales, England and France in an effort to keep peace and maintain unity throughout the kingdom.  We learn how he balances the many interests of various people in his realm.<br />During this time of crucial political dealings Henry is also faced with changing relationships among friends and family. Thomas Becket is Henry's trusted friend and Chancellor who Henry trusts with many decisions and responsibilities.  Because of the depth of their friendship Henry advocates that Becket become the Archbishop of Canterbury.  This is the famous and classic tale of friendship's failure and the bitter seeds that follow. It has been made a legend and retold ever since.<br />As Henry changes and grows so does his love and caring for his wife Eleanor. Henry and Eleanor of Aquitane's love began as a sparkling flame.  Penman invites the reader to observe the changes and stresses that transformed this fire.  Penman is extremely adept in translating romances of old into modern feeling and understanding.<br />Penman skillfully introduces characters who the reader quickly begins to care about.  In this book as with When Christ and his Saints Slept we continue to follow Henry's uncle Rhanulf and his blind wife Rhiannon. Rhanulf's story continues to interest as he attempts to balance his loyalty to his nephew and his loyalty to Wales his adopted home land.<br />If you have read When Christ and His Saints Slept you cannot pass by Time and Chance.  Penman continues as one of the primary authors who have the ability to bring the middle ages to life.  Reading her is like entering a time machine.ring the middle ages to life.  Reading her is like entering a time machine.	2002-09-02
US	50123972	R3M93S4W41XYGT	0140281630	489174445	Heart of Darkness (Penguin Great Books of the 20th Century)	Books	5	1	1	N	Y	Follow the River to....	The Heart of Darkness by Joseph Conrad's is a tale of a journey to the very depths of the African jungle during the British colonial period.  Four men sit aboard ship on the Thames waiting for the tide to go out and their journey to begin.  While waiting, Marlow seated cross legged against the mizzenmast begins his tale his journey into the heart of darkness,  &quot;And this also has been one of the dark places on earth.&quot; As he continues his tale by saying that &quot;The conquest of the earth...is not a pretty thing when you look at it too much.<br />As a young man Marlow was intrigued by the dark spaces on maps representing the unexplored interiors of continents.  With the help of an aunt he was assigned a ship to captain on the great river of Africa.  While sailing along the African coast he felt drawn to the dark interior. Arriving at the station he meets the manager and learns from him of a manager up river named Kurtz who is able to extract amazing amounts of ivory from the heart of the continent.  Marlow's task will be to repair his damaged ship and voyage up river to Kurtz's station.<br />Conrad makes the excursion up river arduous. It is oppressive and difficult to reach the very core of the continent. The river is dark and gloomy, hanging with vines shrouded in fog.  On the shores there are great dangers, with the boat representing a safe sanctuary in a dangerous and heathen existence. With Conrad's style the reader struggles up river with Marlow to get to Kurtz and the heart of the darkness. While traveling there, the reader is  drawn to it and hypnotized.<br />The journey to find the horror at the shadowed center of the soul is a difficult one indeed.  Travel with Marlow to find if there is redemption to be found for those who chose to voyage there.	2002-08-24
US	50123972	R2H2BX99ULXD6C	0060934417	546555129	Bel Canto	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Fairy tale or just a fantasy?	A third world country in South America with hopes of drawing investment dollars decides to throw a birthday party for wealthy Japanese businessman, Mr. Hosokawa.  To lure him to the party Roxanne Coss, opera diva is performing.  Because Mr. Hosokawa is enchanted by Roxanne's voice and presence, he cannot miss the opportunity to see her in person.<br />Local revolutionaries also see this as an opportunity to force the President to release political prisoners.  Unfortunately they did not consider the president's addiction to his favorite soap opera.  The president declines to  attend this very important party, and hands the duties of host to his vice president.<br />So starts Bel Canto by Ann Patchett.  It is not so much a book about revolutionaries and terrorists as it is an examination of human frailties in times of stress.  It examines how the Stockholm Syndrome might work with music acting as a magic wand to break down conflicts and boundaries between hostages and kidnappers.  The vice president's mansion works as an enchanted castle which the party-goers dwell in suspended animation.<br />Within the book are romances that are so perfect and innocent that they remind the reader of the fairy tales of childhood. Can this fairy tale continue when the prisoners leave the enchanted castle?  Throughout the book there are indications of things to come.<br />Patchett deftly creates interesting characters that the reader begins to care about.  There is Gen, Mr. Hosokawa's assistant and translator, gifted at languages and a servant to his work ethic.  There is Carmen illiterate villager and revolutionary who falls spell to the mansion and dreams of living there forever.  Vice President, Ruben Iglesia finds his space as the perfect host, caring for hostages and hostage takers alike.<br />One wonders is this likely to have happened?  While the book mirrors events at the Japanese embassy in Peru several years ago, does it adequately explain what happened there or is it merely a fantasy.  Does the Stockholm Syndrome work reciprocally for both hostages and kidnappers until the lines ultimately break down?<br />Bel Canto is a book I enjoyed reading very much and I found myself falling under its spell.a fantasy.  Does the Stockholm Syndrome work reciprocally for both hostages and kidnappers until the lines ultimately break down?<br />Bel Canto is a book I enjoyed reading very much and I found myself falling under its spell.	2002-08-24
US	50123972	R15DAHHFF1S4RL	0531070476	637059264	Together (Orchard Paperbacks)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Celebrate...How wonderful life is .....	Chances are if you have a preschooler, they have a best friend and can spend hours talking about the fun they have together.  First friendships for children are delightful, intense experiences and George Ella Lyon has written a charming poem in celebration of these first friendships.<br />Lyon with the help of illustrator Vera Rosenberry escorts us through some wonderful experiences that two good friends have.<br />\\"You salt the ice and I'll crank the cream.<br />Let's put our hands together and dream the same dream.\\"<br />We read as the girls crank a huge ice cream maker and share a giant sundae.<br />Every page provides an imaginative scene between the two young girls, one white and one black,  who share fun and friendship together.  We see images of them building sand castles on the beach, building a house, fighting a dragon and swimming with the dolphins.  Anyone who has watched young children playing knows their imaginations are working overtime and these two girls are perfect examples of this imagination.  Children will have fun looking at the illustrations and explaining what the girls are pretending.<br />With the poetic verse and lovely imaginative illustrations you will love reading this book to your child.  It promotes such a positive message about the importance of  friendships.  It is important that adults provide children with positive ideals and messages to aspire to and this book gives a parent a beautiful way of doing just that.	2002-07-31
US	50123972	R34RTRX295IBK8	0312977182	968750330	Leavin' Trunk Blues (Nick Travers)	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Sweet Home Chicago!	Oh, baby don't you want to go<br />Back to the land of California, to my sweet home Chicago<br />It seemed like everyone in the Mississippi delta country could hear that sweet song that Robert Johnson sang calling them north to Chicago.  It fell on there ears like a sweet lullaby, a promise of a better life to the north. Young Ruby Walker was no exception.  As a teenager she haunted the roadhouses and blues joints hoping that one day she could sing the blues in the sweet home up north \\"Chicago.\\"<br />Well, Ruby did make it north and for a while it was a good and sweet home. Ruby hit the big time and became known for her song Leavin' Trunk Blues.  But it seemed predestined that Ruby was to live a life of the blues. One morning she woke up soaked in the blood of her manager and lover, Billy Lyons and before she knew it she was serving life in the big house for his murder.<br />That was in 1959 and as the years pass slowly by, Ruby steadfastly maintained that she is innocent.  She begins to write to professor and blues historian Nick Travers. Nick agrees to research the circumstances surrounding the murder, because he hopes to do research on Ruby, her life and the people she knew at the time.  Nick feels that historians are missing the opportunity to record living history by forgetting the people who participated in the great migration and focusing on the 1930's and the delta.<br />Ace Atkins has created a  tasty mystery with Leavin' Trunk Blues, the second of his Nick Travers series.  It is nicely atmospheric taking place in Chicago with Nick visiting blues clubs as well as Chicago's seedy underbelly to dig up information.  Fast paced with action and adventure to spare, it draws the reader quickly into Nicks world.<br />Nick is an unlikely sleuth.  A former football player who fell in love with the blues and became a blues historian from Tulane University.  We find out that he can get down and dirty with the best of them and there are times in Leavin' Trunk Blues that he has to.<br />For a fan of mysteries or a fan of the blues, Leavin' Trunk Blues is a great read.  If you are both it is even better.he has to.<br />For a fan of mysteries or a fan of the blues, Leavin' Trunk Blues is a great read.  If you are both it is even better.	2002-07-31
US	50123972	R1W8G98D3OFG19	0060254920	137917341	Where the Wild Things Are	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Roar!	The night Max wore his wolf suit and made mischief of one kind..and another<br />So starts one of the most perfect and wonderful illustrated children's books of all time.  Max like many children has been engaged in a bit of mischief and is sent to bed without supper. While in his room he imagines an imaginary place where the \\"beasts\\" are wild and he is ruler. Max learns that this is not the kind of place he wants to live  and even though he has made mischief, he is still loved by his parents.  Both are important lessons for a child.<br />As a preschool teacher, I have read this book countless times to many children and can attest to its appeal.  The children are delighted to roll their eyes, show their claws and roar their roars along with the wild things when the wild rumpus starts.  For new parents this is one book I would say to include in your child's library.  I'm sure that you will read it enough times to memorize it.<br />Maurice Sendak's Where The Wild Things Are was first published in 1963 so stands the test of time having served generations of children.  The story and illustrations are as appealing today as they were nearly 40 years ago.	2002-07-20
US	50123972	R2QOSUAJ9NCR70	0525401156	734733545	Stopping By Woods on a Snowy Evening	Books	5	40	41	N	N	A Gift of Poetry & Beauty	Stopping By Woods On A Snowy Evening is Susan Jeffers' illustrated book of the Robert Frost poem.  It is a beautifully illustrated book which can be enjoyed by the parent as a child sits snugly on their lap.<br />I think it is a book that shows a great deal of respect.  It respects the intelligence of the child by introducing beautiful \\"adult\\" poetry to the young. Simultaneously it is respectful of the adult reader allowing them to read something which is jointly appealing.  This is ideally how an illustrated book should be.  It should have appeal to both the reader and the listener and this book is a perfect example of that.<br />Susan Jeffers illustrations are exquisite.  She captures the quiet beauty of the woods on a snowy evening. Animals peak from behind trees and bushes watching the man and his sleigh.  There is plenty to be observed by child and parent while reading this book .  It will be a thrill to find and name the animals while reading the book. Every page is a work of art.<br />The illustrations also work to tell a story within a story providing possible explanations for why the man is in the woods on that particular evening.  Children will have some fun seeing the kinds of this this old gentleman does when no one is watching.<br />Stopping by Woods on a Snowy Evening is a wonderful wintertime book, but will make an excellent read in any season.  What a wonderful gift for an adult to make for a child, a gift of poetry and beauty.	2002-07-20
US	50123972	R3BCUKUZWTXG49	0789452065	290521921	Ultimate Rose (American Rose Society)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Ultimate Pleasure	It is indeed an ultimate pleasure to look at the beautiful pictures of the American Rose Society's book the Ultimate Rose. It is clear looking through the book why the rose throughout the ages has seemed to hook and entice so many individuals into growing  and breeding them.<br />The book is well organized with chapters on history, classification, growing, arranging and drying.  Each section important and necessary for a book about roses.<br />The largest portion of the book is dedicated to the classification of roses with a description and history of each type of rose as perpetual, Bourbon, hybrid tea or other and numerous pictures of roses representing each type of rose.  The pictures are exquisite.  I look through the book and dream of more roses I could have and try to imagine where on my tiny plot I could plant one more.  With each picture is a brief description as follows for the grandiflora rose &quot;Queen Elizabeth&quot;, &quot;The first to be classed as a grandiflora, this rose has won many top awards through the world&quot;<br />As would be expected from a Rose Society book the chapter on growing roses is very useful and informative.  Here the pictures help to illustrate techniques as pruning and planting roses. This chapter describes how to choose roses to purchases, proper planting techniques, maintenance, pest control and pruning.<br />For those of us with a rose habit, we not only want to grow them, arrange them, but learn everything we can about them. If you are starting a rose library this is one which should be included. It is simply a nice coffee table book to browse through and admire the photos, rose grower or not, it may induce you to begin planting roses.	2002-07-19
US	50123972	R30DNBPQPMMDEB	0679760849	179801447	The Crossing (The Border Trilogy, Book 2)	Books	5	106	122	N	Y	The Other Side	It begins as an innocent story of two young brothers, Billy Parham, 16 and Boyd Parham, 14 giving food to an Indian. Billy and Boyd live on a ranch with their parents in New Mexico and are required to help with the work there.  One of Billies tasks is to trap  a wolf  who is attacking and killing their cattle.  Billy becomes intrigued by the primitive and wild creature, who seems to intelligently elude capture.  He attempts to learn about the wolf by asking an old and learned man about the ways of  wolves.  As Billy begins to feel a kinship with the wolf he discovers it caught in one of his traps.  He realizes that he cannot kill it and impulsively sets out for the Mexican border to return the wolf to where it came from.  By crossing the border, Billy adventures into an nether world.  It is not simply another country, but another reality.<br />We could easily call The Crossing a coming of age story, an adventure story, a quest or an epic poem, but it is all that and much more.  As with any coming of age story, Billy Parham loss of innocence comes with a price of great consequence.  Like an adventure story The Crossing is filled with action and unexpected situations. As with tales of quests as the Iliad and Gulliver's Travels we meet strange and interesting creatures along Billy's path.  Like an epic poem The Crossing is filled with lyrical prose, both in Spanish and English.<br />Cormac McCarthy is one of the great American authors of the twentieth century and he proves it  in once again in the Crossing the second book of his border trilogy.  His prose is beautiful to read, with dialogue devoid of quotation marks and contractions missing apostrophes.  He shifts from English to Spanish can be challenging to the non-Spanish reader.  His scenes rich with descriptors can be stark and ruthless.  The reader should be prepared to be shocked and moved.<br />Reading McCarthy comes with a price.  After reading one of his books the reader feels changed, drained and at a loss.  I, like Billy cannot retrieve my innocence.  It disappeared when I went south of the border with him.  As the Spanish Gypsy tells him<br /> \\"We think we are the victims of time. In reality, the way of the world isn't fixed anywhere.  How could that be possible?  We are our own journey.  And therefore we are time as well.  We are the same.  Fugitive.  Inscrutable.  Ruthless.\\"<br />I cannot helped but be moved by Cormac McCarthy's work and The Crossing was perhaps the favorite, which I have read.ss.  I, like Billy cannot retrieve my innocence.  It disappeared when I went south of the border with him.  As the Spanish Gypsy tells him<br /> \\"We think we are the victims of time. In reality, the way of the world isn't fixed anywhere.  How could that be possible?  We are our own journey.  And therefore we are time as well.  We are the same.  Fugitive.  Inscrutable.  Ruthless.\\"<br />I cannot helped but be moved by Cormac McCarthy's work and The Crossing was perhaps the favorite, which I have read.	2002-07-15
US	50123972	RKCF6OVX3KC9O	0671511424	585102301	DEVIL IN A BLUE DRESS	Books	4	6	8	N	N	Devilish Mystery	It sounded like a deal that was too good to pass up to Easy Rawlins an African-American veteran of WWII who had just lost his job.  All he had to do was hang out at jazz clubs and find a blond woman who was a friend to Mr. Albright and he would earn enough money to make his mortgage payment.<br />Easy soon finds out that easy money is never easy!  Before long it seems that Easy has met the blond, had a little interview with the police, has uncovered a few corpses and is in fear for his life.<br />Walter Mosley's first Easy Rawlins mystery Devil in a Blue Dress is an interesting and exciting read.  The post war Los Angeles of Easy Rawlins is a dangerous and difficult place to live in filled with smoke filled jazz bars, schemers, police brutality and friends who would as soon as double cross you as shake your hand.  Everyone has a motive and everyone has the means to be a suspect and by the end of the book you will be shaking your head when you finally figure out who done what.<br />Devil in a Blue Dress is definitely a book to read if you like noir mysteries.  It has well developed characters and an atmosphere you can cut with a knife. Watch out you may get hooked on Easy especially when you imagine him looking like Denzel.	2002-07-06
US	50123972	R3U31JMJU61U3H	0006514952	844571296	Of Marriageable Age	Books	5	22	25	N	Y	An Intricate Tapestry	When speaking of the book Of Marriageable Age by Sharon Maas it is difficult not to use such words as tapestry, intricate and woven.  Each thread of the story seems to be woven in such a way as to create an intricate tapestry which presents a delicate picture of the lives of the characters in this book.  It is true that author Sharon Maas believes that there exists a grand scheme to our lives and that if we are sensitive to, in her words \\"the magnetism\\" we will indeed benefit.  This belief is aptly demonstrated in the book.<br />The setting for the book is on three continents, India in Asia, Guyana in South America and Britain in Europe and the time span is from the 1920's through the 1960's. The main characters are tied to each other in intricate and mysterious ways.  The older generation who grew up in India, are David, an English boy and Savitri, daughter of his servants and the younger generation, Saroj a young girl of Indian descent growing up in Guyana and Nat, an Indian orphan.  For those of us who came of age in the 1960's in the United States it is interesting to see that people of other countries and cultures were dealing with similar issues at that time.  For Saroj, a young woman from Guyana and Nat, a young man from Indian the issues of rebellion and independence from the older generation were part of their struggle for maturity.<br />Saroj grows to adulthood nurturing a hatred for her father who she feels is all things evil and who  wants to control her and subjugate her.  When she is a young teenager he arranges a marriage for her, which she desperately fights against.  Her dream is to become educated in England and to achieve that dream she feels she must wage a successful battle against her father.<br />I would encourage readers to follow Saroj, Savitri, David and Nat in their journey through life to see what composite picture is finally revealed as their lives interweave.	2002-06-30
US	50123972	R3F47PW6UHT5DU	0802138756	54125228	Violencia!: A Musical Novel	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Where's the cd?	Paul Gurney, Bruce Jay Friedman's protagonist in his comic novel Violencia, torn by his recent divorce and suffering from a mid-life crisis of sorts quits his day job as clerk for the New York Homicide department and editor of a homicide newsletter. While adrift in his search for himself and a new job, Paul is recruited to write a musical play about a homicide department.  Norman Welles, a composer who has read Gurney's newsletter feels he will be the perfect author of such a play.  Gurney lets himself be convinced and he is off on his quest for fame and fortune along Broadway.<br />Gurney who is a novice, fits easily into the role of although he is rudderless and easily mislead.  He quickly finds himself surrounded by strange and interesting characters, and quite at home with them.  There is Norman Welles a composer who seems to think that an opening number for a homicide movie should be a light romantic number which is about Paris in the off-season. Gurney's personal hero is director Clement Hartog who comes with the extra baggage of a mother who must be in each of his plays. Essie Hartog, Clement's mother an aging star who performs all of her roles on stilts will play the detective bureau chief.  Then there is the unlucky producer Undertag who has never had a successful Broadway play.  It makes perfect sense that Gurney will fit right in with them.<br />The descriptions of the behind the scenes work on the play are intriguing. Of special interest is the passages about the songs which Welles had ineptly prepared for the musical. Odd scenes as restaurant odors offending playgoers, dancers on stilts and telegrams from the dead add to the humor of the novel.<br />Friedman has a talent for creating strange characters, and amusing situations while providing commentary on philosophy and life.  Paul Gurney, who begins working on the play directionless and insecure seems to gain perspective and confidence working on a project which seems doomed from the start.  This is not a novel of great depth nor was it meant to be.  It certainly is an amusing way to spend an afternoon.  I have only one question, where is the CD?not a novel of great depth nor was it meant to be.  It certainly is an amusing way to spend an afternoon.  I have only one question, where is the CD?	2002-05-26
US	50123972	R3VRBVIFL88FLR	0395437806	836911555	Night Soldiers	Books	5	15	15	N	N	Story of Intrigue and War	Alan Furst explores pre and war time Europe though the eyes of Khristo Stoianev in his book Night Soldier.  Khristo is a Bulgarian youth who watches helplessly as his younger brother is kicked to death by Nazis.  Feeling powerless he hooks up with revolutionaries. Soon he must flee from Bulgaria and journeys to the Soviet Union to train as a spy.  Night Soldier's is a chronicle of his life through a turbulent time as Khristo journeys through Europe.<br />Furst tells this story of intrigue and war with great skill. The story begins with the brutal death of Khristos brother and continues from one war torn setting to another.  It appears that there was no place of peace and hope for the people of this time and place. Furst clearly defines the brutality of the period and the difficult moral choices which the people of Europe were faced with.  He has peopled the story with intriguing characters who react with courage, strength, cunning, avarice and fear.  Many like Khristo are trying their best to see their way through these years to survive.<br />Khristo is an ever interesting character.  First driven to do what is right he is given a taste of the difficult choices in the life of a spy, when a lover betrays him and his superiors request that he take care of her.  He soon finds the Russian tentacles under Stalin to be as evil as the Nazi's who he is fighting.  He would like to elude them both and tries to, but in a warring Europe it is no easy task.<br />For those interested in stories set in WWII or tales of intrigue this book is recommended.	2002-05-10
US	50123972	R3CPFKA5921B5L	0376038756	989404838	Western Garden Book	Books	5	130	136	N	N	The One to Have	If you could only have one garden book and you live in the west,  this is the one to choose.  It is an absolutely indispensable tool for the novice and master gardener alike.  Any question regarding a particular plant can usually be answered quickly and easily through this resource. As editor Kathleen N. Brenzel states in the dedication, &quot;This book remains a no-nonsense garden guide for Westerners, built upon the rich legacy of previous editions.&quot;  It is a guide designed purposely to bring gardening in the west into the new millennium .<br />One of my key questions before purchasing this book was if there were significant improvements over the 1995 which justified the expense of a new copy.  That is a question which each individual should assess. The new 2001 edition has significant improvements over the 1995 edition.  2001 contains 768 pages as compared to the 624 of the 1995. The first section of this edition is &quot;Gardening for the New Century&quot;  with a look to traditions of the past and ideas for the future.<br />The Sunset division of climate zones has always been meticulous and more precise than other zone guides.  The West has so many micro-climates which are separated by short distances and differ by altitude, morning fog and delta breezes that it is important in choosing plants to know which are likely to survive in your zone.  The big addition to the latest edition is that it is inclusive of Alaska, Hawaii and Western Canada. For gardeners who live in these areas, Sunset has now made their day.<br />The ever thoughtful Plant Selection Section has been reworked to include divisions for color, basic landscaping, special situation and problem solvers.  The problem solver is particularly helpful including plants to use for dry areas, shade, seacoast and deer resistant plants.<br />The meat of the Garden Book has always been its encyclopedia and continues to be.  When choosing a plant from a nursery this reference guide is critical. Editors took extra care to make this section even more attractive by including color illustrations of many of the plants.  For each plant information included describes zones where they will thrive, exposure to sun, amount of water necessary and if the plant is poisonous.<br />The Practical Guide to Gardening section provides information on various gardening techniques, problems and pest.  Information on weeds, gardening to attract wildlife and drip systems are included in this section.<br />The last two sections of the Western Garden Book are Public and Historic Gardens and the new Gardening Glossary which is quite helpful to the novice gardener.<br />The Western Garden Book continues to be an invaluable resource for gardeners of the west.  Those who already have the 1995 edition but who feel the need to have all the latest in information and equipment should purchase this edition.  Residents of Hawaii, Alaska and Western Canada should be thrilled with this edition.  Anyone who is planning a new landscape would also be advised to have the most current version of The Western Garden Book.<br />Kudos yet again to Sunset for their excellent work.k extra care to make this section even more attractive by including color illustrations of many of the plants.  For each plant information included describes zones where they will thrive, exposure to sun, amount of water necessary and if the plant is poisonous.<br />The Practical Guide to Gardening section provides information on various gardening techniques, problems and pest.  Information on weeds, gardening to attract wildlife and drip systems are included in this section.<br />The last two sections of the Western Garden Book are Public and Historic Gardens and the new Gardening Glossary which is quite helpful to the novice gardener.<br />The Western Garden Book continues to be an invaluable resource for gardeners of the west.  Those who already have the 1995 edition but who feel the need to have all the latest in information and equipment should purchase this edition.  Residents of Hawaii, Alaska and Western Canada should be thrilled with this edition.  Anyone who is planning a new landscape would also be advised to have the most current version of The Western Garden Book. <br />Kudos yet again to Sunset for their excellent work.	2002-04-07
US	50123972	R2P8EOP43B6EBN	3857094710	458650022	Black & White Blues	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Snapshots of the Blues	Marc Norberg's compilation of photographs of Blues performers provides us with a snapshot of blues artists who for the most part are still alive and performing today.  Luckily, he was able to capture some notables who are no longer with us as well.  Among those are Luther Allison, Charles Brown, Willie Dixon, John Lee Hooker, Jimmy Rodgers, and Junior Wells.  He includes drummers, pianist, vocalists, harp masters, guitar whizzes, saxophonist and even an accordion player.  His photographs represent artists from Chicago, Louisiana, Texas, The west coast, deep south and England.<br />The pages of the book are approximately 11 x 11 inches, with most photographs spanning the entire page.  The book was meant to be opened flat with a photograph on one side and a verbal sketch on the other page.  The brief biographies of the blues artists are uneven in length and detail.  B.B. King rates a scant few sentences and accordion player Buckwheat Zydeco a lengthy description.<br />It is tied together nicely and fittingly by starting with Honeyboy Edwards, the musician who played with Robert Johnson the evening before he died and ending with Robert Jr. Lockwood, Robert Johnson's stepson and only person he was known to have taught his guitar skills to. Throughout the book we are able to see the influences of blues greats as Robert Johnson, Muddy Waters and Elmore James among others.<br />Some of the pictures are quite outstanding.  I am particularly fond of the one of bare chested John Winter in all of his tattooed splendor.  Another notable one is of Luther Allison holding his USA shaped guitar with a truly devilish expression on his face.<br />The blues world today has many extremely talented female musicians and few were included in this work.  Notable omissions are Bonnie Raitt, Irma Thomas, and Rory Block.  Marc Norberg made an effort to include some of the more obscure blues artists and it would have been nice to see some female ones as well,<br />Norberg stated that it was a continuing work and one hopes that he has since photographed some of the notable artists missing in this work.<br />This is a well done blues coffee table book .  Do not mistake it for a blues history or a blues biography.  It is a definite plus for the serious blues fan.continuing work and one hopes that he has since photographed some of the notable artists missing in this work.  <br />This is a well done blues coffee table book .  Do not mistake it for a blues history or a blues biography.  It is a definite plus for the serious blues fan.	2002-04-07
US	50123972	R2SCMR7OSL57PH	1565121821	460083122	The Sharpshooter Blues (Front Porch Paperbacks)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Delta Blues	Imagine being in a world filled with humidity, drooping moss, parrots flying, sounds of Robert Johnson singing to the wind and motoring the swampy delta in a boat powered by an evinrude motor.  This is the world of Hydro Raney a young man stunted mentally by hydro-encephalitis.  Lewis Nordan draws us into this strange and magical world in his book Sharp-Shooter Blues.  Every character is deftly created and a pleasure to meet.<br />Hydro Raney is a gentle and innocent young man who readers will easily takes into their heart.  He is a person of simple wants and needs who takes people he meets at face value.  His father loves him dearly and sings him to sleep at night.  Hydro willingly places a cantaloupe on his head for his sharpshooter friend Morgan to shoot off.  While this turns out successfully, Hydro in his innocence is not prepared to deal with everyone who comes his way.<br />Prepare to meet as well: the Lovely children who are beautiful to look at, but hide behind their looks and beauty; Louis, the young comic book geek who is witness to the darkest moments of the book; the Prince of Darkness the mortician that rose from the dead. The Sharp Shooter Blues is awash with wonderful southern characters that, leave a lasting impression on the reader.<br />Lewis Nordan is a gifted story teller who has crafted a book of extreme pain and beauty.  There is so much life, sadness and depth to the book that I dog eared numerous pages to go back and read again. It is beautifully written and leave the reader with much to think about.<br />If you have not yet discovered Lewis Nordan do pick up a copy of the Sharp Shooter Blues.  It is a story that reads swiftly but that will stay with you long after.	2002-03-25
US	50123972	R2YRKLC2HZCMC	0385474547	672855451	Things Fall Apart	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Universal Truths or Culture Clash?	Things Fall Apart written by Chinua Achebe in 1959 is a lasting study of how one man's strengths and weaknesses are universal qualities.  So many of us vow to lead our lives differently than our parents and in that effort of identity and purpose allow the pendulum to swing too far in the opposite direction. Such is the case of Okonkwo, a proud Nigerian tribesman who is embarrassed by his father Unoka. While Unoka is popular, he is also lazy and fails to adequately provide for his family.<br />Okonkwo is an African Horatio Alger who lifted himself up from the poverty his father left him with to become an influential and successful man in his tribe.  Okonkwo is not without vanities and frailties. As he once lived in shame over his father's laziness and poverty, so now he walks in pride, failing to see his imperfections and need for guidance by others. He is rightly proud of his accomplishments and feels his achievements somehow put him beyond the rules and mores that guide the tribal life. This is a story about how social systems work to control personal behavior and the consequences for ignoring them.<br />Things Fall Apart is and interesting and entertaining look at tribal life in pre and early colonial Nigeria.  It details daily life in a tribe, carefully examining superstitions and laws which guide the day to day living.  Throughout the book tribal myths and stories are interspersed to illustrate how a cultures mythology effects there everyday living.<br />Things Fall Apart works on two levels. In part it is a character study which reveals universal truths for individuals living in any society and secondly it is a study of a society which existed prior to the colonization of Nigeria.  Both levels make this book a valued one.  It is a relatively short novel and a quick read.<br />I recommend the book for anyone who is interested in learning about Africa and learning about human nature.	2002-03-25
US	50123972	R1NQLHZNRH5C49	0553286447	287368783	Stalking the Angel (Elvis Cole, Book 2)	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Good Quick Read	Elvis Cole, a quirky LA detective is recruited by a wealthy business man, Bradley Warren, to retrieve an important Japanese manuscript, called the \\"Hagakure\\" which was stolen from Warren's safe.  While Elvis is reluctant to take the case he  soon discovers  that there is more to the story, so decides to uncover the truth. Warren's wife Sheila is a sex starved alcoholic and his daugter Mimi is a deeply unhappy and ignored teenager.<br />The second installment of Robert Crais' Elvis Cole series Stalking The Angel is a good quick read. It is hard boiled mystery,  which takes the reader on a journey through seedy sections of Little Tokyo to the wealthy mansions of southern California.  Crais' Elvis Cole is a quirky detective who has a fondness for Mickey memorabilia.  Cole is both skeptical observer and kind-hearted helper.  He partners with Joe Pike, who is in charge of the security part of there business.<br />Uncovering a mystery is always an interesting challenge and Crais provides enough twists and turns to challenge even the most astute mystery reader.  In fact, the end leaves the reader to decide the answer for one untied thread.<br />A rainy afternoon, a day for relaxation or any excuse for a quick light read pick up Stalking the Angel and enjoy.	2002-03-10
US	50123972	R9VXVBGEJ4IMV	0345396685	12198688	When Christ and His Saints Slept: A Novel	Books	5	0	1	N	N	First of Three	When Christ and His Saints Slept is the first of a trilogy of historical fiction planned by Sharon Kay Penman. The journey through history extends from 1120 to 1154. In 1120 on the fateful voyage of the White Ship Henry I's heir apparent William is drowned with the rest of the passengers. Without a legitimate male heir to the throne Henry I named his daughter Maude to be his successor.  This decision proved to have dire consequences for  England.  Penman deftly describes the resulting times of struggle and turbulence.<br />Maude's cousin Stephen sized the throne before she was crowned empress thereby plunging England into a period of unrest, war and crime.  Stephen is portrayed as a great warrior, but uncertain king. He is easily swayed by advisors who jockeyed for influence and prestige. He lacked the ruthlessness which was necessary for a leader of those times, because of his reluctance to mete out punishment  called for by medieval standards.<br />While Maude has the resolution to be empress, she lacks the compassion and flexibility to rule with authority. Maude was unable to see that she had to win support, rather than demand it as a her right as a ruler.  She eventually understands that the struggle is not against Steven, but for her son Henry.<br />Penman introduces us to an intriguing cast of characters during an intriguing period of history.  Ranulf, a bastard son of Henry I, is a loyal and sensitive supporter of his sister Maude.  Penman involves us in his friendships, loves and battles. Ranulf is a complex character who is strongly loyal, while searching for his place in a dangerous time.<br />Penman is commended for bringing to life medieval England.  Fans of these times should not miss this book.	2002-03-03
US	50123972	R2292PG72RX45M	0312979533	52317828	A Place of Execution	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Quality Mystery	Quality Mystery<br />Val McDermid brings us face to face with some disturbing issues in her book A Place of Execution.  A child's disappearance is always unsettling and McDermid's novel about  young Allison Carter vanishing from the closed community of Scardale is most disturbing. McDermid's tale is one which brings to light questions of justice and vengeance as well as providing the reader with a quality mystery story<br />Chief Inspector George Bennett and Detective Sergeant Tommy Clough join forces in their search for the missing 13 year-old.  Both men are interesting characters who have an innate sense of justice and a strong desire for Allison to be returned to those she loves.  The residents of the hamlet of Scardale, where young Allison is from seem determined to put obstacles in the way of the detectives.  All residents are related to each other and seem to know each other's business, but when the need to be truthful and honest is so vital they seem to be less than forthcoming.  This in itself is a mystery, because Allison is a well loved and valued member of the community.  It is odd that Scardale would be so distrustful of strangers as to disrupt the investigation.<br />While this book is a stand alone the team of George Bennett and Tommy Clough are an intriguing pair.  Bennett a young and inexperienced detective is sincere and idealistic in his goals.  George has a sympathy for the victim which is appealing and honest.  Tommy Clough is a seasoned veteran who seems impossible to fool and as such is a valuable asset to  George in his search for the truth in Scardale.<br />There are sufficient clues for the experienced mystery readers to guess some of the story, but even for them, there should be some surprises in store.	2002-03-03
US	50123972	R23EEEQV4EKHOE	0679728759	53277980	Blood Meridian: Or the Evening Redness in the West	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Journey to the Heart of Darkness or Apocalypse Then	Cormac McCarthy skillfully uses the power of word to weave an intricate and terrifying piece of poetry called Blood Meridian or the Evening Redness in the West. The title provides telling clues to the subject of the book, which is based on a true story of the Glanton Gang.  It is a bloody epoch of horror associated with the trials and tribulations of the Glanton Gang who rode south of the border to peddle scalps for profit and glory.<br />A nameless orphan or the Kid as he is known throughout Blood Meridian is released from a Mexican jail only to find himself a member of a gang hunting Apaches for bounty.  There is no glory to be found in his travels with the gang.  One bloody mishap layers upon another, each told with McCarthy's unfailing lyricism, until the reader slowly realizes there is no escape from this heart of darkness.  The kid may well have fared better in the Mexican jail.<br />The glorified myth of the manifest destiny of the nation is skillfully torn asunder by McCarthy.  There is no immaculate history.  By the vision of the Blood Meridian it was a gang of social lepers doing their best to earn a little gold and silver without once considering morality or the value of life.<br />Words of warning are necessary for those considering reading this book. It is not for the soft hearted or those with weak stomachs.  An example of a scene typical of the book, after purchasing two puppies from a child one member of the gang casually tosses them from a bridge into the stream below while another shoots them.<br />Truthfully despite the McCarthy's beautiful and lyrical writing and the scope and magnitude of story, I considered carefully if it deserved the five stars, because of the extreme violence of the book.  How does one tell a story of violence without including it?	2002-01-22
US	50123972	R136DCUTH8B2F1	0740700944	991709165	The Alchemy Of Love (Monterey Editions)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A Perfect Valentine	This cute little book is perfect for St. Valentine's Day.  It measures 2 3/4\\" x 2 3/4\\" x 1\\", which is just right for a purse or a pocket.  The cover is decorative and colorful, with pinks and lavender.  Inside is a wealth of information about the art and alchemy of love.<br />Debra Keller has done her research and discovered interesting facts and information about love metals and stones, herbs and flowers associate with love, love potions, spells and lore.  The reader learns for instance that silver is the most powerful and pure metal associated with love.  Various stones and semi precious gems can be worn close to ones heart to draw a lover to you. There are flowers for enhancing sexuality, renewing lost love and ensuring undying love.<br />This petite book offers solutions to all kinds of love problems. There are potions and solutions for those who wish to make themselves more attractive, find true love, or discern a lover feelings. Even for those of us who have been long and happily married there are little tricks to reignite the fires.<br />The Alchemy of Love makes a wonderful present and it is just fun to have on hand.	2002-01-21
US	50123972	R1I9N3B7JKDPG9	0316769177	862964341	The Catcher in the Rye	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Fifty Years After	Fifty years after it was first published and thirty (something) years after I first readThe Catcher in The Rye, I decided to reread it to see if it had the same impact as the first time.  Holden Caufield's lost weekend in New York seemed so risque and daring when I read it as a teenager.  I was most impressed with the language he used and wished that I could be as fast and loose with my language. Thirty years later does add some perspective and in view of language use today, The Catcher in the Rye seems awfully mild. Holden is obviously an imperfect and confused hero in search of finding his way in the adult world which he both covets and despises.  He is not well equipped for this quest, frequently failing to communicate is desires and feelings to the world around him. Caufield's pathetic attempts to communicate and involve himself with others leads him into further isolation.<br />Holden Caufield, the teenager created by J.D. Salinger is a strangely vulnerable young man at odds with the phonies of the earth.  After being expelled from one more prep school Caufield gathers his resources and spends a weekend in New York City before planning to return home.  Caufield is an amusing and obsessive youth who has an opinion about everything.  Holden a disorganized and directionless dweeb is true to his own values and morals.  He is loyal to those he loves and cares for his sister Phoebe and friend Jane, while despising those who do not live up to his standards.<br />If you have not read this book it is high time to give it a try.	2002-01-05
US	50123972	R1LW7FD1E79SAQ	0446530522	77058110	Cane River (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	5	12	15	N	N	Survival Story	Lalita Tademy tells of how in the search for her ancestors one in particular, Philomene grabbed her and seem to urge her to follow her quest and bring their lives to meaning through the words of a book.  It was such a compulsion that she quit her high paying, high powered day job as Vice President at Sun Microsystems to research and write the saga of Cane River and I as a reader am glad she did.<br />The story starts at a plantation in Cane River Louisiana in 1834 and follows the brave women who fought for the survival of their family, Elizabeth, Suzette, Philomene and Emily.  The goal of all the women is to insure the survival of the family which is often a difficult goal for those who do not own their freedom.  It is one which requires compromises and difficult sacrifices.  Lalita Tademy makes these seem all the more real and genuine, because it is the story of her family.<br />Cane River while neither fully a novel or a history serves to illustrate how difficult lives were for those who were enslaved during our early American history. I am thankful that Tademy has taken the time to tell her families story.  It is a story which we should all be aware of.	2002-01-05
US	50123972	R3HQLOYV76U6FS	0380726238	733601761	A Drink Before the War (Patrick Kenzie/Angela Gennaro Novels)	Books	5	7	10	N	N	Simple Case	Simple Case<br />When Dennis Lehane was twenty-five he wrote A Drink Before the War, the first novel of his Patrick Kenzie, Angela Gennaro series.  We are introduced to them as they are asked to find a missing cleaning woman who has stolen important documents from political cronies of Patrick's deceased father. Patrick senses that there is more to the story that meets the eye and we soon find out that he is right.<br />Patrick is a different kind of detective.  Raised in the tough streets of Boston, he has adopted the bendable morals of the street.  His vision is complicated by the abusive relationship which existed between his father and him.  while many viewed his father as a sort of a hero, Patrick knew the real man who hurt him as a young child.  Further  complicating matters, Patrick  loves his detective partner the tough street smart Angie Gennaro, who is locked in an abusive relationship with her husband.<br />As they proceed through the investigation they find some extremely seedy characters, and Patrick has his childhood friend Bubba inflict justice on his own terms.  This book  and others of Lehane's do not come up with the pat the hero wins the fight for truth and justice that is found in many mysteries.  Dennis Lehane believes that this is too simple and untrue solutions to lifes dilemmas.<br />Lehane also introduces intricate themes to his mysteries.  We see a battle of man is an island versus man desire to be  involved and committed to others.  While we get a feel for Patrick and Angela, they remain illusive.  Bubba is a sort of mythological shadow figure of Boston.<br />For those interested in mysteries with a bit more complex plot and intricate characterizations a Dennis Lehane book is a worthy read.	2002-01-02
US	50123972	R9A68Z08LJL56	0312204426	66792691	The Wild Colonial Boy: A Novel	Books	5	7	10	N	N	Wild Idealism	Brian Donovan, The Wild Colonial Boy of James Hynes novel is a footloose idealistic soul who has long worshiped his grandfathers revolutionary roots.  Donovan's grandfather was long ago forced to flee to America because of his activity in the IRA.  He has continued to support it.  When he finds he needs a courier to deliver $10,000 to the IRA, Brian willingly obliges.  Brian sees this as an adventure of a life and soon finds out that it is more of an adventure than he anticipated. Jimmy Coogan, Brian's cousins husband and a violent extremist who is on the outs with the moderates of the IRA, forces Brian to assist him in the delivery of explosive plastique.<br />Along the way Brian meets Clare another young American, who he is romantically interested in.  The two become caught up in a dangerous game with varying factions of the IRA.  Clearly Brian's idealism and mythism about the IRA have not prepared him for the harsh realities which coexist in Ireland today.  Brian is a boy playing a man's game and ill-prepared for the test of courage that he faces in making crucial moral decisions.<br />Clare and Brian serve as symbols of contrasting visions of morality and courage.  Both are  young and idealistic, but they have different ideals of loyalty, courage and ethics.  It is interesting to follow them on their journey to see their evolving definitions of these issues.  The tale is a very exciting one, but a very real one in which young people in Ireland today have to face these decisions on a daily basis.  It is clear from the novel that the average American  has little understanding of the scope of the movement.<br />I suggest this book for reading for anyone who enjoys a tale of adventure or who is interested in Ireland today.	2002-01-01
US	50123972	R164RMLVDPNM3J	0446404373	341295919	Leper of Saint Giles (Brother Cadfael Mysteries)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Medieval mystery and romance	The Leper of Saint Giles the fifth book in Ellis Peters' Brother Cadfael series, exemplifies everything which is laudable in her series. Peters' shines in creating characters who we love, and  excels in the ability to set the stage in the medieval world. Balancing mystery with romance is never an easy matter and  Ellis Peters has created an entire series where this is her forte.  In addition this series does not cling to the traditional sense of justice found in many other mysteries.<br />Brother Cadfael is at his best.  He is both a spiritual being and a worldly one.  He is as comfortable in the church as he is talking with a knights mistress.  Cadfael has an innate ability to sense what is good in true in a person and works actively to support those with just causes.  In the instance of this novel it is a young squire, Joss and a wealthy heiress Iveta. Iveta is a pawn of her aunt and uncle who plan to marry her to an aging knight and divide her land between them. Joss loves Iveta and plans on finding away to protect her.  when a murder halts the marriage, Joss is the first suspect.<br />The setting is once again the Benedictine Abbey of Saint Peter and Saint Paul in Shrewsbury, but this time it also includes the leper colony of Saint Giles.  the reader is introduced to some of the horrors and indignities which the lepers lived through.  Brother Mark works among them and recognizes the dignity of the human spirit.<br />I suggest this book as reading for those who love medieval mysteries.	2001-12-31
US	50123972	R2EQPR35GRV4YB	0821767739	51054941	Seize The Dawn (Zebra Historical Romance)	Books	4	6	7	N	N	A Fine Romance	Lady Eleanor of Clarin is traveling to France to marry her fathers friend in order to provide security for her people.  On her way her ship is rudely border by pirates.  During her captivity on board she encounters Brendan Graham of Scotland.  Eleanor blames all Scots for her fathers death, but cannot deny the attraction.  This is the start of  Shannon Drake's Seize the Dawn, which is part of the chronicles of her own family history.<br />Requisite of all romances is the necessary heat and sizzle between hero and heroine and there is undeniable sparks between Brendan and Eleanor.  There are also the necessary hurdles to overcome, Eleanor's own prejudice against the Scots and a marriage interfere with their happily ever after. Between them there is also the tension which makes exciting reading in romance stories.<br />I for one look forward to reading the sequels of this series.	2001-12-31
US	50123972	R2D9WUPCG5KXW3	0140089225	354380790	The Bone People: A Novel	Books	4	7	9	N	N	Beautiful and Harrowing	Three is the magic number of Keri Hulme's book The Bone People. Three people, Kerewin Holmes an artist who lives by the sea in an enchanted tower which she built, Joe a Maori man who lives in a house of pain of his own creation and Simon the lost child who searching for a home, band together to form a strange family.<br />These three become involved with each other in a dance of death and destruction and a battle for redemption of the human spirit. They make up the family of man or the bone people, brittle ungiving beings who are attempting to fight the isolation of their souls and find fulfillment in involving themselves with each other.  These three are represented by a woman Keri the artist, a man Joe the lost warrior and the child, Simon the hope for the future.  Can they join together and heal each other or will they work to cause each other's destruction.  That is the question of the Bone People.<br />Keri Hulme's has a gift with words.  Her stream of consciousness writing is beautiful and compelling.  Despite the beauty of her words, the story is harrowing and heart breaking.  We so often hurt those who we love most.  The assault on young Simon is a violence both verbal and brutally physical.  Are the young resilient in nature or are they brittle and easily broken? Is the child truly the savior of the man?  These are questions which Hulme's seems to ask.<br />Throughout the book the theme of family is recurrent.  What comprises a family and what obligations do family members have to each other.  The family is a bright promise kept , a joining of human lives and spirits.  The members of the bone people are drawn to their own isolation.  They have found diverse methods of self destruction and use them skillfully.  The reader journeys through the book simultaneously loving and hating the members of this strange family.<br />I cannot help but recommend this book, but with the precaution that it is quite difficult reading, both in plot and style.	2001-12-31
US	50123972	R1ZCLEDQHC2Y1D	0425141977	813189523	A Share in Death	Books	4	77	78	N	N	An Excellent Start	Deborah Crombie's first book A Share in Death in her series about Scotland Yard detective Duncan Kincaid and his Sergeant Gemma James shows great promise for the series.  Duncan is taking advantage of a vacation at a timeshare in Yorkshire which his cousin has offered him. He looks forward to the week away from his professional responsibilities.  Unfortunately, it soon becomes apparent that it will not be as relaxing as planned when Duncan discovers a body in the jacuzzi. Duncan  realizes that he will have to participate in some capacity with the investigation for it to be resolve successfully.<br />It is  a classic plot for a mystery with all of the suspects  in one spot and  forced to examine each others motives.  People's mistakes lead them in to further danger.  They begin to suspect each other and emotions heighten .  To aid in the investigation, Duncan sends his capable sergeant Gemma on a fact-finding tour about the resident guests of the time share.<br />Characters are done with interest and the reader is caught up hoping that some are not involved in the felony and that others will not perish.  Crombie skillfully uncovers a bit of information at a time until it is clear who the culprit is and there is the right amount of tension in hoping for apprehension.<br />At the conclusion of the book the reader is ready to read the next of the series.	2001-12-29
US	50123972	R1Z1KQORQGWG14	0553381393	282597222	Tides of War	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Of War and Heroes	Steven Pressfield tells the story of the heroes of war in ancient Greece with considerable skill and a sense for the detail and ambiance of the time in his book Tides of War. The story is told by Jason, who is defending both Socrates and Polemides, the man who is accused of murdering Alcibiades.<br />In many ways this tragic story is one of great insight regarding the role heroes of the day play in our lives.  Alcibiades, a leading general of Greece, was vastly influential in the tides of the Peloponnesian War in which Athens and Sparta struggled for superiority in the ancient world. Alcibiades was a gifted and moving spokesman who embodied all that was considered beautiful at  the time.  He was a gifted sportsman and with his magnetic presence could easily sway his peers in wartime and peace.  During times of peace he had great gusto for living and few scruples.  In wartime Alcibiades willingly took the risks necessary to secure victory.  He chose his sides by necessity and his loyalty was often in question.<br />Pressfield deftly manages to both educate and entertain.  Tides of War is both a history  and a novel of some insight about war and soldiers.  Polemides brother, Lion is presented as a man of great integrity.  Lion states &quot;I was taught as a boy that a goddess resides there, silent, in that sanctuary at the pinnacle of pain.  This goddess's name is Victory.&quot;  Pressfield is gifted in presenting the world of the soldier in both language and character in a way that brings realism and authenticity to the work.<br />For those in search of a quick and entertaining read, it may be best to avoid the Tides of War.  It is a detailed book that takes quite effort and time to devour in its entirety.  For those who have the stamina to stick to it, you will be rewarded.	2001-12-29
US	50123972	RN3SU26Y5M98X	0451526554	363093333	Jane Eyre (Signet Classics)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Template for Gothics	Jane Eyre by Charlotte Bronte is the template for many books that followed.  We find Jane Eyre the orphan child soon to be abandoned by her uncaring aunt to a stern stark girls school.  Jane has a spirit that does not quake in the face of dangers.  She is the model for feminists in years to come.<br />Charlotte Bronte the author of the book was born in 1816 and like Jane had experience as a governess.  Jane Eyre was first published in 1847. By reading the book one can experience  the harsh times that existed in the era.  Young children had little protection from society outside of their family and those without families were at risk.  The school,  Jane attends is a uncaring and stoic establishment.  Even so Jane flourishes because of her strong spirit and desire to learn.<br />After leaving the school Jane bravely sets out to be governess.  It is here that she meets Mr. Rochester her silent and mysterious employer.  Jane has the ability to see the real spirit of a person and draws for Mr. Rochester with her subtle elfin charms. Throughout the book Jane maintains an integrity of being and an independent spirit.  She demands that others, who she cares for respect her as an individual as well as a woman.  Jane is a person who doesn't accept the limitations which fate has set forth for her.<br />In many ways this novel was far ahead of its time in recognizing women as individuals who were capable and independent beings.  The plot is one that has been used repeatedly in novels yet to come.  Any reader of romances or gothic stories should first read this to find the source of the story.	2001-11-19
US	50123972	R7DUKN7KAX9KN	0061099732	539565036	Outer Banks	Books	4	18	20	N	N	Can You Go Back?	Anne Rivers Siddons, the author of Outer Banks is comfortable explaining the southern soul, but she also understands the depth of friendships that develop during a young woman's formative years.  Many of us can remember the deep friendships we formed when away at college for the first time.  We often look at these friendships with idealism and nostalgia.<br />Kate who is fighting a battle with cancer is asked to attend a reunion with her three closest college friends, Cecie, Ginger and Fig.  Kate is unsure that she wants to return or see these friends again.  There was a time when she loved them dearly, but that time is long past and betrayals bridge that gap.<br />Siddons presents a book in which things are not what they seem .  There are numerous deceptions and undercurrents beneath the surface of the happy reunion.  Each participate has developed their own agenda and their perception of their happy college life differs vastly.<br />The setting of the outer banks is intriguing and the reader feels the attraction of the sun and ocean.  Soon the reader also begins to feel the compelling and seductive force of the waves and is effect on the lives of those of the shore dwellers.<br />I highly recommend this book to those who enjoy stories about complex relationships	2001-11-19
US	50123972	R3E989WY3ZV65H	0553583158	905302949	Legacy of the Dead (Inspector Ian Rutledge)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	The Dead leave their Legacy	The dead leave their legacy in many forms after a war.  Charles Todd's writes about post WWI England in Legacy of the Dead.  Ian Rutledge makes another appearance as the twisted, wounded Scotland Yard Inspector haunted by the great war.  In this novel Ian has a chance to atone for the past by investigating the murder charges of widow Fiona McDonald the fiance of Hamish McLeod the man who haunts Ian.  After a smear campaign Fiona is charged with the murder of Eleanor Gray, the woman who the villagers believe is the real mother of Fiona's  child.<br />Ian Rutledge is a man walking a tight rope - poised on the precipice between the realms of sanity and insanity.  He carries with him as a complaining companion Hamish McLeod, a man who was executed for cowardice during the war.  Charles Todd presents an England in which war has left a mark and ravaged the culture from average man to the great.  The people are beginning to pick up the pieces and put the normalcy back in their lives. Todd shows how many people have continuing difficulty with this, after having big portions of their lives torn from them.  The heroes and villains of his work are all distorted by the War.<br />Legacy of the Dead like other works of Todd's has a dark and gloomy setting, which some readers may not appreciate.  Within this gloominess, there appears the edges of a glow of the sun.  Readers can appreciate the strength of the human spirit.  Ian Rutledge does seem to persevere and follow the right and decent human path. It seems that with each book the complexities of Rutledge character becomes more defined.  This book adds a needed chapter to his life.  I look forward to reading additional Charles Todd books.	2001-11-15
US	50123972	R10Y73OCMNMB5E	0679767398	231777935	South of the Border, West of the Sun: A Novel	Books	4	0	2	N	N	Noir - Japanese	In South of the Border West of the Sun we are introduced to Hajime a Japanese Jazz club owner who is going through a mid-life crisis.  Hajime has made it to this point of his life without having a sense of purpose or any goals.  He is seeking the meaning of love, life and death.<br />Haruki Murakami created a book of Japanese Noir in South of the Border West of the Sun.  I loved the writing style, very noir, like mysteries by T. Jefferson Parker or James Ellroy which seemed so unusual for this type of fiction.  It made it seem so American to me.  I wondered if the translation was intended that way or if it is Murakami's style.  There is one very compelling scene in which Hajime stealthily follows a woman through the rainy dark streets of Tokyo.<br />The main character Hajime an only child born in 1951 seems to be looking for love in all the wrong places. Hajime meets his soul mate, Shimamoto as a young boy, but soon moves away from her. In his adolescents like many others he discovers the joy of sex.  From that point love and sex becomes a driving force in his somewhat aimless life. He is a very obsessive man who drifts through life without fully knowing why. His perspective on love seems stereo typical feminine, with his expressed feeling being that life has no real purpose without true love.<br />The style was so easy to read. Hajime is simultaneously humorous and crazed. It is enjoyable despite this reader's impatience with the main character.	2001-11-12
US	50123972	R2DHN2PC0GAYSF	0375725164	988655532	Bluesman: A Novel	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Dazed and confused in the blues.	Dazed and confused in the blues<br />Leo Sayer the young protagonist in Andre Dubus III's book the Bluesman is a young man coming of age in the time of social upheaval of the Vietnam era. Like many young man of that age his interest is sex, passion and music while trying to discover who he is and who he is going to be. Much to his delight he discovers sex with his girlfriend Allie Donovan.  While being tutored by Allie on essential knowledge of the opposite sex, Leo is guided by his three father figures on the meaning of life.  Leo's father Jim, introduces him to the world of Blues and acquaints Leo with his diseased mother,through her diaries and poetic writings. Leo's uncle Ryder provides harp lessons and helps Leo to feel the blues.  Allies father Chick Donovan gives Leo an opportunity to work for him as a carpenter and teaches him the philosophy of Carl Marx.<br />Throughout all of his lessons Leo exhibits a sensitivity, but remains dazed and confused as to the direction of his life. During this time Leo is faced with some decisions, which others of this era faced as well as some unexpected choices.  Dubus, adeptly holds the readers interest and the reader alternately feels frustrated and sympathetic with Leo.<br />Dubus is a skilled writer and his lyrical style reinforces the dreaminess of Leo's character.  It encapsulates the essence of a youth who is impatient to get on with life along with the insecurity of how to go about it.<br />Bluesman is recommended reading for those familiar with the Vietnam era and those who would like to know more about it.	2001-11-12
US	50123972	R1IJD68OA87PAU	0425177025	146400729	Death of a Colonial (Sir John Fielding)	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Alexander Brings Interesting Historical Period to Life	Death of a Colonial by Bruce Alexander brings to life an interesting historical period.  Sir John Fielding a blind magistrate in London helped to develop the Bow Street Runners, the first professional police organization in England .  Sir John, the brother of Henry Fielding was a famed and gifted magistrate who compensated for his lack of sight by developing other skills.  It is said that he never forgot a voice and could recognize a criminal by his voice alone.<br />Sixteen year old Jeremy Proctor assists Fielding in this pursuit of justice in Death of a Colonial.  Fielding is commissioned to ascertain the validity of the claim of a fortune by Lawrence Paltrow the brother of an executed murderer, Arthur Paltrow. Arthur had been a wealthy man when he was executed and it was thought that there were no heirs to his estate. Together Jeremy and Fielding travel to Bath to meet the man's mother. It is at this point that the plot thickens.  Jeremy and Fielding work together as a formidable team in discovering the conspirators.<br />Death of a colonial is rich in description of the feeling and times of England from Bath to London to Oxford. The reader is intrigued by Fieldings and Jeremy's journey through England and is ready to assist them in their search for criminals. The characters in the book are well developed and entertaining.<br />This is an entertaining book for those who love historical mysteries. Those who want fast paced action may wish to avoid this book	2001-11-05
US	50123972	R1J4Z0DEVC80QM	0446400513	510904084	One Corpse Too Many (Chronicles of Brother Cadfael)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Dire times for Shrewsbury	Dire times for Shrewsbury<br />In this book the second of Ellis Peter's Brother Cadfael series we find Shrewsbury in 1138 in deep trouble.  The forces of King Stephen are approaching and citizens are scrambling to align themselves with the victor. Unfortunately those in the castle were aligned with the Empress Maude and paid dearly for it.<br />This book introduces us to the crafty Hugh Beringar a worthy friend or foe to Cadfael.  Part of Cadfael's dilemma in this chronicle is to determine which Beringar is.  They are evenly matched for foxiness, but we hope that Cadfael's age may assist him in the end.<br />This series is a must for the medieval lover.  It is an excellent mystery and will keep the reader guessing.	2001-08-12
US	50123972	RCMLN22P4V4ZG	0451203593	897342569	24 Hours	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Nail Biter	Greg Iles again shows us that he is a master of suspense in his recent book 24 Hours.  Ex- convict Joey has figured out a way of getting rich quick and avoiding imprisonment by kidnapping the child and watching the parents every move to insure that they go along with the plan to pay and avoid authorities.  This plan has worked successfully five times.  Will and Karen Jennings are the unaware victims of the next time.<br />Iles pace is perfect for a thriller.  24 Hours is truly a book that you cannot put down.  Characters are interesting and you quickly feel sympathy for those you should and detest the villains.  It is a book you could easily see on the silverscreen and there are a few scenes which seem almost to be written for the special effects.<br />If you love thrillers, this is one of the most thrilling I have read in some time.	2001-08-11
US	50123972	RKZP9BN9FL19	0786868619	719432164	Stolen Lives: Twenty Years in a Desert Jail (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	4	4	5	N	N	five stars for story and three stars for style	Malika Oufkir tells us the powerful and tragic story of her life in the book Stolen Lives.  She begins the story describing her life as a princess after being adopted by the king of Morocco.  She lived an almost unreal life of luxury while at court. The opulence Malika describes is comparable to the time of Marie Antoinette.  From the resplendent court, her life is irrevocably altered when her father fails in an assassination attempt and her entire family is placed in prison including her three year  old brother.<br />The family's story is extraordinary.  Their triumph of spirit is remarkable considering the duration and horrors which they suffered.  We see the importance of unity and belief of oneself and each other. We see incredible love and sacrifice.  But we also see how imprisonment can degrade the human spirit and affect the psyche.<br />We learn in the preface of the book, how Malika came to hire Michele Fitoussi as the co-author of her book.  Throughout the book, the reader cannot help but wonder why.  It is a shame that such an interesting and compelling story was  so poorly written. The author fails terribly in her attempt to describe herself as a sympathetic person prior to her imprisonment.  The continual jumping back and forth in time  is confusing and annoying to a reader.  I also wondered if perhaps the translation was poor, because of the use of certain words and general lack of eloquence from a person who entertained her family with her stories in their darkest hour.<br />Another book which may interest readers who liked and appreciated Stolen Lives is In the Time of Butterflies by Julia Alvarez.  Readers who appreciate stories about the triumph of the human spirit will enjoy Stolen Lives.	2001-08-06
US	50123972	R10TXRM3KDF9SB	0679738908	514368968	A Gathering of Old Men	Books	5	18	19	N	N	Taking a Stand	Ernest Gaines clearly demonstrates his love of the land and people of Louisiana in A Gathering of Old Men.  In a storyline which has similarities with Agatha Christie's Murder on the Orient Express, eighteen old Afro-American men take a stand by admitting to a murder of the local racist bully Beau Boutan.  Their position gives them the authority to redeem their dignity.<br />Ernest Gaines is a masterful writer and a compelling story-teller.  The book is structured almost as a number of short stories.  Each chapter adds to the whole and is told from a different persons point of view.  Each short synapsis provides insight into a new character and the choices and perspectives which they hold.<br />This is a story about changing times, the late 1970's.  This is a story about strength and dignity.  This is a story about father and son.  This is a story about black and white.  There is so much involved in this short novel.  In addition to that, it is told in a way that is interesting and readable.  I had trouble putting the book down.  It certainly was one of the more important books I have read in years.<br />I advise anyone concerned about the vitality and diversity found in American Literature to read this.	2001-08-04
US	50123972	R597TZ7B1B7B3	0446403016	281605156	St. Peter's Fair (Chronicles of Brother Cadfael)	Books	4	1	3	N	N	Medieval Controversy	St. Peter's Fair is another excellent Brother Cadfael chronicle by Ellis Peter's.  She continues the story of a monk inside the monastery, who has already seen much of the world.  St. Peter's Fair opens with a controversy between the locals and monastery.  The local people of Shrewsbury feel that the monastery is reaping unjust benefit from the fair without giving the town its just due.  Soon a merchant at the fair is found murdered and a local is implicated.<br />Cadfael uses the skills he developed outside of the monastery to help track the murderer.  Aiding him is Hugh Beringar, who was introduced in a previous chronicle.  Cadfael continues to develop as a warm, loving human, who has a sense of justice.<br />Ellis Peters is a must for any fan of medieval tales.	2001-08-04
US	50123972	R3PXSK76YQ2EQO	0515124796	213031560	Cold Blood	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Twisted Lady	With Cold Blood, Lynda LaPlante continues her story of ex-cop Lorraine Page which she began in Cold Shoulder. Lorraine Page continues her journey back to the top in Cold Blood after hitting rock bottom, and turning tricks for survival in Cold Shoulder.  While this book does not contain the angst of the previous, it is a good, readable detective story.<br />With an offer of one million dollars on the table, Lorraine joins the hunt for lost heiress Anna Louise Caley. Lorraine uses her street savvy and cop instinct to help her find the clues to the mystery. She interviews, intimidates and uses sex to find the clues to Anna Louise's whereabouts.<br />Lorraine continues to be one of the more interesting female detectives.  She is a person of dubious morals, who has left much of value behind her.  She substitutes sex for love and fights alcoholism with varying success.  Lorraine is perhaps the toughest female in the genre, not always likable, but always interesting.<br />If you like hard-boiled mysteries, this is an excellent book.  Please read Cold Shoulder first.	2001-08-04
US	50123972	R17G19TWSRMUCN	0786867280	908407552	Silent Joe: A Novel	Books	4	7	7	N	N	The Sounds of Silence	There is much to be learned when you keep your mouth shut.  Working as a body guard for his adoptive father horribly scarred silent Joe took everything in.  He learned not to talk, but to listen.  Joe became an invisible man.  This unfortunately served him well, when it came time for him to track the murderers of one crime he did not want to contemplate.<br />T. Jefferson Parker presents a world of wheeling and dealing politicians ensconced in southern California. They are all ready to sell their souls and then some.  It is a creepy surreal world through which silent Joe creeps.<br />Silent Joe is a wonderful creature, who I hope to see in future books. Joe is a man who should be repulsive, but has that unknown thing which draws women.  He is an intricate man, who the reader would gladly follow on endless adventure.<br />The plot touches on themes of love, redemption, forgiveness and revenge.  which of these contradicting emotions might win over?  Read Silent Joe and find out.<br />This is a recommended book for lovers of hard-boiled mystery.	2001-07-18
US	50123972	R1CYZSACP70U0X	067972818X	755826924	Selected Poems of Langston Hughes: A Classic Collection of Poems by a Master of American Verse (Vintage Classics)	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Dreams Deferred	Langston Hughes wrote poetry of exquisite pain and beauty throughout his life.  His poetry can be sparse and rhythmic. It evinces visions of cities, the south, churches and deep muddy rivers.<br />Hughes touches on every subject important to life in 20th century America: family, friends, race, religion,love, music, prejudice and poverty.  Each poem sparingly provides an image in words.  Together these poems represent the great work of a true artist of the American Poetry.<br />One of his most popular and poignant poems is Harlem.  It contains such beauty in his phrase - &quot;a dream deferred&quot; and such power in his words or does it explode?<br />I recommend this highly to anyone interested in modern poets and poetry.	2001-07-16
US	50123972	R3SLAARSL1ZSE5	0060995084	966753383	The Saturday Morning Murder: A Psychoanalytic Case (Michael Ohayon Mysteries, No. 1)	Books	4	20	21	N	N	Analyzing a murder	When Shlomo Gold finds his mentor well known psycho analyst Eva Neidorf,  dead early one Saturday morning in Jerusalem, detective Michael Ohayon begins his search for the murderer.  Batya Gur meticulously lays out the clues while providing the reader with information about Freudian psychoanalysis.<br />Gur's writing is not the fast paced mystery that some prefer,  it slowly draws the reader to the conclusion. providing little steps along the way.  She does give away the culprit before the end of the book and the mystery that remains is how Michael Ohayon will manage to snare the murderer. Gur's use of the setting and background information regarding Freudian psychology deftly adds to the interest of this book.<br />Michael Ohayon is an interesting detective.  He is a troubled, thoughtful man who could use some psychoanalysis himself.  Ohayon is a complex creature who has the feel for solving crimes.<br />This book is to be recommended especially to those who enjoy psychology and who have at least some background in the Freudian technique.  Those readers who prefer fast paced reading should avoid the Saturday Morning Murder.	2001-07-15
US	50123972	R2SKM12ROLUQ2N	0553562738	466136665	Doomsday Book	Books	4	2	3	N	Y	time-travel &amp; The middle ages	The premise of the Doomsday Book by Connie Willis is a world in the near future in which historians can travel through time to discover more about the history of a period.  While the technology is there it is not perfected so errors may occur.  Kivrin an eager young scholar want to travel to the fourteenth century in the pre-plague era. Through unforeseen circumstances prevents her easy return as planned. The book transitions from the past to the future each of which are having their problems.<br />The reader is able to follow Kivrin through the harrowing aspects of the time.  Willis effectively describes the period and the people.  She explains points which Kivrin will have to be aware of to fit in to the society.  While in the middle ages Kivrin befriends two children  and  a local priest.  Through these friendships we are able to learn about  fashions, values and mores of the society.<br />Characters in the book are interesting and entertaining although all are not fully fleshed out.  None the less the reader grows to care for both the characters of the past and future.<br />Some of the scientific details and technicalities seemed a little overdone.  The description of the translator which allowed Kivrin to understand medieval English was lengthy and tedious.<br />This book provides two of my very favorite elements time travel and the medieval period. For fans of either  this is a must read.	2001-05-26
US	50123972	R29AB34YQE2235	0553580671	317255283	Places in the Dark	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Places in the heart	Thomas Cook provides us with a story of two brothers in Places in the Dark.  Cal and Billie  love each other dearly but are vying for their mothers love .. It is the story of a dysfunctional family and mother who bestows love on one son but  leaves the other son alone to be loved by her husband.  Thomas Cook is a gifted writer who quickly hooks the reader into the story.  We watch Cal and Billie grow up and find them competing for the love of a mysterious young woman, Dora March who drifts into the town of Port Alma, Maine in 1937.<br />As Cal searches for Dora who he believes has murdered his brother the reader is given the story little by little.  Billie is presented as a reckless soul who follows his heart but is always flirting with disaster.  Cal sees himself as his brother's protector.  Cal is an aloof man who has learned to face life without the need for love.<br />It is a moving story of love and betrayal.  As the tale unfolds we begin to learn more about Dora, but she always remains a shadow figure.<br />This is a recommended book for readers of mysteries and modern fiction	2001-04-30
US	50123972	R34WOZS4D4CI92	0446400157	580002452	A Morbid Taste for Bones	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Ladies and Gentleman.... Brother Cadfael	Brother Cadfael introduced to us by Ellis Peters in a Morbid Taste for Bones is a brother at Saint Peter and Saint Paul Benedictine abbey in Shrewsbury. Cadfael has seen his share of the world before entering abbey life.  He fought in the crusades and has known his share of women.  Cadfael knows what he gives up by joining the abbey and what he has to gain.<br />Ellis Peters offers us a completely likable sleuth, with Brother Cadfaiel and educates the reader about the time in England when Maud and Stephen  fight for the throne.  She presents characters with the human frailties familiar to the modern reader, but puts them in a twelfth century setting.  We are able to learn the tension which exists between the Welsh and the English at the time.<br />The mystery involves the death of an opponent to the moving of Saint Winifred from her home in Wales to Shrewsbury. The mystery itself is intriguing, but not mind boggling.  It is the characters and the setting that draws the reader.  We become involved in the politics of the abbey with monks vying for top position.<br />This is an interesting and entertaining start of a series.  Medieval fans should be delighted.  For those who love cozies this is a good series to entertain and educate.	2001-04-30
US	50123972	R12WSN4RWDE13X	0446403008	529886679	Monk's Hood (Brother Cadfael Mysteries)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	The third chronicle	Ellis Peters continues her story of Brother Cadfael in Monk's Hood.  Cadfael is at home in Saint Peter and Saint Paul Abbey in Shrewsbury, tending his herb garden and mixing his potions.  Unfortunately one of his potions designed to ease the aching body finds its way into a dish served to Gervase Bonel a guest who has donated his land in exchange for lifelong stay at the abbey.<br />Gervase step son is the top suspect and we are led on a  chase through the English countryside in search of this young man.  Brother  Cadfael once again proves his shrewd insight into human nature and works hard to see that justice is served.<br />The reader is gifted with an assortment of interesting characters and a trip through the Welsh countryside during the twelfth century. Peters sets the stage for more political maneuverings at the abbey.<br />This is a lively and entertaining series of mysteries and should appeal to any medieval fan.	2001-04-30
US	50123972	R3C5R012UI93BA	0385720114	977875409	The Map of Love: A Novel	Books	5	13	15	N	N	bridge across nations and generations	Ahdaf Soueif presents two tales to provide a bridge across nations and generations.  Amal receives a trunk from Isabel a love interest of Amal's brother Omar who resides in New York.  She becomes immersed  in  uncovering the story of Anna an English woman of the early twentieth century which is found in journals in the trunk, one side of which Amal is already familiar with. While making her discoveries in the trunk Amal finds the ties that bound her great uncle are again entrapping her brother.  The map of love is a continuing tapestry of life.<br />Soueif is a gifted writer and presents a compelling tale in a lyrical and poetic manner.  She invites  the reader into the life stories of Anna and Sharif.  It is a story that cannot be happily ever after, but is mesmerizing. Amal is an intriguing character whose complete story is hidden behind the tapestry of Anna and Sharif and Isabel and Omar. Anna also is an interesting character.  A young woman haunted by the death of her husband who she feels she didn't love enough.  Anna travels to Egypt to seek redemption and solace.<br />This book can be difficult in the sense that the reader is given much one sided information about the development of Egypt in the twentieth century.  It is hard to put into context and does not necessarily help in the telling of the story. However it is a story about politics and nations and how they effect are lives and who we love and the effort it takes to rise above these walls.<br />This is a book for anyone who appreciates a good love story and is willing to move at the pace of Amal who takes one piece of the map of love out of the trunk at a time.	2001-04-30
US	50123972	RTWSAA4B4582G	0446609749	348043467	Getting Back	Books	3	8	10	N	N	Getting Back to the Future	As William Dietrich sees the future in Getting Back cities have expanded beyond all boundaries and everyone is given a pleasant career nook under the rule of United Corporations. The problem is not everyone feels happy or copperative in their given career role.  Daniel Dyson, the main character feels alienated and unhappy.  He spends his free time in the cyber world trying to uncover secrets of the UC or running &quot;outside&quot; an extremely dangerous way to pass time.  Dyson buys onto a trip by Outback Adventures and finds himself in the outback of Australia under extremely trying conditions.<br />In purchasing this book, labeled a mystery thriller, I assumed it was more of a man against nature with a human adversary thrown in for good measure. Instead it is a futuristic novel whose vision may not be far off the mark - there are genetic engineering fowl-ups, mega conglomerates who rule the world and massive epidemics which wipe out large segments of the population.  While the book promotes a back to nature perspective it does not adequately describe the scenery and the struggles with nature.<br />After a prologue that catches the readers interest and is exciting and intriguing.  The author spends over one hundred long pages setting the scene of the future before the action really gets rolling.  There is a side romance to satisfy everyone, however Raven(the woman) never fills out to be any more than a shadow woman.<br />Having said all that I would recommend this book to those who enjoy futuristic novels and a look at the five star reviews proves that there are those who found the book to be more to their taste.	2001-04-03
US	50123972	R1U9XSD3DG887J	0440225701	454775948	The Street Lawyer	Books	4	2	2	N	N	time to reassess	There are moments that change a life.  Times when the average person must reassess who s/he is and the directions chosen for life.  When Michael Brock a high powered attorney on the fast pace to make partner in a high-powered law firm is confronted by a loaded gun in a hostage situation he is forced to reassess his choices thus far.  They don't seem all that good.  He is living in a meaningless marriage with a wife who competes with him for the most important lifework and who yearns to be a fellow martyr for her chosen profession of physician.<br />Grisham  has been attempting new and different storylines.  some have worked more successfully than others.  While many criticize his writing style I find him eminently readable.  He may not be deep or poetic, but he does keep a storyline going and I find myself always rooting for his characters, even those which I do not entirely like.  Is Michael Brock sincere in his attempt to change his life and become a advocate for the homeless and destitute.  Well, its' hard to say.  Read the book and decide.<br />For those Grisham fans, you will most likely enjoy this book as well.  It doesn't have the thrill and suspense of The Firm, The Client or A Time to Kill.  It continues on the theme of making a better world that was noteworthy in The Testament.  I personally do not rate this book as high as some of those named, but it rates above some of his others.	2001-03-28
US	50123972	R2FYQRDF82B8KM	0451408012	317232401	Lord of Midnight (Topaz Historical Romance)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Will love win over	Jo Beverly builds a medieval romance in Lord of Midnight set on the premise that a loving daughter must marry her father's killer.  Will love win over these over whelming odds?  Renald de Lisle is King Henry I champion.  Renald is chosen to fight against Claire's father who has supported a losing cause against Henry I and in favor of his older brother Robert.  Claire's father believes that Henry is responsible for the death of King William II, who died in a hunting accident.  Despite his friendship with Henry I and his belief that William II was a poor leader, Claire's father is a man who believed strongly in doing what was right.  He was a man gifted in dreams and story-telling.  He supported Claire in her youthful dreams and artistic skills,  something highly unusual for the times.  Claire is deeply saddened by his death and in the throes of grief hacks her hair off.  This is the basic weakness of the story and makes it difficult for the reader to feel the pangs of true love.  Does one forget a loved relative so quickly and can love be lasting that happens so rapidly? I found it hard to suspend my doubt to buy into the sincerity of love.	2001-03-28
US	50123972	R1SAG1SHH5RD2D	0345436911	441036137	The Dress Lodger (Ballantine Reader's Circle)	Books	2	13	18	N	N	Dark and Dingy	Sheri Holman has crafted a wonderful poetic book for the truly pessimistic in The Dress Lodger. Gustine the 15 year old heroine of our tale lives in England in the 19th century during a cholera outbreak.  She works as a potter's assistant during the day lifting 60 pound slabs of clay, at night she wears an elegant blue dress and sells herself to anyone handy.  Always watching her is &quot;The Eye&quot; a ghoulish old woman whose duty is to see that Gustine doesn't make off with her earnings or the dress. Gustine is willing to sacrifice herself for a life for her baby. She hopes that Dr. Henry Chiver, a doctor she met while doing her rounds will be able to save her child.<br />Ms Holman is skilled with words and in parts of the tale you can feel and see the dreary English tenements.  She has Charles Dickens like characters which are varied and interesting. Holman has an annoying (or at least I find it so) tendency for the modern narrator to but in and overtake the telling of the story.  It makes it choppy and detracts from the story. It is not a device that is interesting or entertaining.<br />The story is so overwhelmingly pessimistic, that I forced myself to finish the book. I couldn't quite get past Gustine's age. For readers who want to find something redeeming and positive in a book, avoid it.  For those who can withstand such a negative assault in lieu of poetic story-telling and fantastic imagery and characterization I can wholly recommend this book.	2001-03-06
US	50123972	R25SGZF29J6ZT5	0312953607	463879021	The Apothecary Rose: An Owen Archer Mystery (Owen Archer Mysteries)	Books	4	9	10	N	N	First of a Series	The correct way to read a series of books is to start with the first as is the case of Apothecary Rose being the first of a series by Candace Robb.  I, unfortunately do not always follow the proscribed technique and in the case of Apothecary rose it was the forth I have read.<br />I was of course delighted to read the details of Owen Archers and Lucie Wiltons romance.  Owen is sent to York by the Archbishop to investigate the death of the archbishop's ward who is a bit of a wayward soul and could easily do something which would lead to his murder.  While in York Owen apprentices himself to Lucie Wilton an apothecary whose husband is dying.  Owen soon learns that Lucy has some links to the death of the pilgrims, because he is beginning to care for her he hopes she is innocent.<br />Ms Robb does an excellent job of developing her characters.  She takes care to describe life in a medieval city to make the setting interesting and add to the historical knowledge of the reader.  This is an intriguing series which I would strongly recommend to fans of the medieval mystery genre.	2001-02-25
US	50123972	R2O0RXGC6IVUYU	0316284955	613460974	White Oleander (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	5	5	7	N	N	uneasy story about childhood today	While their stories may begin and end differently White Oleander by Janet Fitch is the story of many American children. Too many children spend their childhood's in foster care, like Astrid Magnussen.  Astrid is placed in the foster care system when her mother Ingrid murders her boyfriend by poisoning him with oleander.  Astrid suffers through one bad placement after another while her mother attempts to bully and direct her life from prison.  Throughout the book Astrid maintains an inner strength and a degree of niceness that is surprising given her circumstances.<br />This is an uneasy story about childhood today. Janet Fitch presents a multi- layered tale of a troubled and difficult mother daughter relationship. Ingrid admits to her that she feels that Astrid was like a spider weaving her webs around her and suffocating her.  Astrid views a Kandinsky in the art museum and sees a picture of grief and abandonment.<br />While this book provides insight and complex relationships, it is a quick riveting read.  The reader is quickly drawn into Astrid's story.  It is easy to root for her and hope she finds her way through her difficult childhood.	2001-02-24
US	50123972	R3E6R75UKNKFIJ	0515119784	417080124	Range of Motion	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Devotion	Lainey Berman's husband Jay is in a coma due to a chunk of ice falling from a building onto him.  Lainey is raising two young daughters and trying to help them understand the situation while her friend and neighbor Alice helps her by babysitting.<br />Berg in the book Range of Motion deftly examines  the range of love and devotion necessary to ensure success of a marriage.  Her language is beautiful and poetic.  Berg endows her characters with strength and depth rare in fiction today.  We feel for Lainey as she tries to cope with the difficulties of her situation.  You root for Lainey's positive outlook and her denial that her husband Jay will die or continue in a coma.<br />This is a very well written book and stirring story.  It may not go over with people who are opposed to somewhat sentimental fiction.	2001-02-18
US	50123972	R1PVN1O1DPQSD9	0440236371	525635755	The Beauty (Bride Quest, Book 4)	Books	4	2	5	N	Y	Guilty Pleasures	One of my guilty pleasures is reading the mind candy of medieval romances.  Of the romantic genre it is often difficult to find medieval books.  When I find one I buy it and read it.  Never mind that it is the fifth book of a series as is The Beauty by Claire Delacroix.<br />Angus Mac Gillivray mistakenly abducts Jacqueline de Crevy who is en route to the convent to become a novice.  This has many of the elements that I look for when I read a novel of this genre:  there is the necessary tension between the hero and heroine,  the heroine is not completely ineffectual and lacking in intellect, the love scenes are sufficiently heated, but do not over do it and the side characters add a certain dimension and entertainment.  While I appreciate a book which goes into a little more historic background and detail and which one is called to suspend belief for given periods - it is a romance and candy after all, so sometimes I just sit back and enjoy.<br />For those who appreciate this genre as I do I would recommend this book.  I intend to read others of this series	2001-02-17
US	50123972	R75B23SEG9AY2	0380797399	49390421	Faded Coat of Blue (Abel Jones Mysteries)	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Hurrah for Captain Abel Jones	Owen Parry in Faded Coat of Blue introduces the reader to Captain Abel Jones a recent immigrant from Wales who serves his new country during the civil war as a way of to express his  gratitude.  Although injured he continues to work as a clerk until General McClellan asks him to investigate the murder of a prominent young abolitionist.<br />We find Washington D.C. during this time to be a seedy, dirty place where schemers are profiting from the war.  At this time there are already dangerous areas of the city which the solid citizen should avoid to remain healthy, wealthy and alive.<br />Characters in this book are interesting and well defined.  Jones is a man who believes strongly in honor.  He befriends  Dr. Mick Tyrone, another man of integrity and meets up again with an old comrade from India Jimmy Molloy, a roguish sort who will  delight the reader<br />This is an entertaining read and a good historical mystery for those who are fond of the genre.	2001-02-17
US	50123972	RHR3QQ8XU678S	0425178102	857420607	Big Trouble	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Entertaining	This is the most entertaining books I have read for a good long time.  I read books primarily for entertainment and have been in a stretch where I have been reading serious fiction.  Whew! What a relief to read Big Trouble, a book that is never pretentious enough to make a claim as big fiction.  The plot is not necessarily believable, but is off and running in a hurry.  Puggy hitches his way down to Florida and becomes connected with the Herk family (the name is not an accident) Arthur Herk is indeed a big jerk, with some serious problems, the largest of which is that he appears to be on someone's hit list. The book quickly moves from what hilarious escapade to another.<br />If you are ready for a fun light read, this is your book.  If you indeed expect to be edified and educated while reading, I advise you to skip it.  You most likely will be outraged.	2001-02-11
US	50123972	R244DOC6DZAPO3	0679744398	270121541	All the Pretty Horses (The Border Trilogy, Book 1)	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Saddle up!	Get on your horse and get ready to take a ride south of the border with John Grady Cole, 16 and his buddy Lacy Rawlins, 17.  Along the way the unfortunate youngster Jimmy Blevins tails after them and John Grady against his better begins to look after him.  As is likely to happen with young men on adventures, Cole and Rawlins do not put a lot of forethought into all of their actions.  While Rawlins feels foreboding in the pit of his stomach he does nothing to stop the actions which might lead them deeper into trouble.  They ride recklessly into Mexico without understanding the country or the culture.<br />Cormac McCarthy has written a terrific coming of age tale in All the Pretty Horses.  This book needs to be considered in its totality - the wonderful story, the beautifully written descriptions, and the style. Combined together it is an excellent book.  McCarthy has a habit of taking of with descriptions story and dialogue, before the reader has a chance to get her balance.  It is worth rereading a few paragraphs or pages here and there.<br />This is the kind of book that were I an English teacher I would give as assigned reading.  I think it will hold up over time to be a much read coming of age story, compared with many of the greats.	2001-02-10
US	50123972	R11BLI76CB3PO9	0316780375	480327121	The Weight of Water	Books	4	0	0	N	N	SAD	I guess the title The Weight of Water clearly implies the conclusion and the weight of the tale (or tales), but I feel a little shell-shocked from having just finished this novel by Anita Shreve.  She is clearly a gifted writer and knows how to spin a story.  This book combines two stories of families forced into tight confinement.  Jean, her husband, Thomas who is a poet whose best work is well in the past, her daughter Billie, Thomas' brother Rich and his girlfriend Adaline are sailing to Smuttynose Island off the coast of Maine so Jean can take pictures for a journal story about a century old murder of two women who lived on this island.<br />Jean discovers an eyewitness account by Maren the survivor of these murders.  She lived on Smuttynose with her husband, her brother and his wife and her sister.  Maren's story is interwoven with the modern story of Jean.  Both accounts deal with misunderstandings between families, and past tragedies within families.<br />I was unready for the ending of both stories and it changes somewhat how I feel about the book and who I would recommend it to.	2001-02-10
US	50123972	R14OPNPUESS35N	0684855631	430524886	The Empty Chair	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Sit Down and Enjoy!	Jeffery Deaver does it again with Lincoln Rhyme and Amelia Sachs in his recent novel the Empty Chair. Rhyme travels to North Carolina for an experimental surgery which may provide him with more mobility.  When he arrives local police ask him for assistance in finding the Insect Boy, Garrett Hanlon who has kidnapped two local young women and police feel may kill them.<br />Garrett turns out to be an interesting criminal. A teenager whose family was killed in a car accident, Garrett turns to insects for solace.  He observes insects to learn lifes important lessons.  Sachs finds him a strangely sympathetic criminal and sets out to help him.<br />The Empty Chair does not contain the gore and grisly detail that the previous Lincoln Rhyme novels contained.  But it does have the wonderful excitement of a chase, that should not be missed.  It also adds layers upon the Rhyme and Sachs characters and I look forward to their further development in the future .	2001-01-28
US	50123972	R2F1R4DIUJO4JP	0312951426	621198908	The Ice House: A Novel	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A Clever Mystery	The Ice House by Minette Walters tells the story of three women, Phoebe, Anne and Diana who live together in a mansion called Streech Grange.  Their gardener Fred discovers a body in the ice house on the grounds.  The police try to unravel the mystery and determine who the body is and who murdered him.  There are numerous twist and turns and the reader becomes involved with the daily lives of the characters in the novel. This is a mystery which keeps you guessing until the end.<br />I would recommend this to a traditional mystery fan.	2001-01-25
US	50123972	R1HUVY1ID52FW5	0688177867	127493012	The Book Borrower: A Novel	Books	5	5	10	N	Y	The nature of friendship	Deborah Laidlaw meets Toby Ruben while at a playground with her children and lends Ruben a favorite book of her husbands the Trolley Girl.  Thus begins a friendship which will last for years. Interwoven in the story are excerpts from the Trolley Girl a story of two sisters in the 1920's, one of whom was an anarchist involved in a trolley strike.<br />Deborah and Toby become not only friends but colleagues.  Teachers who first teach child care workers high school equivalency and then work as adjunct instructors in an English department of a college.  There teaching philosophies vary and therein lies much of their conflict.  Deborah believes in kindness and giving people what they seem to want at the moment and Toby is idealistic and truly &quot;wants to teach.&quot;  The book leads you gently to its lesson in life between the two friends.<br />Not a terribly heavy book, but it was an enjoyable read.  It was interesting to me because the friendship they first had seem so similar to friendships I had in the 70's. Also as a person who has worked among teachers for many years their professional rivalry, seemed true to form.  The taste of a historical novel added by the Trolley girl made the book all the more interesting.	2001-01-25
US	50123972	R134H5CVVE0CLN	0440225108	7077895	The Plague Tales	Books	4	3	4	N	Y	two gripping stories	I immensely enjoyed the two gripping stories told in Ann Benson's The Plague Tales. I am a medieval buff, so naturally found the story of Alejandro Canches the Jewish doctor from Spain interesting.  Alejandro has a great desire to be able to cure all patients.  When he is unable to cure a Christian patient of his, he unwisely exhumes the body to discover what really caused the death.  He is caught and thrown in prison.  His father arranges his release and from there we follow his adventures which are interwoven with the other plague tale of Janie Crowe.  Janie is a surgeon who is undergoing retraining to be a forensic archeologist.  She lives in a slightly futuristic world which seems much different than the one we would expect in 2005.  Benson has rewritten history to include a world decimated by a virulent disease which wiped out millions.<br />As some readers have noted the story is flawed in ways. A setting to be a little more in the distant future would be more believable.  It stretches credulity to have professional people who have lived through an era of disease, be so reckless with unknown and known bacteria.  In additions both stories endings are quickly patched to gather and leave the reader hanging.<br />I would recommend this book to those who like science fiction or medieval settings and can get past a certain amount of the unbelievable happening.	2001-01-21
US	50123972	R3F8GG8D2EF35G	0440234743	934400771	The Testament	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Integrity	I have a habit of buying Grisham novels as soon as they come out in paper back.  I let this one age a few years because I had reached the saturation point of reading Grisham.  This one was all the more pleasant to read after an extended dry spell.<br />Testament tells the story of the disposal of Troy Phelan's billions.  His children have been circling like sharks waiting for the blessed day when Troy expires,which he manages to orchestrate with dramatic flair.  Troy laughs from his grave watching lawyers predictably labor to carve themselves bigger pieces of the Phelan pie.  Much to the surprise of children and lawyers Troy leaves his entire estate to unknown illegitimate daughter Rachel Lane, who works as a missionary to native tribes in the Pantanal district of Brazil.<br />Recently rehabbed Lawyer Nate O'Riley is sent to locate Rachel and read her the will.  This trip brings a metamorphic experience to the  lawyer.  Nate finds Rachel to be a person of such simple integrity with her belief in a higher being that he longs for the same.<br />While I do not rate this as high as some of Grisham others,  I found it to be an extremely enjoyable book.  I particularly enjoyed the story of Nate's journey to Brazil.	2001-01-19
US	50123972	RX1BYPCA59OM	0440224675	313045692	Hannibal	Books	3	2	2	N	N	enter the world of the truly creepy and ghoulish	The setting is seven years after Hannibal Lecter's famous escape, where he is living a very &quot;tasteful&quot; life in Florence, Italy.  He has changed his looks and at first it seems some of his habits.  Dr. Lecter has been abstaining from his cannibalistic tendencies of late.  (But the reader knows it won't last.) He will be driven by evil forces to once again resume his bad habits.<br />Clarice Starling is not doing well. She just has too much integrity for the good ole' boys club in Washington.  They of course see her only as a sex object.<br />This is a book where the forces of good and evil are somewhat confused and neither is the ultimate victor.  This seems to leave many readers with a certain dissatisfaction and Thomas Harris with the ability to write a sequel.<br />Do not read this book if you are alone on a dark and rainy night.  It is not a good sedative. If you are into the warped and ghoulish this is a book for you.  I enjoy Harris' style and for the most part enjoyed the book (not enough to avoid a certain sarcasm.)	2001-01-15
US	50123972	R1DILZPKCQQWB2	0385492081	82772270	Into Thin Air: A Personal Account of the Mt. Everest Disaster	Books	5	2	2	N	N	everest- following a dream or an obsession	Many of the reviewers have already used words which I would use in describing the story, riveting, compelling,intriguing,true life adventure....yada yada yada. Journalist and mountaineer Jon Krakauer was commissioned by Outside magazine to write a story about the commercially guided trips to Mt. Everest.  Krakauer provides insight into the mountaineers psyche and explains why he has always wanted to climb Everest.  The average person would like to follow their dreams to have that once in a lifetime opportunity.  Dreams quickly become obsessions.  The person who chooses Everest as their dream is poised on the precipice of obsession.  It is a taxing mistress, claiming money, family, breath and lives.<br />Krakauer describes the many paths which lead to the &quot;goddess&quot;.  He respectfully introduces the reader to the many individuals who visited Everest that May.  The reader grows to appreciate and care for many individuals some who sadly did not survive.<br />Krakauer's narrative leaves room for the readers own view,  which makes the book all the more compelling.  I am glad I read this book.  Mountain climbing is not something I would ever do or even consider, but I have learned a deep respect for those who choose this as their particular dream.	2001-01-12
US	50123972	RH5ZOPO4YG3JK	0767904435	940216857	If I Die in a Combat Zone: Box Me Up and Ship Me Home	Books	5	32	33	N	N	Courage	A thinking man in Vietnam was a dangerous thing.  Being a soldier in Vietnam was a dangerous thing.  Tim O'Brien was both and somehow he managed to live to survive it and tell his story. He ends up in Vietnam after unsuccessfully dealing with his conflict between doing the right thing and being a courageous man.  He tells of his decision not to follow his well planned escape route and stay with his country and its proposal to send him to Viet Nam.  O'Brien describes Vietnam as a place with nameless soldiers and Buddys, faceless enemies and endless minefields.<br />This is an excellent text for learning about the experience of the Vietnam war, the choices that young man were faced with at that time and basic dilemmas in making moral decisions.  It is a well written book which makes for a quick, satisfying read.	2001-01-10
US	50123972	RWQ2LYMU7QSCM	0060932759	694565872	Daughter of Fortune	Books	4	3	3	N	N	a good historical novel	I have very mixed feelings regarding Isabel Allende's Daughter of Fortune.  It took me a very long time to get into the novel, although I found the characters interesting and the writing beautiful. Maybe it was because the hook of a woman following her lover is not an intriguing one for me.  While I found young Eliza Sommers to be an interesting character, I had no patience with her when she fell in love.<br />The second half of the story was very interesting to me&gt; I liked the historical detail about China, life at sea and especially California during the gold rush.  I am very fond of historical novels and thought this was well done.<br />I didn't find this to be a novel of much depth or insight, which isn't a real concern for me, because I read more for entertainment than enlightenment. It was a good historical novel.	2001-01-07
US	50123972	R3J5LJYM4B31GF	0553581481	969826215	Eleven Days (Carl Houseman)	Books	4	9	10	N	N	America's Heartland	Something creepy is happening in America's heartland.  911 operators in Maitland, Iowa receive a call about a mass murder at an outlying farmhouse.  when arriving there Deputy Sheriff Carl Houseman finds a grisly murder scene. One day later they uncover a mass murder at another farm.  Both of these scenes have Satanic overtones.  Definitely something you wouldn't expect to find in the heart of America.<br />Donald Harstad in his novel Eleven Days creates  an every man character with Carl Houseman, with his understated ways and tongue in cheek humor. The environment of the station house and the various people who populate the story are both interesting and ordinary.  Many of us know  a Sally who wants more from life and Hester who constantly has to prove herself to the guy's club.<br />The mystery itself is riveting and grisly.  It leads the reader along at a fast pace until the final conclusion.  For those who appreciate the genre it is an easy sell.  Others may feel the gory details are excessive.  Some readers may disprove of the \\"ordinary\\" characters and style of the author. To me this is part of the appeal of the book .  I first read Known Dead by the author and wanted to read other books by Mr. Harstad and am glad that I did.	2001-01-02
US	50123972	R327UO6XMFTHC1	0553581295	306714600	Darkness Peering	Books	3	0	5	N	N	Suspense?	Darkness Peering by Alice Blanchard is a worthy first effort.  It was all in all an enjoyable read. Nalen Storrow, police chief of Flowering Dogwood is called to investigate the murder of a teenage special needs girl.  Nalen is deeply disturbed by the murder and the trail to which the evidence is leading.  The murder remains unsolved and years later his daughter Rachel, now a member of the police force decides to try her hand at solving the case.<br />Rachel, as has been pointed out is not the sharpest knife in the drawer.  She continually makes inept decisions in pursuit of the case and her personal life choices are not necessarily wise either. I certainly would not want Rachel to try to save me if my life was in danger.  Her morals are somewhat questionable in the conclusion. Rachel was not a person who I could care about or like, which is  essential to identifying with a &quot;sleuth&quot; in a mystery. Readers will have to draw their own conclusion to this after reading the &quot;surprising&quot; ending.<br />Many readers appear to have loved this book and believe it is the best in years. To me the mystery itself was just not that difficult to solve and all in all was not very satisfying. I will not read another Rachel Storrow book if Blanchard continues this as a series.	2000-12-29
US	50123972	R3KRY1TUEPBTB	0061042935	537116893	Everywhere That Mary Went	Books	4	96	100	N	N	Mary's no lamb	Lisa Scottoline in her debut Everywhere That Mary Went introduces feisty  Mary DiNunzio of South Philadelphia.  Mary is a recently widowed, soon to be made partner of a prestigious law firm.  Mary is also being stalked.  She is receiving prank phone calls, notes and being followed by a car.  She is getting spooked and beginning to wonder if the stalker could have been the hit and run driver who killed her husband.<br />She has two good friends who are very interesting characters, Brent, her secretary and Judy, fellow lawyer.  She also has a new love interest who she is afraid may be the stalker.<br />Overall the book is a well planned and paced mystery, with characters who are interesting and entertaining.  Book is not deeply intellectual, but that is not why one would read a book such as this.  It has good entertainment value.	2000-12-23
US	50123972	R2LH1YQ0U7OKRZ	0060930535	951868170	The Poisonwood Bible (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	a superbly written book	The Poisonwood Bible the superbly written book by Barbara Kingsolver is one of the best books I have read in years.  Nathan Price has dreamed of going to Africa as a missionary for years and willingly has his wife and four daughters accompany him despite the risks.  The book is told in five distinct voices, that of his wife and four daughters. The reader begins to know and care deeply about each child. Each is profoundly affected by Nathan and her own experience of Africa.  They are faced with dangers as venomous serpents, drought, and army ants.<br />Africa  for ever alters each family member and this dysfunctional family will be forever changed.  The lessons learned while coming of age in the midst of revolution are significantly different than those for middle class America.  Love and beauty for each of the surviving sisters has a different meaning.<br />This is a wonderful book crafted by an excellent author.  I expected it will be required reading for years to come.  It is not for everyone.  I have lent it out only to have it returned unread.  So considered your likes in reading material.  It is lengthy.  The second half of the book moves at a slower pace than the first.  There are those who may disapprove of even the faintest criticism of the religious.	2000-12-23
US	50123972	R2UQ644PEGQID7	0375708278	27895627	Isaac's Storm: A Man, a Time, and the Deadliest Hurricane in History	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Isaac is a man poised on the eve of distruction	Erik Larson chronicles one of our nations most costly ( in terms of lives) disasters of all time in his book Isaac's Storm. The Storm took place in Galveston Texas in 1900.  This was a time when industry and technology was viewed as all powerful.  The &quot;modern man&quot; in his arrogance believed that he had full control over nature.  It was a time of jingoism and imperialism.  Americans viewed much of the rest of the western hemisphere as primitive and aboriginal. This was a time of supreme optimism.  Alarmist were looked on with askance.  Hurricane warnings were delivered with utmost caution for fear of inciting the general public needlessly.<br />Isaac Cline a US weather bureau chief in Galveston was a man of his time. Isaac believes in science and self-worth. He views himself as a renaissance man, who understands the forces of nature. To Isaac, weather is an interesting phenomenon to be studied dispassionately and scientifically.  It will not touch him, outside of his research and vocation.  Isaac is a man poised on the eve of destruction. Larson accurately sets the stage for the disaster.  The story of the hurricane itself is riveting and poignant.<br />I would strongly recommend this book for those interested in US history and in stories of human courage.  It is also an excellent read for those who read mostly fiction.	2000-12-22
US	50123972	RM3Y9XQ5CEOO5	0312195516	226874686	The Red Tent	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Tale of love and betrayal	The Red Tent by Anita Diamant is a compelling tale with a biblical setting.  The heroine Dinah is a little mention character in the Bible.  Dinah is Jacob's daughter and Joseph's sister.  In Diamant's version she is greatly valued as the only daughter of Jacob's four wives who are all sisters.  Dinah shares the red tent with her mothers and is cocooned in their loving protection.  They each give her valuable lessons and gifts of life as they see it. As it turns out she will have need all of their gifts to pursue her life as a woman of these times and the unexpected tragedies which overtake her.<br />An excellent read with much depth and meaning.  Those that take the Bible completely literally may not appreciate it.	2000-12-20
US	50123972	R321EABSKXSD	0312952813	152178043	The Black Ice (Harry Bosch)	Books	5	55	59	N	Y	Bosch at his best	Michael Connelly consistently delivers exciting hard-boiled police procedurals with Harry Bosch in control. In Black Ice Bosch is cut out of an investigation of an apparent suicide of narcotics officer Calexico Moore by the bigwigs of the department.  They want to do what is pc and Bosch is definitely not that. At the same time Bosch's supervisor Pound feels compelled to increase the percentages of his homicides solved so Bosch is elected to solve some cases of an  out on stress leave detective, Porter.  Harry realizes that Porter's case, his own and Moore's &quot;suicide&quot; are all tied together.  As usual Bosch cuts corners and goes out on his own to make the pieces fit.<br />An excellent read for any fan of mystery and suspense. Connelly is always exciting and hard to put down.  I am ready for a new one.  For anyone unfamiliar with Connelly and Harry Bosch, read them in order and not spread out over years as I have done.	2000-12-20
US	50123972	R3T2CV9ROT3WSE	0061098353	786975429	Twice Dying	Books	5	1	1	N	N	life on the edge	In Twice Dying, the debut thriller by  Neil McMahon we are introduced to Emergency room physician Carroll Monks.  Dr. Monks is a divorced man who lives with three cats, drinks a good deal of vodka and dabbles in detective work as a hobby. His ex-lover psychologist Allison Chapley leaves him a present in his car as a method of asking for help.  Allison is given to kinky sex and likes to live life on the edge.  She is currently working in a rehab facility which houses the criminally insane.  Allison believes she has stumbled onto a plot to release these dangerous criminals prematurely. She seeks Monks assistance in uncovering the facts. Neither of them realize the true risks involved.<br />This novel moves at a fast pace and keeps the reader guessing.  It remains a mystery until the end.	2000-12-16
US	50123972	R2BFU2JCCO74QY	0425143899	404986564	The Servant's Tale (A Dame Frevisse Mystery)	Books	4	12	12	N	Y	A bleak cold winter	We visit the fifteenth century priory of St. Fridewides in a bleak cold winter in Margaret Frazer's book the Servant's Tale.  all the sisters have caught the rheum (or flu) and a group of players(actors)bring in a badly injured man.  His wife, Meg is a servant to the priory and badly wants a better life for herself and her children.  This seems unlikely to happen with a maimed husband who was somewhat shiftless in the first place and given to drink.<br />Before long we have a murder and the players are the chief suspects. Our medieval sleuth Sister Frevisse, wants to disprove this, because of her beginning friendship with this group of people.<br />I was not as fond of this book as I was with the others in the Sister Frevisse series.  Frazer does her usual superb research and brings the fifteenth century to life.  Her characters are interesting and you want to find out more about them.  This novel is very bleak and sad. I knew who was the villain immediately and hoped I was somehow wrong.	2000-12-12
US	50123972	R2O4CEMDZEF96M	042514321X	59796	The Novice's Tale (A Dame Frevisse Mystery)	Books	5	5	6	N	Y	Gentle Thomasine	Margaret Frazer delivers another excellent medieval mystery with her book the Novice's Tale.  The tale begins with Thomasine poised to become a nun in a few short weeks.  Thomasine is a very gentle novice who has always wanted to become a nun.  she has a saintly disposition and is afraid of men.  Her hopes may be dashed by her very eccentric aunt Lady Ermentrude.  Everyone at St. Frideswides dreads the arrival of her aunt who is very taxing person to be around.<br />She appears unannounced, then quickly disappears, only to return the next day in a state of wild inebriation.  In her drunken state Lady Ermentrude is determined to take the gentle Thomasine from the Abbey.  Just as quickly as all this happens she is dead.  Could Thomasine have murdered her or is it someone else whose life she has disrupted.<br />Sister Frevisse is determined to find out who caused her death.  she does not want Thomasine to be falsely accused.  She diligently questions the people in the abbey to determine who could be the one to gain from Lady Ermentrude's death.<br />This novel like the others in the series will appeal to mystery and medieval addicts alike	2000-12-10
US	50123972	R3HPOKQ5630BF	0671036564	251404509	Run For Your Life	Books	3	1	4	N	N	Romance?-yes, Suspense?-maybe	The theme of Run for Your Life by Andrea Kane sounded so intriguing that I bought this book.  Seeing a sister in a yellow hospital gown in a state of distress only to have her disappear. Your father insists she is still in Florence painting rather than New York.  All this is quickly explained and is not as intriguing as it sounds.<br />Reunited lovers with very little tension between them doesn't sizzle for me.<br />The book didn't work as a suspense or a romance for me, but I understand that others who appreciate the gothic romance formula more than I, would enjoy the reading.	2000-12-10
US	50123972	R2Y8NWECF5ISRX	0553575287	506642463	Graveyard Dust (Benjamin January, Book 3)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	dangerous fog shrouded place	Graveyard Dust by Barbara Hambly is the third in a series about Benjamin January a freeman of 19th century New Orleans who is both a physician and a musician.  At the start of the book we find that January's sister Olympe, a voodooienne has been accused of murder of Isaak Jumon.  January will have to unravel the mystery of Isaak's death to free his sister.<br />Hambly's New Orleans is a dangerous fog shrouded place.  It is fever season again and  various voodoo factions are involved in the plot. Some are leaving graveyard dust at January's doorway. Tennessee trappers are trying to murder him as he desperately seeks clues to exonerate his sister.<br />This book does not move as quickly as others in this series. It sometimes bogs down at various twists and turns.  It does however add depth and interest in the characters involved. The authors insights and research about the history of New Orleans brings the time and place to life.	2000-12-03
US	50123972	R27AUI2USFG7FJ	0385720106	305678170	A Map of the World: A Novel (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	3	5	5	N	N	Compelling story - less than likable main characters.	A Map of the world by Jane Hamilton is a disturbing and compelling book about child protective services misused by an individuals twisted needs. Hamilton is an author gifted in the use of prose.  Her descriptions are beautiful and well worded.  However her main characters Alice and Howard are not entirely likable people. This makes it hard to be totally in sympathy with their situation. There were several points in the story in which I would normally be quite moved, but felt little or nothing because of my distance from the characters.<br />While the story was quite plausible and I appreciated the story line.  There were parts of the story which did not ring true to life at all.  Could any one be as forgiving as Theresa?  Would anyone be so stupid as to talk to the police the way Alice did?<br />The story is told in both Alice and Howard's voice.  Which when you get right down to it do not sound that different.  Alice is a little more flighty and Howard more disengaged. They both have trouble focusing and this just makes the book difficult to read. Their thought processes are atypical of anyone I know.  Who thinks this way?  Alice states when talking about her lawyer &quot;I realize now that I always sense that quality in people about whom I feel rapturous.&quot;<br />All in all I think this is a worthwhile book and an important story.  I do wish it was told in a way that I felt some sympathy with the people involved.	2000-11-26
US	50123972	R14IW5WNBA5ZUM	0385234120	37165620	The Chinese Chef	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Martin Yan Can Cook	We became hooked on the Martin Yan show on Public Television.  His corny jokes made us laugh, but clearly as far as cooking went Matin Yan knew what he was doing.  We had to have the book.  I would not be without this book today. It is truly one of our most valuable cookbooks and we have a lot.<br />It is a great treat for me to be able to whip up a plate of potstickers as good as any I have tasted in a restaurant.  I have Martin Yan and this book to thank for that and he made it surprisingly easy.<br />There are numerous delicious recipes in this book using a variety of techniques. We love the Sweet and sour pork, the Kung-pao shrimp, the hot and sour soup, the szechuan cucumber salad and the sizzling black bean chicken.<br />Recipes are well written and easy to follow, with techniques clear so even those unfamiliar with them can complete the recipe. This is the book really taught us about Chinese cooking. It is divided into five sections reflecting various regions and styles of cooking, Canton, Szechuan &amp; Hunan, Peking, shanghai, and Nouvelle Chinese.<br />If you are able to find one of these books buy it.  It is a worthwhile investment.  Other Yan books are excellent as well, but this one has some of the basic recipes that you need in your repertoire.	2000-11-25
US	50123972	RSPFFW0TA9839	0688028470	83427194	Chef Paul Prudhomme's Louisiana Kitchen	Books	5	14	14	N	N	recipes - not for the timid or diet conscious	Years ago watching Phil Dohahue, my husband and I viewed Paul Prudhomme promoting his book the Louisianna Kitchen.  we were intrigued and had to have his book. Thus began our journey.  We loved the illustrations and poured over them trying to decide which recipes we would do. We tried many and they have since become standards in our household.<br />I remember our first attempt at Crawfish enchiladas con Queso.  we went over to a bait shop on the sacramento river to get the real thing.  After the ordeal of immersing them in boiling water and the tedium of peeling them.  we decided bay shrimp may make a good substitute and have used them ever since.  It is a wonderful meal that starts me drooling just thinking about it.<br />Other tasty treats are Chicken big mamou (watch out for the scovil units), Cajun shepherd's pie, paneed veal and fettucini, cajun meatloaf and shrimp creole.<br />Over the years we have learned to cut down on the butter, without hurting the recipe and adjust heat to our taste.  These recipes are not for the timid or diet conscious - but they are Deeeelicious!!	2000-11-24
US	50123972	R1QK2ZUHJ43WBS	0425148998	888474177	The Boy's Tale (Sister Frevisse Medieval Mysteries)	Books	5	13	15	N	N	Royal Intrigue comes to St. Frideswide's	Margaret Frazer visits St. Frideswide's at the time the prioress is near death in her book the Boy's Tale.  The Boys are Henry VI half brothers Jasper and Edmund.  They fled for their lives and are trying to make it to a safe place in wales.  They were over taken and must claim sanctuary at the nunnery.<br />Sister Frevisse is able to figure out who they are and helps to guard them from danger.  This is not an easy task because the boys are quite mischievous and the villain is persistent.<br />I am very fond of this genre and likely to overlook any glaring faults. It is really for pure enjoyment that I read these and Frazer has yet to let me down.	2000-11-24
US	50123972	R58L7XEACLBJ5	044023512X	186149727	City of Light	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Light and Darkness in the Progressive Era	Lauren Belfer immerses the reader in the turn of the century city of Buffalo. It is an exciting time where change and industrialization is worshiped.  It is a time for women as well as men.  Their position in society is changing.  they are becoming increasingly educated and able to impact through social change.  It is a time to come to America and walk the streets of gold.  Immigrants from eastern Europe flock to this country and cause upheavals of their own.  It is the time for the worker.  Industries are targeted by labor unions and strikes are common.<br />In Buffalo it is a great time to make a buck. The power plant at nearby Niagara Falls is being built.  Opportunities abound for new business and industry. Buffalo displays all the strife that accompanied the social change of the Progressive era.  Lauren Belfer has done a tremendous amount of research about the time and place. She is able to bring this society to life in her book and takes a close look at the movers and shakers of the time.  Caught in the middle of it all and desperately trying to make her way and not upset the apple cart is the narrator and heroine, headmistress Louisa Barrett.<br />Louisa Barrett wants to do the right thing and feels strongly that she is helping to shape a generation of young women into the profound thinkers of the future.  In reality Louisa is frozen with fear of the effect of action. In many ways she is a puppet on a string.<br />The story is part mystery, part romance, part psychological study and part historical time piece.  In it written with tons of detail about the time and place.  If the reader appreciates this most likely this is a book for you.  If other elements are more appealing the book may be found wanting.	2000-11-22
US	50123972	R90R51CTT19HO	0425164071	287205164	The Maiden's Tale (Sister Frevisse Medieval Mysteries)	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Medieval Intrigue	In the Maiden's Tale by Margaret Frazer, sister Frevisse journeys to London to meet her new prioress.  While there Frevisse visits her cousin Alice who wants to involveher political intrigue of the time by use Frevisse as a secret messenger between The Duke of Orleans and King Henry the VI.<br />As in any tale of intrigue much is at stake, lives, love and peace between England and France.  Frazer introduces us to Jane, the maiden of her book.  A young woman who chose not to become a nun despite her &quot;blemish&quot; as the nuns called it.  Jane is a stubborn and virtuous young woman who believes that she can find a life for herself outside the nunnery and works against odds to achieve this.<br />Frazer does an excellent job in presenting a tale of medieval mystery which is true to the period. This book  is worth reading for the story of Jane and her unusual courage.	2000-11-18
US	50123972	R1W303Z9BDC02J	0451195590	458535105	The Spider's Web	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Temayne weaves a tale of mystery	Peter Tremayne in his book The Spider's Web continues his Sister Fidelma series set in seventh century Ireland.  This series contains a great many details and insight into life at that time. Tremayne accurately describes life in a village, the belief system held  and many of the prejudices of these villagers.<br />Fidelma is an astute sleuth and is relentless in her pursuit of the truth. She comes to life in this series.  Tremayne describes her so well that you know her reactions to many situations.<br />While his books are bound by a formula it is one that I love and can read again and again. If you are a fan of medieval history, you will love this book.	2000-11-18
US	50123972	RRLJAJ4FRSTTR	0553581767	328989327	Manhattan Is My Beat (Rune)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Dharma Meets Lincoln Rhyme	Manhattan is My Beat is an early work by Bone Collector author Jeffery Deaver.  Rune the heroine is a quirky Dharma like character from Ohio who wanders New York seeking adventures and fighting her fairy tale &quot;dragons.&quot; Rune The Little Girl Lost joust the windmills of New York rather than facing the realities of her fathers death.  She is at times a space cadet, a goody-two shoes, and a person who thoughtlessly faces danger.<br />Runes life is a kind of perils of Pauline, she works in a video story, she squats in a building being renovated and she fabricates stories about the life she leads.  All of this results in both cops and bad guys chasing her.  Rune with her blinders cannot differentiate the good guys from bad.<br />I debated over three or four stars, but decided to be kind.  While it is somewhat fluffy, hey I read it in one sitting, found it entertaining and will most likely read another &quot;Rune&quot; book.<br />This book may not be satisfying to the hard-core Bone Collector readers.	2000-11-14
US	50123972	R39ZULIK0923C9	0425176673	305148450	The Reeve's Tale (Sister Frevisse)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Medieval Whodunit	Margaret Frazer has done it again with her mystery the Reeve's Tale.  Ms Frazer continues to provide us with an interesting slice of life in a medieval setting.  This time we journey from the cloister to the village to take a look at the judicial system .<br />Sister Frevisse the sharp witted and sharp tongued sleuth participates in the search for a murderer with in the village after the steward of the nunnery is placed under house arrest.<br />While Frevisse is fighting crime her saintly friend Sister Thomasine is battling an outbreak of the Measles.<br />Entertaining throughout for those fond of the Medieval Mystery genre	2000-11-14
US	50123972	R3HU4X1A4TWC3G	0425175405	636904914	Black Notice (Kay Scarpetta)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	an intriguing start, but...	Black Notice by Patricia Cornwell has an intriguing start, with Kay Scarpetta trying to come to grips with her grief a year after Benton's death.  As she comes out of her fog Kay realizes that she and those she holds dear, Marino and her niece Lucy are contending with some serious problems.  That story is interesting and entertaining, but then that plot line is suddenly ended in a rather startling and bizarre fashion.<br />We are transported to Edgar Allen Poe land and the Murders of Rue Morgue. The books ends with more loose ends than tied ones and its no mystery in the traditional sense, because the killer appeared very late in the game. The killer is pesented it such a way that you feel sorry for this pathetic creature rather than being repulsed by his heinous crimes.<br />I personally want to know why all the hairs appeared to be cut and none came out with their follicles intact.  And really how could Kay be so stupid to open the door?<br />Having said that, it was an entertaining read and I intend to read Cornwell's books again.  I have enjoyed many in the past.	2000-11-13
US	50123972	R1C0IB6ZX4X3SL	0879306130	635063449	Rollin' and Tumblin' : The Postwar Blues Guitarists	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Guitar heroes - a different perspective	Rollin' and Tumblin' a look at the postwar blues guitarists edited by Jas Obrecht takes a personal look at the many men who pioneered electric blues and had a profound effect on rock and roll and pop music as we know it today.<br />Many of these gentlemen are largely unsung guitar heroes today.  The book provides a wonderful look at their varied and interesting lives and the humanity that they displayed in the past and some continue to display today.<br />The book provides a close look at the lives of many bluesmen, some of whom have learned the secrets of staying power and longevity and some of whom lived quick hard lives.  While reading the book you feel as if you are getting to know some of these people.  Some of them are arrogant and cantankerous and some appear to be genuine kind people.  whatever their personalities, there love for the music which they have dedicated their lives to comes through and makes me glad that I am able to listen to it and appreciate it.	2000-11-13
US	50123972	R27D7U13UMCL9G	0345417623	786105285	Timeline	Books	5	7	8	N	N	A midieval version of &quot;Beat the Clock&quot;	Michael Crichton in his book Timeline reminds us that reading is for fun and entertainment.  Many readers appear to be very serious about their preoccupation.<br />Timeline is a quick easy read combining two of my very favorite subjects time travel and the medieval life.  While Crichton does go into some scientific explanations about quantum physics it doesn't bog down the book or detract from the pace of the story.<br />Crichton presents an interesting cast of characters who could easily be exchanged with a variety of Hollywood actors and actresses.<br />These characters are involved in a form of medieval beat the clock as they race to find their way back to the present.  Even with their knowledge of the time and place they find the middle ages to be a dangerous threatening time.<br />When the adventure ends, one could easily imagine their continuing adventures in their travels through time.<br />If you enjoy reading about the middle ages and like action and adventure this is a book for you.  If you are a serious reader looking for meaning, character and plot development and enjoy dissecting a book it might be a good idea to skip it.	2000-11-10
US	50123972	R38BGD54LZP8OH	067102731X	705687442	Every Dead Thing: A Charlie Parker Thriller	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Serial potential	John Connolly in his novel Every Dead Thing shows great potential for developing Charlie &quot;Bird&quot; Parker into the type of detective used for a series of novels as Harry Bosch of Michael Connelly's books and Lincoln Rhyme of Jeffrey Deavers.<br />Parker is a man tormented by the murders of his wife and daughter , who seeks to atone for his guilt by finding Catherine Demeter. While he is not successful he believes it is time to find his families killer and journeys to the Big Easy.<br />As many readers noted the book is so full of characters it is virtually impossible to sort them out and at one point it seem the killer was going to be someone who I wasn't even sure how he had appeared.  The book was also as others noted just too gory. Factors I do not even care to mention make these murders impossible.<br />I do see so much potential in Connolly's writing and an interesting chief character, that I debated on giving three or four stars.<br />If he does write another book, I suggest he write one at a time instead of the two in one.	2000-11-10
US	50123972	R1KBUBDW1ODHBD	0671011375	466385534	Death du Jour (Temperance Brennan Novels)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Cult du Jour	Kathy Reichs in Death Du jour repeats her performance from Deja Dead.  Tempe Brennan is an interesting middle aged intelligent woman who helps to solve murders through her work as a forensic anthropologist.  Tempe is a tough minded women who is sensitive enough to hate the &quot;death&quot; part of her work.  Like many of us at this age she is undergoing mid-life crisis at multiple levels - love, relationships, work and self-esteem.<br />The storyline is about cults - something which touches us all in our headline world. We have all read the horror stories. We have met enough zealots to know their potential for destruction on the path to righteousness.<br />Book is fast paced and an easy read - which is my favorite kind. Although it is not the literary equal to another about forensic anthropologist - Anil's Ghost - this is no knock.  I prefer to read about 5 quick easy entertainings to one literary gem.	2000-10-31
US	50123972	R2DOE8UPJMIQ74	0380732149	398450731	On the Occasion of My Last Afternoon	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A Beautifully Written Book	A beautifully written book with a compelling story, which I found weakened by the narrators obsession with the evil father.  The feeling of justifiable hatred Emma Garnet had for her father obscured her feeling of love for her husband and children,  her feeling of grief and guilt for her mother's passing, the realities of war, her tiredness caring for the wounded during the war.<br />But maybe that is the point, perhaps we need to let go of our obsessive hatreds and get over it.  They do indeed prevent our living life to its fullest. They certainly did with Emma Garnet	2000-10-29
US	50123972	RZP9MT6GJPGLA	0671047485	629121134	Shallow Graves (John Pellam #1)	Books	4	16	17	N	N	Different Deaver	Shallow Graves by Jeffery Deaver is a different sort of mystery/thriller than his Bone Collector Lincoln Ryme series, with a different sort of villain(s) than that series. So if the reader is expecting a Bone Collector clone, take note.<br />It is, however an excellent book and John Pellam is a great hero with his dark secrets and nomadic life.  Pellam has good instincts and is tenacious in finding the murderer of his friend and partner.	2000-10-29
US	50123972	RXCLR9DYYOVT	0449223345	163116850	A Pirate Looks at Fifty	Books	3	0	2	N	N	Well It is essentially a man's book	Jimmy Buffett thinks a lot of himself and he is not afraid if we know it.  I bought the book because i am entertained by his music and have day dreams of traveling around the Caribbean.<br />Fly fishing is not my thing it's my husband's.  Nor am I interested in the fine points of flying.<br />As an early childhood educator, I was somewhat surprised that he would meet some strangers on an island and decide they were okay to babysit for him.  Not entirely smart for a well known american abroad but it's only my opinion.<br />Throughout I found it mildly entertaining in a peter pan sort of way.	2000-10-18
US	50123972	R2IICEW7WQGC16	0446607274	515249324	Angels Flight (Harry Bosch)	Books	5	1	3	N	N	A Shakespeare Tragedy of a police novel	Angel's Flight by Michael Connelly is an excellent, exciting read as are all his Harry Bosch books.  Bosch this time is more vulnerable, because of his declining marriage.<br />The story moves along at a fast pace and keeps you guessing as to who the perpetrator is. Plot involves many twists and turns and in the end turns into a Shakespearian Tragedy.	2000-10-15
US	50123972	R2XVIYBY1L9GCE	0804112525	895321014	Jazz Funeral	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Murder and music in the Big Easy	Julie Smith in Jazz Funeral presents a Homicide Detective, Skip Langdon who is big beautiful and brash.  She also presents a wide  array of intriguing suspects in the death of Jazz Festival promoter, Ham Brocoto.<br />The deceased himself turns out to be an interesting study for Skip as she uncovers his true personality, you may wonder why any one would want to kill him.<br />His sister, Melody has run away and is looking for love in all the wrong places.  She is a very sympathetic character and you find yourself hoping that she doesn't self destruct along the way.<br />This is a good mystery with lots of intricate plots and sub-plots.  I was guessing until the end.  I loved the atmosphere and the character and the story of their lives.	2000-10-14
US	50123972	R6LR5GED02KLV	0425159442	742627945	Prioress' Tale (Sister Frevisse Medieval Mysteries)	Books	4	15	16	N	N	A slice of medival live	Margaret Frazer in The Prioress' Tale creates an interesting slice of medieval of life at the 15th century priory of St. Frideswide.  The characters are ones you will want to meet again in other books.<br />Domina Alys is single minded, mean spirited and petty in her vision of an improved priory.  Those who do not join forces with her are her enemies, chief among them is protagonist, Sister Frevisse an intelligent and likable nun who is much worried about the downward direction the priory is taking. She rightly believes that nothing is as it seems to be.<br />The mystery itself almost seems secondary to the story of the characters and the priory.  Frazer slowly builds to the mystery. In fact, the murder does not occur until late in the book. There are other secrets to be revealed besides &quot;whodunit&quot;.<br />This is a good quick read and I am looking forward to reading other Margaret Frazer books in the Sister Frevisse series.	2000-10-14
US	50123972	R2AALDKPCNWXLC	0140291962	316534633	River of Darkness (John Madden Mysteries)	Books	4	0	0	N	Y	Shell shocked	Rennie Airth first novel River of Darkness is set in post WWI England.  A time and place which in many ways parallels post Viet Nam America.  A rapidly changing society that the veterans of war have to come to terms with, while battling their own personal ghosts of  war.<br />Airth does well in describing some of these changes and personal battles.<br />As other people have mentioned this book also bears striking resemblance to Charles Todd's Inspector Ian Rutledge books.  I fould Airth's John Madden to be less tormented and closer to salvation than Ian Rutledge.  I prefer Todd's books because they are less openly romantic than Airth's River of Darkness. Although  I understand how some might prefer River of Darkness for its romanticism in bleak circumstances<br />River of Darkness is a very interesting study of a psychotic killer although very Freudian in perspective.  This of course fits naturally with the time and place.<br />I would highly recommend this book to a reader of historical mysteries.	2000-10-01
US	50123972	R18W7EITG56T5Q	0375410538	924994086	Anil's Ghost	Books	5	3	5	N	Y	The Ultimate Mystery	As we embark on the journey to war torn Colombo in Sri Lanka we are anesthetized by Michael Ondaatje's poetic lyrical voice. We are led through Anil's journey to Colombo and her finding of her &quot;ghost&quot; Sailor.  Anil is a forensic anthropologist for a human rights group,  looking for the truth of government participation in the atrocities of Sri Lanka during the 1980's.<br />Reading the book in a sedated state we are never sure of the reality of life in this country.  Even Anil a returning native or prodigal daughter is always off balance.  Trust and truth are not necessary qualities for this time and place.  Good guys and bad guys are difficult to distinguish.<br />In the final anguish of the book we are still unsure of who Anil's ghost really is.<br />This book is a compelling read. It provides insight into any place disrupted by revolution and violence.	2000-10-01
US	50123972	RDI1Y6T00XJYM	0804119368	203007075	The Twisted Root (William Monk Novels)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Married Monk	The Twisted Root Anne Perry's first William Monk book after his marriage to Hester Latterly the nurse who worked in the battlefields of Crimea, explores new tensions between the leading characters.  While there are not the battles between them that there were in previous novels,  there still is plenty of tension.  somehow they are both more vulnerable and softer now that they are a matched set.<br />Book is loaded with the intersting characters as in previous novels.  Some you hope to see again as Cleo, and the police sergeant  Robb.<br />Perry's mystery is not as engaging as her characters and her settings.  Hospital scenes are fabulous, as are the courtroom scenes.  While her mystery may be easy to solve, I would read her Monk books for the character and historical insight she provides.	2000-09-27
US	50123972	R1AC5HOUQFA5VN	0446672351	454210807	Reservation Blues	Books	3	0	6	N	N	A well written book -	Reservation Blues is a lyrical and thought provoking book.A little too lyrical and thought provoking for me.  Quite frankly I want a book that is entertaining and accessible ( and a little mindless.)<br />I'd suggest this for book clubbers not the coach potato readaholic.<br />While Sherman Alexie is an excellent author I will not read another of his books even if it has a blues title and has Robert Johnson as a superfluous character.	2000-09-27
US	50123972	R2EKOC5JBIPXR	0312971923	779605463	Crossroad Blues (Nick Travers)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A Blues Mystery	What would happen if there were nine unknown original recordings of Robert Johnson's work. Would there be intrique, murder, back-stabbing and plans by glitzy glossy labels to market this work.  Well we know stuff would happen and probably some unsavory stuff to help someone make money.  This is Ace Atkins' premise.  His hero, Nick Travers follows the trail to the Delta to Greenwood where it all began or ended depending on your perspective.<br />Atkins includes all the elements of blues - the glitzy blues club,  The Real Thang in Jojo's, Elvis, a Susan Tedeschi type  in Virginia Dare who dares immerse herself in the Delta to develop the real blues feel.  Travers' trips to the Delta region does have the blues feel, that kind of eerie, spooky Crossroads mood.<br />All in all a good fast read. It's not perfect.  Mystery books aren't classic literature and blues ain't a Shakespeare sonnet.  Both good blues and a good mystery should be accessible and entertaining.  Crossroad Blues is.	2000-09-24
US	50123972	R1OW2RVK7LZASQ	1559343931	486472504	Foundations: Early Childhood Education in a Diverse Society	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	An Excellent Text	Janet Gonzalez-Mena has written an excellent text for the beginning early childhood teacher.  It is filled with reflective thought from her years of experience.  This provides a helpful start for new teachers to begin reflecting on their own work and the actions of the children in their respective classrooms<br />The layout is well thought out beginning with some basic theory and phiolosphy of learning, continuing to important aspects of care as health and safety, children's emotional development, guidance techniques, the role of the teacher and ending with the early childhood curriculum and integrated learning. Interwoven throughout the book is the theme of diversity and how a teacher can deal with it respectfully and successfully for the benefit of all.<br />The basic tone of the book is one you would like to see in every classroom - caring, respectful, considerate, and professional. Using the atmosphere of the book an instructor can easily guide students to reflect on the tone of their classroom and how to create a caring, respectful, considerate and professional place for children.<br />In the capacity of Early Childhood Education Instructor I am looking forward to using this text in a beginning ECE course this October.	2000-09-21
US	50123972	R3A0QZ8TTFS7K9	0515128821	842485314	The Breaker	Books	4	0	0	N	N	a tale steeped in the atmosphere of the English coast.	Minnette Walters delivers a tale steeped in the atmosphere of the English coast. It is a setting both desolate and attractive.  A place for families  to vacation and at the same time foggy and forlorn.<br />Ms Walters carefully  examines many of the strange relationships formed by the characters in her  book.  In the world of The Breaker love and friendship are not always based  on mutual like but mutual need.  We see the many things that can go wrong  with a world founded on need.<br />We also get a glimpse of integrity in  various loveless characters.  The victim herself turns out to be very  unsavory, but yet we are given another view of her that is more courageous  - which is correct?<br />The dichotomy of the characters in the book is  perhaps the foundation of her mystery.  What is each person really about -  it is the readers choice in the end.	2000-09-20
US	50123972	R8EQU7DIT4V6H	0449225453	30898399	The Dragons of Archenfield (Domesday, Bk 3)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	mystery, action and romance in a historical setting	Edward Marston pens enthralling mysteries during an exciting and  intersting time of history, the Norman Conquest of England and the ensuing  &quot;Domesday Book&quot; I am only sorry to discover him when all his  books are not readily available.<br />He provides incites regarding the  relationships of Normans, Saxsons and Welsh for the history buff.  For  those who love mysteries he provides an interesting group of detectives a  knight - Ralph, a lawyer Gervase, Canon Hubert and Brother Simon. Marston  deftly combines mystery, action and romance in a historical setting.	2000-09-19
