US	50122678	RG4WHAFZX9ULO	0804111359	207158162	The Secret History	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Beauty is terror - we quiver before it	If I were a rookie writer about to publish my first novel, I might be inclined to make sure it wasn't too good. Why? Well, have you noticed how often an author is unable to better their first novel, and their whole career becomes a vain struggle to match that first, inspired, book? Think Joseph Heller (Catch 22), Kurt Vonnegut (Cat's Cradle) or J D Salinger (The Catcher in the Rye). This isn't just a common condition among writers either. Oasis, The Stone Roses, Portishead and many other bands have suffered the same fate. Weight of expectation quite often cripples a fragile talent not prepared for an industry and public desperate for more of the same.<br />Donna Tartt may well have outdone all others in this respect. `The Secret History' is a marvellous, intriguing, beautifully written book, one of the best published in the last 20 years, and certainly the biggest literary sensation (bar Harry Potter) of the 90s. The fact that it is Tartt's first novel should not come as much of a surprise, but having just re-read it, I found myself frequently marvelling at how consistently, and frighteningly, brilliant `The Secret History' was. <br />A group of classics students at an exclusive New England college murder one of their own number when he threatens to reveal the extent to which they have revived ancient Greek rituals in modern day Vermont. This we discover on the very first page, but it is how Tartt unfolds the events that lead to this denouement, and the effects it has on the lives of the protagonists, in particular the narrator (and newcomer to the group) Richard Papen, that make this book so special. The narrative is taut, the plot gripping, the characters finely drawn and the themes eruditely fascinating, but it is the attention to detail of Tartt's prose which marks the book as something unique. Many authors have the ability to write about big themes, create memorable characters and think up exciting plots, but only a handful are able to render their novels in such convincing detail that you truly wish they would never end. Tolstoy could do this better than anyone. Fitzgerald and Fowles are two others I can think of. Actually `The Secret History' reminded me very much of Fowles' `The Magus' in its references to Ancient Greece and it's themes of moral resposibility and cause and effect. The other book that it owes a debt to is Dostoyevsky's `Crime and Punishment' (Tartt acknowledges this when Richard has the urge to confess to Bunny's father: \\"It was I killed the old pawnbroker woman and her sister Lizaveta with an axe and robbed them\\"). <br />So nearly a decade after `The Secret History' was first published, Tartt has finally managed to overcome her writer's block and has given us `The Little Friend'. I haven't read any reviews and don't know many people who have read the book. I'm not sure if I will either. Despite myself, I fear that I may, subconsciously, expect too much. That Tartt is a writer of genius I have no doubt whatsoever. Whether she can ever write another book as good as her first I very much doubt. I think I'll quit while I'm ahead.	2003-08-12
US	50122678	RLQCD6MQ4GWPB	0385494246	654180128	Amsterdam: A Novel	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Graceful yet empty	Ian McEwan is a gifted writer whose ability to fashion language to his own strange ends and make it breathe with beguiling life marks him out as one of the best of British at the moment. This undoubted talent has garnered him many accolades, and Amsterdam, as most readers will already know, was awarded the 1998 Booker Prize. In my mind this recognition was deserving for what McEwan has achieved in his career so far, but was definitely given to the wrong book - Atonement and The Child in Time are superior works.<br />As always, the intricacy of the plot, the narrative themes and the quality of McEwan's prose are precisely crafted. He has a gift for phrasing that few British novelists since Graeme Greene have matched, and some of the passages in Amsterdam are delightful. However, none of the characters are sympathetic, or even especially interesting, and this is the problem at the heart of the novel. I read it in a day, but three quarters of the way through, when I pretty much knew what was going to happen, I had ceased to care who lived and who died - it was only McEwan's fine prose that kept me interested.<br />After the death of Molly Lane four of her ex lovers, including her husband, are drawn together in a current of events which will ultimately see three of them dead or ruined: Clive Linley, the archly conservative composer, out of touch with the modern world; Vernon Halliday, the selfish, down-at-heel newspaper editor; Julian Garmony, the poisonous Foreign Secretary; and George Lane, the preposterously rich and unimaginative husband. We are shown the faults of each of the men as they react to the situations put in front of them, and a chain of events is set in motion that will ultimately lead to the final denouement. <br />What I found particularly unsatisfying about Amsterdam was the rather hurried and unconvincing breakdown in the novel's central friendship that led to the book's conclusion. It seemed a rather convenient dramatic device that was useful in allowing an exploration of the ethical issues surrounding euthenasia, but artistically speaking, did the novel a disservice. I guess ultimately Amsterdam is a cautionary tale, but I can't help thinking it is really a short story stretched out to fill a couple of hundred pages - it does have that characteristic twist in the tale that is the currency of shorter fiction, and lacks the compassion and insight that the best novels lay claim to. However, dont let this fool you into assuming this is a bad novel. It is not - though by McEwans ever rising standards, Amsterdam does feel like treading water. Id urge you to read Atonement instead, and see what this author is really capable of.	2003-05-19
US	50122678	R1XX2KNL9VF2RM	0140154078	816088736	The Music of Chance	Books	1	5	17	N	N	One of the worst books I've read	This book steams. It is boring, poorly written, the characterisation is almost non-existent and the underlying metaphor bizarre and barely comprehensible. It sets itself up as some kind of existential fable but more or less fails on all counts. <br />I'd heard Auster was worth a read, but whoever told me that was very wrong. This could have been written by a grade school student. Extremely shallow.	2001-12-13
US	50122678	R1KWLIECPA3SFA	0395193958	669379389	The Lord of the Rings	Books	5	1	1	N	N	One Ring to rule them all....	One ring to rule them all, One ring to find them<br />One ring to bring them all and in the darkness bind them<br />This is epic as it has never been done before. That one man created a world in such stunning detail, a world full of beauty and ugliness, courage and cowardice, joy and despair, good and evil is awe-inspiring. And not just a world, but a complete history - replete with folklore and legend, poetry and song, heroes and villains. `The Lord of the Rings' is the product of a formidable imagination, a book that spawned a whole genre of writing, none of which matches this, the Bible of fantasy literature.<br />Tolkien was clearly in love with Middle-Earth and its mythology. Every character, from Gollum to Galadriel is lovingly rendered in compelling detail. Every twist of the road  to Mordor is convincingly constructed, as though the author had ridden across Middle-Earth in his mind. What Tolkien has managed to do, like the handful of other great epic writers, is take a very personal story and set it against the backdrop of great events with which it is inextricably bound (don't laugh, but in this respect the book is reminiscent of `War and Peace'). The average reader will associate themselves much more with Frodo or Sam than Gandalf or Aragorn, but that is not to say we aren't as interested in their fates - we just get to see them through the eyes of the less elevated, which makes them seem more human.<br />The three parts to `The Lord of the Rings' are each quite different from each other. `The Fellowship of the Ring' begins with Bilbo's birthday party and sees the company formed in haste as they realise that Bilbo's ring is indeed the One Ring, and that Sauron's servants, the Nazgul, are hot on its trail. `The Two Towers' sees the narrative take three different routes, as the fellowship is broken up, while `The Return of the King' deals with the final great events in the War of the Rings, and is the most epic of the three.  The sadness at the passing of the third age of Middle-Earth is quite poignant, and the fact that Tolkien was writing at the time of the second World War should not be overlooked.<br />'The Lord of the Rings' is a very long book, but all the better to lose yourself in. As you may have gathered, I think it is brilliant - there aren't enough superlatives to describe it. Can't wait for the film....e third age of Middle-Earth is quite poignant, and the fact that Tolkien was writing at the time of the second World War should not be overlooked.<br />'The Lord of the Rings' is a very long book, but all the better to lose yourself in. As you may have gathered, I think it is brilliant - there aren't enough superlatives to describe it. Can't wait for the film....	2001-11-29
US	50122678	R3DC7N6872GZBD	0812567102	12564777	The Age of Innocence (Tor Classics)	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Too short!	The Age of Innocence is Edith Wharton's novel of New York high society in which she examines the social codes of 1870s Manhattan and their effects on the lives of her three main characters, Newland Archer, his fiancée May Welland and her cousin, the Countess Olenska. <br />Archer is a young man of impeccable breeding, who lives the life of the amusedly detached gentleman, assured of his place at the very highest level in society. He is engaged to the equally well-bred May Welland, a society beauty who is described throughout the novel as 'virginal' and frequently likened to a goddess. At the start of the novel Archer is looking forward to marriage and the freedom that it will bring, convinced that his will be different from the respectable boredom that seems to drive the marriages of his peers. He is aware that May is young and inexperienced, but is relishing the prospect of `educating' her. His complacent views on life begin to crumble however when he meets Ellen Olenska, May's older cousin and the estranged wife of a European count (`European' is equated throughout the novel with a vague sense of unprincipled debauchery). Ellen's reputation precedes her and because she left her husband, rumour has it, for the affections of another man, her position on returning to New York is that of an outcast. She is seen as exotic, unpredictable and oblivious to the strict code of conduct that New York society operates under. However, because she is the product of another respectable family, circumstances contrive to see that she is welcomed, albeit grudgingly, back into the fold. Archer sees himself as an open-minded and forward-thinking individual but he is not prepared for the effect Countess Olenska has on him. Because she is not governed by the constricting laws that the rest of his social circle abides by, he rapidly forms an intimate, if inappropriate, bond with her and this leads to the disintegration of his former prospects of happiness as he sees how shallow and inhibiting they really are, and how he can only be free by breaking out of the life he now sees is imprisoning him.<br />The Age of Innocence is the first Edith Wharton novel I have read, and to be honest I'm not wholly convinced by all the accolades thrown at this celebrated American writer. I did enjoy and appreciate the novel, but am convinced that if Wharton had allowed it to develop at a slower pace, it would have been a more satisfying read. At times her elegance and insight are remarkable, but I often found the dialogue, particularly between Archer and Ellen, unconvincing, and some of the decisions that Archer takes, although not necessarily out of character, seemed at odds with what has gone before. More insight into the agonising soul searching that he must have endured would have lent greater truth to the situation. It seems that Edith Wharton is a novelist in the tradition of Jane Austen and George Eliot (although for me The Age of Innocence had more parallels with The French Lieutenant's Woman by John Fowles than any book by these two brilliant authors), but with this novel she falls just short of the standards set by Austen and Eliot in that there is a slight unnaturalness to the progression of the story and the themes she explores are not explored as meticulously as they might have been. That said, The Age of Innocence still remains an interesting and moving novel and probably not the last I will read by Edith Wharton.	2001-08-10
US	50122678	R3HSDIX4Y7FQ11	037572737X	200347372	American Tabloid	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Schizoid but compelling view of recent American history	The pro Castro Cubans, the anti Castro Cubans, the FBI, the mob, the CIA, Howard Hughes, Donald Duck...... Ellroy would have us believe that all of these factions/individuals and more were somehow caught up in the conspiracy to assassinate JFK and thereby loosen the Kennedy clan's righteous grip on the reins of American power (the irrepressibly corrupt patriarch, Joseph, being the main exception). And who are we to argue? Ellroy's marvellously twisted imagination has conjured up something terrifyingly compelling in 'American Tabloid'. Terrifying for its extreme paranoia but more terrifying for the fact that you can't help feeling that it may not be so far away from the truth. Think Oliver Stone's JFK and multiply by 10. Hell, Ellroy had me thinking that I may have somehow been involved (though not sure whether I'd have been on the side of the feds or the mob. Plus I hadn't actually been born yet.....). <br />The novel centres on the relationship between three characters - Kemper Boyd, the charming, cold blooded, Kennedy wannabe, Ward Littell, the neurotic, morally upstanding, deadbeat, and Pete Bondurant, the psychotically violent mercenary. These men walk on both sides of the fence and all have different motives that shape what they do, and what they eventually become. Ellroy shows us, ominously, that nobody who is involved in violence and corruption can remain untouched by it. And the different journey that each of the men takes twists him into something unrecognisable by the time of the ominous events of 1963.<br />Ellroy's writing is downbeat, efficient, bruisingly evocative. His use of the vernacular imbues the book with authenticity and gives it a visceral quality which renders it all the more vicariously fascinating for the average middle class, law abiding reader. Where Ellroy's main appeal lies, I suspect, is in the fiendishly complicated plots he manages to conjure up, where at times you can scarcely process what is happening, but can't wait to find out what will happen next. There is no second guessing either - 'American Tabloid' avoids the obvious unerringly yet still manages to convince. What dark conspiracies lie beneath the public veneer of American politics is anyone's guess, but I'd bet my few meagre possessions on the fact that Ellroy knows a thing or two the authorities wish he didn't. And how he didn't get sued for libel, by any one of the dozens of real life figures that feature in the book (luckily most of them deceased) is beyond me. Fascinating.	2001-07-20
US	50122678	RAEMRDNDPOFCA	0316291161	474944569	The French Lieutenant's Woman	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Words fail me....	...or not quite, as this review stands as a testament to the fact that I do have something to say about 'The French Lieutenant's Woman'. It is a quite brilliant novel: wise, stimulating, compelling, sad, extraordinary. Fowles is a twentieth century author the equal of George Eliot, Jane Austen and Elizabeth Gaskell. He is an acute social commentator who regularly achieves what few authors are capable of - he creates a compelling story with real moral weight and makes the reader apply the questions at its core to themselves. He is a moralist without Eliot's tendency to preach, unfettered by the moral code of the nineteenth century writers, yet still not shying away from the complexities of his characters' situations. 'The French Lieutenant's Woman' brings a twentieth century view to a nineteenth century story quite brilliantly, showing how a century can change the code a society operates under, but not what drives its human beings: the need for acceptance and the desire for intimacy. Sarah is one of the great enigmas of twentieth century fiction, and casts a spell over the reader as much as she does over Charles. I shan't go into the details of the plot, but suffice to say that Fowles' prose is exemplary, his characters complex and charismatic, and his narrative masterly. And again, the denouement is astonishing.	2001-07-16
US	50122678	R286JQ1KW3AI4J	0140444173	748295604	War and Peace (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Birth, death and everything in between....	Tolstoy towers over the art of the novel like no other author in the history of novel writing, in that he simply holds up a mirror to the reader and allows him to understand himself better than anyone else has done before or since. Tolstoy's genius doesn't rely on dramatic plots, poetic language or revelations about humanity that nobody else had ever put forward (though all of these elements can be found in War and Peace), but rather in the resounding truth that rings through all that he writes. It is sometimes difficult to think about War and Peace in terms of fiction. For me it is almost more real than life itself, and the truth that it communicates is never surprising. It is the truth that you have always known: it just took Tolstoy's voice to make you realise.<br />In terms of reducing this magnificent work to the conventions of novel writing: the narrative focuses on the Napoleonic wars as a backdrop to the lives of the Rostovs, the Bolkonskys and Pierre Bezuhov, among a myriad of other characters. The characterisation is everything - Tolstoy's strength lies in his peerless ability to create real people with complex emotional and intellectual make-up, who love and fear and are magnanimous and are petty, who make grand gestures and who fall victim to their own human weaknesses. Tolstoy views humanity not just through a microscope, like Proust, but at the same time through the widest of wide angle lenses. No other novelist can match this ability to understand the most complex of personal motives and give them context in the vast scheme of things. Throughout this epic panoply, Tolstoy convinces us beyond doubt of his abiding philosophy - that history is the product of the will of the masses and that &quot;a king is history's slave&quot;. The notion that history is about great men shaping great events and bringing about change is shown up as the romanticized propaganda that it clearly is. Historians have poured scorn on this view, but I think they misinterpret what Tolstoy was telling us - he was not holding himself up as a prophet, he was simply saying to people &quot;look at the world around you and try and tell me that revolution created this!&quot;<br />As many of the previous reviewers have rightly advised, don't let the size of the book put you off. Tolstoy will not confound you with style - reading him is almost like breathing, it is an unconscious necessity. However, my words cannot possibly do justice to this novel; just let them convince you of one thing: your life will be infinitely poorer if you never read War and Peace.t Tolstoy was telling us - he was not holding himself up as a prophet, he was simply saying to people &quot;look at the world around you and try and tell me that revolution created this!&quot; <br />As many of the previous reviewers have rightly advised, don't let the size of the book put you off. Tolstoy will not confound you with style - reading him is almost like breathing, it is an unconscious necessity. However, my words cannot possibly do justice to this novel; just let them convince you of one thing: your life will be infinitely poorer if you never read War and Peace.	2001-02-14
US	50122678	RFFNFLBF9IPO	0679777504	728817726	Oscar and Lucinda	Books	5	49	51	N	N	Wonderful	Oscar and Lucinda is the best book by my favourite living author. I am a failed writer, and it is thanks to authors as talented as Peter Carey (and there are only a handful) that I chose to give up: I couldn't possibly hope to capture human life on the page, with all its infinite possibilities, as beautifully, gracefully, amusingly and touchingly as Peter Carey. As Angela Carter writes on the dust jacket of my copy, \\"It fills me with a wild, savage envy, and no novelist could say fairer than that\\". I am currently half way through my second reading of Oscar and Lucinda, and I know what is in store for me. I am prepared to sob like a child, and I am relishing it.<br />Set in England and Australia in the nineteenth century, the novel is essentially about the precariousness of existence and how people's lives are constructed by chance. Its essence is perhaps best captured in Oscar's speech to Lucinda on the ship Leviathan: \\"Our whole faith is a wager...We bet that there is a God.  We bet our life on it...We must stake everything on the unprovable fact of His existence\\". And so they sit down to a game of cards.<br />Objectivity is perhaps an unattainable goal. When I recommend Oscar and Lucinda to my friends, they generally enjoy it.  But this is not enough for me. I want them to feel it as keenly as I do - that Carey is an astonishing writer, possessed of an imagination, intelligence, wit and compassion, and the ability to imbue his writing with these qualities, unrivalled by any living author. And that Oscar and Lucinda is a strange, evocative, beautiful, tender novel which will make them laugh and make them cry and make them wish it would never end. I hope this is recommendation enough.	2000-12-13
US	50122678	RULZS6AX55CPA	0684857081	86280798	Easy Riders, Raging Bulls: How the Sex-Drugs-and-Rock 'N' Roll Generation Saved Hollywood	Books	4	25	27	N	N	Scandalously fascinating insight into 70s Hollywood....	This book is a terrific read: an amazingly revealing insight into the workings of the Hollywood machine and a convincing explanation of why the film industry is the way it is today. Fascinating for any film fan but truly essential for those particularly interested in Coppola, Scorcese, Altman and the other enfants terribles of the 70s. I learned more than I ever thought I would about the strange habits, curious peccadilloes and psychological frailties of these legendary directors and producers. Seminal figures such as Dennis Hopper, William Friedkin, Peter Bogdanovich and Scorsese all come across as frighteningly deranged, emphasising the fine line that separates genius from insanity - and many of these characters clearly ended up on the wrong side of the divide. One of Biskind's great strengths is that he seeks to portray all sides of the story, and it's hard not to believe the majority of what is reported simply for the fact that if wasn't true you can bet your life that lawsuits would have stopped publication in its tracks.<br />The spirit of the times engendered by the rise of the anti-Vietnam, hippy counterculture, generated a climate where a new form of creativity was allowed to enter the mainstream for the first time.  This produced a fabulous glut of films - Bonnie and Clyde, The Godfather, The Exorcist, Taxi Driver, The Deerhunter, Star Wars, MASH and dozens of others. Biskind's belief is that the rise of the super director destroyed this astounding period in Hollywood history - egos and pay checks became so over inflated that eventually the studios realised that they had to seize back control.  As a result the industry more or less stopped producing original pictures and opted for the safe bet of formulaic blockbusters which were more likely to draw big crowds - through excessive marketing and merchandising campaigns and extravagant special effects. <br />Biskind's style is compelling and the anectdotal evidence at times hilarious, at others horrific (Peter Bogdanovich's fall from grace is particularly gruesome). `Easy Riders Raging Bulls' must be one of the best books yet written about Hollywood and one of the best non-fiction books I have read in many years.	2000-11-29
US	50122678	RU0JETPFTANHM	0345404475	978657248	Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep?: The inspiration for the films Blade Runner and Blade Runner 2049	Books	5	19	20	N	N	Read it	I'll hold my hand up now and say that I'm not a sci-fi afficionado. However, I must make an exception in the case of `Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep?'.  This is one original and fiercely intelligent novel, which transcends the genre that spawned it: it is the equal of many highly regarded works of `serious' literature and undoubtedly the product of a formidable intellect.  The ideas that Philip K Dick generates and the way he applies them to the human condition in this book throw up some fascinating themes: is empathy what makes us human? Is life precious for its own sake? Can we be sure that we are even 'alive'?<br />The novel is set on a post holocaust Earth now only sparsely populated by `specials' - humans whose genes have been rendered defective by radioactive dust - and a few others.  The remaining healthy humans have migrated to Mars, seduced by the promise of owning their own android.  The value of life on Earth is so high that a ludicrous extreme now exists, where the ultimate status goal is to own a live animal - which only the affluent, or the desperate, can afford. The sad, but cheap, alternative is to own an electric replica in order to save face with the neighbours.<br />Rick Deckard is a bounty hunter, his job to 'retire' renegade androids who have escaped from Mars. Six of the latest, highly sophisticated, Nexus 6 models have committed murder and escaped to Earth. The trouble is, these androids are so convincing it is only possible to be sure they are not human by gauging their reflex reactions to a series of questions, to test their empathy. This approach obviously has its shortcomings - the android could well have a laser gun pointed at you underneath the table. Set over the course of a single day, the novel charts the psychological voyage of discovery that Deckard unwittingly embarks on which sees him transformed from a down at heel private eye, who does his job without ever questioning the ethics or consequences, to an existentially uncertain refusenik who is profoundly unsure of his own sanity.<br />Dick's novel was the inspiration for Ridley Scott's `Bladerunner', though the two are significantly different. Where `Bladerunner' is a sort of ultra stylish sci-fi film noir `Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep?' is a more cerebral experience that touches on some fairly weighty philosophical themes.  The film is visually stunning and manages to captures a nightmarish vision of a post apocalyptic future more perfectly than any other movie in the last twenty years, except perhaps `Terminator'. It is a work of atmosphere over ideas, though this isn't a criticism. The book covers more ground - certain elements, such as the bizarre religion Mercerism and the almost fanatical sociological obsession with live animals, are omitted from `Bladerunner', and these help to contextualise the warped evolution of human life on earth since World War Terminus. In conclusion this book is a classic, and that is not a term I would use lightly. It works on all sorts of levels, whether you're after a thought provoking exploration on what it means to be `alive' or simply an exciting, well written sci-fi detective yarn.  Read it.	2000-11-24
US	50122678	R18OHWB1IG3X8A	0140444696	771237926	The Kreutzer Sonata and Other Stories (Penguin Classics)	Books	4	11	14	N	N	Late period Tolstoy in cynical mood	The stories contained in this volume (`The Kreutzer Sonata', `The Devil', `The Forged Coupon' and `After the Ball') are from Tolstoy's late period and are markedly different in tone from the great works of his early period, `The Cossacks' and `War and Peace'. Those early works are characterised by Tolstoy's enormous compassion and lust for life, while even the more troubled `Anna Karenina' is infused with the author's magnanimous wisdom, despite the grave self-doubts that were plaguing him at the time of writing. `The Kreutzer Sonata' marks a sea-change in mood for this greatest of all novelists. All of the stories here are stained with the cynicism that overtook Tolstoy in his advancing years, and the almost overwhelming sense of guilt at what he saw as the dissolute and wasted life he had led, and the hollowness of relations between men and women. The sheer joie de vivre of Natasha Rostov in `War and Peace' contrasts severely with the nihilism of Pozdnyshev in `The Kreutzer Sonata', while the misfortunes of almost every character in `The Forged Coupon' do not point to a happy or optimistic author. These are interesting stories however, which at times equal Tolstoy at his most illuminating - though even Tolstoy some way off his best is more than a match for most. Highly recommended.	2000-11-06
US	50122678	R17P1P0V1R37S4	0393311147	583166974	Sacred Hunger	Books	5	16	17	N	N	Magnificently compelling, beautifully drawn	Barry Unsworth's novel Sacred Hunger is an exquisitely crafted tale of commerce and corruption set in 18th century England, at the heart of which  lies the tension between the moral characters of two cousins.  Erasmus Kemp  is the intense, arrogant son of a slave ship owner, who holds the  prevailing opinion of the day that the lawful accumulation of wealth is the  only way a man should live his life.  Mathew Paris is the ship's doctor  recently rescued from prison by his uncle for publishing blasphemous and  seditious views on evolution.  Their relationship is set against the  backdrop of the Liverpool Merchant's ill-fated voyage to Africa to buy  slaves, and the mutiny that follows.<br />Paris is a thoughtful and troubled  man whose constant battle against pride enriches him with a humanity and  compassion that are beyond his cousin's reach or understanding.  The  respective self awareness of the two characters is fascinating:  while Kemp  has no conscious doubt whatsoever that right is on his side, Paris is  plagued by self-doubt and guilt at his wife's death while he was in prison.   Kemp's hatred for Paris is a deep-rooted one, possibly founded on the  sub-conscious knowledge that it is in fact his cousin who is the better  man, despite what society would have him believe.  Kemp possesses power and  wealth, but these aren't enough to combat the monomania of his hatred for  Paris and its tragic consequences.    Unsworth portrays vividly the moral  bankruptcy that festers at the heart of 18th century English society, where  the kidnapping and trading of human beings is seen as a lawful enterprise  while the mere expression of views contrary to the current religious ones  is seen as unlawful and pernicious.  Sacred Hunger attempts a formidable  examination of human nature and what man can be driven to inflict on man  for the sake of power and wealth, and the author succeeds in what he sets  out to do with admirable assurance.  The quality of Unworth's prose is  astonishing.  He writes with an economy and grace that no other  contemporary author (that I know of) can match. The period detail is  beautifully drawn and the style spare and evocative.  <br />Sacred Hunger is a  magnificent book: it really does rival the great Victorian novels in terms  of its scope of ambition, moral exploration, convincing characterisation  and marvellous scene setting.  I cannot believe that there has been a  better historical novel published in the last twenty years.	2000-08-03
US	50122678	R1NYRT1W4SIPOD	0393314804	232683594	Trainspotting	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Brutally, disgustingly, hilariously disturbing.....	Irvine Welsh's blistering debut novel hit the literary world like a meteorite on first publication,  spawning a deluge of pale imitators seeking to reveal the seedy underbelly of society to a readership  fascinated by the junkies, hooligans and losers that Trainspotting had  brought to life so vividly.  Welsh's book is the genuine article though, a  fragmented collage of tales based around the lives of Renton, the  anti-hero, cod philosopher and sometime heroin addict, Sick Boy, the Don  Juan with a heart of stone, Spud, the gormless, animal loving humanitarian  (and the only genuinely sympathetic charcter in the book), and Begbie, the  psychotic thug whose twisted logic all bow down to through motives of self  preservation.  <br />Those who have seen Danny Boyle's excellent film  adaptation will know that Trainspotting's plot (in the loosest sense of the  word) concerns the highs and lows, the thrills and despair of living on the  Edinburgh schemes during the 80s, and Renton's attempts to escape the life  he has built for himself.  The film omits large chunks of the book out of  the necessity to boil down the plot for the shorter attention span of  cinema-goers, but the essence of the book is still captured admirably.  The  moral neutrality of Trainspotting is a huge positive for me.  There is no  sermonising here:  Welsh makes no bones about the fact that using heroin is  seductively pleasurable, but equally he paints a grim picture of the  downside - Renton's attempts to give up the skag are particularly stomach  churning.  However, the book is exuberant in its appetite for life, and  those living on the edge of it.  The anti-right wing politics are present  but not especially overt, and accountability is never shifted from the  shoulders of the individual. The novel's shifting narrative, together with  Welsh's decision to write in the Edinburgh dialect, is initially  disorienting, but ultimately reveals events from several different  perspectives - illuminatingmore than would otherwise have been possible.   The language is visceral and pulsing with life - not for the faint hearted  (you may well find yourself reading in a Scottish accent in your head!).   Some of the episodes, such as the toilet scene and the bedclothes scene are  brutally, disgustingly hilarious: Welsh shows no regard for the finer  sensibilities of his readers and occasionally I found myself squirming in  my seat!<br />A certain amount of moral outrage has dogged Trainspotting since  it's birth, but this has not prevented the novel from building a formidable  reputation as an acute, funny, disturbing and painfully honest novel that  is not afraid to confront its subject matter unflinchingly.  It is one of  my favourite books.  If you can take it, it may well become one of yours.	2000-07-27
US	50122678	R2PUCC7F01QXRF	0684833395	458864358	Catch-22	Books	5	1	3	N	N	A list	Brilliant, moving, hilarious, profound, tragic, complex, gripping, absurd, clever, joyful, witty, evocative, acute, bitter, ingenious, unique, wise, simple, perceptive, sad, riotous, truthful, sublime, genius. <br />Catch-22.   All of these things and more.	2000-05-19
US	50122678	RIJ0D6R20ISZ5	0684872153	698161422	Angela's Ashes:  A Memoir	Books	3	3	7	N	N	The triumph of truth over fiction?	Bah humbug! Sorry to spoil the party, but I can't agree with the majority view that Angela's Ashes is a great book. Why greater praise is heaped on this book over others because it is &quot;true&quot; I can't quite  understand. Surely the truth limits the writer's talents - he is merely  reporting his perception of experiences.  What great novelists do is use  character, plot and style to give greater resonance to truth. This is  difficult for all but the very greatest of memoir writers, and is why the  memoirs of people who aren't already famous are usually unpopular. So in  that respect Angela's Ashes is a bit of a phenomenon. An interesting aside  is that apparently those living in Limerick at the time Angela's Ashes is  based in, and who remember the McCourt family, have disputed the version of  events as told in Angela's Ashes. <br />Anyway, ignoring the authenticity  issue, my main gripe with Angela's Ashes is that, as a piece of literature,  it is adequate but no more. I suppose the aspect that most people find so  rewarding is the &quot;triumph over adversity&quot; theme. I'm not  disputing that McCourt endured a pretty horrible childhood, but what I did  find unappealing was the passivity of his response - and the implicit  assumption that this martyr-like attitude was somehow praiseworthy.  Stylistically Angela's Ashes is OK - minimal, downbeat, conversational, but  I thought the characterisation a little weak - I didn't learn an awful lot  about Angela, while Frank himself comes across as a bit of a non-entity.   <br />Angela's Ashes, the Pulitzer Prize winning phenomenon, is OK in my  opinion, but if you like genuinely funny, charming, sad and heartwarming   tales of working-class Irish upbringings, Roddy Doyle's Barrytown Trilogy  is a considerably better read.	2000-04-11
US	50122678	RZ87IN6UAJV4J	0684830795	351794557	The Thought Gang	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Cliches are the truths we're bored with....	Tibor Fischer is one of the best writers on the planet -consistently hilarious, fiercely inventive and possessed of thatintuitive insight which makes you think - &quot;Of course! Why didn't I think of that?&quot; <br />The Thought Gang is a blast - a bald, lazy, dishonest Cambridge Philosophy professor joins forces with a one armed, sociopathic, French armed robber to form the Thought Gang - bank robbers with a philosophical bent who embark on a bank job spree in the south of France. From the ridiculous to the.... well, even more ridiculous really, Fischer draws you into his world where statements such as &quot;I suppose we've all found ourselves running brothels in Amsterdam without the proper training at some time or another&quot; or questions like &quot;Does it help being the clever pig on the way to the abbatoir?&quot; are pretty much the norm. Many zeds and Fischer's penchant for turning nouns into verbs add to the sense of absurd realism, giving the Thought Gang the feel of a Woody Allen movie, but with more philosophy (if that's possible).<br />Both the Collector Collector and Don't Read This Book If You're Stupid are excellent, while Under the Frog is even better. If you've never read any Tibor Fischer, you are definitely missing out. So treat your brain to some comic philosophy (or is it philosophical comedy?) - read the Thought Gang.	2000-04-07
US	50122678	R3C9GTDZ50WPZ5	0395051053	3653538	Middlemarch	Books	5	22	26	N	N	The greatest English novel yet written.....	I was extremely hesitant about reviewing George Eliot'sMiddlemarch, as it's been ten years or so since I've read it, but inthe end I couldn't resist adding my comments to those of others. Quite simply, it is the greatest novel yet written by an English author: Middlemarch is the fullest realisation of George Eliot's ideas on social philosophy combined with her utterly convincing characterisation and remarkable moral insight. <br />The novel's 'heroine' is Dorothea Brooke, a young woman of excellent virtue who is passionately idealistic about the good that can be achieved in life. The provincial setting of Middlemarch is the environment in which Dorothea's struggle to fulfil her ideals takes place, and the novel's central theme is how the petty politics of provincial 19th century England are largely accountable for her failure. In parallel with Dorothea's story is the story of Lydgate, an intelligent and ambitious doctor who also runs up against the obstructive forces of provincial life and finds them severely restrictive of his goals. <br />Eliot is supremely compassionate, yet never blind to the faults of her characters. Dorothea's ideas of social reform are naive, while her high opinion of Casaubon's work proves to be a major mistake. But Eliot is never cynical when the motives of her characters are pure, and does not censure them for failure.  What she is critical of is the narrow minded self-seeking attitude which forces Dorothea and Lydgate to come to terms with the fact that often good does not win out over circumstance. The subtext to this is the fact that the high ideals and sense of responsibility intrinsic in both Dorothea and Lydgate means that there is no question of them ever finding love together. In essence, Middlemarch is simply about life and how things don't always work out, despite our best intentions, but are often the product of negative forces.  In other novels Eliot's didacticism can sometimes jar, but it is impossible to ignore the depth of her wisdom in Middlemarch.<br />Middlemarch is the best novel of our greatest novelist - of the major Victorian writers only Tolstoy can really compare with her - and I cannot recommend it highly enough.	2000-04-05
US	50122678	R1YS85Y5CTUWFT	067976397X	659658614	Corelli's Mandolin: A Novel	Books	5	6	13	N	N	Super read	I thought Corelli's Mandolin was a super read. De Bernieres' mastery of plot, characterisation and history were so real! I felt like I knew the characters and was so sad when I finished the book! I take offence at that  &quot;reviewer&quot; who hadn't even read the book, as I consider myself a  good judge of literature - I have read Anne Tyler, Paul Auster, Nick Hornby  and all those other great writers and none of them is as good as Louis de  Bernieres. What a dickwad!	2000-04-04
US	50122678	RHX5WQ009MJRL	0711975469	60804210	The Gloria Estefan Collection: Piano/Vocal/Chords	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Legendary	Mick Middles biography is an excellent and comprehensive attempt to catalogue the rise and fall of the legendary Manchester band.  Fuller than John Robb's book - The Stone Roses and the Resurrection of British Pop - Breaking into Heaven: The Rise and Fall of the Stone Roses traces the roots  of the band back to the early childhoods of Ian Brown and John Squire  through the punk inspired Patrol era to the heady days of 1989 when the  Stone Roses looked likely to conquer the world. The portrait of Gareth  Evans, the Stone Roses' ebullient manager at the height of their success,  is amusing and revealing, and the postscript on Ian Brown's up and down  career since the demise of the band is also fascinating.  A must for any  true Stone Roses fan.	2000-04-03
US	50122678	RDEGIZ6Z1UJDX	067976397X	659658614	Corelli's Mandolin: A Novel	Books	2	5	55	N	N	So shoot me down...	I have never read Captain Corelli's Mandolin.  This is because I am a literary snob. While some people may think I am biting off my nose to spite my face by refusing to read this novel, I don't think so. There are  thousands of different novels which, I'm sure, are more worth reading then  Captain Corelli's Mandolin. Novels by Tolstoy, Eliot, Dostoevsky, Balzac,  Proust, Hesse, Joyce, Lawrence, Kundera, Fowles et al. Most people will  never get near them for two reasons: a) they are not fashionable. b) people  are too intellectually apathetic to invest time and effort into something  which is not immediately rewarding.  What I object to is not Louis De  Bernieres himself but the people who hold him up as some sort of literary  messiah.  What I say to these people is: go and read something by the  authors I have just mentioned and then you can judge whether or not Captain  Corelli's Mandolin is really &quot;great&quot; literature. Here is a  patronising maxim: you get out of novels, like everything in life, what you  put in to them (i.e. often the most &quot;difficult&quot; novels, ones  which require intellectual effort, are the most rewarding). For those of  you who are well-read, I apologise. You must think I'm an arrogant,  patronising elitist.	2000-03-21
US	50122678	R1JV1HU11FONOV	0440351626	838354674	The Magus	Books	5	19	22	N	N	Engrossing exploration of love, betrayal and accountability	It's been a few years since I read The Magus, so the details are a little fuzzy in my mind.  However, what is important is that I remember very well  the impact that the book had on me: it shocked me and made me look at  myself in great detail, which is a very rare thing in a work of literature.  <br />Fowles is the greatest post-war English author and one of the greats of  the twentieth century, a real literary heavyweight. Although The Collector  was published first, The Magus was the first novel that Fowles wrote, and  it is an amazingly ambitious effort. The novel encompasses Greek tragedy,  the absence of moral responsibility and accountability in war-time and the  unacceptably laissez faire attitude to morality that has become  increasingly prevalent in modern Western culture.  He exposes his fairly  mediocre protagonist to all sorts of intellectual and moral tests, and  truly dazzles the reader with the breadth of his ideas and the depth of his  insight into morality. The psychological torture that Nicholas is subjected  to in order to learn his lesson is fascinatingly cruel and you can't help  feeling sorry for him by the end - he really doesn't understand what has  happened to him. <br />And the denouement is astonishing.	2000-03-16
US	50122678	RH8CXMGVDB8YZ	0679735771	92932803	American Psycho	Books	4	19	22	N	N	Gruesomely important, brilliantly banal...	American Psycho is an unpleasant book - let's get that straight from the start.  If you are easily shocked or disturbed, be warned - Bret Easton Ellis pulls no punches in his graphic descriptions of sex and extreme  violence. <br />However, American Psycho is close to brilliance in the way the  author tackles head on the vacuous, deluded and morally bankrupt lifestyle  of the aspirant 20th century Wall Street yuppie. Like The Great Gatsby 70  years before it, American Psycho is a damning portrayal of the careless  extravagance and shallow spirituality of the American nouveau riche, and  the consequences that this lifestyle can bring. Bateman's obsession with  designer labels, his appreciation for bland, soulless, fashionable music  allied to his violent mysogyny and extreme misanthropy really nail what is  wrong with a society that lauds status, money and superficial  &quot;success&quot; above integrity, creativity and moral values.<br />Having  said that, Ellis certainly doesn't possess Fitzgerald's command of prose,  and how he chooses to deliver his message cannot be called subtle.  Nevertheless, American Psycho is a brave, if brutal, attempt at tackling  what few have chosen to tackle, and for that the author should be praised.	2000-03-15
US	50122678	R1PC18ZQFQCXB3	0394712439	863473949	Remembrance of Things Past Volumes 1-3 Box Set	Books	5	194	207	N	N	Bewilderingly unique	I'm afraid I cannot really quantify &quot;A la recherche dutemps perdu&quot; in terms of a star rating, although I have had togive it 5 stars because I couldn't submit my review otherwise! It took me the best part of two years to read Proust's magnum opus and the question I find myself asking is: was it time well spent?  I'm really not sure, even two years later.  <br />The first and most important thing I will say is that the novel is unlike anything you will ever read, and Proust is totally unique among authors. If you thought Tolstoy or Eliot were insightful, Proust digs beneath another ten layers of motive and counter-motive to reveal his truths: there has never been a writer prepared to go to such exhaustive lengths. I'm still not sure exactly what the book is about, either.  Nominally it is an exploration of the perception of time and its effects on the mind. Proust shines this light on his protagonist's early years and the high social circles he finds himself moving in. Some of the characters are memorably bizarre - principally the Baron de Charlus, whose incredible arrogance and self-deception will certainly provide the reader with a few surprises. <br />... Proust's other fascinations with lineage and place names may not be to every reader's tastes but are revealing insights into his incredible pedantry and appetite for minutiae.  <br />The writing itself is often astonishing - Proust's ideas about love, betrayal and jealousy are sometimes diametrically opposed to received wisdom, but when he concentrates his unmistakable genius on these themes it is hard not to agree with his reasoning, however cynical it may be.<br />Overall, I wouldn't recommend &quot;A la recherche du temps perdu&quot; lightly. Many people won't get past the opening ruminations over the effects of Marcel missing his mother's goodnight kiss. However, for serious literary buffs it is a must.  END	2000-03-14
US	50122678	R1ZCU0XYZW1433	0553212737	569473707	Emma (Bantam Classics)	Books	5	14	14	N	N	I'll try not to give away the ending...	Emma is Jane Austen at her best, the work of a writer in her prime.  While earlier novels such as Northanger Abbey and Pride and Prejudice are extremely witty and well-plotted, none are as clever, interesting or  satisfying as Emma, in its depiction of the frivolous preoccupations of the  landed gentry in eighteenth century England. <br />The plot centres around  Emma Woodhouse, the young, beautiful and clever daughter of a hypochondriac  father, who amuses herself by attempting to play cupid to her friends and  neighbours - with predictably painful results. Austen's characterisation is  delightful: characters such as Mr Woodhouse and Miss Bates are brilliant  comic creations but are never in danger of becoming caricatures, like  Dickens' characters sometimes do.  Meanwhile Emma herself is a complex  mixture of intelligence and thoughtlessness, kind-heartedness and  self-satisfaction, and is superbly realised.  Austen's dialogue is as  delicious, and frequently hilarious, as ever - she reveals the finer  nuances of her characters through the things they say, intentionally or  otherwise - and shows how intuitively insightful and compassionate she was.  <br />As in most Jane Austen novels, all situations resolve themselves into a  happy ending, though whether this tendency was prompted by a genuine  positivity and warmth of feeling or a playful sense of irony, nobody is  sure.  Regardless, Emma is a tremendously satisfying read.	2000-03-01
US	50122678	R108BOTFN2W5XN	0192833812	289712823	Anna Karenina (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	5	5	8	N	N	Be amazed	Tolstoy's extraordinary wisdom and the beautiful precision, economy and grace of his writing are never more evident than when reading Anna Karenina. The novel is a perceptive and moving exploration of love,  morality and religion and their effects on the human spirit.<br />The story of  Anna's passion for Vronsky and the terrible consequences it brings is not  an original concept, but never has it been portrayed more compassionately  and more truthfully.  In parallel with this runs the story of Levin's  struggle to understand himself and the world around him, and the more  satisfying love he finally finds with Kitty.<br />Some of the most  compelling and profound writing in any novel can be found in Anna Karenina.  Levin's violent inner struggle when Kitty is in labour, and then his  reaction when his son is born is written so beautifully, capturing the  helplessness, confusion and love of the expectant father so convincingly, I  was almost in tears. The description of Levin's attempts at scything is  also pure brilliance.  Levin is the most interesting and complex character  in the novel, and he is the real protagonist, but Kitty, Anna and Vronsky  are also fascinating characters in their own rights.<br />Tolstoy's genius  has long been recognised, but if you have never had the privilege of  witnessing it yourself, read Anna Karenina and be amazed.	2000-02-25
US	50122678	R2KAHG1MPCMBLI	0345325818	619220705	The Silmarillion	Books	5	95	102	N	N	Epic	Most Tolkien fans read The Hobbit first, followed by The Lord of the Rings.  The more intrepid readers give The Silmarillion a go, and they must be glad they did. I was no exception. The biggest reward for Tolkien fans will come with reading The Silmarillion, Tolkien's great mythological work  which charts the rise and fall of Middle Earth, from the creation, to after  the events told in The Lord of The Rings.  I can't recommend it enough. I  don't consider myself a true Tolkien afficianado or a true fan of the  fantasy genre.  However, The Silmarillion is one of the finest books ever  written and a magnificent and precious achievement. It is frightening to  think how one man could conceive of such a vast, complex, fascinating and -  ultimately - believable mythology.  The word epic is over used, but in  relation to The Silmarillion it is entirely justified. The quality of the  writing is first class, the characterisation exquisite, but Tolkien's real  genius lies in his ability to conjure up strange worlds, strange creatures  and strange events which resonate in the reader's imagination and renders  them totally convincing. By the end I was overwhelmed.	2000-02-24
US	50122678	R27JF8BMR2GXRZ	0679440089	572624538	Jack Maggs	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Well drawn but unsatisfying exploration of redemption	Jack Maggs, Peter Carey's latest novel, is well observed and well written, with Carey's trademark eye for detail turned into deliciously quirky prose. I am a big fan of Carey, but must, however, confess to being disappointed at Jack Maggs. The novel seems to me to be too much form and not enough  content, the characters not as interesting or as likeable as in earlier  books. <br />I went to a reading the author gave when this book was first  published, and like all great authors (I imagine) he possessed a rich, if  intimidating, seam of fascinating insights, thoughtful observations and  witty reminiscences. I meant to ask him what The Unusual Life of Tristan  Smith was all about, and why he had written it, as, when I first read that  novel, I sensed that Carey may have been losing his grip on what had made  him one of my favourite novelists. But understandably I didn't have the  courage. Now, with Jack Maggs, I think my fears have been confirmed. The  brilliance of Illywhacker and Oscar and Lucinda has been replaced by the  well contructed competence of a writer struggling to recapture the  inspiration of youth.  Where Carey once continually surprised me, made me  laugh, made me think and ultimately dazzled me with the strange and  wonderful virtuosity of his prose, now he leaves me with a vaguely hollow  feeling, as though the compassion and depth of thought he used to infuse in  all of his writing has somehow dissipated.  <br />Jack Maggs is not a bad  book, it is just not the brilliant book that you would expect from a  once-brilliant author.	2000-02-24
US	50122678	R1C30QO2T1KNFH	0060909005	124176304	The Collected Poems	Books	5	8	9	N	N	We have come so far, it is over.	Sylvia Plath's life has passed into legend and probably overshadowed the work of an amazing and important poet. That she never achieved the success and critical acceptance she craved during her lifetime was perhaps  inevitable, and ultimately what drove her to produce an incredible glut of  poems just before she died.  These Ariel poems are what made Plath's name,  and they are fantastic.  Her use of language is brutal, stark, desperate  and desperately moving - like no one else before her. The cadences of her  poems, regardless of whether or not you understand the words, are  remarkably powerful and capture what she must have been feeling - the  bruising, paralysing anger mingled with the corrosive bitterness of  betrayal and the knowledge that vain hope in the face of despair may not be  enough to live on.  Read the poems and marvel at their beauty and their  humanity.	2000-02-23
US	50122678	R294Y2AKHS2YQL	037540256X	832554018	A Patchwork Planet	Books	3	6	22	N	N	The underachievement of the contemporary novel	I turned the first pages of Anne Tyler's much lauded A Patchwork Planet with high expectations.  On the back cover Nick Hornby had referred to her as America's greatest living writer and various glowing tributes came from  other reliable sources. After a few chapters I became convinced that, like  John Fowles' The Collector, the first person narrative was a stylistic red  herrring designed to draw us into the mediocre mind of the protagonist.  However, it soon became clear that this was not the case.  Conclusion: Anne  Tyler is a mediocre novelist who shines by default, due to the lack of  major novelists working in America today. And it is not just America who  suffers this fate.  I can only think of a handful of contemporary novelists  who even come close to measuring up to the great Victorian novelists.   Where are the Tolstoys, the Dickens, the Eliots of today? Maybe the novel  is really dead, as avante-garde critics are so fond of telling us.  <br />I  can think of few novels written in the last twenty years that have struck  me as profound, insightful or beautifully written.  Sacred Hunger by Barry  Unsworth, Oscar and Lucinda by Peter Carey and Under the Frog by Tibor  Fischer are the ones that push themselves forward.  In terms of America, I  found my stab at Paul Auster immensely disappointing, while Brett Easton  Ellis is, shall we say, not to everyone's taste. Only two novelists still  living strike me as comparable with the greats of yesteryear - John Fowles  and Milan Kundera.  <br />This may seem unfair on Anne Tyler - after all, I'm  sure she never claimed to be her country's foremost novel writer.  However,  for those who consider her a major talent, I must question their taste and  their judgement.  She is a writer of entertaining, if mundane, vignettes  about normal people and everyday problems, who is good enough to earn an  honest buck, but no more.  Genuine literary ambition seems altogether out  of Tyler's reach.	2000-02-23
US	50122678	RPE3NCFRQRNES	0060909005	530217243	The Collected Poems	Books	5	0	0	N	N	We have come so far, it is over.	Sylvia Plath's life has passed into legend and probably overshadowed the work of an amazing and important poet. That she never achieved the success and critical acceptance she craved during her lifetime was perhaps  inevitable, and ultimately what drove her to produce an incredible glut of  poems just before she died.  These Ariel poems are what made Plath's name,  and they are fantastic.  Her use of language is brutal, stark, desperate  and desperately moving - like no one else before her. The cadences of her  poems, regardless of whether or not you understand the words, are  remarkably powerful and capture what she must have been feeling - the  bruising, paralysing anger mingled with the corrosive bitterness of  betrayal and the knowledge that vain hope in the face of despair may not be  enough to live on.  Read the poems and marvel at their beauty and their  humanity.	2000-02-23
US	50122678	R29D2LQCOLH7CI	0684801523	193175702	The Great Gatsby	Books	5	4	5	N	N	The disintegration of the American dream	The Great Gatsby is an important book, make no mistake.  It is also the finest novel of a very fine novelist. At a time when America was just beginning to realise that it was as susceptible to corruption, greed and  self-delusion as every other country on the planet, Fitzgerald wrote a book  that really does capture the moment a nation founded on ideals realises  that ideals are hard to live by.<br />Gatsby, the central anti-character, is  a mere shadow, a man who reinvents himself to win the heart of the girl he  think he loves.  The foundations of this infatuation and subsequent  reinvention are rotten and the result must be rotten too. Fitzgerald writes  beautifully, his words tinged with the sadness and quiet desperation that  flavours the whole novel, and his characters all seem to sense that their  lives are built on precarious ideas about success, happiness and love.<br />The Great Gatsby is a very honest and acute portrayal of a nation built  on the misbegotten assumption that you can be whoever you want to be, and  the consequences that that belief holds. More importantly it is a brilliant  and moving novel.	2000-02-22
US	50122678	R3IDYIN62WOQ0Q	0140444173	727808181	War and Peace (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	17	20	N	N	A magnificent panorama of life and love and death	Tolstoy towers over the art of the novel like no other author in the history of novel writing (not Balzac, not Dostoevsky, not Dickens, not even Proust), in that he simply holds up a mirror to the reader and allows him  to understand himself.  Tolstoy's genius doesn't rely on dramatic plots,  poetic language or revelations about humanity that nobody else had ever  propounded, though all of these elements can be found in War and Peace, but  rather in the resounding truth that rings through all that he writes. It is  almost irrelevant to think about War and Peace in terms of a novel. For me  it is life itself, and the truth that it communicates is never surprising,  but the truth that you always knew:  it just took Tolstoy's voice to make  you realise.  <br />In terms of reducing this magnificent work to the  conventions of novel writing: the &quot;plot&quot; focuses on the  Napoleonic wars as a backdrop to the lives of the Rostovs, the Bolkonskys  and Pierre Bezuhov, among others. The characterisation is everything -  Tolstoy's strength lies in his peerless ability to create real people with  complex emotional and intellectual make-up, who love and fear and are  magnanimous and are petty, who make grand gestures and who fall victim to  their own human weaknesses. Throughout the vast panoply, Tolstoy  demonstrates his abiding philosophy, that history is the product of the  will of the masses and that &quot;a king is history's slave&quot;, thereby  undermining the popular view of great men shaping great events and bringing  about change. Historians and philosophers like to pour scorn on this view,  but I think they misinterpret what Tolstoy was trying to achieve - he was  not holding himself up as a prophet, he was simply saying to people  &quot;look at the world around you and try and tell me that revolution  created this!&quot; <br />As many of the previous reviewers have rightly  advised, don't let the size of the book put you off. Tolstoy will not  confound you with style - reading him is almost like breathing, it is a  necessity.  My words cannot possibly do justice to this novel, but just let  them convince you of one thing: life would be poorer if you never read War  and Peace.	2000-02-21
