US	50125958	R3R14Z2YM5OU94	1587761459	902560989	Understanding Middle-earth: Essays on Tolkien's Middle-earth	Books	5	26	39	N	N	Understanding Balrog passages and the War of the Wings	While I have ignored the negative reviews posted about my books in the past, Conrad Dunkerson's misleading assertions need to be directly addressed.  So, this seems to be the only appropriate way I can set the record straight.  It should be noted that his true motive is to discredit statements made about a single paragraph which he and others have attempted to use to &quot;prove&quot; that all of J.R.R. Tolkien's Balrogs were wingless.<br />Ultimately, it is not my work that Conrad is hoping to discredit -- but Christopher Tolkien's work.  This is all about Balrogs and wings.<br />Conrad Dunkerson's argument is based on his refusal to accept Christopher Tolkien's explanation of the manuscript histories.  While it may bore some people to read about all these texts, it is important that anyone reading these reviews understand that the research of the reviewers needs to be questioned at least as much as the research of the author.<br />The &quot;Quenta Silmarillion&quot; text in the published SILMARILLION is based mostly on a mid-1930s manuscript referred to throughout THE HISTORY OF MIDDLE-EARTH as QS.  Christopher stipulated in THE LOST ROAD AND OTHER WRITINGS (Vol. V of THE HISTORY OF MIDDLE-EARTH, pp.199-201) that QS actually consists of two texts: one typed, one hand-written.  JRRT made corrections to the typed QS text in two phases: first in late 1937, and then about 14 years later in 1951.  QS ends just before the tale of Beren and Luthien.<br />There are also supplemental texts, which Christopher refers to as QS(A)-QS(E), which were composed in the 1930s.  QS(E) was the last pre-LoTR addendum that JRRT made to QS. (LOST ROAD, pp. 292-5,323).  Christopher says his father abandoned work on the QS manuscripts when he began working on THE LORD OF THE RINGS.<br />On page 173 of THE WAR OF THE JEWELS Christopher says he based the second half of the published &quot;Quenta Silmarillion&quot; on three texts: QS, LQ 1, and LQ 2.  In the Foreword to MORGOTH'S RING (Vol. Xof THE HISTORY OF MIDDLE-EARTH), Christopher says &quot;it seems not to have been until the end of the 1950s that [JRRT] turned again seriously to the SILMARILLION narrative...&quot; (p. viii).  The Foreword continues to say that &quot;much had changed since...the publication of THE LORD OF THE RINGS&quot; and &quot;before [JRRT] could prepare a new and final SILMARILLION he must satisfy the requirements of a coherent theological and metaphysical system, rendered now more complex in its presentation by the supposition of obscure and conflicting elements in its roots and its tradition.&quot; (Ibid.)<br />On 141, Christopher explains that, in the first phase of the 1950s work on THE SILMARILLION, JRRT merely wrote some corrections on the 1930s texts and then had them typed.  This period (1951-2) produced the LQ 1 text.  Christopher uses a letter his father wrote in 1957 to argue that LQ 2 was probably begun in 1958.  He suggests that &quot;Annals of Aman&quot; may also date to 1958.  The second phase of work on THE SILMARILLION commenced after these texts were finished (MR, p. 142-3).  The Grey Annals text GA 2 is part of phase two.  In the Foreword to THE WAR OF THE JEWELS (Vol. XI of THE HISTORY OF MIDDLE-EARTH), Christopher writes &quot;there is some evidence that the GREY ANNALS followed the ANNALS OF AMAN (in its primary form), but the two works were, I feel certain, closely associated in time of composition.  For the structure of the history of Beleriand the GREY ANNALS constitutes the primary text, and although much of the latter part of the work was used in the published SILMARILLION with little change I give it in full.  This is really essential on practical grounds, but is also in keeping with my intention in this 'History', in which I have traced the development of the Matter of the Elder Days from its beginning to its end within the compass of my father's actual writings: from this point of view the published work is not its end, and [he excluded his father's later writing]&quot;.<br />Hence, the Grey Annals proved to be JRRT's last word on the history of Beleriand.  There are no later texts.  But the specific passage in question, published in THE SILMARILLION, was not written by J.R.R. Tolkien at all.  On page 238 of THE WAR OF THE JEWELS, Christopher wrote: &quot;We now come to Chapter 11 in QS, given in V.279-89.  The text was not much emended on the manuscript, and I give such changes as were made in the form of notes referenced to the numbered paragraphs in Vol. V.&quot;<br />He notes a change of name for Glaurung from Glomund, a name also noted as changed in the &quot;Annals&quot; text on page 180.  If the reader looks no further than this, it would seem that the QS text from the 1930s served as the basis for the published SILMARILLION.  But this text was not used by Christopher Tolkien.  The published SILMARILLION text is most likely Christopher's own composition.  He offers no explanation of where it came from.  It differs substantially from the QS text, which has several variant names and is longer than the published text.  The published paragraph also differs from the much later Grey Annals text.<br />Therefore, since there is no authority for the paragraph Christopher chose to publish in THE SILMARILLION, and since the QS manuscript was not substantively revised for the chapter concerning the ruin of Beleriand, there is no basis for assuming that the 1930s text represents the latest thoughts JRRT had on the much-disputed Balrogs passage.  And I stand by what I have written in both VISUALIZING MIDDLE-EARTH and UNDERSTANDING MIDDLE-EARTH.	2004-06-06
US	50125958	R1T7L4EIE2G2BK	0140513353	767670759	The Penguin Historical Atlas of Ancient Greece	Books	5	14	16	N	N	An excellent introduction to ancient Greece	People lose interest in history quickly if they cannot visualize the world of the past.  Penguin's historical atlas series brings the past to life in vibrant color with maps, illustrations, and photographs of historical sites and artifacts.  The book is not intended for scholarly research.  Rather, it's intended to give an overview of Greek history through the centuries from the ages of Cretan and Mycenean domination over the eastern Mediterranean to the triumph of Rome over her elder Greek sibling states.  The reader is introduced to the variety of Greek societies and leaders who shaped the first European civilization.  Some long-standing myths are disposed of, and the language is concise yet readable.  This is a good resource for any middle or high school student, and is an excellent quick reference for any college student who has to wade through dry, unillustrated texts.	2001-09-29
US	50125958	R22RGKGQ3A4160	0395535166	254771100	The Atlas of Middle-Earth	Books	2	306	423	N	N	Fonstad's numerous errors have NOT been corrected	This book remains, as I noted in my March 15 review (based on an earlier edition), the best available cartographical resource for Tolkien's world available, other than Christopher Tolkien's maps. Unfortunately, this book simply doesn't depict Tolkien's Middle-earth with any appreciable degree of accuracy.<br />All they did was slap a new cover on a work which is now out-of-date.  The practice of reissuing popular Tolkien books and tertiary resources like Fonstad's Atlas of Middle-earth is to be expected, of course, since Peter Jackson's movies are going to drive Tolkien-mania to frenzied heights never before seen.<br />What is good about this book is the fact that Fonstad makes an effort to chart everything in the stories.   You have a quick reference which conveys an idea of who went where, when.<br />But don't accord this book any real authority.  You have to double-check everything Fonstad does in order to see where the errors are.  Some of the worst examples are her dual locations for Rhosgobel (the placement south of the Old Forest Road is the correct one, according to &quot;The Ring Goes South&quot; in The Fellowship of the Ring), the placement of Belegost south of the Gulf of Lune (Tolkien said it was at about the same latitude as Lake Nenuial in Unfinished Tales), and her shaving 100 miles off the width of Eriador.  The gross error concerning Eriador's width affects all her calculations, including the lengths of journeys for Frodo and Bilbo.<br />Movements for peoples in the First Age are also inaccurate.  The Easterlings entered Beleriand in three waves.  The Folk of Ulfang crossed the Ered Luin in the path of the Edain, but the Folk of Bor and later Easterlings passed north around the Ered Luin.  This information was published in The War of the Jewels, which Fonstad did not use as a resource.  In the Second Age, she ignores Unfinished Tales completely and places Thranduil (the son of Oropher) in northern Greenwood, instead of in the southern part of the forest.<br />Her depiction of Dale's borders in the Third Age is grossly inaccurate, and Druwaith Iaur is placed to the north of where Christopher Tolkien indicates it should be on his map.  Many of these errors, by themselves, are small things.  But nearly every map has one or more problems with it.  In some cases it's obvious Fonstad's research was superceded by later books she didn't have access to.  But some of the gaffes are simply inexplicable.  It was my sincere hope the errors would be corrected in this edition.  But apparently the publisher just felt a new cover would hide the problems.<br />Is the book worth buying?  Sure.  Anyone who wants a quick visual reference to Middle-earth will find this volume invaluable.  But if you're planning to use it to win trivia contests or argue with your friends over Tolkien minutiae, pray the other people don't refer to the original books.<br />Tolkien readers need a new cartographical reference.  Hopefully, one will come along some day that doesn't look this bad.	2001-06-03
US	50125958	RZ195USP4Y1YL	0140250743	606168371	The Celts: Second Edition (Penguin History)	Books	3	48	54	N	N	A good introduction, but a bit dated	Nora Chadwick is probably cited by every book on the Celts published since 1970.  A lot of work has been done since then in archaeology and linguistics.  Chadwick's view of the Celts is therefore a bit dated.  She doesn't even examine Celtic architecture and technology in very great detail.  It is now generally accepted that the Celts had a profound impact upon Roman technology and culture.  The Romans didn't simply evict the Celts, but rather absorbed entire populations in Italy, Spain, Gaul, and Britain.  Each absorption brought something new to the mixture.  Each absorption drained the rich world of Celtic development of further resources.  And current research shows that Chadwick's treatment of the Romans in the British isles is quite inadequate.<br />This book is best considered as an introduction to the profound reconsiderations of Celtic history and prehistory which the late 20th century produced.  Modern scholarship often attempts to extend Chadwick's work, but sometimes invalidates it.  Her book was profound and evocative in its day, but it is now little more than a testimonial to the state of Celtic research a generation ago.	2001-05-18
US	50125958	R3DVU0TUFLBCMU	061812764X	396726984	J.R.R. Tolkien: Author of the Century	Books	3	45	59	N	N	The Road to Middle-earth was better	When Tom Shippey's publisher suggested he update his Road To Middle-earth in anticipation of the upcoming Peter Jackson movies, he is reported to have said, &quot;I cannot possibly think of anything more to say.&quot;<br />Well, he managed to squeeze out a new book nonetheless.  Much of the material will seem very familiar to anyone who has read The Road To Middle-earth.  Shippey doesn't cover any new theoretical ground.  He still hammers away at the Anglo-Saxonist point-of-view, either disregarding Tolkien's non-Anglo-Saxon influences (such as the Bible, Homer, and some of the Greek dramas) or downplaying their significance.<br />On the other hand, no one seems better qualified to explore the world of Tolkien's Anglo-Saxon and Medieval influences than Tom Shippey.  If you didn't get enough of the Old English and northern European roots in the first book, he brings out the tweezers and really digs for miniscule and obscure references in this work.<br />But there is an imbalance, in my opinion.  For all their genius, The Hobbit and The Lord of the Rings are really just stories that Tolkien set out to tell as amusements.  There are complexities to be found in The Lord of the Rings which are lacking in The Hobbit.  And yet, The Silmarillion is &quot;the work of [Tolkien's] heart&quot;, as Shippey himself puts it.  Even so, Shippey barely examines The Silmarillion.  Perhaps that is because The Silmarillion doesn't offer as much to mine in the Anglo-Saxon arena as The Lord of the Rings.  Whereas Tolkien borrowed many English place-names for Third Age Middle-earth, Beleriand depends upon a mostly Sindarin nomenclature.  At best, Shippey only strikes out to &quot;drive some shafts&quot; into The Silmarillion, and he focuses on the other two books.<br />Unfortunately, the haste with which Shippey turned out the analysis is revealed in a number of erroneous references.  Many first-year Tolkien students would easily pick out the gaffes.  Coming from one of the world's leading Tolkien scholars, they are a bit embarrassing.  The book, though longer than The Road to Middle-earth, therefore looks almost as unfinished as Tolkien's mythology.  There are still far worse books out there, but Shippey has done better.  Perhaps he is getting a little burned out and really didn't have much more to say after all.Tolkien scholars, they are a bit embarrassing.  The book, though longer than The Road to Middle-earth, therefore looks almost as unfinished as Tolkien's mythology.  There are still far worse books out there, but Shippey has done better.  Perhaps he is getting a little burned out and really didn't have much more to say after all.	2001-05-18
US	50125958	R3HYJ708AMOG1J	0808591185	343640191	The Forgotten Door (Turtleback School & Library Binding Edition)	Books	5	32	33	N	N	This is a fantastic introduction to speculative fiction	The Forgotten Door has to be one of the very first SF books I ever read.  I still have my copy, an old paperback from the 1960s or 1970s.  I used to read this book over and over again when I was a kid.  It had drama, suspense, a sense of wonder, mystery.  All the stuff that would keep a kid on the edge of his (or her) chair, turning the page.  In fact, it was a great book to read late at night when I was supposed to be sleeping.  I used up a few flashlights on this one.<br />Alexander Key's book should be considered one of the all-time best fantasy/science fiction novels for kids (it's not really a genre-specific story).  Heck, I even recommend it for adults.  That old paperback is one book I just can't bring myself to part with.	2001-03-19
US	50125958	R22VB897DIOZUR	0261102753	9024120	The Road to Middle-Earth (How J.R.R. Tolkien Created a New Mythology)	Books	4	68	77	N	N	A solid introduction to Tolkien literary analysis	I only have one complaint about The Road to Middle-earth and that is that Shippey doesn't concede an inch to Tolkien's non-Anglo-Saxon influences.  The only real flaw in the book is the fact that the reader can easily be led to believe that everything Tolkien put into The Lord of the Rings was drawn from something in Anglo-Saxon history or legend.<br />As long as people keep an open mind, however, The Road to Middle-earth sheds light on some of the most obscure details and references in Tolkien's work.  Shippey admits in the foreword he may be stepping across the line, since Tolkien himself warned the author against reading too much into anything.  But the ride is fun and in Shippey's whirlwind fashion the reader is treated to a torrent of near-mystical adulation for one of the 20th century's greatest authors.<br />The writing is straight-forward and well within the reach of most readers.  One of the pitfalls of literary scholarship which Shippey avoids is an overdependence upon jargon.  He knows his audience wants to read more about Middle-earth and less about what fancy words critics are most apt to use.<br />And despite Shippey's own tendency to accuse Tolkien of deception, he pounces with delightful vengeance and righteous anger upon many a critic who has sought to lay low the immensity of Tolkien's creation.  One needn't agree with everything Shippey writes in order to appreciate the passion he has for Middle-earth, or the intense loyalty the writer feels toward Tolkien himself.<br />Of all the Tolkien commentators who have ever dared put pen to paper, T. A. Shippey is most probably the best qualified (after Christopher Tolkien) to say anything at all concerning how Tolkien may have viewed his creation, or what Tolkien might have intended to say between the lines.	2001-03-16
US	50125958	R2GK18SSJHTJ0M	0395535166	254771100	The Atlas of Middle-Earth	Books	2	57	100	N	N	Well, there is currently nothing better...	Every time someone mentions Fonstad's atlas to me I start to warn them about the numerous errors in the book.  &quot;Numerous errors?  Can you provide a list?&quot; I am asked.  I don't have a complete list.  There are so many errors that compiling a list becomes fatiguing.<br />So let me begin by pointing out what I like about the book, and why I would recommend that people buy it.  Then I'll conclude with a partial list of the problems.<br />First of all, the cartographic style is a nice mixture of fantasy artwork and commercial mapping techniques.  One gets the sense that Fonstad put some time into studying this imaginary geography.  And though many of the features are described in text, Tolkien himself didn't provide many maps to work from.  As interpretations go, this atlas could have been much worse.<br />I also like the use of screens to imply the general size of political domains, regions of influence, and distributions of languages and peoples.  The liberal use of arrows and guidelines to indicate movements of peoples and armies also helps tremendously.  And the many 3-D perspectives help to bring the geography to life.<br />So, what's wrong with the book?  One of the more serious problems is Fonstad's tendency to mix material from different periods of Tolkien's life.  &quot;Middle-earth&quot;, the world of The Lord of the Rings, did not exist until Tolkien wrote The Lord of the Rings.  So one of Fonstad's worst errors is her use of The Book of Lost Tales for documenting some of the regions.  In fact, as fascinating as Tolkien's early maps of Arda (published in The Shaping of Middle-earth) may be, they have no relevance to The Lord of the Rings.  Only one of those maps even uses the name &quot;Middle-earth&quot;.<br />So what is a cartographer to do?  Fonstad either cannot distinguish between the vastly different worlds which represent separate periods of literary creation in Tolkien's work, or else she has made the unforgivable decision to mislead her readers by implying it's all closely interconnected.  The geography of Middle-earth rightly begins with the map of Wilderland in The Hobbit, and from there it expanded outward under Tolkien's hand to gradually include remnants of the old Beleriand geography.  She should have conceded that she was introducing a major fudge in her research.<br />In terms of details, Fonstad also gets a lot of things just plain wrong.  She managed to shave 100 miles off the width of Eriador.  Is that significant?  It is if you want to see where Aragorn's people lived.  It is also significant to any attempt to calculate the distances covered by Frodo and Bilbo (Fonstad's journey maps are wildly inaccurate because of her error).  She has moved Belegost far to the south of where it should be, Rhosgobel is given two separate locations, Numenor is in the wrong location, the boundaries for Dale are wrong, the migration paths for the Easterlings of Beleriand are wrong, the Noldor did not retreat from Angband as she indicates, etc., etc.<br />The list of errors, many of them significant, is simply too long.<br />Is the book worth buying?  Well, there is nothing better out there.  I wish there were.  Tolkien fans deserve better than this.  Maybe the new edition will correct the old flaws.  I hope so.	2001-03-16
US	50125958	R2ZRRXQIQUQ25	0822012863	612245152	The Lord of the Rings and The Hobbit (Cliffs Notes)	Books	1	5	12	N	N	Pray your instructor hasn't actually read Lord of the Rings	Some people are too gentle in describing this booklet.  Perhaps they hope lazy students who rely upon Cliff's Notes will get what they deserve: a failing grade.<br />You might get a better idea of what The Lord of the Rings is about by reading the National Lampoon parody, Bored of the Rings.  The first time I looked through this booklet I was astounded that anyone could put any faith in it.<br />To any English Lit. students who need to do a paper on Tolkien, I'll share with you the advice one of my favorite English professors gave to one of my American Lit. classes (but it's just as applicable): &quot;Y'all need to learn the fine art of skimmin'!&quot;  Dr. Hinton, that was great advice.  May it guide new generations of students away from Cliffs Notes.	2000-12-29
US	50125958	R4VF91J1X746C	0395489326	669379389	The Lord of the Rings	Books	5	20	20	N	N	The three-volume 1988 text is the most accurate	Sometimes called the &quot;Douglas Anderson&quot; edition, the 1987/1988 three-volume printing of The Lord of the Rings incorporates the final corrections Tolkien made to the book.  No previous edition includes all the corrections.<br />Unfortunately, Houghton Mifflin's book production quality has declined through the years and these books are as liable to fall apart with normal usage as not.  But any reader who wants the most accurate representation of Tolkien's masterpiece needs this edition.  Not even the Alan Lee illustrated Centenniel edition incorporates the final textual changes.<br />The value of owning the &quot;most faithful text&quot; really depends on whether you want to know if a Silmaril was Luthien's bride-price or bride-piece (the former is the correct term, though many editions say bride-price).<br />When I am in doubt about what Tolkien actually intended to say for any Second Edition passage, I turn to the Douglas Anderson printing.  It is a necessary tool for any Tolkien researcher.	2000-12-29
US	50125958	R3UMIFHYX69J1U	0395247586	873606220	The Road Goes Ever On: A Song Cycle	Books	4	31	35	N	N	There is more than music in this book	The Road Goes Ever On was first published in the early 1960s, when Tolkien was still answering a great deal of fan mail asking questions about Middle-earth.  There was so much more he wanted  to tell his reading audience that he sometimes leaped at the chance to give them a little more about his Elves.<br />The Road Goes Ever On thus provides a glimpse of Elven history and mysticism found nowhere else.  Linguists have also perused the analysis of the poems Tolkien provided.  There is something for everyone in this volume.	2000-12-29
US	50125958	R2CFC9MMQOOE4F	0395476909	669379389	The Annotated Hobbit: The Hobbit, or, There and back again	Books	5	18	21	N	N	This is the best Hobbit edition	I would even give this edition to first-time readers, who will no doubt have many questions that Anderson attempts to answer.  All the various illustrations will no doubt interest younger readers as well.<br />Anderson does perpetuate a couple of myths (such as the notion that Tolkien's Elves had pointed ears) but his research is generally regarded as some of the best in the world and that is well-deserved praise.  The book includes all the changes Tolkien ever made to The Hobbit in an appendix which is non-intrusive.  There is also an extensive bibliography for further reading.<br />But maybe the best reason to buy the book (if/when it is printed again) is its size.  It's a nice, big cuddly book that is easy for an adult to hold, especially if you're reading to a child in your lap or beside you.  The book also includes a biographical section on Tolkien that is interesting though short.	2000-12-29
US	50125958	R359ON5ZSXYS15	0345339304	942991790	Synthetic Men of Mars (Martian Tales of Edgar Rice Burroughs)	Books	5	13	13	N	N	One of the top three books in the series	The incomparable Dejah Thoris is injured and only the dangerous scientist Ras Thavas (The Master Mind of Mars) can save her life.  So John Carter, the Warlord of Barsoom, sets out with a single companion, Vor Daj, to bring Thavas back from the Toonolian Marsh in time to operate on the dying princess.<br />Alas!  Nothing goes right, and Carter and Daj are forced to make the most difficult choices of their lives.  All Barsoom is threatened by Thavas' latest mad scheme, and it falls to Vor Daj to keep a lid on things until Carter can bring all his power to bear against the threat.  In one of the best race-against-time stories ever written, the reader is forced to turn page after page to keep pace with all the setbacks, double-crosses, and unbelievable strokes of good fortune.<br />Along the way, the author pokes a little fun at a few long-cherished social conventions and hooty-tooty groups.  But the most resounding comment of all is the statement that true friendship knows no boundaries, and that love is solidly based in friendship.  This is simply a great and thoroughly enjoyable book to read.	2000-12-16
US	50125958	R21AH9LY6QU12I	9993816868	604112548	Llana of Gathol	Books	4	1	1	N	N	The last but one of a great series	John Carter discovers an incredible secret while exploring the long abandoned city of Horz, believed by many to be the most ancient ruined city on Barsoom: Orovars, the ancient race of white-skinned Barsoomians, still live outside of the city of Lothar!<br />But while Carter and his newfound friend Pan Dan Chee escape from the secretive Orovarian society, they discover Llana of Gathol, no other than Carter's own grand-daughter.  She is fleing from Hin Abtol, another power-mad Jeddak (king) who has decided to unite Barsoom under his rule.  Carter, Llana, and Pan Dan Chee take on Hin Abtol and his might war machine!<br />This story, broken down into four parts for serialization, is the last full adventure for John Carter.  It comes across as a bit formulaic for anyone familiar with the earlier stories in the series but it's still a strong and compelling action/adventure yarn in its own right.	2000-12-16
US	50125958	R23F1LGMC3VX5N	0802841589	160363258	The Druids	Books	5	82	87	N	N	A good introduction to the Druidic controversies	Peter Berresford Ellis is a popular historian, not an academic historian.  The primary difference between popular and academic historians is that they write for different audiences.  Ellis' work has been criticized for lacking the kind of detailed references that a peer-reviewed book or article would include.  The reader must guess where the citations and allusions may be researched and accept the citations and translations as accurate.<br />Hence, you're not likely to find many historians recommending an Ellis book to their students.  But students who have read Ellis will have a very clear idea of what materials to look for.  And he does a very good job of challenging long-standing interpretations which have always been flimsy or weak at best.  Unfortunately for him, the science of historical analysis requires accountability and Ellis refuses to be accountable.  He takes his case to the popular audience and hopes to influence the broader imagination.<br />That's all well and good, but some of his research has been challenged and Ellis has had to make at least one major retraction in his career.  He is a Celto-centric writer and people of Celtic heritage should be glad to know there is still a dedicated flag-waver around.  But in the end, no matter how well he writes, no matter how thorough his research, Ellis must be regarded only as a popular historian.  In that respect, he is one of the finest popular historians I've had the pleasure to read.	2000-12-16
US	50125958	RO2HKVE31PNUS	0520069838	831807791	History of the Goths	Books	5	21	22	N	N	One of the premier works on Gothic history	Wolfram takes on a difficult subject, the history of a people whose origins are crusted over with legends and generations of archaeological interpretations.  Some of his conclusions have been challenged but Wolfram makes a solid case for many of his interpretations.  His survey of Gothic history and culture is a landmark in Gothic research.<br />The book is intended for academics and therefore includes numerous citations and end-notes and footnotes.  If the reader can ignore all the note references, the narrative flows well enough.  Wolfram's detailed analysis does dispell a few nationalistic myths, but he replaces them with a thorough retelling of Gothic history.  Most reference works about ancient Germanic peoples tend to speak of the Goths in an offhand manner.  But they left a lasting imprint on several parts of Europe and Asia, even if we can no longer feel their presence today.  Wolfram does a good job of removing the Goths from legend and putting them back into history.	2000-12-16
US	50125958	R1XDEUJM7869CC	9994442562	249061612	Fighting Man of Mars	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Power corrupts, even on Barsoom	A Fighting Man of Mars tells the story of Tan Hadron, a soldier of Helium who takes on the vicious Tul Axtar, a cowardly but power-mad Jeddak who has assembled the largest army Barsoom has ever seen.  Caught between them is the beautiful but pretentious Sonoma Tora.  Hadron finds a better companion in the brave and daring Tavia, an escaped slave girl who will do whatever it takes to avoid going back to the life she once knew.<br />One of the great things about this book is the fact that Burroughs believes strongly in character growth.  But he also pioneered the strong female character in the adventure story format.  There are always damsels in distress, but as the Barsoom series progresses the women become more active and determinate, equals or near-equals with the men.  What is most astonishing is that Burroughs achieves this compelling parity without destroying the social fabric to which he introduced the reader in the earlier Barsoom novels.<br />All Barsoom hangs in the balance as Tul Axtar's plan for world conquest nears completion.  And Axtar must act quickly as it requires immense resources to feed so many hungry warriors.  The alternative is nearly unthinkable.	2000-12-16
US	50125958	R3RTJC8I831PUD	1891595520	527489366	The Chessmen of Mars	Books	5	4	4	N	N	If I could give this book six stars, I would do it!	More stories followed after this one in the Barsoom series but with one exception none of them really came close to achieving the incredible feat of tale-weaving that Chessmen of Mars pulls off.  Thuvia was the first fully capable of Burroughs' Barsoomian heroines, but Tara of Helium despite her petulant and child-like attitude comes across as one of the strongest and most winning heroines of early 20th century fiction.<br />She is equally matched by the courageous and totally dedicated Gahan of Gathol, a jed (prince) from a remote land who falls madly in love with Tara and throws all away to win her love.  Tara and Gahan traverse half of Barsoom as they seek to win their way back to Helium, and all the while he poses as a lowly panthan (mercenary) because the haughty Tara has so many forgotten suitors she cannot even recognize him.<br />The most imaginitive parts of the story take place in the land of the Kaldanes, bodiless heads which worship only intellect, and in the barbaric land of Manator.  The Manatorians prey upon their neighbors, including Gahan's own land of Gathol.  Tara's cold facade of indifference slowly melts away as Gahan braves peril after peril to save her from the clutches on powerful warlords, and all the while he believes she wants nothing to do with him.<br />The best scene in the book comes when Gahan takes on one of the greatest swordsmen in Manator by playing a deadly game of Martian chess for possession of the princess of Helium.  And once the action begins in the arena, it doesn't stop until the last page.  By the time Tara confesses her true feelings, the reader is assured that Gahan is really getting a prize and not a pouty spoiled princess.  Both characters show a lot of growth and resourcefulness in this story.  It's well worth the money in any format.	2000-12-16
US	50125958	RJUMPVAYFDFKR	9993335525	597857831	Swords of Mars	Books	4	0	0	N	N	How many worlds can one man tame?	John Carter sets out to destroy the assassin guilds of Barsoom, which have plagued even the mightiest nations for centuries.  But along the way he stumbles into the plans of Fal Sivas, a devious scientist with his own agenda.  Little does Carter realize he is in for the ride of his life, and before it's all over he'll forge an alliance with Gar Nal, one of the worst assassins!<br />The only twist more bizarre than Carter's unforeseen alliance is the strange quirk which brings him to an entirely new world he never realized existed before, even though he had looked upon it countless times.	2000-12-16
US	50125958	RY5VQW2VWUCUY	0345331389	286299382	A Princess of Mars	Books	5	5	5	N	N	I wish they would write them like this one!	Who could have imagined what lay in store for the literary world when Edgar Rice Burrougs first sold A Princess of Mars.  It's been almost 90 years since then and he helped turn the entertainment world upside down.  Maybe people think of Tarzan first when ERB's name is mentioned, but it was John Carter of Mars who sent generations of avid fans roaming the wilds of Barsoom in the shadow of Carter, the greatest swordsman of all time.<br />Princess of Mars has the unenviable task of introducing the reader not only to the hero but also to the world of Barsoom.  Everything must be explained and ERB does an extraordinary job of providing just enough details to keep the story flowing and whetting the readers' appetites for more.<br />The only complaint a modern reader might have about the book is that the girl, Dejah Thoris, is a bit ornamental.  And yet 90 years ago she was a breath-taking step into the future for literary audiences.  ERB's light sensuality lent an air of sophistication to his writing which escapes most authors today, many of whom confuse sex scenes with entertainment and plotting.  But the real beauty of the classic ERBian woman is that she has feelings and no matter how hard she tries to mask them she inevitably gives in to love provided the right suitor comes along.  Many a modern Romance novelist must have secretly studied under this master's steady hand.	2000-12-16
US	50125958	R19E3NOHO6O5CZ	0345324536	73961624	The Warlord of Mars	Books	5	1	2	N	N	A little something for everyone	Edgar Rice Burroughs covers vast expanses of Barsoomian territory in John Carter's whirlwind pursuit of his beloved Dejah Thoris.  The gentle pokes in the eye at religion, evolution, science, and even racism continue but do not impede the readability of the story.  Burroughs demonstrates his superb grasp of story-telling and the construction of adventure settings with a flair unsurpassed by any other writer of the 20th century.<br />Carter finds himself charging headline into a myterious northern world where ancient and legendary yellow men have survived in the harshest Barsoomian environment imaginable.  Coincidentally, in classic Burroughsian fashion, Carter uncovers an incredible weapon which could destroy the fragile alliance of Barsoomian nations he has assembled in his long battle with the evil Therns.<br />The first three books of the John Carter series (A Princess of Mars, The Gods of Mars, and The Warlord of Mars) foreshadow the most breath-taking adventures that role-playing gamers could imagine three generations after ERB wrote these stories.  These books also provide a glimpse into one of the most amazing and detailed worlds of fantasy and space opera ever to see publication.  It's hard to imagine how anyone who loves action adventure, swashbuckling stories could go wrong in purchasing these books.	2000-12-16
US	50125958	R7ZDJFGHOENCN	0345324390	355303983	The Gods of Mars (John Carter of Mars)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	This one blew me away	People notice how ERB poked fun at religion in this book, but he ripped racism to shreds and made the reader laugh, cry, and want to visit Mars with a sword in one hand and a pistol in the other.  Not even the evolutionists escaped the expert wit and satire of this masterful and entertaining epic story.<br />John Carter returns to his beloved Barsoom ten years later, but instead of finding himself in Helium with Dejah Thoris he instead awakens in the lost Valley Dor, the Barsoomian heaven.  But in reality it's a far cry from heaven and Carter turns a world upside with his challenging revelations.<br />The real hero of the story, however, is Dator Xodar, a prince of the black-skinned First Born of Barsoom, the highest race on the planet.  The First Born prey upon the white-skinned Therns, who in turn prey upon the nations of the Red and Yellow men of Barsoom.  As Xodar learns from Carter that all men should be equal, Carter learns from Xodar that even the most feared Barsoomians can be a truly noble people.	2000-12-16
US	50125958	R1Q4TTXLGRTK7C	0345334248	589343272	The Master Mind of Mars: (#6) (Martian Tales of Edgar Rice Burroughs, No 6)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Introduces one of the best anti-villains in SF &amp; F	Ulysses Paxton proves that John Carter is not as unique as the reader was led to believe.  Mortally wounded on a World War I battlefield, Paxton is transported to Barsoom much like Carter was decades before.  His sojourn on the red planet starts out more humbly, as Paxton fidns himself apprenticed to Ras Thavas, arguably the greatest scientist of the day.<br />ERB dons his lecturer persona once again as he unwinds an intriguing story about the perils of allowing science and political power to proceed in all directions unchecked.  Knowledge gained irresponsibly leads to irresponsible actions.  Paxton struggles to transport the moral lessons he has learned from the horrors of World War I to the almost savage and near-mercenary social hierarchy he finds himself trapped in on Barsoom.<br />The best elements of the story are undoubtedly the bizarre twists and turns which unsettle the hero and force him to fall back on his courage and ingenuity.	2000-12-16
US	50125958	R2UHIHUQULA6XR	9991281010	355303983	John Carter of Mars	Books	3	21	26	N	N	A sad farewell to a great adventure series	Other reviews appear to be speaking of the first book in the series, A Princess of Mars.  John Carter of Mars is the 11th and last book of the Barsoomian adventure stories.  In fact, this book is a combination of two stories: &quot;The Giant of Mars&quot;, actually written by John Coleman Burroughs, and &quot;The Skeleton Men of Jupiter&quot;, the first of a four-part series that was never finished.<br />&quot;Giant of Mars&quot; has long confused ERB fans, many of whom have wondered whether he actually wrote this story.  The truth has been circulated for years but somehow doubt and literary legend seem to overwhelm it.  John Coleman Burroughs did indeed write this story, and he admitted as much publicly.<br />&quot;The Skeleton Men of Jupiter&quot; is pure ERB space opera and it restores Barsoom's chapion to his former glory.  This tale had the potential to become one of the all-time greatest ERB adventures, but he never wrote more than the first of four installments.  Our hero resolves a major conflict and the reader is not left wondering if John Carter and Dejah Thoris survive, but their adventure is nonetheless incomplete.<br />Fans eager to read more about Carter's adventures need to get this book, but let the reader beware, it can only be unsatisfying.  One is left with a sense of wonder, for Burroughs is said to have been burned out near the end of his life, but there is much about this story which is fresh and engrossing.	2000-12-16
US	50125958	R6AEJ4OD32XIR	1891595512	527489366	Thuvia, Maid of Mars	Books	4	3	3	N	N	To boldly go where no Barsoomian has gone before!	Sometimes I get the impression the John Carter books served as the blueprints for many Star Trek: The Original Series episodes.  You have a hero, a girl, and a lost and ancient civilization which threatens to engulf all known space (er, Barsoom) if someone doesn't do something FAST.<br />Thuvia, Maid of Mars, passes the torch from father to son as Carthoris, son of John Carter and Dejah Thoris, pursues the heart of the princess Thuvia.  To her secret shame Thuvia returns Carthoris' love, but she is already promised to another.  When a rival prince kidnaps Thuvia and frames Carthoris for the deed, the son of the Warlord of Mars sets out to rescue the woman he loves no matter what it will cost him.<br />Undoubtedly the most disturbing but tense part of the story falls in the city of Lothar, where Carthoris and Thuvia must do battle with ancient Barsoomians who possess incredible powers of the mind.  And the most unlikely hero of all turns out to be a fignment of a character's imagination.  This book is a good demonstration of how Burroughs' world of Barsoom was filled with its own stories, and not just a convenient backdrop for John Carter's adventures.	2000-12-16
US	50125958	R3JNC8MI18GR6Y	0517146487	22739731	The Tolkien Companion	Books	1	120	125	N	N	J.E.A. Tyler is one of the worst Tolkien commentators of all	There are three names Tolkien experts will immediately tell you to avoid: Ruth Noel, David Day, and J.E.A. Tyler.  Tyler's original Tolkien Companion was filled with so many errors of fact and blatant wild guesses he had to quickly rewrite almost the entire work after The Silmarillion was published.<br />Good Tolkien analysts don't reinvent Middle-earth the way Tyler, Noel, and Day are wont to do.  Although his style may be pleasant to read his research is highly suspect and he will probably never recover from the embarrassment his original Companion caused him.  Fans who want to know more about Middle-earth AS J.R.R. TOLKIEN ENVISIONED IT should stick to the Tolkien books.<br />Critical analyses which have been well-regarded (if not universally agreed with) come from more traditional commentators such as Carl Hostetter, Verlyn Fleiger, T.A. Shippey, Paul Kocher, Wayne Hammond, and Douglas Anderson.  These are well-respected scholars and researchers who may have their own priorities but nonetheless treat Tolkien and his world with greater respect than many others.<br />Although it doesn't cover anything published after The Silmarillion, Robert Foster's The Complete Guide to Middle-earth remains one of the all-time best Tolkien references.  You can find books by all these authors are still in print and available here on Amazon.	2000-12-15
US	50125958	R3OLG3ZAF9UXTS	0395324416	517898316	Unfinished Tales	Books	5	140	144	N	N	The next best thing to The Silmarillion	The Silmarillion raised so many questions that Tolkien fans almost felt cheated when the book came out in 1977.  Fortunately, Christopher Tolkien foresaw the readers' hunger for more material about Middle-earth would not be quenched and he promised in the foreword to publish some related material when time permitted.<br />What came next was Unfinished Tales, a less-than-satisfying collection of stories and notes about the heroes and kings of the three Ages.  But the disappointment didn't lay in the quality of the stories.  Rather, it was only their various states of incompleteness, even though some tales (like &quot;The Disaster of the Gladden Fields&quot;) were truly fully formed.<br />The book is most valuable to people who want to know more about the histories and heroes of Middle-earth.  People looking for Hobbit-lore will be disappointed.  The Letters of J.R.R. Tolkien reveals more about Hobbits than Unfinished Tales.  But there are exciting moments and awesome scenes, such as when Ulmo rises out of the sea before Tuor, and when Isildur realizes that the One Ring has betrayed him to his doom, which stand alongside the most memorable passages of The Hobbit, The Lord of the Rings, and The Silmarillion.<br />Unfinished Tales shows us Tolkien at his best when he was doing nothing more than just writing out his thoughts concerning various peoples and events only mentioned in The Lord of the Rings.	2000-12-14
US	50125958	R3B4CYGIY4DDJV	0395710413	954520348	The War of the Jewels: The Later Silmarillion, History of Middle-Earth, Part 2, Vol.11	Books	5	65	65	N	N	Christopher Tolkien unveils the truth about The Silmarillion	The War of the Jewels is one of the most misunderstood and underrated volumes in the History of Middle-earth series.  Although it is primarily a scholarly work which explains precisely how Christopher Tolkien brought together the various sources to produce the published Silmarillion, this book also opens up new vistas into First Age Middle-earth that readers never imagined could exist.<br />Casual readers will enjoy &quot;The Wanderings of Hurin&quot;, which Christopher has editorialized to some extent.  The story of what Hurin REALLY did after he left Morgoth's domain is an eye-opening experience, and it explains why the sons of Earendil and Elwing were the last heirs of the heroic chieftains of the Edain.  But &quot;The Wanderings of Hurin&quot; also gives us the only detailed view of the Folk of Haleth, the mysterious woodmen who figured so prominently in &quot;Narn i Chin Hurin&quot;, the tale of Turin Turambar.<br />Another fantastic gem lies between the covers of this book, however.  Accompanying the very scholarly essay &quot;Quendi and Eldar&quot; is a short Elvish nursery tale which provides the only account of how the Elves awoke at Cuivienen, and who the eldest Elves actually were.  Their names will surprise everyone.  &quot;Quendi and Eldar&quot; itself is filled with a great deal of historical and cultural information although it is primarily a linguistic work.  It may represent the last significant contribution Tolkien made to his mythology, even though he later changed his mind on a few details.	2000-12-14
US	50125958	R3N50Z2X6QLBRB	0345345061	265710099	The Tolkien Reader	Books	4	23	28	N	N	Contains a little something for everyone	Not really planned by Tolkien himself, A Tolkien Reader is more properly a Tolkien Sampler.  It combines two of his shorter books (The Adventures of Tom Bombadil and Farmer Giles of Ham) with other material Tolkien wrote through the years, including the dark and autobiographical allegory &quot;Leaf by Niggle&quot;.<br />Tolkien commentators usually hold out this book as a resource for his &quot;On Fairy-stories&quot; essay (actually the transcript of a lecture Tolkien delivered in the 1930s) and &quot;The Homecoming of Beorhtnoth Beorhthelm's Son&quot;.  Both works are of narrow appeal, however, as they require a minimal knowledge of some scholarly details on the reader's part.<br />&quot;On Fairy-stories&quot; and &quot;Leaf by Niggle&quot; were originally published as Tree and Leaf in 1964, but they don't really explain how Tolkien achieved The Lord of the Rings.  He admitted that the story took on a life of its own, and he ended up incorporating several disparate works into the new mythology he was creating.  LoTR fans who want to know more about Middle-earth will find the only relevant material is in The Adventures of Tom Bombadil, a collection of several poems (of which only the first two actually deal with Tom).  Tolkien included some explanatory notes.<br />The Bombadil book was originally composed and produced so Tolkien could present his beloved aging aunt with a special volume in the last year of her life.  She died only a few months after it was published.	2000-12-14
US	50125958	R3MTCI4H85V5ER	0395827604	102818835	The Peoples of Middle-Earth: The History of Middle-Earth, Vol. 12	Books	5	120	123	N	N	This isn't the end, it's the beginning	Christopher Tolkien takes the reader back to the years 1950-1952 when his father was preparing the appendices and prologue for The Lord of the Rings.  So much that had been written for publication was lost because the book was so big it simply couldn't all be used.  So the appendices we have today were created by condensing the material originally intended for publication.<br />What we learn from the lengthy source material is that Tolkien really did anticipate many fannish questions and tried to answer them.  A great deal of information concerning Hobbits, Elves, and the Edain (and Dunedain) was to be included.  The essay &quot;Of Dwarves and Men&quot; also provides a fantastic study of early Second Age culture in the lands beyond the Misty Mountains.  Unfinished Tales had led us to believe there was nothing more to be learned about the Second Age, but at the end of the History of Middle-earth series Christopher Tolkien unloaded a bombshell.<br />Peoples of Middle-earth also includes the previously unpublished opening pages for The New Shadow, the sequel J.R.R. Tolkien almost wrote to The Lord of the Rings.  It begins after Aragorn has died and hints at a dark plot to overthrow King Eldarion.  Sadly, Tolkien felt no passion for the story, which he deemed would be no better than a thriller.  So he abandoned it just as the first taint of evil arose.<br />Tolkien researchers will also find that &quot;The Shibboleth of Feanor&quot; sets out the final and complete genealogy for Finwe's descendants, and several accompanying essays explain minor details alluded to throughout the History of Middle-earth books.	2000-12-14
US	50125958	R1QQ9YAR0AYCTP	038532569X	327567945	Hercules, The Legendary Journeys: The Official Companion	Books	5	1	1	N	N	This is the best explanation of H:TLJ I've ever seen	Rob Weisbrot is a dedicated Hercules fan who set out to complete his own legendary journey: he wanted to write a book about the most innovative television show to hit the airwaves since Space: 1999 appeared in the 1970s.<br />A professional historian and teacher, Weisbrot's knowledge of research techniques and ancient mythology combined with his excellent writing skill and fannish interests to provide us with an enchanting tour of the history and universe of one Hercules: The Legendary Journeys.<br />Interviews with the stars and a detailed knowledge of the episodes provide Weisbrot with all the material he needs to keep the reader turning the pages.  The book covers only the first few seasons of what has been hailed as the most popular syndicated action/adventure show of all time.  Readers should urge Studios USA to ask Weisbrot to finish what he began.	2000-12-14
US	50125958	RSW7Y6EEHPQBN	0618056998	782764380	The Letters of J.R.R. Tolkien	Books	5	41	43	N	N	This is a must-own book for any Tolkien researcher	Ever wonder where those Tolkien know-it-alls get their information from?  This is one of the secret treasures we harbor.  The Letters of J.R.R. Tolkien reveals his inner thoughts concerning his own life, the world as he saw it, and the characters and events in his marvelous stories.<br />Time and time again I've turned to the Letters for inspiration and information on what Tolkien had to say about everything concerning Middle-earth, from the family secrets and scandals of the Tooks to how Aragorn would have ruled Arnor and Gondor in the Fourth Age.  Tolkien shared his private thoughts with a select group of fans who wrote to him in his lifetime, and with his friends and close relatives.  These letters are a rare glimpse into his candor, wit, and values.<br />Many of the questions that Tolkien readers form today when they first pick up his books were shared by their predecessors in the 1930s and 1950s when The Hobbit and The Lord of the Rings were first published.  His answers to fan questions are as fresh and informative to the 100th-time reader as to the 1st time reader.	2000-12-14
US	50125958	R3C2YD1UT87KO5	0618083618	442985927	J.R.R. Tolkien: Artist and Illustrator	Books	5	35	35	N	N	See Middle-earth the way Tolkien saw it	Wayne Hammond is one of the top Tolkien scholars in the world, and in J.R.R. Tolkien: Artist and Illustrator he and his wife Christina Scull prove why he is so well-regarded.  The research and analysis of the many drawings and paintings Tolkien left behind is of the highest quality.<br />The commentaries on the pictures, the selection of which is the broadest of any publication featuring Tolkien's artwork, provide a clear and thorough explanation of how and when the pictures were created.  The context thus provided enables other Tolkien researchers to examine the evolving landscape of Middle-earth as no other source text does.<br />When fans ask if Tolkien ever envisioned certain things clearly, they need only turn to this book to see that indeed he did.  J.R.R. Tolkien was one of the few authors with the talent to actually illusrtrate his own characters and worlds.  The experience of seeing all these images in one volume is exhilarating.  It's almost like a long lost Tolkien book had been found in some dusty archive.	2000-12-14
US	50125958	R2CRK5S4SW6F1B	0618057021	551242033	J.R.R. Tolkien: A Biography	Books	4	18	20	N	N	Charge 'em and they scatter!	Tolkien readers who want to know more about the man behind The Hobbit and The Lord of the Rings need look no further than Humphrey Carpenter's thorough biography.  Carpenter dispells many myths concerning Tolkien's early life and values, but more importantly shows that the famous author lived a full life even though enduring loss and hardship through two world wars.<br />Some of Tolkien's private correspondence, shared by his family, is published only in this book, and it reveals how profoundly the man was affected by the people with whom he became close.  He was literally robbed of an entire generation of friends by the first world war, and the experience resonated throughout the remainder of his life.<br />The most poignant moments in Tolkien's life bear a strong resemblance to the moments in his heroes' lives when they turned dark days around and moved out into the full sunlight.  One almost gets the feeling that Tolkien's achievements overshadowed those of his characters.  He was a magical man in many ways, and must have eaten a piece of cake with a star embedded in it when he was a child.	2000-12-14
US	50125958	R3SSPCPI47GRW7	0345324366	972041663	The Complete Guide to Middle-Earth: From the Hobbit to the Silmarillion	Books	5	67	71	N	N	This is the all-time best Tolkien resource	I feel a bit of nostalgia whenever I open this book because it takes me back more than twenty years to when I was first beginning to study Tolkien's world.  Robert Foster's glossary is now sadly outdated because so many informative books have been published by Christopher Tolkien, but none of the tertiary sources written by other Tolkien researchers even come close to Foster's dedicated achievement.<br />Unlike some early Tolkien indexers, Foster usually refrains from mixing his opinions with the facts he is reporting.  His occasional guesses and interpretations may be wrong but given the information available when the book was written they are solid and well-considered.  Many more recent books have contained unforgivably egregious errors because those later authors had access to material Foster didn't.<br />The sources that Foster covers include some of Tolkien's private correspondence, and the research has been vindicated by Humphrey Carpenter's Letters of J.R.R. Tolkien.  Foster's other sources include The Hobbit, The Lord of the Rings, The Silmarillion, The Adventures of Tom Bombadil, Pauline Baynes' 1969 map of Middle-earth (on which she was advised by Tolkien himself), and the first edition of The Road Goes Ever On.<br />The most impressive section, however, is Foster's attempt to devise a chronology of the First Age.  Such a chronology could be achieved with any hope of accuracy only after Christopher Tolkien published The War of the Jewels in 1994, 16 years after Foster published the Complete Guide.  Foster's guesswork was off by no more than a few years.  I still glance through his chronology for a quick reference when I just need to be reminded of critical dates.<br />My only regret is that this book was never updated, although I heard a rumor that HarperCollins was looking for someone to revise it.  It would be good to see a much fuller guide published, but only if Foster's impeccable standard was adhered to.	2000-12-14
US	50125958	RDULHX3NLKYD8	0395680921	353903220	Morgoth's Ring: The Later Silmarillion, Part 1, Vol. 1	Books	5	57	61	N	N	At last, we are given insight into The Silmarillion itself	The most important part of this book is the section titled &quot;Laws and Customs of the Eldar&quot;.  For the only time in his long career of writing essays and opinions essentially intended only for himself the author of The Lord of the Rings set aside story and drama to explore the social and cultural heritage of the Noldor and the Eldar in general.<br />All the other works in this book fall into place only if the reader understands the peculiar outlook that Tolkien envisioned for the Elves.  They were not truly deathless, but recognized many forms of death.  And for the Elves the union of spirit and body was as intrinsic as breathing and life.  All their griefs therefore proceeded from the disruption of these fundamental precepts in Aman, where such disruption should never have occurred.<br />Though people speak highly of &quot;Athrabeth Finrod ah Andreth&quot; it really has no meaning without the context provided by &quot;Laws and Customs&quot;.  A great many questions are answered in very matter-of-fact fashion by the author, often as asides.<br />The last section, &quot;Myths Transformed&quot;, actually leaps ahead to a period late in Tolkien's life when he began to unravel all the tales and mysteries and design a completely different cosmology.  Had he finished this later work, Tolkien would have rewritten his Silmarillion completely and in doing so would have destroyed some of the most beautiful myths of our time.	2000-12-14
US	50125958	R2DYQQ5WS8YKZC	155022347X	662224114	Lucy Lawless and Renee O'Connor: Warrior Stars of Xena	Books	5	13	13	N	N	An incredible insight into Xena fandom	I was one of the people Nikki Stafford interviewed for this book.  Sadly, the fan survey she conducted had to be cut from the final version, but a great deal of information was still included.  Nikki's research into the show, its stars, and the fans who built an international community around Xena: Warrior Princess in the early years is unsurpassed.<br />Some other books have since come out which seemed to me to be nothing more than blatant attempts to capitalize on the success of one of the most popular syndicated television shows in history.  This book always struck me as something different.  But maybe that's just because the author took the time to see what the fans thought and cared about.	2000-12-14
US	50125958	R3LDBIFBTJTCGX	0345388186	577713361	The Lays of Beleriand (The History of Middle-Earth, Vol. 3)	Books	5	54	58	N	N	Contains the greatest epic poem of the 20th century	Contrary to popular belief, this is not a book about Middle-earth.  Middle-earth didn't exist when Tolkien wrote the poems contained in this book.  But the legends they established were taken up into the later Middle-earth mythology even though we were only treated to glimpses of them in the years preceding the publication of this book.<br />Lays of Beleriand unveils the true source of the Beren and Luthien story told in The Silmarillion.  Although the characters predate &quot;Lay of Leithian&quot;, Tolkien brought them forward in a radical evolutionary process which changed many things.  The product of his changes was a fantastic poem which would make a wonderful book in its own right.  Alas!  He never finished the lay.<br />Deemed too &quot;Celtic&quot; by an early reader at Allen &amp; Unwin, the poem was set aside by Tolkien as he turned to lighter projects.  And though he tried to return to it later in life, the flame had dwindled and he was unable to rekindle the ancient fire which inspired this masterpiece.  The last lines of the poem seem to describe the work's own fate: &quot;An gleam of swords in fire there flashed/the fangs of Carcharoth, and crashed/together like a trap, that tore/the hand about the wrist, and shore/through brittle bone and sinew nesh,/devouring the frail mortal flesh;/and in that cruel mouth unclean/egulfed the jewels holy sheen.&quot;<br />A few snippets followed, disconnected from the primary narrative.  All that could have been, that should have been, was lost forever, unless Tolkien is singing the final stanzas for his beloved Edith beneath the trees in a faraway paradise even now....	2000-12-14
US	50125958	R39C9UMC47XM13	0385491360	839405242	Xena: Warrior Princess Official Guide To the Xenaverse	Books	5	7	7	N	N	The most professional treatment of Xena a fan can give	I've met Rob Weisbrot.  You wouldn't think he's a hardcore nutball (what Lucy Lawless calls her most dedicated fans) but he is a Xenite through and through.  He's also a professional historian who teaches at a northwestern college.  The man can talk to a room full of people.<br />But more importantly, he gave Xena fandom its first step into the world of print by impressing Renaissance Pictures and Universal Studios with his enthusiasm that when it became clear he was going to write some fan books they realized they'd better get him on board.<br />So, we have the official guide to Xena written by a true Xena fan.  Weisbrot took the time to interview producers, writers, and cast members.  He visited the sets and watched all the episodes.  He understands the subject matter thoroughly, and his love of ancient Greek mythology is an added bonus.  You can't go wrong by buying this book!	2000-12-14
US	50125958	R2QU5RZ5BJNHAF	0812531698	887234645	Gryphon's Eyrie	Books	4	15	15	N	N	Kerovan and Joisan find a place in Arvon	Although other reviewers speak of a &quot;Gryphon series&quot; of books, this is actually just one of more than twenty books set in Andre Norton's Witch World.  The characters of Kerovan and Joisan were introduced in The Crystal Gryphon and brought back for Gryphon in Glory.  Gryphon's Eyrie continues the tale, which is finally resolved in The Warding of Witch World.<br />Kerovan is partly descended of the Dalesfolk and partly descended of the Old Ones.  The Dalesfolk entered the Witch World centuries in the past, settling in the highlands along the coast of the Witch World's &quot;western continent&quot;.  They found traces of the Old Ones, an ancient and apparently indigenous group of races who had mastered the Power, what we could call &quot;magic&quot;.<br />Kerovan's mother bargained with dark forces to give her a child she thought she could control for her own ends.  But he proved to be other than what she expected, and these books have followed Kerovan as he has sought his true place in the world, and the right heritage.  With Joisan, who gives Kerovan unconditional love and support while resolving her own conflicts, Kerovan proves to be one of the strongest fantasy characters I've ever seen.<br />Norton takes strong female characters and makes them appealing for wide audiences.  But she succeeds with Kerovan and Joisan as with no other husband-wife team.  The first book is the best in the sub-series, and Gryphon in Glory is probably better than this one.<br />All of Norton's collaborations leave something to be desired when compared to her own original work, but Ann Crispin was always one of the better collaborators.  She seems to have a real feel for the Witch World settings and pacings Norton made legendary in the 1960s and 1970s before she started sharing her world with other writers.	2000-12-14
US	50125958	R61DWWYHH1JSC	0517120771	69202422	Tolkien Bestiary	Books	2	27	37	N	N	Don't expect accuracy or faithfulness to Tolkien	David Day is one of the more imaginative Tolkien annotators ever to be published.  His work is completely without merit from a scholarly point of view because he makes up his facts and includes many misleading details.  He is constantly hammered by Tolkien researchers on the Internet.<br />What he brings to the realm of Middle-earth commentary is an imaginative retelling of Tolkien's mythology.  It's unique, if not legitimate.  He lacks Tolkien's style and depth, but many people have enjoyed Day's books through the years despite their inaccuracy.<br />These books make good conversationalist pieces, but the reader should beware.  They won't teach you much about Tolkien's world and what little they have to offer in the way of accurate information is washed away by the unauthorized additions and changes.	2000-11-08
US	50125958	R1872NWTB18HPV	0312866445	357625689	There and Back Again: By Max Merriwell	Books	5	4	6	N	N	This book is a must-read for any Hobbit fan	I first heard about There And Back Again last year and as soon as possible I bought a copy of the book.  I thoroughly enjoyed every minute of reading it.  Although the Hobbit connections are there, they are not usually obvious until you get right up on them or have just passed them.  A  well-tutored Tolkien reader can still find himself wondering, &quot;Is this  in The Hobbit?&quot;<br />But DON'T DO THAT!<br />Pat Murphy is an excellent  writer.  What she shares in common with Tolkien is the love of telling a  good tale and keeping the reader captivated and wanting to turn the page.   The style is pure Murphy, through and through, but the story is as timeless  as Tolkien's own vision of a carefree little man who gets drawn into a  greater adventure without losing himself in it completely.<br />Faerie has  indeed moved into outer space.  This book is a great gift for anyone who  loves Tolkien and is a good introduction to quality space opera for young  adults.	2000-04-26
