US	50124244	R311BXX9DRFQ33	014024364X	933995871	A People's Tragedy: The Russian Revolution: 1891-1924	Books	3	39	59	N	N	Darn. We accidentily dropped The People and they broke.	I liked this book more than I should have, owing to my inordinate glee of reading people who are so thoroughly wrong.<br />I call Figes historical account the 'Brittany Spears \\"Oops I did it again\\" theory of Soviet massacres' for its approach to the eventual massacre of Russian civilization by a group of men dedicated to an idea about history. The curious end effect of this \\"post-cold war\\" postmodern history is that it takes the marrow out of the bones of the dead on which it rests.<br />I did appreciate so much about this history that it almost seems petty of me to rest my objection on the small matter of Figes treating the massacre of the Russian population as just events getting out of control, as if the Russian Revolution were just a tea and crumpet party gone terribly, terribly wrong, and ended up killing a couple dozen million people. Those boys in the Politburo, they sure do get in some wacky capers.<br />A lot of this was interesting, and I liked it. The personal accounts and uses of personal documents are done better here than almost anywhere else except with Volkoganov's treatments of the Soviet leadership, and I appreciate the attempt at sobriety in scholarship. However, in an attempt to avoid the heavy-breathing aspects of the Pipe's and the Conquest's of historiography, Figes has essentially exculpated the Soviet leadership of blame while simultaneously blaming them for lesser evils. The net effect is Figes looks like he's trying to cover for them, and this is unnacceptable.<br />In the end, the book ended up valuing a sober tone in expense of the truth of the subject. What Figes should have aimed for was sobriety plus truth. As it is, I got no sense of the inevitability of the hell unleashed by an apocryphal ideology bent on conquering the world. I know it's unfashionable now to say things like it now, but you know, the commies did this, not the Rotarians or Tsar Nicholas or Stolypin his own dumb self. The \\"skepticism\\" NYTBR's Steven Miner sees in Fige's treatment of Lenin leaves quite a lot to be desired, namely, the square blame of the Soviet \\"experiment\\". While stressing how badly things did suck for the average peasant under Lenin, Figes always stops short of the plain blame we can find in, say, William Shirer's account of Hitler. This is unnacceptable, and it amounts to a historical double standard that I cannot help but think is ideologically based. Simply put, like the Easter Bunny and moderate Arabs, the non-ideological discussion of the Soviet experiment doesn't exist, nor should it. Those who attempt non-ideological approaches invariably end up merely disguising their presuppositions rather than airing them openly.<br />I did like a lot else about the book, namely, as another reviewer put it, it's not a history that assumes the reader has foreknowledge of the early Soviet times. Other prominent historians like Pipes and Conquest write first rate history, but they do so for my clique, those who are already well educated on the subject at hand. This is not to say their approaches are wrong, but that more basic tomes such as Fige's are quite useful for beginners who want a serious understanding of an important event.<br />All in all, I recommend the book. It would be perfect if not for the tiny problem of being wrong. The Russian people were not destroyed because Lenin wasn't good at foreseeing economic relations or he was crabby after getting shot. The end result was forordained in the nature of the system. Trotsky in charge would have been another series of slaughters. You wouldn't be able to tell that with Figes around.Fige's treatment of Lenin leaves quite a lot to be desired, namely, the square blame of the Soviet \\"experiment\\". While stressing how badly things did suck for the average peasant under Lenin, Figes always stops short of the plain blame we can find in, say, William Shirer's account of Hitler. This is unnacceptable, and it amounts to a historical double standard that I cannot help but think is ideologically based. Simply put, like the Easter Bunny and moderate Arabs, the non-ideological discussion of the Soviet experiment doesn't exist, nor should it. Those who attempt non-ideological approaches invariably end up merely disguising their presuppositions rather than airing them openly.  <br />I did like a lot else about the book, namely, as another reviewer put it, it's not a history that assumes the reader has foreknowledge of the early Soviet times. Other prominent historians like Pipes and Conquest write first rate history, but they do so for my clique, those who are already well educated on the subject at hand. This is not to say their approaches are wrong, but that more basic tomes such as Fige's are quite useful for beginners who want a serious understanding of an important event. <br />All in all, I recommend the book. It would be perfect if not for the tiny problem of being wrong. The Russian people were not destroyed because Lenin wasn't good at foreseeing economic relations or he was crabby after getting shot. The end result was forordained in the nature of the system. Trotsky in charge would have been another series of slaughters. You wouldn't be able to tell that with Figes around.	2002-08-21
US	50124244	R39AY01Y257BGV	0195140648	876233921	The New Terrorism: Fanaticism and the Arms of Mass Destruction	Books	4	16	21	N	N	Apologia pro vita &quot;The New Terrorism&quot; sua	I keep thinking I've fread a different book than the ones that other people review. The History of Terrorism is one of those books. This book was fantastic, and it suffered from few to none of the problems attributed to it below. <br />I admit to being baffled by one other review in particular. Being fairly well versed in Baader-Meinhoff lore, and I couldn't find a single un-superficial problem with Laqueur's account of them, although I did like Laqueur's 1987 book &quot;The Age of Terrorism&quot; better than this book as far as the Red Army Faction goes. But these are small potato problems, and don't lead me at all to the conclusion our German friend had. I think it very significant that he did not bother to note a single &quot;innacuracy&quot;. <br />The other criticisms are either utterly beside the point or approaching the absurd. The worst were the spurious definitional demands. Until it was taken up by dogmatists, terrorism clearly meant non-state, irregular violence. It was only the needs of left-rhetoric that expanded the view of terrorism to include what states do, which intelligent people might think is called &quot;war&quot; and &quot;repression&quot;. I can think of no reason to include The US and Isreal except for dogmatic purposes: if we were to include Isreal, why would our German friend not include Cuba? The clear answer is this is an ideological agenda and not a serious rejoinder for an expansive notion of terrorism. Essentially, the other reviewer doesn't like the US or Isreal from political contacts and is saddened from a lack of political agenda on the part of Mr. Laqueur. <br />And if by some possibility our other reviewer friend does not mean some simple anti-American or anti-Isreali bias, then his main problem is that this book is an American writer writing from an American perspective on terrorism. Contrary to what mister Colberg believes, it is not a crime to have an American perspective. <br />The last point is most substantive, and wqhereMr. Laqueur is most right and his other rewviewer is most wrong- the vast majority of terrorists throughout ages have clearly been unremarkable people. This is what makes the phenomenon so interesting- the notion that terrorism is part of some corner in human nature. I give to you the 19 unremarkable folks who took down the World Trade Center as an example. I don't think our other reviewer friend realizes quite how well Joseph Conrad defined the standard terrorist or why his characterization has survived so long in the minds of people who think about terrorism.   <br />This was a fine book. Please buy it.	2002-01-12
US	50124244	R2EGOR0JB0A3B4	0674537513	312689812	The Logic of Collective Action: Public Goods and the Theory of Groups, Second printing with new preface and appendix (Harvard Economic Studies)	Books	5	10	16	N	N	The Few, The Proud, The Worthwhile	It continually amazes the curious mind how few books are written about important matters. It would seem groups are a fecund area for study, a kind of natural playground for better minds, but this is not the case. <br />'The Logic of Collective Action' is one of the thankfull exceptions to this rule. Although now somewhat dated in discussions of labor matters as a whole, I found this book to be nearly dead on in its critiques of larger groups, especially on point of larger socialist ideas concerning the proper workings of groups. The discussion on when and where groups fail is one of  perfect Voltairian pitch- measured, intelligent, thorough, and agressively objective. <br />Although a left-wing economist, everyone from a a free-marketer to a marxist and everywhere in between can find solace in the even handedness and range which Olson rangfes his examples. He appears to have read every significant book and thought ever produced on structural matters from the range of economists open to him at the time. This is something of a marvel of a feat considering the disrepute objective scholarship has taken recently. <br />Comparative economics should start with this book.	2001-09-06
US	50124244	R2JLKVVZAL0LZ9	0674452569	201104658	Inequality Reexamined	Books	5	70	86	N	N	Fantastic- and I don't agree with a word of it, either!	I read this book in one sitting, and let me say it is a great book. <br />It is odd so few books are written on such a basic philosophical question as equality, and reading mister Sen is akin to drinking a cold glass of water for a man in a desert of political philosophy. <br />The prose is somewhat weak, the stye is stilted, and that oddly only seems to add to mister Sens' achievement: I never get the feeling that when I turn the next page I will be bored or watch him say something unnecessarily pedantic. The whole book is carried solely by the interesting subject at hand and mister Sens  endlessly excellent commentary on it. <br />That having been said, I agree with none of it. I do not value equality in any way, and my politics are thoroughly aristocratic and Old Right. So perhaps the possible reader should take that into account: I have nothing but praise for mister Sens books, and this book in particular is an excellent dive. Perhaps praise from a trenchant enemy is worth more than praise from the ideologically like minded. <br />I will be reading it and making notes and attacks on it for a year to come, at the very least. No matter how you view equality, I advocate mister Sen without reservation. This is excellent. Please buy it.	2001-07-31
US	50124244	R2EHWWKA05Z2R8	0860915387	876104197	Ideology: An Introduction	Books	3	7	43	N	N	The winter of reviewer's discontent	There are several sentences in my friend's asnalysis of the eminant mister Eagleton's critic (myself) which catch the eye somehow.<br />&quot;Arguably, he's not Marxist enough in critiquing these positions&quot;<br />This sentence alone tells us all we will ever need to know about the biases of the reviewer. Actually, it is nothing of the sort, and the eminent and dignified mister Eagleton was nothing short of baldly dogmatic in in every page of his book.<br />The next sentence is a reader-stopper, a sort of Gog and Magog of being completely incorrect:<br />&quot;In using phrases like &quot;abstract structures of ideology&quot; the reviewer shows he has not really read the book attentively, as ideology is not necessarily &quot;abstract&quot; at all&quot;<br />Actually, that's all ideology is by its very definition- an abstraction, an idea about how the universe works. The Mirriam Webster dictionary clearly defines the word &quot;ideology&quot; in direct and complete contradiction to my reviewer friend:<br />&quot;Ideology: Function: noun 1 : visionary theorizing 2 a : a systematic body of concepts especially about human life or culture b : a manner or the content of thinking characteristic of an individual, group, or culture c : the integrated assertions, theories and aims that constitute a sociopolitical program.&quot;<br />Not content with with opening his mouth and removing all doubt, our friend goes on to embarrass himself further:<br />&quot;And, incidentally, by what definition of &quot;ideology&quot; is Marxism an ideology??&quot;<br />I thought the multiple question marks were a nice emphasis of the intelligence of this statement. Well my illustrious friend, Marxism is an ideology in the same sense that it is a sociopolitical idea, a theory. Also, Marx made mention of it as a theory maybe fifteen or twenty thousand times in his writing, and that is what it is called by every marxian scholar alive and dead. Theories are ideas. Ideas are by their very nature abstractions. Even high school children in the UK know this.ature abstractions. Even high school children in the UK know this.	2001-07-30
US	50124244	R2QHW6SEQKTYCX	0385720270	814405181	Development as Freedom	Books	5	11	35	N	N	Five stars- A superb lie	James Versluys, editor, Houston Review<br />This is a very hard book to rate on some kind of star system.  Being a longtime fan of Armatya Sen, this remains one of my favorite books, and it contains a good deal of worthwhile information and is an excellent general discussion of development. <br />The problem with the whole book arises out of a very open and rather immediate consequence of Sen's reasoning. Simply put, development is not freedom, it is development. &quot;Freedom to&quot;, or the &quot;positive freedoms&quot; are nothing of the kind- freedom to something is simply a trick phrase used by academics in general as a rather conscious attempt to subvert the meaning of the word. <br />I call this approach the 'trigger word problem'. Politics likes to use certain emotional and somewhat vague words to its advantage. The political left has not for a long time been able to use the word freedom in a political context to its advantage for the simple reason that they're not for it, but consequently do not want to be seen as the enemies of freedom. <br />Consequently the diversion of the idea of &quot;positive freedoms&quot; has come about, and is one of the central lies of this exccellent book.<br />Development is not freedom, it is development. Being &quot;free&quot; to  have something may indeed be a good thing, but it remains an entitlement, not a freedom. The term is only honestly used when it is used in the negative sense. <br />Arguments may be made for any number of Sen's points. Certainly freedom in a political sense enhances the possibility of advancement in wealth and health. And there is a vaguely defined but nevertheless certain truth that people who have advanced economies will have a tendancy toward general freedom- these points are as obvious as they are important to understanding development. The problem is freedom is not a number of dollars on one's pocket. One does not describe a man with enough money to buy a limousine with a driver as a man withan important freedom.  People can be poor and free or rich and not free. <br />Development as freedom rests on a linguistic trick of the word &quot;freedom&quot; arising from the need of a political left not to be on the recieving end of the political rights attacks. Whatever one thinks of the actual issues involved, Sen and his cohorts in political thinking (Isiah Berlin) have created a false sense of a basic political word, an Orwellian attempt to deform language for simple political ends. No one is &quot;fifty dollars freer&quot; than they were before payday. <br />Freedom is freedom. Development is development. They are interrelated subjects the same way economics and politics are related, but they are also different in the same way politics and economics are words with seperate meanings. This book is a clear attempt to benefit from the good will that comes from a valued word and deposit the good feelings on to certain political ends. <br />This is an excellent book. I highly suggest it to everyone. It is, however, a consciously produced intellectual lie by a superb sophist. This book would have been much better had it not decided to explain development as freedom. The book could have stood well on its own by discussing the relationship developed economies have with freedom. It IS interesting and relevant that political freedom aids development and that development aids in freedom. Had Sen merely noted the relationship as coinciding together, he could have made one of the best arguments the left has in rational choice philosophical modelling. As it is, Sen has besmirched one of the few good works of the left by wrapping his politics in the glory of a word. Lies do not deserve credit. <br />This book has in it the workings of a dozen good conversations. That makes the dissapointment worse. Word tricks do not add to debate.	2001-06-18
US	50124244	R1F6CK0UCXTXCI	0553148117	784693536	Hot Time in Old Town (Mathew Swain, Bk. 1)	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Still remember this from childhood	I still remember getting this Buck Rogers hair cut to match the look of the character on this book. I got it sometime in the 80's when I was a kid, and yet with all the bad memory I have for so much fiction, this stays with me more than two decades later.  <br />The others said it, but it bears repeating- this was cyber punk done earlier and better than elsewhere. <br />I've picked up other McQuay books- they're notso hotso. But this group of Swain books captured the dystopian world fantasy perfectly. I don't know if it was made before or after Blade Runner, but it had to either been influenced by or was an influence on the making of the movie. Either way, he captured the feel of a dystopia perfectly here. It's clearly where his talent lies.	2001-04-18
US	50124244	R3MYIA1DIYF3GC	0871136341	715270524	When Your Phone Doesn't Ring, It'll Be Me (Psychology Professional Practice Ser;6)	Books	5	8	26	N	N	What I always wanted to do	I always wanted to get Cynthia Heimels cell phone number. Then I could call her up and say &quot;Well, no one called, so I assumed it was you&quot;<br />James Versluys	2001-03-12
US	50124244	R2CFB65Z4OAM66	0465041965	357546778	How We Got Here: The 70's: The Decade that Brought You Modern Life (For Better or Worse)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	One of the few honestly entertaining works of history	James Versluys, editor, Houston Review. Until mr. Frum's book, I had yet to read a good history of ultra modern times. I have finally read one in &quot;How We Got Here&quot;. <br />Unlike mr. Frum's book on the right, which I found perfunctory, this book is a fresh peach in the rotting orchard of modern historical tracts. I can tell this was a good work because he had insights on the modern condition that I have not already dad. This is quite a feat, because I rarely find some work of interprative history that is not chocked full of notions that every damned inferior historian already has. It's so refreshing to see a man who can think on his own. This must make him a pariah with various history treachers hunched down in their dark little rooms. <br />The best part of the book is that it was very loosely defined in the 70's: mr. Frum avoided all the faults of the various historico-biographies of the 60's which all seemed to forget the historical continuum and only vaguely remember that there were times *outside* the 60's. Mr. Frum, to his undying credit, not only pegs the more interesting historical time, and he also is relentlessly comparative not only to the rest of the century, but he compared the times to other trends from times past. How excellent that he has this far reaching view!<br />I found his noting of trends of the past especially illuminating. As Hegel put it, &quot;Men do not learn from history. If they did, they would not keep making the same mistakes&quot;. Damn right. <br />For once, we have a historian who seems to understand the patterns of history both where they apply and where they don't: most historians seem hamstrung when comparing history. When they see a parallel, it becomes the same thing to them. They do not see how what is ostensibly the same event is also different. To his credit, Mr. Frum sees the unique happenings and unique patterns that come from such things as Television, mass communication, and incredible wealth. When he notes the'gilded ages' of the past, he does not fall into the trap of immediately implying this is the exact same occurance, or that it might be the same thing. He seems aware that there are unique pieces to this new history. <br />Lastly, this book is great because mr. Frum decides not to dive into the tired &quot;Roman Empire in the Late Stages&quot; comparative theory which historians and the semi-educated seem to think is such a clever thing to say. Thank God. <br />Hey, buy the book. It's good. There's a lot in it, and Mr. Frum seems to undersatand that history is a big thing, not to be reduced into cliche's. How unique.	2001-03-07
US	50124244	R3DMU4GE5H2MYZ	052133831X	839035915	An Introduction to Karl Marx	Books	5	11	21	N	N	Excellent and worth the dive	Apparently the gentleman below and I have read different books with the same title, because the book I read, &quot;An Introduction to Karl Marx&quot; by Jon Elster, was absolutely nothing like the book  mr. Doepke reviewed. <br />The book, as far as I can tell with my level of marxian scholarship, is a complete introductoin, and it suffered from none of the failings attributed by it below. Descriptions flowed easily and succintly and I had no trouble understanding them at all. Perhaps this is because I am more of an advanced marx scholar than our other reviewer friend. <br />But I suspect that the reason mr. Doepke is not happy with this book is because it is a disspasionate consideration of Marxian ideas from a supremely educated man who holds no special religious-kind of attraction to Marx, as so many Marx scholars do. <br />Let there be no doubt- the disspasionate nature of mr. Elster's analysis of Marx and his contributions is what makes him a rare find. Most all Marx scholars have some kind of agenda in approaching marx, and are colored accordingly (Tom Sowell and Edward Herman, for example). <br />To his undying credit, Mr. Elster is a leftist who seems to have no agenda in speaking about Marx. Stunningly, he without exception atomizes Marx's main theses and considers them both seperately and as a whole. The result is incisive and dead-on commentary that no other scholar alive has ever even approached, to my knowledge.  <br />What George Orwell did for concretly existing communist governments Jon Elster has done for Marxian theory- a deadly accurate eye methodically slashing through to the real core. I have never found a single scholar that I was not hard pressed to disagree violently with, but Elster manages to leave me without complaint and wondering how I am able to critique the bad points of his books. I am simply unequal to the task of disagreeing with any of Elster's main notions. This is an amazing fact considering we have no ideological common ground.That's how good this man is.  <br />And a last point- unlike most Marx scholars, Elster has a wide range in a vast array of subjects, which makes him interesting to philosophers and economists such as myself in addition to nearly the entire sweep of the social sciences from psychology and sociology on outward. <br />Buy this book. Elster has no equal.	2001-03-02
US	50124244	R1P4V1HL162FFK	0860915387	876104197	Ideology: An Introduction	Books	1	15	78	N	N	Horrible writer, horrible thinker, horrible book	I actually am going to assign this book. It is an excellent extended example of the logical fallacy called &quot;begging the question&quot;: Mr. Eagleton makes an attempt to discuss ideology in a way that does not acknowledge the implicit ideological structure of his own theory of ideology. Sort of like a postmodernist who claimed all was relative, Mr. Eagleton's thesis is a blatantly ideological marxian class analysis applied to abstract structures of ideology. In doing this, and in asking the reader to believe this account is anything but a reformulation of the Marxian position on power is an amazing lie. <br />The premise is simple and completely unoriginal, and Mr. Eagleton's text has been thoroughly 'Veblenized' (meaning made purposely obfuscatory so as to disguise bad premises, or, bad writing done for effect). Mr. Eagleton immediately divides the world up into the neuvo-simplified Marxian categories of the rulers and the ruled, and he gets no further than that. It's all a big socio-economic system conspiracy, you see: ideology is not philosophy applied to politics or abstractions, they are reduced to being simply tools of power. While in an incredibly limited sense this is true, for the most part it is not, and people hardly understand the roots of their own ideological leanings.  <br />The Himalayan extremity of Eagleton's prose was done on purpose. It is done so at the end reading the only thing one can think to say of the book is to repeat the simple premises one has been given by it. Eagleton wants you to believe in his ideological notion that the world is divided up into his Marxian class system, and wants (like all marxianss except maybe Jon Elster) to have the reader believe (in as inexact a way as can possibly be mustered) that only a radical break from the common structures of ideology is the only way to break from underneath this class war being waged against you. In other words, you have to become a commie rat to stop being taken in by the ruling class. In other words, you have to adopt his ideology to rise above ideology....	2001-02-21
US	50124244	R1R54IQSCG6P17	0312143370	458150730	The Florence King Reader	Books	5	53	53	N	N	The Mistress of Mendacity makes mavelous mischief	I am angry at Florence King. She hasn't written a book in years and  frankly, I am tired of waiting for her next one. Since National Review put  a contract out on my life for my unpaid subscription, I am not even given  the pleasure of reading her splendid column in the back, which I naturally  flip straight to when I can pilfer a copy from the library, who are also  gunning for me. In between dodging the collection goons at NR and the shock  troops from the library, I would like to have a comforted soul with the  immediate purchase of Miss King's newest book, which is five years over  due, by my estimation. Where is it, Miss King? <br />This anthology is, of  course, utterly delightfull and one of the rare books that lives up to  every expectation built up on the dustcover. King's scrumptuous analogies  and meticulous self-editing have created prose I could eat my lunch on, it  is so clean and perfected. <br />The other 'King partisan' I know told me once  that people who read her inevitably end up buying all her books. As I am a  man given to contrarianism, I balked at the idea and resolved not to be  that dreaded monicker- a fan. I further balked when I read her editor's  praise of her work in the same vein. Those are the same kinds of praises  the moron teachers in my english classes in college gave John Updike for  having prose I would not feed to rabid dingos. <br />But damned if I haven't  bought every book in her set. I have, against all good sense, become a  thorough fan of this excellent woman's works. She is, simply put, the best  prose stylist of the latter half of the twentieth century. Her works are  like an elixer on the relentless nature of my hyper-modern Gen-X  environment. A good hour long sit down reading of King can dispell an  entire week's worth of the New York Times and two months worth of CNN.  <br />In short, buy her book. If you're here reading this review and you're  wondering about the possibility of it being a good buy, stop wondering-no  one with an ounce of artistic appreciation could possibly feel they had not  had money well spent. <br />And I am wailing and gnashing my teeth to say it,  but you will end up buying every single one of her books. If you're the  praying sort, pray for two thing- one, that Miss King will write a book  real soon, and two, that the doorbell that just rang was not Bill Buckley  come looking for his twenty nine dollars.	2000-09-05
US	50124244	R2NT2CLAXPQL0P	0803270763	498236443	The Warriors: Reflections on Men in Battle	Books	5	25	28	N	N	Leaves me humbled to read such a great book	To begin praises of this book is hard, because as a man who has never been  in combat, I hesitate to speak on matters so foreign to my experience.  <br />But J. Glenn Gary leaves me stunned and humbled. The amount of pure  excellent reflection in this book was utterly wonderful, and I left with a  real sense of understanding nothing else has accomplished. It is clear Gary  has created a book that is more complete a discussion of battle as any man  alive. <br />Rarely is a book worthy of cult status. This one is.	2000-08-27
US	50124244	RJ8JCBNAMZF7	0140249079	586405329	Modern Philosophy: An Introduction and Survey	Books	5	48	51	N	N	A fantastic introduction for those wishing to learn	There is too much to recommend Scruton to the beginner, so I won't attempt to summarize them. I will say that this book is the best survey I've ever read. <br />The complaints of complexity are legion in philosophy- it's not a  subject for the average man by its very nature. Scruton does as well as any  man living or dead in making philosophy understandable to the novice. The  reviewers below simply do not understand that this comes with the territory  by definition: philosophy is exegesis at the limits of the human grasp. I  previously thought there was no way to make it as accessible as this  without sacrifising too much: Scruton proved me wrong. You get farther with  less hard work under Scruton than any  philosopher since Nietzsche. And I  know of no one who can make Kant instantly intelligable.  <br />I disagree  with Scruton a good amount of the time, and it makes not one iota of  difference: this is a little masterpiece. Even the scattered criticism is  wrong. Scruton has taken on left philosophers head on more than once (he  has a book on the subject). For the most part, he does an excellent job  with the quick hack and slash job he does here. The line about anyone  asking you to believe that nothing is true is asking you not to believe  them is a little rhetorical gem. I don't think it's hard to dismiss the  Sausser and Derrida clique outright and then get on to the job of doing  philosophy. Maybe that is my fault for not being smart enough- I don't  think being able to spot the inconsistancy of an argument from the first  sentence means that I have to continue debating the issue. <br />Either way,  the hardest and most worthwhile philsophers extant get the long shrift  here, which is precisely how any book purporting to be a survey should  work. This book is for everyone: for the beginner looking to uderstand and  for the veteran who likes clear and cogent argument. Buy this book.	2000-07-21
US	50124244	R2KN0XA2FVKAOG	0684836122	698155584	Scapegoat: The Jews, Israel, and Women's Liberation	Books	1	34	51	N	N	Scapegoat is bad,  but with a uniquely interesting point	This book was eerily bad, a sort of reductio ad absurdum of every stereotype given to feminists. From the nonage of the equation of  &quot;emasculated&quot; Jews with other kinds of agression to the  preoccupation Dworkin has for bad scholarship, this book is ironically a  shining example of the Hitlerian principle that anything can be sold as  long as it is repeated often enough. <br />There is so much wrong with her  thesis it's hard to know where to begin. <br />Forget the weakness of the  biological equation of types of agression under the Nazis as compared to  individual agression of men to women- that is far too sophisticated a  rejoinder to this book. Let us instead look at the simple history of the  perception of Jews in Nazi era Germany:<br />The simple fact is in Nazi  Germany Jews were not looked upon as passive creatures by the Nazis  themselves. As Hitler put it, the Jews were the &quot;negative  ubermensch&quot;, a sort of daguerrotype of the good Aryan Ubermensch of  Hitler's turgid racial imagination. This, combined with the brave and  trenchant defense of the Warsaw ghetto and other places where Jews defended  themselves with skill and aplomb, and you begin to realize the fact that  wipes out Dworkin's thesis from the start- that the &quot;emasculated  Jew&quot; which Dworkin clings to was a fictional creation established long  after the war had been ended. So the very basis of Dworkin's book- that  there was an abuse dynamic that bore resemblance to the supine position of  individual men to individual women- is refuted with the merest glance at  history. <br />It is clear Dworkin is far off in her understanding of male and  female sexuality from the beginning even eithout having to go to the absurd  lengths of making some kind of Nazi equation with spousal abuse. Andrea  Dworkin clearly does not have much of a clue of the idea of sexual  socioiology or the ways it might manifest itself in our lives, just as she  is forthrightly determined to pull dispirate facts together in order to  cram them into her doctrinaire proto-religious emancipationist ideology.  <br />That having been said, I still feel Dworkin has the grain of a better  analysis of the more turbulant aspects of male female relationships than  her detractors. Other commentators deride her notion that sexuality between  men and women has the ring of an agressive manifestation- she calls romance  &quot;rape with good salesmanship&quot;. <br />While this is clearly  hyperbolic, I believe the essense of it is correct- romance is mostly found  where the hint of domination is most prevalent. She is completely wrong  that this domination is a societal sublimation of any kind (it is, at  bottom, clearly a biological trait and not a cultural one), the essential  seedy nature of attraction is one that I find hard to deny. This is the one  point her critics would least like to give her, but the one I find most  convincing. I do not see where this reality should give her critics (or  Dworkin herself, for that matter) some kind of implicit approval of some  kind of radical lefitsm, however: it seems obvious that more traditional  forms of morality more effectively sublimates the worst libidonous  tendancies in women and controls the worst displays in men, thus most  efectively working against this violent nature more effectivly than the  silly hodgepodge of her ideological beliefs. <br />Overall though, this book  was very, very bad, and the work of a would-be Lenin of the feminist  variety. The one good intuition Dworkin has about the nature of male and  female oppressive relationships is overshadowed by the reams and reams of  nonsense she spouts about nearly every other conceievable angle of  ideology. This book is only good to laugh at. <br />This book is interesting  in one aspect, though- it is interesting to read people that get this much  wrong. It's the ideolgical equivalent of Sally Jesse Raphael Show- a thing  no sane or intelligent person believes,but watches nonetheless out of a  kind of natural human interest in the worst in all of us. <br />There is one  final interesting point to this book- Kirkus gave it a bad review. I wonder  why. Kirkus is a notoriously partisan review clique that famously gives one  sided ideological reviews of nearly every imaginable work of politics.  Apparently Kirkus now gives into the idea of tokenism and has hired a few  sane people. I predict this is not a trend.	2000-07-14
US	50124244	R18B4RBGID1KT7	0393048187	452127514	Reflections on a Ravaged Century	Books	5	73	82	N	N	The worst of Conquest is better than the best of Chomsky	Every time I read Conquest, I think how fortunate it is that we have had this excellent a man ponder the large questions of the twentieth century. Every page of Conquest reads like somethign you wish you had written:  thoughts unconsidered, points missed, sublime  ideas brought to life.  <br />And of course, there is this book- the century he got right from the  very beginning. And the century to which we in the rest of the world are  just now beginning to catch up with how correct Conqeust was. And we all  need to be aware- Conquest figured out the important questions of communism  right before anyone else did. <br />Chris Hitchens in his blurb got this one  right- you learn more from Conquest just in a glance than you learn from  streams of discourse from others. I don't aways agree with Conqeust, but  even I must  give the man his due: when people are asked &quot;what was the  twentieth century?&quot;, one of the first books given will be thoughts by  its best commentator- Robert Conquest. When we are all dead and buried,  this man will live in the minds of students. <br />Buy this book. Heck, buy  any book by Conquest. It's hard to go wrong with the man. The man  introduces the effects of ideology in the most convincing way possible.  <br />The trenchant conservative Florence King once said of Chris Hitchens,  &quot;If Chris Hitchens is a communist, I wanna be a communist too&quot;. I  remember a rant about Conquest by some radical or another, and had a  thought: if Robert Conquest is a McCarthyite right wing zealot, I wanna be  a McCarthyite right wing zealot too.	2000-07-14
US	50124244	RAAQQDVXD739O	0140275169	785616726	An Intelligent Person's Guide to Philosophy	Books	5	9	11	N	N	The best approach to philosophy	This was an wonderfull book. I have no clue what blessings were bestowed on modern philosophy to   warrant our having a man who delves into the inscrutibile genius of Kant be such a goddamned good writer and thinker as  Scruton, but the fact remains; Scruton's prose sparkles like bubbles in  champagne. <br />The philosopher known of as Roger Scruton is exactly what  philosophy needs to make itself relevant and worthwhile- a man who can  write English like a novelist. This is surely the Tom Wolfe of Philosophy,  much to the common readers benefit. <br />Not only is his writing superb  (especially for a philosopher), but I detect the tell tale signs of a  genius in his work. Having read his other opuses to the field, I have  detected enough theoretical creativity combined with the much needed pure  doses of good common sense that I am commanded by my conscience to tell the  reader that no matter how much I disagree with Mr. Scrutons theories, I see  Scruton as being one of the names in that will fuel the next centuries  political conservatism.	2000-07-13
US	50124244	R1WZAI5R56V5L2	0226777103	981763298	History of Political Philosophy	Books	5	15	17	N	N	Great survey of Political Philosophy. Bravo, Sir Strauss!	This book was wonderful. I highly suggest buying it. <br />One of this books main strengths lie in its atomized considerations of political philosophers- Strauss attempts no overarching theory, but keeps his  comments and observations close cropped and relevant, making most of his  characterizations accurate and excellent introducations in and odf  themselves. I first came upon this book as a treaching tool as an intro  book, but have since realized I liked it myself, meaning this book has much  to give nearly everyone who reads it. <br />I agree with the person below that  ceretain areas were perfunctory (Machiavelli is not a philosopher to  consider without much commentary, and Angelo Codevilla does a better job),  but other parts I diosagree with (I had the exact opposite problem with the  American considerations, and thought them perfunctory and too brief), but  these are very limited criticisms of a book that was exemplary in most  every other case. <br />Get this book and give another to an intelligent  friend. It is fascinating and engaging.	2000-07-13
US	50124244	R1WVV9RI4HN8SS	0192876937	91389301	German Philosophers: Kant, Hegel, Schopenhauer, Nietzsche (Past Masters)	Books	5	38	42	N	N	The best of the hardest	These are highly admirable overviews by some of the best of the current set of the philsophers examining past greats. <br />This must have been a difficult book to put together. The editors would have to have found not  one, but four great authors from which to put together introductions for  the hardest authors in all philosophy. <br />He succeeded. This book makes  immediately explaicable two of the hardest authors in all history- Kant and  Hegel. I was amazed at the level of commentary in this short a work. It is  almost impossible to pull this easy an introduction off. My hat is off to  both Scruton and Singer. <br />The other commentaries and introcductions were  as good as they come. Because of the ease of Schoepenhaur and Nietzsche,  the authors had more room to give reasonably complete explanations and  ruminations on their lives. Janner and Tannaway both make superb additions  to these traditions, both commentaries worthy of being works in themselves.  <br />This is four times a good book. My respect to all the authors, and my  full throated call for people to read these books.	2000-07-13
US	50124244	RLB6HOAFALW3G	0761520570	746070341	The Rise and Fall of the Soviet Empire	Books	3	15	20	N	N	A good pop ideological work on the Soviets	This piece deserved neither the condemnation nor the appelations it recieved from the other reviewers. As an &quot;accesible&quot; attack on the Soviet Union and a general ideological attack on communism, it does its  job. For the common audience it is aimed for, this is probably an excellent  book. <br />If looked at as a historical document, it fails. The piece glosses  over quickly the Soviet empires run (despite its three hundred pages of  inexes), and it does not seem interested in some of the more interesting  questions and quagmires that a person like Pipes or Volkogonov or Conquest  would immediately delve into. For a serious or rigorous mind, there are  better books. <br />I did like the generative later discussions after the  fall. Histories or quick discussions of Communist governments in the later  80's and 90's so far have gone pretty sparse. I found the quick discussions  on them adequately competant enough to introduce students to the manual.  <br />I found the comparison of the other viewers between Shirers book on the  Nazis and Croziers book on the communists somewhat accurate. Both were  ideological attacks for the masses. I tend to be more forgiving of  ideological attacks on the Soviets than the Nazis- no one was informed of  anything when Shirer painted the Nazis as hysterical monsters. But there  are still people who fall for the &quot;ooops, I did it again&quot; theory  of Soviet massacres, like it was some tea and crumpet party gone terribly  wrong, but gosh mister, they meant well. Nazis are ghost stories for bad  kiddies now. Communists are in a dozen governments with a &quot;what, me  worry?&quot; look on their faces. <br />That having been said, I still prefer  anything Pipes has ever written than Crozier. But then, I prefer anything  Crozier has ever written to anything by Edward Herman. <br />So there ya go.  Good if you're not a historian and not likely to be reading more on the  subject and you need a succintly written history. Bad if you are.	2000-07-09
US	50124244	RKUKQMHGX59P4	0521297052	725040803	Making Sense of Marx (Studies in Marxism and Social Theory)	Books	5	16	23	N	N	A far better read than it has any reason to be	Jon Elster has made his name among the best and brightest as one of the  most usefull people in the social sciences. This is an excellent thing to  be. <br />Making Sense of Marx was a beautifully portioned book that is hard  to praise adequately. With scholarship five feet thick, Elster displays his  full range of expertise in this book, bringing into play his vast learning  from all the social and dismal sciences. Mostly picking apart Marx's main  theories, he deftly displays what I can only call a complete Marxian  understanding. The truly refreshing part of this book was its approach:  Elster spoke using not philosophical or economic language, but the general  social sciences language.  I was hard pressed to disagree with any of his  main notions, especially his quick and incisive dissections of Marxian  notions of diminishing dynamic efficiency and the theory of history. While  I am not a strict adherant of rational choice models, he structured the  rational choice attacks as such to make them accessible to the non-believer  as well. All in all, a perfect little book.	2000-07-08
US	50124244	R23E5O26YRF9RQ	0192875779	895559541	Kant (Past Masters)	Books	5	75	88	N	N	Oddly terrific- who got Scruton to do this?	I don't know who foisted off the job of introducing Kant to the intellectual masses, but the could not have chosen better. My teeth hurt when I think about introducing Kant to neophytes. I still don't know how he  did it, because I can't explain Kant to anyone without having them  instantly MEGO (my eyes glaze over) and run crying to thre corner of the  room. <br />There is a lot that could be called contentious in this book (too  much to go into) but that isn't a bad point about any book on Kant- there  are no uncontentious books on Kant except biographies. All told, what I  disagree with Scruton on is overshadowed by the mass of things he got right  or even better than I have (no mean feat). <br />It is assured Scruton's  interpretations of Kant will become mainstream simply because he is the  only man alive to make immediately intelligable  sense of the man.  Remember, Kant was the man HL Mencken attributed the incredibly funny  comment <br />&quot;Kant was the worst writer on earth before Marx. He had  many ideas, and some of them quite simple, but he always managed to make  them seem unintelligable. I hope he is in hell&quot;	2000-07-01
US	50124244	R136GADGKU0G8V	039395529X	698071842	The Nature and Logic of Capitalism	Books	4	6	13	N	N	And excellent book	I truly enjoyed the Nature and Logic of Capitalism. When the book ran to concrete discussions in the first half of the book, it lacked. <br />However, in the later discussions, notably the larger abstract discussions on the  ideological aspects of capitalism, the book shined. In its carefull  exposition of the problems inherant in defining and understanding the  heuristic concepts of capitalism and the larger issues of addressing these  large abstract concepts, the book was sublime. I have gone back to the  discussion several times to re-read it and develop concurrant thoughts. I  would argue an attempt to find the book simply for the chapters on ideology  and conceptualisation alone. One does not have to pick up the socialist  implications and oreintation of this book to understand the value it  possesses otherwise. <br />Overall, as a general exposition on the abstract  notions of capitalism, this book does very well.	2000-06-23
US	50124244	R12WNMRP7KEY8O	1560004819	202502753	In Defense of Women (Transaction Large Print Books)	Books	5	22	24	N	N	A fantastic book by the greatest American of the 20th cent.	Undoubtedly, HL Mencken was the greatest American mind of the 20th century. It is my opinion that he was possibly the greatest man of letters in the world during the 20th century. He seems to me to be a combination of  his two predecessors, Mark Twian and Ambrose Bierce, with all the bad  alloyed out. <br />Shaw? Orwell? Pikers all, compared to the Holy Terror from  Baltimore. This book is simply fantastic. Simply reading the preface for  the first time left me breathless and in amazement. <br />The writing is so  good, let me illustrate- a black writer was assigned a story on Mencken,  because it was heard Mencken was a racist (which he was). Upon reading  Mencken for the first time, the man said his original purpose melted away  to be replaced with a single question. &quot;How does one write like that?  How can I write like that?&quot;. I concur- HL Mencken was the finest  purveyor of ideas in any man during the 20th century. <br />By this book. Then  buy all his others, starting with the Mencken Chrestomathy's and his  Prejudice series. The worst book I've ever read of Mencken is better than  the best other book I have ever read.	2000-05-30
US	50124244	RD2CGY7ETP8SJ	0029119154	346203206	Informing Statecraft: Intelligence for a New Century	Books	5	10	11	N	N	For any intelligence hands, this is the First Book	Admirably writeen, lucid prose, outstanding thought, this book would be the first book I would assign to anyone looking to understand the nature of intelligence. <br />It is interesting to note that Codevilla wrote two of the  best introductions on &quot;how to think&quot; about two major subjects-  about war in &quot;War, Ends and Means&quot; and &quot;Statecraft&quot;. It  is a crime that this book is out of print, and one should do everything in  ones power to obtain a copy. <br />The only other book in the intelligence  field that approaches this level of worth is &quot;The New KGB, Engine of  Societ Power&quot;, an older 1980's book by Robert Corson. All the other  poor books on intelligence either take the character of &quot;The Puzzle  Palace&quot; (which is stupid and an insider's pro-old boys network hack  job) or one of Noam Chomsky's blithering semi-conspiracy theories.   &quot;Informing Statecraft&quot; is the only type of really usefull  intellectual companion to intelligence work in all existance. <br />This book  is exactly what an intelligence book should be- an attack on the structural  inadequacies of the United States intelligence community in the guise of a  &quot;how-to&quot; book on how to run things correctly. Flipping through  the book, one will wonder at the bales of common sensical yet brilliant  realpolitik critiques involved in his analysis of what intelligence should  be about.	2000-05-12
US	50124244	R3HRKPGLMZJT5N	0394752090	432244212	A Mencken Chrestomathy: His Own Selection of His Choicest Writing	Books	5	133	146	N	N	The best book ever written	Perhaps I am biased. Mayhap I am gushing. I don't mind- I have read a good couple thousand books in my lifetime, and I have reviewed a few dozen for Amazon.com. Yet this is the one I keep coming back to read, year after  year. As time goes by I find myself revising the scale of Mencken's  achievement upwards and upwards, especially knowing that the only  comparison is to other mere mortal writers.  <br />What makes this book  brilliant is its terse structure- it is fragmented and in short pieces, and  this produces his intense compact wit in wave after wave of the finest  observations and thoughts to come out of mortal man since Tom Sawyer. A  Mencken Chrestomathy utterly fails to do badly at every turn. <br />If you  have glanced at this book, and have even a tiny thought at not buying at  least two copies, shoot yourself in the foot for punishment, then go buy a  dozen copies and pass them out to your superior friends as rewards for  their sagacity and charm and as a reward for their loyalty. But if you have  little humanity and wish to punish a friend or make their lives more  miserable, do not tell them of this book, and leave it right where it is.  <br />I give no book this high a regard. But I give this one my complete,  unconditional support. If you have the means, I suggest buying a thousand  copies and distributing it among the hungry of mind for the wonderful  elixer of an effect Mencken has upon the mind. <br />The only thing bad about  this book is the covers are too close together.	2000-05-12
US	50124244	R1SCX9M9VX8ILH	0415927129	674577882	War at the Top of the World: The Struggle for Afghanistan, Kashmir and Tibet	Books	5	12	25	N	N	Top notch book- and beware reviewers with obvious agendas	I don't think it's too much of a stretch to tell others who see reviews of this book how it will have a natural built-in constituency of people who will review it poorly. Notice, for instance, the clues of the people who  wrote other reviews- the last name of one reviewer is a dead giveaway as to  his prejudices. The oddly vague description another reviewer gave  (&quot;opinionated&quot;) to claim something wrong with Margolis. My  suggestion is: watch the clues of the people who write bad reviews of this  book. They will be very enlightening. <br />Don't let them fool you- this book  is great. It is made by one of the great foreign correspondants of our age,  and it delivers exactly what it promises.  Very few people can pack in that  much in that little space. It is written in Margolises inimitably crystal  clear prose, close packed reasoning, and ingratiatingly interesting subject  matter. I can think of no one who writes more for less, especially among  the old Asia hands. <br />I disagree with Margolis a good sized minority of  the time. But that is the beauty of listening to Margolis- he does the  Herculean job of writing clearly and cogently so well that I can instantly  tell how and why I disagree. A person don't have that odd feeling of having  had some vague, propogandistic trick played on them after reading  Margolises prose: his reasoning is always clear, making even those who  disagree with him respect him for the above board way he argues. In short,  his writings all have the smell of a healthy and vigorous mind honestly  exploring issues. <br />He also seems a man who understands concepts now  mostly dead: the concept of honor, the concept of a soldier's duty and  value, and the concepts of proper aloof respect for ability and cunning. He  seems to have that peculiar genius of men before  the Great Weakening  occured. <br />This book is wonderful. It should be right out on the coffee  table, all beaten up and marked-up with notes, just the way Margolis would  probably want it to be. Buy it.	2000-03-20
US	50124244	RBQM7XYKSZGMF	0820441376	886212013	Mistaken Identities: The Second Wave of Controversy over "Political Correctness"	Books	1	7	15	N	N	I looked to find this as funny, but it failed at even that	This book is a varied attempt at what I call &quot;fighting retreat&quot; argumentation. It's premise, while billing itself as sophisticated, is really very simple: recognizing that political correctness exists and that  it is the monstorous beast its enemies make it out to be (&quot;Nothing is  infamous that is not true&quot;, as Mencken said), the various leftists  here are making the most predictable rear guard action imaginable. <br />Here  are all the important points in all its predictable vainglory: 1) PC is not  ubiquitous to the left, 2) not all of us gosh darned lefties do it, 3) it's  more complex than all of that, and 4) those lefties are not the  &quot;real&quot; lefties. <br />All of which is wrong. Political correctness  is a predictable consequence of a specific series of ideas and assumptions.  Inherent in the totalitarian character of the left come our intrepid  authors, spreading wisdom to and fro like so much holy water at a High  Mass. Like crime in Washington DC, PC comes with the neighborhood of left  ideas. <br />And if we look closer, we will notice my list of their claims is  a standard operational proceedure list of propoganda points the left trots  out anytime history or circumstances proves them wrong. Think communism  (&quot;oh, they weren't 'real' leftists, they were....uhhhmm...Stalinists!  Yeah, that's it!&quot;). It is all very boring and predictable and not at  all a product you'd expect from seventeen people that bill themselves as  thinking individuals. <br />You want a better book? Go buy Roger Scruton's  tomes and leave this tripe alone.	2000-03-13
US	50124244	R30FK5Z8VCFAXY	0195071328	782616429	The Great Terror: A Reassessment	Books	5	22	27	N	N	The classic book on The Great Terror	This will ceetinaly be one of the books future students looking back into the 20th century will be reading to understand what happened in one of the most important moments. Conquest has survived his ideological critics in  pristine conditions, thus the predictive historian is judged well by  history itself in a wonderful and blessed anti-irony. When the world has  forgotten the likes of Hobsbawm, here Conquest will sit, at the head of the  table.	2000-03-13
US	50124244	R2M2VW415SMS0M	0822317133	95147182	The Myth of Political Correctness: The Conservative Attack on Higher Education	Books	4	57	97	N	N	Double Plus Good, citizen!	As a judge in the New Orwell Awards, I have the pleasure of trying to find the best piece of Orwellian attacks on the individual. <br />It is one tought competition, with many people vying for the top spot. Here, our intrepid  author has penned a serious attack on free speech and in defense of  repression everywhere. For this, we are grateful to him in a way we  proletarians will never be able to repay. <br />While not as good as some  attack on free speech (Richard Feldman comes to mind), I have to give  Mr.  Wilson some credit for several areas:<br />Brazenness- that Mr. Wilson has the  braveness and stoutheartedness of character to argue that political  correctness doesn't exist in the same country that is sending Joe Rocker to  a re-education camp for &quot;insensivtivity&quot; requires an ability to  stare reality right in the face and deny it with hand on heart. I give Mr.  Wilson my sincere admiration for his bravery in the face of annoying  reality. <br />Our other reviewer pointed out that claiming that political  correctness doesn't exist or is &quot;distorted&quot; is a thankless job. I  agree. We must learn to thank people like Mr. Wilson for their tough job in  trying to convince people of the dangers of believing in real things, and  learn to see the importance of not believing in uncomfortable concepts that  fly in the face of our ideological convictions and nostrums. I for one will  never forget the dear lesson our brave teacher has given us: namely, that  reality is no impediment to our well being and that freedom is terribly  overrated.<br />What do I rate this book? Double Plus Good!	2000-02-03
