US	50121126	R1DAACES1WPCTQ	0345404351	563194619	Betrayals	Books	4	7	11	N	N	-Too Clever By Half-	\\"What is this gap, this silence, from which the phallic text speaks and yet remains silent? What is it but the text's phallus?  What but, precisely and exactly, that phallic moment from which it has spun itself like a disavowal, a lie.  For what is a phallic text if not a lie that has to be unmasked, its strategies outwitted?\\"<br /><br />What indeed?!  And what fiend of a novel would pitch such twisted plays of language, slips of tongue, professional and academic intrigues embellished with the diabolical offenses of murder and plagiarism to this sensitive reader's eye, never to reason why?<br /><br />Well, BETRAYALS would, and does... actually.<br /><br />Truly (or somewhat so), what author Charles Palliser has herein compiled is a series of playfully interconnected novellas into a whole that's quite unlike anything I'd ever read before: even entirely unlike UNBURIED and THE QUINCUNX, the other two Palliser novels I have read.<br /><br />To wit, I have not much to say about the plot, for there is no plot really- there are many.  Though I suppose there is a central theme: that being taken from the title itself.  There are, however, certain characters whom one may gleefully take to heart and embrace, (the matter, of course, not being whether you like them at all or not- as you'll find, rather, that it's more often that you won't much anyway).  -Among my own personal favorites are Galvanauskas- the charismatic intellectual who's somewhat of a sadistic madman (and yet, he's so much more than that-) and Sholto, the mild-mannered bookseller who's practically illiterate, but keeps a diary and has braying sociopathic tendencies (and yet again, so much more to him than just this)!<br /><br />The twists are abundant here as chapter by chapter the plots take surprising turns- with each story, each point of view, and every angle beyond propriety being navigated, introspected, convoluted, dissected, then thrown to the wind like confetti- the bits falling for recycling where they may.......<br /><br />I cannot deny that essentially, BETRAYALS was an enjoyable page-turner - and parts of it had me chuckling aloud.  Yet this book actually had the potential to be a masterpiece of the cleverest persuasion -- but alas, in the end it came up well short.  In my view, the conclusion was not well in keeping with the body of the work:  it was anticlimactic and left a few & sundry questions unanswered.<br /><br />Then again- I do, upon many an occasion since having finished reading it, find myself asking: could BETRAYALS have just been another one of those terribly rampant cases of \\"the text not properly interrogated,\\" and therefore not \\"induced to make its voluntary sacrifice\\" to the power of the critic, therefore becoming \\"emasculated, and thus made to speak like the tongueless boy\\"?  Hmmm...<br /><br />Indeed, I do not know- and so I ponder on...recycling where they may.......  <br />  <br />I cannot deny that essentially, BETRAYALS was an enjoyable page-turner - and parts of it had me chuckling aloud.  Yet this book actually had the potential to be a masterpiece of the cleverest persuasion -- but alas, in the end it came up well short.  In my view, the conclusion was not well in keeping with the body of the work:  it was anticlimactic and left a few & sundry questions unanswered.  <br />  <br />Then again- I do, upon many an occasion since having finished reading it, find myself asking: could BETRAYALS have just been another one of those terribly rampant cases of \\"the text not properly interrogated,\\" and therefore not \\"induced to make its voluntary sacrifice\\" to the power of the critic, therefore becoming \\"emasculated, and thus made to speak like the tongueless boy\\"?  Hmmm...  <br />  <br />Indeed, I do not know- and so I ponder on...	2004-08-17
US	50121126	R1WCOLE73YBS3O	1573221775	539275432	My Dream of You	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Gleaning Pangs from a Timeless Hunger	One recent afternoon, whilst browsing in my neighborhood bookshop, this novel's enchantingly lovely jacket cover caught my eye.  The description it bore - a story of loneliness and passion, delved within another story of loneliness and passion - seemed exactly fitting to what I'd longed to be reading at that moment.  I therefore immediately procured it, took it home, and immersed myself within.<br />  I quickly found that though this wasn't the riveting, can't-put-it-down kind of read I'd been counting on, it certainly was an endearing one.  Nuala O'Faolain's writing has a richly textured, yet somehow quiet quality about it, that tends to draw one intimately into the story.<br />Kathleen de Burca is an expatriate Irishwoman on the brink of 50, who's been living in a London basement apartment and employed as a travel writer for over two decades. She's estranged from her family, and her work colleagues are her closest intimate friends.  When her best friend suddenly dies, she is not only slapped full in the face with a grief she has never before known, but confronted also with the devastating realization that she is truly and utterly alone, and that her present course precludes that she will be so for the remainder of her life.<br />  Kathleen never does come right out and say it, but the terror and despair she feels is palpable.  So she packs up and moves out of her basement apartment (and I must herein state that even though I applauded Kathleen's decision, I felt terribly sorry for &quot;Next Door's Cat,&quot; with whom she had shared many of her dinners). She then takes indefinite leave from her job to journey back to Ireland to investigate a divorce case from a century-and-a-half ago, which occurred toward the end of the Irish Potato Famine: a case which had fascinated her ever since she had learnt of it while in her mid-20's.<br />  The divorce case involves an affair between the English wife of an Irish landlord and their Irish servant -- and what makes the case so fascinating, at least to Kathleen is, in her words:  &quot;I was interested, always, in any story about passion, so I was interested in Mrs. Talbot and William Mullan.  I believed in passion the way other people believed in God: everything fell into place around it.  Even before I started mooching around after boys when I was fourteen, I'd understood, watching my mother, that passion was the name of the thing she was pursuing, as she trawled through novel after novel.  And it was extraordinary to me that the Talbot affair happened when it did- just after the very worst year of the potato famine.&quot;<br />  In Ireland, Kathleen stays with an earthy and agreeable Irish family, and makes friends with a few of the local personalities. Her past is deeply painful, and it keeps creeping into her thoughts.  She briefly visits her brother and his wife and child, who are the only family she has left in Ireland; then she meets a married man, and finally gets a taste of the passion she'd been barren of for so many years.  Meantime, she's fleshing out her story of the Talbot affair, but in the end her discoveries are not only rare and hard to come by, but are actually materializing into something quite bleak. Her depictions of the massive devastation caused by the famine are, in fact, some of the most shocking and heart-wrenching passages I've ever read.<br />In the end, it's essentially Kathleen discovering Herself, and in the very essence of that word: she discovers her past, her family, her heritage, her country, her regrets, her longings, her failings, and even her own unique beauty.  The factual lives of Marianne Talbot and William Mullan may remain forever shrouded in mystery - for it's most likely that their affair never even took place - but their starving ghosts certainly embody vivid life in O'Faolain's writing:<br /><br />  &quot;The habitat of their passion, where they roamed like two animals on a great plain, was silence.  Not perfect silence-- there were always the sounds of the household and sounds coming in from the estate. Sheep, penned in a front yard.  The creak of turf carts coming in from the bog.  But the couple were habitually mute.  Except that they panted and grunted when they forgot themselves in each other. Then afterwards there was peace, and silence again.  And after that, she lived in a hot dream of him.&quot;ilence-- there were always the sounds of the household and sounds coming in from the estate. Sheep, penned in a front yard.  The creak of turf carts coming in from the bog.  But the couple were habitually mute.  Except that they panted and grunted when they forgot themselves in each other. Then afterwards there was peace, and silence again.  And after that, she lived in a hot dream of him.&quot;	2004-05-23
US	50121126	R2WTXFI51YJ7TJ	0679777466	25336446	Pawn in Frankincense: Book Four in the Legendary Lymond Chronicles	Books	4	7	9	N	N	Hewn From Sparstone, Like Satin, Containing Its Light	Dorothy Dunnett has a marvelous manner of play with language. I can't say how many times during the course of reading her novels have I paused to re-read a passage oncemore, simply awestruck by her uncanny ability to dream up such wondrously clever articulations of historical detail.  Her heroes are always attractive, too.<br />Two years ago, after having read her novel on Macbeth entitled KING HEREAFTER, I undertook to read Dunnett's entire six-book Lymond series - albeit not chronologically. Beginning with the 2nd-QUEEN'S PLAY, then to the 1st-THE GAME OF KINGS, I couldn't wait, so went straight to the 6th-CHECKMATE.  I eventually relented, though, and read #'s 3-THE DISORDERLY KNIGHTS, 4-PAWN IN FRANKINCENSE, and 5-THE RINGED CASTLE in their respective order.  For some reason it has been, more than any of the others, PAWN IN FRANKINCENSE that has stayed with me ever since.<br />Francis Lymond, an exiled member of a noble family in 16th-century Scotland, embarks upon yet another quest for his honor: this time in lands far, far away from his home and all that he knows.  It ultimately leads to an adventurous search for the child he fathered - a child who had, through painstakingly woven schemes and happenstance being wholly under the power of Lymond's most implacable enemy, Graham Malett, been hidden away within the labyrinth of the Ottoman Empire.  With the help of some very wise and able allies, including his half-sister Marthe and her husband Jerott Blythe, as well as the daughter of a Scots nobleman, Philippa, Francis Crawford of Lymond sets out.<br />The dangers Lymond faces and the obstacles he must overcome are a gripping force from beginning to end.  They include not only scenes of intense battle and riveting action  - such as a life-sized & all-too-realistic climatic chess match played out in a magnificent palace (indeed, fans - this form of competition was dreamed up well before the likes of HARRY POTTER ever materialized) - but also an intricate mind game that's generated between our hero and the forces perched against him.  For the reader, this in itself becomes a dauntless, all-absorbing thing.<br />The only criticism I have for this book is one that is shared with each of the other books I've read by Dorothy Dunnett:  that there is an exasperating tendency to pit the hero against too much.  In other words - Lymond never fails to get himself into dire circumstances that often wouldn't be so dire if only his friends and family would understand what he is about.  In every plot, it seems he never fails to be continually misunderstood by those closest to him.  One would assume that with the intelligence and insight that the majority of these characters never fail to display, there would be no problem in deigning what Lymond's motives are, so hence assisting him in his endeavors.<br />Truly then, it's plain that Dorothy Dunnett's failings are of an admirable nature: for she's created characters of such vast depth and intelligence that there's no way ever to confound them.me that's generated between our hero and the forces perched against him.  For the reader, this in itself becomes a dauntless, all-absorbing thing.<br />The only criticism I have for this book is one that is shared with each of the other books I've read by Dorothy Dunnett:  that there is an exasperating tendency to pit the hero against too much.  In other words - Lymond never fails to get himself into dire circumstances that often wouldn't be so dire if only his friends and family would understand what he is about.  In every plot, it seems he never fails to be continually misunderstood by those closest to him.  One would assume that with the intelligence and insight that the majority of these characters never fail to display, there would be no problem in deigning what Lymond's motives are, so hence assisting him in his endeavors.<br />Truly then, it's plain that Dorothy Dunnett's failings are of an admirable nature: for she's created characters of such vast depth and intelligence that there's no way ever to confound them.	2004-01-18
US	50121126	R170B40GGF21A7	155970649X	20930892	Falstaff: A Novel	Books	3	6	6	N	N	Desdemona, a word in your ear...	Falstaff, Prince Hal's bawdy mentor and pal in HENRY IV, was one of Shakespeare's more wonderful creations. Sadly, he was killed off at the beginning of the sequel, HENRY V, consumed of an affliction known as Drink in a room above Boar's Head tavern, thus depriving centuries of readers of all that might have been.<br />Robert Nye resurrects him here.  And he does it in a most ambitiously imaginative style. Having drunk from the elixir of life, our hero, at the ripe old age of 81, is every bit the endearingly outrageous blow-hard that Shakespeare created.  He laments, \\"-here I am, an old man in a dry month, having fought in the warm rain with Miranda yesterday, and at the hot gates of Harfleur and Hell with Harry Monmouth and the pride of England, heaving a cutlass, all that - here I am, employing my days in this making of Days, in this long act of recall of my youth and other follies.  It is no occupation for a gentleman.\\"  For certain it is not.  In fact, it's in the Gentlemanly Manners department that he invariably comes up a little slack-eyed.  Nye's Falstaff is, in short, a Dirty Old Man.<br />The novel has a fine beginning, though - Falstaff, dictating to five recruited & variously abused \\"secretaries,\\" chronicles his origins.  He claims to have descended from, amongst other colorful figures, a certain Gurth Fastolf, who fought for King Harold- \\"the story that he obtained (William the Conqueror's) favour by leading a miscellany of Saxons in the wrong direction - to wit, over a cliff on an escarpment near Dover, at the time of the skirmish at Hastings - is absolutely without foundation.  It is, in short, a lie put about by envious neighbours whose talents were never so complex as to catch the eye of William's wife Matilda, a dumpy woman but not beneath my great great great great grand-dad's notice.\\"<br />One cannot deny that the language throughout this novel is lively and amusing.  And Nye seems to have no problem at all keeping up with it.  The sideline tangents into various points in history - such as the Black Death and Pope Joan - mesh well with the battles and other momentous historical events, as seen through the eyes of Falstaff, taking place during the respective reigns of Henry IV and his son Hal (Henry V).  It is actually in the extraneous chapters, which all said comprise between 1/4 and 1/3 of the book, where I must draw my censure.  Throughout this novel, there are so many superfluous and long-winded stretches dedicated to such things as bodily functions, parts of the anatomy, and licentious sexual activity, that I inevitably came to a point where I couldn't read another word of such stuffing without rolling my eyes in profound exasperation, proceeding then to just skim right over it.<br />However, the chapters detailing Falstaff's part(s) in the battle of Gadshill, his invocation of Clio the muse of history, honor & onions, the number 7, and his own soul were entertaining.  The chapters dedicated to anything surrounding the battles of Shrewsbury or Agincourt, as well as the evolution of Falstaff's relationship with Prince Hal, were poignant and bittersweet.  Through the course of the novel, the reader develops a warm affection for each of the five \\"secretaries,\\" too - even Falstaff's malicious stepson, Stephen Scrope.  (In fact, Scrope may well be the embodiment of Reader's Revenge for the bulk of the braggart Falstaff's excessive wordage).<br />All in all, I would still give Mr. Nye's book 3.5 stars.  By the later chapters of Falstaff's Book of Days, I had actually come to look forward to reading the ornery old man's tall-tale narrative.ts into various points in history - such as the Black Death and Pope Joan - mesh well with the battles and other momentous historical events, as seen through the eyes of Falstaff, taking place during the respective reigns of Henry IV and his son Hal (Henry V).  It is actually in the extraneous chapters, which all said comprise between 1/4 and 1/3 of the book, where I must draw my censure.  Throughout this novel, there are so many superfluous and long-winded stretches dedicated to such things as bodily functions, parts of the anatomy, and licentious sexual activity, that I inevitably came to a point where I couldn't read another word of such stuffing without rolling my eyes in profound exasperation, proceeding then to just skim right over it.<br />However, the chapters detailing Falstaff's part(s) in the battle of Gadshill, his invocation of Clio the muse of history, honor & onions, the number 7, and his own soul were entertaining.  The chapters dedicated to anything surrounding the battles of Shrewsbury or Agincourt, as well as the evolution of Falstaff's relationship with Prince Hal, were poignant and bittersweet.  Through the course of the novel, the reader develops a warm affection for each of the five \\"secretaries,\\" too - even Falstaff's malicious stepson, Stephen Scrope.  (In fact, Scrope may well be the embodiment of Reader's Revenge for the bulk of the braggart Falstaff's excessive wordage).<br />All in all, I would still give Mr. Nye's book 3.5 stars.  By the later chapters of Falstaff's Book of Days, I had actually come to look forward to reading the ornery old man's tall-tale narrative.	2004-01-16
US	50121126	R158HCIWPU8ARE	0374280355	605962018	The Unburied	Books	4	6	6	N	N	A Parting Place of Ghosts	Charles Palliser is obviously a familiar of ghosts.  He has a penchant for weaving together the intricate threads of the Classic Victorian Mystery, ala Wilkie Collins, stark with the emphatic colours of the darkest side of human nature -Indeed- upon the furthest extent anything even the likes of Charles Dickens ever conceived! And his sense of atmosphere is uncanny.<br />Unlike with THE QUINCUNX, which I'd read a few weeks prior to picking up this one, Palliser tenders the gentle reader with a very likeable protagonist:  Dr. Edward Courtine.  Courtine is a Cambridge scholar who, in 1882, as he nears the age of 50, accepts an invitation from his old school chum, Austin Fickling, after some 20 years of separation stemming from a supposed betrayal.  Since Austin resides in the Cathedral Close of the ancient village of Thurchester, Courtine views the visit as more than just the renewal of their friendship -- For, somewhere within the vast labyrinth of the Cathedral Library, there supposedly houses an ancient manuscript confirming the heroism of the -notably obscure- 9th-century Saxon king, Alfred, of whom Courtine has long held a scholarly fascination.<br />When I say that Palliser has &quot;woven,&quot; I do mean that in almost the most literal sense: for he has intricately threaded four mysteries into one:  the earliest being that of Alfred the Great and the martyr, St. Wulflac.  Second is the unsolved 17th-century murder of a Canon-Treasurer, William Burgoyne, inside the Thurchester Cathedral itself.  Burgoyne's ghost appears to still haunt certain paths nearby the Cathedral.  Then, during the course of Courtine's visit, another murder takes place within the Close: that of a reclusive banker residing at the New Deanery, who was found to have been killed very shortly after Courtine and Fickling had had tea with him.  Finally, there's the mystery of Courtine himself - his past, his passions, and his own personal ghosts.  And by the time he leaves, some four days after having first arrived in Thurchester, Courtine finds himself less content with his life and how he's lived it.  But he's by far a wiser man.<br />Palliser's style of tale-telling is something one must develop a taste for reading.  He certainly has a tendency to get too tedious in his detailing, especially of historical elements.  There was quite a bit less active motion, especially during the first 1/3 of the novel, than one could have wished there to be.  Also, as with THE QUINCUNX, the reader may well be working out in their head a certain portion of the clues given, well before the hero does.  Yet, I must say that- though I read through the more than 800 pages of THE QUINCUNX without even the tinge of anxious thirst, nor verily a hunger pain- I had, by the end, found that it roused my brain sufficiently to really think about it, even -perchance- dream about it.  Thus, THE UNBURIED coerced its way into my perusal embrace.<br />And there's no denying that I'm very glad that it did.having first arrived in Thurchester, Courtine finds himself less content with his life and how he's lived it.  But he's by far a wiser man.<br />Palliser's style of tale-telling is something one must develop a taste for reading.  He certainly has a tendency to get too tedious in his detailing, especially of historical elements.  There was quite a bit less active motion, especially during the first 1/3 of the novel, than one could have wished there to be.  Also, as with THE QUINCUNX, the reader may well be working out in their head a certain portion of the clues given, well before the hero does.  Yet, I must say that- though I read through the more than 800 pages of THE QUINCUNX without even the tinge of anxious thirst, nor verily a hunger pain- I had, by the end, found that it roused my brain sufficiently to really think about it, even -perchance- dream about it.  Thus, THE UNBURIED coerced its way into my perusal embrace. <br />And there's no denying that I'm very glad that it did.	2003-11-29
US	50121126	R369H3EGRCOA6N	0741413892	21618571	Canceled Courtship	Books	3	1	2	N	N	A Fine & Fair Romance	I found reading CANCELLED COURTSHIP to be rather a pleasing little experience than not, having read it at my own behest of an afternoon's solitude in the sunshine.  Yet to this day I cannot say whether it was the winsome aspects of this story, or the breezy day's solicitude, which gave me most the pleasure.<br />Gloria Gay's latest Regency romance brings us a spunky young heroine, Cecilia Sentenell, embarking upon a glowing adventure coming out for her first Season in London.  She and her ailing father, Sir Geoffrey are accompanied by a woman claiming to be her late mother's friend, Lady Rolande and her daughter Hedra. Lady Rolande is intrusively solicitous with regards to both the care of Sir Geoffrey's failing health and to the agenda of Cecilia's entree into high society.  Furthermore, Hedra's manner towards Cecilia is an odd mixture of affectation and outright scorn - borne of jealousy, especially as regards the Earl of Arandale, a handsome and highly sought-after rake of a man.  Arandale, upon a promise made to his late father, is obliged to find a bride before his 30th birthday.  He is certain the young lady upon whom he bestows the honor of his choice would simply be too pleased to be Lady Arandale to have anything to say against his notorious womanizing, or in any way otherwise impede upon his lifestyle. - His choice almost immediately falls on Cecilia, as she seems modest, attractive and of sufficient social standing to court.  Cecilia will have none of it, though.  She has seen first hand Arandale's brash, indiscriminate ways.  So, to the utter amazement of everyone, she cancels the courtship.  Meanwhile, to further complicate Cecilia's life, Sir Geoffrey's evil heir, Alex Shackel is coercing his way into her life - fully intent on making her his bride, and by force if necessary.<br />CANCELLED COURTSHIP is in many ways similar to Ms. Gay's earlier Regency romance, FIRST SEASON.  It's an easy, fast-paced story - ideal for light reading.  There were, however, blatant shortcomings in this that weren't so noted in the earlier book.  Herein were more than a couple character inconsistencies, numerous editing flaws, and language that was uninspired:  careless, contemporary and (I hate to say it) often rather bland.  Apparently, the apathetic writing style here needs to catch up with the reverent knack for storytelling.<br />Nevertheless, this was a pleasurable read.  Despite the few faults I've found, I have faith that Gloria Gay is ultimately capable of very good things - and I indeed look forward to what's to come!er, blatant shortcomings in this that weren't so noted in the earlier book.  Herein were more than a couple character inconsistencies, numerous editing flaws, and language that was uninspired:  careless, contemporary and (I hate to say it) often rather bland.  Apparently, the apathetic writing style here needs to catch up with the reverent knack for storytelling.  <br />Nevertheless, this was a pleasurable read.  Despite the few faults I've found, I have faith that Gloria Gay is ultimately capable of very good things - and I indeed look forward to what's to come!	2003-09-07
US	50121126	R3D9VXNRVODZRH	0224601989	694137922	Casino Royale	Books	5	227	238	N	N	"Suivi"	Bond...James Bond is the name.  And the game is extreme Baccarat.  Ian Fleming's 1953 novel - premier introduction of the post WWII, fantastical cold war intrigues of Her Majesty's Secret Service's Master Spy, Agent 007, Bond - is a riveting read.<br />I first read CASINO ROYALE, as well as a few others in the series, while in my early teens - back when I'd only read stories in order to immerse myself in the plot - to find out what happens next, essentially - not caring a jot about writing style, descriptive detail, or character development.  Back then, I found it curious that the Bond of the books was so different from the Bond of the movies (THE SPY WHO LOVED ME and MOONRAKER being the contemporary releases of that time.) I wondered, for instance, why the James Bond in the movies didn't have black hair and why, in the books, he wasn't funny at all...Indeed - well, so much for my pre-adolescent review.<br />Now, more than 20 years later, indulging on a whim, I'm reading the series again.  And I must say I am thoroughly enjoying it - but not for the same reasons I had when I was young.  I'm actually nearly through it in its entirety - and must say that, though they're all very good, CASINO ROYALE has a palpable raw depth rarely visible in the rest.  I can now see and appreciate the fine quality of the writing, the extraordinary sculpturing of an ideal action hero, and the magical lure that has begotten the most well-known, long-standing film series of all time.  And, yes, these books are great fun!<br />\\"M,\\" head of the British Secret Service, hands Commander Bond what appears on the surface to be a posh assignment:  thwarting an enemy Russian spy, Le Chiffre, in his attempt to win an exorbitant 50 million francs - KGB funds which he had lost through an ill-advised investment in a chain of brothels.  Agent 007 lives an intensely hard lifestyle, and he's known to be the best gambler in the Service.  He's therefore assigned to break Le Chiffre's bank at the baccarat tables of the Casino Royale, in the French Riviera.<br />SMERSH, the Russian Secret Service in charge of all diplomatic killings for the Fatherland, is right on to Le Chiffre. Though he's very desperate, Le Chiffre happens to be a first rate baccarat player.  He plans on winning that 50 million francs at any cost, employing a couple of potent assassins enforced to help see it through.<br />Though James Bond must face Le Chiffre as a force of one at the baccarat table, he has his own team of assistants:  Rene' Mathis of the French branch, American CIA agent Felix Leiter, and the beautiful Vesper Lynd of the S branch of British Intelligence.  Vesper is officially the very first Bond girl - and she utterly mesmerizes our master spy: he sees her as an entity of wonder.<br />Truly, this story does not own any of the qualities that could easily be made into a movie.  There's plenty of tension, plenty of action, and quite a lot of romance to boot.  However the tension is mainly in the climatic card game, which, minus the author's excellent descriptive prose, would appear tedious on the screen; the action is definitely intense, but includes a harrowing torture scene which should not be witnessed by the squeamish; and, well, without the advantage of being able to follow the thoughts of our hero, a film version of this story might easily cause the romance to appear as carelessly thrown in.<br />Vesper's an intriguing Bond Girl, though.  Her fateful role exacts a twisted surprise ending, which inevitably sets the tone and atmosphere of Bond's future relationships with women.  This is perhaps the only book of the series wherein Bond takes a good, hard look at the moral portents of his own place in his profession - sort of a teasing glimpse into the window of his heart - but only that peek - as it seems thereafter shut fast and hard.  Keen, sharp, dark and moody: James Bond remains ever the quintessential Man of Mystery.ables of the Casino Royale, in the French Riviera.<br />SMERSH, the Russian Secret Service in charge of all diplomatic killings for the Fatherland, is right on to Le Chiffre. Though he's very desperate, Le Chiffre happens to be a first rate baccarat player.  He plans on winning that 50 million francs at any cost, employing a couple of potent assassins enforced to help see it through.  <br />Though James Bond must face Le Chiffre as a force of one at the baccarat table, he has his own team of assistants:  Rene' Mathis of the French branch, American CIA agent Felix Leiter, and the beautiful Vesper Lynd of the S branch of British Intelligence.  Vesper is officially the very first Bond girl - and she utterly mesmerizes our master spy: he sees her as an entity of wonder.<br />Truly, this story does not own any of the qualities that could easily be made into a movie.  There's plenty of tension, plenty of action, and quite a lot of romance to boot.  However the tension is mainly in the climatic card game, which, minus the author's excellent descriptive prose, would appear tedious on the screen; the action is definitely intense, but includes a harrowing torture scene which should not be witnessed by the squeamish; and, well, without the advantage of being able to follow the thoughts of our hero, a film version of this story might easily cause the romance to appear as carelessly thrown in.   <br />Vesper's an intriguing Bond Girl, though.  Her fateful role exacts a twisted surprise ending, which inevitably sets the tone and atmosphere of Bond's future relationships with women.  This is perhaps the only book of the series wherein Bond takes a good, hard look at the moral portents of his own place in his profession - sort of a teasing glimpse into the window of his heart - but only that peek - as it seems thereafter shut fast and hard.  Keen, sharp, dark and moody: James Bond remains ever the quintessential Man of Mystery.	2003-06-18
US	50121126	RPAHCHUMG7PI7	0192839640	109240111	Villette (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	4	16	18	N	N	A Soul's Disquietude	Charlotte Bronte writes with a depth of voice rarely known in English - nay, even World literature.  Her earlier novel, JANE EYRE, is in fact one of my most beloved novels of all time.<br />Her novel VILLETTE is almost wholly the story of an evolution - a remarkable enlightening, filled with the inner vivid color of one individual human soul.  The reader follows that soul past loss of family and fortune during childhood, afterwards making its way over the English Channel to a position earning bread in a school for girls.  While in this position, said soul must confront invasive jealousy, intense debilitating loneliness, self-absorbed and egotistic friendship, passion for a suitor out of reach, the alarm of ghostly spectres, and the pristine touch of unconditional love.<br />Initially I must say that Lucy Snow, confoundedly endearing heroine of VILLETTE, is no Jane Eyre:  No.  Not by any stretch of the imagination.  She is, in many ways, quite the opposite.  Lucy radically refrains wherein Jane restlessly yearns; Lucy's narration is demure and reticent, while Jane's is warm and open; in turn, the mettle of their respective heroes reflects sharp contrast as well: underneath surface fallibilities, Lucy's is painstakingly unveiled as a most pure moralistic ideal, whereas Jane's is possessed of ominous, deep-seated flaws despite a desperate heart of gold. Fate and providence, too, share sharply divergent roles in these two stories. Hence it must without further ado be disclosed that Charlotte Bronte's final novel was, overall, for me an arduous task to read.  Indeed it was! - But I do say this in the very best sense of that word.<br />Critically, I must say it was a challenge because of the overwhelming amount of French dialogue.  I realize that French was to some degree a universal language in Victorian England -quite fluently deciphered, read and spoken amongst the educated population...so I cannot on that note accuse the author of prosaic snobbery.  However, as an American in the 21st century, I cannot deny that my tentative knowledge of the French language to some extent limited my absorption of the dialogue.  However, this was only a small disadvantage - as I believe the gist is still there despite all.<br />Moreover, Lucy has an alluring, yet baffling personality- I love her, but cannot for the life of me understand her.  This tale is more of an inwardly emotional journey than anything eventfully climaxing or epically engaging.  Plot-wise, this merely treks the path of a young English woman completely alone in the world gaining her livelihood in a girls' school on the European continent.  Affecting the treads of that path are those, come by choice or obligation, closest to her:  her voyeuristic employer Madame Beck, friends - privileged &amp; affectionate childhood companion Polly and vain &amp; frivolous fellow student Ginerva - the handsome &amp; winsome Dr. John, and temperamental &amp; eccentric professor M. Paul.  It's truly an inward journey- a seeking and finding of one's own identity: the heroine - enthralled in a life as outwardly oppressive as it is inwardly rich - is undeniably endearing, her story wrought with so many sparkles of pain, so few of bliss.<br />Without doubt, the hand of providence - of God - is omnipresent in JANE EYRE.  In VILLETTE, it is conspicuously absent.  For me, to elaborate on this point would take thousands of more words - words which I am, fortunately, too lazy to write right now.  I can only say that, after reading both novels, one may be able to see this point as glaringly apparent.<br />Though my love for VILLETTE is nowhere near so great as my love for JANE EYRE, I must allow that it is in certain respects a greater literary achievement for Charlotte Bronte.  The writing herein persistently touches genius, and the characters are meticulously drawn and unforsakenly human.merican in the 21st century, I cannot deny that my tentative knowledge of the French language to some extent limited my absorption of the dialogue.  However, this was only a small disadvantage - as I believe the gist is still there despite all.<br />Moreover, Lucy has an alluring, yet baffling personality- I love her, but cannot for the life of me understand her.  This tale is more of an inwardly emotional journey than anything eventfully climaxing or epically engaging.  Plot-wise, this merely treks the path of a young English woman completely alone in the world gaining her livelihood in a girls' school on the European continent.  Affecting the treads of that path are those, come by choice or obligation, closest to her:  her voyeuristic employer Madame Beck, friends - privileged &amp; affectionate childhood companion Polly and vain &amp; frivolous fellow student Ginerva - the handsome &amp; winsome Dr. John, and temperamental &amp; eccentric professor M. Paul.  It's truly an inward journey- a seeking and finding of one's own identity: the heroine - enthralled in a life as outwardly oppressive as it is inwardly rich - is undeniably endearing, her story wrought with so many sparkles of pain, so few of bliss. <br />Without doubt, the hand of providence - of God - is omnipresent in JANE EYRE.  In VILLETTE, it is conspicuously absent.  For me, to elaborate on this point would take thousands of more words - words which I am, fortunately, too lazy to write right now.  I can only say that, after reading both novels, one may be able to see this point as glaringly apparent.<br />Though my love for VILLETTE is nowhere near so great as my love for JANE EYRE, I must allow that it is in certain respects a greater literary achievement for Charlotte Bronte.  The writing herein persistently touches genius, and the characters are meticulously drawn and unforsakenly human.	2003-06-15
US	50121126	R127TCOUDYF2NX	0066210844	226416014	The Archer's Tale (The Grail Quest, Book 1)	Books	3	3	7	N	N	Going Medieval	This violent, action-packed adventure is the first installment in what looks to be Bernard Cornwell's new Richard Sharpe-type series.  Though the Sharpe series is fairly well known and very easy to find, I cannot claim to have read any of those books, and so cannot make any comparisons.  This is, in fact, the first Cornwell book I've ever read.  I had hoped to be introduced to this author through his novel, STONEHENGE, as it had me somewhat intrigued, but alas that was not to be my fate.  I'd already had THE ARCHER'S TALE in my possession, and so I went to reading it.  Now, more than a few months since having finished it, I very well suspect it was a poor choice to begin on.<br />This story is set in England and France during the 14th century, the early beginnings of the Hundred Years War.  The hero is Thomas of Hookton, bastard son of an expatriate French nobleman living in a small village along the southern coast of England.  After that village is brutally attacked by French invaders and all its inhabitants, save Thomas, are killed, Thomas enlists himself as an archer in the English army of Edward III.<br />In his quest to recover the lance of St. George, a sacred relic stolen from Hookton's church during the attack, Thomas refines his skills in archery and battle strategy.  Throughout the story, it is in fact he who conceives key attack maneuvers that gain the English under the Earl of Northampton their victories, culminating finally with the famous battle at Crecy.  Along the way, he rescues a widowed French countess from wolfish English soldiers sacking her village.  He nurses her through trauma and, for a while, she becomes his cohort.  Though Thomas fights in France and Brittany for the sole purpose of avenging himself on the mysterious \\"Black Knight\\" who had led the attack on Hookton and then stolen the lance, it's essentially the vicious Sir Simon Jekyll, a young English knight also fighting in the Earl's army, who is Thomas's main adversary throughout the course of this novel.  While our hero gets himself into and out of one fine pickle after another, he bemoans the fact that he must ultimately fulfill the promise he made to his father to retrieve the sacred lance.  Indeed, he has trouble keeping himself focused on that goal, and without the constant prodding by a priest accompanying the army, Father Hobbe, he likely would have lost his way.<br />Cornwell's battle scenes are, as a whole, quite riveting, finely detailed and, far as I can tell, historically accurate.  They are also gruesome and bloody - with men and horses hacked up mercilessly. I know I cannot fault the book on this point - War, after all, is war.  It is upon other failings that I take censure:  this is neither an in depth story filled with endearing, highly evolved characters as in Follett's PILLARS OF THE EARTH, nor is it an epic tale of honor and chivalry as in Sir Walter Scott's IVANHOE - neither a meaningfully worded, rousing heroic, nor epically enchanting saga is this.  It is simply an historical adventure, and a graphically violent one at that.<br />THE ARCHER'S TALE concluded on a rather scintillating note - very well set up for a sequel.  That sequel is now out, and it's called VAGABOND.  For those who enjoy fast-paced adventures, this series may certainly make for some good reading.  I shall likely eventually give in and read VAGABOND sometime in the not so far distant future - as that mysterious Black Knight, Count Vexille \\"the Harlequin\\" is one of the more interesting villains I've come across in literature.  I'll just have to grit my teeth and swallow my aversion to all this widespread medieval carnage.course of this novel.  While our hero gets himself into and out of one fine pickle after another, he bemoans the fact that he must ultimately fulfill the promise he made to his father to retrieve the sacred lance.  Indeed, he has trouble keeping himself focused on that goal, and without the constant prodding by a priest accompanying the army, Father Hobbe, he likely would have lost his way.<br />Cornwell's battle scenes are, as a whole, quite riveting, finely detailed and, far as I can tell, historically accurate.  They are also gruesome and bloody - with men and horses hacked up mercilessly. I know I cannot fault the book on this point - War, after all, is war.  It is upon other failings that I take censure:  this is neither an in depth story filled with endearing, highly evolved characters as in Follett's PILLARS OF THE EARTH, nor is it an epic tale of honor and chivalry as in Sir Walter Scott's IVANHOE - neither a meaningfully worded, rousing heroic, nor epically enchanting saga is this.  It is simply an historical adventure, and a graphically violent one at that.<br />THE ARCHER'S TALE concluded on a rather scintillating note - very well set up for a sequel.  That sequel is now out, and it's called VAGABOND.  For those who enjoy fast-paced adventures, this series may certainly make for some good reading.  I shall likely eventually give in and read VAGABOND sometime in the not so far distant future - as that mysterious Black Knight, Count Vexille \\"the Harlequin\\" is one of the more interesting villains I've come across in literature.  I'll just have to grit my teeth and swallow my aversion to all this widespread medieval carnage.	2003-05-12
US	50121126	R147UXZIRWAZ7R	0679405437	363093333	Wuthering Heights (Everyman's Library )	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Haunting Tale of Ruthless Love	All of the novels of the Bronte sisters exhibit a genius of passion well surpassing their age.  Emily Bronte's WUTHERING HEIGHTS, however - though perhaps not quite so endearing as the novels of her sister, Charlotte - possesses the most adeptly pondering prose, egregiously fathoming the terrifying extremes of love and hate.<br />Born amidst the feral landscape of England's Yorkshire moors, the Earnshaw family and their ramshackle farm estate, Wuthering Heights, are at the center of this manifestly heartrending story. Mr. and Mrs. Earnshaw, with the help of several servants - most notably their poignantly observant maid Nellie, and their pious and stoic manservant Joseph - are raising two children:  a son, Hindley, and his younger sister, Cathy.  On a cold and drizzly evening, when Hindley's but a teenager and Cathy still a very small child, Mr. Earnshaw returns from Liverpool carrying a young urchin he'd found starving in the streets.  Despite wary opposition from his family, he adopts the four or five year-old child and names him Heathcliff.  Mr. Earnshaw, over the next several years, develops a fond affection for Heathcliff that surpasses even that which he feels for his own son.  Mrs. Earnshaw dies not long after Heathcliff joins the family, then Mr. Earnshaw dies several years afterwards.  From thereon, Hindley relentlessly vents a deeply embedded bitterness borne of jealousy upon his adopted younger brother.<br />Hindley's hatred of Heathcliff is the force that drives this story on.  His sister Cathy, however, from a very young age is as drawn to Heathcliff's quiet thoughtfulness, as he to her flighty impulsiveness.  The two of them nurture a very deep friendship as children, which grows to an almost otherworldly love as young adults.  This tempestuous love gets devastatingly shaken not only by Hindley's efforts to keep Heathcliff in the drudge, but also by wooings for Cathy from a wealthy blue-eyed suitor from Thrushcross Grange, a neighboring estate.  This young strapping is Edgar Linton, and he as well as his sister Isabella cut a very severe contrast to Heathcliff.  The Lintons are fair-haired, refined in manner, and have very openly expressive countenances.  Heathcliff, on the other hand, casts a dark, gloomy aspect:  intensely handsome despite dirty, messy hair and thick-browed brooding eyes.  Truly Cathy's audacious, tempestuous spirit, wild as the blustering wind on the Yorkshire moors, is pure soul mate to Heathcliff's moody, devil of a gypsy, hot-blooded heart.  \\"My love for Linton is like the foliage in the woods,\\" she says, \\"time will change it, I'm well aware, as winter changes the trees.  My love for Heathcliff resembles the eternal rocks beneath: a source of little visible delight, but necessary.\\"  Never - in all of the novels I've ever read - have soul mates been so intensely, so uncannily written.<br />The only fault I find in this story is the utter lack of endearing qualities in either Cathy or in Heathcliff.  Each displays, at turns, some form of careless frivolity or ruthless cruelty in either their actions or their words.  And though I certainly cannot help but feel for their struggles and their pain, neither are the type individuals with whom I would possibly want to become a friend.  They are amazingly self-absorbed, and wholly blinded by the radiance of each other.<br />Mistake me not, though - reading WUTHERING HEIGHTS was indeed a wondrous experience.  The writing interweaves the earthly elements, the people, and the landscape haunted by their ghosts with a deftness that's extraordinary.  There is undeniable genius here - a brilliantly intense story of a love that refuses to be thwarted, coursing through the heart and soul of the next generation, thence onward, and beyond the grave.oung strapping is Edgar Linton, and he as well as his sister Isabella cut a very severe contrast to Heathcliff.  The Lintons are fair-haired, refined in manner, and have very openly expressive countenances.  Heathcliff, on the other hand, casts a dark, gloomy aspect:  intensely handsome despite dirty, messy hair and thick-browed brooding eyes.  Truly Cathy's audacious, tempestuous spirit, wild as the blustering wind on the Yorkshire moors, is pure soul mate to Heathcliff's moody, devil of a gypsy, hot-blooded heart.  \\"My love for Linton is like the foliage in the woods,\\" she says, \\"time will change it, I'm well aware, as winter changes the trees.  My love for Heathcliff resembles the eternal rocks beneath: a source of little visible delight, but necessary.\\"  Never - in all of the novels I've ever read - have soul mates been so intensely, so uncannily written.<br />The only fault I find in this story is the utter lack of endearing qualities in either Cathy or in Heathcliff.  Each displays, at turns, some form of careless frivolity or ruthless cruelty in either their actions or their words.  And though I certainly cannot help but feel for their struggles and their pain, neither are the type individuals with whom I would possibly want to become a friend.  They are amazingly self-absorbed, and wholly blinded by the radiance of each other.<br />Mistake me not, though - reading WUTHERING HEIGHTS was indeed a wondrous experience.  The writing interweaves the earthly elements, the people, and the landscape haunted by their ghosts with a deftness that's extraordinary.  There is undeniable genius here - a brilliantly intense story of a love that refuses to be thwarted, coursing through the heart and soul of the next generation, thence onward, and beyond the grave.	2003-04-15
US	50121126	R7DTGO7KD3UK0	1568497296	25935067	Wide Sargasso Sea	Books	3	29	37	N	N	Wide & Murky Sargasso Sea	Jean Rhys's enduring 1966 novel has been one of the more unique opuses of my reading experience - for, though it's been some two or three years since I've read it, I've been stumped - unable to form any very distinct or profound impression.  Even at this point, I can only say that WIDE SARGASSO SEA is an ingenious work of poignant contradictions.<br />I actually first heard of this book a few years ago, when I rented a movie by the same name.  I watched that movie and, despite a few minute clues, did not until the very end recognize it as being prequel to one of my all-time most beloved novels: Charlotte Bronte's JANE EYRE. This story chronicles the untold tale in Bronte's novel - the history and mystery behind Mr. Rochester's secret in the attic unveiled, the madwoman in the attic endowed with a soul.  \\"Bertha\\" Antoinette Cosway-Mason is a Creole heiress living in Jamaica and Dominica in the 1830's whose isolated and tragic upbringing is augmented by the cultural chaos of that place and that time.  Shunned by both the English and white population and the recently freed slaves, then further burdened by her manipulative relatives and insane mother, Antoinette's childhood and early adulthood was as intensely oppressive as was the beauty of her surroundings.  The first chapters of this novel are told in her voice - and what a marvelous voice it is - such richness, such poetry - \\"Great splashes of sunlight as we ran up the wooden steps of the refectory. Hot coffee and rolls and melting butter. But after the meal, now and at the hour of our death, and at midday and at six in the evening, now and at the hour of our death. Let perpetual light shine on them.\\"  The tempo simply flows right through you; it is beautiful.<br />Rhys's lyrical prose is beyond doubt a manner of genius; and I do believe this book is worthy of a classic.  It really could have been brilliant, but it is riddled with flaws.  First of all, the language is so exquisitely overflowing that it's almost a distraction.  Yet within the context of the first section of the story - Antoinette's voice, encompassing her life before her marriage - I suppose may be overlooked and given up to the whims of the narrator.<br />The second section, however, is from Mr. Rochester's point of view - from his first acquaintance with his bride and to their home in the West Indies, nearly through the balance of their time together on the islands.  Rochester, who at the time is a very young English gentleman: a second son raised within the stringent confines of British landed gentry - arrives in a place totally alien to anything he has ever known, completely wide-eyed and ignorant of everything, from the temperamental weather patterns to the quirks of the denizens of that place.  Yet Rhys gives him a lush, worldly and poetic voice, not at all unlike that of Antoinette's.  In fact, when the narration switches briefly back to her, it's only distinguishable by studying closely the sway of the narration and pronoun use.  Antoinette, incidentally, never refers to Rochester by name at any time during the entire book.  Truly, though the author had essentially free reign with the character of \\"Bertha,\\" as that entity was only faintly drawn out in JANE EYRE, she was considerably restricted when it came to Rochester.  In drawing him out, Rhys has failed on two counts:  the first in that his language sounds too embedded within the lyrical rhythms of the alien landscape he supposedly fears and does not understand, to ever ring true for a young man of his circumstances; the second in that, notwithstanding the anger and bitterness felt toward his father and elder brother, Mr. Rochester's actions in this story do not in any way ring true to the man as Bronte wrote him.  He's barely recognizable.<br />The third, and final, portion of the story reverts back to Antoinette's point of view - this time from the garret room of Thornfield Hall.  Though the writing here remains quite pretty, the narration completely loses its coherence.  This loss may be construed as understandable - as the narrator would by now be quite mad - but it just doesn't strike true.  The language is inconsistent - smooth and flowing in places, choppy in others.  The tragic consequences of a bitter young man's revenge and a damaged young woman's confusion gets entirely lost here in the author's imposingly scattered prose.<br />I am sure that, judged in its own right, this novel can quite easily be classified as a work of art.  But loving JANE EYRE as I do, I am sorely unqualified to make the distinction.  Yet I cannot deny that I was mesmerized by the overwhelmingly lush impact of the writing in WIDE SARGASSO SEA.  Sick with a lingering fever and lamenting his fate, the young bridegroom makes the trudging maiden journey with his new bride to their honeymoon house in an island place called Massacre ~ \\"Everything is too much, I felt as I rode wearily after her.  Too much blue, too much purple, too much green. The flowers too red, the mountains too high, the hills too near.  And the woman is a stranger.\\"<br />Ah, yes indeed ~pletely loses its coherence.  This loss may be construed as understandable - as the narrator would by now be quite mad - but it just doesn't strike true.  The language is inconsistent - smooth and flowing in places, choppy in others.  The tragic consequences of a bitter young man's revenge and a damaged young woman's confusion gets entirely lost here in the author's imposingly scattered prose. <br />I am sure that, judged in its own right, this novel can quite easily be classified as a work of art.  But loving JANE EYRE as I do, I am sorely unqualified to make the distinction.  Yet I cannot deny that I was mesmerized by the overwhelmingly lush impact of the writing in WIDE SARGASSO SEA.  Sick with a lingering fever and lamenting his fate, the young bridegroom makes the trudging maiden journey with his new bride to their honeymoon house in an island place called Massacre ~ \\"Everything is too much, I felt as I rode wearily after her.  Too much blue, too much purple, too much green. The flowers too red, the mountains too high, the hills too near.  And the woman is a stranger.\\"  <br />Ah, yes indeed ~	2003-04-05
US	50121126	R29DLNKCC3IO3X	0395292026	120623007	Rotten Ralph	Books	5	47	48	N	N	Bad Kitty!	Ralph is a very bad kitty, as is generally what cats thrive on being.  He is often rude, knocks things over, disrupts social occasions, makes sport of preying on pet birds, fish or rodents, and purposely exacerbates the one annoying, albeit universally inherent, trait in dogs:  obnoxiousness.  After one especially horrid, feline-induced fiasco at the circus, Sarah's father determines that he's had enough of Ralph and gives him the boot.  Ralph's consequential homeless journey thus necessitates him a good look inwardly, seeking the key to whatever could possibly save him from being lost forever to his comfortable home and family...<br />Not so very many years ago, I had the very great pleasure of reading over and over and over, and over immeasurable, this fine tale of haphazardness, naughtiness, chastisement, and redemption.  So I'll now tell you a little tale of my own - a personal pathway, of sorts, toward eminent endearment of this sweet little book:<br />Several years ago, a little child went with her mother and father to a book signing in downtown Chicago.  The name of the book escapes me now, but alas, it's irrelevant to this story.  John Lydon (\\"Johnny Rotten\\" of Sex Pistols fame) was doing the signing for some newly published writing affair at a trendy north side bookstore.  As Mr. Rotten has always had a great dedicated following, the line for this book, to be graced with his signature, was immensely long.  The little girl, wearing a pink winter coat and purple ribbons in her hair, was the only child present in a snaking line omnipresent in the aisles throughout with multiply tattooed and body-pierced fans.  Yet she was neither intimidated nor gainsaid as she quietly recited her favorite nursery rhymes, picking up to browse each prettily covered book she saw.  She was ever patient, and even after over an hour of waiting would smile sweetly to strangers' questions and comments as she held onto her mother's hand.<br />Finally, after what seemed like an infinitesimal wait, she and her parents reached the front portion of the line. Then, all hearts fell as the gentleman just ahead of her family, a tall thin young man with long silky black & blue-streaked hair and an earring was told the featured book had just sold out - that there were absolutely no more copies.  Dejected and deflated, all those remaining in the line began to take their leave.<br />This little girl, however, would have nothing of it.  \\"But we came here for a book!\\" she cried loud enough for anyone in the store to hear, \\"I want that book!\\"  Before either of her parents could chastise her for this outburst, Mr. Rotten spoke up with that beautifully enunciated British accent he has, and said, \\"You want a book?  I'm sorry...uh, but we...Wait - This child wants a book! - Oh yes, never fear, little one; I will get you a book.\\"  A consummate gentleman, he merely snapped his fingers to one of his assistants and pointed to a nearby display at the edge of the children's section, and said, \\"I want to give her that book.\\"<br />ROTTEN RALPH was the chosen book's title.  My daughter's copy is signed by Johnny Rotten, the inside jacket adorned with a Polaroid photo taken of herself, her new book, and the kindest punk rock star on earth.  Truly, upon many a night for perhaps the next two years that followed, ROTTEN RALPH was included in our nightly ritual of bedtime stories.  And though our cat George was often annoyed that he was forced to sit, listen and learn, neither my girl nor I ever tired of reading it.itesimal wait, she and her parents reached the front portion of the line. Then, all hearts fell as the gentleman just ahead of her family, a tall thin young man with long silky black & blue-streaked hair and an earring was told the featured book had just sold out - that there were absolutely no more copies.  Dejected and deflated, all those remaining in the line began to take their leave.<br />This little girl, however, would have nothing of it.  \\"But we came here for a book!\\" she cried loud enough for anyone in the store to hear, \\"I want that book!\\"  Before either of her parents could chastise her for this outburst, Mr. Rotten spoke up with that beautifully enunciated British accent he has, and said, \\"You want a book?  I'm sorry...uh, but we...Wait - This child wants a book! - Oh yes, never fear, little one; I will get you a book.\\"  A consummate gentleman, he merely snapped his fingers to one of his assistants and pointed to a nearby display at the edge of the children's section, and said, \\"I want to give her that book.\\"  <br />ROTTEN RALPH was the chosen book's title.  My daughter's copy is signed by Johnny Rotten, the inside jacket adorned with a Polaroid photo taken of herself, her new book, and the kindest punk rock star on earth.  Truly, upon many a night for perhaps the next two years that followed, ROTTEN RALPH was included in our nightly ritual of bedtime stories.  And though our cat George was often annoyed that he was forced to sit, listen and learn, neither my girl nor I ever tired of reading it.	2002-12-12
US	50121126	R3NDMLN7BIZM2C	0449907481	785795777	A Thousand Acres (Ballantine Reader's Circle)	Books	2	17	32	N	N	Just Kill Me Now	Some four years ago when I began reading A THOUSAND ACRES, Jane Smiley's modern-day take on Shakespeare's KING LEAR, I was all but overflowing with the greatest anticipation.  There was promise of a tale epic in Shakespearean scale, a winner of more than one prominent literary award, an Oprah Book Club pick, an intriguingly picturesque cover, and - most delicious of all, a subtle poetry in Smiley's lovely prose.  Now, after all these years I still grimace to think that I actually read all the way through to the end of this book, even now unable to shake the feeling that each of those gentle allurements was a deliberate feint concealing the true state of things:  The book is a fiendishly depraved work of literature bent on sucking the soul dry. Indeed it's a sinister novel, cunningly using to the limit each sundry enticement at hand in order to slowly draw the reader into Hell.<br />The story's premise is harmless enough: the saga of an Iowa farm family, Larry Cook and his three daughters - Ginny, Rose, and Caroline.  Ginny, from whose point of view this tale is told, is the dutiful farm wife.  She makes meals not only for her husband, Tyler, but also for her father who lives down the lane in the family's original farmstead, and for Rose, who's recently undergone chemotherapy for breast cancer, and Rose's family: husband Pete and two daughters Pammy and Linda. \\"My morning at the stove started before five and didn't end until eight-thirty,\\" states Ginny, so affirming that all is steady, tranquil and wholesome in the wide-open Heartland.  It is only in Chapter 4, when the rapidly aging Mr. Cook decides to give his thousand acres of land to his daughters then disinherits Caroline because she is initially hesitant and skeptical to the scheme, that this deceptively quaint story begins to unravel its shroud.<br />Mistake me not: Smiley's opening chapters are ingenious.  Within them are exquisite descriptions of life on a farm: insightful detail as to the science and economics of farming, as well as vivid delineation of the vast, flat, open, yet somehow limited view of the world farm dwellers hold. Take, for example, Ginny's childhood memory of riding in the backseat of her family's Buick:<br />\\"For me, it was a pleasure like a secret hoard of coins - Rose, whom I adored, sitting against me in the hot musty velvet luxury of the car's interior, the click of the gravel on its undercarriage, the sensation of the car swimming in the rutted road, the farms passing every minute, reduced from vastness to insignificance by our speed;\\"<br />After reading the first couple chapters, I even felt so good about this book as to muse that my own father, a midwestern farmer, might himself enjoy reading it.  Oh my!  How mistaken I was, and how extremely relieved I am that further reading prevented me from even contemplating such a consideration!<br />Longtime neighbors to the Cooks are Harold Clark and his sons, Loren and Jess.  Loren is a gentle and kind man who with his father farms their land.  Jess, the prodigal son, has just returned home after 13 years of no contact with his family.  Both Ginny and Rose succumb to his charms, and each begins an adulterous affair with him within weeks of his homecoming.  This, along with the events coinciding Larry Cook's retirement, drudges up dark passions and dirty secrets, like so much sludge after a bad storm.  Admittedly, there is never anything wrong with having dark dirty elements to a story; but in this one they keep funneling deeper and more intensely out of control - evolving the thing into a veritable black hole.  Just when you think it couldn't get any more consumed in tragedy, it does.  You're left finally with not even a wisp's chance of hope or redemption.<br />Notwithstanding all the pretty writing, I suppose I should have noted early on the clues to this story's rotten underside, the toxins hidden deep within the landscape becoming slowly absorbed by all those who dwell therein:  the sickness, lust, perversion, adultery, incest, barrenness, loneliness, despair, hatred, madness, and death.  But I didn't.  As I read fiction in order to escape many of the evils and the burdens of this world, I still feel angry that I should have wasted my time reading something that only serves to intensify my negative feelings.<br /><br />I am therefore left to conclude that this book is the Devil: an ugly, mean-spirited, pockmarked beast craftily enshrouded under a thin veiled layer of beguiling beauty..., lust, perversion, adultery, incest, barrenness, loneliness, despair, hatred, madness, and death.   But I didn't.  As I read fiction in order to escape many of the evils and the burdens of this world, I still feel angry that I should have wasted my time reading something that only serves to intensify my negative feelings. <BR> <BR>I am therefore left to conclude that this book is the Devil: an ugly, mean-spirited, pockmarked beast craftily enshrouded under a thin veiled layer of beguiling beauty...	2002-12-08
US	50121126	R14JJI7P4PHP8O	0741406993	464718661	First Season	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Quite Pleasant Reading	I stole a couple of hours upon a sunny late Spring afternoon to sit on my porch swing and lose myself in the light, pleasurable read, FIRST SEASON.  With iced tea and tangerines at my side, a cushion to rest my weary feet, and the fragrant scent of lilac in the air, I could not miss the moment.  The breeze was just right.<br />Even the book's cover was lovely - a painting by the author, Gloria Gay, herself - which I easily imagined to be the scene of FIRST SEASON's most romantic encounter.<br />As Jane Austen's Catherine Moreland first enters society chaperoned by Mr. & Mrs. Allen in Bath, Gay's beautiful Fantine Delmere makes her entrance under the sponsorship and in the company of the handsome Earl of Ashcom, of whom her family has been dependant for generations.  It is due to this dependency that Fantine is reluctant to leave her quiet home to fly headlong into the extravagances of London Society.  She conveys her contempt of the scheme in no uncertain terms to Lord Ashcom when he arrives to meet her for the first time.  Ashcom, who was already quite weary of the obligations toward Fantine's family, is shocked and incensed by her insolence.  In retaliation, he demands that she spend the season in London at his expense under threat of cutting off all support for her family.<br />Fantine's first season in London is a whirlwind of activity:  fine new clothes, social gatherings, outings, and balls.  What I must say, in my one criticism of the story, is that all this appears to be nothing short of a wondrous dream come true for any young lady in Regency England.  Therefore I cannot fathom how a girl like Fantine could so adamantly try to refuse such a chance, no matter how resentful she is of its sponsor.  Upon her arrival in London, she is at once drawing the admiration of many in the realm of fashionable society, including more than one agreeable suitor.  Yet all the while, unbeknownst to her, she's arousing the jealousy of a certain potent few within that  same realm.  This, however, as it turns out, is not her only dilemma:  before she realizes it herself, she has fallen in love with Lord Ashcom, who still appears to be harboring quite a bit of resentment from the harsh and insulting words she spat at him upon their first meeting.<br />Overall, this book is a very fun page-turner, as you come to care how Fantine overcomes enemies who seemingly would stop at nothing to remove her from the basking glow of good society, and of how she comes to terms with her budding relationship with the Earl of Ashcom.  It's a very pleasant story that can easily be read in one sitting upon some sunny afternoon.alm.    This, however, as it turns out, is not her only dilemma:  before she realizes it herself, she has fallen in love with Lord Ashcom, who still appears to be harboring quite a bit of resentment from the harsh and insulting words she spat at him upon their first meeting.  <br />Overall, this book is a very fun page-turner, as you come to care how Fantine overcomes enemies who seemingly would stop at nothing to remove her from the basking glow of good society, and of how she comes to terms with her budding relationship with the Earl of Ashcom.  It's a very pleasant story that can easily be read in one sitting upon some sunny afternoon.	2002-06-19
US	50121126	R1LDKM8A6CR4JV	0967481708	108229958	The Bar Sinister, Pride and Prejudice Continues	Books	4	16	20	N	N	A Fairly Fine Enough Amusement	I have, in some way at least, begun reading every sequel to the novels of Jane Austen that I could get my hands on in all these recent years, but have curiously found myself endeavoring upon the completion of precious few. Admittedly, I most fervently favoured those pieces which were the continuations of PRIDE AND PREJUDICE, especially in light of that 1995 A&E Production starring Jennifer Ehle and Colin Firth, whom almost every female reader in the entire spectrum of the English speaking world was bound to fall in love with!! Well...<br />In spite of all my feelings, I have happily succeeded in completing this one.<br />I must advise, before you go on reading this, that I've partaken of almost as much spirit this very evening as any thirstily besotted Lord!  Thereby, as well as therefore and without burden heretofore, I cannot by you be made responsible for any uncomely occurrences of grammatical exuberances or typographical despondencies which routinely occur in the course of such excursions. Indeed, if you've read this book, you've obviously forgiven any and all such occurrences, as heretofore I have since done.<br />Mind you, I've not made a grammatical error yet:  (I am very attentive to such stuff.)<br />At this juncture, I am naturally quite too inebriated to determine whether I should begin my review with my utter disparagements, or with my exalted ravings, of this most inviting work of scandalous literature! As I am herewith having gone an expounding whole paragraph (or, rather, several) into my review, without having said barely a thing about its subject, I must thus let my words come out all blustering and discombobulated as they may:<br />As to the arts of grammar and typological consistency, I must say that this is a work wanting of them, sporadically and without warrant, throughout - even to the point of suspicion that this author had not the means or even the desire to make use of a simple word-processing Punctuation and Spell Check.<br />Yet the language is lively - and truly in the spirit of love of Jane Austen's work.  Indeed, BAR SINISTER is the closest to her manner of language that I've yet found in modern writing.  Howbeit, I can appreciate it only to a certain point.  Without doubt, there is to be found in this unabashed novel that quality of writing which ingeniously catches the Spirit of a Regency Period English Writer - (well, at least whatever a 21st century literary enthusiast may discern it to be.)  However, PRIDE AND PREJUDICE this is not.  Ah, but I do detect a spark that indeed deigns to acknowledge the brilliance and exquisiteness of that Classic Author - Jane Austen.  It cannot be denied that THE BAR SINISTER is witty, and the characters carry on quite as they ever were - albeit in some cases becoming rather more caricatures of themselves - as most poignantly displayed in Mr. Wickham and Lady Catherine de Bourgh.  Though THE BAR SINISTER does not seem to come near the biting cleverness of Jane Austen's original, it cannot be denied that there is a genuine attempt (and a heartily successful one, at that) to keep the P&P characters very well within the scope of each their countenances.  Truly, even the mere contemplation of this achievement lends this novel a credit that cannot be denied.<br />However, it should be advised that this is a book that ultimately does not come close, even a wisp's worth, of the wholesomeness or the innocence that Miss Austen's books embody.  There is much gratuitous sex and scandal to be found herein.  To be sure, it cannot be denied to all who are alive today and hearing of, reading of, or even existing within, all that the volatile confines of the 21st century have had to offer, must own that despite the gift of some writers to look into the seemingly ageless soul of human interaction, Jane Austen has never been equaled in her genius for being able to find that perfect balance of darkness and lightness.  Linda Berdoll naturally falls short of Austen's gifts.  Yet Iinevitably cannot blame her.  She is, after all, only human.<br />THE BAR SINISTER is exactly as it should be.  It's Entertaining - in every sense of the word - and though it may follow the 1995 A&E Mini-Series a bit more closely than the Novel on which it is based, it must be acknowledged that it is Artful, Funny, and Endearing.<br />It's indeed An Entertainment.  It's the best Jane Austen sequel I've read so far.  The depth of feeling between Lizzy and Mr. Darcy never falters - And, as in the context of PRIDE AND PREJUDICE, it will endure.I inevitably cannot blame her.  She is, after all, only human.  <br />THE BAR SINISTER is exactly as it should be.  It's Entertaining - in every sense of the word - and though it may follow the 1995 A&E Mini-Series a bit more closely than the Novel on which it is based, it must be acknowledged that it is Artful, Funny, and Endearing.  <br />It's indeed An Entertainment.  It's the best Jane Austen sequel I've read so far.  The depth of feeling between Lizzy and Mr. Darcy never falters - And, as in the context of PRIDE AND PREJUDICE, it will endure.	2002-04-21
US	50121126	RZSFXFG6BZHVO	0671247557	63633228	The Feast of All Saints	Books	5	127	129	N	N	Remembering the Gone and Forgotten	Here - coincidently on this night of All Souls - floating through my brain are thoughts on this Anne Rice novel, which indeed is one of her best.<br />Before I mention all that this fine novel is, let me state precisely what it is not:  It's not a book to be read quickly - for if you are used to reading through things briskly, with the urgent anticipation of the next read always at hand - then this one is sure to frustrate you; It's not an eventful or an adventurous storyline - though A.R. has written quite a few fast-moving tales, this one is slow and meticulous in both movement and detail; There is no absolute line drawn between the hero and adversary in this plot - every character is given a point of view in order to be understood, and elaborated upon until for certain it is understood.<br />This is a novel unlike most novels.  Set in New Orleans before the Civil War, FEAST OF ALL SAINTS is the story of a distinct yet veritably unknown society of people - numbering approximately 18,000 at that time - they were the free people of color.  Free people of color were individuals of white and black mixed blood.  They were a fragile society made up of those hovering between the established white population and the slaves.  The unique and complex city of New Orleans gave this well-educated and interesting group of people a place in which to flourish.  In fact, Voodoo queen Marie Laveau was a free person of color.  Inarguably, her life has already been explored in works of both fact and fiction.  Yet in this well-researched novel, Anne Rice brings to life fictional characters and gives such insight into the lives of these fascinating people as has likely never been seen.<br />The protagonist, Marcel, is an adolescent whose parents are Phillipe, a wealthy &amp; prominent plantation owner with a family outside New Orleans, and Cecil, his mistress, a free person of color.  He is blond and blue-eyed, but with distinct African features - &quot;combined in an unusual way that was extremely handsome and clearly undesirable.&quot;  Marcel's younger sister Marie, however is dark-haired, beautiful, and could pass for a white person.<br />Marcel is growing up assured of the knowledge that his father will send him to Paris to be educated as soon he is of age.  Christophe, an author and free person of color who has been educated in France, becomes his mentor when he returns to New Orleans to open up a school.  He also has two close friends - Richard, son of a wealthy undertaker, and Anna Bella.  With every person in his life, there is a uniquely complex relationship.<br />This, I must say, is very much a coming-of-age story.  Yet - it rises above even that as it intertwines like a patient kind of poetry the feelings of isolation wrought from being misunderstood.  It gives credence to the certainty that there can actually be drawn from within the soul of a person  (and that all people possess certain qualities of the Saints) that which can overcome even the most intense adversity.<br />This was only her second novel - after INTERVIEW WITH THE VAMPIRE.  As in her first book, her characters are insatiable in their quest for meaning to their existence, yet are isolated from society.  This novel differs in that Marcel is not left with feelings of desolation as was Louis.  Marcel seems in all respects to be much more further evolved - which in so many ways reflects the spirit of this fine author - for this protagonist grows to be able to envision the many possibilities his future holds.was extremely handsome and clearly undesirable.&quot;  Marcel's younger sister Marie, however is dark-haired, beautiful, and could pass for a white person.<br />Marcel is growing up assured of the knowledge that his father will send him to Paris to be educated as soon he is of age.  Christophe, an author and free person of color who has been educated in France, becomes his mentor when he returns to New Orleans to open up a school.  He also has two close friends - Richard, son of a wealthy undertaker, and Anna Bella.  With every person in his life, there is a uniquely complex relationship.<br />This, I must say, is very much a coming-of-age story.  Yet - it rises above even that as it intertwines like a patient kind of poetry the feelings of isolation wrought from being misunderstood.  It gives credence to the certainty that there can actually be drawn from within the soul of a person  (and that all people possess certain qualities of the Saints) that which can overcome even the most intense adversity.  <br />This was only her second novel - after INTERVIEW WITH THE VAMPIRE.  As in her first book, her characters are insatiable in their quest for meaning to their existence, yet are isolated from society.  This novel differs in that Marcel is not left with feelings of desolation as was Louis.  Marcel seems in all respects to be much more further evolved - which in so many ways reflects the spirit of this fine author - for this protagonist grows to be able to envision the many possibilities his future holds.	2001-11-03
US	50121126	R3ODMWHG4RVAG4	067976397X	659658614	Corelli's Mandolin: A Novel	Books	5	8	12	N	N	A Greek Tragedy - Yet The Stuff Of Dreams	Indeed this is a story that touches the air within elusive, quiet Paradise here on earth.  Such a place - ah - and such a feeling - may only be reveled within the wisp of a moment, if even, if ever, at all!  Yet every tale imposes upon its own space of time and place, or otherwise - but always somewhere, sometime...its ideal.<br />  Oh I get so beyond myself! I forever digress...<br />  This is a magnificent novel, taking place within &quot;the half-forgotten island of Cephallonia, &quot; which, &quot;rises improvidently and inadvisably from the Ionian Sea; it is an island so immense in antiquity that the very rocks themselves exhale nostalgia and the red earth lies stupefied not only by the sun, but by the impossible weight of memory.&quot;  So writes Dr. Iannis, a character who so fascinates me that I am compelled to believe that I once was him - or someone very like him - in a previous life.  Yet I may be sorely mistaken:  I could just as well have been someone very like his daughter, Pelagia!<br />  I cannot help but say that every one of the characters in this heart-breaking, beautiful story comes forth emboldened with a multi-prismed soul.  I cannot help but say that every word read herein is beautiful music to a reader's searching eye.  I cannot help but say that this novel, in its lovely singularity, has quenched my thirst - if only for a while ~~<br />  WWII is the theatre of this tale:  An isolated Greek island - inhabited by the gods of times gone by, its breezes entwined within an aura of ancient memories &amp; tradition - with a peaceful, bright, and humble manner of living coursing through the blood of its inhabitants. Therein lies a timeless and deeply manifested manner of existence.  This may be a small, insignificant tale if you consider the overwhelmingly tragic effect upon the courses of countries, masses of individuals, even the history of humanity that this war, or any war, has imposed.  But when the Italians invade and occupy Cephallonia, the quiet dwellers therein are thrown into the tumultuous forward pull of the history of the world.  They come to learn the hard way that to defend oneself against the enemy - or sometimes even to identify the enemy itself - requires immense physical, emotional, and intellectual stamina. For some of them, this proves horrifically impossible and beyond all ordinary comprehension.<br />  Somehow, almost magically, De Bernieres embraces the vast scope of this momentous period of time - and communicates its effects upon the history of humanity with a striking brilliance rarely seen in modern writing!  The many wonderful characters of this beautifully written novel have won over even my own sluggish heart - which flies whimsically overhead now in dreams, hoping to claim therein my very own piece of earth upon the shores of those endless, ancient tides ~lonia, the quiet dwellers therein are thrown into the tumultuous forward pull of the history of the world.  They come to learn the hard way that to defend oneself against the enemy - or sometimes even to identify the enemy itself - requires immense physical, emotional, and intellectual stamina. For some of them, this proves horrifically impossible and beyond all ordinary comprehension.<br />     Somehow, almost magically, De Bernieres embraces the vast scope of this momentous period of time - and communicates its effects upon the history of humanity with a striking brilliance rarely seen in modern writing!  The many wonderful characters of this beautifully written novel have won over even my own sluggish heart - which flies whimsically overhead now in dreams, hoping to claim therein my very own piece of earth upon the shores of those endless, ancient tides ~	2001-05-16
US	50121126	R1B446FVFOTQD2	0679601910	569473707	Persuasion (Modern Library)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	~Beautiful~	Jane Austenites such as myself dive in most willingly and blissfully into her stories.  We bask in the sway of waves bearing her lively pitch, her precise and playful interaction with the language - and we bemusedly acknowledge that such magic has never even yet come close to being rejuvenated by anyone, despite so many attempts made within the some 200 years since her novels were written.<br />  PERSUASION quaintly commences on a quiet country estate in Regency England, and on a fanciful whim journeys on through to the seaside resort of Lyme, thence onward through the social promenade of Bath.  The story follows Anne Elliot, daughter of snobby baronet, Sir Walter Elliot.  Anne is the middle daughter, in between older sister Elizabeth, the apple of her father's eye, and married younger sister, Mary Musgrove.  Jane Austen makes very good use of her exquisite wit in the depictions of shallow, haughty Elizabeth and selfish, frivolous Mary.<br />  Anne, however, is cut from a different cloth.  Having fallen in love at age 19 or 20 with a handsome young man of no fortune, Anne denies her passion for what she sees as her duty and breaks her engagement with Frederick Wentworth - after, of course, some persuasion from Lady Russell, a friend of her late mother.  Then, some eight years later, after Anne has apparently lost her youthful bloom, Captain Wentworth returns - still very handsome, and now quite rich after having made his fortune in the Navy during the Napoleonic Wars.<br />  As Captain Wentworth brandishes warm, flirtatious attention upon the young, lively Musgrove sisters, Louisa and Henrietta, sisters of Mary's husband Charles, Anne silently harbours the certainty that her deep affection and love for Wentworth had never faded despite all those years apart from him, and that his aloofness bears witness that his feelings for her have forever disappeared.  She all the while keeps those pangs of loss and regret subdued, and stays steadfast in her knowledge of what is right and what is good in the complex modes of interaction with others.  After her father's frivolity with money has necessitated moving his family to Bath and leasing out his estate, Kellynch hall, Anne must search for her place in the world.<br />  Although PERSUASION may not be the wittiest, nor the liveliest, nor the brightest or most luminous of the six novels written by Jane Austen, one cannot deny that it is perhaps the most moving.  Our heroine's allure takes the reader gently into that era of innocent romance, that beautiful country where sometimes what once had been lost might inexplicitly, almost magically, be found...if sought.what is right and what is good in the complex modes of interaction with others.  After her father's frivolity with money has necessitated moving his family to Bath and leasing out his estate, Kellynch hall, Anne must search for her place in the world.<br />              Although PERSUASION may not be the wittiest, nor the liveliest, nor the brightest or most luminous of the six novels written by Jane Austen, one cannot deny that it is perhaps the most moving.  Our heroine's allure takes the reader gently into that era of innocent romance, that beautiful country where sometimes what once had been lost might inexplicitly, almost magically, be found...if sought.	2001-02-23
US	50121126	R2EMESG4Q5T6EJ	0345423607	279350331	The Silver Wolf	Books	4	7	9	N	N	~ Vampires, too, are Allured by the Moon ~	I read this book beside only the moonlight and some candles to light my way.  (I kid you not, for all ambient purposes; some books should be read that way.)<br />This is a fine example of storytelling at its most fantastic.  Regeane, like some of us, is a fluke of nature, a singular being.  Day by day in the world, set here in the last years of the Roman Empire, she is a blossoming, intelligent young woman. Yet whenever the moon shines in the night sky, she transforms into her other self, her alter ego:  the wolf that bursts forth from the recesses of her soul.<br />Regeane lives with her sinister uncle, Gundabald, who despises her as much as he fears her.  He imprisons her as he schemes to marry her off to and later murder a wealthy barbarian lord whom she has never met.  She occasionally manages escape - a savoring of days spent meeting interesting people caught up in the backdrop of political intrigue in Rome, and of nights basking beneath the allure of the moon, her ageless spirit haunted by the sense of a mysterious wolf whose soul seems preternaturally kindred with her own.<br />True, Alice Borchardt is the sister of Anne Rice.  And though they each possess a magic manner of weaving a tale, their styles are distinctly different.  I am attuned to the charms of both.  This is a wonderful story to read upon an evening by fire or candlelight, or any which way your heart desires ~	2000-11-01
US	50121126	R3TGBQV20PX20P	0140178929	475704212	Nude Men: A Novel	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Small (Guilty) Pleasure	I read a Chapter One excerpt of this beguiling novel in an X-Generation  writers anthology.  From that point, I was hooked.  I had to find this  book!  I was happily surprised when I finally did find this novel about 5  years ago - but greater still was this sense once I had begun to read it!  This book is indeed made of the stuff that makes one laugh out loud, that  moves one through all the emotions that a tragicomedy could  promise....<br />This is a story in the life of one Jeremy Acidophilus - the  tale as told by himself.  He's &quot;a man without many pleasures in life,  a man whose few pleaures are small, but a man whose small pleasures are  very important to him.  One of them is eating.  One reading.  Another  reading while eating.&quot;  So the novel promises, and right from the  beginning!<br />Jeremy is droning along serene-like in his somewhat pathetic  existence as a fact-checker for a movie magazine - a career with prospect  of infinite peonism, which I could immediately identify with at the time.  He's also mosying along in his drab relationship with his  &quot;mushy-wooshy&quot; girlfriend, Charlotte.  When, all of a sudden, he  meets Henrietta.  She's an artist, and she recognizes odd &amp; intriguing  qualities beneath his bland facade, and so asks him to pose nude for her.  This story then, becomes hopelessly, mischievously, and exquisitely twisted  as any of the finest (and most controversial) works of art!<br />Those  appalled by Nabakov's LOLITA should step wide and clear of this book, for  it involves the extraordinary circumstance of seduction of a grown man by  an 11-year-old girl.  Yet this is excellent reading for those who have a  wry sense of humour - a keen eye for caricature, wit, &amp; ironic play in  writing - and an appreciation for a unique and very clever literary voice.  Read it and you'll find this wickedly smart novel delivering all that ~	2000-09-08
US	50121126	R1CAQKI9QTXA7X	0393315606	569349859	Morality Play (Norton Paperback Fiction)	Books	4	6	7	N	N	~ Atmospheric and Alluring ~	This novel ingeniously draws you beneath a cloak within its dark, wintery  realm -- via a poor company of players in the grasp of a snow-flurried,  overcast December in the England of the 14th century.<br />Nicholas, the  protagonist, is a priest on the run - literally escaping the course of his  life - and he joins a traveling company of actors.  The group perform  various religious and philosophical pieces.  When they arrive in an  isolated small town set around the castle of a great Lord, they find  themselves imposed upon with numerous expenses that deplete their already  low funds.  When the play they perform fails to adequately replenish their  means, they set about performing a play of the actual, recent murder of a  12-year-old boy.<br />This is a fast-paced tale that can be read entirely in  one sitting. Barry Unsworth has succeeded here in providing a  thought-provoking story that touches on questions of morality and the  mysteries of human interaction.  These qualities and several more, grasp at  your senses as you tread briskly through the drama and mystery, empathizing  with characters whose words and movements shift amazingly in sync with the  cold, grey and white rhythm of the atmosphere.  And while you may not see  the white clouds of your breath while reading this novel, you will almost  certainly feel it ~~~~	2000-09-08
US	50121126	R1XDQCY5V75W83	0899670431	259828480	Ivanhoe	Books	5	11	15	N	N	The Immortally Disinherited	I have been notoriously shy of Sir Walter Scott's novels these many years  - afeared my imagination would fatefully be swallowed in the fog of the  misty dawn - the ominous steps pacing stoically and relentlessly toward my  doom - a duel with the spirit of &quot;That old War Horse.&quot;<br />But I  was quite mistaken:  ~ This story is  alive - or rather, so very lively!  Human fallibilities, such as greed,  pride, and bigotry are unabashedly exploited and made ridiculous with as  ever a brilliant wit that novelists Jane Austen or Charles Dickens have  ever displayed!<br />Scott lights a flame that gives his readers a warm,  glowing glance into a dark and murky age.  Legends - King Richard the  Lionheart and even Robin Hood - embodiment of the spirit of the age - are  given eloquent voice and movement through vistas and airs that touch my -  the reader's - every sense!  Nobility in IVANHOE is not written on the  charters or conquests of the characters peopling this novel - but within  their hearts and in their actions.<br />No, this is not old and out of sync  with everything that we, in the 21st century, know.  Scott shows us that  humans cannot be bound by time or mortality - but only by the restraints of  our own imaginations - our own reticent hearts.  I tell you this -  IVANHOE  may very well induce your imaginations to throw far from your mortal  boundaries every conceivable stipulation that would endeavor to restrain  them!	2000-08-27
US	50121126	R2OUNTWLM0EZVZ	0394751019	421244819	The Persian Boy	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Glorious	Here is a vivid portrait of perhaps the most extraordinary figure in human history:  Alexander of Macedon - as seen through the eyes of his devoted  servant, Bagoas.  This is the young King who, nearly 2,500 years ago,  sought to conquer the world.  And though he did not achieve this end (an  utter impossibility, as no one knew then what depths were in the oceans or  what lied beyond the scope of their own earthbound horizons.)  Yet all that  he did achieve before his untimely death in Babylon at the age of 32, was  amazing - likening him to almost a god, and one who would be known forever  as Alexander the Great.<br />Mary Renault gives Bagoas a fine voice - and a  depth of passion for his King brilliantly interwoven with genuine adoration  and love, so rarely seen in historical writing.<br />This author's novels are  a seductive blending of ancient historical fact and sweeping fiction that's  meant only to tell the tale by force of bringing it vividly before your  eyes.  This history needs to be cherished.  Go read this book, and hold it  close to your heart.	2000-08-20
US	50121126	R1SG0UP9QWH8Y	0805029796	412408200	Invented Voices: Inspired Dialogue for Writers and Readers	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Contagious Inspiration!	I take immense delight in reading anything by this author - and this book,  the 3rd volume of his wonderful trilogy of &quot;Handbooks For The  Soul&quot; is an homage to the pure heart of the writer found in the  dialogue of a sundry array of works in film, stage, and literature.  Mr.  Newlove is in possession not only of an enviably keen eye and ear for the  stuff that stirs the soul, but also with a passion for words further  enhanced with an acquaintance with their power, so rarely discovered in  literature. This is indeed a handbook for the soul - for it is wholly  without academic babble - you will not find herein even a jot of  instruction on the craft of writing, but rather a celebration of it ~~ And  for any body who reads or writes for the shear and pure revelry of it, a  celebration is all that could ever be desired!	2000-08-09
US	50121126	R1C55QBLO68012	034538072X	405327590	The Six Wives of Henry VIII	Books	4	4	4	N	N	An Engaging Study	Alison Weir has put together here a very fine and detailed study of one of  the most fascinating personages in the history of the British Monarchy -  Henry VIII.  This book is a wonderfully detailed history of each of his  wives.  Each of these six women are presented with clear and surprisingly  fascinating glimpses into their lives.  Especially interesting was the  story of Catherine of Aragon, King Henry's first wife - a steadfast and  quite formidable woman.  It tells of Henry's divorce from her - an act  which she and the Catholic Church refused to acknowledge.  From this  point, however, the book seems to take on the more meticulous voice of a  term paper - a sort of pounding-out of factual information.  Perhaps this  is due to the fact that once the King marries Anne Boleyn, his 2nd wife,  the history becomes packed with dramatic events, rolling one after the  other.  This, I suppose,  would leave very little chance to reflect on the  charactors of any of the remaining five wives.  I shall say this much for  this book, however:  It is rich in information - and for anyone who - like  myself - is fascinated by the history of England - this book is a must!	2000-08-08
US	50121126	R14KHWUSS2QIDS	3829030088	901094463	Tess of the D'Urbervilles (Konemann Classics)	Books	2	2	5	N	N	A Travesty Against All Higher Sensibility	This book is a rarity - for despite that I found it ridiculous, I actually read through it!  (I was in one of my more curious moods, and had made the decision to humour myself.) Quite over-rated, this. Tess was unfortunately  a victim of Thomas Hardy's adoration.  Upon her pedestal she perpetuated  her irksome fate most unrealistically.  She and the two men entangled in  her folly float on some nonsensical cloud of bliss.  They never touch the  earth. All through the course of this story, Tess is a leaf floating along  on a windy cloud.  It is not until the end that she takes a ludicrously  uncharacteristic stand against her fate.  Infuriating, that. One may only  conclude that she has no soul.  She is but the spiritless embodiment of  Hardy's ultimate tragic heroine.	2000-07-14
US	50121126	RX4UAYLAF50QU	0833563505	589915655	The Queen Of The Damned (Turtleback School & Library Binding Edition) (Vampire Chronicles)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A Satiating Read	Anne Rice's classic, THE VAMPIRE LESTAT, left us ravenously thirsting for this, the 3rd Vampire Chronicle.  Therein our hero, Lestat, had been snatched from his smug slumber underground by the ancient Vampire Queen,  Akasha, whom he'd awakened from a sleep of thousands of years.  Ah, Lestat,  the unquenchable soul.....one can always count on his lustful spirit to  stir up all manner of mischief!<br />Rescuing Lestat from Akasha's clutches,  not to mention saving the delicate order of the vampire world, proves no  easy endeavor to those still in existence after Akasha's sweeping  annihilation of vampires throughout the world.  There is a momentous  gathering of vampires we know from the previous books and introduced as  well are a precious few ancient and most powerful entities. THE QUEEN OF  THE DAMNED is a fast-paced, dark adventure through the passages of time and  space.  One would needs have a fantastical flow-through from the masterful  first two Chronicles - and this pumps it forth most wholeheartedly!	2000-07-13
US	50121126	R3KFIDDY3309W5	1573220795	248406542	Lambs of God	Books	4	13	16	N	N	Eccentric and Charming	I bought this book because of its alluring cover and its title.  I decided to pick it off my bookshelf, where it was gathering dust, on the whim of a moment.  And I'm quite happy I did.<br />Merele Day writes beautifully - I  found myself re-reading some passages just for their beauty.  A lovely  atmosphere is created in this story - an isolated island inhabited by the  three surviving nuns of a crumbling monastery who spend their days in  ritual worship, knitting, and story-telling.  There's a herd of sheep that  they tend - which they believe embody the spirits of nuns of their order  who have passed on.<br />The magic of the story begins when a young priest  comes to the island to evaluate the property for a potential resort to  bring income to the church.  As soon as the nuns figure out his intent, a  most humorous chain of events take place.<br />The use of faith, fairy tale,  myth, ritual and memory weave the fine fabric of the world of these  endearing characters brilliantly. It's charming!	2000-07-13
US	50121126	R2X4EKCXA1RSQ3	0679405828	363093333	Jane Eyre (Everyman's Library)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Dark, Beloved, and Steadfast	This unwavering literary classic brings to life one of the most endearing heroines ever conjured from the written word!  Jane Eyre and the mysterious Mr. Rochester have fates that are interminably conjoined and torn asunder  all throughout the course of this enduring masterpiece.  In my eyes, this  is the undoubted star of all the brilliant novels by the Bronte' sisters.	2000-05-22
US	50121126	R3N59H5NR9UFNI	0805025979	113243371	First Paragraphs: Inspired Openings for Writers and Readers	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Energetic and Inspiring!	This is a fine read -- for every great reader or writer.  Donald Newlove has gathered from literature some of the finest first paragraphs ever written!  The works of authors such as Isak Dinesen, Melville, and  Hemingway are looked at in a wonderful way.  This book is as energizing and  inspiring as a savouring cup of coffee!	2000-04-27
US	50121126	R27EQBQQORY70U	0192545027	976358997	David Copperfield (Oxford Illustrated Dickens)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	An Elaborate Masterpiece	I recently saw the new BBC production of this wonderful classic on Masterpiece Theatre.  Since then, I have been reminiscing on how I so completely enjoyed reading the novel some years' back.  I dearly love  anything by Charles Dickens - he writes with amazing depth of character,  substance and humour.  &quot;David Copperfield&quot; is without a doubt my  favorite by Dickens.  The story is, essentially, some 40 years in the life  of the indelible Mr. Copperfield - speckled through and through with a  rainbow cast of characters, and they color his life.  Oh, how I loved them!  - Mr. Micawber and his &quot;pecuniary difficulties,&quot; or Miss Betsy  Trotwood and &quot;the donkeys!&quot;  And I don't think I ever enjoyed  hating a character so much as the despicable Uriah Heep. The book is long -  as I love books to be - and, for readers with superiority of taste and  imagination, it is pure entertainment from cover to cover!	2000-04-22
US	50121126	R1Y8W86XEAWBMY	0394534433	630892090	The Vampire Lestat	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Delicious!	What a feast for my spirit!  I read this masterpiece years ago, the 2nd Anne Rice book of my novel awakening - &quot;Interview With the Vampire&quot; being the first - and, I must say, it was one of the rare  satiating moments of my existence!<br />Ah - this is the Vampire Lestat -  Maker of the Vampire Louis of &quot;Interview With the Vampire.&quot;  This  is the 2nd book of Rice's Vampire Chronicles - in the brilliant,  illuminating voice of Lestat, himself.  This beautiful, dark tale flies  high up there among my three favorite novels - masterworks that pulsate to  the rhythm of my very soul - this, Lestat's tale, along with Tolstoy's  &quot;Anna Karenina&quot; and Austen's &quot;Pride and Prejudice.&quot;  I  cannot write enough herein to be worthy of this wonderous novel.  My dark  soul doth indeed overflow -  V~~~~V!	2000-04-18
US	50121126	R2BMENM6NDKX2K	0440212812	381454270	Lost Souls	Books	3	8	10	N	N	I Really Tried to Like It.......	For the real effort I made to enjoy this novel, I will give it 3 stars rather than the 2 that it deserves. (Let's call it a 2.5)  The descriptions of the edges of the French Quarter, New Orleans were actually quite good - and the writing flowed quite nicely.  However, the dialogue was little more  than adolescent smack - and the plot's substance left much to be desired.  There were blatant shortcomings in both suspense and horror.  It is  ironic that, given this novel's premise, I had originally anticipated  devouring all of Ms. Brite's work.  Unfortunately, since reading &quot;Lost  Souls,&quot; I have had not so much as an inkling of desire to even taste  another of her books.	2000-04-18
US	50121126	R19HOX5ZYT5FNE	0553378570	843768672	The Memory Cathedral: A Secret History of Leonardo Da Vinci	Books	3	2	2	N	N	An Imaginitive View of History	This book caught my eye because of its interesting premise:  What if Leonardo Da Vinci's flying machine had really been created and had worked?  This is an obviously well-researched, albeit far-fetched, study of the life  of this great visionary of the Renaissance. I must say that it was the  historical detail in this novel that kept me with it.  It was otherwise  saturated in blood, sex, and death.  Dann's style of writing is fairly  decent - and the book offers a unique peek into the life of the great  Leonardo Da Vinci.  Yet, no matter how well you love history, you had  better stay away from this one if you get queasy by the sight of blood.	2000-04-17
US	50121126	R1CW2HB2DV2ALJ	0517122707	161411385	A Confederacy of Dunces	Books	5	3	6	N	N	Astonishingly Witty!	I romped through this novel in only a few days - laughing all the way!  I'd never read anything so clever: so funny, yet wrought with the many sad and universal truths of this life.  Ignatius J. Reilly - a pathetic and sad  picture of a human being - being quite well-aware that he is possessed of a  vast superiority of mind - gallivants through New Orleans leaving all forms  of upheaval in his wake.<br />Ah - Toole brings New Orleans, a city I love  dearly, alive here - it swelters and breathes with every word on every page  of this epic work of art and wit!	2000-04-17
US	50121126	R4IVI7VRMMDAY	0385285965	589405984	Legends of the Fall	Books	5	17	22	N	N	Raw and Magnetic!	I read the few novellas contained in this book after having seen the epic movie LEGENDS OF THE FALL. In fact, I read it because of the movie. I should now recommend - although historically I do not - reading the (relatively) short book before viewing the movie. I am not knocking the movie by any means - but this book was a most excellent read! It hit the core of human passion - the darkness and light of it - with a raw and eloquent energy as I'd never even sought before!<br />There are two other novellas in the book - and one of them, REVENGE, has also been portrayed on the screen!  Jim Harrison writes with as masculine, rough, and relentless a style as any writer I've ever read. I recommend this book of novellas wholeheartedly - it gives the core of emotion wrought from the human path without any need for the melodramatic twists contrived from Hollywood.<br />This work of writing makes no apologies. And ah - so boldly and truthfully its vision proclaims - it does not need to!	2000-03-02
US	50121126	R1KS46E3COQBK3	0192545094	191981119	Martin Chuzzlewit (The Oxford Illustrated Dickens)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Humorous Peek into Aspects of Human Nature	This is still, next to DAVID COPPERFIELD, my favorite Dickens' story! It is also quite highly ranked among my all-time favorite novels!  Dickens addresses so much of human nature -its passions, quirks & ironies - here in flawless eloquence! The story is long - but you come to know the characters so well that reading sessions become like a delve into an hour-to-hour, day-to-day existence with them! In this graceful novel, Dickens attacks hypocrisy, greed, and cruelty with a vengeance. And addresses, as like, what comes from loyalty, friendship, and generosity. None of the personages in this colorful story could be classified as good or bad --- they all have their various shades. I loved this novel -- as it painted a wonderful alternate world - in prettily-prismed Victorian England - that gave me great escape from my own, often spiritually-consuming, surroundings!	2000-02-17
US	50121126	RUT2K2AYLSZLR	0452272971	999654006	A Very Long Engagement	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Truly Engrossing!	I read this for a book discussion group about three years ago - I had a month to read it, but devoured it in a matter of three days! (I would have done in one sitting if I were not obliged to go to work.) This is a flawlessly written mystery that captures very eloquently the devastating horrors of war - poetically integrating ironic twists of fate with the tenacity of hope in the human heart. Japrisot has created an absolutely lovable three-dimensional heroine in Mathilde - who the reader can't help but follow across any vast expanse or obstacle - holding on to scarcely even a thread of hope - to find the true fate of her fianc&eacute; lost in the \\"no man's land\\" of WWI. This is a fine read - but be forewarned - you'll have a very hard time putting this one down!	2000-02-13
US	50121126	R2H7PBJC8PTKV0	0394751051	633936410	The Mask of Apollo: A Novel	Books	5	5	5	N	N	~~A Genuinely Lovely Study~~	This truly is a novel written with patience and love - with a fascinating peek into obscure moments in the evolution of ancient theatre and philosophy! The protagonist, Nikeratos, is a tragic actor. Through him, we see momentous events of ancient history evolve. The characters are drawn in such a way that makes them timelessly endearing - the language is subtly poetic and conjures images of the age. After reading this novel, I made it my quest to read more on the subject matter - including Plutarch's LIVES and the writings of Plato. Mary Renault's studies of Alexander the Great are equally fascinating. Yet I must say that her \\"Mask of Apollo\\" sits quite sturdily, albeit inconspicuously, among my all-time favorite books!	2000-02-13
US	50121126	RJ1AKK6E0M01X	0140431209	699219043	The Mill on the Floss (Penguin Classics)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Wonderfully Evolved	This is a marvelous study of a character -- George Eliot was a genuine craftswoman -- you cannot help but feel her love for her characters, nor can you help delighting in the way she so finely sculpts them into souls. The story gives us a wonderful heroine - Maggie - and we feel her struggles and her passions. We see her evolve upon her very human path -- we come to love her family and friends, even with their faults. I thoroughly enjoyed this novel - even though it bogged itself down in spots - it was worth trudging through. The ending is beautifully written. I had tears streaming down my face - it was so moving.	2000-02-05
