US	50148225	R27OZKTXPUZTSP	0525947647	857217799	Lies and the Lying Liars Who Tell Them	Books	4	12	15	N	N	Funny, informative and interesting take on the Right	Clearly, if you are a big fan of Fox News, Bill O'Reilly, Anne Coulter, Rush Limbaugh and the like, you will not be a big fan of this book.  If, however, you enjoyed Franken's earlier efforts, than there will be much to enjoy in this one as well.<br />The premise of this book is that the media and pundits on the Right have a tendency to distort and, well, lie in their discussions on ... I guess just about everything.  Franken and a team of Harvard students set out to debunk much of the deception that they have uncovered with cold hard facts.  A lot of the lies they expose are shocking and in many cases pretty funny.  And Franken's description of his interactions with various people (such as Paul Wolfowitz and Colmes - of Hannity and Colmes) are really entertaining, making me chuckle out loud many times.  Of course, an equal number of times I found it all quite frightening and worrisome and depressing, which somewhat tempered the humor quotient!<br />Although I did enjoy the book tremendously, I do not think it is quite as funny as &quot;Rush Limbaugh is a Big Fat Idiot...&quot; and I did have some problems with the fact that Franken does not include more extensive notes (either foot- or end-) while criticizing others for the same practice.  Yes, there are end notes, but the facts that he cites are not specifically referenced, which I found strange, given the time he spends criticizing others for that practice or for manipulating citations.  Still, if you do look through the notes, you do find the sources that he uses and they are informative.<br />Franken's books and similar ones seem destined to infuriate anyone who does not share, at least to some extent, his political perspective.  I do think, however, that there is a lot of important information in the book and that it is presented in an entertaining and humorous fashion - of course, it can't help but be a bit frustrating to see the level to which our current national political discourse has sunk, but that's nota fault of this book.  In short, despite a few caveats, I do think this book is definitely worthwhile - informative, smart, and entertaining albeit somewhat depressing....	2003-10-11
US	50148225	R2VZS8BAA4TI6Z	0375758992	837040016	Don't Let's Go to the Dogs Tonight: An African Childhood	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Absolutely excellent - not to be missed!	I picked this book up because one of my favorite pop culture magazines had named it the best non-fiction book of the year at some point.  Still, I must admit that I did not expect it to be quite so good.  I was absolutely absorbed in this book and practically lived in it for the few days it took me to finish it - and I certainly drew them out as long as I could because I did not want it to end!<br />Alexandra Fuller recounts her experiences growing up in various African countries, part of the white colonialist presence in Rhodesia and other countries.  Her family endures more than its share of hardships, and Ms. Fuller conveys them honestly, touchingly and in great detail.  She does not shy away from some of the less flattering aspects of her parents' participation in a colonialist culture, nor does she pretend that they were free from any sort of prejudice toward the Africans with whom they lived.  Yet Ms. Fuller does explain much of it - why her parents chose Africa and Rhodesia, Malawi and so forth, why she viewed the natives as she did, what she and her sister feared, and so on and so forth.<br />While this frankness is refreshing, what makes this book so excellent is Ms. Fuller's writing, which is simply brilliant.  She describes the lush landscapes, the danger of mines, the violence, the poverty and so on with such intense and vivid details that the book truly comes to life.  Her experiences growing up in Africa may have been in some ways similar to those of other colonialists, yet she makes her story unique through her insights, her sympathy and empathy, and through the changes that she describes - those of the countries in which she lives, herself, her mother, father, sister and others.  That Ms. Fuller's possess an incredible gift for writing is obvious, as is her command of language, with every word and phrase clearly chosen with great care.<br />I could not recommend this book more highly.  I really believe that it is one of the best that I have ever readand certainly one of the best in the past several years.  Already I have begun lending it out, and those who have read it have shared my fascination.  Simply put, it is not to mbe missed!	2003-10-11
US	50148225	R3D1ORVHDAUUL1	0316666343	784206304	The Lovely Bones	Books	5	5	6	N	N	A disturbing yet engrossing story...	When I saw that Alice Sebold had written a novel, I was eager to read it, as I had previously read her heart-wrenching but still triumphant description of her rape as a student at Syracuse University.  I knew that she was an excellent writer, and I knew, unfortunately, that she has first-hand experience with the subject she tackles in the Lovely Bones.  But I was surprised by the manner in which she successfully told what is, for many reasons, a difficult, painful story.<br />The Lovely Bones is told from the perspective of Susie Salmon, the victim of a horribly brutal rape and murder at the hands of a neighbor.  From heaven, Susie watches over her family and sees the havoc that her death has wreaked on those she loves, just as she sees the life that she so desperately misses and that she can't quite let go of.  Her family - mother, father, grandmother, brother, sister - all struggle with the tragedy in different ways, a tragedy compounded by the fact that Susie's body - aside from one part - is never found, nor is her murderer captured, although her father quickly realizes who is responsible.  After her death, Susie develops a rather strange relationship with a girl - still living - from her school, and gradually the people whose lives Susie touched are brought together in different ways.<br />To give away any more of the plot or details would, I think, unfairly spoil the book.  I would add, too, that this is not a novel for the squeamish, and I found myself often equally engrossed and disturbed.  For the most part, Alice Sebold avoids traditional plot devices, although admittedly some events do seem rather predictable and too convenient, and creates a unique vision of heaven that suits Susie and those she meets there.  The one major exception, one that seems incongruent with the rest of the book even though it all takes place in a realm outside of everyday life, occurs towards the end and seems more like a scene from a well-known Hollywood movie than an organice part of this story.<br />That said, the Lovely Bones is a terrifically well-told book, even, in some ways, uplifting.  I could never shake the shawdow of Susie's death, much in the same way that the characters never do, and I think this is a testament to the strength of Alice Sebold's writing.  I am heartened that this book has found such a wide audience, as it is in many ways different from typical best-sellers, and I hope that it leads readers to her previous book, Lucky.  The Lovely Bones was, for me, the type of book that I was totally absorbed in for the time I read it, and I would recommend it, with the caveats mentioned above, to anyone looking for an interesting, original, and intelligent novel.	2002-09-02
US	50148225	R27S3ZP6PKTMCY	006099486X	418849151	The Professor and the Madman: A Tale of Murder, Insanity, and the Making of The Oxford English Dictionary	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Absolutely gripping look at madness, murder and the OED	I bought this book a couple of years ago, forgetting about it until a friend recently mentioned how much she'd loved it.  When I did finally read it, I found it to be an utterly compelling story, well researched, written, and presented, and one of the best books that I've read in quite some time.<br />The Professor and the Madman functions on several levels.  On the one hand, and perhaps most superficially, it's the story of how the Oxford English Dictionary was put together and the people responsible for its initial publication.  But the book also focuses on many other issues, namely the nature and cause of madness, the impact of murder on individuals and a society, friendship under extraordinary circumstances, and the historical context in which all of these elements come together.<br />Every aspect of the book is equally fascinating.  I had not known how the OED was put together, and that piece in and of itself is simply terrific, as the production was truly miraculous - the picture the author paints of volunteers scribbling away all over England, looking up words and copying sentences, is just wonderful.  The lives and personalities at the center - the professor and the madman - are presented in all their complexities, and Simon Winchester effectively explores both fact and myth without appearing to conflate the two.  In addition, this book offers some insights into how madness, even criminal insanity, was viewed and treated in the 19th century, including a peek into an asylum of the time.<br />However dry and academic the topic might seem - the OED hardly appears a breeding ground for intrigue or madness - this is certainly one of the most compelling and interesting books I have ever read.  Simon Winchester is able to bring these characters to life with appropriate detail, and he theorizes about motivations, emotions, and so forth with sufficient documentation and without making it seem as though he is stretching history for dramatic effect.  I would recommendthis book to any reader without hesitation - it should definitely not be missed by any fan of history, excellent writing, or an utterly engrossing read.	2002-08-29
US	50148225	R2FX74IGAEZY69	0060938455	515614189	Fast Food Nation: The Dark Side of the All-American Meal	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Chilling and fascinating look  at our fast food culture	Eric Schlosser analyzes modern America through the lens of fast food, and what he reveals is completely engrossing, shocking, and infuriating.  He begins with a history of the industry, how McDonald's and other chains came to be, and illustrates how various social climates encouraged the rapid growth and expansion of franchises.  By going inside a present-day slaughter house, Schlosser paints an unforgettable picture of the never-ending slaughter of cattle in conditions that are truly shocking, horrifying, and nauseating.  Perhaps just as important as all of the problems he reveals, Schlosser also includes his ideas about how to change everything he finds as problematic, offering concrete solutions instead of simply identifying all that is wrong.<br />Just how important and utterly fascinating Fast Food Nation is might not be immediately apparent based on a description of the subject.  Schlosser, however, focuses his book very carefully to avoid tackling a topic beyond comprehension, choosing Colorado as emblematic of the current state of the industry - and the chilling effect on our school system, believe it or not.  And he balances out his factual passages with anecdotes about ranchers, fast food magnates, restaurant employees, slaughter house workers, franchise owners, and so forth.  Schlosser's skill as a writer is evident in the way that he maintains control over all of the information he includes; he jumps, at times, between early 20th century California, post-war Germany, and modern Colorado seamlessly and effortlessly.  While in theory this is a book I couldn't put down, in practice some of the information was so revolting that I had to move away briefly - this is due to the power of Schlosser's language in some cases, and horror at what actually takes place, and is a testament to the strength of the book rather than any difficutly with it.<br />The one issue that bothered me somewhat is addressed in the afterword, when Schlosser takes the opportunity to analyze the book's success and some of the comments he received.  Throughout the book, much of the blame for the current horrific state of the beef industry is laid on the Republican party, and I find it very hard to believe that there is not a hefty dose due Democrats.  His explanation is satisfactory, although I still wish that he had devoted more to that topic in the actual text itself.  That said, from the little details about what's actually in the food we eat to the experiences of some slaughter house workers, this book is not to be missed.  Recent recalls of millions of pounds of beef show just how timely and important this topic is, and I think that Fast Food Nation should be pretty much mandatory reading for everyone - my copy is on its third reader already.	2002-07-20
US	50148225	R36INRJ733H341	0312265859	52382288	Hard Eight (Stephanie Plum)	Books	5	2	4	N	N	A satisfying installment in the Stephanie Plum series...	It's difficult for there to be too many surprises in the 8th book in a series, and I can't say there were many here.  But what I was suprised about, frankly, was that I personally didn't find that to be tiresome or dull.  Sure, at this point, one pretty much expects that our heroine, Stephanie, will be torn between two men, get some cars blown up, make some incredibly silly decisions, have Lula and her granny tag along, and be subjected to lots of head shakings.  I don't quite know how she did it, but I think that Janet Evanovich manages to keep this series fresh because she creates such interesting, dynamic, silly, and fun characters - people that, despite the crazy happenings in the novels, actually seem pretty real.  Even those on the periphery of the story have distinct personalities, and it is this, I think, more than the particular mystery in the book that makes it interesting - and the mystery here, while different than some others, is rather tame, despite the appearance of a new uber-villian.  <br />If anyone is going into this book expecting revolutionary character growth, that reader will probably be disappointed.  Similarly, if this is the first Stephanie Plum novel someone reads, a lot will probably be lost without the history presented in the previous seven.  But if you enjoyed the other books - and aren't yet tired of Stephanie's antics, the Morelli-Ranger-Stephanie triangle, and the bizarre and pretty unbelievable events in the Burg, this is the book for you.  I'm not sure a writer with less skill and humor could maintain my interest this long, but I think Janet Evanovich is doing fine, and I'll certainly be ready for book nine when it comes along.	2002-06-29
US	50148225	R1G3GH22VP4CQX	0312278586	244886090	The Nanny Diaries: A Novel	Books	4	4	7	N	N	Lots of fun to read...	I had read a lot about the Nanny Diaries before deciding to buy it, so I pretty much knew all about the plot, main characters and setting before even opening it up.  But even though there were not a lot of surprises within the book, I found it to be a very entertaining, enjoyable read, more so than I'd anticipated.<br />The central character, Nanny, is well constructed, and we see the world of mega-rich New Yorkers through her eyes.  Her charge comes across as more than just a plot mechanism, exhibiting lots of real little boy behavior that seems pretty appropriate given his circumstances.  And there sure are a lot of fascinating details about the family Nanny works for, details that, despite the authors' claims not to have based the book on any of their own experiences as nannies, seem just outrageous enough to be believable in that world.<br />The Nanny Diaries is a very light read, and I zipped right through it.  Mrs. X, however hideous, is still interesting, and there is lots of vicarious enjoyment witnessing the trials and tribulations of Nanny.  Overall, though, I found myself ever so slightly disappointed when I reached the end.  Thiings wrapped up so abruptly - yet neatly - with certain things seeming so out of character and way too melodramatic compared with the rest of the book that it all felt a little too contrived and not very satisfying.  Still, I definitely think it is worth the time - and money - simply for the fun of it, and as long as one doesn't look too hard for deeper meaning or expect too much.  The Nanny Diaries is the quintessential summer book - a little decadent, a little silly, and a lot of entertainment.	2002-06-08
US	50148225	RU87CNNHEPAB5	0060392452	194848581	Stupid White Men ...And Other Sorry Excuses for the State of the Nation!	Books	5	18	26	N	N	Honesty is finally okay again...	In a climate in which the president's press secretary advises us to 'watch what we say,' it's refreshing to have Michael Moore back again to share his opinions and perceptions of what's going on these days.  Moore is an equal opportunity critic - as his support for Nader in the most recent election indicated, he's no big fan of either the Democrats or Republicans; he does not simply set up a Republicans-and-conservatives-are-bad dichotomy and leave it at that.  He illustrates many of the problems with the current system, both parties and with Dubya, Clinton and Gore.  At times Moore offers a perspective that goes beyond that typically found in mainstream media represntations of stories, which can someimtes be really fascinating.  And while practically all of his observations are conveyed with his trademark humor, the entertainment value of the book should not undermine the validity of much of its content and ideas.<br />Of course, it is quite clear that readers who have not typically enjoyed Moore's work in the past or who still find criticism of the Bush Administration unsavory will not find much in this book to like and should probably avoid it at all costs.  But for those who do like Moore or who like intelligent, well-articulated, funny, relatively fair and thorough political commentary, this book's for you.  Read, learn and laugh!	2002-02-22
US	50148225	R2WPWFEUI3BRAN	0679783571	564676745	The Broke Diaries: The Completely True and Hilarious Misadventures of a Good Girl Gone Broke	Books	5	27	27	N	N	Funny, clever, not-to-be-missed saga of brokeness...	As a University of Pennsylvania senior, Angela Nissel is totally and utterly broke - not the 'oh, I'm broke because I only have $100 in the bank but I can pay all my bills' broke but really broke.  Her 'diary' recounts her misadventures trying to make it through the year without starving or getting evicted.  Her cleverness, sense of humour and pretty bizarre experience make 'The Broke Diaries' an incredibly entertaining read, one to be savored and certainly not to be missed.<br />The book is structured as an actual diary, with entries on various days describing Angela's latest battle to eat/ survive/ pay her bills/ get textbooks and so forth.  A lot of what she endures will be familiar to many college students and graduates, but a lot of it is simply amazing, both in terms of what Angela has to go through and some of the very strange people she encounters.  Even as she struggles to get by, Angela maintains her wicked sense of humor, and that comes through in all of her 'entries,' as do her keen perceptions about poverty, human nature, and so forth.  Some of what happens to her seems unbelievable except in the context of everything else that she's enduring - even the pretty crazy stuff seems normal in her world and in her chatty, informal, funny narrative voice.<br />I'm very glad that Angela survived her senior year and that she is no longer broke, as much as I did enjoy her tales of woe.  'The Broke Diaries' would make rewarding, entertaining, fun and funny reading for almost anybody.  Just don't forget to pay attention to some of her astute perceptions about poverty.	2002-02-21
US	50148225	RCKLNFIWHGE3X	0688172377	787268588	Desert Flower: The Extraordinary Journey of a Desert Nomad	Books	5	4	4	N	N	An extraordinary journey...	That Waris Dirie survived some of her experiences at all is amazing, but that she found success, love and happiness is practically miraculous.  She's lived so many different lives, ones that most people can only imagine - as a nomad in Somalia, as a servant in London, as an international super model - yet the voice in which she tells her story is so personal, so warm and informal, that she easily conveys a sense of what she has been through.<br />Waris literally ran away from when her father tried to marry her off to a much older man when she was thirteen.  After staying with family in Mogadishu, she goes to London to work as a servant with other relatives before being 'discovered' and going on to model.  Waris grew up totally and utterly isolated from the rest of the world  so much so that, when on a plane to London, she is surprised to see non-Africans because she did not even know that white people existed - and a lot of the book focuses on the radical adjustments she must make and how she feels - fascinated, frustrated, excited - about doing so.<br />Always just below the surface is the horrifying procedure of female genital mutilation or circumcision, which Waris underwent at the age of 5.  She continues to suffer excruciating pain as a result but eventually, after her initial embarrassment and reluctance, is able to discuss the situation with Western doctors and obtain some relief.  Her anger at what she and thousands upon thousands of African women have been through increases as she learns more about the world and realizes that not every woman undergoes the same torture, and she becomes a U.N. ambassador working to end female circumcision throughout the world.<br />Desert Flower would be a rewarding book if it were confined to Waris early years growing up in a nomadic culture.  But as it is, Waris' story is truly remarkable, and she succeeds in providing readers at least a glimpse into what she has experienced and endured.  One of the best aspects ofDesert Flower is its narrative voice, as Waris clearly uses one that is comfortable for her and that comes across as very personal, honest and warm.  I recommend this book most highly to just about everyone, as Waristriumph over her hardships, struggles, and suffering is fascinating while the fact that she maintains her sense of humor, faith and humanity is awe-inspiring.	2002-02-20
US	50148225	R1RLENMZ7VQTIO	0767907418	883916992	Big Kiss: One Actor's Desperate Attempt to Claw His Way to the Middle	Books	5	2	3	N	N	A hilarious account of one man's search for celebrity...	When I pulled Big Kiss of my bookshelf the other day, I could not for the life of me remember what exactly had inspired me to buy it.  Whatever the reason was, I am extremely glad that I did, and I would encourage others to do so without hesitation.  Big Kiss is an absolutely hysterically funny, well-written, fascinating, perceptive account of Henry Alford's career switch from journalist to actor/performer/celebrity.<br />The book opens with Henry's attempt to skip the performer stage and jump straight to celebrity status, and almost immediately I found myself literally laughing aloud - on the subway, no less.  In order to facilitate his career change, he enrolls in a variety of acting classes that he describes with comedic brilliance, none more so than his stint at the Royal Academy in London.  The book details his search for work and success along with the effects on friends, family - mainly his mother, who accompanies him to an improv workshop with yet again hilarious results - and his significant other.<br />What makes Big Kiss so good is Henry's ability to convey the humor in a situation so well, which isn't alway easy, and the voice he uses throughout, which becomes very clearly and uniquely his own.  Although many of the situations in which he finds himself are fraught with humor on their own, he manages to dig deeper and find a whole other level while also tossing off some pretty astute perceptions about celebrity, life, etc.  I must say, I went within a very few pages of this book from wondering why I bought the hard cover to encouraging everyone I know to getit, even reading some passages aloud - particularly some laugh-out-loud funny scenes involving a performance at Elaine's - for encouragement.  If you are looking for a truly entertaining, intelligent read, Big Kiss is for you.  Henry Alford deserves any success he can find, and I certainly hope that I encounter more of his excellent and hilarious work.	2002-02-13
US	50148225	R1KT21AQYK8FIW	031215707X	858181566	Jane Fairfax: The Secret Story of the Second Heroine in Jane Austen's Emma	Books	4	35	37	N	N	A new view of a familiar story...	Emma is one of my favorite books, so I was naturally drawn to this re-interpretation of the story told through the eyes of Jane Fairfax, about whom we learn very little in the original.  On the other hand, I was somewhat wary given how much I love Emma and Austen in general and was afraid that I would find it lacking in both style and substance.  In the end, I was terribly impressed by Aiken's work and enjoyed this version tremendously.<br />Joan Aiken explores the events in Jane Fairfax's life that take place outside of Highbury and the sphere of Emma.  What we once saw only through Emma and the others thus takes on a completely different dimension, particularly the circumstances that appear such a surprise in Austen's novel.  The new characters are very well-rounded, realistic and fascinating while the 'old' ones remain very much true to their roles Emma, even down to their language, mannerisms, dress and so forth.<br />Despite how well-written and fascinating I found the book - and how good the descriptions, characterizations and scenery are - I never felt quite like I was reading Austen.  But I was so impressed by how close Aiken did get to the original, and here her extraordinary skill as a writer is obvious, I believe it is more a matter of my degree of familiarity with Emma and with Austen's work in general than any inherent flaw in the book.  Although I do believe Jane Fairfax is good enough to stand on its own, I think that in order to enjoy Jane Fairfax fully a reader must be relatively familiar with Emma, for having seen the story before from another perspective is an enormous part of the appeal.  I would recommend this book to any fans of Emma or Austen - or really anyone interested in a well-told and excellently written story - with the caveat that the book be appreciated for what it is and not compared to minutely to the original.	2002-01-24
US	50148225	R363Z1RDBMWJZW	0786868619	719432164	Stolen Lives: Twenty Years in a Desert Jail (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	4	11	13	N	N	Hauntingly told story of Stolen Lives...	What Malika Oufkir and her family went through is horrifying, unjust, barbaric, and it is almost difficult to believe that any one of them survived to tell the tale.  But that she is able to describe it so hauntingly and even beautifully - to convey the hopelessness and hope, the physical changes, the emotional torments, the hunger and deprivation, the fear and courage - that they all endured during 20 years in prison helps give their story more power and allow for a glimpse into an unimaginable existence.<br />Malika Oufkir's father was a powerful military man in Morocco, so much so that he was close to the king and even sent Malika to grow up with the princess in the palace for much of her childhood.  His involvement in a bloody and unsuccessful coup led to his death and the imprisonment of his family for 20 years - Malika's mother, her five siblings and some servants - in increasingly harsh conditions until their escape and eventual release.  For Malika, a young woman with dreams of a film career and a life of extravagance - clothes, travel, servants - the change was a dramatic one, while for some of her younger siblings basically grew up in the prison.  At first, the family is able to bring their fine clothes and books with them, but by the time of their final move, they are starving, suicidal and almost broken in spirit.<br />The most fascinating aspects of the book for me were the ways in which the family copes, the ingenuity they use to communicate, survive and escape, and how they had to adjust upon returning to civilization after their escape and release.  Malika has a lot of bitterness, obviously, toward the royal family but also toward those who deserted the family once they were arrested - given the political climate, it does seem perfectly understandable why people would shy away but then again so,I suppose, does the family's sense of betrayal.  The book's power is diluted somewhat by being filtered through Malika's perspective, colored as it is by heremotions such as the belief that a higher power ensured their survival.  Malika admits to growing up incredibly spoiled with a sense of entitlement; unfortunately, her consciousness of the wrongs her family suffers does not seem to be applied to others, such as slaves, servants or other political prisoners.<br />Yet Malika's somewhat conflicting traits serve to underscore the strangeness and complexity of her life and situation, going from such extreme luxury and favor to such unbelievable deprivation.  In many ways, locked away from the world as a young woman, she seems to have remained in late adolescence in some fashion.  In conjunction with her bizarre experiences, this gives Malika a unique voice for what is in many ways a heart-breaking but triumphant story, one that should not be missed.	2002-01-11
US	50148225	R3OJ36ACBUCXOD	0385319940	180829311	Do They Hear You When You Cry	Books	5	24	24	N	N	An amazing, inspiring, touching yet horrifying journey...	There are some books that are so wonderful, so intense, that I simply get lost in them for the few days it takes me to finish them, and once I'm done, I want to share it with the world. This is one of those books, a truly moving, inspiring, fascinating, terrifying, heart-breaking and rewarding tale. <br />Fauziya Kassindja is a Muslim African woman raised by a father she adored who did not adhere to many of the more restrictive Islamic customs relating to women. Upon his death, however, Fauziya is faced with a forced marriage and forced female circumcision and flees first to Germany and then to the United States, where she is promptly locked away in prision, initially denied asylum and kept imprisoned for an unbelievable amount of time.<br />The story itself is both fascinating and heart-breaking, but Fauziya tells it with such detail and brutal honesty that it becomes even more powerful. She creates a beautiful picture of her childhood in Africa and life with her beloved father and family, and she conveys clearly and easily her naivete about laws and customs as she went first to the strange land and then to the literal and figurative prison of America. Her ambivalence about America - as the land of hope and escape turned jail - is understandable and she describes why a return to the horrors that awaited her at home suddenly seemed better than remaining in the series of prisons to which she was assigned.<br />What makes Fauziya such a compelling figure - a real heroine - is her honesty and her struggle to stand up for her beliefs. She personifies the adage that courage is being scared but 'doing it anyway.' I grew angrier and angrier at the way in which women are treated here and around the world, that forced mutilation is not 'political' nor grounds for asylum, that gender has such an impact on how people are treated. Her faith in her religion, her love of her family, her wish to give in despite the horror that would greet her return to Africa all made her such a human, touching figure. This is not a book to be missed - everyone should read it - but for those concerned about the treatment of women and female circumcision - and far too many women have to deal with the brutality of it - this book is absolutely essential. When I finished, I wanted to learn more about Fauziya and what happened to her. I certainly hope that she has found the happiness and peace that she so deserves.	2002-01-05
US	50148225	RGSNEP640ICSZ	0385333412	895394482	Dating Big Bird	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Entertaining enough but missing something...	Dating Big Bird revolves around a single woman Ellen Franck who desperately wants to have a baby and her decision whether or not to do it on her own or to wait and find 'Mr. Right.' There's a lot that's good about it and funny, warm and entertaining. But despite all that I did like, there seemed to be something missing, some dynamic that made it feel somewhat flimsy and light even though it had great potential.<br />Ellen is not alone in her insatiable baby quest. She encounters an old high-school rival who is pretending that her sibling's baby is her own, something Ellen often fantasizes about with her own niece. Together, the two pledge that they will decide what to do about their baby lust at the end of the nine months and then take the necessary steps to achieve it. Along the way, Ellen's romantic life takes twists and turns as does her professional one and a cast of supporting characters, some more interesting than others, dart in and out.<br />The title comes from Ellen's realization that Big Bird, the sensitive, lovable bird from Sesame Street, really is the perfect father. It's an interesting enough idea, and the execution is fine, decently written with some really funny moments. But ultimately, I found it unsatisfying, too neat and contrived. That's expected in the genre to some extent yet the glimpses Zigman offered of sharper edges made me hope, I suppose, for a little less shmarm. Still, it's a nice enough way to spend a few hours, as long as you're not expecting a masterpiece.	2001-12-29
US	50148225	RNYSSZ9IS3NLD	0312195516	226874686	The Red Tent	Books	5	13	16	N	N	Magical expansion of biblical story...	Before reading The Red Tent, I knew very little about the Bible, aside from a few names and stories.  The description and reviews that I'd read compelled me to give it a shot anyway, and I am incredibly glad that I did.  The Red Tent is definitely one of the best - well-written, fascinating, creative, etc. - novels that I've read in the past few years.<br />Little is mentioned in the Bible about Dinah, Jacob's only daughter - this much I know - and The Red Tent is a fictionalized account of her life from her own perspective.  The result is magical, from Dinah's relationship with her own mother and her father's other wives, to her marriage, role as mother; all is depicted so realistically and lovingly that it is easy to get lost in the story.  Dinah's life is not an easy one but Diamant so easily balances all that happens to her to prevent the book from becoming too maudlin or tragic - somehow, Dinah transcends it all.  In addition to this wonderful female character, Diamant has recreated the vibrant environment and times in which she exists - obviously, a great deal of research went into this book and the details provide a sense of what life could have been like lo those many years ago.  Diamant incorporates all of the information she gathered in such a way that it complements the story naturally without seeming forced or without too much emphasis placed on the historical context, as can sometimes be the case.<br />As I read this book on the subway to and from work, many women approached me to let me know how  much they had loved the book and how much it meant to them, something that has never happened before.  As I got deeper into the book and became more entranced I began to understand its power.  This simply is not a book to be missed.  It provides a window into the lives of women in biblical times and into the soul of one courageous, gentle woman.  I cannot recommend it more highly and hope that this book will continue to find the audience it deserves.	2001-12-29
US	50148225	R2BR7LQFTOV6QC	0743225325	715979019	Good Harbor: A Novel	Books	4	27	30	N	N	A small, compelling story well- and lovingly-crafted...	As a huge fan of The Red Tent, Diamant's previous work, I was eager to read Good Harbor.  What I found was a novel as concentrated in focus as The Red Tent is epic in scale yet that was written with as much care and creativity.  Good Harbor is a warm, thoughtful exploration of the lives and friendship between two seemingly disparate women.<br />The name of the book comes from a location in the coastal New England town where the characters reside.  Kathleen, a life-long resident and children's librarian recently diagnosed with breast cancer, which killed her beloved sister, meets Joyce, a younger woman living out her dream - sort of - of a second home near the coast in the same town.  The two strike up a friendship as Kathleen deals with her recovery from her illness and past tragedies and Joyce tries to find the self that she feels has been lost.<br />There is genuine caring and empathy between the women, and the instant bond that is formed seems completely realistic and understandable.  And while events do not take place on a grand scale, the women change, grow and make mistakes throughout the course of the novel, emerging at the end the same yet different.  It's a marvelous story, very well-written, detailed, interesting and enjoyable, sustained by the warmth and strength of the friendship.<br />While Good Harbor is incredibly different from The Red Tent, that is not a handicap in anyway, just a testament to Diamant's strength as a writer.  And despite the shift in scale - a much smaller span of time, locale, etc. - many of the same themes emerge.  It's not a sweeping epic in traditional terms, but in a way, it focuses on a similarly dramatic time in the lives of the central characters and is treated with the depth and breadth necessary.  Diamant has again lovingly created a tale of dynamic women and a compelling, worth-while novel.	2001-12-29
US	50148225	R170V6MKIV0JQQ	0679437541	880643823	Is That a Gun in Your Pocket?: Women's Experience of Power in Hollywood	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A compelling look at women and power in Hollywood...	I love movies almost as much as books and have long been concerned about the roles that women play both behind and in front of the camera. In Is That a Gun... Rachel Abramowitz provides a fascinating, intelligent look at the power dynamics in Hollywood and a deeply personal one at the women themselves.<br />Abramowitz spent seven years researching this book and it shows. She interviews women who have occupied various positions in Hollywood - from director to producer, agent, executive - about their lives and work. The women are very different from each other, but they were all among the first women to assume power in Hollywood and as such they have shared experiences. She often provides a background of the women, taking us through their early lives to their arrival in Hollywood - both literally and figuratively - and through their struggles and achievements. Often, along the way, much is revealed about how certain movies, such as Flashdance, Fatal Attraction, Forest Gump and more, were made and about actors, directors, studio heads and so on.<br />Abramowitz does not rely solely on the women's accounts. She interviews scores of tangential players - from directors to spouses, many famous in their own right, and so on - who corroborate stories and offer their own perspectives, sometimes unwittingly underscoring one of the major points of the book - that however much many of the women might want to deny that sexism affected them personally, they certainly weren't treated the same way that men were.<br />Many, many women are profiled in this book, so many that there were some that I wanted to learn more about. Others, most notably Dawn Steel and particularly Sherry Lansing, play a more prominent role - in fact, I'd say that Sherry appeared throughout with the most consistency. But a lack of 'page time' does not mean a lack of details, description or insight. Her interviews with Jodie Foster are stunning, especially as Jodie discusses her work on The Accused, Taxi Driverand directing Little Man Tate. And learning about Barbra Streisand's struggles to get her films made was surprising and illuminating. I simply wished there had been more because what was there was so fascinating and interesting.<br />Too much can be learned from this book to summarize here, and it is much more substantial than mere gossip even though it is sometimes just as fun. If you love movies and have ever questioned why 'chick flicks' meant for women are often totally sexist and completly insult your intelligence, this books helps point you in the direction of an answer. Yet beyond all of the information - and, yes, dirt - I was suprised to find out how human these women were, how unlike the stereotype of the typical powerful, agressive, tough and successful Hollywood career woman. It is a bit disheartening to see how many of them distanced themselves from each other and feminism, not wanting to admit to seeing sexism or being treated differently, but it becomes almost understandable given what some of these women were up against. At any rate, that's a whole other book and this one, as it is, is wonderfully written, thoroughly researched and offers a perspective on Hollywood that's fresh and new - aside from making it about a thousand pages longer, I wouldn't change a thing.	2001-12-18
US	50148225	R1AIYDK2QKVKDP	0553581066	838101255	Neurotica	Books	2	8	10	N	N	An unfortunate disappointment	I really enjoyed Sue Margolis' Spin Cycle and was sure that I would find this one as entertaining, enjoyable, light-hearted and so forth.  Instead, I was deeply disappointed, struggling to finish it (it's an honor thing, finishing books) and missing the humor and sensitivity I found in her other work.<br />The story revolves around a married couple with children in the midst of serious problems given the husband's hypochondria and the wife's subsequent feelings of neglect.  For an article she's writing, the wife embarks on a series of love affairs simply for the sex and the novel follows her through the events and their repercussions.  Although the premise sounds as though it has potential, it was in the execution and character development that I found the problems, aside from the fact that the story is also predictable.<br />The central difficulty for me was that I didn't like the characters at all.  The husband's obsession with health was more than eccentric and the manner in which he addressed it ludicrous.  On the other hand, the wife's affairs were so fraught with disaster - and little humor - that I found her equally repugnant.  So little is written about the children - and practically nothing nice - that I wondered why they were there at all, while the supporting cast seemed merely there to move along the plot.  While Spin Cycle was genuinely funny, I cringed at many of the attempts at humor here.<br />I know Margolis has written a much better book and perhaps that's why I'm so unforgiving.  It wasn't that the writing was bad rather than that the subject was a waste of her skills.  And I couldn't help feeling as I read it that the disasters that befell our heroine were the typical punishment rained down on unfaithful females, while the man, whose behavior was truly abominable, made it through relatively unscathed.  What could have been an interesting tale of two people equally at fault ended up a sort of morality fable.  If you must read Sue Margolis, start with Spin Cycle - she really and truly can do much better than this!	2001-12-14
US	50148225	R2EDSKNLIN4PG5	0449005569	474004755	Love: A User's Guide	Books	4	1	2	N	N	A silly, fun and entertaining escapist adventure...	Anyone approaching Clare Naylor's book looking for truth and reality will be sadly disappointed.  Casting that aside, however, and suspending all disbelief makes Love:  A User's Guide a lovely distraction, highly entertaining, silly, funny, ridiculous - all the makings of a perfect way to while away a few hours.<br />Amy, a Vogue editorial assistant, has recently gone from gawky to gorgeous and, reveling in her new-found beauty, works her way through a series of adventures with her good pal Lucinda and not so lovely 'flat-monsters.'  And yes, this is another book about a single Londoner looking for love, but to dismiss it outright on that basis would be to miss out on some fun.  When Amy does meet 'Mr. Right,' she just slightly to self-absorbed to realize it, and it takes more misadventures and some real humiliating behavior on her part before she finds the right path again.  The omni-potent narrator, who addresses readers directly, pops up at times to reassure us that all is not lost.<br />There are no clues to human nature buried here, other than the obvious that shallowness and self-absorption and the media are bad, bad, bad.  But that's okay, because the book has no pretensions of being more than it is - entertainment.  And while Amy is presented with lots of good humor, she's certainly full of lots of flaws which makes her decisions and behaviors all the more enjoyable - it's certainly fun to sit back and look at someone else make tons of mistakes and a fool out of herself for once.  For anyone looking for a well-written and fun book, I recommend this most highly, but if your looking for the meaning of life, I suggest you go elsewhere.	2001-12-14
US	50148225	RWAHE9AIXX2QR	0684813637	747139631	John Adams	Books	5	15	17	N	N	A fascinating, complicated and honest look at John Adams...	While I'd heard lots of wonderful things about McCullough's book, I must admit that I did not know much about John Adams.  Most of what I knew stemmed from American history classes or, more recently, studying Abigail in the light of feminist theory.  I was truly impressed by McCullough's astounding accomplishment - a thorough portrait of a complicated, interesting, flawed individual who played a pivotal - and under-appreciated - role in the history he witnessed and shaped.<br />With Adams' own diary as a resource - along with the vast amount of correspondence to which he had access - McCullough ventures behind the history and politics to talk about John Adams as a person.  He clearly conveys the passion Adams had for his country, friends and family as well as his frustration at often being misunderstood.  While the Adams that is revealed is perfectly human - flaws and all - the fact remains that he saw events and lived a life that few, if any, others of the time did, and McCullough is able to both describe how Adams viewed his experiences as well as, with the hindsight of a couple of hundred years, the long-lasting significance of his actions, significance that Adams probably never even imagined.  The result is an impressively vivid and relevant portrait of a man who lived during an amazing period of history.<br />There's no need to belabor the minor details of the book except to note that it covers an extensive period of Adams' life, one that sees his achievements, struggles and so on.  One of the central underlying themes is both the lack of appreciation that Adams experienced and that the the author clearly feels Adams has suffered from.  It is this obvious subtext that provides my only point of criticism.  While Adams certainly was an extraodinary individual who did not always receive the recognition he deserved, I did feel that others - most notably Jefferson - were treated less than favorably given the application of that particular perspective.  While Jefferson is perhaps remembered in a better light than that in which he lived, I did feel some bias in the comparisons between the two, particularly given that Jefferson, whose motives often appear less honorable and more devious than Adams, nevertheless did not experience as much harsh treatment as did the more controversial bu no less worthy Adams.<br />Still, despite this criticism, I found the book immensely valuable and endlessly fascinating.  I am an avid reader of biographies of all sorts, and I seldom have encountered one that renders such a comprehensive and candid appraisal of its subject nor one that brings the individual so much to life - and this includes books about those still living.  I could not recommend this book more highly.  Perhaps a caveat to consider some of the interpretation carefully is in order, but my concerns over a slight bias have only encouraged me to read - and learn - more.  I await Mr. McCullough's next endeavor with a great deal of anticipation and excitement.	2001-11-21
US	50148225	RPU66LPGYQC2W	1573225541	223433193	Going Down	Books	2	5	7	N	N	Not the most enjoyable way to spend time...and money	It's very rare for me to find a book so dreary or dull that I rate it low - my standards are based upon what I like and enjoy rather than whatever 'artistic' quality or value it had.  But I have to say that I Going Down did not meet my very 'easy' and generous standards.  It's not badly written, as some books are, nor is it outrageously boring.  I think it's simply the fact that the story it tells is pretty horrible and most, if not all, of the characters are pretty repulsive.<br />The 'heroine' of Going Down is a college student who turns to prostitution to make some money.  One of the big gaping holes, for me, is that I never really understood why - or at least didn't think that the explanations were sufficient.  Along the way she meets lots of different 'wacky' characters - people so off the wall that they seem pretty contrived - finds a boyfriend, drops out of school and so on.  Throughout all of her vicissitues, prostitution is the backdrop - and this is not the glamouros 'call girl/escort/$1,000 an hour' kind of work - this is the kind that appears very horrible and degrading, and the fact that it takes the heroine so long to realize this, if she ever really does, was one of the most annoying parts of this book for me.<br />Jennifer Belle is not a bad writer or story-teller.  It's more the case of the story that she chose to tell and the characters through which she conveyed her message.  There was too much deliberate strangenes  -  things that just seemed to be for effect rather than to organically develop - no real point to the story as far as I could tell and the people were not very interesting.  I hardly expected a moral fable but I don't really enjoy watching people degrade and demean themselves - and aside from the prostitution thing, 'Daphne,' her hooker name, engages in lots of really self-destructive behavior.  Sure, this type of story has its place but not in a book trying to fit in the urban single woman contemporary fiction mode.  It just wound upbeing silly, pointless and unpleasant.  Hopefully, Ms. Belle can combine message, medium and meaning in a more rewarding way in the future.	2001-11-02
US	50148225	R2MIPO11WGC9VU	0452281636	68466902	Ralph's Party:  A Novel	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A fun way to spend a few hours...	I read Ms. Jewell's most recent book - Thirtynothing, which I enjoyed a lot - and picked this up primarily because I'd liked the other one.  While I found it humorous, entertaining and interesting, I did not find it as much fun her second.<br />Ralph's Party revolves around the lives of several different people residing in the same apartment building in London.  The basement flat has three tenants, the next floor houses a couple and the top a single woman.  The novel traces the various experiences of each and the manner in which their paths cross and uncross, all of it leading to a climax at the eponymous party hosted by Ralph.<br />One of the central stories is a love triangle taking place in the basement flat between Jemima, her boyfriend/roommate and Ralph, the best friend who is besotted by Jemima.  This line seems to take precedence in some ways, and while I liked Jemima and Ralph fine, the other party was so repugnant as to throw the whole story off balance.  This seemed to recur at points as was the one thing that I disliked about the book - the interesting characters are counteracted by those that are less so or who, through the turn of events, wind up showing very unpleasant true colors.<br />Still, there was much to enjoy and laugh about, and I found myself tearing through it quickly.  Ralph's Party, while not as good as some I've read, is definitely better than much contemporary fiction.  Despite any reservations I may have, I give it a high rating because it's basically a fun, silly distraction - the flaws are minor annoyances that don't really detract from the entertainment value.	2001-10-31
US	50148225	R267V5HQSQS3ZC	0440509238	201081948	Spin Cycle	Books	5	1	2	N	N	A pleasantly entertaining, humorous read	I evaluate books based on how much I enjoy them, so I don't know why I was so surprised that I found Spin Cycle so entertaining and funny.  Populated with wacky but endearing characters, full of witty and wise excerpts from the heroine's stand-up routines and generally well-written, Spin Cycle is a delightful diversion.<br />The book revolves around the career and romantic struggles of a divorced British single mom, Rachel Katz, trying to be a comic despite the reservations of her parents and fiance, chronicling the ups and downs and obstacles she encounters.<br />While not exactly realistic - and not trying to be, I would guess - the supporting cast is delightful, from the pretentious artsy couple she cleans for to her Barbra Streisand obsessed son and the mysteriously sexy mechanic she meets, the people who surround Rachel are just about as interesting as the story.  The one exception being her fiance, who is so dull and anal it's just impossible to believe she would ever consider marrying him.  And the scenes taken from Rachel's stand-up are quite funny and believable - despite some necessary suspension of disbelief in other areas. <br />Spin Cycle doesn't offer any deep insights into human nature or motivations.  It's entertainment, pure and simple, and as such, it's really enjoyable.  I found it funny, interesting, difficult to put down and all together a great way to spend a few hours.  I would definitely suggest it to someone merely looking for some escape and distraction.	2001-10-28
US	50148225	R2BOE4B6MD43H6	0743406524	942829780	Me Myself I	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Entertaining fulfillment of the 'what if' fantasy...	The premise isn't new, particularly given a spate of movies on the subject within the past few years (including one based on this book, of course) - some glitch in the time/space continuum allows our heroine to see what her life would have been like if she'd made the OTHER choice at an important crossroads.  And as she experiences what might have been, she learns lots of important lessons about herself, human nature and living.<br />However many times I may have encountered this story, I still found this book very enjoyable.  The heroine in this instance is a journalist whose big choice was turning down the proposal of her then boyfriend, and the peek she gets is into life with hubby and kids versus career and empty nest.  Despite the rdiculousness of the premise, the central character and her reactions are believable, interesting and entertaining.  And the fact that it's quite a fun fantasy to envision for oneself contributes to the enjoyment of the book.<br />Ms. Karmel is a very good writer, and actually manages to add many touches of realism to the book while maintaining the dream-like quality.  Unfortunately, in addition to the now familiar foundation is an element of predictability that detracts a little from the books.  Still, it remains an interesting, entertaining read that tests a few theories of human nature without being too mundane or preachy.  Yet another great way to spend an afternoon and a few bucks.	2001-10-28
US	50148225	R28D7I3T37I3XO	0786885688	574463302	Shopgirl: A Novella	Books	5	13	14	N	N	Excellent entertainment from Steve Martin...	I'm a huge Steve Martin fan - his movies, his New Yorker pieces, everything - but I was still a rather tough sell for his foray into fiction with Shopgirl.  I must admit that I'm now an even bigger fan than I was before, as I found this novella to be warm, intelligent, honest, entertaining... basically terrific.<br />The 'shopgirl' of the title sells gloves - not the practical gardening kind - at Neiman Marcus in Los Angeles.  A low-wage worker and artist by avocation, she leads a quiet life with few friends until Ray, a millionaire businessman, takes a fancy to her and a strange relationship ensues.  The readers view the romance from both sides, Ray's perception differing quite dramatically from Mirabelle's, and watch as Mirabelle, particularly, changes and emerges a different person by the end.<br />As a novella, the exposition and details move much more quickly than in a longer work, and it was in this that I found Martin to be such a great fiction writer - what he chose to say was so expressive, so evocative, that it was as easy for me to envision the world he created as if he'd spent pages upon pages describing it.  Another of the many things (way too many to enumerate here) that I loved about this book - and that so impressed me - was how he conveyed the awkwardness of life and relationships and the way that seem so clear to one person are much less so to another.<br />While I found myself disappointed when the story ended, I think that the medium was perfect for the story - Mirabelle feels so slight and insignificant that a novella is perfect for her.  It certainly is a rewarding read and it left me hoping that Steve Martin plans many more novellas or novels or anything, really.  I recommend Shopgirl most highly.	2001-10-28
US	50148225	R1RH36BK18DZU7	0688180728	543757976	Last Chance Saloon: A Novel	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Another winner from Marian Keyes	Having already enjoyed the three previous Marian Keyes books I'd read - Rachel's Holidy and Lucy Sullivan is Getting Married more than Watermelon - I was looking forward to Last Chance Saloon, expecting more of Keyes' wit, wisdom and excellent characters.  And I was not disappointed.<br />This novel revolves around a trio of Irish friends, relocated to London, and their various friends, lovers, families and so forth.  The two women and man who make up the core group are quite different from each other, yet the bonds and interests that bind them together are clearly evident.  And each one is fully developed and unique, interacting with the world in his/her own distinct way.  They fall in and out of love, work, fight, worry about getting older, have fun and so on - pretty much a snapshot into the lives of some nicely drawn, interesting characters.<br />As with some of Keyes' other books, all is not fun and games - there's some serious subjects mixed in with humor and warmth.  Keyes' always seems to make this work - treating the heaviness of whatever topic with the respect it deserves but seeing the funnier side of things without demeaning or belittling it.  And given the strength of her characters, it works in Last Chance once again.<br />I base my ratings on how much I enjoyed reading a book, and I really enjoyed this one.  This is not to say, however, that it's not without a few minor problems here and there - things that can be irksome but do not detract from the overall success of the book.  Still, for anyone who knows Keyes' work, this is another great read - for anyone who doesn't, this is as good a place to start as any.  I'm already waiting for the next one...	2001-09-27
US	50148225	R1OV8HVOGC0JNN	0385323638	337263488	Pink Slip	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Distracting and delightful...	I found Pink Slip to be a very enjoyable, engrossing read that was pretty well-written, interesting and had fairly well-developed characters. There's a lot of humor interspersed with some very perceptive exploration of the corporate climate, inter-office dating and family life.<br />The novel revolves Lisa, an Italian American whose mother has certain expectations of her, ones that she doesn't necessarily want to fill - that her sister seems to have done what her mother wants complicates the picture. And then there's her cousin, her dear friend, who doesn't really fit into the family either because he's gay. With Lisa at the center and Dodie playing a significant role, the book explores Lisa's experience as she leaves New York City for a suburban corporation where she gets involved with a co-worker who also happens to be her superior.<br />There's lots in the book that is funny, some that's sad and a lot that is touching. Lisa's relationship is far from perfect from the start yet the reader understands what draws her to this person, although on some levels I found her interactions with and relationship with her cousin more compelling. Many aspects of Lisa's life are explored in detail - sometimes a little overdone - there are others that are glossed over, which at times can be a little unsatisfying. On the whole, though, as light entertainment, I found Pink Slip to be a lot better than many books out there and would recommend it without hesitation to anyone looking for a fun, distracting read.	2001-09-18
US	50148225	R3L4GTIRNV7926	0671775464	812693368	Playing Away	Books	3	3	5	N	N	Semi-interesting but with lots of shortcomings...	I usually rate books based not on any inherent literary quality but on how much I enjoyed reading them. And I did like some things about Playing Away, and there were moments when I found it interesting and wondered what would happen. But I felt unsatisfied when I'd finished it and found, on the whole, it to be a less than rewarding or enjoyable read.<br />The book revolves around our heroine's extra-marital affair and its consequences. By all accounts, including her own, she has the perfect marriage yet finds herself drawn into an affair with a man she cannot resist - her self-indulgence and narcissism does not make her the most appealing of heroines. Readers follow the course of this relationship, with her friends' reactions, the consequences and so forth.<br />The story itself is fairly well told, but much of the book is too contrived, the husband too perfect, the exposition way too long, the conclusion too sudden. Even though there were moments when I was curious about what happened next, as the book dragged on to its conclusion I simply whanted it to end. It's certainly not the best book I've read recently, nor is it much above average, despite some promising moments and fairly decent writing. Hopefully, Parks can do better - readers can, too.	2001-09-13
US	50148225	R38N1DP825WKPL	156025355X	59832297	The Betrayal of America: How the Supreme Court Undermined the Constitution and Chose Our President (Nation Books)	Books	5	26	38	N	N	The Supreme Court decision explained and examined...	It was not hard to assume the worst when the Supreme Courted handed down its decision - and the presidency - in the case of Bush vs. Gore. But what I didn't know - and learned here for the first time - was the legal basis for the arguments and the precendents that the court cited when siding with Bush. And it is this invaluable information that I learned from Bugliosi - not from any media accounts, not even from all that I've read on the Internet (although this essay was originally published in The Nation) - which in itself goes a very long way to prove one of Bugliosi's other points in this book - how complicit the media has been in convincing the country to accept as president a man who subverted democracy and was appointed by our highest court.<br />Bugliosi's anger is not even thinly concealed - can't go much further than calling the justices criminals - but he takes care to spell out his arguments rationally, logically and in great detail. Yet because he clearly documents the betrayal he describes, his rage seems entirely justified and understandable.<br />As Bugliosi points out, collective amnesia has gripped the country, with few remembering that Bush did not win the election. Even with Bugliosi's book in print - a clear indictment of the justices and their actions - one still hears little if anything about the Bush coup, at least in the mainstream media. It is precisely for these reasons that Bugliosi's book is so important - it's bad enough that the candidate who lost the vote is in office, but to forget how he got there makes the 'betrayal' even worse. For those still trying to comprehend what took place, this book is absolutely crucial reading.	2001-09-02
US	50148225	R3S059CEHX9KBD	0609806955	767801560	Who Cooked the Last Supper: The Women's History of the World	Books	5	27	30	N	N	Absolutely essential reading	I first read this book many years ago - under a different title - and I was delighted to come upon it again as it had fascinated, angered and inspired me the first time around.  Its impact is still intense several years later - it's amazing how different history - or herstory - looks when the half of the population that's been denigrated and ignored is taken into account.<br />This book explores women's role in life and work from the beginning of recorded time all the way up to the present.  Who knew that for 25,000 years - up until about 2,000 years ago - that every known society worshiped an all powerful goddess?  I certainly didn't.  Miles explodes the myths of 'man's' evolution and carefully examines the ways in which woman's position altered throughout different eras.  While she uses 'famous' women as references, she's careful to point out that these stories only represent a fraction of what women were actually doing, and what they were doing is generally very different from how it's typically portrayed.<br />One criticism I've heard about the book - but do not share - is its simplistic view, that it comes from a particular position with particular assumptions and goes on from there.  To me, this book is merely one perspective on history that uses a completely different model of interpretation.  Basically, while it's a terrific book, it's still just one book tackling a subject - the history of the world - about which thousands upon thousands have been written. <br />I've found this to be a thoroughly delightful and rewarding read, as it taught me that to say that women and their experiences are typically not included in the standard version of history is not an overstatement - I learned so much that I feel I should've known already.  However frustrated I became at how horribly women were treated and the intense, deeply held prejudices against them, I was thrilled to be seeing history in a new way.  I think that everyone should read this book, and now that I'vefound it again, I'm going to start with the people I know... I simply could not give it a better review.	2001-08-18
US	50148225	R2L7V6MCY81LL2	0393041832	967454060	The Bush Dyslexicon: Observations on a National Disorder	Books	5	12	16	N	N	A frightening perspective on Bush the younger - and elder	This is not merely a compendium of George W.'s - or George H.W.'s - malapropisms and incoherent ramblings.  What Miller does - and what is both unique and fascinating about this book - is look behind the language and consider what we're actually being told.  And while plenty of people focus on the what's being said, few talk about what it means.<br />Miller spends some time exploring George the senior's speaking troubles and what might be the cause of his bizarre use of language.  And in doing so - and talking about both George's feelings about Nixon - he reveals much about the junior Bush, his temper, his relationship with his father and how far he'd go to win.<br />What's most important about the book, though, is the disection of Bush's language and comments.  He presents transcripts on a variety of topics and then parses and analyzes them.  For example, his reaction to Gail Sheehy's suggestion that W. is dyslexic was 'I don't know how she knew that...' - pretty much a confirmation that it's true.<br />Much has been made of Bush's intellectualy capacity, but in this well-written, timely book, Miller posits that what might be more worrying is that he's smarter than he acts and that the way he acts is just that - a facade.  Put in the context of recent political events - the impeachment and persecutions of the Clintons, the Florida election - Miller presents a portrait that anyone concerned about that state of the nation should take a look at.	2001-08-18
US	50148225	RLLO720QFH7A5	0805063889	671016982	Nickel and Dimed: On (Not) Getting By in America	Books	5	6	7	N	N	A brave, honest and important book not to be missed	Barbara Ehrenreich has always been one of my heroes, but after reading Nickel and Dimed, I have even greater respect for her.  Few social critics or perhaps any politicians have the temerity to do what she did - to actually see whether they can survive in the same low-paying jobs thousands and thousands of Americans depend on to live.  As an outsider looking in, she provides invaluable insight into the working poor.<br />Ms. Ehrenreich never pretends to be in the same situation as many of those she works with and recognizes her advantages.  But as she tries to earn enough money to live on and have enough for the next month's rent in three different states - Florida, Maine and Minnesota - she realizes that these advantages are pretty much the opposite.  What she learns is fascinating, disturbing, educational and so much more ... For me, it helped put a face to all those women who were taken off the welfare rolls and reveal the lives that awaited them, as well as giving voices to many who never would have had an audience.<br />I think that her surprise at how little difference her education and experience makes is especially informative, as she goes to lengths to make sure not to 'give' herself away.  And in the end she learns more about herself and the hidden side of American life than she anticipated.<br />I could go on and on here I found this book so wonderful and upsetting, but I don't want to give away much of her actual experience or revelations.  It did, however, open my eyes and my mind and make me think differently about a number of things, and for this reason, I recommend it highly.  While it may not be a 'perfect' book, there is still so much that anyone and everyone can learn from it that I certainly hope it finds a wide audience, giving many who would otherwise never have one a peek into a whole different world.	2001-07-13
US	50148225	R3MHAODTHJE84O	068818071X	519845136	Rachel's Holiday	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Another terrific book from Marian Keyes	I found Marian Keyes 'by accident,' having bought Watermelon and Lucy Sullivan Is Getting Married based on reviews I read here and then forgetting about them.  But before I was halfway through Lucy, which I read first, I'd already scoured Amazon to see what other books the wonderful Keyes has written and thus obtained Rachel's Holiday.  While this book deals with issues the other books touched on, it explores them more thoroughly, magically combining the serious and hilarious with great results.<br />Rachel is one of the Walsh sisters introduced in Watermelon, and we meet her just as her family is rushing her off to rehab, her resistance somewhat worn down by the knowledge that celebrities often dry out in what must be a very posh place.  The book takes us through Rachel's stay, her reaction to being there, her denial, her interaction with others, the process of beginning to see and understand herself, all intercut with flashbacks of her previous life that illustrate clearly for the reader how Rachel perceives her actions and how others do.<br />It's a very serious topic - drug addiction - and Keyes treats it with respect, not overdoing things, but also approaches it realistically, revealing the humor when it should be there and, above all, never condescending to the characters or readers.  She somehow makes it all fun and engrossing without diminishing the gravity of the subject.  Even though I truly enjoyed Keyes' other books, I was very pleasantly surprised by how complicated and mature this one was, and I recommend it without hesitation to pretty much everyone.	2001-07-05
US	50148225	R2GPFMW4X24IKT	0375707468	700978897	The Pig Farmer's Daughter and Other Tales of American Justice: Episodes of Racism and Sexism in the Courts from 1865 to the Present	Books	5	12	13	N	N	Thorough yet disturbing discussion of 'justice'...	While there are probably very few people who think justice is truly blind to race, gender, class and sexual orientation, this look at the courts from Restoration until today is still shocking. The systemic protection of 'white male privilege' has made it impossible for just about anyone and everyone to get a fair trial. And throughout this book Berry argues convincingly, logically, simply and clearly why this has been the case.<br />Berry's thesis is that the court - through judges' decisions and verdicts - uphold the prevailing 'stories' of the day, explaining why some black men - under the protection of white male privilege - were punished less harshly than others. Or why black men were so quickly and easily convicted of raping white women, or why it was considered pretty much impossible to rape a black woman or a poor white one. And on and on and on... According to Berry, judges would twist the understanding of statutes and laws to conform to and support the stories. When, after WWII, stories began to change, the different attitudes and ideas were reflected in court decisions, and Brown vs. the Board of Education, Roe vs. Wade, and other cases were possible.<br />Berry certainly creates a very compelling case, showing the effects of these 'stories,' the efforts to change them and the ensuing results. Although I do believe that other elements - even, as the Supreme Court illustrated so clearly during the election fiasco, personal ideology - play a role, I still think that Berry is describing a very powerful phenonmenon. And Berry's evidence of a strong bias in the courts is something every American should know about. In fact, I think this should be mandatory reading for pretty much everybody.	2001-07-01
US	50148225	R3C6BQG6JW7TLF	0385335482	841557271	Confessions of a Shopaholic (Shopaholic, No 1)	Books	5	11	13	N	N	A thoroughly fun, entertaining read	I was prompted to buy this book by all of the good reviews that I read here, but I must admit that I didn't expect it to be quite as enjoyable as it was. While the familiar plot line is recognizable - single woman working in London, miserable in her job and love life, quirky and amusing, etc. - this book has a different approach - the heroine's life revolves around her attempts to fill the emptiness in her life with possessions and she winds up over her head in debt. She's bored with her life yet doesn't even know where to begin to change it, finally finding salvation in the most unlikely places.<BR>I don't want to belabor the plot or the quality of writing and character development (both well above average for the genre). The best aspect of this book for me was how entertaining and funny it was while containing much in it that is easy to relate to - sure, at times it stretched believability but not so far that the book itself became ridiculous. Shopaholic is a delightful distraction, well worth the investment and one of the better entries in the now-familier Bridget genre. I recommend it most highly - it's a wonderfully entertaining way to spend an afternoon.	2001-06-30
US	50148225	R1HIFS25PAGOA2	0446526479	831796799	Amanda's Wedding	Books	5	19	21	N	N	A decadently fun read...	There is obviously no shortage of Bridge Jones-like books about single women in London, and many of them tend to blur together.  Amanda's Wedding, however, stands out for the sheer enjoyment and satisfaction of it.  I breezed through it in a day, loved every moment of it and think everyone looking for a great escape should do the same.<br />The book revolves around Amanda's wedding, but not Amanda.  Amanda is the old childhood friend who suddenly became rich, started acting quite posh and then found her old friends not up to her new refined tastes.  Our heroine, thankfully, is not Amanda but one of her castaways, still close to the other desertee.  Occasionally Amanda deigns to contact her old friends, and the catalyst for the story is news of her engagement.<br />I don't want to include any spoilers here, so I will be very basic - the plot entails the experiences of our herione and her friend leading up to, during and after Amanda's wedding.  There are men, jobs, disasters, good times, bad times and so on.  And while Amanda herself is quite the stereotype, she's also somehow real and believable, the perfect foil to the others.  Along the way, a slew of good characters are introduced, all of whom are charming and funny.<br />This books is definitely one to be enjoyed and not one that teaches the meaning of life.  But it certainly delivers, and I highly recommend it to anyone looking for a well-written, satsifying, fun and funny book.  It's very much worth the investment and is a perfect way to cheer yourself up or just have a good time.  I expected a cookie-cutter novel and was delighted with what I found - I unknowingly made a wise purchase, indeed!	2001-04-26
US	50148225	R38TQPBM9OX947	0380976188	122477335	Lucy Sullivan Is Getting Married	Books	5	1	1	N	N	An enjoyable surprise, indeed!	Although this book invites the inevitable comparison to Bridget Jones - and I liked those books as well - I must admit that I was utterly surprised by how much I enjoyed this one.  I remember buying it based upon the reviews I read here, and then leaving it on my shelf for months, all but forgetting about it.  As I faced the horror of moving I plucked it off the shelf for some distraction, and I found myself so engrossed that I let my unpacked boxes sit for ...well, longer than I should have, let's just say.<br />The 'heroine,' Lucy, is a single London woman in a job that she hates and that's also incredibly dull.  The book takes us through events in her life as she deals with some pretty complicated emotions and situations, all of which are treated in a fairly realistic and definitely humorous manner.  All of the characters are wonderful - and, for the most part, seem as real as Lucy does - somehow, Keyes describes even those on the periphery completely and charmingly, giving each a distinct character without making them caricatures.  As the story is told from Lucy's sometimes naive perspective, the reader often sees more than Lucy herself, which is part of what makes this novel so engrossing.<br />My one criticism - and it's very minor - is that there are some areas in which Lucy is just too naive.  She reads all sorts of books and is very up on pop psychology yet is pretty unbelievably blind to certain things.  It's a silly flaw, really, as it only points out how realistic and wonderful this novel is that I found this irregularity so glaring.  Nor did it stop me from tearing through the book in a day and feeling inordinately disappointed when I finished.  I recommend this book very highly - it's not usually the sort that I read, and I was extremely pleasantly, enjoyably and humorously surprised.  Now that it's in paperback, I cannot stress what a bargain this book is at any price!  Please read it!!	2001-04-26
US	50148225	RJLT0ACV07QV0	0385501005	499767451	Mr. Commitment	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A twist on a basic formula...	Yes, here it is, another book about a single Londoner, unlucky in love and with jobs.. but this time around, our heroine is actually a hero - wow. And I must admit, that while I enjoy the Bridge Jones books and their clones, this was a welcome break from that formula and opened up a whole new world by showing things from the male perspective.<br />Instead of the perfect boyfriend, this time around there's a perfect girlfriend our hero has mucked things up with - and the central theme ... can Duffy commit or not? Despite the very typical premise of a commitment-phobe male, Mr. Commitment is not a typical book - it's extremely well-written, humorous, enjoyable and quite believable. As Duffy reaches his decision, you realize that you've pretty much watched him get there, seen why he did it, watched him bond the way guys do and everything falls into place without being contrived or too shmarmy (of course there is some shmarm, as it's also basically a romance). And it didn't feel as though someone had taken the same old plot and simply switched genders - throughout it felt as though things were being told from a male perspective.<br />I definitely enjoyed this book both more than I expected and more than I've liked others in a similar vein. There are great characters, a good story, humor, drama (of the funny sort) and a whole new lens through which to view things. I think this book has a lot to offer to anyone, whether or not you like the genre. I came away very impressed and surprised by how much I liked it and how highly I recommend it.	2001-04-26
US	50148225	R1C49Z86IR81A4	0743400828	415925706	Girl Talk	Books	5	13	14	N	N	A well written, wonderful book	Although I didn't know what to expect from Girl Talk, it was not such a touching, honest portrayal of a relationship between a mother and daughter.  Our heroine, now a single advertising executive living in Manhattan, looks back on a rather bizarre summer she spent with her mother, tracing events that took place then and thinking about the effects they have had on her present life.  A complicated, somewhat strange woman, Lissy's mother used this summer to tell Lissy 'the truth' about herself and her life - and it these stories that form the basis of the novel, introducing characters, revealing their experiences, and so on.  The result is a complicated, touching, honest, delightful depiction of life, love, happiness, relationships, deception and so on.  It's a novel that's definitely about people rather than events, and Julianna Baggott is definitely an author to watch.  I was very pleasantly surprised by this book, and enjoyed it so much that I hope others will check it out as well.	2001-03-05
US	50148225	R2IBDZUH69HV7M	0452282128	540342564	Thirtynothing	Books	5	13	13	N	N	A wonderfully run, engaging read...	I was pretty confident very early on in Thirty Nothing that I new what was going to happen in 'the end.'  But what I found so interesting and fun about this book was that it didn't matter, it didn't at all detract from my enjoyment of the novel.  And the main reason for that is the two central characters, Dig and Nadine, two Londoners who are fleshed-out, realistic, funny, exciting, fascinating, amusing 'people.'  The characters with whom they interact are well-developed but simply aren't as dynamic as these two.  The 'love interests' who distract Dig and Nadine are pretty repulsive to the readers, but you can still understand - and perhaps be annoyed at  - why these two would get drawn in as they do.  There's a lot of the universal 'turning 30-what the hell am I doing with my life-do I have to grow up-do I want to grow up' and so forth stuff that is easy to relate to - even though it's set in England - and is portrayed pretty honestly and true to life.<br />But more than anything, Thirty Nothing is entertaining, funny and enjoyable.  I found it a perfect distraction on the crowded subway as I made my way to and from work - helped me completely escape the misery.  I highly recommend this novel to anyone who wants a well-written, smart, amusing read - it's simply marvelous.	2001-03-05
US	50148225	R1R6OCFJAKTW19	0262720310	569354618	Why So Slow? The Advancement of Women	Books	5	22	24	N	N	Have we come a long way, baby?	I discovered this book browsing through the bibliography of Woman, An Intimate Geography by Natalie Angier.  Some of the statistics Angier used truly frightened me, and this excellent book turned out to be the source.  This book paints a fascinatingly disturbing picture of the status of women in modern society, and Valian relies on statistics, data and research to back up her theory that we haven't progressed quite as far as we might think.  Because Why So Slow? focuses on research rather than anecdotal evidence or experiences, it does come across as 'somewhat dry,' as one reviewer noted, but I still couldn't put it down as I completely engrossed in and upset by what I was reading.  I highly recommend this book to anyone at all interested in the position of women in current society.  It certainly opened my eyes and has helped me notice things that otherwise wouldn't have caught my attention - examples of gender bias are so pervasive, and Valian does not sugar coat the story.  Again, Why So Slow is invaluable for people - men and women alike - who are concerned about women's place in the modern world - I cannot recommend it highly enough.  Be prepared to be annoyed and disturbed but don't miss it!	2001-02-10
US	50148225	R3HIASNZ1E70U3	0385498411	475246433	Woman: An Intimate Geography	Books	5	34	38	N	N	An informative, worthwhile and entertaining read...	.. others have missed the point of Woman, that it is a book celebrating female physiology and biology in a way that it often has not been by the (typically now but almost always in years past) male science writers.  This is not to say that there are no good books about the female body, simply that this once should be taken in the construct in which it was conceived.<br />Angier certainly does convey the wonder of the female body, the absolute miracle of the biology that creates and sustains life.  And she also makes a compelling case for the argument that the biology of women has traditionally been seen as 'other,' with the norm being male, and that writing, opinion and diagnoses (particularly psychological) have often sprung from this misconception - the fact that every fetus starts of as female still does nothing to convince people that woman are not the second sex.  Many of the recent books I've read in evolutionary biology highlight this basic dichotomy, with the male traits still somehow the 'better,' more highly evolved ones (of course, that many female writers feel differently illustrates clearly how science, a 'rational,' 'logical' and 'intellectual' discipline is nevertheless highly subjective).<br />I think that Woman is marvelous in its celebration of woman and her unique capacity to give birth (with the help, of course...).  The myths about menstruation that have been around forever - including the current theory du jour that women don't NEED to menstruate - have made it a curse, a major pain, a source of suffering, and it cretinaly is amazingly refreshing to have it and other parts of being female actually spoken of in wonder at nature's incredible artistry to devise such cool ways of keeping a woman's body healthy.  <br />I am not a scientist, so I cannot vouch for the accuracy of her scientific data, but I did learn a lot that has been borne out in other things that I've read.  Angier's wit, intelligence and incredible writing made it impossible for me to put this book down, and I have since then recommended it to many women who have loved it - and who got sick of me saying 'wanna hear something cool?'  I think this book is also important in the way it approaches female biology, not as something incidental but as part of the miracle of nature.  In a society in which women are encouraged to hate their bodies, I think this book has incredible significance and recommend it most highly.  It is, however, as much a social commentary as anything else, so for 'pure' science you might, as others have suggested here, want to look elsewhere as well.	2001-02-10
US	50148225	RNUNCT29P1IBL	0679408428	785184810	Not One of the Boys: Living Life as a Feminist	Books	5	6	6	N	N	A brave, triumphant memoir...	Not One of the Boys is satisfying on so many levels, as a biography, as a snapshot of the Women's Movement from its inception through the 1990s and as a discussion of how laws affect women.  Brenda Feigen writes honestly, clearly and beautifully about her own experiences, what she sees as the failures of current feminism, theoretical differences between feminists and much, much more.  I was completely enthralled by this book.   Ms. Feigen very clearly conveys the excitement of the 1970s, the legal victories, the setbacks and her own emotions when facing a level of sexism that seems almost unimaginable today, although it took place less than 40 years ago.  But this book is very personal, too, as she speaks about her marriage and other experiences that have shaped her perceptions and illustrate quite clearly the old saying 'the personal is political.'  I could go on and on about how terrific this book is, how smart, how inspiring and how touching.  Yet the real point is that I think that there's something in it for everyone, and I very highly recommend it.  There's a great deal to be learned from this book and I hope that many, many other women and men explore it.	2001-02-02
US	50148225	R2P0GEEDUJMJZ1	0684808129	350028809	Five Sisters: The Langhornes  of Virginia	Books	5	12	13	N	N	Fascinating portrait of a family and its role in history	Throughout Five Sisters, I couldn't quite forget that the author is the grandson of one of the Langhorne women.  Of course, if he hadn't been, he never would have had access to the letters he uses throughout the book - an absolutely priceless insight into what the sisters were actually thinking and saying to each other.  But I kept my eye out for the 'bias' I was sure I would find yet that I never quite encountered.<br />While these letters form the basis of the book, it has obviously been meticulously researched and even includes the author's own memories of his family.  The focus is mainly on two sisters with less attention paid to the others, and often only as they interact with Nancy and Phyllis.  But Fox does a great job depicting the complexities of the women, especially Nancy, whose Christian Science religion, stubborness and type of humor make her a particularly difficult person to define.<br />This book is as much about the history of the time as the Langhorne sisters themselves.  By marrying into various families - and with Nancy Langhorne, later Lady Astor as a member of Parliament - the sisters lives intersected with the most significant moments in the history of the time, whether the Treaty of Versaille or the negotiations leading up to Hitler's rise in power.  For those expecting a traditional biography, this aspect might be offputting, but I think in order to understand the sisters one must get a sense of the time they lived in and the history in which they were intimately involved.<br />There's so much covered in this book that it isn't surprising that there does seem to be bits missing here and there.  But the scope of what is there is very satisfying, very well written and really provided a sense of this amazing family and their lives.  Those not interested in history beware, but for anyone else, I recommend Five Sisters highly.	2001-01-22
US	50148225	R33M733J72PGBT	0060393203	956920947	Getting Over It: A Novel	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Simply put, an absolutely fantabulous book!	I loved this book.  A lot.  But what's so strange is that when I tried to convey exactly why, everything came out sort of negative... very long, very complicated and busy, the plot sounds like every other book these days - non-skinny single London woman with a kooky mother looking for love in all the wrong (and some right) places...when I wasn't thinking anything negative at all!  In fact, all of these things are what makes Getting Over It so great - and it's a tribute to Anna Maxted's writing skills that she can make a book such as this so unique, original, powerful and downright funny.<br />I really don't want to give anything away because I so enjoyed not knowing what  exactly was going to happen next or, perhaps more to the point, what silly thing Helen would do next.  The character are marvelous - living, breathing, fully-fleshed out creatures... even those who are, and are meant to be, caricatures or stereotypes (it's somehow like Maxted gives them more substance than they even know they have... that's a neat trick, but how does she do it?).  Getting Over It also deals with complicated emotions - there's much more to Helen and her life than her mother or men, and we get to explore some of it.  That's rare these days, as characters emotional lives are usually, um, rather simple?<br />Best of all is the heroine, Helen.  Sure, you could easily compare her to any of the other fictional single Londoners who populate the literary landscape these days, but that doesn't do her justice - she's smart, funny, insecure, impulsive, caring, emotional and real, and we witness a big chunk of her life (an inordinately long time in modern fiction) as she deals with a huge loss and other everyday disaster....  I was very sad to see her go when I finished  the book - I almost didn't want to - but I HAD to find out what happened.  At any rate, don't be turned off by the cosmetic similarities between this and others - Getting Over It and Helen are unique, and this book is simply too good to pass up.  I cannot recommend it enough!	2001-01-12
US	50148225	R3OXGPW6F3YPAX	0380805421	10322470	Smart Vs. Pretty	Books	2	2	3	N	N	Contrived and disappointing	This book could have been fine - a story of the struggle as two sisters try to maintain the family business amidst late 20th century commercialism and materialism, as the chain stores wipe out everything else.  And with sisters and people as different as these two, they're bound to have a whole peck of troubles, enough to entertain and interest a reader for a couple of hundred pages.<br />But Smart vs. Pretty falls short of even the most modest expectations.  For starters, neither sister is particularly appealing, with the 'smart' one being stereotypically cold and uninteresting while the 'pretty' one is as lacking in common sense as she is full of new-age intuition.  These just are not very dynamic characters, and a book built around them collapses because the center is so weak, and there are really no other characters that are strong or interesting.<br />This would be enough of a problem as it stands, but the plot is utterly ridiculous, verging from what I assumed with be a small story about a coffee shop to a tale of murder, revenge and smuggling - seriously.  And this was so not what I expected - or what I felt to be even remotely within the realm of possibility for either character - that I felt the book dissolved into ludicrousness.<br />I probably wouldn't have kept reading or be bothered so much if I hadn't felt as though the book or the author had potential.  Clearly, many other readers did like the book, as their reviews indicate, but this is one I wish that I had steered clear of... or not spent my money on!	2000-12-18
US	50148225	R3VC7PYQTA7DJV	0684857820	784206304	Lucky	Books	5	171	186	N	N	Brutally honest, terrifying yet ultimately rewarding read	What happened to Alice Sebold shouldn't happen to anyone.  That she survived her ordeal at all is miraculous, but that she found a voice with which to describe her experience with clarity, with tremendous insight and with warmth is almost unbelievable, yet this is exactly what she does with Lucky.<br />As a studen at Syracuse University in 1980, Alice is the victim of a horribly brutal rape as she leaves a friends house.  The experience understandably shatters her, but even she does not realize the depth of her feelings or the effect they are having on her life and behavior.  She eventually sees her rapist again, and takes us through the trial and subsequent events in her life, which are tied intricately to the rape even though she is unaware of it.  The afterward picks up ten years after the book opens as she is still battling with the emotional scars that have not yet healed.<br />That anyone can talk about such horror at all is amazing, but Alice really allows readers inside her head, hiding nothing from them.  Her painful interactions with her family and friends as they try to do what's best for her, and as she tries to convince them that she's 'recovered' come across as achingly real as they were for her.  Readers, too, can see how damaged Alice still feels even as she tells herself that she's not, and I felt myself rooting for this heroic woman throughout the book, hoping that she would find whatever justice that she could and pick up the pieces of her life.<br />This is no maudlin tale, not at all romanticized or sugar coated, which may be difficult for some to take, as it was for me at times.  But I kept reading because I was so amazed at what was being offered, that someone was sharing such a personal experience, something that affects more women than most people know.  I am fortunate enough not to know someone who has endured a similar ordeal, although I now think I have some very limited insight into what a person might experience.  <br />I applaud AliceSebold for her bravery in putting forth her story, and I think this book is an important one.  It's not an easy read nor one to be taken lightly, but I feel that I learned so much from it.  And the fact that this book represents Alice's triumph makes it all the more rewarding.	2000-12-05
US	50148225	R1TCX0R6CRDOVU	0425176053	449481739	Come Together	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Delightfully funny and entertaining	This book proved another delightful surprise, witty, engaging and even honest.  It felt quite original, despite another exploration of the singles scene in London, given its dual narrators, both of whom are very likable characters.  And you really get inside both their heads, seeing things from both perspectives and getting to really know - not to mention like - both of them.<br />Amy and Jack are two single people living in London, working to get their various careers on track and trying to figure, well, life out, I guess.  When they meet, Amy's sick of being lonely and Jack's in the midst of a bout of one-night-stands, so they're not exactly on the same wave length.  But the book details how they get there, with obstacles along the way.  And even though it's pretty clear how things will end up, the trip is still very nice.<br />All of the characters are richly drawn, with a few minor exceptions, which helps keep the book interesting.  More than anything, however, it's lighthearted fun, a sure cure for the blues - I'm very glad I picked up this book when a little cranky, as I read it all in one sitting and emerged slightly more cheery.  I definitely think this is an enjoyable, worthwhile read that's different from a lot of others and is certainly time - and money - well spent.	2000-12-05
US	50148225	RIKKVC5KYC9IH	0968480403	243309993	Shut Up and Smile: Supermodels, the Dark Side	Books	3	13	14	N	N	Sloppy journalistic account of interesting topic...	Perhaps it's the English major in me, but I'm always on the lookout for typos or mistakes in the books I read.  When I find one or two, I usually dismiss them, but when they appear with great consistency I begin to wonder how much faith the book company or editor had in whatever work I'm reading.  Such is the case with Shut Up and Smile, a supposed journalistic account of the behind the scenes world of supermodels, a book as riddled with problems as it is rife with typos and formatting problems.<br />First of all, the subject is very interesting, and Halperin does discuss some truly frightening aspects of the trade, a definite wake up call to those considering entering the business.  But a lot of what he writes is inconsistent or seemingly random - a chapter on the 'bad' years of the mega-supermodels merely catalogs some well known incidents without delving any further.  And while he reiterates constantly about certain problems, he again just touches them on the surface, providing only a few examples to back up, for example, his claims that many, many models are murdered each year.  One of the strangest chapters is one about Stella McCartney, and whether she is famous for her own talent or by virtue of being Paul's daughter.  Not uninteresting, mind you, but what on earth does it have to do with the dark side of supermodels?  And for that matter, if the author went undercover to 'discover' the true world of modeling, how come he uses mostly anecdotal and not personal references?<br />The only reason I gave this book three stars is because the topic is interesting - its presentation may be below par, but that doesn't change the importance or relevance of the subject.   It's fascinating to learn about rampant criminal activity behind the scenes, drug use, virtual prostitution and so forth, and for that the book is worth reading.  I suppose I just wish that he'd dug deeper, provided more insight or evidence or details, repeated less and proven his startling, and significant, claims.  As an overview, it's a good introduction, but it only skims the surface.  Its structural, language and editorial problems unfortunately undermine it's power yet it remains a fairly intriguing read.	2000-11-29
US	50148225	R392IOX2OPY4MN	0968480403	243309993	Shut Up and Smile: Supermodels, the Dark Side	Books	3	25	26	N	N	Sloppy journalistic account of interesting topic...	Perhaps it's the English major in me, but I'm always on the lookout for typos or mistakes in the books I read.  When I find one or two, I usually dismiss them, but when they appear with great consistency I begin to wonder how much faith the book company or editor had in whatever work I'm reading.  Such is the case with Shut Up and Smile, a supposed journalistic account of the behind the scenes world of supermodels, a book as riddled with problems as it is rife with typos and formatting problems.<br />First of all, the subject is very interesting, and Halperin does discuss some truly frightening aspects of the trade, a definite wake up call to those considering entering the business.  But a lot of what he writes is inconsistent or seemingly random - a chapter on the 'bad' years of the mega-supermodels merely catalogs some well known incidents without delving any further.  And while he reiterates constantly about certain problems, he again just touches them on the surface, providing only a few examples to back up, for example, his claims that many, many models are murdered each year.  One of the strangest chapters is one about Stella McCartney, and whether she is famous for her own talent or by virtue of being Paul's daughter.  Not uninteresting, mind you, but what on earth does it have to do with the dark side of supermodels?  And for that matter, if the author went undercover to 'discover' the true world of modeling, how come he uses mostly anecdotal and not personal references?<br />The only reason I gave this book three stars is because the topic is interesting - its presentation may be below par, but that doesn't change the importance or relevance of the subject.   It's fascinating to learn about rampant criminal activity behind the scenes, drug use, virtual prostitution and so forth, and for that the book is worth reading.  I suppose I just wish that he'd dug deeper, provided more insight or evidence or details, repeated less and proven his startling, and significant, claims.  As an overview, it's a good introduction, but it only skims the surface.  Its structural, language and editorial problems unfortunately undermine it's power yet it remains a fairly intriguing read.	2000-11-29
US	50148225	R2JZ85W4ZN4KS7	0375706429	312828157	Otherwise Engaged: A Novel	Books	5	6	6	N	N	A very pleasant surprise...	I didn't expect to like this book as much as I did.  In fact, when I saw it on my bookshelf I couldn't even remember why I bought it.  Imagine my surprise to find a witty, honest account of a woman's experience with engagement, relationships and life.<br />The story is told in the first person by a woman in her late thirties who has given her boyfriend an ultimatum, which he accepts.  As she moves toward marriage, she encounters many ups and downs and emotional obstacles, all of which are related in a straight forward manner, easy to believe and relate to.  This is not a book about a woman who simply has to get married; she really cares about her intended, even panics at the thought of life without him.  Yet she still experiences doubts and jitters, a clear illustration of the effect that marriage can have of even the strongest relationships.<br />I highly recommend Otherwise Engaged to anyone, married, single, engaged or not.  There's a lot in it that everybody can relate to, whether her fear of commitment or of being found out, proven to be the 'phony' she feels she is.  And all of this is presented in a funny, smart and engaging (no pun intended) way.  It's certainly good for a laugh, but I was very pleasantly suprised to find out how much more there is to it.  Enjoy!	2000-11-25
US	50148225	RM6ZEFRRXJKZQ	0684865386	875879761	Namedropper: A Novel	Books	5	0	1	N	N	A rough start, but more than more the investment...	When I first started Namedropper, I felt myself to be slightly disappointed.  It sure was fascinating, but I didn't feel myself connecting to the characters.  But the more I read, the more engrossed I became, finding it to be an intelligent, well-written, fascinating account of life through the eyes of a teenage Londoner.<br />The namedropping in the title refers to Viva's, the heroine, tendency to sprinkle the names of old movie starts throughout her discussions, not her use of the famuous names of people she knows.  And her world is certainly a colorful one, one that provides room for her vivid imagination and one populated with fascinating friends and foes.<br />One of the book's greatest assets is that, while it is presented through Viva's eyes, you learn a lot about her and can see things about her life and circumstances that she can't see herself.  And certainly by the end of the book, I was so entranced by her that I didn't want to say goodbye.<br />Namedropper is one of the most interesting novels I've read lately, very different from so many others that share similar traits (namely, the first person female narrator living in London... sound familiar?).  On the one hand, she's a teenager, but on the other she's a really unique character with a unique perspective, one that is refreshing and engaging and delightful.  For those looking for an intelligent and fascinating read, Namedropper is definitely a place to start.  And I am so glad that, despite my early and brief misgivings, I kept going - I would have hated to have missed out on Viva's adventures.	2000-11-25
US	50148225	R2NLG98Y09M762	0767905172	310021894	Jemima J: A Novel	Books	3	10	13	N	N	Somewhat entertaining but disappointing	It seems as though so many books these days are trying to be, or at least bill themselves as, the next 'Bridget Jones.'  Jemima J is no exception, at least from the perspective of a weight/man obsessed herione who tells about her life in the first person.  In this case, a third-person, all-knowing narrator pops in at times to judge Jemima and foretell the future, a feature both off-putting and intrusive in some places.  But the character of Jemima is fairly likable, her experiences are relatively interesting and the book does have some amusing bits.  There are, unfortunately, enough flaws to undermine it's good points.<br />The book starts out fairly well-grounded, telling about Jemima's life, work, etc. in London.  But when it pops over to California, the story slowly beings to lose credibility, finally sinking into ridiculousness as events unfold.  I think it would be easier to dismiss these shortcomings if they weren't so unnecessary - removing Jemima from London is one thing, yet putting her into such unbelievable circumstance totally detracts from the 'realism' the author tries initially to establish.<br />That the book is populated with unlikable characters doesn't help either.  Jemima's life is supposed to improve when she gets thin, but practically every slim woman in the novel is shallow, materialistic and rather dull, even the ones who are her 'friends.'  The fact that one of them only starts to really like Jemima as she loses weight, giving her the opportunity to play dress up with Jemima as though she's a doll, doesn't help either.<br />Jemima J. is missing the sharp wit behind 'Bridget Jones,' although it seems clear that that novel was quite an inspiration for this one.  And it is a distracting, entertaining read at times.  But as I got towards the end, the ludicrousness of the plot twists - not to mention some of Jemima's decisions/choices - totally undermined my enjoyment, and I finished more disappointed than anything.  Well, not true - I was prettyperturbed that the author held Jemima up as a role model throughout, yet saw to it that circumstances made her anything but.  It's these flaws that make Jemima J. a slight, moderately fun but ultimately very unsatisfying read.	2000-11-18
US	50148225	R6CB622BX8JB7	0375757147	196227364	Shrub : The Short but Happy Political Life of George W. Bush	Books	5	25	30	N	N	An informative and fair assessment	I read this book several weeks before the election, and found it to be a well-balanced, witty, intelligent look at George W. Bush's record in Texas.  This account does not detail his 'youthful indiscretions,' whether drugs or alcohol, or engage in any character assassination.  Ivins merely reviews the tenure of George W. as Texas governor and provides a shocking, illuminative picture of his style, priorities and political tactics.  Her own politics are no secret, but she accords Bush a lot of respect as governor and avoids the dirtier sort of mud-slinging and yellow journalism.<br />The fact is that 'Dubya,' as he's called, has very little political background, being a governor in the state with the weakest governor system - where the lieutenant governor has more power than he (illuminated clearly by a comparison of the number of people who report to him as opposed to the mayor of Chicago).  But Ivins shows how he does use his power when he can exert it (the legislature meets only every two years) and this is truly frightening.  Much of what she describes has been mentioned in the press, but a lot of it hasn't - his record on pollution, things which he's taken credit for that he had literally NOTHING to do with - which is worrying (so much for that 'liberal' bias in the media!).  It's amazing to think that people could be so ignorant - or someone so deceptive - about a candidate's background in a presidential race, not to mention the candidate who appears to have won the election.<br />It's too late for this book to change anybody's mind about whom they vote for, but I still think it's important that people are aware of what Bush has and has not done for Texas, as it seems as though this is the best way to judge any politican instead of focusing on rhetoric.  Those who like/support Bush obviously see this as biased and unwarranted, an attack on a good guy who has done good things - yes, sure, good things for his donors and companies and the rich, but not for ANYBODYelse, particularly the mentally retarded he seems so fond of executing.  Yet there's no arguing with the record, or facts, and Ivins pretty much - not totally, of course - avoids judging and disparaging.  If anything, she's enthralled by Dubya's goofiness and his unique place among a lot of wacky Texas pols, not to mention the fact that he - a lightweight - might be president.  All I'm waiting for now is her book on Gore, which I will read with as much delight - and with an open mind - as this one - fair, after all, is fair.	2000-11-18
US	50148225	R18L2S45683Y8A	1573221244	953844455	Sex and Power	Books	5	13	19	N	N	Fascinating and frightening...	In Sex &amp; Power, Susan Estrich explores the status of women in the workforce today, 'after' the feminist revolution, 'after' the playing field has been changed by all the hard-fought, hard-won gains women have achieved.  And what she finds is that not much is different from what it was before.  Yes, there are now a total of three women heading Fortune 500 companies; that's sure a gigantic leap from 20 years ago, when there were two.  Estrich is hardly breaking new ground in revealing how women are still struggling for equal pay, promotions and fairness, among many, many other things, but her questions about and insights into these circumstances are fascinating, perceptive, sharp and brutally honest.<br />There are, according to Estrich, many reasons for the current state of affairs - complicated, multi-layered, systemic, social, surprising, frustrating, infuriating, understandable...  Estrich's full grasp of the extent of the problems and her contact with women from all levels and walks of life enables her to view the probable causes from a variety of perspectives and to present a compelling argument in favor of her theories.  I think that providing too much information about them would undermine the efficacy and interest of the book - no spoilers here - but she does provide support, both from her personal experiences and those of others, that explains many of the issues she addresses.<br />I highly recommend this book for anyone at all concerned with the status of women at the end of the 20th century, anyone who wants to see if 'we've come a long way, baby.'  And it's refreshing that Estrich spares no one - including women - as she attempts to find the causes at the root of the apparent stagnation in women's progress.  There is a certain amount of repetition for such a short book, and at times the chapters seem to blend into each other, but this does not, in any way, detract from the power of this important book.  However frightening it is to learn about these things, it is crucial that women - and men - shed any sense of complacency if we are ever to achieve true equality.  This book certainly doesn't hold all the answers or questions or even get much below the tip of the iceberg.  But it is engrossing and, although it's enraging at the same time, Sex &amp; Power is not a book to be missed.	2000-10-25
US	50148225	R25DD1U55M3RH8	0330340395	256403279	CAUSE CELEB	Books	4	42	45	N	N	An interesting, engrossing, pretty unique read	Having enjoyed the Bridget Jones books like so many others, I was curious  to see what else Helen Fielding had written, and came across Cause Celeb.   I didn't have any specific expectations, although I suppose I was hoping  for more of Fielding's wit and keen observations.  I was very pleasantly  suprised by this book, and came away from it quite impressed by Fielding's  capabilities as an author.<br />This time, the heroine is Rosie Richardson, a  London woman who has somehow fallen into a career that she doesn't quite  seem to like or understand, has a penchant for the wrong type of man, and  ditches it all to go do relief work in famine stricken Africa (the last bit  was definitely not what I had expected!).  As the 'wrong' man is somewhat  of a celebrity, the readers get a peek into the exclusive world of the  famous, with it's etiquette, rules and self-importance.  The contrast  between this world and that in Africa is, of course, enormous, but Fielding  does not get overtly moralistic and simply presents the two universes as  they co-exist and occasionally intermingle.<br />The characters are wonderful,  from preening celebrities to other relief workers to the Africans.  Rosie's  encounters with all of them are funny, interesting and well-fleshed out.   And Fielding has great fun with the concept of celebrity and it's  ridiculousness, with using the famous to raise money for causes and whom it  helps more - the celebrities orthe needy?  The descriptions of the horrors  of famine and starvation are presented speak for themselves.  I got so  engrossed in the book that I found myself having to put it down at times,  too stressed the relief wouldn't arrive in time for those who needed  it!<br />My one minor complaint about the book - which did not prevent me from  enjoying it tremendously - is that there was so much going on that I didn't  really feel I knew Rosie all that well.  I appreciated her wit, her  humanity, her togetherness and so on, but I never got aclear picture of  her - it was kind of blurry amidst so many other characters and such a huge  background.  But this is a small issue, and I problably noticed it only  because the Bridget books were so much about Bridget that we saw everything  through her eyes.  Although Rosie narrates the book, it isn't quite as much  her story.<br />Still, I highly recommend Cause Celeb to anyone who enjoyed  the Bridget books or who would like to read an engrossing book that tells  an interesting, not overdone, story.	2000-09-08
US	50148225	RTELCC9TSEHEO	0670892084	884489587	Welcome to My Planet	Books	5	17	18	N	N	A delightfully engrossing book	It took me less than a day to read Welcome to My Planet as I simply  couldn't put it down.  The main reason the book is so enjoyable is that the  narrator/central character is wonderful.  Shannon Olson (the character, not  the author, which caused me some momentary confusion about the blurry line  between fiction/non-fiction) tells the story of her life, her relationship  with her family, her mother and men, her experiences in therapy (boy does  she have a good counselor) and graduate school, with humor and insight.  As  a reader, I felt as though I was peeking into a real life because the  details and writing is so engaging.<br />Aside from Shannon, the other  characters are incredibly well-developed, particularly that of her mother,  Flo, with whom Shannon has a very intense connection.  Despite the fact  that all the information provided comes through Shannon's narration, you  still get clear picture of the other characters, who in the end seem just  as real as Shannon.<br />This is not a book with lots of action or an  intricate plot or any surprise twists or ending.  It is simply about one  character's life and experiences and her interaction with the people around  her.  But it is utterly delightful, stocked with characters so real and  wonderful that I sometimes felt as though I was reading about someone's  life.  However difficult a time I'm having conveying what I liked so much  about this book, what it boils down to is that it's great and everyone  should read it.  Perhaps I should have found a more coherent way to say  that!	2000-09-05
US	50148225	R1QZ42FD207KFE	0060928336	859404350	Divine Secrets of the Ya-Ya Sisterhood: A Novel	Books	4	2	4	N	N	Enjoyable and well-written, but is it a great book?	Given all the hype surrounding the Divine Secrets, I must say that I  expected a lot from it, despite my reluctance to join the fray (someone  once told me it was 'not my kind of book,' which, having read it, makes  absolutely no sense to me).  What I did find was a wonderfully written  book, with great characters and stories and descriptions and so on.  What I  did not find was the great, hysterically funny tear-jerker I had heard  about.<br />Yes, the Divine Secrets is both sad and amusing, but I didn't find  it to be either to any extreme.  And I think the reason for this is that,  at some point, the characters and story began to seem less organic and more  contrived.  The early freedoms of the Ya-Ya's, described so beautifully and  exactly, gave way to what felt a little more forced, a little less free  flowing.  Which is perhaps the reason why I was not as touched by the book  as many have been.<br />On the other hand, and this is a big hand!, the Divine  Secrets is a really unique book, providing a glimpse into an enduring  friendship between unique women in a unique place at a unique time.   Somehow - and this reveals Wells' truly great story-telling ability - the  Ya Yas don't all blend together in one blur and remain individual  characters despite all the similarities between them and their adult lives.   And the descriptions of the hot Louisiana summer!  And the bayou, and  Atlanta and on and on and on.<br />I found this to be a thoroughly enjoyable,  entertaining book, one that I recommend highly and enthusiastically to  anyone interested in a peek into a very unique life.  I think if I had  expected less than I would have been more fully satisified, which just may  be something to keep in mind when starting this delightful book.	2000-08-11
US	50148225	R3PQB2ONQ5A077	0140274340	225815087	Mad House: Growing Up in the Shadow of Mentally Ill Siblings	Books	5	13	14	N	N	Helpful to anyone with ill siblings...	I did not grow up with schizophrenic siblings, although there is a history of the disease in my adopted family.  What I did experience was two sisters with very disturbing behavior, and I found Mad House to be a great help in  describing a lot what went on in my particular house and family.  <br />Clea  Simon does a terrific job portraying the stress and chaos mentally ill  siblings can cause and the far-reaching effects this can have on well  family members.  In her case, she had a brother and sister with  schizophrenia, and her sympathetic yet realistic depiction of life under  such circumstances is fascinating, informative and clearly thoroughly  researched.  Her knowledge of the topic enables her to speak intelligently  and cogently about very disturbing emotions, such as the overwhelming fear  that she, too, would contract this dreaded disease.<br />Part of what is best  about this book is that Simon speaks to a wide range of people who have  also grown up or dealt with schizophrenic siblings, and the candid,  personal and touching perspectives they provide complements Simon's own  experience.  It is truly fascinating how many of the 'healthy' siblings  have found their way into the mental health profession, enabling them to  'help' their sick brothers and sisters in a variety of ways, however  indirectly.<br />I highly recommend this book for anyone interested in family  dynamics, mental illness or for anyone who grew up with someone who  exhibited anti-social, destructive behavior.  The wide array of response to  such situations are well-documented and described, and it is quite a relief  to find one's own experiences echoed in those of others.  But there's a  great deal here worthwhile for those simply interested in the topic, and in  the heart-wrenching effects mental illness can have on those who care about  and for those stricken with the disease.	2000-07-25
US	50148225	R3MIA62OLUMOLQ	0684865998	588602050	DEADLY PERSUASION: Why Women And Girls Must Fight The Addictive Power Of Advertising	Books	5	29	29	N	N	Boy, do I feel stupid...	Deadly Persuasion is one powerful book, and I certainly will never look at advertisements the same way again.  This is a very well-thought out, well-supported account of how advertisers sell products by appealing to the  socially-consctructed insecurities of girls and women, as well as the  habits and patterns of addicts.  She also clearly expresses her hypothesis  that while she doesn't think that ads turn people into addicts or  completely shape society, they do have an effect on how we see the world  and on how addicts can maintain a state of denial.<br />One of the best  aspects of the book is her use of real ads that illustrate without question  the points that she makes.  And looking at many of those that I've seen  hundreds of times, I felt quite dumb for not really picking up the subtext  or looking critically enough at them.  The blatant manipulation in many of  them is enough to turn me off any number of products for life.<br />Although I  unhesitatingly give this book the highest rating, I must admit that in her  conviction Kilbourne is sometimes repetitive, sometimes taking a point ever  so slightly too far.  But all in all, I find it a quite fair indictment of  the advertising industry and its influence on consumers.  As a former  addict herself, Kilbourne is qualified to judge some aspects of advertising  in a unique way, and her most frightening insight is that alcohol and  tobacco advertisers understand addiction too, and use this knowledge to  create and keep consumers from a very young age (their consumers have a  nasty habit of dying off and they need to continuously create new buyers -  internal communications from tobacco companies shows this to be a conscious  act).<br />For anyone interested in a look into our current social climate,  and the ways in which our thought processes and even beliefs can be  influenced by external forces, this is a fascinating read.  My eyes were  opened in unexpected ways, and I learned a great deal from the book.I  have a fantasy - perhaps a result of advertisements I've seen - that  everyone will read it and start battling the messages we're sent... but  that's just a dream.	2000-06-29
US	50148225	R3U05UJ6JXMIHN	0312205406	963436946	Hot Six	Books	5	2	2	N	N	The long wait is over!	Like almost anyone who has read any of the other Stephanie Plum books, I was agonizing over the arrival of this one - luckily, I found her late, and read the first five not to long ago, but, boy, does six months seem long  with a cliffhanger like that in High Five...  And Janet Evanovich does not  disappoint, producing a book as funny, engaging, fun, surprising, enjoyable  and likable as the first five.<br />The book picks up exactly where the last  one left off, and goes from there into another of Stephanie's chases as the  'Bounty Hunter from Hell.'  As always, she picks up some 'friends' along  the way, and this time her new friend contributes much to the story -  somehow, Janet makes this character seem well-rounded, yet all we get is a  little bit of information... how does she do this!  However trite and  formulaic this may sound, it's really not - somehow, it remains fresh, new  and exciting.  And this comes from someone who has wedged in her Evanovich  books between George Eliot and Faulkner...<br />Stephanie, Morelli and Ranger  - for those who know the series - are as wonderful as ever, as are all the  other and new players.  Janet lets characters change without losing what  made them so appealing in the first place.<br />For anyone who has read any of  Janet's book, this will be quite a fun romp, but I think having read High  Five made it much more interesting since it starts at the EXACT point that  the previous left off.  Anyone picking up a Janet Evanovich mystery for the  first time will, I think, enjoy this one as well - and perhaps be inspired  to go backwards in the series.  But above all, just read this book!  Hey, I  went from being a huge skeptic when someone lent me the series to a devoted  fan in about ten pages of the first book. It can happen to anyone...	2000-06-27
US	50148225	R38ZVVO5P6W3OP	0878332448	200384115	Celebrity Feuds!: The Cattiest Rows, Spats, and Tiffs Ever Recorded	Books	5	24	24	N	N	A whole lotta fun...	I felt kind of guilty ordering this book - like I was revealing some immoral interest in gossip.  But, wow, was I glad when it arrived!  This is a well-written account of some infamous and lesser known Hollywood feuds,  divided into chapters focusing on a specific 'tiff' that stand alone (and  also include shorter summaries of other fights - typically related to the  major story - at the end of each one, which can be read on their own as  well).  And it is so much fun!  Sure, it's voyeuristic to hear the inside  dirt on private relationships, however publicly the individuals lived, yet  there's a lot of valuable, interesting information and insights into the  celebrities discussed, which makes it particularly fascinating and  revealing.  It is abundantly clear that the author has done quite a bit of  research and is thoroughly acquainted with the celebrities and feuds  contained within the book.  I highly recommend Celebrity Feuds to any fan  of movies, television and/or celebrities, or anyone who just likes to hear  some dirt once in a while.  It's great on car trips - I recently read  chapters aloud as we traveled, and we found it an enjoyable, interesting  and hilarious way to pass the time.	2000-06-17
US	50148225	R3NPQP6R05SJLF	0684839563	901896347	Discover What You're Best At	Books	3	139	143	N	N	Good tests, but what do they really measure?	Having arrived at a point in my life where I absolutely must find a fulfilling career track - and soon - I got this book to start me on my way.  I worked hard on the tests, and I was eager to see what my results would  be, although I was skeptical that I would find a direct hit, my highest  scores being Clerical (I'm a virgo and neurotically neat and organized) and  Numerical (a HUGE surprise there, having been much more of an arts rather  than math and science person).  What I didn't expect was that however I  arranged my scores, I came up NOTHING at all I could vaguely picture myself  doing (histologist?  had to look that up.  geriatric nurse?  food and drug  inspector?  acoustics physicist?  had to look that one up, too).  That's  when I began to think about what the tests had actually measured.<br />Many of  my strenghts - in fact, my greatest ones - were not covered in any of the  tests.  And looking back, I wasn't sure what 'social' and 'business' were  meant to assess.  Sure, I know the alphabet and can file well, and I can  apparently multiply and divide (even fractions), but that does not make me  a good candidate for any form of science - I know that for certain.  What  didn't the tests measure?  Writing skills, people skills, the ability to  multi-task and work well under pressure, computer literacy, creativity, web  site or brochure design, quick problem solving, event planning... even the  few questions that addressed some these issues were not comprehensive  enough to provide any real sense of a person's capabilities in these  areas.<br />So why give it three stars?  The idea is a good one, and the tests  are interesting to take.  It's also well written and clearly explains the  process.  It even goes so far to explain what the individual jobs it  recommends are (and suggests that whatever your scores are, a career  counselor might be a good idea) and what level of education is needed for  them.  And I'm encouraged by many of the reviews here, which seem to  indicate that the book has been a tremendous help to some people.  I think  it's important, however, to note its shortcomings and the ways in which it  might not be helpful.  I suppose that I was a little too optimistic about  finding a quick-fix to a long, complicated problem.  But for those who  approach this bok knowing it may not provide all the answers, I think that  there are many solutions in it, or at the very least an indication of where  to go next.	2000-06-17
US	50148225	R29YPBKTFCXGTI	0684863588	43535728	Stick Figure: A Diary of My Former Self	Books	5	5	6	N	N	A view of anorexia through eleven-year old eyes	Before reading Stick Figure, I didn't kow much about it - I wasn't sure whether this was an actual journal, whether the entries were recreated in order to tell the story or whether it was even a fictionalized account of a  real event.  Having approached it with some skepticism, therefore, I was  tremendously impressed by this view into the thought patterns of an  eleven-year old dieter who insists - despite the fact that she weighs less  than 60 lbs - that she's fat.  And if Gottlieb embellished, edited or  fabricated any sections of the diary, I really don't think it detracts from  the gripping and important story.<br />A precocious, intelligent girl offered  the chance to skip ahead grades - which she does not, preferring instead to  establish a social life and friendshiips - the reader gets a clear sense of  what affects Lori's thinking about her weight:  constant peer pressure, her  own mother's eating habits, magazines, diet books and an almost oppressive,  surrounding diet culture and so forth.  The promise then - as now - was  that being thin would make all of your problems go away and you would then  become popular and beloved.  Already feeling ostracized by being 'unique' -  something Lori interprets as pejorative - makes her an ideal candidate for  distorted body perception and eating disorders.<br />Despite the fact that  this is told by a girl of eleven, there was much in this book that  resonates not only in our current times (vs. 1978) but also in my own life.   Lori simply cannot see herself through any eyes other than her own - and  her self-image is firmly embedded on her psyche even though it has little  grounding in reality.  I think many people can relate to that type of  disconnect, whatever aspect of one's life it may relate to.<br />Some readers  here have expressed concern that Lori falls too quickly in and out of  anorexia for her story to be believable and that her claim she 'forgot'  about these diaries undermines her legitimacy, but I felt quite differently  about this book.  I found it to be completely understandable that Lori  would begin recovery as suddenly as she fell into dieting and that she  would, just as suddenly, be able to see herself as others did.  I also  thought her critiques of her family and Beverly Hils environment to be very  insightful and helpful in rounding out her story.<br />I highly recommend this  book as an interesting, disturbing protrayal of anorexia, but it is also a  story of an individual feeling like a 'stranger in a strange land,' lonely  within and without her family and the damage - some of it irreparable -  that can be done by such experiences.	2000-06-13
US	50148225	R3Q4RMPMRVDL4Q	0843174897	264869444	Wild Words from Wild Women: 2000 Desk Calendar	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A lot of fun, and much, much more...	Aside from the jealousy inspired by the wit, wisdom and perspicacity of some of the women quoted in this book, Wild Words is great fun.  Divided by subject, the book provides the most quotable bon mots from a wide range of  women.  Some of the quotes I recognized, although I hadn't known who had  said them, while I found wonderful new statements by women I'd already  respected and admired.  Stephens brings in old familiar sayings and  incorporates ones not as well known.  I read through them all in one  sitting, and I have returned many a time to pull one out for a friend.   This is a fun, edifying and addictive read, one that I highly recommend to  fans of quotable quotes.	2000-06-03
US	50148225	RBLJWIBOZIVQI	1888363940	698013469	Slut!: Growing Up Female with a Bad Reputation	Books	3	60	68	N	N	A topic that needs exploration but in a more objective manne	I enjoyed reading Slut when a preview copy found its way into the office where I worked at the time.  The personal stories were very touching and I feel that this is a topic - the labeling of women or girls who do not fit  within traditional roles - definitely needs more exploration.  But my main  problem with the book was that the author, while admitting that the sample  from which she worked was far from random, still extrapolates from it,  making claims such as girls who were designated sluts seem to become more  successful or driven or whatever.  What about those she interviewed who  didn't fit that mold?  It left me wondering if she chose the stories that  she did because they fit within her hypothesis.  I was disappointed that,  despite her own claim of subjectivity, she made conclusions that she  extended to a larger group.<br />On the flip side, it's an interesting book to  read, to learn of the personal experiences of girls who've been tormented  by the label and how they have overcome it or moved on.  If the author  could have refrained from her generalizations, I think the stories would  have been powerful enough to stand on their own.	2000-05-28
US	50148225	RYPXEVIG1BV9E	0691028958	642776258	Why Sex Matters: A Darwinian Look at Human Behavior	Books	4	11	12	N	N	Great information but slightly inaccessible	I've been reading a lot about evolutionary psychology and theory lately, and many of the books I've read cite Bobbi Low as an important resource.  And she does indeed explore some important differences between males and  females and how these 'play out' in real life.  The concepts of resource  gathering vs. nurturing vs. reproductive potential are vital to an  understanding of the differences - and similarities - between the sexes.   She uses graphs and photographs to illustrate some of her points, which is  helpful indeed.<br />My one criticism - and it's more of a comment, really -  is that I found this book less accessible than the others I've read on the  subject.  Had I not previously read at least six books on this topic, I  might have had a hard time both getting 'into' the book and understanding  some of what she talks about, despite the lengths she goes to explain it.   She writes in a very straight-forward, scientific voice, which, while  clear, is at times off-putting.<br />All in all, however, this is a  fascinating book and contributes a great deal to the ongoing discussion of  how evolution has affected sex differences and how these differences are  relevant in modern society.  She also explores how modern society is  changing the relevance of some of these evolutionary strategies.  I would  definitely recommend this book highly, with the caveat that it is probably  best for those with some familiarity of the subject.	2000-05-27
US	50148225	R3DD2MUDNHRQV6	0060192119	316982155	As Nature Made Him: The Boy Who Was Raised as A Girl	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Excellent yet heartwrenching	This book is incredibly disturbing, well-written, engrossing, upsetting, enraging, inspiring, frustrating, fascinating... the strength of its effect on me illustrates what a good job the author did conveying the details of  David's horrific experience.<br />My one criticism - and it does not detract  from my extremely high opinion of the book or the fact that I would  recommend it to just about anyone - is the portrayal of Dr. John Money.  Seen through the lens and eyes of this situation and this family, obviously  Dr. Money must appear monstrous and uncaring, yet I find it hard to believe  that such a well-respected, renowned individual would have become so  without at least some valuable contribution to the field or having helped  any individuals with gender identity issues.  I hardly expected to find  praise for Dr. Money in relation to this case - or any of those mentioned -  yet I felt there must be at least another side to him or his work than that  presented in this book.  While not crucial to the telling of David's story,  it would, I think, have helped me understand the devotion of so many to Dr.  Money's authority and the reticence of others to challenge it.	2000-05-17
US	50148225	R20TH2V3Y5NDH3	0140263489	532943819	Sex on the Brain: The Biological Differences Between Men and Women	Books	4	12	15	N	N	Interesting but not totally convincing...	A lot of fascinating theories are explored in this book, and there is a great deal about biological gender differences that can be learned from it.  Yet however interesting it may be, the fact remains that it is written by  a journalist rather than a scientist, one who is well-versed in the  scientific data and who can easily convey it, but not someone who has  carried out any of the research.  <br />I somehow got the sense that,  throughout the book, I was reading some personal opinions of the author's  and not simply an objective discussion of gender differences.  I do not  think that this prevents the book from being worthwhile or educational, but  it did leave me feeling a little unsatisfied and skeptical about some of  the conclusions that were drawn.	2000-05-17
US	50148225	R2UOM1XDPS2C6D	038547718X	131804215	Gender Shock	Books	5	2	2	N	N	As fascinating as it is disturbing...	When glancing over one of the reviews which stated 'everyone should read this book,' I couldn't help but second that advice.  This book is one of the most disturbing I have read about gender in that it outlines the extent  to which some psychologists, psychiatrists, parents and others go to have  children 'conform' with societal norms relating to boys' and girls'  behavior.<br />I couldn't help but wonder what these doctors and parents  thought was at stake when a son didn't enjoy 'rough and tumble play' or a  daughter did too much.  Obviously, fears of homosexuality were paramount,  yet some of the treatments were so painful - emotionally and otherwise - to  both parents and child that it was rather unsettling to see people go to  such lengths to have children act as they're 'supposed' to.  And I cannot  help but surmise that household contributions on the part of men might be  more significant were they brought up playing house or with dolls or any of  the other activities that provide early training for girls.  Gender  equality, however, was clearly not what these parents or doctors were  seeking.<br />The overview of some specific cases clearly illustrates the  points that the author tries to make.  It's well written and accessible yet  addresses some very complicated issues about how we view gender and those  who diverge from established standards.  It's a must-read for anyone  concerned with gender roles, gender equality and the lengths society will  go to to make sure that roles remain defined and immutable.	2000-05-01
US	50148225	R2ELL5MVQE3XJZ	0312203039	442694342	High Five (Stephanie Plum, No. 5) (Stephanie Plum Novels)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Wow, what a book!	Mystery novels were not my cup of tea when a friend supplied me with a bunch of Janet Evanovich books as I recuperated from a broken hip (at 30, such an injury was quite debilitating and left me overwrought with cabin fever).  What I found in this series utterly - and pleasantly - surprised  me:  smart, funny stories with characters so real I felt I could run into  any one of them on a Trenton street.<br />High Five was one of the best, I  think.  By this time, the characters are so well-developed and real that  their interactions are as engrossing as the plot itself.  Stephanie Plum,  the heroine, is as flawed as she is funny, and while some of her escapades  and escapes verge on being too slick, this does not detract from the fun of  reading High Five.<br />I know, from what I've read, that some find these  books as much romance novels as anything else.  I'm not a fan of that genre  myself, nor did I feel that these books fall into that character despite an  off-and-on relationship that spans the series.  That complicated and  interesting aspect merely, for me, added to the fun and funny stories  without taking over the tone of the books.<br />Now that these books are  firmly entrenched on my bookshelf between George Eliot and Faulkner, I  highly recommend all of the Stephanie Plum books to any reader looking for  something new and different, some truly likable and engaging characters or  a book that is just plain fun and hilarious while still remaining clever  and suspenseful.	2000-04-28
US	50148225	R1DJTB2FPPOYN4	0385477023	245377091	What's Love Got to Do with It?: The Evolution of Human Mating	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Interesting, thoughtful and informative	I found that this book balances scientific data, psychological research, the author's personal experiences and area of expertise, and cultural influences on human sexuality very well.  The end result is a thoughtful discussion of human sexuality - why we have strong sexual urges, how  millions of years of evolution still affect us today, some of the qualities  people look for in mates, and so forth.<br />While there is a certain level of  repetition in the book - which the author, I believe, does in order to  stress her main points - I did not find it redundant or dull; instead, I  found myself coming away from the book with a clear sense of her position,  which is not always the case with books exploring scientific subjects and  incorporating information from different disciplines.  The concrete  examples with which she illustrates her points are well chosen, and I also  appreciated her honesty about her own limitations in describing male  sexuality.<br />I truly enjoyed this book and learned a great deal from it,  from the physiological changes that occur during sexual arousal to the  complex interactions between culture and biology, the obsession with  finding a 'cause' of male homosexuality and the possibility that AIDS may,  in some manner, affect human evolution.  I think that those looking for an  accessible, thoughtful, broad and informative overview of human sexuality  will find this particular book a fascinating and educating read, one I  recommend highly.	2000-04-25
US	50148225	R3IREDTKVLOLG3	0028628268	365661393	Understanding Your Child's Temperament	Books	5	25	25	N	N	Fascinating insight into children's behavior	Even though I am only an aunt to two children - and not a parent - I found that this book provides valuable information for anyone dealing with children.  Dr. Carey dispells the myth that babies and children are 'blank slates' that can be regulated, scheduled and expected to behave in certain  ways.  One of the most heartening aspects of the book is that Dr. Carey  shows both the &quot;positive&quot; and &quot;negative&quot; aspects of  each type of termperament he identifies, avoiding completely the  categorizing of any sort of personality as 'problematic.'<br />His argument  against the use of Ritalin is very persuasive, as so many of the children  prescribed the drug are actually exhibiting behaviors that are within the  range of &quot;normal.&quot;  Parents having &quot;trouble&quot; dealing  with their child's behavior would learn a great deal from this book,  particularly how modifying their own actions can influence an individual  child's &quot;fit&quot; with his or her environment. <br />The writing is  quite accessible, with concrete examples to illustrate the key points and  strategies that can be applied when dealing with children.  I've  recommended this book to several of my friends and colleagues with  children, and they have all found it thoroughly useful and informative.   And I, merely as a party interested in behavior and children, found it an  accessible and fascinating book that taught me a great deal about how to  deal with my own niece and nephew!	2000-04-18
US	50148225	R3PIBMW87CGH0B	055337527X	319479123	The Prehistory of Sex: Four Million Years of Human Sexual Culture	Books	3	6	11	N	N	An ultimately unsatisfying read	The 'prehistory' of sex is certainly a compelling subject, and one I was eager to learn more about, having just read a fascinating book on the same subject.  But I was disappointed in this book both because it did not  describe clearly enough the various stages in human evolution and because I  felt that I actually learned little about the 'prehistory' of sex.  I did,  however, find a great deal of interesting information in the book, but so  much of it was written from detached perspective that it lacked the  immediacy and relevancy necessary for modern readers to connect with the  topic.  After reading it, I found myself wondering what the title actually  meant, as the book theorizes about sexual practices and gender divisions  throughout human evolution; isn't it more of a history, then, than a  prehistory?  And what would 'prehistory' mean?  I finished the book without  really understanding the author's primary goal or message.	2000-04-15
US	50148225	R1I3YWMNCJVYFU	0449908976	510564699	Anatomy of Love: A Natural History of Mating, Marriage, and Why We Stray	Books	5	73	74	N	N	A fascinating, accessible book	I found this book completely engrossing.  Her detailed explanations of human evolution and her logical, clearly thought out and well-supported hypothesis about early sexual behavior allowed me, as a reader, to develop  a rather comprehensive picture of patterns in human sexuality.  More than  any other book I've read on the subject, this one seems to balance the  'biology is destiny' concept with the acknowledged influence of cultural  factors.  I highly recommend this book for anyone even remotely interested  in evolution, human sexuality or a perspective on modern relationships.	2000-04-10
