US	50147354	RQ7V457EKC04X	1593080883	543411005	The Count of Monte Cristo (Barnes & Noble Classics)	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Absolutely Riveting Tale!	This is honestly one of the greatest novels I have ever read. I absolutely loved this book. I could not put it down! This is a must read for anyone.When I first started into this novel, I had in my memory the 'movie' that was made for the big screen. So of course, I expected the book to be very similar to it. Well, I was very wrong! Other than Edmond Dantes being betrayed by his 'friends' and finding the treasure, this book takes on a different route.<br />Believe me, the book is much more superb. The way the Count exacts his revenge is astonishing. I cannot fathom how Dumas came up with such a scheme. At times, one cringes for the those who wronged the Count.<br />This book made me laugh and cry. There are many poignant moments throughout the book that make you feel good. Anyone who says that Dumas is not up there with the 'classic' writers, does not know what they are talking about. This book is rich in dialogue, mystery, suspense and storyline. All in all, this is an amazing classic, and I recommend it to anyone wanting a good read.	2004-07-08
US	50147354	R1PA22AXFFH92G	0140449264	543411005	The Count of Monte Cristo (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Absolutely Riveting Tale!	This is honestly one of the greatest novels I have ever read. I absolutely loved this book. I could not put it down! This is a must read for anyone.When I first started into this novel, I had in my memory the 'movie' that was made for the big screen. So of course, I expected the book to be very similar to it. Well, I was very wrong! Other than Edmond Dantes being betrayed by his 'friends' and finding the treasure, this book takes on a different route.<br />Believe me, the book is much more superb. The way the Count exacts his revenge is astonishing. I cannot fathom how Dumas came up with such a scheme. At times, one cringes for the those who wronged the Count.<br />This book made me laugh and cry. There are many poignant moments throughout the book that make you feel good. Anyone who says that Dumas is not up there with the 'classic' writers, does not know what they are talking about. This book is rich in dialogue, mystery, suspense and storyline. All in all, this is an amazing classic, and I recommend it to anyone wanting a good read.	2004-07-08
US	50147354	R35BWJKHYMKNNK	0743487559	543411005	The Count of Monte Cristo (Enriched Classics)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	A True Classic!	This is honestly one of the greatest novels I have ever read. I absolutely loved this book. I could not put it down! This is a must read for anyone.When I first started into this novel, I had in my memory the 'movie' that was made for the big screen. So of course, I expected the book to be very similar to it. Well, I was very wrong! Other than Edmond Dantes being betrayed by his 'friends' and finding the treasure, this book takes on a different route.<br />Believe me, the book is much more superb. The way the Count exacts his revenge is astonishing. I cannot fathom how Dumas came up with such a scheme. At times, one cringes for the those who wronged the Count.<br />This book made me laugh and cry. There are many poignant moments throughout the book that make you feel good. Anyone who says that Dumas is not up there with the 'classic' writers, does not know what they are talking about. This book is rich in dialogue, mystery, suspense and storyline. All in all, this is an amazing classic, and I recommend it to anyone wanting a good read.	2004-07-08
US	50147354	R3FGCQRXDXX5Y1	014143984X	821153252	Dracula (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Absolutely Riveting Tale!	I must say that I was pleasantly surprised by this book. I, of course was expecting to read something similar to the movie 'Dracula' that I had seen. While there are some similarities, the book is immensely better. I guess that it would be hard to convey all the emotions of an individuals character 'on screen'.<br />This extremely well written tale is written in a series of diaries. Everything that we read is someones diary, relating all of the events that are unfolding. I found myself unable to read this novel at night, as I was 'fearful'. I do not think that a novel or movie has to be 'gory' to convey a message of 'horror', it can be done with suggestive words and the type of enviroment that a character is in.<br />Unlike the movie, we are not made to feel for Dracula. We see him for the bloodsucking fiend that he is. There is no love or romance between him and the dedicated Mina. The 'slayer' Van Helsing is as witty as ever as are all the rest of the important characters. This tale unfolds quite nicely and is very enjoyable.<br />If you are looking for an interesting and well written read, then I recommend this riveting tale.	2004-07-08
US	50147354	R36BN4G5IQENJS	0553213105	503057596	Pride and Prejudice (Bantam Classics)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	A True Classic!	I was truly surprised by this tale. I was drawn from the very first page by Mrs. Bennets gossip. What was equally delightful was the sarcastic manner in which Mr. Bennet responded to her chatter, and she was none the wiser. And so begins a tale of wit that engages the minds.<br />From the moment Darcy is mentioned, with his ill manners, we know that he will be key to the story and surely he is. The engaging repetoire between Elizabeth and Darcy is what makes the novel such an interesting read. From their haughty demeanor to falling in love, this tale is rich with engaging conversations.<br />This novel gives an enlightening aspect to the 'higher' society of British life. There is a wicked vein that runs throughout the book, for the outlook on such a life seems quite vain if not ridiculous. Miss Austen does an excellent job of conveying that life to us, with enough wit and sarcasm.<br />I enjoyed this book immensely and would recommend it to anyone wanting a witty read.	2004-07-08
US	50147354	R30PFO1XN5P2S6	8484035832	891346266	Dracula (Clasicos seleccion series)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A True Classic!	I must say that I was pleasantly surprised by this book. I, of course was expecting to read something similar to the movie 'Dracula' that I had seen. While there are some similarities, the book is immensely better. I guess that it would be hard to convey all the emotions of an individuals character 'on screen'.<br />This extremely well written tale is written in a series of diaries. Everything that we read is someones diary, relating all of the events that are unfolding. I found myself unable to read this novel at night, as I was 'fearful'. I do not think that a novel or movie has to be 'gory' to convey a message of 'horror', it can be done with suggestive words and the type of enviroment that a character is in.<br />Unlike the movie, we are not made to feel for Dracula. We see him for the bloodsucking fiend that he is. There is no love or romance between him and the dedicated Mina. The 'slayer' Van Helsing is as witty as ever as are all the rest of the important characters. This tale unfolds quite nicely and is very enjoyable.<br />If you are looking for an interesting and well written read, then I recommend this riveting tale.	2004-07-08
US	50147354	RDO785GVZ2MUS	0679601996	543411005	The Count of Monte Cristo (Modern Library)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A Must Read!	This is honestly one of the greatest novels I have ever read. I absolutely loved this book. I could not put it down! This is a must read for anyone.When I first started into this novel, I had in my memory the 'movie' that was made for the big screen. So of course, I expected the book to be very similar to it. Well, I was very wrong! Other than Edmond Dantes being betrayed by his 'friends' and finding the treasure, this book takes on a different route.<br />Believe me, the book is much more superb. The way the Count exacts his revenge is astonishing. I cannot fathom how Dumas came up with such a scheme. At times, one cringes for the those who wronged the Count.<br />This book made me laugh and cry. There are many poignant moments throughout the book that make you feel good. Anyone who says that Dumas is not up there with the 'classic' writers, does not know what they are talking about. This book is rich in dialogue, mystery, suspense and storyline. All in all, this is an amazing classic, and I recommend it to anyone wanting a good read.	2004-07-08
US	50147354	R3AMZ4Y50JJA5U	0679601686	503057596	Pride and Prejudice (Modern Library)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	A worthy Read!	I was truly surprised by this tale. I was drawn from the very first page by Mrs. Bennets gossip. What was equally delightful was the sarcastic manner in which Mr. Bennet responded to her chatter, and she was none the wiser. And so begins a tale of wit that engages the minds.<br />From the moment Darcy is mentioned, with his ill manners, we know that he will be key to the story and surely he is. The engaging repetoire between Elizabeth and Darcy is what makes the novel such an interesting read. From their haughty demeanor to falling in love, this tale is rich with engaging conversations.<br />This novel gives an enlightening aspect to the 'higher' society of British life. There is a wicked vein that runs throughout the book, for the outlook on such a life seems quite vain if not ridiculous. Miss Austen does an excellent job of conveying that life to us, with enough wit and sarcasm.<br />I enjoyed this book immensely and would recommend it to anyone wanting a witty read.	2004-07-08
US	50147354	RADG8DY1A7S1N	0451523377	821153252	Dracula (Signet Classics)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	So this is what a Vampire is!	I must say that I was pleasantly surprised by this book. I, of course was expecting to read something similar to the movie 'Dracula' that I had seen. While there are some similarities, the book is immensely better. I guess that it would be hard to convey all the emotions of an individuals character 'on screen'.<br />This extremely well written tale is written in a series of diaries. Everything that we read is someones diary, relating all of the events that are unfolding. I found myself unable to read this novel at night, as I was 'fearful'. I do not think that a novel or movie has to be 'gory' to convey a message of 'horror', it can be done with suggestive words and the type of enviroment that a character is in.<br />Unlike the movie, we are not made to feel for Dracula. We see him for the bloodsucking fiend that he is. There is no love or romance between him and the dedicated Mina. The 'slayer' Van Helsing is as witty as ever as are all the rest of the important characters. This tale unfolds quite nicely and is very enjoyable.<br />If you are looking for an interesting and well written read, then I recommend this riveting tale.	2004-07-08
US	50147354	R1DWFKVFXK6U9X	0671027573	142020743	Mr. Perfect	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Mr. Perfect, Where are you?!	Oh my, I absolutely loved this book. It was wonderful. I laughed, then I cried, then I laughed some more, then I cried... Yes, this book was amazing.<br />I wish I knew where I could find some big, strong hunky guy with bulging muscles, sense of humour, oozing with sexuality AND intelligence to boot. Is there such a guy?? Probably not, but I can always read this book to find him.<br />Jaine and her three friends get together and make up this \\"list\\" describing what the perfect guy should be. This list is completely thorough and very disturbing to some insecure men. Unfortunately, this list falls into the wrong hands and suddenly ignites a media frenzy over this controversial list. Bad news is, a psycopathic madperson is on the loose and he is not happy. Luckily for Jaine, her gorgeous neighbor Sam, is none other than a police detective.<br />The chemistry between Jaine and Sam is sizzling. This is not just a romantic novel, but it is an intriguing thriller. The ending will shock most people, it certainly did me. I thoroughly enjoyed this novel and recommend it wholeheartedly.	2004-02-09
US	50147354	R32G7OPL3SB9UP	0394716787	675970766	The Complete Tales and Poems of Edgar Allan Poe	Books	5	4	5	N	Y	Amazing Book, Amazing Writer	I must admit, I am a Poe fanatic. I have read this book twice already. I do not know what it is about Poes' stories that just suck you in. I find Poes' mindset to be extremely fascinating. I do not think that anyone would be able to decipher what went about in that mans mentality.<br />Reading Poe is beyond a mere thriller. His stories are not only mysterious with intrigue and drama, they also make you think. You sit and ponder 'why?', why did the character do this or say that. Like in my favorite tale &quot;Black Cat&quot;, you sit and wonder what made the character behave the way he did. Was it caused by drink or was it caused by 'bad luck'? Or with the ever famous &quot;Cask of Amontidallo&quot;, what was the grave insult that Montresor suffered?<br />Such questions will never be directly answered, as all the conclusions will inevitably be suppositions made by people, such as you and I. All in all, reading Poes' stories is mesmerizing in itself, and this book is as complete as it gets. It is a pretty large paperback (not like the mass market) and the font is actually much better than that in the hardback book. This is a worthwhile read at an excellent price.	2004-01-28
US	50147354	R1P6AHRDO4931K	0963206702	182327815	The Holy Quran	Books	5	60	71	N	Y	Great Transalation.	This is the best transalation that I have ever read for the Holy Quran. The transalation is simple and clear, it does not mimic the 'old world' translation of the Holy Bible. What is also very nice, is that this version has both English and Arabic text, so for those who can read both languages, it makes it very convenient.<br />The Holy Quran is a must read, as we are residing in a time where Islam has come under extreme criticism as a religion of hatred and terrorism. That is not true, but unfortunately there are extremists who do nothing but tarnish the image of the relgion that means 'to surrender'. Reading this book and understanding it are key, as there are those who misinterpret and take things out of context.<br />This is not a religion based on hate and or crime, yet to the contrary it talks much about patience. Patience which is key to many things, yet those who tarnish the good name of Islam seem to have none of it.<br />I would suggest reading this book, if not to change your ideas, then at least to enlighten them. As a born muslim, my only communication with hatred and terrorism, I have only seen on 'television'. Never have I encountered it, nor have I ever read about it in the Holy Quran.	2004-01-22
US	50147354	R1LBZGKMDPL1LJ	0515109746	43832879	The Hellion Bride (Sherbrooke, Book 2)	Books	3	10	14	N	N	What to say?	I have mixed feelings about this book. I found it disturbing, not that I believed that the heroine was by any means 'raped', that is verging on the ridiculous, it was merely a painful first experience for her, no force whatsoever. What disturbs me is the fact that Sophie had an insane fear of men and the marital act.<br />In the beginning, Sophie played her seductress role quite convincingly, she was vibrant, retortful, but suddenly after her 'rescue' she becamesa meek mouse type person, with absolutely no personality or 'fire' to speak of.<br />While the story flowed smoothly, and the hero Ryder is quite captivating as the 'knight in shining armor', there wasn't any chemistry between the two characters. Their moods switched off and on like lamp switches. I also would really like to understand why Ms. Coulter finds it always necessary to have her heroines abused and always fearing the opposite sex.<br />The story is good and it is interesting if you like Coulter's work. This is basically classic Coulter.	2004-01-22
US	50147354	RADDD9A7HLGBA	007240535X	797395209	Sociology: The Core	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Great Sociology Book	Most of you who will buy this book, will probably do so because it is required in a SOC101 class. If you have to buy this book, be happy, because this is an excellent book that covers a broad spectrum of Sociology. If you are wanting to enrich your knowledge of Sociology, then look no further. This is an excellent supplement for any other text.<br />This text is very informative in an easy to read and digest manner. The wording is extremely user friendly with interesting facts on sociological issues around the world. The book is filled with moving photographs of the plights of people around our country and the world. All in all, this is an enhanced edition that is made to surround the topics of Sociology in a manner that is comprehendable and fun. You will be happy that you bought it.	2004-01-09
US	50147354	R1JU9UJ46E3FR4	7119005901	787682184	Three Kingdoms (Chinese Classics, 4 Volumes)	Books	5	6	6	N	Y	Extraordinary Epic Novel!	If you have ever played any of KOEI Dynasty Series games, then you are familiar with the Han Dynasty and some of the Chinese History. If you were interested in knowing more than what you did in the video games, then this book is for you.<br />This is an awesome epic novel, sweeping the history of Chinese history. All of the characters that are in the Dynasty Series game are here for our further knowledge. Liu Bei, Guan Yu, Zhang Fei, Lu Bu, Cao Cao, Cao Song, Dio Chan, Sun Ce, Sun Quan, Sun Shiang San..... the list goes on and on.<br />This story written over a thousand years ago, accurately portrays the lives and feelings of these &quot;heroes&quot;. The author is a little swayed by the Shu family, and he seems to favor them, portraying Guan Yu, Liu Bei and Zhang Fei as the most loyal and honorable sworn brothers, with Cao Cao a sort of evil madman. But that is okay, since I never liked Cao Cao in the game anyway.<br />All in all, this is a long and worthwhile read. I would recommend the unabridged version as it is more complete and thorough. You will not be disapointed to see these wonderful characters come to life.	2003-12-23
US	50147354	R1NBNQAHTIKDY3	0385188501	728927408	Chemistry Made Simple	Books	1	23	26	N	N	Waste of Time!	Do not waste your money. This book is horrible. It is severely outdated, it does not even provide the complete Table of Elements. The Metric system they show is not very accurate, nor does it show many applicable conversions. They give you one example per unit. It is a very confusing book, severely lacking in information.<br />I am currently in an advanced chemistry class, and this book has done nothing for me. All of the research in it, is for Junior High level. This is not a refresher for college classes. So far, I have not made use of any of the information provided inside.<br />I do not recommend it, you would be better off purchasing a used textbook with useful information that you will actually use.	2003-09-11
US	50147354	R38VVQ5DZDZZ92	0618035915	937462090	Chemistry	Books	5	16	19	N	N	This is a Chemistry Book.	Now, this is what I call a chemistry book. If you are required to buy it, then you will find out. But if you are wanting to buy a Chemistry book, just to know about Chemistry, then this is an awesome book.<br />You have to have some basic knowledge of Chemistry for this book to be useful, and if you have a teacher who is a good one, then you are going down the right track.<br />What is really great about this book, is the end of each chapter. It provides you with a clear and accurate summary, and then there are many questions that cover everything you have learned thus far. What is also good, is that main points and themes are highlighted, so that one may know what are key and relevent points.<br />I would recommend this book or one like it, even if you are just refreshing. A textbook is a million times better than the \\"series books\\", like \\"For Dummies\\" or \\"Made Simple\\" and so on and so forth. If you think they are to expensive, I am sure you can buy these books from the amazon marketplace sellers for less.<br />All in all, this is a great buy.	2003-09-11
US	50147354	R17NB827T3XP3H	0761527842	178720992	Ogre Battle 64: Person of Lordly Caliber - Prima's Official Strategy Guide	Books	4	7	7	N	Y	Great Guide, Not very complete.	This is actually a very useful guide. The reason why I am giving it only 4 stars, is that it lacks some very important information. Chaos Frame. This guide does not go into any detail about alignment, and that is very key to the outcome of your game.<br />For example, if you need low alignment to obtain certain characters, such as Sirens, Archmages, Lichs etc... you would need to train them to up their level, and have them fight HIGH alignment enemies. Fighting high alignment enemies makes yours go down, and fighting low alignment makes yours go up. Not mentioned in guide.<br />Also, the book does not even mention Chaos Frame. That is how you develop your reputation in the game. Low Frame is when you CAPTURE strongholds vs. LIBERATING them. You cannot monitor your frame throughout the game, in fact you only find that out at the end of them game, but Chaos Frame is KEY to the outcome of the game, and it will effect who decides to join you or not.<br />In one part of the game, if you answer \\"....\\", when Rhade asks you to kill Raskin, you risk the chance of Losing Dio, and you will not get the Zenobians; Aisha, Saradin, Destin, Debonair or Gilbert. Although if you do not have the Zenobians, you would then be able to get Carth and Biske.<br />This Guide does not explain any of this. But don't get me wrong, it is a very useful tool to have. It gives you a clear picture of what my happen in each board, also it has a very complete and accurate section with Maps, that show you exactly where you can pick up various items. The artwork of this guide is absolutely beautiful. I would recomend to go to a gamefaq website to get more detailed and precise information.<br />And one more thing, when you are on the map subscreen, go to Hugo Reports and check out events. Make sure you visit often, for you will find \\"Happy Birthday\\". You can replay this event and for every 10 years that Magnus has aged, you get a good present.	2003-07-19
US	50147354	R2TJQ6OXUPT6LK	0679781587	823326041	Memoirs of a Geisha: A Novel	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Great Work of Fiction	I just finished reading this tale of woe. All I can truly say is that after reading this story of the life of one woman, I have newfound respect for women of the past who were born into the Asian culture.<br /><br />What is it that we think about when we hear the word Geisha? Prostitute? Street Walker? Yes? No? Well, what I thought about Geishas' was not at all what I found to be true. While a Geishas' main role in life is to essentially please and serve her man, that does not automatically entail that she will end up sleeping with him. On the contrary, that could not be farther from the truth.<br /><br />This is the spellbinding tale of Sayuri, a child who was taken from her home, and sold to the highest bidder. This is her sad tale of injustice that happened to a woman, who had the misfortune of being born into poverty. Living day to day with her continuous monotony of school, lessons and self preparation of the life they were \\"destined\\" to lead.<br /><br />I cannot convey the sorrow I felt for Sayuri, Pumpkin, Mameha and the others, at the role they were meant to play. Never an honest feeling or moment. For who in this impoverished country could really care about the needs and wants of a simple little girl. Who was she, but a painted face, exquisitely dressed, to serve and to satisfy Man.<br /><br />This is a tale of FICTION. Reviewers who are bashing the author, obviously do not understand that the story is ficticious. As to whether or not something like this could have happened, is very believable and quite plausible. Japan of the past, is not the Japan, we know now.	2003-02-13
US	50147354	R3RL9WTOP4Y9TT	0679454497	645550608	Blood and Gold (Vampire Chronicles)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	The Best of the Vampire Chronicles!	Wow! I just finished reading this masterpiece by Anne Rice, and I am amazed. The old magic that existed in her old Vampire Chronicles is back, and with a vengeance. This is by far, the best tale in her Vampire series.<br />Marius Romanus, Child of the Millennium, keeper of &quot;Those who must be Kept&quot;. Through thousands of years of his existence, from the birth of Christ, to the modern day as we know it, we travel with him, in and out of time. Marius, lover of his Ancient home Rome, and as always true to his native country Italy no matter what.<br />True, we are revisited with Pandora, his true love, and his Amadeo (Armand) his child fledgling. We see their story from his point of view. We are introduced to new characters, new and unheard of loves, and new plots, that were not known to us in  previous tales. Marius's story of love and woe, obsession and passion, is something that was key to us all. The keeper of Akasha and Enkil, whose life was intertwined with their protection, deserved to have his say, for his story is of the utmost importance.<br />I believe that Anne Rice took her time with this tale. As is with all her tales, it is rich with History, and intricate detail. We are swept up into a world of ancient times, rich with art and lore. Marius has always been a mystery to us all, but here he is revealed, and we gain a better perspective, more so than we ever did in any of her previous stories. Marius the tall and white haired Roman. Quiet and reserved, guardian of &quot;Those who must be Kept&quot;. This tale is so heart-wrenching, and I could not put it down. If you get this book, You will love it! You will dream of Marius, and his companions.	2002-02-14
US	50147354	R14H46Y55E3FM3	0679454489	312807149	Merrick (Vampire Chronicles)	Books	4	8	8	N	N	More like 3 and a half stars.	Hmmmm... Well it's definitely not one of Anne Rice's best, but contrary to the opinion of the previous reviewers, it is not her worst ... Actually, Merrick is a worthwhile read, after you suffer through the first 150 - 200 pages, then beyond that, it is a true gem.<br />Merrick herself is a very interesting character. I wish that Rice had made her the narrator of this tale. Instead she made her worst character... David Talbot, the storyteller in this potentially riveting tale.<br />David Talbot, British fuddy duddy supreme, an old geezer whom Lestat had a passing fascination with, and instead of letting him die, Davids soul is transported into the body of a young studly Latino, and in it Lestat bestows upon him, the Dark Gift (that happens in another book). Merrick is the object of this old/young mans affection. So, not only is it difficult to imagine this seemingly weak pancified man in another body, we must now imagine him as a strong and passionate individual who actually desires a woman.<br />Pushing David Talbot aside (kind of hard to do), the story in itself is quite good. Merrick Mayfair is a powerful seductress, coming from the bloodlines of the Mayfair Witches. She joined into the Talamasca at a young age. David was her mentor of sorts. I understood well how she came into existence. I loved her character, and I truly wished that we could have delved a little more into the life and mindset of this Voodoo enchantress.<br />Louis is as always Louis, and Lestat is, well, you should read the story to find out. Even when you find yourself bored to tears by David's ramblings (you will), don't stop. Go forward, because the end is quite riveting and shocking. Well worth the effort.	2002-02-05
US	50147354	R1BO3VD2Q594LV	0679433015	533056481	Servant of the Bones	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Another Riveting Tale	This is another great masterpiece by my favorite author, Anne Rice. Again, she weaves a world rich with life and death, joy and sorrow.<br /><br />Azriel is the main narrator of this heart wrenching tale. A story that begins in our time line, taking us back through Ancient Babylonian time and ending in modern day New York City. Azriel tells us of his days as a Hebrew mortal, and his time as Servant of the Bones. A genie if you will, but not exactly. A gentle born Hebrew who was forced to make the ultimate sacrifice to save his people. Refusal would have meant that death would surely flow. Azriel would be forsaken and than deceived. Living from one master to the next, Azriel does their bidding until becoming his own master, controller of his own great power.<br />Asleep for centuries, Azriel is awakened to witness a horrific murder. Unbeknownst to him, he would take action that would change the future of mankind. Who is this Servant of the Bones, who was created out of madness, with the purpose to serve evil?<br />Contrary to the opinion of most reviewers, this is an excellent story. This is TYPICAL Anne Rice, but even better. I recommend this book immensely. You will be bewitched.	2002-01-31
US	50147354	RRK6WV0YG92L0	0684853507	85988614	Bag of Bones	Books	5	7	8	N	N	My favorite so far!	And I thought that Stephen King has written nothing as good as The Stand? Well, was I in for a surprise or what? I loved this book. This is one book that I will never donate to the library. (nor any of my other Stephen King novels, for that matter)<br />Mike Noonan, the sole character of this intriqingly terryifing novel, is one of my favorite characters of all times. I just loved his personality and wit. My eyes were either swelling with repressed tears, or I was cracking up with laughter. My heart ached with sadness as Mike retold his saddened story to us.<br />Mike who is a novelist,is living a normal life, when suddenly his world as he sees it is careened to a halt. His beloved wife Johanna passes away, and with her his ability to write. Writers Block. The bane of all writers(believe me I know). He skims with us through four years of his life after his wife dies, then he takes us with him into his return to Sara Laughs.<br />Sara Laughs is the name of a small cottage up the coast of Maine. Mike and Jo bought it as a summer resort. He had not returned in the 4 years since she had gone. Now he is back, and so are many strange things going on around him. He meets Mattie and Kyra two females who will change his life forever.<br />I do not want to give away any plots, but I must say this. You have to read this book. If you think Stephen King was good in his other works, than you definitely need to read about Mike Noonan and his horrifying shenanigans at Sara Laughs. You will be spooked out of your mind, and you will come to love Mike Noonan. For real.	2001-07-14
US	50147354	R3GU38XTI6RYK7	0385199570	825352881	The Stand: The Complete and Uncut Edition	Books	5	8	12	N	N	Long but Exhilarating!	Whew! What a read. Honestly, I think that this is the longest book I have ever read. But, I savored each and every word. A Stephen King fan I was not before, but I definitely am one now!<br />It took me approximately 7 nights to read this huge piece of work, but it certainly was worth the time. I think what I enjoyed most out of Kings book, was his unique way of storytelling, the many characters, which at first, seem to overcrowd your mind, but then become such loved friends. Kings accurate description of ordinary Americans, their conversations, their feelings, their life. Splendid.<br />The Stand begins with Charlie Campion, a simple security guard for the Defense Department Laboratory, whose reckless and undetected escape sets off a cataclysm of events that brings the world as we know it, crumbling down. We are introduced to this &quot;Superflu&quot; very early in the story. The horror of its destruction seems all to real. A virus, similar to the flu, yet different, that once absorbed into the human body, it is constantly changing, never the same, never the chance for the body to adapt and fight it off. Deadly.<br />Mass hysteria everywhere. Then suddenly SILENCE. Few survive. Why? No one knows. The only thing in common all survivors share, is their dreams and nightmares. Dreams of old Mother Abigail, and nightmares of the &quot;Dark Man&quot;. Alliances are formed, Good vs. Evil. The age old battle once again. Who will win, who will survive? Who will be triumphant in the end?<br />This is a great book to sink your teeth into. Don't be awed by its immense size. Time will fly, and then you will be wishing there was more. Plus, this makes for great conversations, with all of the &quot;what ifs&quot;.	2001-07-10
US	50147354	R17EBDHVF7HQW8	0399134204	31287929	The Joy Luck Club	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Pure Enchantment!	Wow, this is an amazing tale. I absolutely could not put it down. I stayed up until I finished it, even though I had to wake up early the next morning. I cannot recall reading such a story as this, I was definitely wooed. This is a simply written bittersweet saga of four Chinese women and their daughters.<br />I was enchanted by these wonderful and courageous women of the East from the very beginning. I could see and hear everything that they told. Their pain was my pain. Their joy, my joy. Amy Tan has a wondrous way of opening your eyes, so that you can see into the souls of these women. Never has the hardships of such seemingly frail women affected me so. I became riveted with anticipation of more to come.<br />I truly loved this tale of love and woe. All I can say, is if you have not read it, do so now. You will not regret it. In fact, I am positive, that you will never forget these enchanting people ever.	2001-07-10
US	50147354	R1ERPW8HA5Q9O8	0679462600	735890563	Cleopatra's Palace : In Search of a Legend	Books	5	15	15	N	N	Absolutely Wonderful!	I loved this book. This is truly great reading. This book was so fascinating, I stayed up all night just to finish it. We are taken beyond mere history, and into the depths of the Roman rulers lives.<br />The author does an excellent job of sweeping you into the vast Roman Empire that had reined supreme for many years. From Alexander the Great, to the his successors of Ptolemys', Cleopatras' and Berenices', we take a brief but intimate look into their lives. The morally corrupt family that they were, reining high for many generations over this strange and exotic land.<br />Interesting as it is, Cleopatra was not actually Egyptian. Although depicted in many ancient drawings as a pharaoh, she was actually of Roman-Greek descent. Her rein to the throne was given to her through succession and birth.<br />Facts do not always play a key role in this book, as information is not always on hand. The author tends to insert information from her own imagination when she sees fit to do so. I had no problem with this, as she makes it clear that those are her own suppositions. This book reads out like a good fiction novel.<br />Towards the end of the book, we travel with the teams who made some of this research possible. There are many beautiful pictures throughout. This makes a great coffee table book. I think this is a great addition to any library, and for anyone to sit down and enjoy!	2001-02-27
US	50147354	R1U4RBMJGAOJ2C	0764551922	842641748	Fitness Walking For Dummies	Books	5	35	35	N	N	Not just for Dummies!	Truly, dummies, need not apply. This book is for anyone interested in fitness in general. This book is filled with so much information, it is mind boggling.<br />I had no idea that buying this book would be such a great move on my part, I have gained so much needed insight on various health topics. From understanding your risk for heart disease, to finding the right pair of shoes, this book has it all.<br />The author Liz Neoporent, is really a Fitness expert. There are 20 chapters, each jam packed with useful information. I have determined my body mass index, as well as measured the strength of my middle and lower body. I have finally been able to buy the right sports bra, that does not make me 'wiggle and jiggle'. I have understood the 4 levels of walking plus their benefits, and found out the importance of strength training, how beneficial it really is. Plus, I have finally been able to find a pair of shoes that do not give me painful blisters (what a miracle).<br />This book is great, what I mentioned above, is just skimming the surface of all the useful information provided. This is NOT just a book about walking. This is a great resource for any fitness enthusiast. I recommend it to anyone wanting to better their bodies and themselves.	2001-02-27
US	50147354	R2XGEUAIZSDNIY	0060168196	243191207	How to Bake: Complete Guide to Perfect Cakes, Cookies, Pies, Tarts, Breads, Pizzas, Muffins, Sweet and Savory	Books	5	47	50	N	N	What a great Baking Book!	Again, I was impressed. This book has recipes for many different kinds of baked goodies. From breads to tarts and cakes to pies, this relatively easy book almost has it all.<br />I must warn you, if you are going to buy this book to learn &quot;How to Bake&quot;, then this book is really not for you. Nick Malgieri does not go into any type of specific detail about 'how to bake' in the meaning itself, but he does tell us how to bake many delicious treats.<br />This book is packed with recipes for assorted breads, scones, biscuits and muffins. Pizza and Focaccia, chicken and fruit pies. Many different fruit and creme tarts. Beautiful to look at and eat Cookies and Filled Cookies. He has included a wide assortment of Cakes (my family's favorite), with frosting. He even has plenty of recipes using certain types of dough, such as Pate a Choux, to make many different kinds of pastries. Some of the pastry doughs are a little time consuming, as are some of the bread recipes, but they are pretty uncomplicated, and very much worth the time and effort.<br />I have tried out several different kinds of breads and pastries, which of course, were all superb. Every recipe is clear in its description, and there are illustrations for many of them.  There are two sections of beautiful color pictures that are pleasing to the eye as well as the pallette.<br />This book is a welcome addition to any cooks library. I love the variety of different recipes all packed into one book. If you want to impress your family and friends with your culinary skills, then I suggest giving this book a try.	2001-02-20
US	50147354	RRZZNJKW1Y8KA	0609603078	665923682	Great Cakes	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Can it get any better?	I love this book! I recently purchased this great book to improve my knowledge of cakes. Was I in for a terrific surpriseor what? This is the Best Cake book ever.<br />First, Carole Walter gives us excellent and specific instructions on Ingredients, Equipment, Procedures and Techniques. She goes into precise but interesting detail on these subjects. The benefits of scales, sifters, cake pans and electric appliances are just to name a few. We learn how to melt chocolate, plump raisins and currants, and how to grate fresh citrus rinds, and much more. Honestly there were things I did not know about, and I was thankful that they were included.<br />We are then taken into her vast world of Cakes. I never knew this many cakes existed. There are over a dozen different kinds of Pound Cakes. Tons of recipes for Plain Butter Cakes (my favorite). She also includes many recipes for Cakes w/Crunch, Cakes from the Garden (types of fruit cakes), 5 different Upside Down Cakes, Sponge Cakes, Chiffon Cakes, Cheese Cakes and the fanciest of all European Tortes and Gateaux. (You must try the Chocolate Genoise, it is to die for).<br />Of course that is not all. She then gives us fillings, 16 different frostings, sauces, glazes, toppings and whipped creams. And if that is not enough, she even has cakes with reduced fat, and reduced cholesterol and the same for the frosting, sauces and syrups.<br />This book has it all. This is a cake lovers dream. Ask my family. I have made approx. 20 different cakes, and each one has received a standing ovation. Ms. Walters recipes are simplistic and easy to follow. So kiss those cake mixes goodbye, and become  the Cake Master today!	2001-02-14
US	50147354	RU65PVWN9B8NJ	0452152984	146685771	The Sleeping Beauty Novels: The Claiming of Sleeping Beauty / Beauty's Release / Beauty's Punishment	Books	1	9	28	N	N	I was horrified!	What can I say? Mere words cannot describe how I feel about these &quot;Literary&quot; works of Anne Rice. I had no idea what I was in for when I ordered these books. I assumed that they would be much different. Erotica? I have never read it before, nor will I ever again. But let me say, these books are the farthest thing from eroticism as you can get.<br />No wonder Anne Rice wrote these under an alias. These books are appalling. There is nothing sensual or erotic in these stories. These books are based on the humiliation and degradation of humans. From the moment I opened the first book of this trilogy, I was aghast. I think the expression on my face must have been one of sheer horror. It took all my will power, not to take these works and fling them across the room and then light their despicable words on fire.<br />Ms. Rice takes us to our beloved fairy tale of Sleeping Beauty, who is awakened from her long sleep by a strong and handsome Prince who initiates Beauty with more than a mere kiss. She is then stripped of her dignity (and clothing) and subjected to the whims of her beloved Princes perverse pleasures. Made to parade amongst everyone in her kingdom, nothing but a mere object made for everyones perverse pleasures. Page after page of explicit descriptions that made me cringe. Dear god, who knew that Ms. Rice had such a disgustingly vast knowledge of sexual torture.<br />I have read reviews which state, that this book is &quot;Beautiful&quot; and that one must read it to understand the basis of human desire. Please. Desire has nothing to do with dominance and torture. These books were just plain sick. I know I am the minority here, but I genuinely despised these books, and the only reason I finished them was to see if there were any redeeming qualities. Unfortunately there were NONE.<br />I give this atrocious story my lowest rating ever. I do not recommend it in the least. Do yourself a great favor and do not subject yourself to this &quot;work&quot;.	2001-02-08
US	50147354	R37QU24ZR50CAI	0452156610	146685771	The Sleeping Beauty Novels: The Claiming of Sleeping Beauty / Beauty's Release / Beauty's Punishment	Books	1	39	83	N	N	I was horrified!	What can I say? Mere words cannot describe how I feel about these &quot;Literary&quot; works of Anne Rice. I had no idea what I was in for when I ordered these books. I assumed that they would be much different. Erotica? I have never read it before, nor will I ever again. But let me say, these books are the farthest thing from eroticism as you can get.<br />No wonder Anne Rice wrote these under an alias. These books are appalling. There is nothing sensual or erotic in these stories. These books are based on the humiliation and degradation of humans. From the moment I opened the first book of this trilogy, I was aghast. I think the expression on my face must have been one of sheer horror. It took all my will power, not to take these works and fling them across the room and then light their despicable words on fire.<br />Ms. Rice takes us to our beloved fairy tale of Sleeping Beauty, who is awakened from her long sleep by a strong and handsome Prince who initiates Beauty with more than a mere kiss. She is then stripped of her dignity (and clothing) and subjected to the whims of her beloved Princes perverse pleasures. Made to parade amongst everyone in her kingdom, nothing but a mere object made for everyones perverse pleasures. Page after page of explicit descriptions that made me cringe. Dear god, who knew that Ms. Rice had such a disgustingly vast knowledge of sexual torture.<br />I have read reviews which state, that this book is &quot;Beautiful&quot; and that one must read it to understand the basis of human desire. Please. Desire has nothing to do with dominance and torture. These books were just plain sick. I know I am the minority here, but I genuinely despised these books, and the only reason I finished them was to see if there were any redeeming qualities. Unfortunately there were NONE.<br />... I do not recommend it in the least...	2001-02-08
US	50147354	R2L00MW0287RI8	0316693251	319187092	Roses Are Red (Alex Cross)	Books	4	23	25	N	N	Not a bad way to pass a gloomy day.	Let's see. This is the first James Patterson novel I have read. It was a pretty good, extremely fast paced read. I was a little skeptical reading first person form (which I am not fond of), but Det. Alex Cross, was quite an interesting character. This is a sequel of sorts to a previous novel &quot;Kiss the Girls&quot;, in which the good guy, Det. Alex Cross is crime solving again. I don't know if any characters other than Cross were in Patterson's other novel, since I have not read it yet. (But I plan to)<br />In this suspenseful drama, there is a lunatic out on the loose in the DC area. He is called the Mastermind. He truly is masterful, because he leaves no clues and is meticulous about everything he does. His reasons are understood by no one. He definitely enjoys the killing and preying on of innocent people. Nothing he does adds up to Det. Cross and the FBI. We are swept into a world of crime, where nothing makes sense. I was on edge wanting to know what will happen next. And believe me, some of you will be shocked by the outcome. (although I had my suspicions)<br />This book was better than I expected. I was a little annoyed with the page and a half chapters (125 chapters in a 300 page book,is a little extreme), but that seems to be Patterson's writing technique. He is a good author, and I suggest giving him a try.	2000-12-06
US	50147354	R1N16Q54NT0YEH	0345422384	140729396	Pandora (New Tales of the Vampires)	Books	5	41	42	N	Y	Mesmerizing	Wow! I was literally swept off my feet in this entrancing tale. This is Anne Rice at her best. This novel has it all, Romance, Intrigue, and Drama. But best of all, it has History.<br />Oh, how I love history. From Ancient Egypt, to the Roman Empires and Greek Mythology. It is just beautiful. Anne Rice is a great Historical storyteller. She obviously does meticulous research, and she takes her knowledge and spins a mesmerizing tale of olden times, when people lived life, just for the sake of living.<br />She writes of an era, when time was abundant. And it was spent with families and close friends, reading, writing and gaining insight into their life. Expanding their minds with philosophy and poetry and just about anything that was within their grasp. When time really did take a lifetime, and it was savored with all its beauty. Unlike now, with time passing by, faster than we can blink.<br />This is not another novel of a Vampire in Rices collection,this is the story of Pandora. A woman whose mind rivaled that of a scholar, her thirst for knowledge and the meaning of what it is to exist, her main quest in this life. She is a woman who is betrayed, but that will not stop her. She embraces her induction into vampire hood, because this way, she can savor her love of life and feel it all the more.<br />This is an exceptional book. My only regret is that it ends too soon. I would have gladly lived with Pandora for a thousand more pages.	2000-11-30
US	50147354	R15XT9FNR0254L	0671737643	869998580	Whitney, My Love	Books	5	23	29	N	N	Exquisite!!	This novel is just Exquisite! Judith McNaught is my all time favorite authour. She has a way of making you fall head over heels for her characters. I am loathe to say goodbye when one of her novels end. And while I love all of her novels, Whitney My Love has no equal. I have read this book over and over again, and it never failed to make me laugh uncontrollably or to be caught with a constant lump in my throat.<br />Whitney Stone is a motherless young hoyden. She lives with her father, Martin Stone. He has no patience for his willful daughter, and he decides that Whitney should go to live with her Aunt and Uncle, Lord and Lady Gilbert. It is his hope that by residing with them in France, and having a mother figure in her life, she will learn how to act and behave as a proper young lady.<br />Whitney flourishes under the lavish care bestowed upon her by her doting Aunt and Uncle. She blossoms into a vivacious beauty. Her open personality and striking good looks taking Paris and many hearts by storm.<br />In comes Clayton Westmoreland, the devilishly handsome Duke of Claymore. He is infatuated with the outspoken beauty and sets out to win her heart for his very own. He must tread lightly with this wary beauty, for she is not taken in by money and titles. So it is up to Clayton to win her affection with his own charms to guide him.<br />Passions ignite between the Duke and his young beauty. Whitney will not easily succomb to her &quot;Lord&quot;. Misunderstandings and false betrayals plague both Whitney and Clayton. But is it true that Love can conquer all?<br />On a last note, I have read many reviews that claim Whitney was &quot;raped&quot;. I do not know how some have come to that conclusion. What I read (from her earlier version) was a painful first time experience.<br />Anyhow, this book is great. It is an emotion filled masterpiece. Do yourself a great favor and read it!	2000-10-28
US	50147354	R1PUZR0PR652C4	0671019716	811840260	Shades of Twilight	Books	5	121	128	N	N	Wow! What A Great Love Story!	I loved this story. I am surprised that it did not have a perfect 5 star rating. This is my second Linda Howard book, and it will most definately NOT be my last.  This is a story about Roanna and Webb. They are distant second cousins. 7 year old Roanna is left orphaned when her parents die in a car accident. She comes to live with her grandmother at Davencourt, her families rich estate. She does not feel welcome by her family, they treat her as if she is not wanted, but only Webb is there to protect her and make her feel safe.<br />Roanna grows up developing a huge crush on Webb and practically worships him. She tries out her burgeoning feelings for him in a kiss that sets of a cataclysim of events. Webb and his wife Jessie,Roanna's other cousin, have a fight and threaten each other with divorce.  That very night,Jessie ends up dead.<br />Everyone in the family blames Webb, even though the police have no evidence of the fact. He feels no support from anyone and he takes off to start a new life. Spirited Roanna having lost Webb, the only person who ever made her feel worthy, is at a loss. She hides inside her self. Ceasing to care about anyone or anything.  Ten years pass, and Roanna grows older, gone is the hoydenish teenager,and in her place is a quiet and sophisticated young woman. At her grandmothers request, Roanna goes off to find Webb. Her grandmother wants to make peace with him before she dies.<br />Webb is surprised when he first sees Roanna all grown up. Gone was the spirited girl with adoring eyes, in her place was a woman with no outward signs of emotion. He feels strong emotions for her, and is upset with the way she is all closed up to him. All withdrawn from everything. Unable to resist her anymore, he takes Roanna and spends a night with her filled with love and passion.<br />Roanna still loves Webb, but does not believe that he could actually love her back. She believes that he will go back to Davencourt for the estate and money, but never for her.<br />Webb is drawn to Roanna and desperately wants to see her the way she was. Laughing and smiling again. He returns because of her. Unfortunately, someone wants him dead.  They make attempts at his and Roannas life. Webb has to make Roanna see that he loves her for her and at the same time find out who is threatening thier lives.<br />I loved this book. I especially loved the romance and love between Roanna and Webb. She gave him unconditional love. He gave her the love back, he was so kind and gentle with her. You could feel that he was very concerned with her health and well bieng as well.<br />This was a great novel. I recommend it to anyone who loves a good romantic read. There was some mystery in this book that was good too.er.<br />Webb is drawn to Roanna and desperately wants to see her the way she was. Laughing and smiling again. He returns because of her. Unfortunately, someone wants him dead.  They make attempts at his and Roannas life. Webb has to make Roanna see that he loves her for her and at the same time find out who is threatening thier lives.<br />I loved this book. I especially loved the romance and love between Roanna and Webb. She gave him unconditional love. He gave her the love back, he was so kind and gentle with her. You could feel that he was very concerned with her health and well bieng as well. <br />This was a great novel. I recommend it to anyone who loves a good romantic read. There was some mystery in this book that was good too.	2000-10-26
US	50147354	R2O9U9HGZ4K51B	0440215935	646406005	Hunter's Moon	Books	2	4	15	N	N	Boring	Although I like Ms. Robards novels, I am not fond of her fortay into contemporary romance. This novel is no exeption.<br />There is not one specific thing that I did not like about this book. It was an altogether cumulation of different things, that made it boring and predictable.<br />Molly Ballard is a young woman down on her luck. She is supporting and caring for her 4 younger siblings. So it comes as no surprise, that when an opportunity arises for her to make off with $5000, she jumps at the chance. Unfortunately though for her, she is caught on a tape of an undercover FBI investigation.<br />Will Lyman is the undercover FBI agent who catches the young Molly Ballard in the act. Instead of persecuting her, he decides that she would be useful in his investigation, and he seizes the opportunity to use her as a spy for the FBI.<br />Will and Molly pose as Boyfriend and Girlfriend. I guess it is the norm for a 40 year old man, and a 24 year old girl to hook up. Maybe, this book IS based in the southern part of the US. And while this type of thing could be swallowed in Ms. Robards historical romances, this major age difference at such a day and time as now, is actually sort of perverted to me. And Molly of course is a girl of questionable morals, that was not in her favor either.<br />I don't know why, but this book really turned me off. The age difference could have been more tolerable if Ms. Robards had shaved off a couple of years and made Will a little younger. There is an 11 year gap between my husband and I, but I was 19 when we were married and he was 30.<br />Maybe its just me, but this book wasn't even interesting in any other aspect. I did not keep me riveted or in suspense. I quite willingly closed it at night and finished it in the morning.  Its up to you, but I do not recommend it.	2000-10-11
US	50147354	R22DSMOYET8QH	0380767643	253707264	A Woman Without Lies	Books	1	28	30	N	N	Prince Un-Charming	This book was too much. Shards of glass, rays of light, anger, hurt, betrayal..... Talk about repetitive. I love Elizabeth Lowell, but this book was a bit too much.<br />Angelina Lange or &quot;Angel&quot;, is a creator of stained glass. Miles Hawkins or &quot;Hawk&quot;, is some rich guy who buys land or something. I actually don't remember what is was he did, his character was not all that memorable.<br />They meet through a mutual aquaintance who needs both of thier help. Hawk mistakes Angel for a promiscuous golddigger and treats her like crap, and Angel of course, falls for his &quot;suave&quot; treat you like dirt attitude.<br />This is a story of an embittered man meeting no personality woman. How these two fall in love, is way beyond my comprehension. I have no idea what the point of this story was. Their relationship lacked something. Hmmmm, what was it? Oh yes, love, respect, kindness the bases for any relationship. This is not a romance novel, this is novel of what NOT to do in a relationship.<br />I don't recommend it. Pure waste of time.	2000-10-10
US	50147354	RRE10H1VOP4EV	0671744577	701747864	Eternity	Books	1	16	21	N	N	Eternity of Stupidity	Oh my god! What could Jude Devereaux have been thinking of when she submitted this joke of a novel to her editor. I cannot believe this same person wrote, A Knight In Shining Armor.<br />This is the story of Carrie Montgomery, a spoiled little rich girl who has everything and has time to spare. So she and her little friends decide to set up a Mail order bride service for men and women alike. She falls in love with a picture of a man and his two children, Carrie is determined to be his mail order bride. So her parents leave her to galavant across the country to marry a man neither she or they know.<br />Joshua Greene (her new hubby) is not amused by his petite little bride. He had expected a horse of a wife to come and essentially be his personal servant, mule, laborer. So when the dainty Carrie who cannot work his fields appears with her good looks and lots of money, she just wouldn't do.<br />Personally, I found this book to be insulting to women in general. Carrie eventually ended up with her guy, but it implied that attractive women were ditzy and used money and wiles to get thier way, while mulish horselike women could accomplish anything on their own merit.<br />Truly, this book is not worth the 5 minutes it takes to read it. Don't waste your time.	2000-10-10
US	50147354	R3RALSWJ7H13KV	0786862173	20184336	Surrendering to Motherhood: Losing Your Mind, Finding Your Soul	Books	2	58	70	N	N	Is this what one calls Surrendering?	I was introduced to this book by my husband.He was listening to a radio talk show, while driving to work. Their guest was Iris Krasnow, the author of Surrenderig to Motherhood. He apparantly liked what he heard, because he  came home, raving about this book. He insisted that I MUST read it. He  claimed that it would make my life as a mother oh so clear.<br />I finally  agreed.  He bought me the book and waited expectantly. I told him that I  must first READ it before gaining insight.  I started into this  autobiography of sorts. I don't know what exactly I was expecting, but it  certainly was not this.<br />I honestly did not like this book. I forced  myself to finish it, just to make my husband happy. I did not feel as if I  had gained anymore wisdom or insight in my role as a mother. I stay home  with my children of my own free will, I would sacrifice everything for  them. Yet, it nearly took the death of Iris Krasnows firstborn child, to  realize that she was missing out on everything.<br />I cannot see what was  the huge sacrifice that Iris Krasnow made. Nothing is too good to let go of  for your own flesh and blood. Besides, she supposedly had the perfect life.  College in sunny California, Jet Setter jobs in Chicago and Houston. A  perfect journalistic opportunity in Washington.<br />She fell in love with  and married the so called perfect man. Maintained the perfect size 6 body.  I mean this woman had absolutely no complaints. Good jobs, lots of money  and a great loving and supportive husband. And to top it all off, she was  in her late thirties when she had her first child. Far from being a young  chick.<br />This woman had and has it all. She is happy and content with her  life. She has accomplished many dreams in her forty some years. Staying  home and raising your children should be a given. Especially if you have  the means, as Iris Krasnow does.  I truly do not see that she had much  surrendering to do.<br />Stay home and raise your children? Yes, that would  be great and perfect. I am sure that anyone given the means would jump at  the opportunity to make their children first priority. But unfortunately  some people live in the REAL world. That is not always what one can do.  Sometimes surrendering is out of our hands., that would  be great and perfect. I am sure that anyone given the means would jump at  the opportunity to make their children first priority. But unfortunately  some people live in the REAL world. That is not always what one can do.  Sometimes surrendering is out of our hands.	2000-06-15
US	50147354	R1LFDF329KSBYX	0380774933	478056161	Keeper of the Heart (Ly-San-Ter Family)	Books	1	6	10	N	N	Don't waste your time!	Contrary to the opinions of previous reviewers, I give this book one star. If I could go lower, I would. This was one of the worst books I have ever read. I am appalled by this &quot;novel&quot;.<br />This piece of literature  is the sequel to Warriors Woman. I do not understand how Ms. Lindsey can go  from writing such a beautiful novel as Warriors Woman, to write one such as  this.  All the characters of her earlier novel are also in this one, but  their roles have changed. They are not the same characters we loved.<br />This story is about Challen and Tedra's daughter, Shanelle. She meets a  visiting warrior, Falon Van'Yer. They are supposedly drawn to one another  upon their first meeting. Love at first sight. We are then taken through  almost 400 pages of extremely boring text, until they reach &quot;Happily  Ever After&quot;.<br />The story line is very poor. The story itself does not  make much sense. The main characters are very unlikable. I recommend that  you do not waste your time or effort.	2000-06-15
US	50147354	R38MQDK10Y9TKV	0380769549	78440499	Forbidden (Medieval Series)	Books	5	11	13	N	N	Another Masterpiece by Elizabeth Lowell.	This is a splendid tale. A tale in which you are taken into a dark world of Learned and Sorcery. I found this novel to be quite intriging.<br />Amber The Untouched. Duncan The Scots Hammer. He came to her in shades of  darkness. Upon first touching him, Amber feels light and pleasure such as  she has never known before. For Amber has known only darkness in touching  another human. She could scry the truth from another person, but in doing  so, it only brings her pain. Forbidden.<br />Duncan awakes in the beautiful  Ambers care. He has lost his memory. He cannot remember anything of his  past life. Only the love from Amber saves him from the dark seething  memories without answer.<br />They forge a love, despite Duncans uncertainty  with his past. But it is as if their lives are inexplicably entertwined.  Amber is almost certain who Duncans true identity is. Yet she is afraid to  reveal. When Duncan finally realizes who he is, he feels such betrayal from  the Amber beauty. She had known, and in doing so, keeping it from him, she  had forsaken him.<br />Betrayal, hurt and anger fill them both. Will Ambers  love be enough to heal the Scots Hammer? Or will Duncans immense feelings  of anger and betrayal destroy all that they have? Including his precious  Amber?<br />This is a great story. You will love it.	2000-06-15
US	50147354	R8Y5UCLOXIIWH	0380767589	352678884	To the Ends of the Earth	Books	5	48	54	N	N	Not your typical Mushy romance.	First of all, I would just like to say that Elizabeth Lowell is an exceptional writer. Her storys never lack depth or substance, and this book is certainly no exception.<br />This story involves the beautiful Cat  Cochran, a photographer who lives and breathes her work. She is a woman who  works day and night so that she can support her mother and two siblings.  She is a woman who has been hurt by an unforgiving past.<br />Travis Danvers  is a self made rich man. His past has also left him unwary and cautious of  all women. He cannot trust that any women would love anything more than  money. Even himself.<br />With that state of mind, Travis meets Cat, the  lovely photographer for his book on sailboats. He is drawn to her quiet  beauty, but of course assumes that she is like most of the other women he  has known. Women who are only interested in him for his vast fortune. He  desperately wants to believe otherwise, but he has been hurt before.<br />Even though Cat has been deeply hurt by &quot;rich&quot; men, she cannot  help but fall for the striking Travis Danvers. Because of her immense  responsibilities, Cat cannot stop overworking herself. Travis tries to buy  her time with him, but she cannot accept. She will not accept his money,  she will be no man's mistress. Cat Cochran takes care of her own self.<br />Cat and Travis' pasts hurts come in the way of their blossiming love.  Past betrayals make Travis hurt Cat in an unforgivable manner. Alone and  afraid, Cat loses something deeply cherished, something which means the  world to her. Only the love from Travis can make the wronged, right.<br />This is an excellent novel, which will take you and sweep you off your  feet. I recommend it wholeheartedly. You won't regret it.	2000-06-14
US	50147354	R3UUQCNEGJBM95	0380753014	142636245	Warrior's Woman (Ly-San-Ter Family)	Books	5	31	35	N	N	If I could give it 10 stars, I would!	I love this book. From the moment I started it, to the moment I finished it, I was spellbound. I have rarely been drawn to characters such as these two.<br />Tedra De Arr and Challen Ly-San-Ter are two of the most memorable  people you will ever meet. This is a great Science Fiction - Fantasy -  Romantic novel.<br />This story takes place in the future of 2139 on the  planet Kystran. Tedra De Arr, the lovely heroine, is a Sec 1, a law unto  herself. She finds her planet being taken over by a barbaric culture of  Sword Weilders. A lost race to the Kystrani. She must take action to save  her planet before they all become slaves. So she steals a spacecraft and  goes to explore the universe for help.<br />In comes the planet Sha-Ka'an,  where she meets Challen, the drop dead gorgeous warrior, who will steal her  heart and soul. He is the barbaric sort who must have his say and way no  matter what the cost. I must confess, I love his attitude, it reminds me of  my husband who is of the same thinking. But you get used to it!<br />Tedra,  never having succumbed to any man before, is outraged. Yet deep down, her  feminine side would not have it any other way.<br />I must say, that I  applaud Ms. Lindsey in writing such a book that shows that there is nothing  wrong with a woman if she respects and listens to her MAN. Just because a  woman were to do that does not make her in any way inferior to him.  Women  must not always be the strongest and have the only word in order for them  to be equal. We are equal no matter what. This book goes about this subject  in a delightful way. I recommend it wholeheartedly.	2000-06-07
US	50147354	R2DZTO356MUBOG	0671034413	781227321	All the Queen's Men	Books	5	44	46	N	N	A Good Read!	I must say, that I totally enjoyed this novel.  It was a great escape. I actually could not put it down!<br />I have never read a Linda Howard novel before, and I am pleasantly surprised.  This book has it all. Romance,  action, suspense and adventure.  The characters are totally believable, and  their chemistry together sizzled.<br />The novel was extremely fast paced.  There were no boring scenic descriptions or mundane musings that make a  person want to skip the whole thing and say to &quot;heck&quot; with it.<br />I found the heroine, Neima, to be bright and funny. You find yourself  feeling for her. And what can we say about the hero, John Medina, except -  Love Him!  He is the perfect guy. Strong, yet sensitive, tough, yet gentle,  hard, yet vunerable. Plus, his looks are not too bad either.<br />I found  the CIA field agent angle to be refreshing in a romantic novel.  It was  interesting, not to read the same old story once again. The so called  &quot;bad&quot; guy, was no such thing. I wonder if there will be a story  involving him in the near future.<br />The only thing I did not enjoy about  this book was the ending.  It was left too open. We do not know what is the  outcome for the future of Neima and John. What role will they continue to  play for the CIA?  There are some steamy parts to the end, (which were a  little to &quot;high octane&quot; for me) but what do you expect in a  romance novel? All in all, I truly recommend this book.  It was an  extremely well written, fast paced read.	2000-05-28
US	50147354	R3JSTDQWHZI55H	0394800168	328733059	Green Eggs and Ham	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Every Child MUST have this Book!	This book is a Classic.  I never thought that one day I would  sit and read this book to my children, but that day has come.  My 5 year old knows this book by heart.  He cannot actually read the words, yet, everyday after  school he picks it out from amongst his books to read it to me.  I find  that endearing. I know that if you have children, Dr. Seuss is a must!  The  rhyming lyrics are smooth and musical to the ear and children find  &quot;Sam&quot; a riot. This is a great book to be read to children, or for  children to read themselves!	2000-05-22
US	50147354	RN57Y8AU2M29V	0380803682	183030674	Dr. Atkins' New Diet Revolution	Books	5	108	116	N	N	Read the Book and Understand it befor you believe the Hype!	This books title says it all. &quot;The New Diet Revolution&quot;.  This is a new revolution indeed. It is a extremely drastic change from the normal diets that we have all grown up with. Especially now with all the  &quot;NO FAT&quot; diet craze.  But reading this book will cast a much  needed sunshine on the dreary world of Dieting most of us live in.<br />Unlike some people who were skeptical when they first read Dr. Atkins's  theory of &quot;low carb, high fat&quot;, I immediately believed it. I was  the classic carbohydrate addict.  I restricted myself from eating any sort  of fat, loaded up on the so called &quot;energy&quot; foods, and managed to  steadily gain 75lbs. I tried everything short of starving myself (which was  the only thing that worked) yet I could not lose an inch or an ounce.  Then  one day while I was surfing the internet, I happened upon the Atkins  website. It was like a veil had been lifted from my eyes.  I understood  that eating all those so called &quot;Fat Free&quot; sugar laden foods was  what was making me &quot;Fat&quot;.<br />It is true, carbohydrates, are the  enemy. Think about it. Centuries ago, there were no candy bars, sodas,  cookies, vending machines filled with a carbohydrate addicts snackorama  dream.  According to recent studies, Americans now consume more than 100lbs  of sugar per year, up from 4lbs since the beginning of last century  (1900's). WOW! The vast majority of  American society today is Obese or on  the verge of it.<br />Do not listen to people who tell you that your body  cannot function without carbohydrates, that is only slightly true.  The  body can live without it for a long time, time enough for you to utilize  your stored fat into much needed fuel. As soon as the human body depletes  itself from its store of glycogen (carbohydrates), your body goes into a  state of Ketosis. According to some doctors, ketosis is a dangerous state  to be in, since many diabetics reach this state if their insulin is low and  it becomes dangerous for them.  As long as you are not a diabetic, the  state of ketosis that the body enters after it is free of carbohydrates, is  not in any way dangerous to a person without diabetes.  In fact Ketosis has  many great qualities. It is like you are on a fast, and if you have ever  been on a fast, you know that fasting suppresses the appetite. And unlike  fasting which WILL deplete your body of its muscle, when you are in a state  of Ketosis, your body utilizes its fat for energy, something which it  probably never did before. You do not lose precious muscle while in a state  of Ketosis, nor do you feel the incessant need for food, plus no more mood  swings or shifts in energy.<br />This diet has helped me in many ways.  I  have lost half of the weight I need to. I no longer have food on my mind  24/7.  I feel that I am FREE!<br />I have read  different sources about the  Atkins Diet, take my word, do not believe everything that you read. After  losing the weight that you need, Atkins advocates introducing the  &quot;good carbs&quot; back into your diet, such as fruits and veggies. The  trick is to stay away from refined sugar, flour and like foods.<br />And for  those who are just starting out, if you feel the need for sweets, he has  many different foods which will help stop the cravings. My favorite is the  Atkins Diet Advantage bar, it can be found in most health food stores.<br />To all the pessimists out there, give it a chance. It is different, but  I believe that if you give it a genuine try, it WILL work!low and  it becomes dangerous for them.  As long as you are not a diabetic, the  state of ketosis that the body enters after it is free of carbohydrates, is  not in any way dangerous to a person without diabetes.  In fact Ketosis has  many great qualities. It is like you are on a fast, and if you have ever  been on a fast, you know that fasting suppresses the appetite. And unlike  fasting which WILL deplete your body of its muscle, when you are in a state  of Ketosis, your body utilizes its fat for energy, something which it  probably never did before. You do not lose precious muscle while in a state  of Ketosis, nor do you feel the incessant need for food, plus no more mood  swings or shifts in energy. <br />This diet has helped me in many ways.  I  have lost half of the weight I need to. I no longer have food on my mind  24/7.  I feel that I am FREE! <br />I have read  different sources about the  Atkins Diet, take my word, do not believe everything that you read. After  losing the weight that you need, Atkins advocates introducing the  &quot;good carbs&quot; back into your diet, such as fruits and veggies. The  trick is to stay away from refined sugar, flour and like foods. <br />And for  those who are just starting out, if you feel the need for sweets, he has  many different foods which will help stop the cravings. My favorite is the  Atkins Diet Advantage bar, it can be found in most health food stores.  <br />To all the pessimists out there, give it a chance. It is different, but  I believe that if you give it a genuine try, it WILL work!	2000-05-22
US	50147354	R18MG1KIF7YNZR	0812091396	750076481	Math the Easy Way: Your Key to Learning (Barron's E-Z)	Books	5	28	29	N	N	Great Review!	I found this book to be extremely helpful. I have never been very good in the math department and this book has helped me considerably. It is very easy to understand and it makes problems such as (6/2)-(8/9)=? seem very  simple.<br />The author first gives you a basic outline and then he goes into  more detail, with many sample problems. This book explains basic concepts  much better than any of my former teachers ever did. I am going back to  college and I needed a refresher course, I could not have asked for or  found a better book to get the math review I needed.  I recommend this book  wholeheartedly.	2000-03-07
US	50147354	R2E8QLROKT7WVF	0380755556	312419444	Tiger's Eye	Books	5	24	29	N	N	The best book ever!	I have read many books, as of yet, I have never read one as good as this! Tigers Eye is the most beautiful book you will ever read! The heroine Isabella, is kidnapped and meant to be &quot;done away with&quot;,  fortunately for her, Alec &quot;the Tiger&quot; Tyrone is the one who  should be &quot;doing away&quot; with her.  This is a cute and hilarious  novel of &quot;rich girl&quot;, meets &quot;poor boy&quot;, although Alec  is far from a Boy.  Two people, who are as different as night from day,  fall in love in this beautiful tale. Travel with them throughout England  and Europe as we follow them into their deep love. You will laugh and cry  with them, and you will be very sad when this book ends. You must read it  to believe it. I recommend this book for all the romantics out there.  You  must meet Isabella and Alec (the dreamiest man alive). You will not be  disapointed.	2000-02-10
US	50147354	R1X9MITHH7LUJN	0380762560	753332767	Surrender My Love (Haardrad Family)	Books	1	3	5	N	N	Huge Disappointment	I am sorry, but I was truly disappointed by this book. I found the book to be choppy and uneven.  I did not find myself feeling sorry for the heroine Erika, nor could I gather compassion for the wronged Selig.  I read the  first two novels in this series, Hearts Aflame and Fires of Winter and they  are definately worth reading.  I love most all of Ms. Lindsey's books, but  I think she was under pressure to finish the Trilogy and she did not put  much effort into this novel.  The plot and characters were very weak, even  the characters from the earlier novels were very unlikable. I do not  recommend this book. (sorry to the previous reviewers)	2000-02-10
US	50147354	R29S0R6Y0C8C1X	0446300578	402906162	Loving Julia	Books	5	37	39	N	N	Passionate Love Story	This is a beautiful novel.  It is about a street waif named Jewel, who gets mixed up into some kind of scheme concocted by a rich dying man to make trouble for his wealthy family.  She meets Sebastian, the wealthy  relative, and he decides to turn her into a lady to spite his evil mother.  Over the course of their relationship, in which Sebastian trys to turn  Julia (her new name) into a lady (reminisant of My Fair Lady), he falls in  love with the stunning beauty she becomes.  There are many entertaining  plots that occur throughout, just as there are heartwrenching ones.  I  throughly enjoyed this book.  The characters and plots are extremely well  written, Ms. Robards has outdone herself with this one.  If you love  passionate love stories that will make you laugh and cry, then this one is  for you!	2000-02-10
US	50147354	RL5Q59QEII8XB	0380762595	742024238	Until Forever (Avon Historical Romance)	Books	5	7	9	N	N	One of the Best!	Wow, this is one of the best books I have read by Johanna Lindsey.  She has many great books, but this is by far, one of my favorites.  I love how Rosaleen, the kind of nerdy, Professer happens to find herself involved  with a hunk of Medievil past named Thorn.  I am not a fan of time travel  (except with A Knight in Shining Armor) but this novel does it excellently.  Going back and forth through time, with Rosaleen and Thorn falling for  each other is precious.  The way the outcome of the future is affected by  the role they play in the past is hilarious.  The ending is to die for, I  recommend this book to all the romantics out there!	2000-02-10
US	50147354	R1EAIUUNLZHA85	0380762587	921465515	You Belong to Me (Cardinia's Royal Family)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A must Read!	Set back in Russian times, this book is a beautifully written historical romance.  The &quot;drop dead&quot; gorgeous Count Vasili, must honor his deceased fathers so called wish, for him to wed.  His mind is set on making  his bride to be loathe and despise him.  Little does he know that, the  stubborn though well bred, Alexandra (his bride to be) has the same thing  in mind.  Known for her manner of always saying &quot;the truth&quot;, this  is a &quot;no holds barred&quot; battle between two stubborn Fools.  You  will love the misunderstandings and humour that goes on between these two.  This is a must read for anyone who enjoys lighthearted and hilarious banter  between two people who are obviously made for one another. I recommend this  book wholeheartedly!	2000-02-10
US	50147354	R547PT1783BXE	0345369947	128741164	The Mummy or Ramses the Damned	Books	5	5	7	N	N	A Must Read!	If you are looking for an excellent read, then I recommend this book.  Contrary to Anne Rice's habit of sometime droning on to the point of mind numbingness (ex.Servant of the Bones &amp; Memnoch the Devil), this book is  a refreshing change.  The story of Ramses and Cleopatra is especially  enjoyable, I loved reading about their past (even if it is Rice's creative  fiction).  I also found the leading Lady, Julie quite enchanting.  I  thought the book was fast paced and very enlightening.  I recommend this  book wholeheartedly, and if you want to read another good book, read, The  Witching Hour or Cry to Heaven.	2000-02-03
US	50147354	RP1AJ1S1I0X51	0345409671	983362906	Memnoch the Devil (Vampire Chronicles)	Books	1	3	5	N	N	Why?	I must confess, I am very saddened by the outcome of this novel.  I was on edge, excited and waiting for it to be released, only to be shocked by the sheer boringness of it.  I do not know what Anne Rice was thinking when she  wrote this novel, Her ways of being precise and overzealous with her plots  and descriptions went overboard in this novel.  I had to force myself to  continue reading this mundane literary piece even though I was beside  myself with shock.  I think Anne Rice's creative juice have either stopped  flowing, or are on their way to that destination.  She did an extremely  excellent job on the first four Vampire chronicles, and she should have  STOPPED.  I do not recommend you to waste your money or time, this book is  definately not worth it.  Read the Witching Hour, Cry to heaven or The  Feast of ALL Saints, those are soo worth your time and effort!	2000-02-02
US	50147354	R2OV5SYE905GZA	0345367898	470794658	The Witching Hour (Lives of Mayfair Witches)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	I am flabbergasted by the sheer beauty of this book	This was my first experience with Anne Rice, I must say that I am extremely glad that we have such writers with such vivid and concise imaginations.  This novel will suck you into its vortex of mystery and  mayhem.  If you &quot;liked&quot; Interview with a Vampire, then you will  &quot;love&quot; The Witching Hour.  I have never read such a book, (and I  have read plenty), with such amazing characters, plots and storylines.  You  will be mesmerized and you will lay awake at night, thinking of these  people like you knew them yourself.  I recommend this book wholeheartedly.  If you love twisted tales, then this one is for you.	2000-01-31
