US	50146752	R3HUSOZBBJLU16	0756401194	696418912	The Gathering Storm (Crown of Stars, Vol. 5)	Books	4	2	7	N	N	Ch ch ch changes	<br />Kate Elliott's style is shifting with every book and right now seems to be mid-transition. She's moving away from the deep and vivid descriptive style of her early &quot;Crown of Stars&quot; books to a more general and flowing descriptive manner of writing. She's trading her personal style to make a faster read, or so it seems. Some of her hardcore fans won't like that, I'm undecided and leaning toward displeasure. But, I'm betting that if she keeps going in that direction she'll appeal to a broader fan base. I guess that's good, because I've always been surprised and disappointed that she didn't have a drastically larger readership. I just don't see this move toward the center of the pack as worthy of her talent.	2003-07-10
US	50146752	RQ7CEG6ZYL4YL	031287653X	841554209	The King's Name (The King's Peace, Book 2)	Books	4	4	5	N	N	An excellent follow-up.	&quot;King's Name&quot; picks up the story five years after the ending of &quot;King's Peace&quot;. It is a very good story, with a couple small but noticeable differences. 1. It is smoother than &quot;King's Peace&quot;. Probably because Ms. Walton already had a feel for her world and for Sulien and didn't have to learn her way around them. 2. The slaps at the church are more subtle, put in milder, though no less certain terms.<br />The story is a little slow for a time (after a fast start), but for me the reading was worth every word.	2002-01-17
US	50146752	R34Y90FKFEJGQ9	0886778581	174499108	Green Rider	Books	4	1	2	N	N	More Kristen Britain, please.	I read this a year or so ago and thought it was wonderful. Nicely developed world, an original protagonist, excellent plotting. I've been waiting and waiting to see something else from Ms. Britain. Where the heck has she gone?	2001-12-19
US	50146752	R12PSGB3HKUII1	0804815356	200031430	Code of the Samurai	Books	4	11	15	N	N	Pretty interesting.	I was only going to give this 3 stars, until I remembered that it was never intended as a history book. It is a genuine historical example of the Samurai's code of conduct as perceived by one of the most respected of his day.<br />It's dry. Though a very short book it feels long. It does, however, give a handful or three of insights that will make you reflect for a few minutes, then sit back and say, &quot;Ok, I get that now.&quot; In other places the justification for certain views will seem like a desperate stretch, or even childish.<br />Even regarding that dryness and those few less than impressive explanations, I have to keep reminding myself that this is not &quot;literature&quot;, it is an ancient instruction manual that was highly read and highly respected by the people it was aimed at. If it was good enough for them to to live by, it's good enough for me to respect in its proper context.<br />I didn't enjoy it, but I did learn from it. In fact, I've been through parts of it several times, and likely will go through them again.<br />So, if you're looking for a snappy read on medevil Japan, look someplace else. If you just want a glimpse into an important sub-culture of that society, grab this book.	2001-11-29
US	50146752	RM4AVK5DABIOL	0451458559	806612847	Shockball: A Stardoc Novel	Books	4	2	2	N	N	About time!	Ohhhhhhhhh, Ms. Viehl. What the heck took you so long? 'Shockball' was a . . . well, a shock. Almost from the start it went in a direction that I completely did not expect. And just when I was feeling smug about being able to predict where things were going. I like very much that Reever takes some nice abuse, though I don't quite understand the way his role in the story changes. Maybe it'll be explained in the next book. I'm hoping so. Viehl's inventiveness is wonderful. Her depiction of an underground society is very well done and that alone helps drive the story. It doesn't have to, but it's a bonus I won't complain about. As with 'Endurance', there's a dark side to this tale, but it's more subdued, not so relentless. In 'Endurance' Cherijo began to deepen and take on much hoped for new demensions. That continues in 'Shockball', though not at the same frantic pace. Is this Viehl's best story to date? My favorite is still 'Endurance', but I'm betting that many people, especially those who shirked away from the intensity of 'Endurance', will find that 'Shockball' is their hands down favorite. So why are you still here? Go buy the book, and be ready for several days of ignoring everyone and everything around you while you sit alone in a lighted corner of your home, with 'Shockball' glued to your fingers	2001-11-10
US	50146752	R1BDK1HDWPE8OL	0738827061	230447575	The Banished God: Avatars	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Dark and intense.	A none standard Fantasy where the elves are not mindlessly good creatures of light and magic, where orcs are not stupid brutes with an unending thirst for evil and bloodshed. There are no crabby but kind old wizards showing up to help the good guys along just at the right time. <br />Pick it up. Loril, the main baddy, alone will be worth your time. Why? My lips are sealed.	2001-09-22
US	50146752	R2TQQF7WP02R2D	0743413032	748767546	The Way of the Gladiator	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Deceptive title	The book is more about the games themselves than about gladiators. More about the uses of beasts and the men who trained and fought them than about armed combat between highly trained private warriors.<br />That said, Mannix really does a nice job here. He keeps things interesting and remembers that the events of history are more important that the dates and names (though he doesn't exclude them). <br />Now I'm hoping that he'll write a book that really is specifically about the gladiators and the way they lived, trained and fought.	2001-09-22
US	50146752	R25ZPA7QREHQ3R	0312872291	798059063	The King's Peace (The King's Peace, Book 1)	Books	4	10	13	N	N	Great worldbuilding.	&quot;King's Peace&quot;, Jo Walton's first novel, is well planned and well written. Its an obviously fictional world that's large and intricate and put together with considerable foresight and thoughtfulness.  Some reviewers have gone so far as to complain that &quot;King's Peace&quot; is just another rehash of the King Arthur stories. It isn't. Not even close. There are similarities, some of them strong, but it's only enough to flavor the story, not enough to make it in any way seem trite, unoriginal, or lazy.	2001-02-24
US	50146752	R1W01YT2ULKZUV	0060930187	802369838	The Bell Jar: A Novel (Perennial Classics)	Books	4	1	3	N	N	Not a Salinger clone.	Robert Taubman of the New Statesman mistakenly said &quot;The Bell Jar&quot; was &quot;the first feminine novel in a Salinger mood&quot;. On reading the books first third you'll find yourself agreeing. Plath takes us down a path, seeming to say, &quot;Look ahead. This will lead us to the end.&quot; Then we're repeatedly taken off of that path, down apparent detours without meaning or relevance. This is a deception.<br /> By the time you reach the halfway point you'll see that what seems to be important is only a grounding place for what surrounds it. What seems to be rambling is actually what is important. Eventually we abandon the original path completely, and find that all of those supposed meaningless detours were the true path all along, that the story's real importance lies within them.	2001-02-05
US	50146752	R2UVTIAZWXFTFK	0553573403	268067011	A Game of Thrones (A Song of Ice and Fire, Book 1)	Books	3	24	30	N	N	Very good plotting and world building, ok characters.	The story is well written, and well told. The world is large, complex, and carefully thought out. The logic is very good. And I still have a complaint or two. Curse me for the pig that I am.<br /> My complaints? My rants? My ceaseless whinings? Ok, if you MUST know. Some characters develop nicely and show good depth throughout the novel, but too many are nothing but role players. They have but one face, one manner of being, one mode of thinking and behaving.<br /> What am I talking about? Characters like Ned Stark, who's single dimension is that he takes honor and honesty to the extremes of stupidity.<br /> Then there is Sansa Stark, who has nothing to her but selfishness and naivete.<br /> On the other side of the novel is Jaime Lannister and his sister, Cersei. The two of them are made exclusively of self-serving deceitfulness, brutality, and their incestuous passion.<br /> If any of those four characters were any thinner they wouldn't even be good for blowing your nose into. The remaining characters were largely pressed from similar molds.<br /> There are a few characters with some meat. Jon Snow, Arya Stark, Daenerys Targaryen, and Tyrion Lannister are all good enough that you'll find yourself reading on just to get back to them.<br /> While I'm whining let me toss this in. Things go unfailingly against the &quot;good guys&quot; for nine tenths of the novel. While this goes exactly with modern conventions it gets old in a novel of this size, making things far too predictable. What fun to read about X if you know what side of the coin will show after every flip, and you know in advance that you won't like seeing it?<br /> When things do turn around it's done believably, so don't think I mean that Martin's credibility is lacking. But this aspect of the story wore on me, stealing some of reading's pleasure.<br /> As is a growing trend (Lucas/Claremont, Holly Lisle, Kate Elliott, Sean Russell and S.L. Viehl have all done it recently), there isn't a real ending. Several of the plot lines do wind up with a sort of stopgap resolution, and the reader is given a measure of satisfaction in the ways that certain of them conclude, but the story's main thrust is left completely open. I suspect that it will remain so until the series' final book.ral of the plot lines do wind up with a sort of stopgap resolution, and the reader is given a measure of satisfaction in the ways that certain of them conclude, but the story's main thrust is left completely open. I suspect that it will remain so until the series' final book.	2001-02-05
US	50146752	R1LOEGQI7N5GOJ	0451526341	380925201	Animal farm: A Fairy Story	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Political writing as art.	As a bit of political rhetoric, as a story, and as a stylistic achievement, &quot;Animal Farm&quot; is an Orwell success.  Orwell's self-proclaimed goal was to, &quot;make political writing into an art&quot;. Did he succeed in &quot;Animal Farm&quot;? Yes. Maybe not in anyway that will take your breath away, but he certainly did far more than simply feed us another dose of political rhetoric. He made us enjoy it. He did an extraordinary job of fitting his agenda into this unusual medium, and making it largely amusing.  Stylistically, &quot;Animal Farm&quot; imitates a fairytale, and does it spectacularly well. That isn't to say that it's a thing for children. It's much too dark for that.  Orwell writes &quot;Animal Farm&quot; using both extended narrative and long passages of exposition to best advantage. While I dislike both of those things, he can't realistically be criticized for either. He was simply remaining faithful to the mold of a classic Fairytale.  The characters are thin to an extreme, but even that can't be considered a fault.  Again, he remains faithfully within the bounds of his chosen form. Each character fulfills its role and none of them ever violates the bounds of their purpose.  Is &quot;Animal Farm&quot; a perfect story? Maybe not, but it's very well done and deserves every speck of the praise it's received from other reviewers. Is it one of my all time favorites? No. It didn't hold my interest strongly enough. Is it worth the time I spent reading it? Definitely.	2001-01-30
US	50146752	R1QG99U7C4LY1Z	0380795272	488009353	Krondor the Betrayal:: Book One of the Riftwar Legacy	Books	2	4	7	N	N	Lazy writing. A horrible book.	This story could have been incredible. All the elements are in place. Instead it's simply bad writing, cover to cover. Feist took laziness to new depths with this book. None of the characters is anything more than window dressing. Feist gives us nothing to care about in them, and we don't. The dialogue is bromidic and the protagonists are all windbags. Worse, dialogue is used as a ploy for working in mile high piles of exposition and it's often done when the reader doesn't even need the information imparted, yet. Characters are introduced for no reason other than to get the protagonists information, bringing us more poorly disguised exposition. Feist doesn't even try to disguise what he's doing. In all such instances the facts divulged to the reader could have been worked in more skillfully and at a later time (when it was more relevant to the plot). The villains are invariably stupid. One, a trained assassin who trailed the party for hundreds of miles undetected, attacks three of the protagonists all by himself, head on. He of course dies without accomplishing his goal. Others, again trained assassins, stand in the middle of a road talking, rather than hide in the nearby rocks and brush, while they wait to ambush the same three protagonists. The actual fight scenes are equally inane. Three men, one of them is not a trained fighter and is a very poor magician, repeatedly take on four to six bad guys, always assassins and fighter types, and win. The protagonists, though they plod along on horse back and make no attempt at stealth, or are in the open when they spot their would-be assailants, always have the element of surprise, even when they accidently stumble upon the absurdly ineffective men sent to hunt/ambush them(again noting that these men are always supposedly trained assassins and fighters). Though one of the protagonists may be already wounded, and the three of them are outnumbered, they prevail. Things happen for no reason, a ruby is stolen from a magicianthe protagonists don't even know and without explanation the good squire, already returning to the king with gravely important news, becomes obsessed, not with the stone's return or discovering who stole it, but in finding out why it was stolen. Duh. One, it's a giant ruby, two we all know that in trite Fantasy stories like Feist's giant rubies owned by any magician are invariably magic themselves (as turns out to be the case here). The protagonists meet with only token resistance at every turn. Though there is myriad opportunity for Feist to insert real tension in the story he always takes the easy, pre-writing 101 path; the bad guys are stupid; the bad guys are inept fighters; the bad guys relent and simply let our heros pass unmolested.	2001-01-26
US	50146752	R3UQOKRHI7U1JU	0451457730	898233857	Stardoc	Books	4	1	3	N	N	What a fantastic first novel.	S.L. Viehl's very personal 1st person style causes things to develop more slowly than the same story would in 3rd person, but also more intimately. We aren't just observing Cherijo Grey Veil's journey, we're taking it with her.<br />Viehl has a talent for writing confrontations. Several long term conflicts develop quickly, ensuring that the story's tension never flags for long. Some of the plot twists are very clever. Several times I thought I knew what came next, only to be surprised, then surprised again at what natural extensions of the story this twists really were. It was all done very smoothly and convincingly. The rape scene was one instance when 3rd person could not have conveyed so much. We're right inside of Cherijo's head, experiencing everything as it happens.<br />My great complaint about this story is the proliferation of futuristic object names in the early going. This is on the editor's head though, not S.L Viehl's. Why? Because the editor kept pushing for more of this. Thankfully they reached a compromise and once the story gets going this is no longer a problem.<br />I also wish Cherijo cared more for herself. She's frustratingly accepting of way too much. Considering her background, and what a piece of dung her father is this is probably an unrealistic expectation on my part. S.L. Viehl did tell me that Cherijo develops significantly over the next couple of books. This can only add intensity to an already compelling story.	2001-01-26
US	50146752	RKEO0Y9BK1VOX	0156907399	762777669	To the Lighthouse	Books	1	33	60	N	N	Yawwwwwwwwwwwwwwn.	&quot;To the Lighthouse&quot; is a rambling monotony, a lifeless droning. No matter how loudly the literary lemmings scream, that will always be so. Woolf opens &quot;To the Lighthouse&quot; with a very uninteresting sentence and a &quot;So what&quot; bit of exposition; both come to nothing, promising us little and failing to deliver even that. The story was rambling, incoherent and boring in the extreme. Woolf jumped from head to head, thought to thought, as if each threatened to bite off her foot as she landed.  The &quot;story&quot; (and calling &quot;To the Lighthouse&quot; a story is a huge generosity) is painfully slow. So slow, in fact, that you come to &quot;The End&quot; and still nothing has developed. <br /> The book is filled with poorly written exposition that not only stops the story dead, but takes us completely away from it time and again. Each sentence starts with a jerk, wanders around, twists back upon itself, spirals away from us, then trips its way back to the starting point. Woolf seemed to have no idea about what it was that she really wanted to say and no ability to state any of it succinctly or coherently.  Continuing  in this trend, Woolf keeps the dialogue brief in the extreme and does it for no other reason than for her to run on and on and on and . . . with her exposition, using those miles long sentences that the reader is PRAYING will end, but that just keep muddling along, belaboring point after senseless point. The poor woman had no talent at all when it came to simply telling a straightforward tale and making it interesting to anyone but herself.<br /> Little  of the book has anything to do with the lighthouse, or with going there. It's more about the inner workings and complexities of a small group of people. Kind of like taking a series of snapshots of the group, then going one by one and telling what is in each of their heads. As we go through the various bits of these snapshots, now and then Woolf tosses out the seeds of something interesting, then immediately stamps the life out of them before they can sprout into something greater.  Included in these are some tantalizing crumbs of internal monologue, but Woolf can't even stay focused on that. She wonders through each character's personal musings just the same way that she wonders through the main story, never allowing one thought to fully form before rambling away from it. This is the story's real tragedy, because she turns some marvelous phrases, but loses them in the tale's incoherence.<br /> The shrieking chant of &quot;but it's EXPERIMENTAL fiction!&quot; cannot excuse the many and severe shortcomings. Bad writing is bad writing, no matter what feeble attempts at justification are made to hide that fact.	2001-01-19
US	50146752	R2SLAUCK42O18L	0886774667	308594529	The Initiate Brother: Book 1	Books	4	6	9	N	N	Meticulous plotting. An obvious fictional world.	In &quot;The Initiate Brother&quot; Sean Russell has built a world that is every bit as intricate and well planned as either of Kate Elliott's major worlds (&quot;Crown of Stars&quot; and &quot;Sword of Heaven&quot;). It isn't as intense as, or flow like,  Elliott's &quot;Crown of Stars&quot; but is at least the equal of her &quot;Sword of Heaven&quot;. Where Russell excels over Elliott is in the writing of human relationships. His are far more developed, having a feel of reality that few other authors can match. <br /> The story is set, kind of, in China, but has elements of mediaeval Chinese and Japanese societies. Clearly an invented world that only bears resemblance to those two Asian cultures and  not intended to be an exact representation of either.<br /> Russell has filled the book, cover to cover with POV shifts. It happens at least once per scene. While they're very noticeable. they don't detract from the story much, though it would have been helpful if Russell had divided the scenes.<br /> The book suffers from a plaque of exposition. In places this info dumps are large. This is one of my pet peeves, but to have them worked into the story would have made the book at least twice its current length. Working in all that info in a more acceptable manner would have slowed an already slow story, so having it is a trade off I can live with.<br /> There is absolutely no ending, not even anything that could be twisted into seeming one. It isn't a cliff hanger, since the book could have ended at any point after page 200 and left all the same questions unanswered.  The story simply stops, cut off in mid telling. There's only one reason for this; money. As a reader this appalls me, as a writer I'm screaming, &quot;You go!&quot;.<br /> Overall I'd say this is one of the most interesting pieces of fiction I've ever picked up. It isn't one of the more exciting pieces, or the most inspiring, but it gives a fascinating look into medieval Asian mind-sets and traditions. I think the ending could have been handled better, but I'm eager to get my hands on the concluding book to this story, &quot;Gatherer of Winds&quot;.	2001-01-19
US	50146752	R38TWHD5LGF316	0316769487	862964341	The Catcher in the Rye	Books	3	5	8	N	N	Alternately amusing and boring, but a VERY fast read.	I like Holden Caulfield, I really do, and &quot;Catcher in the Rye&quot; is a pretty amusing book. I mean it, it really is. But it isn't the literary Olympus many claim it to be.  Holden Caulfield is immature, crude, lying and hypocritical, yet he's also caring, sincere, open, and likable. All of that blends to make him also charming  The story reads similarly to Virginia Woolf's experimental fiction, &quot;To the Lighthouse&quot;, though more focused, not as severe in its wandering, and less of a bore because Salinger is a better writer than Woolf.  Did I say &quot;less&quot; of a bore&quot; than &quot;To the Lighthouse&quot;? Yeah.  Holden really is completely likable; the kind of kid you'd want to hug every time you saw him, but he rambles and much of that rambling is unrelated to anything of importance, much as is the case in &quot;To the Lighthouse&quot;. &quot;Catcher in the Rye&quot; is a fast, easy read, but there are still times when I just felt like putting it down for good, because it too often becomes little more than a featureless droning, much like &quot;To the Lighthouse&quot;.  Salinger had a spectacular ability to build a character with just a few lines of dialogue. There is a host of personalities within the covers of &quot;Catcher in the Rye&quot; and though we rarely get more than a glimpse of each we come away feeling that we know far more about them than is included in the written word.  Holden is both remarkably perceptive and remarkably naive. This keeps the narrative interesting where it would otherwise bog down again.  Emotional content is most often flat, because Holden has a too frequent habit of flat out telling us how depressing this and that and him and her and . . . and . . . and, is. It's one thing after another, told without any feeling, and by three quarters of the way through the reader starts thinking, &quot;so what&quot;. There ARE parts that will make you stop and think, &quot;wow&quot; in a subdued, even melancholy way, but don't expect to have to set the book aside while you wait for the tears to dry up. It isn't going to happen.  It's difficult in the extreme to find a discussion  You'll find a good-sized handful of things that WILL make you stop and say, &quot;Hmmmmm.&quot;, but if you're expecting to have your beliefs regarding self, life, societal woes, or the fundamental goodness/evil of mankind challenged then you're reading the wrong book. That isn't going to happen, either.  Is &quot;Catcher in the Rye&quot; a great book? A work of unparalleled literary genius? Heck no. As with Woolf's  &quot;To the Lighthouse&quot; it's missing far too much to even be considered a story. But it's pretty good, and I'm glad that I took the time to read it.	2001-01-19
US	50146752	R1NNPIDG35KTA9	0451458141	200427283	Endurance (A Stardoc Novel)	Books	4	17	18	N	N	Best book in the series.	While Cherijo's commitment to &quot;do no harm&quot; remains firmly in place, she takes a step away from being the Doctor Saint. And for those of you who (like me) detest Reever, there's a treat or two in store for you.   Throughout the Stardoc series Cherijo gets dumped on more often than a city landfill. Usually she mouths some tough talk, then forgives the dumper and pretends nothing ever happened. In &quot;Endurance&quot; she's been beaten into a corner and if she wants out she's got to fight back. She's also gotten a little tired of being the constant dumpee and starts to do something about it. What does she do? Oh no, I couldn't possibly tell you that. That'd be cheating, but you won't be disappointed.  As another reviewer mentioned, the story IS violent, but consider two things. First, the nature of the HskTsk. They're brutal; feared throughout the known universe because of their unrelenting and usually unprovoked violence. They don't just rob a colony when they raid, they murder every living sentient they find. Second, look at the violence in real life prisons. The level of desperation is generally far less than is the case on the HskTsk slave colony. Keep those two things in mind, and you'll see that if anything Viehl held back, including only the violence required to advance the story. To have included less would have been a disservice to the story and to Veihl's readers.  After reading the scene with Cherijo and Noarr alone on his ship I'm wondering if Cherijo might have a sister, and if so, where can I email her! Oh, right, she's an only child. Curses.  The depth of &quot;Endurance&quot; exceeds both of the previous Stardoc novels. The relationships are firmer and more complex, the setting is generally more vivid, the drama is more intense. What does that mean? It means that &quot;Endurance&quot; is Viehl's best book to date. I found myself staying up till the wee hours of the morning, not willing to set it aside until I was too tired to keep reading. Itook it to work with me. I made my wife drive when we went out. I read it every spare second I had. I wanted to know right that very second what came next, and next and next. This went on until I'd read the very last word.	2001-01-19
US	50146752	R3L0LOTKZXH961	0671798561	628570269	Nevermore	Books	3	1	3	N	N	A nice poke at Poe	Before reading Harold Schechter's &quot;Nevermore&quot; you may want to check that a couple of things are in your possession. The first is a liking, or even a love, of Poe. The second is the ability to view him and his body of work with a sense of humor. If you lack either, place the book back on the shelf and hurry on to considering something else. If you possess both, clutch &quot;Nevermore&quot; firmly in your sweating grasp and make your way to the counter.<br />The story seems a parody of Poe, not an effort to nail his life down. I take it to be filled with (thankfully) subtle humor regarding his person, his body of work, and his often needlessly meandering and overblown style of writing. This is what Mr. Schechter told me, &quot;When I decided to write it as a novel and began doing it in Poe's voice, I discovered that there was something pricelessly comic in Poe's pompodity, particularly when juxtaposed with Davy's downhome crudeness.&quot;<br />As the story opens Schechter doesn't hit quite close enough to his intentions. The result is that things are a little jarring. This problem quickly disappears.<br />Now and then he hits TOO closely and I found myself thinking, &quot;Will you just shut up and get on with the story!&quot; Just like reading Poe.<br />Overall, Schechter does an amazing job of approximating Poe's patterns, mannerisms and diction. But, it's easily seen that Schecter held back in his imitation of Poe's style. He tossed in a goodly number of words that were bound to send some readers scurrying for their dictionary, but not to the degree that Poe was guilty of the same crime. Ditto on foreign terms.<br />        As regards the use of italicized words. If anything, that too is done more lightly than in Poe's own writing. Poe was far guiltier of the same offense. Schechter generally used italics to better affect than Poe did, too.<br />The character of Crockett comes across as a man who intentionally plays up his backwoods mannerisms, partly to hide a genuine lack of sophistication, partly to make his intelligence more apparent by its contrast. Just like Schecter isn't trying to outright duplicate Poe's style, he isn't trying to nail down Poe's or Crockett's actual personas but the gist of their perceptions in the American historical mythology.<br />As for the meat of the story, the mystery itself is only partially successful. It starts out weakly, but from there gets better. It did throw me off a couple of times when I was certain that I knew what was about to happen. I'm not sure that hardcore Mystery fans will find the book to their liking unless they also meet the criteria I laid out in my opening paragraph.<br />What seemed obvious to me was that the story (and with it the mystery) was secondary to the fairly humorous play on Poe's ego and style. Mr. Schechter confirmed this, saying, &quot;The real heart of the book for me was the interplay between the two male characters--a la LETHAL WEAPON or that sort of buddy-movie.&quot;<br />        For those who enjoyed &quot;Nevermore&quot;, look forward to Schechter's next novel. It's titled &quot;The Hum Bug&quot; and teams Poe with P.T. Barnum. As amusing as the Poe/Crockett teaming was, this one should leave it in the dust. P.T. was every bit as self-absorbed as Poe. The two should mix like oil and flame. <br />If I were rating &quot;Nevermore&quot; purely on story I'd give it 2 stars. But it's more than that, and I'm betting that the follow up book will be even better.	2001-01-11
US	50146752	R2Q2TMC23ZMVJK	0345432258	130373336	Hero in the Shadows (Drenai Tales, Book 9)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Great pacing. Great character depth.	Gemmell does a great job of developing characters without sacrificing pacing. He kind of cheats to do it, but since he keeps things interesting I won't complain.  He piles on the exposition, but (and here's the cheat) he makes it read like an alternate narrative, tossing in a dose of action and another of dialogue. As with all exposition, the real story still stops dead, but things are usually kept so lively and engrossing that it doesn't matter.  The main story doesn't even get moving until about halfway through the book, but it isn't a problem. All the little backstory developments (and this is where a lot of that exposition comes in) catch the reader and carry him along. This is partly a result of the snappy pacing, but equally due to excellent character development. In each scene, and even in the exposition, we get glimpses into what motivates the characters, what they think, what they feel. While the Gray Man could probably carry the story, he doesn't. Gemmel has created a host of compelling characters. While you may find yourself having a favorite (for me it was Yu Yu Liang) it's unlikely that you'll find yourself thinking, &quot;I wish this part was over and he'd get back to the part about so-and-so.&quot;	2000-12-19
US	50146752	R1XS1HIE7GHVJ2	0886778921	359434174	Child of Flame (Crown of Stars, Vol. 4)	Books	4	11	13	N	N	The most exciting book in the series, so far.	&quot;Child of Flame&quot; is an excellent novel.  We're taken in directions and into situations that are nothing like anything that's come before, yet fit their places and fulfill their roles with classic Elliott perfection. This alone adds a measure of excitement to the story. Add to that that &quot;Child of Flame&quot; is also the fastest paced and none of the others can touch it as far as being a pure gripping read. As for quality, I still pick &quot;King's Dragon&quot; as number one in the series, but it's also one of my all-time favorite books, so I have some bias, there.<br /> Here are my gripes. Kate too often falls back on cliches; such as, she uses &quot;fast and furious&quot; repeatedly. Other phrases are repeated in reference to the same object over a very short span.  There's also a problem with some run on exposition, but not to the degree that &quot;Burning Stone&quot; suffers.<br /> Narrative voice is inconsistent, but this isn't completely bad, since I thought the stand in narrator was awesome.  A larger problem is the sub-plot involving Hugh. It's well written, no doubt about that, but it's also become an item void of suspense; monotonous. We know from the outset that no matter what Hugh does,  he will come out of it smelling, not like a rose, but like an entire field full of them.<br /> Are the problems I mentioned above  nothing but my own green-eyed monster's triumphal cheering over Kate's showing her mortality. I sit here indignantly shouting, &quot;No!&quot;, and how very untrusting of you to doubt my motives. The goddess has a human side. Even she is subject to the occasional flub. The rest of us should be so imperfect.	2000-11-30
US	50146752	R1468673TX3IOD	0446608858	679570720	Vengeance of Dragons (The Secret Texts Book 2)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Best book in the series.	I put off reading &quot;Vengeance of Dragons&quot;for about three months, because I had already read &quot;Courage of Falcons&quot; and knew much of what was going to happen. It was one of the least wise reading decisions I've ever made. I love this book. LOVE it. Cover to cover. More than being exciting, it's writing at such a high level that most authors never attain it. &quot;Vengeance of Dragons&quot; is easily my favorite book and the series, and one of my favorite books period. I read very few novels a second time, but I have every intention of visiting this one again, and most likely again after that.	2000-11-15
US	50146752	RXNMRE9I40I02	0898798213	430969168	The 38 Most Common Fiction Writing Mistakes	Books	4	2	5	N	N	Simple and direct	This isn't a perfect book, experienced writers will find things to disagree with, but it's still darn good. It avoids writer-speak in any form, so is easily understood by even the least experienced writer. No book will take one or one's work from horrid to perfection. But a new writer can take &quot;The 38 Most Common Fiction Writing Mistakes&quot; and follow his own manuscript point by point and come out with a greater understanding of the craft and a better piece of work for the effort. Those more familiar with the craft will find plenty of good refresher info, and only a few things that they'll want to disregard.	2000-11-05
US	50146752	RRFIAVHN6BQ9Y	073820031X	281969211	The Writer's Legal Companion: The Complete Handbook For The Working Writer, Third Edition	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Knowledge really is power	Aside from writing every day and knowing his craft like a master, the best thing any writer can do for himself is to understand writing as a business. &quot;The Writer's Legal Companion&quot; is an excellent tool to get you started down that road.<br />You don't have to wonder at what will happen when you get an offer. You don't have to guess at what this clause and that one means, or what your rights are. You don't have to blindly put all your faith in an agent's say so on what is good and what is bad. The information you need to make confident and informed decisions on your own career is right here.<br />Do yourself a favor. Become an informed writer. Keep a copy of &quot;The Writer's Legal Companion&quot; on your reference shelf.	2000-11-05
US	50146752	R13OSBD5J61HXV	0385480016	980380074	Bird by Bird: Some Instructions on Writing and Life	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Better than &quot;Writing Down the Bones&quot;	Straightforward and humorous inspiration. Lamott is honest and isn't afraid to be a little ugly. If you read it once you'll likely read it again.  However, this isn't a &quot;How to Write&quot; book. If you're looking for writing instruction, there are better choices. If you want to know that you aren't alone in your quirky writing life, pick this book up.	2000-11-04
US	50146752	RF8SO9F35IPAO	0446673978	361175118	Courage of Falcons (Secret Texts)	Books	4	13	17	N	N	Awesome finale	I enjoyed Holly's previous work, and Seven Fingered Fat Girl is still my favorite Lisle Character (From, &quot;Bones of the Past&quot;), but &quot;The Secret Texts&quot; story is so much richer. The characters are fuller, the world is more complex. The villains in &quot;Courage of Falcons&quot; are as deep as any of the heros. Better, they aren't intelligent for two and a half novels, only to become suddenly stupid as book three reaches the last hundred or so pages. Many authors do a great job of creating tension. Not many can maintain it for long periods without it wearing on the reader. Holly Lisle does this better than anyone I can think of. The ending is wonderful, and leaves us wondering if this is really the end of this conflict.	2000-10-17
US	50146752	RMYYNZJUN8VIS	0451457935	705704096	Beyond Varallan (Stardoc II)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A book you'll make time to read	\\"Beyond Varallan\\" is a very fast and compelling read. Each time I picked it up I wanted to keep reading till I got to the end.<br />For anyone who's read Viehl's first novel \\"Stardoc\\", what really comes through is her development as a writer from there to \\"Beyond Varallan\\".<br />In \\"Stardoc\\" the conflicts were mainly person to person, verbal and emotional. \\"Beyond Varallan\\" has a healthy dose of that type of conflict, too, but what really makes this a faster read (even though it's a longer book) is the frequent action. As with the first novel, \\"human\\" interactions are frequent, realistic and absorbing.<br />In \\"Stardoc's\\" early going the story is slowed by a heavy dose of futurisms. \\"Beyond Varalon\\" has no hint of this, using such terms sparingly and making them seem a natural part of the story. <br />Though \\"Stardoc\\" was a very personal story, emotional content was often flat. This is partially a failing of first person narrative in that so much that could be shown in third person must be told, instead. \\"Beyond Varallan\\" has the same first person difficulty in this, but Viehl works around it far better and far more consistently this time around.<br />In \\"Beyond Varallan\\" I noticed a few things that I, as did another reviewer, thought of as inconsistencies. S.L. Veihl very kindly discussed them with me. In all cases but one it was me who was in error and in that one case there are things coming up that may prove me wrong anyway. The explanations are within the story if we pay attention. Just remember, Veihl is a devious writer. Things that seem unimportant as they come up often become key later. <br />There is a real ending, but it isn't solid. Important loose ends are tied up, but a new set is dangled in front of us, leaving a cliffhanger. I love it, though it may drive some readers nutty with frustration.<br />We poor abused readers must brace ourselves, because cliffhanger endings are becoming more common. Kate Elliott and Holly Lisle have both done them very well and recently. Others have tried and been less successful.	2000-08-20
US	50146752	R14DSQ2YOJJDSM	0451457730	898233857	Stardoc	Books	4	6	6	N	N	What a fantastic first novel.	S.L. Viehl's very personal 1st person style causes things to develop more slowly than the same story would in 3rd person, but also more intimately.  We aren't just observing Cherijo Grey Veil's journey, we're taking it with  her.<br /> Viehl has a talent for writing confrontations. Several long  term conflicts develop quickly, ensuring that the story's tension never  flags for long.  Some of the plot twists are very clever. Several times  I thought I knew what came next, only to be surprised, then surprised again  at what natural extensions of the story this twists really were. It was all  done very smoothly and convincingly.  The rape scene was one instance  when 3rd person could not have conveyed so much. We're right inside of  Cherijo's head, experiencing everything as it happens.<br /> My great  complaint about this story is the proliferation of futuristic object names  in the early going. This is on the editor's head though, not S.L Viehl's.  Why? Because the editor kept pushing for more of this. Thankfully they  reached a compromise and once the story gets going this is no longer a  problem.<br /> I also wish Cherijo cared more for herself. She's  frustratingly accepting of way too much. Considering her background, and  what a piece of dung her father is this is probably an unrealistic  expectation on my part. S.L. Viehl did tell me that Cherijo develops  significantly over the next couple of books. This can only add intensity to  an already compelling story.	2000-08-13
US	50146752	R22S9XHDE48NIF	0446607460	942586499	Diplomacy of Wolves (Secret Texts)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	I'd love to find this series in a single volume.	The opening of &quot;Diplomacy of Wolves&quot; is fast and dark. I love that. It's darker and more tense than any of her other work.<br /> Holly's development as a writer can be seen easily, here. In her &quot;Arhel&quot;  novels (her first series, from about ten years ago) character motivation  was sometimes sketchy. In the two &quot;Secret Texts&quot; novels I've read  so far, that isn't the case.<br /> Holly's first great strength as an  author is her ability to create and maintain tension. Her second great  strength is her use of humor. While her books cannot be considered funny  she manages to work in some of the simplest and most effective humor I've  ever found in Fantasy. Third is her avoidance of preaching. That isn't to  say she doesn't have her points to make, or that her characters don't, but  we aren't mugged with them.<br /> She does a great job of leaving the  ending of &quot;Diplomacy of Wolves&quot; open. Rather than annoying me it  made the next book that much more appealing.<br /> What do I hate about  this book? I hate that I read &quot;Courage of Falcons&quot; first! ::Thunk  on head::	2000-06-26
US	50146752	R3QROZYG2J3U8A	0671876546	927658961	Mind of the Magic	Books	4	9	9	N	N	A very fast, exciting read.	&quot;Mind of the Magic&quot; starts out quickly with a small conflict, then another, and again another, leading us toward the central story. Then things slow, or seem to, but one of those early bits of conflict quietly  holds in place. It keeps reminding us that there's more happening under the  surface, that something bigger is lurking, waiting for Faia to become  complacent.<br /> As in the previous &quot;Arhel&quot; books, Holly's  style is very clean. She never allows the story to lose focus. We learn  what we need to about the characters and the world, but never to the point  where gaining this knowledge pulls us from the meat of the story.<br /> I  became a zombie reading &quot;Mind of the Magic.&quot; In fact, in 4 days I  read this and &quot;Fire in the Mist,&quot; finishing them in two sittings  each. <br /> For me, the real gem of this story is the conflict between  the Servants and Faia's party. Such horrid, repulsive men, hiding their  thieving and murdering behind a mask of Holy self-righteousness. This is  followed closely by  Faia's visions from within the emeshest, seeing the  futility of what she'd done.	2000-06-11
US	50146752	R2TR1SYH043U9S	0671721321	707367141	Fire in the Mist	Books	4	7	10	N	N	Very suspenseful and fast moving.	In Faia's early trials Holly Lisle nails what it's like to be alone, and not only friendless, but surrounded by enemies. Then, as Faia finally gains the smallest bit of acceptance . . .<br /> This book really flies. The  farther in we go, the faster the story moves, right up to the end. In fact,  it went so fast, I was sitting here screaming, &quot;You can't end it  already! What about ____!  You didn't tell me about _____!&quot;<br /> The  book answers all the questions it raises in relation to the plot, but it  left many unanswered questions about side issues and more about the world  of Arhel. Questions I would love to see answered in other books. Like the  back story that explains where &quot;Arhel&quot; came from. I know it's  &quot;Our Hell&quot; (really, I'm not making it up!) but wondering why is  driving me buggy.	2000-06-09
US	50146752	R34PXYRKBI8XS7	0839829345	433213121	Triangle (Star Trek)	Books	5	5	9	N	N	One of the best Star Trek novels	This is a prime Star Trek novel. Easily one of the best. The plot is direct and easy to follow as in all ST novels. But, where most others are thin on character development &quot;Triangle&quot; makes the characters  rich and real and believable. In fact, I can't think of one Star Trek novel  where the authors did a better job of creating emotion than Marshak and  Culbreath do in &quot;Triangle.&quot;What's more surprising is that this is  one of the shortest ST novels. I read these mainly because they are fast  easy reads, they're purely entertainment for me. I therefore let them  evaporate from my memory. I've read almost 50 of them and this is one of  few that has stuck in my head, even though I read it in the late 80's.	2000-05-31
US	50146752	R1WW7R39LEDYXE	0441005489	294268861	Redwall: 30th Anniversary Edition	Books	3	3	9	N	N	Great for preteens. Disappointing for adults.	This is very lazy writing. The book is plagued with point of view shifts, author intrusion, needless exposition, and the hand of God is at work throughout the novel, allowing just the help the heros need to be at just the right spot at just the right time at every turn. Most characters have no depth at all, but are simply in place to fulfill a necessary role and  nothing more. The rest are  cliches.   That said, it was at times  entertaining and I think must be an excellent book for preteens.  Unfortunately, most bookstores have it inappropriately placed with adult  Fantasy.  Though the writing really is lazy, this serves a purpose. It  helps the story move along and allows Jacques to focus on the meat of his  tale. Is that an acceptable excuse? In adult Fantasy, no. In novels  intended for preteens, yes.   While older readers will certainly notice  that things are amiss with Jacques's writing, younger readers, having less  reading experience/sophistication, won't. And though the characters truly  lack anything resembling depth or originality, they fit their roles  wonderfully and mesh together just right. Plus, for preteen readers there  are few cliches. Things we see as trite are still fresh to them.  If I  could, I'd give this 2 stars for the grown ups, and 4 for the kiddies.	2000-05-02
US	50146752	R313U3N7LPWX22	0671721607	262068631	Bones of the Past	Books	4	12	12	N	N	An author with an original style.	This story is wonderful. The plotting and characterization unfold with freshness and originality, no opportunity to create tension is wasted, and emotional content never seems contrived. Seven Fingered Fat Girl is a  marvelous character. In the early going she often carries the book, keeping  the reader compelled to read on, just to see what will happen to her and  Four Winds Band. Choufa and the tale of the sharsha frequently serve the  same role. If not for these characters and plot lines holding my interest  so keenly, those involving Medwind and Roba would have had me setting the  book aside soon after opening it. Until the characters come together as a  group, about halfway through, these last two character's and their tales  are just plain boring.  Holly Lisle does a  fantastic job of limiting descriptive passages and time spent on scene  setting. But these otherwise wonderful traits have a drawback. Readers  unfamiliar with this world may feel lost early on. This sense of `where am  I, and where am I being lead' is compounded by two things. First, there is  no obvious story question. Nothing that lets the reader say, &quot;I wonder  if ..........&quot; and points the way to the story's end goal. Second,  Lisle's odd mix of an `ancient' world coupled with modern thinking and  terminology (like &quot;nested subroutines&quot;) takes time to get used  to.  Her ability to maintain a driving level of tension  is wonderful, and she isn't shy about including compelling and unusual  subject matter (for a work of Fantasy)  like; mass child abuse, abandonment  and neglect; and adolescent sex. She does an excellent job of showing us  what's happening in these cases, and throughout the story, without ever  resorting to boring passages of exposition. Her knack for drawing emotions  from her readers is good, but inconsistent.	2000-03-26
US	50146752	RODRUIXO912ZE	0140440046	295639784	Candide: Or Optimism (Penguin Classics)	Books	2	5	17	N	N	Too far past its intended audience.	Timeliness, being crucial to any piece of social commentary, has stolen the best parts of &quot;Candide&quot; and hidden them away from the average modern reader. Voltaire's humor, already delivered dryly, is lost to the  same culprit, as is his sarcasm. Once stripped of those crucial elements  &quot;Candide&quot; reads like the outline of a potentially great tale. But  it cannot be considered a story, too much is lacking.  1. The tale is  90% exposition. Rather than showing us dear Candide's many wondrous  travels, letting us come along, allowing us to feel the events unfolding,  we are summarily told.  2. Though the plot takes many turns, some of  them clever, there is no art to the writing. We are simply, and again  summarily, hurried from place to place, twist to twist.  3. There is no  character development. All we ever know of Candide is that he is naive,  that he does not learn from his experience, and that he has some truly  horrid luck. There is nothing to make us care about him, or any of the  characters. At most we say, `Oh, that's too bad.' But we say it without  feeling or concern.  4. Of the final 10%, nine is dialogue. In this we  get our only glimpse of Voltaire's intelligence. But as pleasing as that is  to see, it cannot make up for the artless way he placed his words. Each  character, regardless of upbringing or social standing, speaks in exactly  the same manner as every other character, and I suspect that they all speak  in a manner that was exactly as Voltaire may have spoken.  The  remaining 1% is spent, poorly, on some very minimal scenes. He spends so  little time on actual scenes, that it seems he must have considered them a  great inconvenience. Voltaire gives us no more than is required, which is  wonderful in any descriptive passage, including the setting of any scene,  but it's all done just as artlessly as the exposition and dialogue.   The ending is good. There is a little moralizing, telling us to look to our  own lives, but it's done with subtlety. This is the one place Voltaire's  simple style pays off.  This book is best suited to those of simple and  undeveloped literary minds. Those who know anything about writing or good  literature can find many better books, under and outside of the  &quot;Classic&quot; umbrella.	2000-03-08
US	50146752	R1IVMLU210Y302	0380795272	488009353	Krondor the Betrayal:: Book One of the Riftwar Legacy	Books	2	4	5	N	N	Lazy writing. A horrible book.	This story could have been incredible. All the elements are in place. Instead it's simply bad writing, cover to cover.   Feist took laziness to new depths with this book. None of the characters is anything more than  window dressing. Feist gives us nothing to care about in them, and we  don't. The dialogue is bromidic and the protagonists are all windbags.  Worse, dialogue is used as a ploy for working in mile high piles of  exposition and it's often done when the reader doesn't even need the  information imparted, yet. Characters are introduced for no reason other  than to get the protagonists information, bringing us more poorly disguised  exposition. Feist doesn't even try to disguise what he's doing. In all such  instances the facts divulged to the reader could have been worked in more  skillfully and at a later time (when it was more relevant to the plot).       The villains are invariably stupid. One, a trained assassin who trailed  the party for hundreds of miles undetected, attacks three of the  protagonists all by himself, head on. He of course dies without  accomplishing his goal. Others, again trained assassins, stand in the  middle of a road talking, rather than hide in the nearby rocks and brush,  while they wait to ambush the same three protagonists.      The actual  fight scenes are equally inane. Three men, one of them is not a trained  fighter and is a very poor magician, repeatedly take on four to six bad  guys, always assassins and fighter types, and win. The protagonists, though  they plod along on horse back and make no attempt at stealth, or are in the  open when they spot their would-be assailants, always have the element of  surprise, even when they accidently stumble upon the absurdly ineffective  men sent to hunt/ambush them(again noting that these men are always  supposedly trained assassins and fighters). Though one of the protagonists  may be already wounded, and the three of them are outnumbered, they  prevail.   Things happen for no reason, a ruby is stolen from a  magician the protagonists don't even know and without explanation the good  squire, already returning to the king with gravely important news, becomes  obsessed, not with the stone's return or discovering who stole it, but in  finding out why it was stolen. Duh. One, it's a giant ruby, two we all know  that in trite Fantasy stories like Feist's giant rubies owned by any  magician are invariably magic themselves (as turns out to be the case  here).  The protagonists meet with only token resistance at every turn.  Though there is myriad opportunity for Feist to insert real tension in the  story he always takes the easy, pre-writing 101 path; the bad guys are  stupid; the bad guys are inept fighters; the bad guys relent and simply let  our heros pass unmolested.	2000-02-14
US	50146752	R5PX1GSUY2MP7	0886778131	65884366	The Burning Stone (Crown of Stars, Vol. 3)	Books	3	4	15	N	N	Gay Fiction that almost passes as mainstream Fantasy.	Kate Elliot again has woven myriad plots into a complex but easily understood whole. But in &quot;Burning Stone&quot; she often spends too much time giving very detailed descriptions of the insignificant. This  slows the story too much in too many places.        She is not and has  never been a master of characterization. She gives just enough about each  character that we can understand them and see them as unique, but not quite  enough that we can care about them. She does make us care, but she does it  through the actions of her antagonists, each of them truly detestable. She  makes it easy to hate these characters, therefore making it easy to care  for those they plot against.  In all of her novels she obsessively  works in some aspect of homosexuality. In most it's only hinted at, in  &quot;Burning Stone&quot; it is told almost graphically. Yet she continues  to only hint at the physical expression of all heterosexual relationships.  Every male in &quot;Burning Stone&quot; is either homosexual or bisexual,  while all the women are straight. The homosexuality is not in any way  important to even a single plot, but is purely gratuitous. Her efforts at  Political Correctness are wonderful, but they destroy her credibility.	2000-02-08
US	50146752	R393D7YCXZNFYB	0886775132	211899427	Jaran	Books	3	2	11	N	N	Too much like Jean Auel, well written for Gay Fiction	In style and characterization Miss Elliott's 'Jaran' is very much like Jean Auel's novels. It moves very slowly. Much of the action is only hinted at and the best part of the novel, the Chapalii plot against Tess  Sorensen's brother Charles, seems nothing more than an excuse to place Tess  in Jaran lands and have her meet Ilya. As in all Elliott novels she makes  her obsession with homosexuality clear.	2000-01-31
