US	50142550	R2L54TWAB1EP5X	0199264589	379576568	The Johannine Corpus in the Early Church	Books	5	36	36	N	N	An Essential Corrective to Current Johannine Thought	Over the course of the last several years, Chuck Hill has emerged as one of best conservative patristic scholars around.  This particular book is the fruit of extensive study and scholarly battles regarding the reception of the Johannine corpus by the early church.  It is a book that in many respects will demand engagement from those interested in Johannine studies within the scholarly world. <br /> <br />Many average evangelicals are blissfully ignorant of the direction Johannine studies have gone in.  The accepted paradigm for decades within mainstream NT scholarship has been that the Apostle John wrote none of the NT books traditionally attributed to him.  Further, the very gospel (John's) that evangelicals in particular often adore the most is the same gospel that, according to most scholars, was considered highly gnostic by the early church, and this was the reason for its very late canonicity.  According to this paradigm, 1 John was written after the Fourth Gospel to provide a correct interpretation of the Fourth Gospel in order to redeem it from the gnostics, and this is the only reason it got into the canon.  Raymond Brown, in particular, has been the crucial advocate of this position, and his paradigm has become the dominant interpretation of how the Johannine corpus came into being. <br /> <br />In this book, Hill accomplishes a number of things.  Most importantly, he goes a long way towards setting Brown's paradigm on its head.  Hill convincingly demonstrates that not only was the Fourth Gospel embraced by the orthodox church prior to Irenaeus, but also that the gnostics were far less enthusiastic about the Fourth Gospel than Brown and others have conjectured.  If Hill is correct, then not only is the prevailing paradigm wrong about the acceptance of the Fourth Gospel by the early church, it is also wrong about the purpose behind the writing of 1 John. <br /> <br />Unlike prevailing scholarship, Hill takes the early church witness seriously in formulatinghis proposals.  It is an accepted practice within NT and patristic scholarship circles to dismiss the truthfulness of Irenaeus as it relates to his relevant musings concerning John's writings and their purpose.  Thankfully, Hill does not embrace such a cavalier attitude toward Irenaeus.  As is the usual Hill style, the early church citations and analysis in this book is thorough, careful, and responsible.  Hill is smart enough to know that a proposal that takes issue with the accepted thinking demands exhaustive documentation and formulation.  This is clearly achieved here.  The reader will be particulary informed by Hill's chronological treatment of the progression of thought in Johannine studies that have gotten us to this point.  Very informative and succinct. <br /> <br />With prevailing scholarship dismissing the possibility of Johannine authorship of the Johannine corpus, coupled with the increasing agnosticism regarding who John is writing against in the Johannine epistles in particular (as well as the Fourth Gospel), much of traditional orthodox thinking regarding the Johannine corpus has been completely undermined.  Most evangelicals are completely unaware of any of this, or even that a number of evangelical scholars have bought into certain aspects of this thinking.  Hill provides a needed antidote, and brings us back to a place where the acceptance of the Johannine literature can be examined from a position of evidence rather than convenient speculation.  Though one wishes that Hill himself was a bit less coy regarding his own views about Johannine authorship, this book takes an important first step in responsibly advancing a conservative position that takes the early church witness seriously, and challenges the accepted paradigm with intellectual integrity.  This should prove to be a standard evangelical work in Johannine studies for years to come, and is highly recommended for NT professors, seminary students, and pastors.	2005-06-03
US	50142550	R14EYY71PBWGDR	0521585600	247963675	The Cambridge Companion to Karl Barth (Cambridge Companions to Religion)	Books	4	30	31	N	N	A Good Reference Source on Barth	Any book that attempts to summarize the thought of Barth in 300 pages is faced with an impossible task.  Barth's thought was so exhaustive and trickled down into so many areas of theology and life that no summary can do complete justice to Barth.  Nevertheless, this book puts forth a good effort toward that end. <br /> <br />Webster has assembled many of the heavy hitters in Barth scholarship to tackle various key areas of Barth's thought.  Trevor Hart provides a good chapter on Barth's view of revelation.  Nigel Biggar's contribution on ethics is also good. <br /> <br />The brewing scholarly battle between Graham Ward and Bruce McCormack concerning possible similarities between Barth and Derrida regarding language is not hinted at in the book.  The reader only gets Ward's side of it, in which he argues that Barth's contention that human language is inherently incapable of describing the \\"wholly other\\" God finds a home in the later thought of Derrida.  McCormack is on record saying that any similarities between Barth and Derrida are superficial, and in my view, McCormack is closer to the truth on this.  However, this book does not present McCormack's position, and thus may very well give the reader the impression that Ward's position is the accepted position on this question within Barth scholarship.  It is not. <br /> <br />In addition, one would have hoped for a more in-depth treatment regarding Barth's relationship to Kantian philosophy.  Given Barth's crucial importance chronologically in coming onto the theological scene in Europe at a time when the Kantian-influenced theologies of Schleiermacher and Ritschl reigned supreme, an understanding of Barth's intense reaction against both strains strikes me as critical in putting Barth into context and assessing him within this context.  While Kant is mentioned more than once in this book, it is only in skeletal form, and this is a weakness.  Putting Barth into the proper historical context is absolutely essential inassessing his importance, and this book could have been better at doing that. <br /> <br />But overall, the contributions in here are scholarly, well documented, and informative for someone looking to gain a good working knowledge of Barth.  Evangelicals need to contend with Barth responsibly, and we have been mostly neglectful in doing this.  One way to do this is to read a book like this which attempts to thoughtfully interact with Barth from a mostly non-evangelical perspective.  As such, I commend it to discerning evangelicals.	2005-06-03
US	50142550	R15LQ7H16P4I8O	0802825451	345093262	The Book Of Proverbs: Chapters 1-15. (New International Commentary on the Old Testament)	Books	5	53	53	N	N	The Definitive Evangelical Commentary on Proverbs	Bruce Waltke is an outstanding OT scholar, and one of the most respected.  This 2 volume commentary on Proverbs is exhaustive and scholarly.<br /><br />Waltke displays a brilliant command of OT narrative structures throughout this commentary.  The average person picking up a Bible and reading Proverbs can easily conclude that Proverbs is little more than an extensive list of random sayings devoid of any real order or structure.  Not so.  Waltke repeatedly demonstrates how the chiastic structures that are found all over the place in Proverbs provide great order and reveal deep insights into what the writer was doing.  Waltke's command of wisdom literature as a literary genre is also impressive, and adds \\"wisdom\\" to his commentary.<br /><br />One can certainly read Proverbs and gain many insights without reading Waltke's commentary.  But Waltke does a fantastic job in showing the structure of Proverbs and how its contents integrate with the rest of the Bible, particularly the OT.  Waltke labored over this commentary for years, and the painstaking scholarship that went along with this is obvious from cover to cover.  While a working knowledge of Hebrew would be a big help in digesting this commentary, even those with no training in the Hebrew language can still profit from the many insights Waltke provides.  Pastors in particular should get this commentary, even pastors who aren't Hebrew scholars.  Proverbs is a profound but too often misunderstood book.  Waltke provides reliable and insightful guidance to the pastor who wants to responsibly preach out of Proverbs with the desire to edify his flock.  Highly recommended.	2005-06-03
US	50142550	RAJ70R4Z0I6J	0875522637	453373033	The Doctrine of God (A Theology of Lordship)	Books	5	51	53	N	N	Very Good Indeed	John Frame has delivered us a very big book addressing an infinitely bigger topic - the Doctrine of God.  It is a book that is thorough in its coverage, clear in its language and thought, and organized in its presentation.  All of this is important since Frame's methodology is unconventional to the point where some academic controversy has ensued - though most readers, I suspect, will not notice one way or the other.  It is a heady read in spots, but is a book that is much needed and worthy of serious perusal. <br /> <br />Frame properly mentions early on that the Protestant Reformation did not really touch on the area of Theology Proper that much.  The Reformation focused on other theological loci such as soteriology and ecclesiology, but left much of the medieval understanding of Theology Proper fairly intact.  Therefore, Frame's book, along with some other books that have come out recently, really represent the first serious attempt to apply Semper Reformanda to the Doctrine of God, and it is an effort that is long overdue.  Frame's considerable interaction with non-evangelical views of God in this book amplify the fact that evangelical Protestantism has, for way too long, failed to develop a distinctly Protestant understanding of God that sets a reliable standard against heterodoxy. <br /> <br />In this book, Frame emphasizes the concept of God as covenant Lord, and develops much of the book in accordance with this organizing principle.  While Frame is careful to note that covenant Lordship is not the only legitimate way to organize a Theology Proper, it is nonetheless a compelling approach given its constant theme throughout Scripture.  In fact, Frame convincingly argues that many heterodox attempts to develop a theology of God deliberately avoid this theme because of its obvious threat to the autonomizing of man that so many modern day theologies try to stress.  In this vain, Frame's systematic critique of libertarian free-will and the notion of divine middleknowledge are extremely good.  Frame's sustained focus on the Biblical names of God is quite refreshing in showing how His names are themselves a form of revelation that teach us more about Him.  Frame's discussion of transcendence and immanence draws heavily from Van Til, but is a presentation that is most helpful, and most needed.  Lastly, Frame's interaction with the gender-neutral and 'maleness of God' controversy is both very relevant and substantive.  Frame takes a conservative view on this question, but the reader is comforted by the fact that Frame's presentation is respectfully Biblical in its emphasis, rather than reaking of the kind of hysteria that is typically employed by folks on all sides of this issue who tend to have axes to grind.  Those looking for solid critiques of Barth, Moltmann, Pinnock, McFague and others will find much to chew on here. <br /> <br />Readers who are familiar with Frame's perspectivalism may find some of the early chapters to be a bit redundant, but these chapters are very helpful for those are just beginning to get exposed to Frame's approach.  In addition, those who are well versed in many of Frame's other works will find a bit of duplication here.  Lastly, while many of the appendices are good, a number of them seem off-topic and make an already big book unnecessarily larger. <br /> <br />But overall, this is a very important book that makes significant in-roads in developing a Protestant and strongly Reformed Doctrine of God.  It is a book that forges a careful path of sound theology where God is concerned amidst a forest of competing theological constructions that often leave much to be desired.  Frame has provided the church with a valuable service here.	2004-12-28
US	50142550	R1X2GW4LS5KU73	0875522440	983599941	Perspectives on the Word of God: An Introduction to Christian Ethics	Books	4	13	13	N	N	Good Preview of What's Hopefully Ahead	This book is a short series of lectures given by John Frame at Trinity Evangelical Divinity School back in the late '80s.  Given Frame's intention in the (near?) future to produce a comprehensive Bibliology text (as well as a text on ethics) as part of his Theology of Lordship series, this short book can, I think, be considered a pretty good preview of what Frame is likely to present more exhaustively later. <br /> <br />For those who are versed in Frame's perspectival approach, this book will touch on many familiar themes.  His 'control, authority, and presence' construction is applied to the 'Word of God' and the field of ethics in ways that I suspect will be quite edifying to many readers.   <br /> <br />I think each of the three lectures offers important insights that evangelicals in particular should take note of.  In his first lecture, he explains what he means by the 'Word of God' in ways that persuasively debunk the de minimus ideas that have unfortunately taken hold among certain sections of evangelicalism.  The Word of God is not only the Bible itself, and I think Frame's analysis of this topic will prove enriching to evangelicals.  His second lecture involves examining the 'media' of the Word.  This lecture skillfully discusses the various ways (and various kinds of media) God uses to communicate to us.  Those who have always wondered whether the words of Paul or the Old Testament prophets (or a modern day preacher for that matter) are as divinely authoritative as the words of Jesus Himself will find this lecture stimulating.  The third lecture attempts to relate the Word of God to the field of ethics.  His brief appraisal of secular ethics is penetrating and on the mark, while his Christian ethic is clearly informed by his perspectivalism. <br /> <br />I'm giving this book 4 stars for two basic reasons, one of which is probably unfair.  First, I think the book title is a bit misleading, in that it claims to be an introduction to Christian ethics, yet only one of the three lectures is specifically devoted to discussing ethics.  Now of course, those who are familiar with Frame's perspectivalism will likely say that ethics is not an isolated discipline, and that all three lectures in Frame's scheme necessarily touch upon ethics.  I suppose that's right, but the average reader picking up this short book will likely not understand that right away, if at all.  Secondly, as I mentioned before, this book is likely a foretaste of what's to come in two of Frame's remaining Lordship series books.  As such, this book begs for a comprehensive and rounded out presentation of the issues that it begins to touch upon. <br /> <br />In summary, this is a good book that provides the reader with a gentle introduction to Frame's theological approach, which I consider to be very helpful.  It is hoped by this reader (and student) that Frame will further edify the church by expanding upon the concepts touched upon here in published form in the near future as God permits.	2004-10-16
US	50142550	RTPGTV8J4HR9	1581345674	195556538	The Many Faces of Evil (Revised and Expanded Edition): Theological Systems and the Problems of Evil	Books	5	40	43	N	N	Comprehensive Analysis from an Evangelical Perspective	It is clear from this book that the problem of evil has long been a pressing concern of John Feinberg.  What started out as a doctoral dissertation many years ago has morphed into an effective and mostly comprehensive exploration of this perennial problem from an evangelical perspective.  While I don't agree with everything Feinberg proposes, I do think evangelicals of all theological stripes will be greatly informed by this book. <br /> <br />Among the strengths of the book is Feinberg's interaction with the ideas of non-evangelicals where the problem of evil is concerned.  He effectively and thoughtfully interacts with a number of non-evangelicals as well as skeptics, and this alone is noteworthy.  Feinberg seems to be interested in constructive, yet principled dialogue with those outside his own camp, and as an evangelical, it is hoped by this reader that such dialogue will be reciprocated by theological liberals who claim to be interested in such dialogue. <br /> <br />I also thought that Feinberg's view that the problem of evil is actually a series of problemS of evil is penetrating and really helps the comprehensive treatment of the subject that we see here.  While I might quibble a bit with the degree to which Feinberg attempts to categorize these various problems, and thus arguably diminishes their interrelated nature, I do think this approach does justice to the issue and helps avoid a facile examination that too often plagues evangelical treatments of the subject.  In particular, his 'religious problem of evil', which is really the existential problem of evil, is a valuable and thoughtful addition that evangelical scholarship in the theodicy area has been severely neglectful of.  Feinberg deserves a standing ovation for devoting a solid portion of the book to discussing this aspect of the problem of evil, and it is hoped that other evangelicals will wake up and follow Feinberg's lead whenever they address the problem of evil in their writings, classroom lectures, and conversations with those around them. <br /> <br />I also strongly agree with the contention that one's theology will (and should) greatly influence how a Christian (or anyone for that matter) addresses the existence of evil.  The problem of evil is not an isolated matter that can be addressed in a vacuum.  Our theology should and will greatly inform how we address it, and I think Feinberg is mostly successful in examining how various theological commitments impact on how folks from various theological traditions will handle this particular issue. <br /> <br />The one minor drawback is that in my view, more Biblical exegesis was in order in this book than what I saw.  Feinberg's general opposition to the greater-good defense was just one example of an objection that seemed to be based more on philosophical argumentation than exegetical demonstration.  I have increasingly noticed that comprehensive scholarly works from evangelical authors that seem intended to go beyond the evangelical subculture and gain an audience among non-evangelicals too often downplay the centrality of the authority of Scripture that must continue to define what it means to be an evangelical.  It seems to me that an evangelical work on any topic should be unapologetic in presenting a Biblical argument, since the Bible is (or ought to be) our final authority, even though it is not our lone authority.  It seems to me that too many books like this one seem to put the Bible on the sideline in order to gain some respectability among circles of the academy that don't take the Bible seriously (meaning that they don't consider it to be particularly authoritative) and thus don't take traditional evangelicals seriously.  Well, such an approach strikes me as an unnecessary capitulation, and I fear to some degree that this is what happened with this particular book.  While I greatly appreciate the depth with which Feinberg engages non-evangelical scholarship, what this book needs is a meldingof systematics and exegesis that results in systematics being better informed by Scripture. <br /> <br />But this little soapbox quibble aside, the book is, I think, a valuable contribution to the field of 'theodicy' that evangelicals will greatly profit from.	2004-10-16
US	50142550	R2OGAJZUFMI97L	0830826890	110133467	The Glory of the Atonement: Biblical, Theological & Practical Perspectives	Books	4	38	39	N	N	Very Good, but Regretably Incomplete	This is a tough book for me to review.  I have tremendous respect for the two editors of this book, as well as for Roger Nicole, the scholar whom this book is dedicated to.  I believe they have assembled an impressive group of scholars here who have given us a very good book.  But as I will note below, there are simply too many relevant gaps in the coverage of the Atonement in this book to warrant a 5 star rating. <br /> <br />Hill and James have assembled a formidable collection of scholars to provide contributions to this work, and the quality of their scholarship is not in question in their contributions here.  Many of the articles are very substantive and rigorous.  One major strength of the book is that many of the articles contain thorough and rigorous exegetical analysis, though unfortunately, not all of the pertinent articles do as will be discussed below.  This is not really a beginner level book, though someone unfamiliar with Greek and Hebrew can still profit from many of the articles.  For those who have a working knowledge of the Biblical languages, they will find many of the articles to be quite rigorous and exegetically satisfying.  Carson, Hill, and Nicole in particular all deliver quality articles in this area. <br /> <br />Another strength of the book is its historical analysis.  This is where readers will find the best article in the book, in my view.  Vanhoozer's analysis of the atonement in light of postmodern thought and theology is simply outstanding.  It alone justifies purchasing the book.  But further, the article pertaining to Bavinck's atonement theology is also quite good, and for those looking for something especially complicated but provocative, McCormack's discussion of Barthian approaches to the atonement is also heavyweight reading. <br /> <br />The last section of the book deals with mainly pastoral concerns relating to atonement theology.  Ferguson's article is quite good, as expected, and makes the whole book a very good gift idea for the reader's pastor. <br /> <br />Having said all that, I must point out some notable deficiencies that compel me to a 4 star rating.  My problems with the book do not really pertain to what's covered, but what isn't covered in the book.  The New Perspective is only marginally addressed, mainly by Carson's essay, and even here, it is not really addressed head-on, and certainly not thoroughly.  Further, the open theism phenomenon and its gutting of the atonement is really not addressed at all.  Both of these omissions are quite serious, in my judgment.  Both of these movements have gained a foothold in evangelical circles, and both are likely here to stay to some degree.  It is most unfortunate that in a book that interacts in considerable length with scholars from long ago, scant attention is paid to these two major contemporary movements that both undo the atonement to the degree that they do.  This is a major weakness of the book. <br /> <br />In addition, one will labor quite hard to find a solid defense of the Reformed understanding of the atonement in terms of the extent of the atonement.  In particular, the essay that intends to address 1 John in general, and 1 John 2:2 in particular is quite poor.  It is an essay that focuses on everything except the extent of the atonement, relegating discussion of this critical issue to a mere couple of paragraphs.  Other essays also make passing mention of the extent of the atonement, but as best I could tell, none of the essays are devoted to thoroughly defending and articulating the Reformed understanding in this area.  This oversight is quite amazing, and unfortunate. <br /> <br />So in summary, this book is a good effort that contains a number of very good and challenging contributions.  It was clearly intended to present a positive perspective, instead of thoroughly critiquing dissenters.  As such, while it is a valuable resource that should be purchased and perused, the reader will likely find himself needing to supplement this book with other works in order to fill in the sizable gaps one finds in here.	2004-08-02
US	50142550	R2ZC1M5MT8JEIC	0875525520	960941255	When Shall These Things Be: A Reformed Response to Hyper-Preterism	Books	4	24	29	N	N	An Important, though Imperfect Rebuttal	As will become clear later in this review, I have a considerably negative view of hyper-preterism and not just because I think it's unbiblical.  It is a movement that has gained cyberspace traction over the last number of years now and in my view, represents the worst of what can happen when internet sites are considered to be equally viable in terms of their information and credibility. <br /> <br />This book is a compilation of essays from a mostly Reformed perspective written by a variety of scholars.  As such, some essays are better than others, and the reader should expect to find disagreement between the contributors on matters of eschatology. <br /> <br />By far the best contribution in this book is delivered by Hill.  A person without an in-depth knowledge of eschatology nonetheless has the ability to ask a rather basic but telling question where full preterism is concerned - if Jesus' Second and final Coming occurred in 70 AD, and we are now supposedly living in the new heavens and new earth, why is it that no document we know of written by any Christian around this time ever recognized that such an apolocalyptic event took place?  Is it reasonable to think that a small and mostly undistinguished group of people 2,000 years later have identified what nobody at the time knew about and the historic Christian church for 2,000 years has been unaware of?  According to full preterism, the answer is a resounding 'yes'.  Hill tackles this question with meticulous scholarship and documentation, coupled with painfully probing questions about how such a view could possibly make any sense to anyone.  Hill is especially qualified to deal with this subject matter, as he is widely recognized as one of the best conservative patristic scholars around, and his work on the Johannine Corpus in particular is considered first rate.  Nobody on the full preterist side even remotely possesses the credentials in this area that Hill does, and it shows in his essay.  It is simply a devastating critique. <br /> <br />Kistemaker's contribution is also outstanding.  His essay is a truncated version of his award-winning commentary on the Book of Revelation, and I think it is decisively persuasive in debunking the creative interpretations of the full preterist folks.  Strimple's contribution is also quite good I thought.  Pratt's contribution is good, but could have been better, because while laying out a fairly good approach to how to deal with Old Testament prophecy, he falls a bit short in actually critiquing the full preterist approach on this question.  He gets into this a little bit, but not sufficiently in my view.  As such, his essay struck me as being a bit incomplete. <br /> <br />I'm giving the book 4 stars because the partial preterist contributions in here could have stood for considerable improvement.  The first major essay in the book is Gentry's essay on creedal orthodoxy.  For many full preterists, this is where the rubber meets the road.  They know their view does not conform to the ecumenical creeds of the church, so they not only have to deny the creeds themselves, but they have to find a way to argue that any Christian who places any creedance in the creeds is actually denying Sola Scriptura and basing their Christianity on human tradition.  Gentry in particular has been in the crosshairs of a number of online articles written by full preterists.  Gentry's essay attempts a response, but it was clear that he had succumbed to taking the whole thing a bit personally, and where systematic argument and sober analysis would have hit the spot, the reader will instead find a lot of back and forth accusations that don't really address the serious questions at issue here.  Mathison probably would have been a better pick to tackle the 'denial of Sola Scriptura' question than Gentry.  Further, as I will mention below, the book's look at full preterism is not penetrating as it could and should have been in other areas as well. <br /> <br />Inthe end, I recommend this book as a mostly effective antidote to full preterism.  In my view, full preterism presents us with a revealing object lesson about what happens when eschatology is conducted in isolation - isolation from the Christian church as a whole throughout its history, and isolation from other areas of theology.  Full preterism, by definition, has no Biblically based ecclesiology, and no Biblically based pneumatology.  If the Christian church has been dead wrong for the last 2,000 years about the central event in the consummation of all history, what kind of doctrine of the church are we left with?  If the church has been wrong for its entire history on this question, what are we to say of the ability of the Holy Spirit to preserve his church and lead it in truth and righteousness?  Full preterism, by logical deduction, cannot affirm anything of the kind.  In order to preserve its eschatological imperatives, full preterism places itself in the dubious position of necessarily arguing for an impotent (rather than omnipotent) Holy Spirit, and for a church that does not have Christ as its cornerstone.  Full preterism ought to scare the death out of Christians who believe in the power of the Holy Spirit (as Scripture teaches over and over again) and believe that the church truly is the Bride of Christ and the primary instrument of bringing God's Kingdom to the ends of the earth (which Scripture teaches repeatedly).  Not only can full preterism not affirm these things, but they have to attack everyone (and I do mean everyone) who does.  As a rule, whenever a Christian hears some person or some movement proclaim that they've discovered something essential to true Christianity that the Christian church hasn't known about or has been wrong about for 2,000 years, that should immediately make us suspicious - because anybody can make that claim.  When we further discover that these individuals are coarse and fiercely divisive, are not seminary trained, have difficulty getting published, and exercise enormously irresponsible scholarship to bolster their views, that really ought to seal the deal.  Well, this is a nutshell of the full preterist movement.  Nothing more really needs to be said, in my view.	2004-07-27
US	50142550	R2FTACBBHP5HMB	1575060221	748460612	Beginning Biblical Hebrew	Books	4	29	29	N	N	Quite Good	I am admittedly a bit biased in assessing this book.  I took 2 classes of Hebrew under Dr. Futato where he used this book as his basic Grammar textbook for the courses.  As such, I had the advantage not only of this Grammar, but also having access to its author as he went through it and explained the material as well as his thought process for how he chose to organize the Grammar.<br /><br />This Grammar has some features in it that are lacking in most other Grammars that are so common sense, it makes one hope that Futato's Hebrew Grammar will at least inspire better Grammars by others.  In particular, Futato insists on introducing the student to relevant vocabulary in the lesson prior to when it will be used to teach the subsequent lesson's contents.  In Grammar after Grammar, students find themselves in the position of not only learning new concepts with each lesson, but being exposed to vocabulary not previously learned that is essential to being able to tangibly work with the concepts in that lesson.  This is a very poor methodology of teaching a language, and Futato goes a long way toward rectifying that here.  It's great to see vocabulary relating to the Hiphil (as just one example) in the lesson BEFORE getting exposed to the Hiphil, and then using that vocabulary in the Hiphil lesson to substantively interact with the Hiphil.<br /><br />In addition, emphasis is placed on the majors instead of the minors, and each lesson is very digestable in terms of its length and content.  Where the concepts are more difficult, Futato breaks up the lessons so that the student can absorb the material gradually.  The lessons are well written and non-technical for the most part.  Futato, I think, recognizes that he is writing this Grammar for beginners, and as such, expounds the material at a truly beginner level.  Students, I think, can make considerable progress in this book independently, and that's a credit to how well the Grammar is laid out, and how clear the material is presented.<br /><br />The lesson exercises themselves have elements in them that range from great to so-so.  The translation exercises get progressively more difficult as more lessons are learned, and this keeps the student challenged, but not overwhelmed.  Futato generally does a good job of providing at least some explanation for relevant oddities in the Hebrew language that the student will encounter in the lesson exercises.  Each lesson exercise has a section devoted to reviewing material and concepts from previous lessons, thus keeping the previous material fresh and providing a sustained basis for the logical accumulation of knowledge.  My only mini-complaint is that some of the exercises are actually a little too easy and rudimentary, and that's saying something coming from someone like me who doesn't possess a particularly strong aptitude for languages.<br /><br />I'm giving the book 4 stars for 2 main reasons, one of which I know is going to be fixed.  There are a proliferation of grammatical mistakes throughout the Grammar, and in some cases, those mistakes are quite material in terms of introducing mass confusion into some of the lesson exercise questions.  Futato is aware of this problem and is working with the publisher to correct these mistakes.  So I fully suspect that the next printing of this Grammar will be much cleaner.  The more substantive problem is that while this is not a Syntax, the lesson exercises that deal with translation do not ask the student to parse verbs and participles - the student is merely asked to translate.  To me, this is incomplete, and I would suggest that these exercises be modified to force students not merely to translate, but to parse verbs from the Hebrew text, and to have the answer key in the back of the book modified accordingly.<br /><br />But overall, this is a fine introductory Grammar that lays down a solid basis for further study of Biblical Hebrew.l is presented. <br /> <br />The lesson exercises themselves have elements in them that range from great to so-so.  The translation exercises get progressively more difficult as more lessons are learned, and this keeps the student challenged, but not overwhelmed.  Futato generally does a good job of providing at least some explanation for relevant oddities in the Hebrew language that the student will encounter in the lesson exercises.  Each lesson exercise has a section devoted to reviewing material and concepts from previous lessons, thus keeping the previous material fresh and providing a sustained basis for the logical accumulation of knowledge.  My only mini-complaint is that some of the exercises are actually a little too easy and rudimentary, and that's saying something coming from someone like me who doesn't possess a particularly strong aptitude for languages. <br /> <br />I'm giving the book 4 stars for 2 main reasons, one of which I know is going to be fixed.  There are a proliferation of grammatical mistakes throughout the Grammar, and in some cases, those mistakes are quite material in terms of introducing mass confusion into some of the lesson exercise questions.  Futato is aware of this problem and is working with the publisher to correct these mistakes.  So I fully suspect that the next printing of this Grammar will be much cleaner.  The more substantive problem is that while this is not a Syntax, the lesson exercises that deal with translation do not ask the student to parse verbs and participles - the student is merely asked to translate.  To me, this is incomplete, and I would suggest that these exercises be modified to force students not merely to translate, but to parse verbs from the Hebrew text, and to have the answer key in the back of the book modified accordingly. <br /> <br />But overall, this is a fine introductory Grammar that lays down a solid basis for further study of Biblical Hebrew.	2004-07-27
US	50142550	R1JQF5M5BW1NJ4	0830813241	403041738	Darwin on Trial	Books	4	34	59	N	N	Mostly Good	I have generally stayed away from getting engrossed in the always contentious creation/evolution debate - mainly because I'm neither a scientist nor a philosopher and I recognize the limitations these facts have on my ability to responsibly appraise the legitimacy of each side's arguments.  As such, I am not well versed in the explosion of literature in this area emanating from both sides, and my critique of this book should be understood with this in mind.<br />As an evangelical committed to Biblical authority, naturalistic evolution is untenable because its metaphysical imperatives are hostile to Christianity.  I think Johnson does a good job of demonstrating this.  Further, evolutionary scientists are not merely empirical scientists with no interest in epistemology and metaphysics, but quite the contrary, are necessarily expanding Darwinian naturalism into the realm of philosophy and metaphysics.  Darwinian science without darwinian metaphysics is no threat to anything - it is the metaphysics of Darwinism that give naturalistic evolution its teeth - and both Darwinists and theists know it.  Johnson spends a good bit of time exploring the metaphysical presuppositions (unproven presuppositions) that undergird the entire evolutionist enterprise.  In many ways, I think Johnson succeeds in demonstrating that evolutionism is a comprehensive worldview in every sense, opining upon matters of metaphysics and origins that take naturalistic evolution far beyond the realm of empirical science.<br />Johnson also attempts to critique evolution empirically, by discussing the fossil record and biology.  Johnson's conclusion in these areas is that support for evolution is sparse at best in the very kind of empirical way that respectable science is supposedly based on.  No doubt, debate over the empirical evidence hasn't stopped with Johnson's appraisal of it in this book, but I do think his appraisal generally succeeds in making the much trumpeted 'fact' of evolution quite surmountable.<br />Johnson also discusses philosophy of science and evolutionism's desire to expand its worldview into public education, natural history museums, and all relevant areas of public thought.  This discussion only confirms that what may (arguably) have started as a mainly scientific approach to origins and species has mushroomed into a full scale effort to take the Gospel of Evolution to the masses in non-scientific ways and into non-scientific areas.<br />I'm giving the book 4 stars, probably because I'm a bit prejudiced.  I agree with others that Johnson's speciality as a lawyer, to some degree, handicaps his ability to speak thoroughly persuasively on scientific matters.  I do think Johnson does exhibit a pretty good command of the scientific issues that are discussed here, but just as I'm skeptical of evolutionary scientists switching hats and becoming pseudo-metaphysicists and philosophers with little to no philosophical training, I am likewise skeptical of lawyers acting like scientists.  Having said this, Johnson's main purpose in here is to address issues that are more in his area of expertise - logical argumentation and reasoning, rather than assessing empirical science.  I think this is mostly a strength of the book, though like his evolutionary counterparts, I do think Johnson falls prey to the idea that knowledge is objective in an autonomous human reasoning kind of way.  This, I believe, is an unbiblical notion.<br />Evolutionary ways of explaining the universe did not begin with Darwin - the pre-Socratics tried to explain the universe in ways that prefigure evolutionism as well.  Darwin's main achievement was that he laid down the basics of a comprehensive worldview system that allowed people something else other than the Bible to believe in when it came to explaining the universe and origins.  I think the result of reading Johnson's book is that the appeal of Darwinism is not that it is a worldview bolstered by solid arguments and empirical evidences (because it definitely isn't), but that it is the place to run for those who reject the Bible.  It is hoped by this reader that the evolution's ever more precarious perch atop scientific orthodoxy might eventually give way to a more intellectually respectable empirical and even rationalistic approach to the investigation of origins.	2004-07-17
US	50142550	R22GNFL19VYQ6	0310224764	613882282	Five Views on Apologetics	Books	4	19	22	N	N	Good Book on a So-So Topic	This is a book written by apologists, for apologists.  It is not a book whose primary emphasis is to present a meticulous apologetic for the Christian faith that everyday Christians can use and draw personal strength from, but is rather a book that debates what the best apologetic method is for going about erecting such an apologetic.  As such, its use I think is somewhat limited beyond the rather small audience that likes to have discussions like this.<br />A point needs to be made about this entire subject matter.  I strongly sympathize with Frame's view that debates on apologetic method are actually pretty boring and in many instances, do not represent the best of Christianity or even Christian apologetics.  Regretably, apologetics has too often become a collection point for Christians who frankly like to fight and enjoy conflict.  While the contributors in this book generally refrain from doing that, which is good, the history of apologetics includes no shortage of individuals it seems who once played Cops and Robbers, but then grew up and realized they couldn't do that anymore, so they began playing Clarkians and Van Tillians, or Classicists and Evidentialists, and so on.  While debate over apologetic method has value and does get into larger and arguably more important theological questions, this debate can be conducted much better than it has been in the past, and in that respect, one can hope that the generally civil tone of the contributors (though Craig and Clark in particular could sometimes use a course in remedial Christian love on occasion in here) will serve as an example of such discussions in the future.<br />Relative to the book itself, many of the contributors are first rate apologists in their respective traditions.  Craig is one of the elite apologists around, and surprises a bit with an extended emphasis on the Holy Spirit in his essay.  Habermas is a top evidentialist and it shows in his abbreviated defense of the resurrection of Jesus.  Feinberg is a respected theologian who does seem to come up a bit short in his cumulative case essay.  Frame is the most respected presuppositionalist around today, and presents a convincing, if incomplete, argument from transcendence.  Clark is a disciple of Plantinga, and his tone, not to mention his essay, could have both stood for considerable improvement, though in my view, the Reformed epistemology he embraces entails an inherent handicap of not being very persuasive, though its major tenets tend to be true.<br />The strengths of the book are that the top rung of scholars here (Craig, Habermas, and Frame) all concede some points that previous partisans in their respective schools would not.  Craig and Habermas concede that there is no neutrality, that the unregenerate heart is not neutral about God, but rather hostile.  A major, and justified, criticism of classical and evidential apologetics is that both approaches tend to give natural man far too much credit in their ability to objectively examine the claims of Christianity and to reason rightly about such things in their natural state.  Frame, on the other hand, concedes common ground between believer and unbeliever in a meaningful way, and also finds legitimacy in employing more traditional tools of apologetics as part of a larger transcendental argument.  His defense of 'broad circularity' and critique of other systems who necessarily hold to this as well is also good and necessary in order to try and head off the major critique of presuppositionalism - that it's ultimately circular and illogical.<br />I think the major weakness of the book is that I don't think it is going to satisfy very many readers.  For those who are looking for a good fight between Christians over apologetic method, this book will probably disappoint.  As I said before, I think the charitable tone and attempt to find common ground is a real strength and is productive, but devoted disciples of particular apologetic methods will probably not see it that way and will yearn for a bloodier fight than what takes place.  On the other hand, the mere fact that the book emphasizes apologetic method rather than apologetic arguments, by definition, commands a pretty small audience.  Most casual readers, I suspect, are not terribly interested in the philosophical underpinnings behind apologetic method, and are more interested in wanting from the church's scholars a practical and compelling way to engage unbelief, which this book doesn't labor very hard to do.  It's legitimate to lament this kind of disinterest in the foundational aspects of belief, knowledge, and theology that apologetics tends to build on, and perhaps this book will do something to improve that situation, but I doubt it.<br />So this is a good book that does provide value to the present state of Christian apologetics.  It provides a needed corrective to much of the rancor that surrounds inter-party battles among apologetic schools, and in my view, this is its most meaningful contribution.	2004-07-16
US	50142550	R2FYACG71OZEA	0875522432	908748538	Apologetics to the Glory of God: An Introduction	Books	4	27	28	N	N	Good Introduction	This introduction by Frame is to be commended for recognizing proper apologetic priorities - that our biggest apologetic battles should not be with other Christians over apologetic method, but with non-Christians who are outside the Kingdom.  Frame refuses to play contentious games over apologetic method, choosing instead to take what he believes is the best (the most Biblical) from each approach and incorporate it into a generally presuppositional approach that emphasizes his version of the transcendental argument.<br />Frame, following Van Til, spends a good bit of time in this book arguing that atheism in particular, and all non-Christian thought in general, is guilty of being both rationalistic and irrationalistic at the same time in ways that are incoherent.  Frame strongly believes that only Christianity is capable of avoiding this serious problem, and that in our discussions with non-Christians, the incoherence of his system should be an important part of our apologetic in terms of playing offense.  <br />His transcendental twist on more traditional forms of apologetics is good for several reasons.  First, contra Van Til, Frame acknowledges that a transcendental argument, in order to be persuasive, needs to incorporate elements of classical and evidential apologetics (though Van Til was not totally against these things at all, he just seemed a bit reticent to incorporate them into his own system).  The transcendental twist is clearly driven by Frame's conviction that metaphysics, epistemology, and ethics inform each other and are all essential to knowledge.  Frame's basic point is that without God, intelligibility is impossible.  We cannot understand concepts like cause, motion, evidence, ethics, or anything else without presupposing God.  It is here that the reader will see Frame's Calvinist theology, where Romans 1 takes center stage in appraising man's ability to think rightly without God.  Frame's discussion of what unregenerate man does and doesn't knowabout God, and how this impacts on how much 'common ground' the Christian and non-Christian share is quite good and in my view, is far more helpful than Van Til's or Clark's formulation of this problem.<br />The strengths of Frame's apologetic, first of all, is that it is flexible.  His perspectivalism, coupled with his transcendental twist, really enables the Christian to start just about anywhere with a non-Christian in terms of apologetic discussion.  Frame provides good tools for starting with metaphysics in dealing with philosophically sophisticated non-Christians, or for non-Christians who care far more about things like ethics, the Christian can start there as well.  His appraisal of atheism as incoherent is also quite good, and he provides solid tools upon which we can demonstrate its incoherence to folks who subscribe to it.  His secondary embrace of evidentialism as defensive apologetics is also welcome, as is his insistence that positive apologetics are needed in order to make a persuasive argument for Christianity, rather than simply doing negative apologetics in the hopes that people will see that Christianity is the only thing left standing.<br />Frame's treatment of the problem of evil is good, in that he attempts to erect a Biblically based theodicy rather than a philosophical one without Biblical warrant.  As others have pointed out, his rejection of the free-will defense is courageous and absolutely correct as a matter of exegesis.  However, his greater-good defense is something I found to be a bit lacking, in that it's good for as far as it goes, but actually raises serious concerns that Frame does not really address.<br />The other weakness is that while Frame does try to make presuppositional apologetics accessible at the street level (which was a major failure of both Van Til and Clark), I suspect many readers who are not fanatical about apologetics will still be confused and unsure of how to use a good bit of the central pieces of Frame's approach in their interactions with non-Christians.  It seems somewhat clear to me that absent a background in philosophy and epistemology, too much of Frame's approach will fall on bewildered ears that don't know what to do with most of the material in this book.  In this respect, while those who are familiar with Frame's perspectivalism will indeed find this book to be an introductory work, I suspect that most who are not familiar with Frame's approach will find this book to be far more difficult to get through and practically use.<br />So this is a good, but improveable effort.	2004-07-16
US	50142550	REUIBKY3KJZ5M	087552379X	412753434	He Gave Us Stories: The Bible Student's Guide to Interpreting Old Testament Narratives	Books	5	26	26	N	N	For what it attempts to do, it is very good	This was one of the first significant treatments of a literary approach to hermeneutics within evangelical circles at the time the book was first published.  And while I personally don't think a literary hermeneutic is the only good way to read the Bible, Pratt does a good job of demonstrating that such an approach has much to commend it.<br />Traditional evangelicals and liberals alike tend to like dissecting the Bible into little pieces (verses or even words within verses) as its primary technique of Scriptural examination and interpretation.  While this is certainly not bad at all, Pratt properly believes that such an emphasis carries with it the very real danger of contextual tunnel vision, where we miss the larger picture and end up missing a lot of what the Bible intends to teach us.  Pratt's hermeneutic in this book emphasizes the importance of investigating the 'original meaning' of the text - how the text was to be understood by the original historical audience it was being written to.  For example, if Moses wrote Genesis during the time of the exodus as the Israelites were either at Mt. Sinai or in the plains of Moab about to enter Canaan, this historical background helps the modern reader gain added insight into not only what Moses said, but why he said it.  While there are dangers with this, as I will discuss below, when handled properly, much that we either didn't understand or particularly care about in the Old Testament become extremely fascinating and meaningful.  Such an approach requires us to read the Bible as a piece of literature that is telling stories - inerrant stories that are purposeful and contain timeless truths that are in part flushed out better when we understand the particular cultural and historical messages that the Bible contained for the original audience and writer of each canonical book.<br />For readers who want to understand the relationship between the Old Testament and the Christian today in the 21st century, Pratt's approach is most instructive.  Epochal, cultural, and personal adjustments are a critical part of his hermeneutic and help explain why we don't sacrifice bulls today or worship at a temple in Jerusalem, while showing how these things are still nonetheless significant and instructive for us today.  Consistent with Reformed covenant theology, Pratt also insists that the Old Testament needs to be seen in the light of redemptive history, culminating in Christ.  Kingdom and covenant are major organizing principles of Pratt's hermeneutic, and while readers should understand that this is far from the only good Christian model of approaching the Bible, Pratt provides a solid presentation of it here. <br />As with both the systematic and 'biblical' theological approaches, the literary approach is not perfect and contains some weaknesses and dangers.  The major danger is that a literary approach, if not sufficiently controlled, can easily spiral into ungrounded speculation that could prove just about any point anybody wanted to make, regardless of whether that's what the Bible actually teaches or not.  Pratt's book, while quite good at laying out a literary hermeneutic sprinkled with Biblical theology, could have been better in warning its readers of the danger of this approach when applied unrestrained.  Pratt affirms that Scripture is the lone final authority to which we all must submit, but the book is a bit sparse on defining what exactly this means within a literary context in terms of establishing good controls that constantly force our literary musings back to the Bible as the final arbiter of legitimacy and truth.<br />But overall, this is an insightful book that will greatly challenge many of its readers to read the Bible in a fundamentally different way than they have up to this point.  For the most part, this is a good thing and worthy of attention.	2004-05-21
US	50142550	RZWC17FXDVBJB	0664223168	25000335	New Testament Exegesis: A Handbook for Students and Pastors(3rd Edition)	Books	5	29	30	N	N	A Must Have	Laypeople, seminary students, and even pastors who think they know what 'exegesis' means need to get this book.  Fee's contribution here has been recognized for some time as a vital tool for conducting responsible exegesis, and the praises it has received are most warranted.<br />This book methodically lays out various steps that should be taken in conducting exegesis.  These steps include lexical, historical, cultural, theological, genre and text critical analysis that forces the exegete to really do their homework and research.  At a time when preaching, teaching, writing, and debating techniques have reduced the Bible to pet proof-texts and inch deep examination, this book provides a much needed corrective that insists on a combination of deep seriousness and thorough study and research when handling the Word of God.  I have used many of the steps in this book to conduct some preliminary exegesis on various passages of Scripture, and the result has been that I learned more in a couple months about the passages in question than years of independent and mostly aimless study revealed.  This is a book that will help equip the reader with the ability to conduct responsible exegesis, and will also equip the reader to effectively and intelligently critique other books and articles that fail to substantively engage the text.<br />As others have noted, the suggested sources and reference materials that are listed throughout the book are quite good in giving the reader not only good exegetical steps, but reference works to actually put the steps into action.  <br />In conclusion, while I believe that there are valuable exegetical steps that can be taken in exegesis that Fee does not list here, this book is nonetheless a very good and absorbable resource that will enhance evangelical scholarship and preaching if leaders and teachers, not to mention laypeople, take its contents to heart.	2004-05-21
US	50142550	R2D04JRHATP4FK	0875524184	852261574	The Christ of the Covenants	Books	5	68	69	N	N	A Classic on Covenant Theology	I'm giving this book 5 stars even though I do not agree with everything that Robertson puts forth here.  This book has been on the market for nearly 25 years now, and it remains a standard resource addressing covenant theology that scholars across the theological spectrum still interact with today.  <br />Robertson's book was, and is, a distinctive contribution to covenant theology.  Unlike some of his contemporaries like the great John Murray, Robertson appears to argue for the conditionality (to varying degrees) of each Biblical covenant, rather than trying to determine which covenants were allegedly conditional versus unconditional.  However, where certain contemporary covenant theologians stress covenants in the context of the Kingdom of God, Robertson stresses covenants in the context of human redemption.  The reader should therefore understand that Robertson's version of covenant theology, while having many similarities with virtually all forms of conservative Reformed covenant theology, is not the only version that has been proposed and argued for.<br />The book does show its age in spots.  His chapter interacting with dispensationalism was spot on 25 years ago, but not now.  The progressive dispensational movement of today does not look a whole lot like the dispensationalism that Robertson interacts with here.  But more importantly for Reformed readers, Robertson's emphasis on covenants that are not explicitly mentioned in Scripture is a feature that is also on the wane in today's covenantal circles.  Robertson forcefully argues for the 'covenant of works/covenant of grace with Adam' structure that is outstanding in my view, but is a feature of covenant theology that's becoming less and less stressed today.  He properly stays away from presenting eternal divine decrees within the godhead as covenantal.<br />One of the central themes of this book is that covenants are far more unified than diverse, demonstrating continuity rather than discontinuity.  In manyways, this has been the central issue of debate surrounding Biblical covenants.  Robertson's emphatic stress on the unity of the covenants is still a staple of covenant theology, though greater discontinuity is being allowed in covenant circles today in ways that Robertson does not leave room for here.  I happen to think that Robertson's presentation, while undoubtedly highly systemic and therefore susceptible to flattening the Bible and minimizing its diversity, is nonetheless very good and mostly correct.  His contention that Jesus Christ is the comprehensive fulfillment of all Biblical covenants and that the New Covenant that He inaugurated is the final covenant is an essential aspect of covenant theology that puts each Biblical covenant into a distinctly Christological context.<br />In summary, any investigation of the merits of covenant theology must include a perusal of this book.  Whatever disagreements I may have on the edges, I think Robertson has given us a lasting contribution in this area that has become the starting point for most formulations of covenant theology in the years following its publication.  A crucial contribution worthy of purchase.	2004-03-26
US	50142550	R2DMTLHGGXU0V7	0830823638	738692706	Kingdom Come: How Jesus Wants to Change the World	Books	4	31	31	N	N	Good Popular Level Introduction to Kingdom Theology	Wakabayashi has produced a rather unique contribution to the field of Kingdom theology - an introductory, mostly non-technical, reader friendly, and unintimidating look at the coming of the Kingdom.  Unlike the important classics in the field by Vos and Ridderbos, this book has the potential of making Kingdom theology accessible and understandable on the average layperson level.  I, for one, think this is a good thing and mostly applaud this book's appearance on the market.<br />Wakabayashi is not a decorated theologian, but he is seminary trained and for the most part, his theological views are sound.  He writes this book with a passion to demonstrate that Jesus wants to change the world, and he laments what he rightly believes is the lack of global and personal transformation that has become the hallmark of the Christian church in our day.  Wakabayashi believes that a renewed focus on the Christian's place in the Kingdom has the potential to positively address this enormous problem.<br />Wakabayashi presents the standard 'already/not yet' Kingdom theology that has come to dominate New Testament Biblical theology over the last several decades.  But his exposition of Kingdom eschatology is not really the thrust of the book, though it does provide the basis for much of what he says.  Instead, Wakabayashi seems intent on showing how this theological understanding manifests itself in the world and in our lives.  His contention that Jesus wants to change the world is really an appeal to renewal and transformation on a cosmic scale.  For Wakabayashi, this means cultural transformation in terms of Christians becoming involved in politics and policy, as well as articulately advocating Christian ideas in higher education, the media, and every other legitimate secular discipline.  This mentality has echoes of Kuyper in it, but unlike Kuyper, Wakabayashi makes very specific appeals that evangelicals are not always comfortable with.  His appeal for Christians to make the Kingdom made manifest by working against social injustice and environmental degradation, among other things, is mostly welcome.<br />I found Wakabayashi's application of Kingdom theology to the topic of evangelism to be quite insightful.  In a day where evangelism is chalked up to handing out a tract or inviting someone to a movie, and when conversion is defined as praying a prayer or walking down an aisle, Wakabayashi presents something far more substantive.  If the Kingdom of God has come, and if the nature of the Kingdom is for the citizens of the Kingdom to be loyal and obedient to their King, this leaves no room for a lukewarm Christianity that does not exhibit life change or a desire to be obedient.  While the imperial language is probably not the greatest evangelistic tool, Wakabayashi should be applauded for insisting that Kingdom evangelism must emphasize loyalty to God and His character in the lives we live.  We are not saved by our works, but we are judged by our works.  Evangelicals too often bathe in the former and forget the latter, but both are essential.  That's what it means to be a Christian - a true citizen of God's Kingdom.  If the Kingdom of God was inaugurated by Jesus mainly through obedience and suffering (which it was), Kingdom living for us today should be reflective of our perfect Model - King Jesus.  We should joyfully long to be obedient to the One who has saved us, and we should not be surprised when we are called to suffer for His sake, just as He predicted so long ago.  Kingdom living will not sell many books, but it will result in a purposeful, substantive, and joyous life in Christ for those willing to embrace it - not to mention that it will make people see the world around them with new eyes in ways that will make the world we live in today more understandable.<br />I'm giving the book 4 stars because even on an introductory level, Wakabayashi's interaction with Scripture is not the greatest.  Introductory works are not designed to present meticulous and rigorous exegesis.  Yet too often, in their desire to be overly accessible at an introductory level, these books tend to stress personal testimonies and stories to such a degree that Scripture gets put on the sideline.  There is a balance that should be struck in a work like this, but in my opinion, the book is slanted too far to the personal testimony side.<br />But overall, this is a fine introduction to Kingdom theology, and as previously stated, its accessibility, while not flawless, is a welcome addition to this important field of theology.	2004-03-26
US	50142550	R2W5V89SA15L5K	0310923603	19500251	NIV Spirit of the Reformation Study Bible	Books	5	33	35	N	N	Very Well Done	Affectionately though sarcastically referred to as &quot;The Holy Ghost Bible&quot; by its general editor, this reformational study Bible of the NIV translation is as good as they come in terms of study Bibles.  <br />Readers who pick up this study Bible can expect not only to get a good dose of reformational theology in the various study notes, introductions, synopses, and theological articles, but will also get introduced (likely without their knowledge) to the hermeneutical methodology of the general editor, Richard Pratt.  The book level introductions to each of the canonical books lays great emphasis on contextualization in terms of the author, the original audience, the historical circumstances that produced the book, as well as laying out both historical and contemporary theological and practical considerations.  By introducing the books of the Bible in this fashion, the study Bible is challenging the reader to see each book of Scripture within a contextual lens that stresses overall themes and literary structures, but especially challenges the reader to see each canonical book not as 21st century readers far removed from the text, but as the original audience and readers would have seen them.  The editors of this study Bible are clearly proceeding on the view that modern readers of the Bible have missed a great deal of what the Bible has to say because by reading the Bible purely with contemporary concerns in mind, we have insulated ourselves from the historical aspects that drive much of the symbolism and metaphorical language that dominates Biblical literary styles, particularly in the Old Testament.  A failure to contextualize the Bible leads to a failure to understand much of the Bible.  To the extent that the reader agrees with this sentiment, they will profit from this study Bible.<br />The theological articles are short yet penetrating, and a number of the specific study notes are particularly insightful and even controversial (ie: the note on Romans3:23 is quite provocative considering the theological orientation of the editors).  Those interested in Reformed liturgy will love the inclusion of the great Reformed confessions in their entirety near the end.<br />The only letdown is that the maps and lexicon at the end are pretty run of the mill.  Now for most readers, this is probably not that big a deal, but for those hoping for something meatier than the standard fare, they won't really find it here.  But oveall, this is a very good study Bible to have, even for those who don't consider themselves to be of a Reformed theological persuasion.  The hermeneutical approach adopted by this book, for the most part, will be beneficial to readers across the theological spectrum.	2004-02-23
US	50142550	R33R4HVFQ22DBQ	0875523544	62663921	Word of God and the Mind of Man	Books	4	18	20	N	N	Good, but somewhat dated construction of revealed truth	Ron Nash, who is now a professor at Southern Baptist Seminary, has an impressive publishing career focusing mainly on philosophical topics and Christian thought.  This particular book is one of Nash's more enduring contributions.<br />The book is now over 20 years old, and in spots, it shows its age, which will be discussed below.  But Nash's analysis of revealed truth and whether such a thing is possible between God and man, coupled with his proposal that attempts to build a bridge between God and man is still worth reading and is in many ways, still insightful.  Nash starts by charting the progression in philosophy of ruling knowledge about God out of bounds in terms of legitimate knowledge.  Both Hume and Kant, and their successors, developed philosophical constructions of varying complexity that had the practical effect of consigning God to the realm of the unknowable as it related to propositional truth, though Hume and Kant took different roads to arrive at this point.  Nash's contention is that this basic dichotomy that erects a barrier between God and mankind in terms of propositional truth has not only come to dominate secular philosophy but has also invaded the Church as well.  Nash correctly notes that there are anti-intellectual strains within the Church that champion religious feeling and emotion as the only true knowledge of God and our only way to relate to God, and that this overemphasis on feeling is the direct result of a deliberate deemphasis on propositional truth as being a valid way of achieving knowledge of God.<br />Nash then proceeds to propose a Logos construction that argues that there is something of the divine mind included in human existence through innate ideas.  Nash draws strongly from Augustine in his proposal that the imago dei (the image of God) of man warrants such a proposal.  Nash believes that this proposal builds a bridge between God and man where knowledge and truth are concerned, and that while human beings clearly do not have exhaustive knowledge of God, we know a lot more than nothing not only because God has revealed Himself in Scripture, but also because our very nature, though corrupted by the Fall, still exhibits the imago dei through innate ideas.<br />Nash's book suffers from two weaknesses that compel me to the 4 star rating I'm giving it.  First, as others have noted, Nash's appraisal of Van Til's epistemology is problematic.  Van Til did not endorse the severe level of dichotomy between truth according to God and truth according to man the way Nash believes.  On this score, Nash regretably follows Clark's lead in a way that is simply inaccurate.  Secondly, Nash's section on language fails to deal with the Vienna School (Wittgenstein) that has really fueled the distrust with the reliability of language to communicate truth.  Nash's book could have been better had a more in-depth study of deconstruction been undertaken here.  Because this doesn't occur, Nash's discussion here becomes very compartmentalized, though in many ways, I agree with his ultimate conclusions.  This section also shows its age because modern deconstructionists like Rorty, Derrida and Foucault are not dealt with.<br />In conclusion, there are more strengths than weaknesses here, and particularly in Nash's analysis of modernist philosophy, much can still be learned not only about how we've gotten to the point we currently find ourselves in (arguing not so much over truth claims, but having to argue over the possibility of even being able to utter truth claims about God based on truthful knowledge of God), but also in how to fight against it.	2004-01-18
US	50142550	R1N29CGZ4EXCLX	0875524656	93131185	Adopted by God: From Wayward Sinners to Cherished Children	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Good Popular Level Treatment of Neglected Doctrine	It is ironic indeed that in a day where much of contemporary evangelicalism shuns theology and doctrine, the one doctrinal aspect of salvation that is probably the most palatable and appealing to those who disdain theology is perhaps the doctrine that has been the most neglected within the evangelical church - adoption.  This book by Peterson attempts to remedy this peculiarity, and on a popular level, succeeds quite well.<br />The doctrine of adoption has always been critical, but especially in today's culture, the truth of Biblical adoption has great potential to speak afresh to the secular masses.  This appears to be the central conviction of Peterson in this book.  Through many personal testimonies concerning the impact of adoption on the outlook and everyday lives of many different people, Peterson seeks to demonstrate an urgent relevance of Biblical adoption for today.  Further, as will be discussed below, Peterson's book is arranged in a way that looks at the entirety of salvation and the Christian life within the rubric of adoption.  Peterson seems to argue that understanding adoption is critical to understanding the other 'links in the chain' of salvation, such as justification, regeneration, election, etc.  <br />Tying adoption into the entirety of the ordo salutis is an approach that I found to be very good.  It is true that the reader will find some redundancy both within and between chapters as a result of analyzing a handful of key passages multiple times and in multiple places.  But there is a sufficient degree of separation of the concepts discussed in each chapter in such a way to build on each other without simply repeating each other.  In particular, I thought Peterson's analysis of adoption as it relates to regeneration and glorification to be especially good.<br />The other main strength of this book are the numerous personal testimonies and stories that Peterson introduces to bring the doctrine of adoption to life.  Peterson is on a quest hereto humanize theology and show how theology matters on the street and in people's lives, rather than having theology isolated to seminaries and libraries.  This aspect of the book should make the book especially appealing to potential readers who aren't crazy about theology but intrinsically understand that good theology is better than bad theology and wonder whether good theology can translate into a good and vibrant personal orientation with God.  This book shows that it can.<br />Because so many in our society have personal experience with adoption, a book that talks about Biblical adoption and what it means to be adopted into the family of God is most welcome.  This book has the potential of shining a needed light on a neglected doctrine that can speak very personally to countless numbers of folks who feel isolated, lonely, and cut off from their earthly families.  As the testimonies of this book demonstrate, there is no shortage of hurting people who lack good family experiences and even lack family identification, and are walking amongst us everyday as wounded people.  What better way to witness and care for them than to share the Good News of Biblical adoption and what it means.  This book will enable Christians to do just that.	2004-01-18
US	50142550	R2H4BZW7RLRVZV	0875525636	979413959	Defending the Faith: J. Gresham Machen and the Crisis of Conservative Protestantism in Modern America	Books	5	38	38	N	N	Very Informative Look at Crucial 20th Century Figure	This is a very good book by Hart.  Both admirers and detractors of J. Gresham Machen will likely have their views of him challenged by this biography in healthy ways.  <br />Hart's most provocative premise in this book is his argument that Machen actually had quite a bit in common with skeptics like H.L. Mencken at least so far as their mutual criticisms of modernist theology and the mainline churches that became infected with it.  Machen was the famous 'fundamentalist' who did battle against the encroachment of modernistic philosophy and theology in the mainline Presbyterian denomination, as well as at Princeton Seminary - battles that Machen ultimately lost.  But Hart goes to great lengths to demonstrate that Machen was no typical fundamentalist, but was in fact one of the few evangelicals who commanded a high degree of respect within secular academic circles for his astute and intellectually rigorous critiques of liberal theology as well as his strong defenses of orthodox Christianity.  Hart further highlights Machen's clear differences with the fundamentalists of his time on a number of issues.  These differences were defined mainly by Machen's loyalty to presbyterianism and the Westminster Confession, both of which were not endorsed within fundamentalist circles of the time.<br />Hart's examination of Machen's social conscience as well as his attitudes toward matters of the state are very illuminating and are likely to cause many readers who thought they knew Machen well to do some double-takes.  Machen strongly resisted both fundamentalist and liberal tendencies to inject the church into politics and matters of state policy, though the fundamentalists and liberals clearly disagree (and continue to disagree even now) about the role of church in political and social activism.  Machen rejected both.  Hart draws from many personal correspondences that Machen wrote to his mother and others to paint a picture of a very complex man who held views that were very distinctive.<br />I was very surprised and impressed that Hart, a teacher at the seminary Machen founded, and an elder in the denomination that Machen started, gives us a very balanced and sober look at Machen.  This is not a book that fawns over Machen as might be expected by an author of Hart's theological and ecclesiastical pedigree.  Instead we have here a thoughtful examination of a critical Protestant figure of the 20th century that puts forth an extensively documented look at Machen and the times in which he lived.  A very good book.	2004-01-05
US	50142550	R3057H1P5MB554	0801025869	722666983	Christ-Centered Preaching: Redeeming the Expository Sermon	Books	5	27	33	N	N	The Best Book on Preaching in many Years	Bryan Chapell, president of Covenant Seminary, is to be congratulated for this excellent book.  It is a book that has had a positive impact on evangelical preaching in general, and Reformed preaching in particular.  It is warm, exhaustive, practical, and predominately Biblical.  It is an important achievement within the arena of practical theology and homiletics, which tends to be a field dominated by books that either argue that preaching is a relic that should be abandoned, or are mainly emotional/hysterical exhortations to revitalize preaching with little practical application.<br />In my view, no seminary student preparing for a preaching ministry should be without this book - nor should even seasoned pastors who are open to good homiletical teaching.  It is a book that is truly exhaustive, making it a wonderful resource that can be referred to over and over again.  To some readers, the exhaustive nature of the book might be intimidating and might scare someone who does not yet have an appreciation for how much of an art and skill good preaching really is.  But in this book are a myriad of tools that have the potential to make otherwise good preachers much better, and to have their messages be truly life transforming.<br />Chapell spends time focusing on the character of the preacher and the necessity of the preacher to rely on the Holy Spirit and not himself - a statement that is obvious but often ignored to the detriment of the preacher and his flock.  Chapell also spends a good bit of time discussing the mechanics of preaching, from preparing a sermon, to things as down to earth as preacher posture and sanctuary acoustics.  It is here that Chapell drives home a number of his chief points - exegetical sermons are great and shouldn't be discarded, and that exegetical sermons are at their best when a good portion, maybe a third, of the sermon is devoted to application.  Chapell also gives the reader an inside look at the weekly routine of a preacher in terms ofsermon preparation - what he does, how he does it, what references or sources does he use, how does he organize his thoughts, etc.  Extremely informative, and again, something that can be referred to repeatedly for years.<br />Chapell, consistent with his 'Christ-Centered Preaching' book title, strongly advances the view that preaching should be redemptive in character, with Jesus Christ as the climactic focus of the entire Bible.  It is here that Chapell gets into some trouble, but not severely.  His assertion that Jesus Christ can and should be legitimately brought into any sermon preached from any passage of Scripture is a bit suspect, because contrary to the wishes of the Biblical Theology people, this approach puts the Bible into a systemic grid and flattens it every bit as much as a systematic approach to theology or homiletics - it's just a different kind of system.  So while the redemptive historical approach to preaching is good and helpful on balance, the discerning reader will recognize that this approach is every bit as man-made as any systematic approach to Biblical preaching, and is therefore certainly improveable.<br />But this somewhat minor beef aside, this book will equip evangelical preachers, and particularly Reformed preachers, with a wealth of knowledge and information that can transform sermons into life changing events where the Spirit takes our fishes and loaves and multiplies them greatly to feed the flock on a regular basis.  There needs to be a revival in preaching, away from the mile-wide inch deep approach that often epitomizes proof-text preaching, and toward substantive and exegetically enriching sermons, and this book lays a great foundation.	2003-12-10
US	50142550	R1A0N7XXTOP8Y4	0830815422	109711391	Spiritual Theology: A Systematic Study of the Christian Life	Books	4	65	67	N	N	Well Done	There is little doubt that from a purely dogmatic standpoint, this is one of the more thorough and exhaustively documented treatments of spiritual theology available today.  It is highly intellectual, extensively documented (and I do mean extensively), and a top work of scholarship.  As I will discuss below, it is an improveable effort in at least two ways, but from the standpoint of scholarship and depth, this book pretty much blows away most everything that's passing for spiritual theology and spiritual discipline development in Christian bookstores these days.<br />For those interested in Chan's theological perspective, I would classify him, for lack of better terminology, as being in the left wing of Reformed theology.  Chan does seem to be in the Calvinistic camp on the question of man's condition and status before God, and it is this Reformed perspective that tends to lay the groundwork for much of the book.  Having said this, the book is quite ecumenical, and it is really amazing the sheer volume of Christians, both past and present, that Chan interacts with in this book.  If there's one thing that's beyond debate, in my view, it's that the scholarship exhibited by Chan here is breathtaking and will be much appreciated by those looking for a very in-depth and substantive read.<br />The book attempts to lay out a systematic approach to spiritual development, and urges readers to develop and adopt a rule of life that integrates individual and corporate spiritual development with an eye towards connecting the global Christian community more closely.  Chan spends a good deal of time not only developing many familiar (though some unfamiliar) spiritual disciplines, but also interacting with far more than the Western spiritual experience.  In a book like this, Chan's extensive interaction with Eastern and Asian forms of Christian spirituality is very informative and most helpful.<br />Chan is clearly and rightly concerned about the lack of spiritual development thatseems to be dominating much of Protestantism today.  In our zeal to adopt individualistic spiritualities that spurn the institutional church and particularly ecclesiastical heirarchy, Chan believes that Protestants have lost a very important aspect of spiritual development - community and global development of a distinctively Christian spirituality.  He's right.  This book is clearly aimed at getting mainly evangelical Protestants to take another look at the spiritual disciplines not as things to check off on a purely personal 'to do' list, but as the truly life transforming disciplines they are, and to see such spiritual development not purely as individualistic or personal, but as corporate and communally interactive.  This mentality is mostly welcome, and it is something evangelicals need to reexamine.  The medieval church in particular knew a lot more about spiritual development than many of us today, and Chan very properly has no hang-ups about interacting and incorporating their views and practices into a contemporary rule of life for spiritual development, and neither should we - though this is an area where theological discernment is called for, as Chan himself argues.  His remark that 'if Christians today were to learn discernment in large numbers, most television evangelists would go out of business' is spot on, in my view.<br />I will mention 2 regrets that compel me to the 4 star rating.  First, Chan's dogmatic and historical scholarship are impeccable, but his interaction with Scripture is not.  The reader will find that Chan seems to quote from just about everything and everybody - with the exception of Scripture.  His interaction with Scripture is sparse and surface level.  Thus, this book deals much more with how the church has pursued spiritual development then with what Scripture actually says about such things.  Big weakness.  Secondly, it surprised me that in a book on spiritual development via the spiritual disciplines, little to no mention wasmade of fasting.  This strikes me as a rather glaring omission, particularly since fasting is the one spiritual discipline that has been most abandoned within evangelicalism and is the least understood in terms of its purposes and goals.  <br />With these critiques in mind, I nonetheless recommend the book as a very substantive and needed survey and development of spiritual theology.  This is not a book for the beginner, or for someone looking for fluff and a light read.  This book 'definitely ain't that'.  But it rewards careful study and contemplation.	2003-12-10
US	50142550	R2J8RMS2Y6KILU	0310210089	482338051	Becoming a Contagious Christian	Books	4	163	174	N	N	More Good Than Bad	This book really contributed to the seeker friendly evangelism and worship craze that is still prevalent in many megachurches in America.  Thousands of church leaders have attended leadership conferences at Willow Creek designed to equip churches to reach out to secular people relevantly.  While there are several problems I have with the Hybels approach in this book, in the end, I think more good than bad has come from the methodology and mentality proposed here, and hence, I'm giving the book a cautious 4 star rating.<br />Someone looking for an academic theology of evangelism will probably not be satisfied with this book.  The book is heavily weighted toward practical application and personal empowerment, and this is quite deliberate.  The Hybels model stresses individual evangelism both in daily living, and even within the institutional church.  The Hybels model, as I've seen it practiced, can turn the entire church top to bottom into an evangelistic enterprise, with lay leaders and volunteers in the church doing most of the heavy lifting.  This model naturally tends to work best within the context of churches that shun an extensive ecclesiastical heirarchy, and instead have a pastoral staff that believes in and even welcomes change, adaptability, and flexibility.  This intense emphasis on preaching and ministry that are ultimately evangelistic in nature has resulted in astounding church growth in more than a few churches, and in this respect, the Hybels model is to be applauded.  But it also comes with dangers as I will discuss below.<br />This book is loaded with practical application that Christians can almost immediately put into practice.  In addition, the book offers helpful tips on sharing your faith in succinct and compelling ways, and really hammers home the theme of 'authenticity' and evangelism as a process, rather than the gospel raid approach that presses immediately for a decision and commitment to Christ without doing much of what is needed to truly resemble authentic and caring evangelism.  These contributions are welcome and are things that evangelicals of all theological stripes should pay attention to and generally adopt.  Hybels calls for flexibility in evangelism that is person and even situation specific, and while this might rub some people the wrong way, I do think a good case can be made that effective evangelism cannot be reduced to a standardized approach that refuses to interact with the uniqueness of each person we encounter.  <br />Now for the bad stuff.  Tops on this list is Hybels egregious paraphrasing of Scripture throughout much of the book.  Hybels is blatantly guilty in here of recasting and rewording the Bible to make it fit the points he wants to make.  I have long said that the tendency of evangelical preachers to minimize the importance of the actual words in Scripture through reworded paraphrases that may or may not be Biblically faithful is a direct assault on the notion that the Bible was divinely inspired not just in the ideas presented, but in the words used to express those ideas.  It is impossible for me to understand how Hybels could so thoroughly engage in this practice if he affirms verbal plenary level inspiration.  Either he doesn't affirm this, which is a big problem, or he does and he doesn't take it seriously, which is also a big problem.  Either way, the reader should be extremely discerning when Hybels makes his arguments from Scripture by rewording what the Bible says so radically, and also speculating on what the Bible does not say and then uses these speculations as an integral part of his argument.  Bad theology, bad hermeneutics, bad teaching.<br />The other major problem is the fact that Hybels, more then once, seems to imply that evangelism is at root, an activity powered more by human effort than the power of the Holy Spirit.  Any book on evangelism that talks in great length about human action while giving the power of the Holy Spirit a passing nod is one that employs a theology that severely flirts with work-based religion.  This is particularly dubious in Hybels' case since in his gospel summary section, he states (very correctly) that religion is about what people do to try to gain God's favor, while Christianity is about what God has already done that we could not do.  In my view, what Hybels gets right here, he gets wrong throughout most of the rest of the book.<br />So it is a mixed bag, but as I stated at the beginning, because the book deals heavily with application, and since many of his application points are valid and very good, the book is more good than bad.  However, I would strongly urge the reader to employ a heavy dose of discernment when reading this.	2003-12-10
US	50142550	RBVGCS6HUN02N	0072560789	608585152	Socrates to Sartre and Beyond: A History of Philosophy	Books	5	26	27	N	N	A Fine Survey of Western Philosophical Thought	This book, now in its seventh edition, is one of the better histories of western philosophical thought and development.  In this edition, Fieser takes the reins, building upon the work of the late Samuel Stumpf, respected philosopher at Vanderbilt.  This is a book that is comprehensive, yet fairly accessible as well.  The beginner to philosophy might have difficulty with sections dealing with the more elaborate thinkers like Hegel or even Heidegger, but on balance, I think even a beginner will be able to get a great deal out of this book.<br />Through careful study of this book, the reader will begin to see how western society has been thoroughly shaped by the philosophies described here.  While philosophy is regularly dismissed as irrelevant theorizing that has no bearing on the real world (a criticism that is not altogether invalid), what can be seen from reading this book is that ideas matter, and they have consequences that thoroughly shape the 'real world'.<br />Stumpf/Feiser begin with the pre-Socratic philosophers, and then devote considerable time to analyzing Socrates, Plato, and Aristotle.  It is Plato and Aristotle that Western thought owes its inheritance, and this can be seen in the treatment of Augustine and Aquinas and the outworkings of their philosophies/theological approaches and necessities.  <br />Modernist philosophy gets a hard look in this book as well, starting with Descartes and moving up through Kant.  Existentialism, both Christian and atheist, are examined through Kierkegaard and Sartre/Camus, and the book also devotes a decent amount of attention to Nietzche and analytic philosophy, the forebears of postmodernism.  <br />In each case, the analyses in this book are solid, and while the treatment is certainly not exhaustive, many of the major ideas of the philosophers mentioned are handled quite well and in mostly understandable and accessible ways.<br />I will register only 2 minor complaints.  The book's citationing approach is not goodat all.  The book regularly quotes from the works of the philosophers in question, but does not have formal citations.  This is very fixable and should be fixed in the next edition, there's no reason why the citations shouldn't be in here.  Secondly, postmodernism itself is still not dealt with as comprehensively as it should be.  While Rorty's thought is discussed, Foucault, Derrida, and others are not and they should be in order to present an adequate picture of contemporary philosophy.  In addition, the work of Plantinga also deserves mention but is excluded.<br />But overall, this is a fine survey - more advanced than Grenz's survey 'Primer on Postmodernism' (which I would recommend for those wanting a survey treatment on Derrida and Foucault), but still accessible for most anyone interested in a substantive treatment of Western philosophy.	2003-12-10
US	50142550	R3DN2UGQVGPYC6	0875522793	73705867	The Pastor-Evangelist	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Highly Recommended	This book is an outstanding collection of essays written by a number of Reformed scholars concerning many aspects of evangelism.  As I will expand upon later, this book has regretably flown under the radar even within Reformed circles and I think that's highly disappointing and even damaging.<br />Over a dozen Reformed contributors (some high profile, others not) come together to tackle a variety of topics related to evangelism.  From the role of prayer, to evangelistic church strategies, to individual evangelistic empowerment, there are precious few aspects of evangelism that aren't covered at least to some degree in here.  Some contributions are better than others, but nearly all of them are good stuff.<br />Reeder's chapter on revitalizing existing churches that are dying was masterful.  Evangelical pastors suffering in mainline churches in particular might benefit from this chapter, but also many seminary students planning pastoral ministry - for different reasons.  Since mainline denominations, even after 4 decades of steady decline, place little emphasis on church planting, the question is not how to start a new church, but how to save and revitalize existing churches - which is a mission made all the more difficult by denominational level abandonment of Christian orthodoxy.  In contrast, within evangelical denominations, such an emphasis is placed upon new church planting that existing church revitalization doesn't seem to get nearly as much attention.  And for the would-be pastor, this is very problematic since seminary graduates heading off to pastoral ministry are still quite likely to be called to a dying church requiring revitalization as their first pastoral assignment.  This chapter, in my view, is must reading for these reasons.  One wonders if the emphasis on church planting might be fueled by a general lack of strategy on how to revitalize existing churches who are struggling.  This chapter is a needed antidote, very needed.<br />Clowney's chapter on Kingdom evangelism is quite good as well.  Not surprisingly, Clowney's theology of evangelism is heavily influenced by Vosian Biblical Theology.  Gyger's chapter on integrating evangelism with church growth is also very good, since it provides some perspective and guidance on the commonly thorny question maintaining the vitality of the gospel while also reaching out as a church in the context of growing Christ's church.<br />This book was published back in 1987, making it rather old.  This is both good and bad.  It's bad because after 16 years, the Reformed community has still paid scant attention to its contents, which is quite ominous.  The distinguished group of authors who came together in this collaboration were clearly writing as a group of Reformed scholars and pastors who were quite concerned about the state of evangelism within Reformed circles, and were writing as an appeal for change.  Well, little change has resulted because it doesn't appear that many folks have been listening, which almost certainly verifies the fact that the Reformed community has a long way to go when it comes to evangelism.  But what this means is that this book, while quite old, is still very relevant in what it has to say to us today.  It's not too late for this book to make the kind of impact that it warrants.  With Reformed Theology and Calvinism making something of a comeback in the last 20-30 years within American evangelicalism, the opportunities are there for Reformed evangelism to be fruitful and Spirit-filled.  This book can be of great help.  Highly recommended.	2003-12-09
US	50142550	R18W8BNYCEI7KO	0875523773	977756074	Pray with your eyes open: Looking at God, ourselves, and our prayers	Books	5	25	26	N	N	VERY Good Book on Prayer	Books on prayer abound within Christian circles.  Christian bookstores are filled with such books, with many such books acting more like 12 step programs for revitalizing prayer so we can get what we want, than in providing a Biblically based theology and perspective on prayer that can actually anchor our outlook in prayer in the Bible.  Pratt predominately succeeds in doing this.<br />As Pratt indicates at the start, this book does not provide any grand revelations on prayer that haven't been known throughout the history of the church.  It's not a magic pill offering magical formulas, and it doesn't resolve every conceivable issue surrounding prayer.  But it is still quite thorough in the issues it addresses, and more importantly, its inquisitiveness is substantive and very practical.<br />A reader who decides to read this book is probably someone who feels that their prayer life is missing something, maybe a lot.  Many Christians are in this boat, me included.  As a result, I think many readers will be pleasantly surprised by the insights that are offered about our approach to prayer and how both our prayers and the attitudes and expectations behind them are so often out of accord with the prayers recorded in the Bible.<br />Not surprisingly, the bulk of Pratt's examination on prayer is from an Old Testament perspective, since he's an Old Testament guy.  Readers may very well experience something akin to an awakening or a reappreciation for the Psalms after reading this book, I know I did.  Pratt is thorough in his examination and tends to do a very good job in backing up his assertions in Scripture.  He tends to be very careful in not making grand statements that have no Scriptural support, and this alone is refreshing within the publishing world where prayer is concerned.<br />I found Pratt's approach to be pretty systematic in logically working from one issue to the next.  The review/discussion questions at the end of each chapter make this book excellent for small group studies in addition to individual reading and reflection.  Pratt does an outstanding job of categorizing the many issues of prayer within three essential aspects of prayer - God, ourselves, and communication.  Similar to a wedding, where all that's essential is the bride, groom, and officiant (and maybe a witness or two) while everything else is gravy when you really think about it, a focus on these three essential aspects of prayer helps the discussion greatly and makes all of the chapters relevant within a larger framework of obvious relevancy.<br />This book will benefit the reader greatly, because he/she will gain a greater understanding of the God they are praying to, in addition to a much more discerning and even critical attitude towards themselves and the motives and expectations they bring to prayer.  In addition, the section on the prayerful communication itself may really bring a renewed spark of enthusiasm and vitality to prayer that will replace the mundane and even meaningless monotony so many of us get caught up in when we pray.  Highly recommended.or small group studies in addition to individual reading and reflection.  Pratt does an outstanding job of categorizing the many issues of prayer within three essential aspects of prayer - God, ourselves, and communication.  Similar to a wedding, where all that's essential is the bride, groom, and officiant (and maybe a witness or two) while everything else is gravy when you really think about it, a focus on these three essential aspects of prayer helps the discussion greatly and makes all of the chapters relevant within a larger framework of obvious relevancy.<br />This book will benefit the reader greatly, because he/she will gain a greater understanding of the God they are praying to, in addition to a much more discerning and even critical attitude towards themselves and the motives and expectations they bring to prayer.  In addition, the section on the prayerful communication itself may really bring a renewed spark of enthusiasm and vitality to prayer that will replace the mundane and even meaningless monotony so many of us get caught up in when we pray.  Highly recommended.	2003-12-09
US	50142550	R1NDNP1TC59GU8	0830815368	723450313	The Holy Spirit (Contours of Christian Theology)	Books	5	40	42	N	N	Outstanding and Necessary	This book by Ferguson is now 7 years old, but it remains an essential treatment of the Holy Spirit from a Reformed perspective.  As Ferguson aptly notes early on, fascination with the work of the Holy Spirit has greatly increased in the last 100 years in Christian circles, but knowledge and understanding of the Spirit Himself remains more elusive than ever it seems.  This book is a wonderful remedy to this starvation.<br />Ferguson takes a very mild mannered tone throughout his presentation.  Even the section of the book where he registers his sharpest theological disagreement (in this case, with Grudem), he is charitable and properly recognizes the importance of theology's role to increase understanding and knowledge, but also the depth of Christian community.  <br />As is to be expected from a book written by a professor from Westminster Seminary, the reader can expect to get a healthy dosage of Vos/Ridderbos Biblical theology in here.  Ferguson adopts the favored Westminster view that the New Testament needs to be seen within the context of redemptive history, and particularly eschatology.  As a result, Ferguson's treatment of the presence and work of the Holy Spirit is seen within an eschatological context that stresses His role in the 'already/not yet' period of the coming of the Kingdom.  What this means is that a reader who picks up this book who is enamored more with a systematic theological approach will find a different approach undertaken here.  Particularly in Ferguson's treatment of the ordo salutis, the scholastic approach is mostly spurned in favor of a Biblical Theological approach that stresses the believer's unity in Christ within redemptive history as the predominate motif of the Spirit's work.  <br />Ferguson's early detail on the Person of the Holy Spirit is highly informative and a needed premise to analyzing the work of the Holy Spirit.  In this respect, Ferguson does retain elements of a more traditional systematic theological approach, but also employs a literary approach as well which is the latest thing in theological formulation.  In addition, Ferguson's section on sanctification is outstanding and should aid believers in the perennial dilemma of what to make of the old self/new self imagery in the Bible, as well as the inner personal struggle we experience that frustrates and even perplexes us at times.  Lastly, Ferguson's section on the Spirit's ministry gifts is outstanding.  He comes to this discussion from a cessationist perspective, but is very charitable in his critique and seeks not to minimize or dismiss personal experience, but to incorporate such experience within what he believes is a Biblical framework.<br />Overall, this book is definitely a worthy successor to Kuyper's work a century ago, and is a book that is much needed in Reformed circles to regain the appreciation and dependence we should be feeling toward the Holy Spirit in all phases of our living.  Highly recommended.	2003-12-08
US	50142550	R1NRN6DMBSPPGE	0875520995	664179958	A New Testament Greek Primer	Books	3	14	14	N	N	Wish I could give it a higher review...	but I can't.  This beginner level Grammar of NT Greek is a very fine effort in certain ways that are important.  But as I labored through it as part of my seminary curriculum, I simply found too many things about it that were downright distressing, thus the mixed review I'm giving it.<br />On the positive side, this Greek Grammar workbook is quite thorough for a beginner level grammar.  Those wanting the basics of NT Greek will find that Baugh covers a surprisingly comprehensive array of topics and principles that are really quite essential.  He appropriately breaks from Metzger in focusing the beginner level student on more reasonable levels of vocabulary memorization that provide far more 'bang for the buck' then Metzger's approach.  In addition, he covers nouns up through the third declension, including prominent exceptions, as well as verbs and participles of multiple tenses, voices, and moods.  While I will heavily criticize his workbook exercises later, it should be noted that the answer key for the exercises is needed and does allow the student, depending on his/her aptitude, to independently work through his Grammar.  Also, his glossary of many grammatical terms is also a welcome part of this Grammar, particularly those who struggle with grammatical terminology in English (ie: what is a 'predicate nominative').  This glossary will help in that regard, and this is important since such grammatical terms are used with regularity in this Grammar, as they should be.<br />Now for the negatives.  Baugh's thoroughness on balance is good but he does at times devote too much ink to peripheral and decidedly secondary concepts that too often fog up his book.  And this really comes through when Baugh attempts to present more complex areas such as participles and even adjectives or pronouns.  There are much easier ways to effectively teach participles, contract verbs, adjectives, and irregular aorist forms then what we see from Baugh here.  Participles and irregular aorists in particular are difficult enough on their own without Baugh making them more confusing, often unnecessarily.  And this leads to my last major problem with the book - its completely unnecessary introduction of arbitrary difficulties into the workbook exercises.  With aggravating regularity, Baugh pollutes his workbook exercises either with vocabulary words that haven't been taught yet, concepts that haven't been introduced yet, and in unnecessarily emphasizing minute points (usually without explanatory resolution based on what the student should know from the applicable lesson) that in many cases are purely academic and matters of translation philosophy rather then basic issues of grammar.  I understand that there is a certain teaching philosophy that believes that these forms of instructional 'sneak attacks' serve the noble purpose of stretching the student which is supposed to lead to increased inquisitiveness and the like.  Well, as a student trying to learn a completely new language, Greek (like English) has plenty of built-in irregularities and oddities to keep students on their heals without Baugh's help.  The level of confusion he unnecessarily introduces into the workbook exercises goes a long way towards making his Grammar inaccessible and unhelpful to those who are unfortunate enough to not be studying under a good professor who can compensate.<br />This Grammar had the potential of being truly great.  It is thorough and carries with it the great potential of instilling a very good foundation for more advanced study and literacy of NT Greek.  Unfortunately, if Baugh's book is any indication of the effectiveness of traditional forms of teaching NT Greek, it is little wonder why so few have achieved a genuine level of competence in interacting with the language.  And such a result is very sad indeed since God chose this language as the tool to communicate his special revelation starting with the Gospels.	2003-10-28
US	50142550	R1I9SHLK0V20QK	081701280X	698668613	The Craft of Christian Teaching: Essentials for Becoming a Very Good Teacher	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Very Good Where It Counts	I'm giving this book 5 stars despite some reservations I have about some of what Galindo offers here, particularly in the area of learning psychology.  I'll discuss this more below, but in terms of specific methodologies and approaches to learning in a Christian context, I think this book is full of very good information that teachers and even preachers can refer to repeatedly in their pursuit of becoming very good teachers.<br />In discussing the craft of teaching, Galindo spends considerable time at the outset of the book discussing how people learn, and how learning itself is multi-faceted and fluid.  Galindo interacts with many secular studies about the psychology of learning, what kind of teaching stimulates certain kinds of learning, retention levels, and the all important issue of application of learning.  Galindo's extensive interaction with secular studies could be considered either a strength or a weakness in his approach.  I consider it to be a strength, though it is noteworthy that at the same point in the book where Galindo is laying the groundwork for Christian teaching by relying heavily on secular studies, he also says that Christian teaching is unique and altogether different from non-Christian teaching.  There's an appearance of inconsistency here that Galindo doesn't really deal with, but it's probably minor and I didn't think it ultimately undermined the good stuff he gets to later on in the book.  The same could also be said of the notion that 'you can't teach anybody anything'.  Galindo too often resorts to bumper sticker axioms in the first section of the book which are easily misconstrued and frankly lessen the impact of his otherwise serious treatment of the subject matter.  But again, these things were more annoyances than anything else and do not significantly detract from the meat he offers later.<br />The strengths of the book are Galindo's assertion that Christian teaching is unique because we are not dealing in teaching merely about facts or events, but about relating to a Person, Jesus Christ.  This should necessarily impact on how we conduct our teaching, according to him, and I think that's correct.  In the second part of the book, Galindo puts the groundwork laid in the first section to use in suggesting very practical teaching methodologies and approaches to stress relational learning that emphasizes application and relationship.  There's lots of good stuff in here that's very practical and should prove very helpful to teachers throughout the church, as well as to church leaders who are looking to strengthen their education programs.  While it's true that the reader can get the impression that Galindo is unnecessarily downplaying traditional learning methods by so stressing relationality and application, I do think he's pretty much on the mark in making a case that in Christian teaching specifically, if learning in the classroom doesn't translate into application on the street, our teaching can't really be considered successful.<br />So while there is some minor chaff here that we could do without, there is a good harvest of healthy wheat in here that is worth paying attention to.  Churches expend a lot of resources in their education programs, and I have yet to meet a single pastor who is totally satisfied with the results.  That alone makes Galindo's book worth reading, and possibly worth providing to those people in the church whom God has called to teach.	2003-09-13
US	50142550	RW8LJZ3AP8T46	0875524443	630230884	The Five Points of Calvinism: Defined, Defended, Documented	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Very Good, Purely as an Introduction	There is no shortage of introductory works that attempt to explain the five points of Calvinism, and some of these efforts have been better then others.  This work by Steele and Thomas, though 40 years old, is still one of the better introductions around.<br />In this short work, the authors attempt to provide a summary level construction of the five points of Calvinism - what they are, where they come from, and how they differ from other theological systems.  Readers who are interested in the historical development of the five points will likely find the concise and summary historical introduction to be satisfactory on an introductory level.  This section does not attempt to argue for the truth of Calvinism, but rather sets the historical context for how the 5 points came into being.  The comparison chart at the end of this section which contrasts the 5 points of Calvinism with the 5 points of the Remonstrance is very good and has been relied upon heavily ever since this book came out.<br />It is in the second section that the authors attempt to advance a Biblical argument for each of the 5 points.  As in other introductory works of this nature, the Biblical argument is made mainly by quoting multitudes of Scripture verses without extensive exegesis.  The only significant exegesis is in the appendix, where they provide a more extensive analysis of the foreknowledge question in Romans 8:29, which is quite good.  But if this book were anything other then an introductory work, the lack of exegesis (other than Romans 8:29) would be a serious flaw.  But as the authors point out, their purpose is to set forth the 5 points and to highlight how, in their view, each point of Calvinism is highly reconcilable to Scripture throughout.  What makes this book better then average in this regard is that they do a very good job of organizing each tenet made in each point in a logical fashion and then presenting Scripture passages that touch on each assertion of each point.  The result is a highly organized and lucid presentation that stands in stark contrast to the scattered and disorganized presentations of other introductory works.<br />Another plus for this book is that the authors truly seem to recognize that the limited objective of this book calls for more extensive research and analysis by interested readers.  In that regard, they compiled an impressive and rather extensive (not to mention highly organized) further readings section at the end.  Because the book was written 40 years ago, this resources section is obviously a bit dated, but the compilation presented is excellent in its survey of pre-1960 resources which interested readers can consult for more in-depth theological analysis.<br />In summary, I have personally known folks who were uncommitted in their theology who picked up this book and gained great theological clarity from it, even if they didn't altogether agree with Calvinism.  In that spirit, I echo the comments of other reviewers here who have applauded the straight forward clarity and fairness of this book in succinctly outlining the 5 points of Calvinism and why Calvinists believe they are thoroughly Biblical.  As an introductory work in theology, this book is very good for what it tries to do.	2003-08-30
US	50142550	R20JXC4PIEQXH7	0851511120	265323009	The Christian View of Man	Books	5	24	24	N	N	Predominately Outstanding Treatment of Biblical Anthropology	Allow me to say up front that as a great admirer of Machen, I don't believe that this particular book was his best.  Because it is a compilation of a series of 'talks' delivered via radio during the 1930s, the consolidated written form does not read as well as a manuscript written specifically for a reading audience, rather than a listening audience.  But the actual content of what Machen discusses here is outstanding and like much of his published material from decades past, is in desperate need of being heard today.<br />Because this book is a compilation of timed radio talks, each chapter of the book is short, about 10 pages each.  As is typical of Machen, even in a book like this that purports to discuss the Christian view of man, Machen devotes many of the early chapters to discussing God rather than man.  Machen held a great resentment, properly so, of theologies and worldviews that glorified man which masqueraded as products of the Christian tradition.  As such, even in a discussion about man, Machen very deliberately makes God the focus, particularly in the early chapters.  It is here that the nature of God is discussed, along with His decrees and His attributes, particularly where the creation in general and man in particular is concerned.  In a discussion about man, the reader might think early on that Machen is not really dealing with the stated focus of the book, but he is as is seen by the later chapters.<br />It is in the last 7 chapters in particular where this book really becomes riveting, in my view.  Machen's discussion of creation and the fall is very good.  His treatment of original sin and its relationship to human responsibility is impeccable.  His related critiques of Pelagianism, in all its forms, is devastating.  Machen presents a very compelling case for the inability of man and the grace of God that intervenes in man's hopeless natural condition.<br />As I said at the beginning, this book, while excellent, is not his best or most importantcontribution.  While Machen was obviously interested greatly in matters of theological purity, he also was a student of culture and current events.  As a result, these talks touched upon a number of cultural issues that were current at that time and there are points in this book where Machen devotes considerable ink to discussing societal issues rather than strictly theological issues.  While some of the societal issues discussed here are still pertinent today, the reader may at times sense that the book is at least somewhat dated in these areas, and I confess that some of those discussions seemed at least somewhat off topic, though I certainly acknowledge that my assertion here is debatable.<br />But in conclusion, this book still provides a much needed antidote to the man-exalting theologies that pack many pews in the American church today.  Machen counters this trend with a solidly Biblical argument that confesses that it, like many faithfully Biblical arguments, will not win many popularity contests even among Christians.  An important read on the nature of man and what that means relative to our relationship to God.	2003-08-25
US	50142550	R8SIREVBZYBFK	0875521908	867035378	Transformed by Praise: The Purpose and Message of the Psalms	Books	4	12	12	N	N	Sometimes Insightful, but Improveable Effort	Futato is a respected Old Testament scholar who has devoted a great deal of his scholarly efforts to studying the Psalms.  This work is a popular level treatment that seeks to explore major themes in the psalms and how such themes impact on our lives today.<br />There are two strengths in particular of this book which I found quite helpful and insightful.  Attempting to identify book-wide themes in the Psalms can be daunting because on the surface, the 150 psalms that make up the book of Psalms can appear disjointed and randomly presented as products of multiple authors writing in different time periods.  Futato does a very good job of arguing for a continuity in the psalms that favors the view that the 150 psalms were logically sequenced and that the whole book of Psalms can be organized into 5 'sub-books'.  By establishing this kind of structure, Futato succeeds in getting a handle on the entire book and approaching major themes logically within a reliable interpretive framework.<br />In particular, Futato's argument that psalms 1 and 2 represent an introduction of sorts to the whole book is persuasive and quite helpful.  The best part of the book, in my view, was his treatment of Psalm 2 and his argument that many of the major themes of the entire book of Psalms can be found in Psalm 2, which shouldn't surprise us if Psalm 2 (and 1) constitute a book-wide introduction.<br />Futato also spends a good deal of time getting into Hebrew poetical styles and functions that are heavily evidenced in the psalms, and how such literary devices factor into interpretation and theme extraction.  Futato, in my view, made some insightful points in this section but also at times seemed to be reaching too far in his efforts to fit the psalms into neat literary constructions for ease of interpretation. <br />The other weakness is that while the book does attempt to bring Christ into the picture of the psalms, it is questionable whether Futato really explores this theme sufficiently.The Psalms, like all of Scripture really, ultimately have Christ and His redemptive work as their focus.  Christ can be found in the psalms not only through specific prophecies and quotes, but also through larger redemptive and eschatological themes that were not explored to as great a degree as I believe are warranted.  <br />Lastly, the book had quite a number of grammatical mistakes in it that result too often in awkward sentences.  Future editions, should there be any, need to deal with this problem.<br />Overall, a good effort that attempts to extract legitimate and relevant themes out of the psalms for modern day consumption, but an effort that can be improved upon.	2003-08-22
US	50142550	RQ0XRP5EC5M0A	0851517544	846212800	The Doctrine of Endless Punishment	Books	5	14	16	N	N	The Definitive 19th Century Work on the Doctrine of Hell	WGT Shedd was the last Calvinist theology instructor at Union Seminary in New York.  Along with his Dogmatic Theology, this particular work is Shedd's most enduring contribution to Christian theology.<br />This book attempts to reiterate and argue in favor of the historic Christian doctrine of the reality of a literal hell and that it is a place of endless punishment for those who reject Christ.  In arguing for this, Shedd seeks to present both a biblical argument and a rational argument.  As I will discuss below, his former attempt is better then his latter attempt.<br />In his biblical argument for the doctrine of hell, Shedd pursues two main lines of contention - whether hell in fact exists, and is it in fact a place of eternal punishment.  It is here that Shedd provides much needed analysis of what is meant by the Old Testament Hebrew word 'sheol' as well as the New Testament Greek word 'hades', both of which are terms where confusion and speculation tend to dominate in much modern preaching on hell.  It is also here where Shedd takes on the whole question of whether Jesus descended into hell or not after His crucifixion, which is an assertion that has periodically populated the realm of Christian theology, particularly among certain charismatic strains of thought.<br />The other main strength of this book is his analysis of the kind of punishment that hell's occupants will endure.  Shedd presents a compelling, and in my mind conclusive argument in favor of the doctrine of endless punishment against alternative views such as annihilationism and certainly universalism.  With prominent evangelicals like John Stott flirting heavily with annihilationism in recent decades, Shedd's antidote is most welcome and should be read carefully by all those who are seeking a sober treatment of what Scripture actually says about this subject.<br />When the reader begins to read Shedd's rational argument, they will notice that Shedd falters a little bit.  As has been pointed outby others, Shedd appeared to hold to a view of human ability which was ultimately internally inconsistent with his theology.  Shedd appeared to hold to a view of free will that goes against mainstream Calvinism and the Reformation (and in my opinion the Bible as well), believing that man's 'free will' in a libertarian sense is an intricate component of why there is a hell and why people end up there.  As is the case with many Christians who assert the reality of a kind of libertarian free will, Shedd simply presumes it rather than proves it through Biblical exegesis, and this is a notable weakness in his argument since Shedd appears to take this basic extrabiblical and unproven imperative and makes it a centerpiece of his rational argument.  It is here that the discerning reader will hopefully be more careful about presenting a rational argument for hell then Shedd was in terms of Biblical fidelity.<br />But in the end, while his rational argument is questionable, his Biblical argument is classic, and in the end, that is the most important criteria, hence the 5 stars I'm giving the book.  The doctrine of hell has never been liked, it has never been appealing even to those who affirm its truthfulness.  It's a difficult doctrine, it always will be.  That is why it is especially important in this area, where our emotions and our feelings are least willing to accept such a doctrine, that we must submit to Scriptural authority.  And as Shedd eloquently demonstrates, the traditional doctrine of hell is the theology that does the most justice and most clearly affirms what the Bible repeatedly teaches about this scary doctrine.  Shedd's biblical argument is must reading.	2003-08-22
US	50142550	R2C9HJLTTL96E7	085151491X	846212800	Doctrine of Endless Punishment	Books	5	8	10	N	N	The Definitive 19th Century Treatise on the Doctrine of Hell	WGT Shedd was the last adherent of historic Reformed theology to teach theology at Union Seminary in New York.  In addition to his 3 volume Dogmatic Theology, Shedd is most well known for this book on eternal punishment.  This book is must reading for evangelicals who struggle personally with the doctrine of hell, or struggle with answering objections to it.<br />The book is basically divided up into two sections.  The first big section presents the biblical argument for the doctrine of endless punishment.  It is in these pages that Shedd really dissects the Hebrew 'Sheol' and Greek 'Hades' and clears up a great deal of confusion and misinformation that regularly seems to swirl around these words and their usages in the Bible, including the question of Jesus 'descending into hell or hades'.  In addition, considerable attention is paid to the descriptions of hell offered by Jesus (as well as Paul and John among others) throughout the New Testament.  Shedd's conclusion is that hell is real, people end up there, and that those who do suffer for all eternity.  With prominent evangelicals like John Stott severely flirting with annihilationist views that contradict endless punishment, Shedd is a welcome antidote, and actually offers pointed criticisms of annihilationism itself in addition to universalism and other alternatives.  The Biblical argument put forward by Shedd is compelling, and in my view, conclusive.<br />The second major section of the book is devoted to responding to extrabiblical objections to the doctrine of hell.  It is here that Shedd responds to many of the common negative emotional reactions that people tend to harbor towards the doctrine of hell, particularly in the areas of justice and mercy, and the nature of punishment/retribution.  It is in this section that Shedd articulates one of his more profound thoughts, &quot;If the Biblical hell were as much a non-entity as the heathen Atlantis, no one would waste his time in endeavoring to prove its nonexistence.  What man would seriously construct an argument to demonstrate that there is no such being as Jupiter Ammon, or such an animal as the centaur?  The very denial of endless retribution evinces (evidences) by its spasmodic eagerness and effort to disprove the tenet, the firmness with which it is entrenched in man's moral constitution.  If there really were no hell, absolute indifference toward the notion would long since have been the mood of all mankind, and no arguments, either for or against it, would be constructed.&quot;  This thought is one of several gems that Shedd offers the reader in this section.<br />The only weakness of the book, if one considers himself to be of a Reformed theological persuasion, is that Shedd's inconsistent view on the human will does come out from time to time, particularly in the second section.  As has been pointed out by others, particularly in their appraisals of his Dogmatic Theology, Shedd held to a view of human freedom which appeared to be ultimately self-contradictory.  So in this book, in order to help minimize the supposed sting of the doctrine of hell, Shedd at times relies on an ASSUMED view of human freedom, one he never endeavors to prove, that may well strike most readers as being out of step with Reformed theology, as well as Biblically problematic.<br />But in giving the book 5 stars, I am rewarding Shedd for his otherwise outstanding argumentation, particularly his Biblical argument.  To stand up in any age to affirm the reality of hell as the Bible describes it is a courageous thing to do.  For the most part, Shedd did it magnificently.	2003-08-09
US	50142550	R4ZWXUHMT1TD8	0875524559	543842026	The Modern Search for the Real Jesus: An Introductory Survey of the Historical Roots of Gospel Criticism	Books	4	4	4	N	N	A Solid Introduction to the Evolution of Gospels Criticism	Robert Strimple wrote this book back in 1995, and as such, it is not altogether current in its analysis as I write this review in 2003.  But since the vast majority of the book attempts to chart gospels criticism up through the disciples of Bultmann, whose era has already passed in some measures, the book represents a fine introduction to New Testament criticism generally, and gospels criticism specifically.<br />As Strimple notes, the Enlightenment era provided the kind of fertile environment that was necessary for skepticism to begin to reign supreme in Biblical scholarship.  Strimple attempts to describe the major schools of thought in Gospels criticism from that time forward, along with analyzing the specific thoughts of many prominent scholars from those schools.  Being an introductory work, Strimple touches on the major themes of each school of skepticism, and in many places, provides summary level critiques of those schools.<br />What quickly becomes apparent when reading Strimple's book is that all forms of Gospels criticism are based on skeptical presuppositions that require their adherents to make leaps of faith (pretty ironic) to align themselves with the presuppositions that undergird their program.  Over and over again, it is seen that liberal, radical, postliberal, and existentialist scholars, in seeking the supposed real Jesus, inevitably start their quest with a very definite view in mind that validates whatever their own presuppositions are.  Not surprisingly, these scholars invariably end up 'discovering' the exact kind of Jesus they were looking for, one that bears virtually no resemblance to the Jesus actually discussed in Scripture.  It is most educational to read this book from the vantage point of seeing how the basic presupposition that the Gospel accounts are unreliable results in complete subjectivism relative to Jesus scholarship, as can be seen from different scholars staking out various positions all over the spectrum without being ableto ground their positions in anything other then their own presuppositions.  I was very happy to see Strimple give positive due to Schweitzer at least as far as Schweitzer's honest appraisal of such scholarship as being almost purely an exercise in myth making - the very thing such scholarship claims to be trying to get rid of in the Gospel accounts of Jesus.  While not mentioning it specifically, Strimple's inclusion in this book of these kind of comments by Schweitzer are very telling concerning the folly of the Jesus studies of the last 2 centuries.  If someone who was as unorthodox and radical as Schweitzer could recognize the futility of Gospels criticism as it existed, those who subscribe to such skeptical methods are actually forced to answer not only criticisms from evangelical scholars like Strimple, but from prominent scholars in their own camp.<br />I gave the book 4 stars mainly because of the glaring omission concerning the Jesus Seminar.  Strimple makes passing references to the Jesus Seminar and how their methodology is based heavily on old-line form criticism which has been beaten to a pulp over the last several decades by scholars across the entire spectrum of New Testament scholarship.  But a more in-depth treatment of the Seminar would have been completely appropriate, but was not undertaken here.  An unfortunate omission that spares the most high profile New Testament skepticism around today from the kind of analysis and critique it readily deserves.  How Strimple could have written a book about various quests for the real/historical Jesus without devoting some ink to the most popularized form of the quest today is something that frankly escapes me.  As such, the book gets 4 stars for being decidedly incomplete even on an introductory level.  <br />But other then cutting off his analysis a decade short, what Strimple does interact with is high quality stuff and should be read carefully by Christians who seek to make sense of the Biblical skepticism that continues to reign among many non-evangelical academics today.	2003-08-04
US	50142550	R25E0CIG8JN8K9	0875521851	998169656	No Other God: A Response to Open Theism	Books	4	23	31	N	N	Predominately Excellent Contribution	When it comes to matters of either theology or philosophy, being in a different camp then John Frame is not fun.  Over the last 15 years or so, Frame has published a number of works on various topics that have taken Christian scholarship to a new level of freshness and coherence.  This particular book, for the most part, falls into that category.<br />This contribution to the open theism debate, while not perfect, is a solid attempt to take on open theism on a variety of fronts.  Unlike other critiques of open theism, Frame engages in an exegetical critique that is vital.  But this book is not a purely exegetical critique, for it also engages open theism's presuppositions in the areas of hermeneutics and emotional imperatives that they bring to bear on the text.  As a result, this book is one of the better books around in presenting a full orbed critique of open theism.<br />The result is a critique that exposes open theism for what it is - a philosophically and epistemically inconsistent worldview supported by dubious biblical exegesis and hermeneutical principles.  Frame is outstanding in comparing the stated principles of open theism with the actual exegesis (to the extent that it can be called that) that actually violates their stated principles.  He tends to be relentless not only in dismantling the legitimacy of libertarianism which is the lone guiding principle of the open theist program, but is also relentless in exposing the works of open theists as being AWOL when it comes to dealing with numerous biblical texts that militate against their system.  It was refreshing to read a competent appraisal of the holes that tend to be gaping in the scholarship of the chief apologists of open theism.<br />I gave the book 4 stars mainly because while Frame's critique is full orbed and wide reaching, it suffered occasionally in what I felt was its unnecessary brevity.  In particular, Frame's last chapter on the various theological ramifications of open theism was far too summary level and came off as an afterthought which was most unfortunate.  The same can arguably be said about Frame's treatment of the love of God and how this attribute fits into a responsible attempt at a biblically based theology.  Lastly, I would have appreciated a more in-depth critique of the literature that has been produced by open theists.  I thought that Frame hit the highlights very well and dismantled many of the most serious errors of the movement as expressed in its writings, but there were many other areas that could have been covered here that weren't.<br />So overall, a very good contribution to this ongoing debate, but in my view, we are still waiting for a truly definitive treatise that systematically and exhaustively dissects open theism across the board in a responsible fashion.  This work by Frame gets at least fairly close, but doesn't quite make it in my view.	2003-07-22
US	50142550	R1IYCMREQOLD39	1581344473	272081434	Counted Righteous in Christ: Should We Abandon the Imputation of Christ's Righteousness?	Books	5	39	42	N	N	Effectively Plugs the Leak on Justification	John Piper is among the most respected American pastors of our day, in part because he comprehensively integrates pastoral theology with biblical and systematic theology in a way that produces a full-orbed Christian perspective and grounding.  <br />In this book, Piper focuses on the imputation of righteousness that is central to the Protestant doctrine of justification by faith alone.  Many giants of the faith regard the doctrine of justification as a showstopper doctrine, essential to a right understanding of Christianity.  As such, it is no surprise that similar to other essential tenets of the faith such as the Trinity, the resurrection, and the inspiration and authority of Scripture, the doctrine of justification is a stumbling block for many that has resulted in various forms of retreat.<br />The latest retreat comes at the hands of Robert Gundry, who attempts to argue that the imputation of Christ's righteousness to the believer as a result of faith is unbiblical.  He argues instead that the inherent faith of the believer is what is counted as righteous in the act of justification, rather than a transfer of Christ's righteousness to us through faith.  While this might seem a nuanced difference, in reality, it goes straight to the core of what it means to be justified.  Gundry's view in a number of respects is much closer to Roman Catholicism's irresponsible mixing of justification and sanctification in ways that render many sections of Scripture unintelligible.  Gundry believes that the act of justification (of our inherent faith) defeats the mastery of sin over our lives (which is traditionally the separate work of sanctification), rather than a legal transfer of Christ's righteousness to us as the basis for justification and the sole grounding for subsequent sanctification.  Gundry's view represents a basic retreat on the doctrine of justification, a retreat that at its core resembles all other retreats in elevating the inherent abilities of man and takingaway from the work of God by wholly underestimating the pervasive nature of human sin and overestimating man's inherent abilities.<br />It is this position that Piper interacts with in this book.  Chapter 3 of the book is clearly the most crucial, since this is where he offers an exegetical critique of Gundry and in the process, validates the imputation of Christ's righteousness to the believer that is central to justification.  Piper's examination of Romans 1-6 in particular is outstanding, along with 2 Corinthians 5.  He builds a logical, step by step case that reveals how Gundry's position is untenable, and provides believers with a great deal of reassurance that Christ's imputed righteousness, rather than their sin-tainted acts, is the basis of our right standing with God.<br />I will note some minor quibbles with the book that deserve mention but do not significantly detract from the outstanding presentation given by Piper.  First, there are times when Piper tends to devote too much ink to peripheral points (at best).  The book is four chapters long, yet the reader will find that a good portion of the first chapter doesn't really deal with justification as much as it is a lament by Piper on the theological emptiness that pervades many evangelical churches.  And while this is certainly a view I strongly agree with, I found it a bit misplaced here.  Second, in his examination of Romans 5, Piper spends several pages trying to demonstrate that Paul had infants in mind in this passage of Scripture.  While the discussion is interesting, it is a peripheral point that is not central to Piper's overall argument that Romans 5 discusses the imputation of Christ's righteousness to the believer in contrast to the imputation of Adam's sin to all of humanity.  Lastly, Piper avoids the often thorny topic of whether faith is a gift of God or not.  While I admit that my thoughts on this are far from complete, it seems to me that this question is pertinent to the discussion on justification and has ramifications on Gundry's view and Piper's response to it.  But it seems as if the whole topic is not in view in this discussion, when I think perhaps it should be.<br />These quibbles are clearly quite minor, and as such, should not discourage potential readers from picking up this book.  The doctrine of justification is possibly the most important issue of the Christian faith that's rarely discussed, and as such, is very vulnerable to wayward error creeping in.  This book plugs the leak within the body of Christ on the question of imputation and does it in a charitable yet thorough way.  Given Gundry's history of doctrinal hiccups, I have rarely considered him to be an authority on doctrine and theology, but the fact is that many other people do consider him to be an authority.  As such, his retreat on justification deserved a high profile response from a solidly evangelical perspective.  This book is it.	2003-07-02
US	50142550	R39G29KJJLO92J	0801063914	53331764	The Parables: Understanding the Stories Jesus Told	Books	4	55	58	N	N	A Predominately Good Introduction to Parabolic Studies	When it comes to scholarly treatments of the parables of Jesus, there is a regretable shortage of quality works from an evangelical perspective.  This book by Kistemaker is one.  Much of the treatment is meaty and substantive, although as I will discuss below, the book could have been more exhaustive in this regard.<br />Among the strengths of the book are Kistemaker's interaction with more liberal views on the parables, along with a very good introduction explaining the evolution of parabolic interpretation.  Kistemaker wisely demonstrates early on that the allegorical methodology that prevailed for so long was/is rather notorious in advancing wildly speculative interpretations that helped obsure these critical teachings of Christ.  As a result, Kistemaker appears to embrace a methodology that values historical considerations at the time Jesus spoke these teachings, as well as stressing what the parables actually say as driving the interpretation, rather than musing about what is not said and basing interpretation on such fanciful musings.  In addition, in drawing wider conclusions about the messages and teachings that the parables are meant to convey, Kistemaker attempts to substantiate his application and interpretation comments in other Bible passages.  Clearly, he is working from the view that Scripture is internally consistent and can interpret itself coherently as a result.  While such a view might seem like the norm to evangelicals who hold to a high Bibliology, it is regretably not the view held by the majority of other scholars who have produced works on the parables.  As a result, the conclusions reached by Kistemaker are quite different than those of Jeremias, Linneman, and others.<br />Kistemaker analyzes virtually all of Jesus' parabolic sayings as recorded in the Synoptic gospels.  When applicable, Kistemaker analyzes terminology and structural differences between two different gospel accounts of the same parable.  There is a chapter for each parableand each chapter is less than 10 pages.  I thought Kistemaker did a good job of packing a lot of good material into compact analyses and as such, it is very accessible.<br />I gave the book 4 stars because I felt that many of the conclusions and applications made by Kistemaker could have been more in-depth.  It appeared to me that Kistemaker clearly wanted to go down the road of sticking with the obvious rather than muddying the waters with fanciful and subjective speculation concerning these teachings.  And while I certainly believe that such an approach is the right way to go, I still felt that there was room for deeper analysis of these teachings.  Many of Christ's parables have profound eschatological and christological teachings associated with them, but other than the obvious conclusions, these aspects weren't explored to as high a degree as I would have liked.<br />Nevertheless, this is a very good book that is quite accessible and also quite substantive in many areas.  A good antidote to the agenda driven approaches that have characterized much of parabolic scholarship up to this point.	2003-06-15
US	50142550	R2PTQF3RL2FSYU	080106435X	39990908	A Case for Amillennialism: Understanding the End Times	Books	5	109	113	N	N	A Formidable Exposition of Amillennialism	Kim Riddlebarger has become part of an ever increasing chorus of scholars who are challenging much of the pop eschatology that has come to define much of service level evangelicalism. This book, I believe, is possibly the best defense of amillennialism since Hoekema and as such, is a book that all dissenters of amillennialism will have to reckon with.<br />This book attempts to build a comprehensive defense of amillennialism from the ground up. It is very systematic in its presentation and I found this to be a highly attractive approach to eschatology. He spends a good amount of time in the first two sections of the book laying much needed groundwork for meaningful eschatology by getting into issues of terminology as well as biblical theology. Folks looking for a popular level of treatment here might get bogged down and even bored, but I found Riddlebarger's discussion to be very stimulating and intellectually rigorous. <br />Riddlebarger's treatment of the already/not yet tension of the kingdom of God is outstanding (including his linear comparison of the 'this age/the age to come' dynamic of eschatology). It is clear that Riddlebarger has been greatly influenced by the likes of Vos and Ridderbos in his presentation of inaugurated eschatology, and is therefore in good company. In the process, he advances a decidedly covenantal theology. Riddlebarger clearly understands that amillennialism relies a great deal on the groundwork he erects in the first 2 parts of the book. As he repeatedly notes, if the inaugurated eschatology that is based on a covenantal hermeneutic is biblically sound, those who dissent from amillennialism are going to be left scrambling.<br />Riddlebarger then moves on to Part 3, which is an exposition of key Biblical texts such as Daniel 9, Matthew 24, Romans 9-11, and Revelation 19-21. The novice to eschatology might find some rough sledding in these sections, particularly the Daniel and Romans sections, but I have to say that Riddlebarger's exegesis is thorough, logical, and compelling. This is no surface level treatment of these texts, but is rather an in-depth and well thought out presentation that interacts with a variety of views and a variety of Biblical texts in the process. Very good section.<br />In the end, while I will note a few minor weaknesses below, this book is a 'must have' on eschatology, even if one dissents from amillennialism. This book provides a framework upon which all scholars who are interested in presenting a meaningful eschatology ought to follow. He builds a case from the ground floor, offers rigorous Biblical exegesis, takes on dissenting views, and arrives at well thought out conclusions. Riddlebarger's critique of Ladd's premillennialism is very good, and his argument in favor of a substantive role for ethnic Israel in the consummation of the Kingdom from an amillennial perspective is provocative.  His critique of Robertson in particular represents, I think, where the future of amillennial scholarship is headed.<br />I will note some weaknesses of the book that, while regretable, do not detract from the otherwise outstanding presentation given here. First, his critique of dispensationalism was overstated. There is no question in my mind that the brand of dispensationalism championed by the Walvoord, LaHaye, and Ice wing of dispensationalism is thoroughly beaten to a pulp in here. And while this is certainly an exercise that has merit, the fact is that this brand of dispensationalism has been in steady retreat for the last 50 years because of the problems that have been exposed by other scholars that long predate Riddlebarger. Riddlebarger's book could have been better had he interacted more substantively with the progressive dispensational movement that is likely where the future of respectable dispensationalism is headed. He interacts with Blaising and Saucy a little bit, but not as much as I would have liked.<br />Second, Riddlebarger is occasionally guilty of employing theargument from silence to advance his points (actually to critique dissenting perspectives).  While it's true that the argument from silence is not always a logical fallacy, it must be used very carefully and tightly in order to be a legitimate debate tactic.  Unfortunately, Riddlebarger's use of it, though sparingly, struck me as getting too close for comfort to slipping into an informal fallacy.  Lastly, as others have pointed out, the book cries out for a Scripture index and topical index that isn't there.<br />So while the book isn't perfect, it is predominately outstanding and is definitely a book that will have to be contended with by those who hold to postmillennialism and all forms of premillennialism. It's definitely not the last word on the subject, but it's one of the more thoughtful and rigorous resources to hit the field of eschatology in several years.	2003-06-13
US	50142550	R2Q8YLLA3LPQ59	0060652381	453295478	A Grief Observed	Books	5	27	29	N	N	Penetrating Look at Grief	When it comes to frank discussion of difficult issues, there's often a sense in which no approach will satisfy everyone.  Those who offer a polished examination tend to be met with detractors who don't believe the approach was honest or in-depth enough.  Those who offer an unpolished but 'brutally honest' approach tend to be met with detractors who think the 'brutal honesty' is questionable in terms of theological or intellectual integrity and could have stood for more sober reflection before being published.  Because of this, a mysterious exchange occurs between writer and reader.  When writer and reader aren't on the same page in terms of purpose or expectation, a letdown is usually the result.  But on those occasions when the writer and reader make an enduring connection based on similar experiences, attitudes, etc, the result is often profound.  While such a result can be dangerous since emotional or attitudinal connectivity is not a valid measure of whether the views expressed have a basis in objective truth or not and thus make belief in error all the more easy, the result, when anchored in truth, is formidable.<br />Why do I say all this?  Because I think if someone is coming to this book looking for a presentation on suffering that is airtight in its theology, this might be a disappointment.  Lewis was no theologian, he was a layman who had an extra-ordinary desire to probe the things of God from the perspective of a layman.  As a result, many of his works, while tremendously engaging and insightful, tend to be at least somewhat loose in their fidelity to Scriptural truths, which shouldn't be surprising since Lewis did not believe in the inerrancy of Scripture.  Nonetheless, this particular effort is one of the most engaging works on suffering and grief from a Christian perspective and its insights should be taken very seriously.<br />In this book, Lewis laments the vacuum left in his life by the passing of his wife.  Along the way, he ponders out loud abouta number of basic issues surrounding the goodness of God, the meaning of life, and the purpose of grief.  The early chapters tend to be defined more by a spirit of grief resulting from an unsure anchor.  This is the section where many of the particularly engaging musings about God and life are asked and not always answered.  In the later chapters, as Lewis has further reflected on the goodness of God and the meaning of grief, his faith anchor becomes more stable, his perspective more secure, and his grief more manageable.  This is no accident of course.  What we see on these pages is one of the better Christian apologists of the 20th century having the sturdiness of his faith put to the ultimate test, and the result is a very penetrating look at grief from someone not removed from it and analyzing it from a distance, but one who is in the middle of it and is struggling with it personally.<br />In the end, the reader might well agree with Lewis that the veridicality of the worldview and value system one adopts is most demonstrated when such things literally become matters of life and death personally.  Does it merely work on paper and in the abstract, or is it also a source of absolute truth when brought home to roost in our most desperate hour.  This is a formidable test for any worldview, and one that few are willing to honestly grapple with.  Lewis does so here, and what we see is a man exposed by his grief, unable to hide behind anything else, and trying to make his worldview make sense in the midst of it.  Very penetrating, very honest.  A work that should be considered by all, but read with theological discernment.	2003-05-24
US	50142550	RDS60E95K6RPL	0310232694	523846034	God Under Fire	Books	4	24	29	N	N	Good, if not altogether focused effort	This book is yet another book to hit the market in recent years that attempts to address the open theism issue.  But unlike other books in this genre, this book does not target open theism exclusively, but attempts to critique numerous strains of questionable theology that the book's contributors believe are out of step classical Christian orthodoxy.  As will be discussed below, this is both a strength and a weakness to the book.<br />Contrary to one of the previous reviewers of this book (who either hasn't read the book or did the read the book and is deliberately misrepresenting it), this is not a book that emanates from a monolithic theological perspective.  Being a collaborative effort, there are 12 contributors who have come together in this book to deal with varying issues where they believe that God has come under fire.  Of the 12, at least 4 (and probably 5 in my view) come from a decidedly non-Calvinist perspective (one is even a Roman Catholic).  As such, this book differs from other books such as 'Beyond the Bounds' and 'Bound Only Once' which are both collaborative efforts from a Reformed perspective nearly exclusively.  The reader should take note that the theological diversity represented in this book is a formidable obstacle for the sympathizers of open theism, since it demonstrates that a diverse group of scholars who have no problem disagreeing with each other on secondary matters can unite against a theological movement that all of them see as a threat.  To say that because these folks disagree on secondary matters, they therefore have no standing to critique open theism is sort of like saying that a divorced husband and wife should not come together to raise their children responsibly since they obviously disagreed on so many other things and had therefore lost their standing to come together in any other family area.  I don't know of too many folks who would adopt such thinking there, it doesn't make any better sense to adopt it in the area of pertinence here.<br />As for the book itself, there are a number of notable strengths by specific contributors.  Perhaps unsurprisingly, DA Carson hits a homerun in his contribution which thoroughly devastates open theism's irresponsible embrace of love as trumping all other attributes of God.  Carson, drawing upon his highly commendable work in other books on the area of God's love, demonstrates that a responsible reading of Scripture results in a fundamentally different view of God than what open theists espouse.<br />In addition, Spiegel provides an excellent chapter on the whole issue of the open theist god having to play dice.  Spiegel does a good job of debunking this.  In addition, Craig nicely steps up to the plate to refute open theism from an Arminian perspective, which is quite refreshing since Arminianism, with some notable exceptions, has been less than stalwart in its repudiation of open theism.  It was nice to see several Arminian/holiness folks in this book stand up to defend classical theism.  In addition, Ware provides perhaps the best chapter in this book critiquing feminist theology, which along with open theism and process theology, is one of the main areas of thought dealt with in this book.<br />I gave the book 4 stars because I didn't feel as if the book hung together as well as it could have, nor was it as focused as it could have been.  I felt like the book tried to do too many things, and take on too many different brands of thought.  In the end, I know that the overriding theme of the book was to deal with various areas where the contributors believe that the God of orthodox Christianity is being undermined, as opposed to being a book that attempts to thoroughly critique any one kind of theology, such as open theism.  But because of the inherent nature of collaborative efforts, a fair amount of information is repeated from chapter to chapter, and I felt that while the majority of the essays are good, they didn't always dig to the root issues that have fueled the aberrant theologies that are discussed here (the issue of human freedom being the biggest one).  As such, the level of focus is less than what it could have been.<br />In addition, a number of chapters were heavily slanted toward philosophical examination, and while this is good, such examination needs to interact with Scripture.  Too often, this did not happen.  As is unfortunately the case with many of the open theism critiques, the contributors in this book stoop to the level of the open theists by arguing over philosophical imperatives and presuppositions (which is certainly not a bad thing in and of itself) to the demotion of Biblical exegesis and critique (which is a bad thing).  To date, Ware's 'God's Lesser Glory' remains the only open theist critique that provides a consistently rigorous exegetical critique.  As someone who believes that open theism is unbiblical, I nonetheless feel that perhaps part of the reason why open theism is attractive is because of the deemphasis on the kind of Biblical exegesis that is rooted in defendable hermeneutics that has become a scandal within evangelicalism.  Unfortunately, with each passing critique of open theism that treats Biblical exegesis less seriously than other things (such as philosophical or emotional imperatives), I can't help but think that evangelical scholars are contributing in some degree to this scandal in irresponsible ways.  <br />So in summary, this book is good for what it does, but it could have done it better and it is certainly a legitimate question as to whether what it's trying to do methodologically really delivers the mail here.  Carson mentioned in his chapter that he is working on his own critique of open theism.  It is strongly hoped by this reader that his critique will focus upon Biblical exegesis first and foremost.	2003-05-22
US	50142550	R7PYWH5OHSQY6	1885767846	902143000	Bound Only Once: The Failure of Open Theism	Books	3	29	32	N	N	A Mixed Bag	Classical evangelicalism is to be congratulated for stepping up to the plate to answer the threat of open theism.  In the last 7 years or so, nearly a dozen major books and many more journal articles and debates have been produced critiquing the open theist perspective.  The result has been a growing awareness on the part of the larger body of Christ that open theism, while appealing to us in our humanness, is a fatally flawed theology of inconsistency that results in a different god and a different view of the world from the one articulated in Scripture.<br />This particular book is one of the books that have attempted to demonstrate the inadequacy of open theism.  As I will mention below, there are several very good aspects of this book, and I believe that the parts of this book that are good are good enough to recommend the book.  But on balance, and particularly in comparison to other evangelical books on this subject, it comes up short to a degree that a 3 star rating is called for.<br />Like other books critiquing open theism, this is a collaborative effort where specific authors are asked to write about specific topics related to open theism.  As I will mention below, this approach comes back to haunt this book.  But one of things about this that is good is that there are specific chapters written by specific authors that stand on their own as being outstanding and are fairly untainted by the other less than superb chapters written by others.<br />Of the 12 chapters of the book, about half of them deserve commendation.  I found Jones' chapter on metaphor to be the most engaging and scholarly.  In this chapter, he demonstrates quite effectively that the hermeneutic of open theism is unbiblical in its selective denial of the legitimacy of metaphor, and that this denial at its core, is the worst kind of illogic since it regularly results in the views of open theists being rampantly self defeating.  A number of other books have tackled this foundational weaknessof open theism, but in many ways, Jones' contribution here might be the best succinct critique available.<br />In addition, Frame provides a very good chapter on foreknowledge, although the reader should take Frame to heart when he comments in some of his footnotes that his 'Doctrine of God' book is really the place to go to get a more comprehensive and scholarly critique of the foreknowledge debate.  MacArthur's chapter on the atonement was solid, though it could have stood for improvement.  Johnson's chapter on impassibility is another very good chapter that attempts to take on what is perhaps the biggest area of theology where open theists believe they hold the best cards.  Wilson's chapter on theological knowledge is also good and to some degree, makes up for his rather bad chapter on the loveliness of orthodoxy and the epilogue.  Lastly, Ascol provides a good pastoral critique of open theism.  These chapters, and particularly the chapters by Johnson and Jones, make the book worthy of purchase.<br />Given what I've said above, I was most dismayed that the quality of those chapters were comingled with other chapters that were as weak as they are.  In many of the remaining chapters, the authors routinely set up strawmen to tear down (Sproul Jr. in particular was guilty of this), played a game of what I call 'scholarly demonization' where they attempted to lump open theists into other groups of thinkers that Christians more easily recognize as threats.  And in the end, this fundamentally undermines the integrity of the book.  One of the stated goals is that open theism is nothing new, but is merely the latest reincarnation of socinian and enlightenment thinking.  A number of chapters are dedicated to attempting to prove this link.  Those efforts are only partially successful in large part because other authors undermine this assertion by saying that open theism is actually a product of postmodern, feel-good thinking, which is antithetical to enlightenment modernism.  The discerning reader might well conclude that the authors are not only unsure of exactly what they're trying to prove, but actively employ an 'any stick will do' approach to go after open theism, even if such an approach results in assertions flatly contradicting each other from chapter to chapter.  I have respect for Douglas Wilson, who is the editor of this book.  But he fails rather badly in his role here, and allows the book to become an inconsistent and emotionalistic rant at times, which is quite dubious since in many ways, this ends up only immitating many of the 'scholarly' works put out by open theists.<br />So overall, a mixed bag.  A number of quality contributions that definitely deserve reading and contemplation are unfortunately mixed in with several chapters that frankly never should have made it to print.  As a result, I recommend this book with the urgent caveat of separating the wheat from the chaff.	2003-05-12
US	50142550	R33YXRGWQZ2T3	0764225243	258268082	The Same Sex Controversy: Defending and Clarifying the Bible's Message About Homosexuality	Books	3	33	45	N	N	A Decent Popular Level Treatment of Explosive Issue	Let me say up front that my 3 star rating may not be indicative of how good this book is.  As I will explain below, I think the book is between 3 and 4 stars, and whether one should give the book a 3 or 4 star rating depends on the type of reader who reads the book.<br />White and Neill have rightly felt called to put pen to paper and attempt a formal response to what they feel is the increasing decibal level of those within the church who are urging a legitimization of homosexuality within Christianity.  I agree with the authors that this is a challenge that deserves an answer, and I applaud the authors for stepping into the middle of what is becoming a warzone where this issue is ground zero.<br />In this book, the authors attempt to accomplish two basic things.  They seek, through their own exegesis, to maintain the traditional Christian view regarding homosexuality - this it is incompatible with the Bible's teachings.  Second, they attempt to critique many of the arguments that have recently been made by more liberal Christians advocating compatibility between Christianity and 'modern day monogamous homosexual intimacy'.  In both of these areas, the authors hit on some good points and produce some sustained strengths.  But in the end, I felt that the authors came up short too often, thus the less than flattering review I'm giving it.<br />Among the sustained strengths of the book are the identification of Biblical hermeneutics and authority as being the core issue of debate.  White and Neill rightly emphasize that Biblical authority is really what's on trial in this debate, and do a good job of demonstrating that apologists for homosexual legitimacy within Christianity are forced to adopt an inconsistent and very weak Bibliology that necessarily discounts entire sections of the Bible.  In this vein, the authors do a good job of dealing with the Old Testament law and effectively outlining a Biblical basis for applicability of Leviticus 18 and 20.  In addition, the authors mostly succeed in dismantling the exegetical rationales offered by the other side and showing them to be amateurish and logically flawed in many cases.<br />Having said all that, the book itself is flawed in a number of ways.  First, the book does not answer every argument given by the other side and in particular, the book does not deal with two central arguments of the pro-homosexual side - the relationship of David and Jonathan in the Old Testament, and the argument that Jesus Himself never condemned homosexuality.  The lack of treatment of the first of these arguments in particular is a glaring oversight that leaves the book decidedly deficient in the very area that is supposed to be its strength.  Secondly, while White's exegesis of Romans 1 and other pertinent passages is quite good most of the time, the exegetical responses to the other side's exegetical arguments are often too surface level.  The point to be made here is that while the authors do a good job in showing that the arguments coming from the other side tend to be from the low rent district of scholarship, it appeared to me that the authors fall prey to this by sinking to the level of the arguments and offering less than thorough responses.  It's as if the authors concluded that many of the arguments were so bad they didn't deserve much of a response, but if that's so, they shouldn't have written a book with the express intent of refuting such arguments.<br />Lastly, the main reason I'm giving the book 3 stars is because I expected better from White.  White is one of the more outstanding exegetes around, and it was clear from his fairly recent debate with Barry Lynn on the homosexual issue that he has firm command of the pertinent issues and can devastate the other side in a debate, as he did with Lynn.  Yet in this book, I did not find a high level of rigor in the critiques, certainly not the level that we're used to seeing from White.  In the end, I had expectations for something more scholarly and more rigorous, and this book doesn't really produce it in sufficient quantity.<br />However, I think that because this book is purely a popular level of treatment, someone looking for an introductory work on this issue will likely find many things of great value in this work.  I think if that's the kind of reader who is contemplating looking at this book, a 4 star rating is appropriate.  But for someone who wants a more comprehensive analysis, the book is a decidedly qualified success.  On the back cover of this book, Fred Zaspel claims that he knows of no other book that so thoroughly deals with this issue.  If this opinion is right, that's bad news for those who hold to the traditional view, because the book is not thorough and not very in-depth, in my opinion.	2003-05-02
US	50142550	R32FSFXGIEGFK2	0875523897	781490735	Postmillennialism: An Eschatology of Hope	Books	4	47	49	N	N	Makes Postmillenialism viable and respectable	This book by Mathison is one of the better contemporary apologies for postmillenialism available.  The book touches upon many aspects of the eschatology debate, and rightfully spends some time laying the groundwork for meaningful eschatology.  <br />The goal of this book is to demonstrate that postmillenialism is the eschatology that is the most faithful to the whole counsel of Scripture and that it is an end times view that has been held by several prominent evangelicals for centuries.  To help demonstrate these things, Mathison spends a fair amount of time at the outset charting the historical progression of eschatological thought in the church as well as advocating a decidedly covenantal approach to biblical theology.  Once this foundation is laid, he then proceeds to argue for a partial preterist postmillenialism.<br />As one who picked up this book who was decidedly unimpressed with the respectability of postmillenialism, I thought that Mathison did a good job of demonstrating that postmillenialism is not a wishful thinking eschatology with no Biblical or theological rationale, but is in fact a very viable eschatological perspective that deserves serious attention and consideration.  Among the strengths of the book are the myriad of issues covered, including a very timely critique of full preterism at the end, as well as a systematic approach to dealing with many relevant Scripture passages.<br />But while Mathison's approach was very good, his execution could have been better in some areas, thus, the 4 star rating I'm giving the book.  There were 2 main weaknesses in this book that should give readers pause before wholeheartedly subscribing to postmillenialism based solely on Mathison's work here.  First, the broadness of Mathison's approach to Scripture is impressive, but his depth of exegesis isn't always so.  In particular, his analysis of Revelation chapter 20 was quite weak, in my view.  The basic problem that has long plagued both postmillenialism and amillenialism is in trying to justify their view that the 1,000 years described in Revelation 20 is an inter-advental period as opposed to a purely future event.  Hoekema probably did the best job of arguing for this position, but I felt Mathison simply punted on the whole issue by insisting that the difficulty of the passage should not make it a primary proof text for any particular eschatological view.  And while this is a view I sympathize with, the inability to offer a plausible alternative based upon exegesis of that passage is problematic.<br />The second biggest weakness of this book is that Mathison regularly lumps both historic and dispensational premillenialism into one bucket.  Mathison clearly knows the difference between the two, but by lumping historic premil into dispensationalism, it allowed Mathison to avoid having to deal with the most articulate modern advocate of historic premil, George Eldon Ladd.  Throughout the book, and especially in Mathison's critique of premillenialism, I was waiting for Mathison to meaningfully interact with Ladd.  But for the most part, he doesn't.  This is problematic to say the least, since Mathison himself acknowledges Ladd as being the best defender of the historic premil view, but then doesn't interact with him hardly at all.<br />So while this is a solid articulation of postmillenialism and voices many views and theological methods that I sympathize with, the book has enough substantive weaknesses in it to make less than a slam dunk case.	2003-04-15
US	50142550	R1XI6IMJ7VDQ4I	0800753429	942576028	The Bondage of the Will	Books	5	22	25	N	N	Still a Crippling Indictment of 'Free Will'	This treatise by Martin Luther laid down in unmistakeable terms a clear line between the Reformers and Rome that has still not been resolved.  And while modern readers may be taken aback by the overly polemical tone of Luther, this book nonetheless constitutes the most definitive Reformation era writing on the issue of free will.<br />Just as the debate between Augustine and Pelagius represented a dividing line that distinguished Christianity from non-Christianity, so this debate between Luther and Erasmus demonstrated just how close the Roman Catholic Church was (and is) to adopting the basic premises of Pelagianism that it had previously and rightly condemned.  There is little doubt that Luther's heated passion about the need for reform in the Roman Catholic Church stemmed from the belief that the church was far flung on basic issues of doctrine, free will being one of the biggest.<br />As is described in the introduction to this book, it is clear that when Erasmus wrote his 'Diatribe' which precipitated this book-length response from Luther, he was writing as a person who was not particularly passionate about the issue and it showed in his writing.  Erasmus was uncharacteristically careless in his Diatribe, and Luther makes him pay for it painfully in this book.  Repeatedly citing Erasmus's contention/concession that the 'probable' correct view on the human will is that it can do no good, Luther proceeds to systematically dismantle the rest of Erasmus's treatise which contradicts that concession.  Basically, Erasmus, like much of present day Arminianism, tried to have it both ways.  Unable to deal with the many texts in Scripture describing the sinful state of humanity, they attempt to assert that while man is thoroughly sinful, he really isn't thoroughly sinful and has a free will that defies his sinful nature.  It is this basic extrabiblical imperative of Erasmus that Luther destroys here.  He eloquently demonstrates that one cannot have it both ways, and thatthe repeated plain teaching of Scripture militates against the free will imperatives that Erasmus forces onto the text.  In particular, Luther is masterful in dealing with the exhortation commands in Scripture and demonstrating that such commands are not indicative of man's ability, but of God's holiness and man's obligation to that holiness - which should clearly lead man to fall at the mercy God's grace once it's clear that his ability cannot satisfy his obligation to God.<br />One can also get the basics of Luther's view on the law as well.  The blueprint of the traditional Lutheran understanding of an antithetical relationship between law and grace can be seen in several places in Luther's book here.  Also, it is quite ironic that in certain places in this book, Luther appears to strongly endorse what is known as 'double predestination', which the modern Lutheran church emphatically rejects.<br />While Luther's critique of the Diatribe is outstanding, the last chapter of this book, which summarizes Luther's own view on free will is perhaps the best part of the book.  Here, he does outstanding exegesis on Romans 3 and 4, in addition to selected texts from John that have been the lynchpin of the non-Arminian Protestant position concerning free will and human ability.  While I don't think the reader can consider Luther to be the final voice on this issue since the free will debate has evolved and become more nuanced since the writing of this book, it is nonetheless a riveting starting point to studying what the Reformers thought about this issue and to get to the origins of the free will debate.<br />Erasmus never recovered from the beating he took in this book.  Luther was passionate about this issue, and it shows in his writing style and relentless engagement of the issue.  While one could do without Luther's polemics, his passion should be a good object lesson for those in the church today who attempt to minimize or paper over critical doctrinal disagreements.To do so is to fundamentally betray the spirit of the Reformation that we draw our spiritual heritage from.	2003-04-10
US	50142550	R2NJ9NRV676N6T	0875525482	889312138	The Westminster Shorter Catechism in Modern English	Books	5	69	70	N	N	An Outstanding, Multi-Purpose Teaching Tool	This modern translation of the Westminster Shorter Catechism has become the standard modern rendering of this catechism and is a most profitable tool.<br />As is indicated in the short introduction to this work, the authors/translators were committed to making the Shorter Catechism accessible to today's readers in order to maintain its viability as a modern teaching tool and liturgical reference.  The original language of the Shorter Catechism is sometimes difficult to follow, and this resulted in a decreasing emphasis upon its use.  This translation eliminates this problem, and allows for a succinct and very faithful reintroduction of the Shorter Catechism to the masses via Reformed liturgy and instruction.<br />This modern version is quite lucid.  As a result, it is a teaching tool that can be used with children, as well as incorporating it into regular worship in ways that seasoned Christians, new Christians, and interested non-Christians can understand and follow.  As I will mention below, this is really critical.<br />It is important to address the major objection that always seems to come up whenever there is an undertaking to produce a 'modern rendering' of some centuries old work.  Inevitably, the charge of 'dumbing down' is raised, where it is asserted that by creating a modern version, the accuracy of the original is compromised for the sake of contemporary ease of comprehension.  And while I think this objection always has merit to the extent that we should always be very discerning about the faithfulness of any modern work to the original, I find that this particular objection is not valid in this instance.  This modern rendering is very faithful to the original, and very accurate in communicating the distinctive truths of Reformed theology.  In works like this, there has to be a balance between accessibility and accuracy.  Jettisoning accuracy in the interest of accessibility is a bad idea that should always be rejected.  However, that does not universally mean that it is impossible to accurately and faithfully make a previously inaccessible work accessible to people today.  As a result, I believe this modern rendering is keeping with perhaps the greatest ecclesiastical tenet of the Reformation - the belief that Scripture should be accessible and available to laypeople, rather than confined among a powerful ecclesiastical elite.  As the Reformation produced an explosion of Bible knowledge among the masses as a result of taking the Bible out of the priests of Rome and affirming the priesthood of all believers, so this work should take the Shorter Catechism out of the realm of the seminaries and back to the churches as a vibrant and vital teaching tool of Reformed theology.  Highly recommended.	2003-04-07
US	50142550	R391N6S3B7YFL5	1581344627	415204158	Beyond the Bounds: Open Theism and the Undermining of Biblical Christianity	Books	5	66	84	N	N	Not Perfect, but maybe the best critique currently available	As of the time of this review, this book is hot off the press and has been a book eagerly anticipated by many.  And while the book is not perfect, as I will discuss below, there are a number of things about this critique that make it the best critique of open theism available at present.<br />Piper and company have assembled an impressive group of mainly Reformed scholars to tackle numerous issues regarding open theism.  Almost every chapter is well documented, with numerous and lengthy footnotes accompanying much of the base material.  There is a great deal here to ponder and study, and I suspect that many readers who are relatively familiar with the open theism controversy will be struck by the depth in which this book engages fundamental questions of hermeneutics and theological method.<br />I think there is little doubt that for the average reader, Parts 4 and 5 will be the best parts of the book.  In these parts, various authors tackle critical theological and pastoral problems that open theism creates, and these are the kinds of issues that the average reader will most identify with and profit from I suspect.  In particular, Wellum's critique of open theism's necessary compromise of the inerrancy of Scripture is outstanding, along with Ware's devastating analysis of how the gospel of Christ is gutted by open theism.  The tackling of these critical theological ramifications is the part of this book that I felt was critically missing from Ware's 'God's Lesser Glory' book (which has been generally acknowledged to be the most devastating critique of open theism thus far, and was the book that really delivered the first mortal blow to open theism and got Boyd and company to play defense ever since), so in that respect, this book is an outstanding companion to that book.<br />The first parts of this book are great and necessary, but are likely to be sections that will take many readers by surprise.  It is in these sections that attempts are made to discredit the inconsistent hermeneutic (to put it nicely) of open theism, as well as to discredit the much trumpeted assertion by open theists that historical theism is based on Greek philosophical ideas that are not found in the Bible.  In addition, the section on the analogical nature of Scripture and the treatment of anthropomorphisms is likewise outstanding.<br />The one notable drawback of this book is that Biblical exegesis is not the thrust of this book.  There are times when solid exegesis is conducted, but this book is not an exegetical critique of open theism.  It's mainly a negative philosophical, methodological, and worldview critique that rightly exposes the mess that open theism is as a matter of scholarship.  But someone looking for a sustained emphasis on Biblical exegesis of controversial passages, as well as a Biblical analysis of those many areas of Scripture that contradict open theism may be somewhat dissatisfied by the efforts here.  There are other resources that deal with these issues, but it is the one critical area where this book lets open theism off the hook.  This is unfortunate because as a result of this, this book, while perhaps the most comprehensive critique of open theism available, still ends up joining all of the other able critiques in doing serious damage to open theism, but not delivering the kind of comprehensive 'shock and awe' that it was capable of.<br />Nonetheless, for what this book deals with, it is outstanding and perhaps best of all, very current.  The thought of Greg Boyd in particular has been in a seemingly constant state of modification and flux in recent years in his attempts to do damage control.  His latest neo-molinist concoction gets a great deal of attention in this book where it is demonstrated to be a wholly inadequate solution to the problems his open theist perspective creates across the board.  I highly recommend this book and believe that in many ways, it will become the book that open theists feel most compelled to respond to in light of the lucid and cogent arguments it lobs at open theism.	2003-04-05
US	50142550	R2GVSX0MDODLYR	0898705525	816806068	Orthodoxy	Books	4	100	134	N	N	Quite Good, with some exceptions	Chesterton, not unlike Peter Kreeft, is a Roman Catholic thinker who has gained a noticeable readership among the ranks of evangelicals.  This particular book is regularly referred to and relied upon in evangelical works on all sorts of subjects.  As such, it is a book that evangelicals should read and take notice of.  And clearly, it is a book that many Roman Catholics will empathize with due to its clear advancement of the Roman Catholic church as the purest and most correct source of religion.<br />As has been pointed out by others, in advancing Christian orthodoxy, Chesterton takes a decidedly unorthodox approach.  Instead of advancing objective evidences or elaborate philosophical arguments, he chooses instead an approach that is actually quite funny in a way - an approach that at its core, resembles Calvinistic presuppositionalism.  This is funny since Chesterton, on more than one occasion in this book, flippantly rejects all things Calvinistic, yet I found his entire book to be rooted in an apologetic approach that is in many ways similar to Van Til.  He asserts, consistently with Van Tillianism, that those who offer objections to Christianity fundamentally lack an epistemic basis to do so since their objections presuppose and rely upon Christian values, the origin of which they later argue against.  This is brought out very clearly in his 'Paradoxes of Christianity' chapter where he critiques the hopeless inconsistency of Christianity's critics.  This was a real treat to read.<br />In the end, Chesterton advances the view that wonder, happiness, joy, and a proper balance between optimism and pessimism can only be found in Christianity.  This conclusion is based upon his own experience, and bolstered by many hypothetical and theoretical examples meant to further the point. <br />I gave the book 4 stars instead of 5 for reasons that others might deem unfair.  While there were many sections of this book that were very insightful and on point, there were also sections where Chesterton seemed to be rambling toward no particular end.  This might be an unfair criticism because the book was not meant to be a systematic apologetic for Christianity, but instead a semi-autobiographical account that charts Chesterton's own thought process.  As a result, the reader will also notice that Orthodoxy is a work that is nearly devoid of Biblical references, much less exegesis.  I found this problematic precisely because one could read this book, conclude that Chesterton was completely right in everything he said, and still be able to reject Christianity completely since the book did not interact at all with Biblical truths.<br />Lastly, I must say having read this book, it is no surprise to me that a guy like Philip Yancey would be bonkers over it (Yancey wrote the introduction to the edition of the book I read).  Chesterton was a man who embraced Roman Catholicism in a Protestant environment, and did so defiantly.  In many ways, Chesterton writes as if he is an army of one.  Not coincidentally, this also tends to be the attitude that Yancey has adopted relative to his views within evangelicalism.  As such, Yancey's introduction to this book mindlessly strikes out against other evangelicals who don't see the world the way he does, and it is clear that his inspiration lies at least in part in Chesterton.  I couldn't help but get the feeling that both of these individuals, to greater or lesser degrees, came to embrace the idea of being contrary for the sake of being contrary, and then justifying it with language extolling the virtue of being revolutionary, as if this is supposed to be an end in itself.  It is admittedly hard for me to have much respect for such views, and maybe I'm misreading both men.  But that was certainly the indication I got after reading this book, and it is a position that is not only anti-intellectual, but easily becomes completely self-serving.<br />In the end, the book is a good read which makes many insightful points.  Chesterton clearly believed that truth should translate to joy and wonder.  This is certainly a message that all believers should pay attention to, and to this end, I think this book succeeds.	2003-03-19
US	50142550	RRWKAKR9BF2K1	0875521126	979706241	The Reformed Doctrine of Predestination	Books	5	15	19	N	N	Extensive apology for Calvinism	As this work shows, Boettner was greatly influenced by the great Princeton theologians such as Warfield and Hodge.  Both of these men were deep advocates of the system of theology known as Calvinism.   Warfield believed that evangelicalism stands or falls with Calvinism, and Hodge wrote one of the great systematic treatments of Calvinism ever produced.  To these efforts, Boettner adds this work which expounds on Calvinism generally, and the reformed doctrine of predestination specifically.<br />The book is broken up into 5 sections - establishing the reality of predestination in Scripture, expounding on the 5 points of Calvinism, answering Arminian objections to Calvinism, and then looking at Calvinism in history and its meaning to the Christian life.  Each section is good, with some being better than others.  The section which responds to the Arminian objections to the doctrines of grace is the best section, and in particular, decimates objections against exertion and evangelism.<br />Boettner's treatment of Calvinism in history is a bit dated, but still informative when taken up to the time when he wrote this book.  In particular, Boettner eloquently demonstrates that Calvinism is a theology that while centered on the sovereignty and holiness of God, produces a level of human action that is unparalleled.  This says a great deal not only about the viability of Calvinism, but also of the problematic nature of man-centered theologies like Arminianism which have actually failed to inspire the level of human action and world change that Calvinism can rightly lay claim to.<br />The one weakness of the book is that while Boettner extensively quotes Scripture to establish his views, his exegesis is not as strong as it should be, and this is a disappointment.  It was clear that Boettner was attempting to demonstrate that the clear, plain and repeated teachings of Scripture plainly support Calvinism in such a way that to take issue with these teachings requires rather elaborate and exotic (not to mention mostly erroneous) reinterpretations in order to get around them.  While this is certainly true, it would nonetheless have been helpful had Boettner made a greater investment in Biblical exegesis.<br />So while it's not perfect, it is nonetheless a mostly persuasive apology for Calvinism that continued the great tradition of old Princeton to demand a coherent theology that is faithful to Scripture and can refute the best arguments made against it.	2003-03-17
US	50142550	R1465KNCPT3LGV	0140446451	478752347	Pensees (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	89	98	N	N	Pascal is hard to pigeonhole	This book, representing Pascal's 'pensees', or thoughts, contains many provocative views that have managed to arouse critics from many different perspectives.  And while there are several strains of Pascal's thought that I considerably dissent from, it can hardly be denied that in many ways, Pascal's insights into human character as it relates to the divine are not easily dismissed, at least intellectually.<br />Because this work is a collection of thoughts rather than a systematic presentation, which is what Pascal ultimately had in mind but his illness and subsequent death prevented, the reader will likely find Pascal to be quite quotable.  There are quite a few 'one liners' in here that are profound to the point of being humorous when one thinks about how insightful his thoughts are.  And Pascal, in arguing in favor of the truth of Christianity, makes a very big investment in fulfilled prophecy and the history of the Jews that readers should find interesting.  His 8 page discourse on indifference at the beginning of the second section is among the best 8 pages I've ever read and have succeeded in providing a noticeable amount of discomfort for atheists for three centuries now.<br />The portion of Pensees that is the most well known is Pascal's wager argument early in the second section.  Personally, this argument, while interesting, is not the most compelling argument he makes and I consider it a shame that the wager argument has really overshadowed what I believe to be Pascal's most provocative argument in favor of the Christian religion - his anthropological argument.  While not stated in this manner, section 1 of Pensees spends considerable time developing the notion that the extreme paradox of humanity (as Pascal sees it) of both immense greatness and horrible evil demand an explanation.  How can man be both, and what worldview best explains this clear reality?  These are the questions that Pascal presents, and he argues that only the Biblical narrative of man from creation forward provides an intelligent framework upon which to explain the human condition adequately.  It is a very provocative argument that a number of thoughtful theologians from Groothuis to McKenzie have opined upon quite recently, and it is an argument that deserves extensive thought not just about the Christian religion, but about the very nature of man and whether Pascal's grasp of it is correct or not.  I have found that one can take the sketches of the argument put forward by Pascal here and get into some very deep anthropological water that is healthy, even if one ultimately takes issue with Pascal's paradox.<br />Being a Jansenist, Pascal was not as willing as mainstream Roman Catholicism to rely on human reason, believing that man's 'wretchedness' calls such reason into question.  As such, the reader will notice that Pascal tends to employ a general polemic against reason, even though he clearly refutes the complete abandonment of reason.  But as part of this general polemic, he clearly distrusts natural theology as well as the rationalizations of the philosophers (which is kind of ironic), believing that philosophical rationalizing is ultimately an impediment to faith.  It is in these basic areas (and a few others) which I respectfully dissent from Pascal in varying degrees.  Pascal intends here to walk a fine line between what he believed to be the logical absurdity of faith in complete contradiction to reason, but also of the bankruptcy as he saw it of reason alone becoming the basis for our faith.  In my own reading of the book, my view is that Pascal devoted more energy to dealing with the latter concern than the former.<br />A highly provocative book that has, and will continue to arouse thought and contemplation at the deepest levels.	2003-02-26
US	50142550	R331UMCPWYCONX	0802811434	81149839	Redemption Accomplished and Applied	Books	5	61	62	N	N	A Standard Exposition of Reformed Soteriology	John Murray was the systematic theology professor at Westminster Seminary for many years and as such, held one of the most high profile and influential academic positions within the ranks of reformed theology.  This particular book was his attempt to succinctly outline the tenets of reformed soteriology, and it has become a standard text that multitudes of later pastors, teachers, and theologians have drawn from in their works.<br />The book is divided into two basic sections.  The first section analyzes the accomplishment of the atonement.  This is the section where Murray argues in favor of the most disputed point of the 5 points of Calvinism, 'limited atonement'.  It is also the section where Murray puts forward the somewhat controversial doctrine of divine alienation, which says that the reconciling act of the atonement did much more to address God's holy alienation from us than it did to address our alienation from God.  This doctrine tends to go against modern views which say that reconciliation is purely an event where we become reconciled to God as soon as we exercise faith, and that's it.  Murray takes exception to this by saying that alienation is not purely humanity's alienation from God, but also God's holy alienation from us as a result of our sin and that this holy alienation must also be addressed in order for genuine reconciliation to be possible.  Murray does a very good job of analyzing this area and might well be the most profitable part of the book from a purely theological perspective since this aspect of the atonement is rarely thought about or discussed.<br />The second section of the book is where Murray puts forth the classic reformed understanding of the ordo salutis.  This is the section where Murray argues that monergistic regeneration precedes faith and makes a faith response on our part possible.  This is one of the main aspects of reformed soteriology that is an affront to the anthropocentric soteriology held sacred by much of Christendom.  However, I happen to strongly agree with Murray here.  His analysis of regeneration, justification, sanctification, and perseverance are all very good.<br />The one area where I thought the book lacked a bit was in Murray's exposition of limited atonement.  I personally thought that this section could have been beefed up considerably, and it surprised me that Murray didn't make a bigger investment here in defending this doctrine, knowing full well that this doctrine is a source of intense controversy.  For what Murray says, he does quite well.  But there was much here that didn't get said, and a number of difficult Scripture passages that weren't really dealt with, and as a result, I think someone who wants to read an exhaustive defense of limited atonement will not be able to rely completely on this book.  <br />However, I want to make clear that even though the limited atonement section is arguably a little thin, I do think that Murray makes a good case for limited atonement, while making very compelling cases for many of the other doctrines that he discusses in the book.  Definitely an important read for Christians of all stripes and at all levels of Christian maturity.  Very profitable for both the beginner and the seasoned believer.	2003-02-24
US	50142550	R2ECQM4H44BP6E	080106287X	910476382	Making Sense of the Trinity: Three Crucial Questions	Books	5	25	31	N	N	Surprisingly comprehensive in its relative briefness	I picked up this book by Millard Erickson expecting a rather basic look at trinitarianism that might prove helpful in discussing the doctrine of the Trinity on a basic level with folks who have introductory level questions about it.  And while it's true that the book is predominately a beginner level book, I nonetheless found it to be quite thorough in a number of places that I found very rewarding.<br />The book is less than 100 pages, and in it, Erickson seeks to tackle three main questions - is the Trinity biblical, is it rationally coherent, and is it at all relevant to anything.  While there have certainly been more exhaustive treatises written which address the first two questions, I thought that Erickson did a good job of analyzing them at a top level while still being pretty thorough.  His analysis of deviations from the orthodox view of the Trinity was especially good for purposes of making it clear to the reader that the Trinity is an exacting doctrine that requires both exacting language and exacting thought in order to be true to the Bible.<br />Erickson's attempt at sorting through the rationality of the 'Three in One' aspect of the Trinity was also very interesting, as was his analysis of Trinitarian prayer.  In particular, I appreciated his analysis of the functional subordination aspect of the Trinity that is too often neglected in other studies of the Trinity, as well as his proper focus on the Holy Spirit which is likewise treated almost as an afterthought in many studies of the Trinity.<br />Overall, I think this is an outstanding beginner level book that not only takes on basic questions with easy to follow answers, but also digs a bit to take on more difficult questions both Biblically and philosophically.  An outstanding resource for one who wants to become firmly rooted in the orthodox doctrine of the Trinity.	2003-02-22
US	50142550	R1YKCYYWN4EXWE	0891079378	268705565	The Cross and Salvation: The Doctrine of Salvation (Foundations of Evangelical Theology)	Books	5	26	27	N	N	A 'Must Have' on Soteriology	This book was the first in the 'Foundations of Evangelical Theology' series.  Demarest's book, coupled with the Theology Proper book by Feinberg, has definitely gotten this particular theology series off on an outstanding note.  Demarest provides what might be the most exhaustive analysis of salvation from an evangelical perspective in decades, and it is therefore a must have book in my opinion, despite not agreeing with him on several things.<br />I was very attracted to Demarest's methodology in this book.  Each chapter is divided into sections which first ask highly engaging questions about the particular doctrine being discussed (regeneration, faith, justification, etc), then engages in a very good historical treatment, followed by an exposition of the view that Demarest personally favors, concluded by practical application and meaning of the doctrine.  Demarest's historical theology treatment was consistently outstanding in each chapter.  In fact, it could be argued that in some ways, Demarest's entire book is as much a historical theology book as it is a systematic theology text.  But I found the historical theology sections of each chapter to be fantastic, and also to be very accurate in presenting the views of each doctrine held by the major theological camps within (and outside) Christianity.<br />This book is thorough in exploring and analyzing the Scripture passages that impact on the doctrine of salvation.  Demarest is writing from a 'moderately reformed' perspective, although in many areas, I found Demarest to be solidly reformed with a few notable exceptions.  The book is exhaustively documented, with nearly every chapter containing at least 70+ footnotes.  The thoughts and positions of Calvin, Luther, Finney, Pelagius, Augustine, Barth, Spurgeon, Wesley and others, including a number of pivotal confessions and church councils are thoroughly looked at.  Demarest's treatment of the original Greek and Hebrew is impressive, and the entire doctrine of salvation was covered in great detail, in my view.<br />I am providing this glowing review in spite of a couple disagreements I have with Demarest's positions here (putting faith before regeneration in the ordo salutis being the biggest one).  It also seemed like there were an abnormally high number of typos in certain spots, especially in the footnotes.  Lastly, the one small area where I thought Demarest was a bit sloppy was on the question of Christian unity in Chapter 8 and his unqualified tome on the need for all Christians of all stripes to work together.  While it's hard to disagree with this sentiment, offering it up completely unqualified and without any guidelines for preserving doctrinal and personal purity in such cooperation struck me as a very incomplete and rather unguarded position that lurches far too close to the mushy ecumenism that most evangelicals (me included) have serious problems with, and rightly so.<br />But despite my disagreements with some of Demarest's presentation, I firmly believe this book to be a comprehensive and outstanding treatment of soteriology that serious students of theology should read and contemplate.  Demarest has done the body of Christ a great service in putting together such an exhaustive treatment of this pivotal doctrine.  Highly recommended.	2003-02-19
US	50142550	R3GNUTAY587NZI	1581343167	641355416	The Holy Bible: English Standard Version (Red Letter Edition)	Books	5	11	17	N	N	Best of the 'Literal' Translations	The ESV, in terms of translation technique, is the antithesis of the NIV and certainly other translations like the NLT and the Message.  Whereas these other translations stress a 'thought for thought' concept in translational technique, the ESV advertises itself as a literalistic translation that focuses on literal word translation rather than thought or conceptual translation.  And while one of the results of this that's arguably negative (though I don't think so) is the sometimes repetitive nature of the ESV, I found this translational approach to be solid, and undertaken in a scholarly way here.<br />The concordance at the end is a sufficient reference for many lay readers of Scripture, and the maps are also quite helpful, particularly in giving the reader the opportunity to geographically picture where events and battles took place in books like Joshua, Judges, 1 Samuel, etc.  <br />Clearly, I think this translation is especially profitable for serious readers of Scripture or seminary students as far as word studies are concerned.  A 'thought for thought' translation works very well in the pulpits and speaks well to the masses, but their drawback tends to be that such translations, from the perspective of word studies and linguistical analysis, are a little problematic precisely because the translations aren't designed to be literalistic but conceptualistic.  The ESV is a far better translation for such an endeavor, in addition to being a smooth read.  Highly recommended, especially for seminary students and professional theologians.	2003-01-30
US	50142550	RFEEQHWSLXVWY	1581344252	175386997	Love in Hard Places	Books	5	48	48	N	N	Possibly the best Christian book written in 2002	It's hard to go wrong when a reader picks up a book written by D.A. Carson.  His mastery of Biblical exposition and exegesis, coupled with a very keen awareness of contemporary culture, make him one of the most informed evangelical voices on matters of Christianity and the culture.  This particular book does not disappoint.<br />This book's origin was a series of lectures that Carson gave just prior to the attacks of 9/11/01.  Initially, the lectures were designed to address the very real and difficult situations that Christians find themselves in relative to exercising Christian love.  This book takes much of the core lecture material and expounds upon it, particularly in regards to Christian love towards Bin Laden.  It is a book that raises many difficult questions and seeks to find answers in Scripture that are defendable.<br />Carson begins by demonstrating the falsity of glib definitions of Christian love, and in doing so, demonstrates to the reader that Christian love is not a concept of bumper sticker simplicity, but is in fact a very involved and complex doctrine that a person could spend a lifetime studying and not totally get their arms around it.  He then proceeds to take this doctrine of love as laid out most clearly by the two great commandments of Christ, and apply it to difficult real life issues where the church is arguably deficient.<br />There were many highlights in this book.  Carson's examination of the doctrine of love itself is worth the price of the book.  It was very refreshing to watch an elite Bible scholar meticulously analyze the doctrine of Christian love and showing what it is, and what it isn't.  Carson has long been known for achieving the all too rare balance of taking the whole counsel of Scripture into account, while not stretching Scripture beyond what it says.  So many evangelicals, even evangelical scholars, tend to lose their balance either through practicing Biblical reductionism or Biblical expansionism.  Carson does neither, and the reader therefore gains confidence that this is a scholar who is truly seeking the truth responsibly within the confines of Scripture.  <br />Carson's discussion of racism and church discipline are very good.  But I thought the most provocative section of the book was his discussion on Osama Bin Ladan and the whole area of just war theory and what Christian love looks like in these areas.  Carson raises many good questions in this section that both hardened pacifists and hardened advocates for war will find difficult to deal with.  But I agree with Carson that these questions need to be asked and thoughtfully explored.  Given the current state of international affairs, this section of the book is about as timely and relevant as one could ask for.  Christians in particular should read this very carefully.<br />So in short, this book is thoughtful, practical, insightful, caring, and deeply relevant for our times today.  Given that so much of the modern American church is out of step with what Carson says in regards to Christian love, it's hard for me to recommend any other book written in the past year as highly as I recommend this one.  It is hoped that this book will achieve a wide readership and that both liberal and conservative Christians will pay attention to Carson here.  The church, and therefore the world, will be much better off.	2003-01-29
US	50142550	R1OS8WWNGW9VGC	0891098836	441246982	The Discipline of Grace: God's Role and Our Role in the Pursuit of Holiness	Books	5	108	110	N	N	Biblical, Balanced, Substantive, and Challenging	When it comes to the area of books on Christian living, Jerry Bridges stands out among a very crowded field of authors.  In the last 10 years, there has been an explosion of books on Christian living, with all kinds of authors trying to find a publishing niche - whether it's books that are geared specifically towards women, homeschoolers, men, parents, seniors, new Christians, seasoned Christians, etc.  Thankfully, in the midst of all this we have an author like Bridges, whose 'niche' is writing thorough and challenging books that the entire body of Christ can profit from.  This particular book certainly falls into that category.  <br />The purpose of the book is to attempt to find a Biblical basis for understanding our individual pursuit of holiness.  In particular, the book tries to explore what our role is, versus what God's role is, and then expanding upon not only what we should be doing, but what our approach and attitude should be in order for our efforts to be effective.  This is a difficult area.  As Bridges properly points out, teachings on personal holiness range from a 'God is in control so don't worry about your own conduct' approach to a legalistic rules and regulations approach that on a practical level leaves holiness entirely up to the individual.  Bridges spurns both approaches in favor of a balanced approach that struck me as being very biblically responsible.  That approach being that God is indeed in control and His grace is the ingredient that empowers our efforts to become more holy.  <br />The strength of the book is the last six or so chapters where Bridges puts practical legs upon many of the Biblical concepts discussed in the first half of the book and develops several Biblical disciplines that all Christians should heed in their lives.  Those who read the first part of the book and begin (as I admittedly did) to think that Bridges is soft-peddling sin by so exalting grace need to read through the entire book.  The last several chapters really bring a solid balance to the presentation, and I found these disciplines to be substantive and challenging not only in the disciplines themselves, but also in the perspective we need to have about them as being spiritually worthless without the power of the Holy Spirit and the motive to discipline ourselves out of a love for God.  Particularly insightful was Bridges comment that many folks who practice certain disciplines can get into a legalistic mindset because they don't practice the disciplines out of a love for God, but out of a fear of guilt or out of loving the disciplines themselves but not loving God.  Very good point.<br />I would strongly recommend this book to all Christians at any stage of their Christian walk.  There is some very good meat in here that personally convicted me, and I think many Christians who are trapped either in a legalistic or antinomian mindset will find the Biblical balance set forth by Bridges to be very refreshing.  Those who struggle with understanding their role in holiness will find in this book a God focused perspective that affirms human responsibility in the context of God's sovereignty, and that these truths are complementary in the area of Christian living and pursuing holiness.  A very good book.	2003-01-21
US	50142550	R213JMUTMKJIJI	083081339X	269600369	Evangelism & the Sovereignty of God	Books	5	26	29	N	N	In Many Ways, Quite Helpful	JI Packer has long been a prominent voice in evangelical theology, and many of his writings reflect solid teaching and wisdom.  This book is no exception.  This book makes an attempt to deal with one of the principle objections to Reformed theology particularly, and the sovereignty of God generally - if God is in control of everything and has already determined who will be saved, what purpose does evangelism serve?  This book provides one of the more substantive responses to this objection.<br />Packer makes clear early on that it is impossible to get around two clear Biblical teachings without jettisoning whole sections of the Bible.  Those two clear teachings are that God is absolutely sovereign and fully in control, and that man is responsible for his own actions and will be held accountable for his life.  These two truths, which appear to be in competition with each other, have long proven to be a formidable theological question for theologians of all stripes.  Arminians are often accused of elevating man's responsibility and thus forcing a watered down version of God's sovereignty that appears to be in contradiction with Scripture.  Calvinists are often accused of elevating God's sovereignty to the point where human beings necessarily become little more than puppets, and that this seems to be in conflict with Scripture.  Finding a reconciliation of the two truths that continues to preach the two truths in a way that's faithful to what Scripture actually says is where the rub has been.  In this book, Packer does not offer a detailed compatibilist proposal, but indeed affirms the classic Reformed understanding that God's complete sovereignty is undeniably expressed in Scripture, and that this is a significant issue when it comes to the topic of evangelism.<br />The best section of the book is where Packer discusses the actual practice of evangelism and what it should look like.  I think many readers will gain fresh insights about what evangelism actually is, andthat Scripture is rather clear about what it is.  Readers who are in the missions field or are in a heavily evangelistic role in their church or community will find this section to be very helpful, in addition to laypeople who are likewise called to evangelize the territory that God has given them.<br />Packer concludes by eloquently discussing how evangelism, without the recognition that God is sovereign, is a worthless enterprise that will yield no fruit.  Packer persuasively argues that those who believe that winning converts is based upon their own evangelism techniques or charisma are utterly out of touch with what Scripture clearly says about the human condition in its natural state and its complete unwillingness to grasp or accept the things of God absent a work of God in unregenerate hearts.  And it is here that Packer proposes that the sovereignty of God, contrary to eliminating the need for evangelism, is actually the one sure-footed basis upon which to conduct fruitful evangelism.  Packer repeatedly comments that regardless of one's views on election and predestination, God's sovereignty is not only complementary, but a necessary precondition to the human responsibility to evangelize effectively.  He effectively shows that if we water down or compromise the sovereignty of God, Arminians and Calvinists alike have no Biblical basis to believe that evangelism will be worth anything, and this line of thought is quite helpful for Calvinists attempting to deal with the mainly Arminian objections to the impact the sovereignty of God has on evangelism.  A good book.	2003-01-17
US	50142550	R27XYYH7WWS1CY	0875522130	854815946	Sinners in the Hands of an Angry God: Made Easier to Read	Books	5	94	98	N	N	Contextually Relevant, but also timeless	This particular sermon from Edwards has been trumpeted by some as the greatest sermon given on American soil, while being vehemently attacked by others as puritanical fire and brimstone of a backwards age.  Oddly enough, there are elements of truth in both sentiments, more the former than the latter however.  While unquestionably hitting on many timeless truths that are relevant in any period of time, the genius of the sermon really comes out when one considers the historical context in which the sermon was given.<br />Contrary to many negative reflex and often revisionist reactions we tend to hear today about puritanism and Edwards, Edwards was not a constant fire and brimstone preacher.  The writings of Edwards reveal a man who spoke much more on the grace and mercy of God then of His wrath.  But really, the two go hand in hand.  There's no need for God to be merciful if there's no eternal wrath to fear.  There's no need for God to show grace to human beings if there's nothing bad enough in human beings to warrant divine punishment.  It is impossible to adequately discuss God's mercy and grace without also dwelling very intently on the wretchedness of man and the divine justice that must be exacted if we believe that God is perfectly holy.  This is the context in which this sermon by Edwards was given.  He was invited to preach at a church that was spiritually dead and dominated by a spirit of skepticism and a deeply entrenched disbelief in the need for radical personal conversion.  Such is the attitude that can be found in many churches today.  Yet contrary to what happens each Sunday in these kind of churches all across America, the preacher at this particular church found such comfortable skepticism not to be a virtue of an enlightened congregation, but as a cancer that ensured that many in his church would go unsaved if things didn't change.  Enter Jonathan Edwards, and his sermon to this church on that day changed the people in that church and made a lastingimpact on American Christianity that is felt to this day.<br />The main purpose of the sermon, contextually speaking, was to abruptly dislodge and disrupt the culture of apathetic skepticism that reigned in this church.  Edwards attempted to do this by drawing haunting imagery of God's mercy in all things, ensuring the congregation that the only reason they are even breathing is because of God's grace.  He paints a picture of man dangling over an eternal fire, and stressing that this is where man finds himself right now, and that the only reason he doesn't fall in is because God (and a very angry God at that) has a hold of him and hasn't yet let go.  For Edwards, it was clear that by holding on to sinful and unrepentant man and not allowing him to fall at any moment, God was being infinitely more merciful than we deserve, but that such mercy is not indefinite or inexhaustible, but instead serves either to keep an elect person alive long enough for him to reach a point of faith and repentence, or serves to harden the sinner's heart to the point where eternal damnation is a completely just punishment for having denied and defied the authority of their Maker for so long.<br />Some have commented that this kind of imagery is backwards because Christians shouldn't be in the business of trying to scare people into personal faith.  While such a sentiment sounds good and tends to appeal to our modern sensitivities, such a view is decidedly unfaithful to the entire earthly ministry of Jesus Christ as recorded in the gospels.  Jesus talked about hell and punishment more than anyone else, and certainly far more than Edwards.  If one accepts that Jesus is God and can therefore be considered a pretty reliable authority on the supernatural and the afterlife, then one must conclude that Christ's continual warnings about eternal punishment are authoritative, accurate, and should be heeded with deep seriousness.  I found this sermon by Edwards to be very faithful to the uncomfortable and even scary warnings given by Jesus throughout the four Gospels of the New Testament.  Edwards is not scaring people for the sake of scaring people.  He is doing exactly what Christ did 2,000 years ago - out of a spirit of deep love and concern, he is warning people of the very real and terrifying consequences of deliberately walking away from Jesus Christ.  <br />In the end, the basic question one has to ask when reading either Edwards or Scripture is whether the eternal punishment described by both is truthful or not.  If it is, then how can it possibly be an act of love not to tell people about it?  Better to offend with the truth and call people to faith in the one true God and personal repentance than try to make people feel comfortable believing a lie and not seeing a need for people to change anything about their beliefs, wrong and negatively consequential though they may be.  If someone believes that eternal punishment is false, then that person has bigger fish to fry then Edwards, they must also patently reject the sayings of Jesus and adopt completely by blind faith a different view of the afterlife.  Many have taken this latter road, just as Christ predicted would happen.  But truth does not depend on whether our ears are sufficiently tickled.  Those who sincerely want to know the truth will give Edwards a fair hearing here and put his views to the test.	2003-01-09
US	50142550	R7IOYJ97WJTHE	080281607X	968691251	Lectures on Calvinism	Books	5	55	57	N	N	Good Worldview Reading	I think it's probably unlikely that anyone will read these lectures by Kuyper and agree word for word with absolutely everything that's in here.  There are enough distinctives in Kuyper's thought that make his views somewhat particular, as are the views of everyone.  But there is no question that one can surmise from reading this book that Kuyper, philosophically speaking, was a man ahead of his time.<br />The basic point of this book is to present a Calvinistic worldview that penetrates and transforms all aspects of society - politics, science, the arts, religion, etc.  In many ways, such an attempt was, and is, revolutionary by Christian standards.  Surprisingly few Christians, either today or in Kuyper's day 100 years ago, think christianly about things beyond the pale of pure religion or spirituality.  Many Christians who are indeed quite Christian in regards to religious beliefs and even personal holiness do not take Christianity beyond these areas into the world and in the world's legitimate disciplines like politics or science.  There are several reasons that are regularly given for this, but clearly the most pervasive is that many Christians haven't thought about such things and have unnecessarily limited their ability to transform the world.  This attitude is decidedly unacceptable to Kuyper, and this comes through loud and clear in this book.<br />Not only was Kuyper ahead of his time in suggesting a full orbed Christian worldview in place of a compartmentalized Christianity, but he was also prophetic in laying down a solid framework for comparative religious and worldview studies.  Those who struggle with answering assertions which suggest that all religions and worldviews are more or less the same should read Kuyper here.  Kuyper is very good in contrasting worldviews, showing them to be incompatible with each other, and forcefully arguing for that worldviews can and should be differentiated from each other on the basis of truth versus error.  In particular, Kuyper plunges head first into the modernist craze of his time and calling for a full orbed Christian rebuttal to modernism that can only be achieved by developing a full-orbed Christian worldview that can compete with modernistic tendencies in science, politics, etc.<br />Not every Christian will agree with Kuyper's views, and not even all self-described Calvinists will either.  Calvinism is not monolithic on many of these questions, though Kuyper's views are indeed compelling and often persuasive.  I think the biggest compliment this book can be given is that it should raise the consciousness of the Christian reader to think outside his own backyard and yearn to develop his faith into a comprehensive life system which is applicable to any circumstance and any discipline or field of study.  Kuyper wanted Christians to expand their horizons and expand their influence by outthinking and outworking their worldview opponents, and this is a message that is every bit as critical for Christians to hear today as it was when these lectures were given 100 years ago.	2003-01-07
US	50142550	R2GNC1WNZX8LG	0877845689	614879194	Unmasking the New Age	Books	5	39	50	N	N	5 Stars, with a caveat	I had the pleasure of meeting Dr Groothuis on a fairly recent seminary visit and had the privilege of talking with him in his office for nearly an hour about things philosophical.  Contrary to what a previous reviewer intimates regarding this particular book, Groothuis is one of the elite Christian scholars in regards to worldview issues, and his treatment of the New Age in this book, while somewhat dated, is outstanding.  It engages in a respectful and sober discussion about the influence of the New Age upon our culture, and even within the church.  As such, it is likely to make some Christian readers unhappy since it will likely challenge such readers who might be engaging in certain New Age practices to rethink such participation in light of the potent spiritual consequences.<br />This book attempts to describe New Age influence in public schools, and in the fields of medicine, science, politics, and American spirituality generally.  I especially appreciated Groothuis's emphasis early on that he does not subscribe to a 'New Age conspiracy' which lends solid credibility to his approach.  After reading the book, one might come away thinking that indeed such a conspiracy exists, but this is not the conclusion that Groothuis himself appears to subscribe to.<br />Groothuis's treatment of how the New Age is impacting the fields of science and politics were especially insightful.  He properly points out in the field of science that while New Age influences have actually corrected a number of erroneous presuppositions held sacred by many secular humanists and naturalists, this does not compensate for the New Age's abandonment of truth and the resulting chaos it brings to any field of study if consistently followed.  Further, Groothuis brilliantly exposes how New Age influences have penetrated the American federal government, with taxpayer money being spent promoting decidedly New Age beliefs and practices.  One wonders (though I confess it's no mystery to me) why the more militant church-state separatists haven't been up in arms about such a mixture of taxpayer money and religion, but that's a whole other topic.  This sticks out like a sore thumb even more in light of the caveat I discuss below.<br />Groothuis's treatment of the New Age's contribution to American spirituality (along with its influence in medicine) are likely to be the sections that laypeople might most object to.  In these two sections, Groothuis properly goes into some detail in showing how New Age medicinal/spiritual practices are not innocuous or devoid of any spiritual meaning, but in fact promote a spiritual worldview that cannot be harmonized with orthodox Christianity without severely compromising it.  A number of these practices are things that all kinds of Christians from the lukewarm to the devout are engaging in today either because they don't know any better, or even worse, because they are not discerning enough to see how these New Age practices are built upon and promote a philosophy that directly contradicts the message of the Bible.  Because such practices like yoga, TM, acupuncture, homeopathy, and others have become mainstream even within the church, I strongly recommend this book as an effective countermeasure against the wholesale adoption of these practices by the body of Christ without any discernment.<br />The one caveat I have about the book is its age.  This book was written in the late '80s/1990, and as such, it is somewhat dated.  Because the 'New Age' is a movement that makes it up as it goes along and is a rather fluid movement, readers looking for a current Christian critique of this movement might be a bit disappointed in this effort, although I think much of the material is still current.  The date of this book is noteworthy because when Groothuis talks about the marriage of the New Age and the Department of Defense, as one example, this is what was happening 15 years ago, not yesterday.  What is happening today is quite probably even more pervasive influence of the New Age with more taxpayer money being spent on New Age seminars, medicinal experiments, etc.  For the Christian who has grown weary of the recent perversion of the church-state doctrine that has tried to put Christianity in an ever smaller and quieter box, this data from Groothuis makes it crystal clear the new standard of church-state separation is not being consistently followed, and that it certainly seems like we are living in an age of different rules for different faiths.  Such a conclusion is formidable ammunition for the Christian seeking to expose the hypocrisy, uneven handedness, and rank bias of those who claim to cherish neutrality on this issue.  As a result, I heartily recommend this book for a variety of reasons.	2002-12-27
US	50142550	R1YA2AD9UTW2XD	0664222730	286857080	A Simple Way to Pray	Books	5	47	47	N	N	A Classic Protestant Devotional	This is a very small book containing Martin Luther's response to his barber's questions about prayer.  This is a book that can be read within the confines of an hour, but reveals both thoughts and techniques about prayer that the serious minded Christian will want to take with them and apply for a lifetime.<br />When it comes to the subject of prayer, there is no shortage of books and other materials that are available for Christians to peruse.  But this little book by Luther is quite substantive not only in its approach to prayer, but also in its attitude of total reverence.  In many ways, the book is a recital of a number of Luther's actual prayers and this provides an extremely insightful look not only into the prayer life of Martin Luther but also about the scope of prayer that Luther adopted.  I suspect many modern readers will be extremely impressed and even marvel at the depths to which Luther made prayer the centerpiece of his Christian walk, and how such devotion to prayer seems so beyond what many of us contemporary Christians tend to practice in our quiet time with God.<br />There are two main strengths in this book that can transform a person's prayer life.  First are the words of Luther himself in his prayers.  The reader gets the sense of Luther's crystal clear understanding of the eternal immensity of the power of God and the utter helplessness of man absent God.  Gaining a proper perspective in prayer means understanding who it is we are praying to, and understanding why we pray.  I happen to think that a widespread return to Luther's perspective in these areas would revolutionize the universal Church through much more effective prayer that comes with having a Biblical understanding of the sovereignty of God and why we need Him.<br />Second, Luther's technique toward prayer in this book is hugely important.  In particular, his fourfold partition in prayer of instruction, thanksgiving, confession/repentance, and request after meditating on a Scripturepassage is outstanding.  Luther properly puts the emphasis on Bible reading as a key way to ready the heart for sincere and meaningful prayer.  Further, he stresses the need for the Christian to follow the guidings of the Holy Spirit in prayer so as to have a dynamic and heart-filled prayer life rather than a prayer life of mind numbing ritualism or legalism.<br />In summary, this is great instruction from a giant of the Christian faith that we as Christians should strongly consider in our attitudes towards prayer.	2002-12-15
US	50142550	R2FU0NZOX17H27	0801069890	970137180	The Attributes of God	Books	5	112	112	N	N	Very Good Introductory Treatment	During the first part of the 20th century, Arthur Pink put pen to paper and produced a number of outstanding books that continue to be held in high esteem among many.  Pink is famous for 3 main things.  First, he held to a very high Calvinist theology.  Second, because of the first, he held some highly controversial positions that many Arminians find repugnant.  Third, Pink's ability to soak and bathe his views in Scripture are quite extraordinary.  It is not at all uncommon to read entire chapters of Pink and encountering a Scripture verse in every other sentence.  Such is the case with this particular book.<br />This book is very short, less than 100 pages.  As a result, those looking for a more exhaustive treatment of this topic a la Charnock (whom Pink eloquently quotes a number of times in this book) or the more recent work by Feinberg might be disappointed.  However, I'm giving the book 5 stars because even though one could write for a lifetime about the attributes of God and not cover the topic completely, Pink's short work is nonetheless very meaty and is a solid contribution that a number of more recent authors have rightly drawn from in their works.<br />As is the usual Pink style, he is unapologetic throughout this book in elevating God's ways far above the ways of man, as he believes Scripture does.  He is unapologetic about lamenting the wickedness of man generally, and in many cases, directing his most impassioned criticism towards the modern Church for what he sees as the church's coddling of sin, demotion of God to a pleasant afterthought of the human construct, and failing to preach on the unpopular attributes of God such as His wrath.  This is not a book aimed at those who want to hear unthreatening and soft peddling thoughts in an effort to feel better about themselves.  On the contrary, this is a book that sternly asks Christians to set themselves aside for a minute and examine God for who He is instead of making Him out to be an elevated form of what we see in the mirror.  Pink was frighteningly accurate about the mentality of so many Christians who claim to love and understand God while recasting Him in their own image.  Scripture plainly teaches otherwise, and Pink's treatment is solid in this area.<br />Pink's chapter on the patience of God is very good, and His treatment of the immutability of God is outstanding for those who are grappling with the contemporary open theism controversy.  Pink wrote before this controversy got legs, but this book along with some others he wrote are quite devastating to the open theist on the questions of foreknowledge, immutability, and sovereignty.<br />So this book, while not a massive treatise, is nonetheless a Scripture packed analysis that crams a lot of meat into a small book.  Excellent for beginners who want to get exposed to these issues without reading a big hardback treatment, and excellent also for more seasoned theologians since Pink has truly emerged over the years as being one of the finest and most impassioned apologists for Calvinism and a high treatment of God in the last 100 years.what we see in the mirror.  Pink was frighteningly accurate about the mentality of so many Christians who claim to love and understand God while recasting Him in their own image.  Scripture plainly teaches otherwise, and Pink's treatment is solid in this area.<br />Pink's chapter on the patience of God is very good, and His treatment of the immutability of God is outstanding for those who are grappling with the contemporary open theism controversy.  Pink wrote before this controversy got legs, but this book along with some others he wrote are quite devastating to the open theist on the questions of foreknowledge, immutability, and sovereignty.<br />So this book, while not a massive treatise, is nonetheless a Scripture packed analysis that crams a lot of meat into a small book.  Excellent for beginners who want to get exposed to these issues without reading a big hardback treatment, and excellent also for more seasoned theologians since Pink has truly emerged over the years as being one of the finest and most impassioned apologists for Calvinism and a high treatment of God in the last 100 years.	2002-12-13
US	50142550	R2MB8499R975FR	1579108911	453218495	The Origin of Paul's Religion:	Books	5	51	54	N	N	Among the Best Books I've Read	This book represents an exhaustive and outstanding treatise in Pauline studies by J. Gresham Machen. Even after the better part of a century after these lectures were given, the book represents a monumental feat and is still one of the best studies of Paul in print.<br />Machen's lectures that are presented in this book were given at a time when Biblical criticism that rejected supernaturalism, Bible inspiration, and Biblical historicity was in full blossom. Many competing schemes had been developed to naturalize the musings of the Apostle Paul and to separate the Pauline epistles in every possible way from the alleged 'historical Jesus' of the naturalistic scholarship fad that prevailed in Biblical criticism at that time. This book represents a comprehensive rebuttal to many of these theories. Machen's critiques are complete; and they are devastating. By so thoroughly destroying the naturalistic theories that were forced onto Christianity in an effort to discredit it, Machen not only discredits these theories, he strongly affirms the orthodox tenets of the historic Christian faith in a very scholarly manner.<br />Machen, with relentless logic, systematically tackles several main thrusts of criticism and finds each of them wanting to the extreme. In the process, Machen discredits efforts to separate the religion of Paul from the religion of Peter, and thereby discrediting the view that the Christianity of Jerusalem and the Christianity of the dispersion were somehow different. This section was simply masterful, in my opinion. Machen then discredits theories that tried to contrast Paul and Jesus. These theories suggested that the Jesus of Paulinism was different than the real Jesus of Palestine. Again, Machen is relentless in discrediting this argument. Machen moves on to perhaps his best section, which is discussing the alleged pagan influences and/or origins of Paul's thought. Two complete chapters, and a portion of a third, are devoted to tackling this subject. Inthe process, the theories of Bousset, Bruckner, Reitzenstein and others are demonstrated to be an embarassment.  Machen's treatment of the pagan influence issue here was probably the most resounding rebuke written until Nash's 'Gospel and the Greeks' was written in the late '80s.  At a number of points, Nash draws significantly from Machen here, and put together, the two works represent a devastating case against pagan influences upon early Christianity.<br />Throughout this book, I was simply amazed at how thorough Machen was in considering so many objections and nuances that impact on the central question of the origin of Paulinism. I was also amazed that even though these lectures were given so long ago, they are extraordinarily relevant today. Yesterday's Boussets, Bruckners, and Reitzensteins are today's Crossans, Funks, and Borgs. The arguments are strikingly similar, and fueled by similar motivations - ie: to find a way to desupernaturalize Jesus Christ, the words of the Bible, and the Christian experience. This book by Machen, therefore, is truly timeless because it thoroughly discredited such arguments when they were in fashion 100 years ago, and can likewise be used by believers today to discredit the Jesus Seminar and other like minded contemporary 'scholars'.<br />This is not a book that the reader will be able to rush through. I found each chapter so engaging and so deep in its analysis that I needed to stop after each chapter because Machen had given my brain a serious workout. This is Reformed scholarship at its finest. Machen brilliantly shows that in an effort to 'demythologize' the Bible, naturalistic scholars are engaging in a great deal of myth-building themselves. The orthodox Christianity of the Apostle Paul is demonstrated to be in comprehensive harmony with the other apostles, the Old Testament writings, and the sayings of Christ Himself. An outstanding example of solid scholarship!	2002-11-29
US	50142550	R17IN7PPMI55QF	080105849X	58084304	Faith Alone: The Evangelical Doctrine of Justification	Books	4	35	38	N	N	In many ways very strong, in some ways weak	RC Sproul's effort here is a solid contribution to the ongoing debate over justification.  It's not perfect, as I'll discuss below, but the strengths of the book are sufficient enough to warrant serious consideration.<br />Sproul wrote this book in 1995 in large measure as a response to a specific event that occurred in 1994 - the publicizing of the ECT document.  Sproul writes with great concern that this ecumenical document signed by a number of prominent evangelicals and Roman Catholics inappropriately dodges the central point of disagreement between the two camps (justification).  I think Sproul is absolutely right in expressing this concern and believing that the document's effort to minimize and even not acknowledge such a fundamental disagreement is deceptive because the document ends up claiming a level of unity that does not exist.  While some have criticized the book for dwelling too much on the ECT document, I thought Sproul's treatment was quite appropriate and necessary.  It once again moves to central stage the issue of justification by faith, and what evangelicals and Roman Catholics believe about the doctrine and why it's important.<br />Sproul's brief summary of the history of justification in the church is very educational for the beginner.  I also felt that Sproul nuanced the discussion very well by showing how important this issue was to Luther, Calvin, and the other reformers.  By doing this, Sproul draws a clear distinction between the weight the original reformers gave to this issue versus the modern day tendency to downplay its importance within evangelicalism (and Roman Catholicism) in order to achieve a superficial unity.  It is very insightful to see very clearly that the issue itself hasn't changed, the disagreements which led to the reformation haven't been resolved.  All that's changed is the church's unwillingness to thoughtfully engage in the debate because many Christians believe that in the whole scheme of things, the doctrine of justification is no longer an issue worth debating and simply isn't a big priority anymore.  I thought Sproul handled this attitudinal change well and effectively demonstrated that the doctrine of justification is not merely a dusty theological issue of no current importance, but remains a central part of the gospel that we dare not water down.<br />Sproul also does a good job here of contrasting the imputation of righteousness that undergirds the Reformed view, versus the infusion view that undergirds Roman Catholicism.  I think a reader who is willing to seriously interact with this issue will get a great deal out of Sproul's discussion here and will see very clearly that Rome's view has been and continues to be antithetical in many ways to the Protestant view of justification.<br />The biggest negative of this book is the lack of Scriptural exegesis.  I found this book to be an examination of justification not from a Biblical perspective, but from a church history and denominational perspective.  This book is about what Reformed Protestants and Rome think about justification.  It is not really a book that attempts to ground either side's views in the Bible.  This is a disappointment.  Sproul goes to great lengths in arguing that justification by faith alone is at the heart of the gospel message every bit as much as the deity of Christ is at the heart of the gospel message.  Yet it was surprising to me that having argued for the centrality of justification to the gospel, Sproul doesn't spend much time actually interacting with the text of the gospel to solidify his point.  Sproul unnecessarily leaves open the possibility that the reader may walk away from his book believing that the importance of justification is a matter of man's opinion rather than Scriptural reality.  <br />So overall, this is a solid book that effectively contrasts the Protestant and Roman Catholic views on justification and why these views are important and should be central in any meaningful dialogue between Protestants and Roman Catholics (which the ECT did not do).  But the lack of Scriptural grounding is a weakness that unnecessarily limits the scope of this book to human opinions, creeds, bulls, and councils - none of which are inerrant.  The importance of the doctrine of justification should have first been established in the pages of inerrant Scripture, and it is here that Sproul's work comes up short.	2002-11-17
US	50142550	R3PCQZXZJ2JHRC	0060653019	759467388	Miracles	Books	5	232	235	N	N	Really 4.5 stars	This book by CS Lewis was probably his most philosophical work.  As such, it is not a light read at all and would probably prove difficult for beginners who have not been exposed to heavily philosophical material.  But for those who want a highly intellectual philosophical discussion of the possibility of miracles, this book is certainly worthy of one's attention.<br />There are a number of strengths to this book which continue to make the book solidly relevant better than forty years after the revised edition came out.  Lewis cuts to the heart of the matter very quickly in asserting that rejection of miracles apriori is a common attitude that at its core, is anti-intellectual.  Attempts to base rejection of miracles on probabilities, as Hume tried to do, are philosophically untenable and require a betrayal of basic realities that are universally accepted.<br />Lewis then systematically dismantles the worldview that tends to most cradle apriori miracle rejection, naturalism.  He compellingly shows that naturalism is a worldview that cannot stand up to philosophical scrutiny.  Key to Lewis's presentation is his argument that naturalism can be demonstrated to be false in its complete rejection of supernaturalism merely by the reality of reason.  Logic and reason of the mind, by themselves, are supernatural acts that cannot be explained or accounted for in nature, as naturalism demands.  Supernaturalism, according to Lewis is not only possible, but pervasive since the act of logical thinking itself is supernatural in origin.<br />Lewis then eloquently argues that the relationship between nature and the supernatural are not hostile, but complementary.  In Lewis's view, nature is quite pliable to accommodate and assimilate supernatural acts in ways that do not bring the kind of chaos and randomness that many naturalists believe to be reprehensible relative to the 'invasion' of nature by alleged supernatural acts.  Lewis persuasively demonstrates that this concern is bogus.  <br />Once the reality, possibility, and plausibility of miracles has been established philosophically, Lewis moves to classifying the Biblical miracles as either old creation or new creation miracles.  Here, readers might be a bit disappointed by the presentation.  Those looking for an evidential defense of miracles in general or any specific miracle in particular will not find it here.  This is a philosophical presentation that is chiefly concerned with whether miracles are possible and/or probable.  It is not an evidential defense of the possibility of any specific miracle.  Lewis's central point is that human beings are disinclined towards believing in the inherent possibility of miracles for reasons that are not intellectually honest and calls for a fresh reappraisal of the possibility of miracles with a fresh attitude of open mindedness and a sincere commitment to soberly seek the truth absent bias.  On this point, he does very well.<br />I noted that I thought the book deserved 4.5 stars rather than a full blown 5 stars.  There are two main reasons why this is.  First, his discussion of the Incarnation, while fascinating, was mostly off topic.  The focus of Lewis's discussion was not on the miraculous nature of the Incarnation, but on its meaning to the believer and its relationship to nature.  The discussion is good, but in a book on miracles, I found it to be misplaced.  Second, and perhaps more crucial, is that Lewis succumbs to the very ad hoc skepticism that he argues so passionately against.  Without elaboration, Lewis introduces the idea of 'Hebrew mythology' as being behind at least some of the miracles described in the Old Testament (Jonah and the whale being one).  Why Lewis believes that some Biblical miracles are genuine while others are mythological is something he doesn't discuss.  But the reader gets the sense that by taking this position, Lewis is caving in to the very kind of apriori rejection he repeatedly and rightly condemns throughoutthe book.  Lewis's central argument is therefore undermined by his own unwarranted and unexplained backtracking from his own position.<br />But because this slip of reason is confined to only one or two paragraphs of the book, it is a weakness that while noteworthy and unfortunate, is not fatal to his argument.  One who remains skeptical about the viability of miracles should consider that Lewis revised this book back in 1960 (in response to the arguments of Anscombe) and to date, there has been no compelling rebuttal to its tenets.  Attempts to erect a solid rebuttal have been presented and then systematically refuted as erroneous and mostly illogical.  As a result, this book has stood the test of time and remains a compelling argument that should provide great comfort and assurance to those who believe the Biblical miracles on faith, but wonder whether this belief can also be grounded in reason and philosophical argument.  It can, and we should expect nothing less from the Creator who not only created nature and supernaturally intervenes in nature, but who also created perfect logic and reason.	2002-11-17
US	50142550	R1CME8DPL8DGF7	1879737434	350819627	The Potter's Freedom: A Defense of the Reformation and the Rebuttal of Norman Geisler's Chosen But Free	Books	4	12	19	N	N	Mostly Persuasive Rebuttal to Geisler	James White, in comparison to his contemporaries, is a young and impassioned apologist for the Christian faith generally, and Reformed theology specifically.  He is one of the premier debaters in the country, having successfully dismantled opponents representing a wide assortment of worldviews - Roman Catholicism, Mormonism, King James Onlyism, atheism, naturalism, Arminianism, etc.  As a result, he has been denigrated and personally attacked by prominent folks from each of these camps.  Love him or hate him, White has put himself out there and has not been bashful about engaging viewpoints that differ from his, and often doing so successfully.<br />This particular effort by White, while not the best book I've read from him, is still essential reading, in my view.  Here, White attempts a rather lengthy rebuttal to Geisler's 'Chosen But Free' book that has been widely popular and has gained a wide readership.  In typical White style, he is quite exacting about developing a systematic response to CBF that attempts a thorough and faithful response.  <br />Having read both books, I felt that White's book has a number of strengths to it that are lacking in Geisler's book.  First, and most obvious, is that White's book is exegetically driven and is much more devoted to the art and science and biblical interpretation.  I felt that while Geisler came off as rather amateurish in his level of Scriptural examination, White properly digs deeply to honor the words with Scripture with an in depth study.  This makes White's case far more persuasive than Geisler, if one is committed to Scripture more than human opinion or sensitivities.<br />Second, White, unlike Geisler, seems to have a much better grasp not only of theological terminology, but also of what he believes.  While Geisler attempted to describe his 4 point Arminianism as moderate Calvinism, it became plain to both Calvinist and Arminian readers that Geisler's book was an apology for mainstream Arminianism.  This raisedlegitimate questions not only about Geisler's grasp of theological terminology, but also of whether Geisler has truly thought out his theological position and whether he knows for sure what it is he is advocating.  I found Geisler's terminology hiccups to be the equivalent of someone calling a cat a dog - it raises serious questions not only of our grasp of terms, but also of what we really know.  This is not an issue with White.  White knows where he is coming from, has a good grasp of the theological terms that describe his views, and he utilizes this terminology correctly and clearly.  This also goes a long way towards making White's case more persuasive than Geisler.<br />Lastly, White's presentation is more full-orbed than Geisler, although as I will mention below, it is not as complete as it could have been.  Geisler's focus was very narrow, and this was a problem with his book since while his focus was narrow, he was forced to draw upon a much wider range of issues in order to make his case.  This left issue after issue either unexplored or only explored on a cursory level, which is a problem.  White is much better in giving due treatment to the various issues that impact on the discussion.<br />In the end, I gave the book 4 stars for 2 main reasons, one pretty minor and one somewhat more significant.  The minor point is that White's writing style here could have stood for improvement.  Far too often, White resorts to unnecessary colorful language to try and make his points, rather than soberly letting his points speak for themselves.  Whenever I see this in a book, my reflex reaction is that the author is trying to hide behind expressive language and is using expressive language as a substitute for effective argumentation in the hopes that the reader won't notice that there's not much intelligent argumentation supporting the flavorful language.  To be clear, I am not suggesting that White didn't back up his points with solid argumentation, he did.  But that's the point.  He didn't need to season his points with colorful language.<br />The more serious point is that White, while effectively dealing with much of CBF, did not elaborate very much on the Reformed concept of 'free will'.  Since the preservation of our so-called free will is central to Geisler's premise, White's book could have been better had a more systematic treatment of free will been undertaken here.  White regularly interacts on the fringes of this issue, but I didn't personally think he addressed it head-on.  As a result, a reader who is not theologically oriented might well walk away from White's book wondering what exactly is the alternative to Geisler's view on free will.  White's book could have stood for a concluding (or an introductory) chapter on the Reformed view of human choice and responsibility as a way to bring the book together to answer core issue that is being debated.<br />So this is not a perfect book.  But after reading both books in question, there is little doubt that White did a much better job throughout in grounding his theology to Scripture and systematizing his theology so as to be internally consistent.  It will be very interesting to see the results of the systematic theology that Geisler is currently undertaking (first book of four is already in print) in light of the failure of CBF.  Will we see a systematic treatment of the free will controversy that attempts to seriously interact with Scripture?  It is hoped that through this publishing battle with White, Geisler will have learned a few things from White about Biblical interpretation and worldview consistency.	2002-11-11
US	50142550	RU6FDTNQFWPXP	0310212715	730024576	Five Views on Law and Gospel	Books	4	35	39	N	N	Helpful	While this collaborative counterpoint effort has a number of negative aspects to it, I still found this book to be very helpful in assessing the relationship between the OT Mosaic law and the NT Gospel message.<br />First, the positives.  Five contributors are asked to provide their views on this question.  Of the 5, I found Kaiser to be the most persuasive, followed by Bahnsen and then Moo.  All of the contributors do a good job of sufficiently nuancing the issue to reveal the many points upon which scholars depart from each other.  I felt that each scholar made a solid attempt to deal with the whole counsel of Scripture as it relates to this question, which is a definite plus since this is not a given.  Given this, the reader might well conclude that each view presented has strengths and weaknesses in light of Scripture.<br />I felt that Kaiser's main essay was the most persuasive, as well as his rebuttals to the other essays.  I thought that Bahnsen, while regretably employing a rather harsh tone here that pervades many of his writings, was nonetheless accurate in many of his critiques of the other views.  I also felt that Bahnsen did a very good job of arguing for a theonomic position that is widely rejected because of the discomfort such a position tends to create on our modern sensitivities.  But in many ways, Bahnsen made a good case for this view.  Both Kaiser and Bahnsen argued in favor of continuity between law and gospel and applicability of portions of the law on the believer today, although they disagreed with each other mainly over how much of the law is applicable today.  Moo offered the antithetical approach, and while I don't agree with him, I thought his essay was well done, although not without its problems.  Strickland offered the dispensational view, which I found unpersuasive and mostly incoherent.  VanGemeren offered a continuity proposal that was not well written, nor were his critiques of the other views persuasive.  In my view, his effortshere were the weakest of the five scholars.<br />There are a number of negatives that need to be pointed out.  First, the book often gets very technical, and while this will be profitable for a more advanced reader familiar with theological terms, the beginner may have some trouble with this because many non-common theological words which are heavily used throughout each essay go undefined.  Second, the diversity of views is overstated here.  Ostensibly, this book is supposed to present five different views on this question.  But really, VanGemeren, Bahnsen, and Kaiser are very close to each other in arguing the continuity position and disagreeing only in the details, while Strickland and Moo are very close to each other in arguing for discontinuity.  So the diversity in approaches is not as diverse as it might seem on the surface.  Lastly, there were a number of typos, particularly in Moo's essay, that should have been caught in the editing process.  This negative is quite minor though.<br />Overall, this book is a helpful addition to the recent explosion of works that have been produced on the law and its relationship to the believer today.  This book is rather lengthy (better than 400 pages), but there is a sufficient amount of meat here for the reader to chew on as a springboard for further study.	2002-11-01
US	50142550	R1JMJ1G2D0AGV0	0842339655	156621327	The Holiness of God	Books	4	74	86	N	N	Very Good, Not Quite a Classic	Many have commented that this book by RC Sproul represents the pinnacle work of Sproul's illustrious publishing career.  Some have heralded this book as being a contemporary classic.  I must respectfully dissent from both views.  While I certainly hold Sproul in high regard and consider this particular book to be very good, it could have been a little better.<br />It is important to emphasize that this book has many more strengths than weaknesses.  Sproul's discourse on the immensity, from a finite perspective, of contemplating the holiness and 'otherness' of God is outstanding and should be required reading in churches all over America.  American evangelicalism has gotten increasingly soft in the opinion of many (me included), with great emphasis being paid to human abilities and worshipping a God of love that is devoid of justice.  Sproul squarely and correctly provides much needed balance in this book on these questions.  God is sovereign, He is infinite, He is eternal, and He is holy - we are none of these things.  It would serve the body of Christ well to sincerely take some time to contemplate these things so that the American church can hopefully return to a very clear theology about who God is, who we are, and who needs who in this scenario.<br />Sproul's analysis of the trials and tribulations of Martin Luther is also outstanding.  It's amazing to me that many everyday Protestants know almost nothing about the most prominent figure of the Reformation, what he believed, what he espoused, and what his theological and personal struggles were.  Luther is not God, but He 'wrestled' with God in many ways over the deepest questions of life.  Woe to the American church that we don't have many more people willing and wanting to be like Luther in this respect - choosing instead a surface level faith that is blissfully indifferent to the gravity of these issues.  I thought Sproul did a wonderful job in contrasting Luther's insatiable hunger for better knowing the things of God with the current yawning condition of the modern church.<br />Sproul also provides good material on God's justice, His wrath, and how such things cannot be divorced from His love and mercy.  His treatment of the interesting similarities of God's dealings with Jacob, Moses, Job, and Paul is very insightful.<br />Despite these many strengths, I am compelled to give the book 4 stars for two main reasons.  First, Sproul's chapter on the 'difficult' passages of the Old Testament struck me as a bit inadequate.  More verses could have been analyzed, and the analysis itself could have been significantly more exhaustive.  Sproul is correct that the difficult commandments of God in the Old Testament represent a formidable stumbling block for many.  But I didn't think that Sproul's analysis did much to address them.  Secondly, I felt that Sproul took way too much liberty in his interpretations of Biblical texts and events.  Some no doubt disagree, but I don't think it's a good interpretational technique to take a passage of Scripture and recast it in different language in our efforts to prove a point.  This type of practice really lends itself to strawman arguments and fundamental misinterpretation.  Sproul did this throughout the book, and I often found myself asking, &quot;How does he know the inner thoughts of the writers, or the unwritten aspects of the event in question, etc&quot;.  I have always thought that it is much better to interpret Scripture in light of what Scripture says, rather than relying on our own ability to theorize about what Scripture does not say and then using those theories to advance some point.  Going beyond what Scripture says is every bit as dangerous as ignoring what Scripture does say.  Does Sproul do this here?  Maybe, maybe not.  The point is that he leaves himself open to this charge when he didn't have to.<br />Overall, I would certainly recommend the book due to its many strengths.  But readers should be careful to test Sproul's slangish translations of Scripture and event theorization in light of the Word of God, because this is a real disappointment of the book.  Slangish translations of Scripture are common among those theologians who don't hold to the plenary (word for word) inspiration and inerrancy of Scripture and instead hold to an inspiration of concepts and big ideas.  This view gives them wiggle room to play around with the actual words of Scripture.  I would argue that a theologian who holds to plenary level inspiration should not be taking liberty with the text the way that Sproul does here.  As a result, his translations should be meticulously scrutinized by the reader for faithfulness to the text.  A very good book, but not perfect.	2002-10-29
US	50142550	R44KJC9VLQ17M	0310286700	14879080	Systematic Theology: An Introduction to Biblical Doctrine	Books	5	192	205	N	N	In many ways, this is an excellent work	I have given this work by Wayne Grudem 5 stars not because I agree word for word with everything he espouses here, because I don't.  I am of the view that theology, as a discipline, is like any other discipline in being a human endeavor, and therefore, is fallible.  When reviewing works of theology, I believe in being careful about not expecting any theological work to approach a level of infallibility that only Scripture can ever attain.  But in reading and reviewing theological material, I do expect the author to put forth an intelligent, logical, rational, persuasive BIBLICAL presentation that hangs together internally as well as biblically.  So despite my reservations and disagreements with some of what Grudem puts forth here, I think it deserves 5 stars because in my view, this work gets the job done.<br />There are a number of clear strengths to this book.  First, this book is by far the most accessible systematic treatment of theology I've ever read.  If there is any systematic theology book that theology novices could really sink their teeth into, this is it.  This book, while effectively dealing with the many difficult theological issues that need to be dealt with in any adequate systematic theology, avoids drowning these difficult issues in difficult terminology that too many systematic theologies wrongly assume are common terms that non-theology focused Christians understand and don't need defining.  This is what makes so many systematic theologies inaccessible to most Christians.  While it's true that this represents a sad commentary on the relevance of theological fundamentals and ideas in the minds of too many Christians, I felt that this book by Grudem is a great place to begin reeducating everyday Christians to think theologically and to be able to grasp the material without being intimidated.  This is an enormous strength of this book.<br />Second, I find myself agreeing with many of the endorsements of this book from a diverse variety of theological perspectives in saying that this book is respectful of varying theological traditions and is clearly written in a spirit of Christian love.  Grudem is mostly reformed in his theology and clearly articulates a reformed theology here.  But he does so without being disrespectful to alternate viewpoints.  In addition, his bibliography at the end of each chapter and at the end of the book is extremely thorough in giving readers a long list of resources from a variety of theological traditions.<br />Third, I felt that Grudem's book was fairly thorough in dealing with the many areas of systematic theology.  I felt that his section on ecclesiology was especially good, while also clearly articulating persuasive positions on election, reprobation, grace, and providence.<br />Having said all this, I do believe that Grudem's book reflects a disproportionate emphasis on charismatic gifts that was both unpersuasive and overdone.  Grudem clearly makes an investment in this book to advancing charismatic operativeness.  In fact, it seemed to me that Grudem devoted more time to this particular issue than on many of the fundamental doctrines of God and salvation.  Given that the operativeness vs cessationist debate is (or at least should be) a secondary issue, I did think it was inappropriate for Grudem to treat this issue as if it was a primary article of faith, which is unfortunately a common attitude that has encompassed the charismatic gift issue in elements of both sides of the debate.<br />In the end, while I was close to giving the book 4 stars because of the sometimes missplaced emphasis outlined above, I felt that this book was simply too good in too many other areas to demote the review I'm giving it.  I wholeheartedly agree with Grudem's introduction where he desires Christians to think theologically because theology is not a dry, academic exercise, but a vibrant expression of God's faithfulness that can dramatically transform our faith when undertaken in obedience to God.  Since I think this book has reintroduced the wonder and amazement of theology to so many Christians who had previously adopted a 'see no evil, hear no evil' attitude towards theology which I think is a terribly half baked approach to the Christian life, I believe that Grudem has done the body of Christ an enormous service which will hopefully result in greater interest and passion in contemplating the great things of God as a joyful endeavor of the mind..  Since I think this book has reintroduced the wonder and amazement of theology to so many Christians who had previously adopted a 'see no evil, hear no evil' attitude towards theology which I think is a terribly half baked approach to the Christian life, I believe that Grudem has done the body of Christ an enormous service which will hopefully result in greater interest and passion in contemplating the great things of God as a joyful endeavor of the mind.	2002-10-22
US	50142550	R35D65UM0K9V20	0801025567	233970163	How Long, O Lord?: Reflections on Suffering and Evil	Books	5	72	74	N	N	Outstanding for what it attempts to do	D.A. Carson is one of the more respected theologians of our day.  He is one of the few evangelical scholars who has written extensively both on Biblical exegetical and interpretational matters, and on matters of contemporary worldviews and issues.  Many evangelical scholars tend to focus on one or the other, but Carson is highly respected in both areas.  This work deals with perhaps the most vexing question that has ever faced the human race, the question of suffering.  For what Carson is trying to accomplish here, I think he does an exquisite job.<br />As Carson indicates at the start of this book, the book is not an attempt to provide a full orbed theodicy that will cover all aspects of suffering or the problem of evil.  This is not a book that is devoted to exploring the philosophical origins of evil and how such origins reflect on the existence or nature of God.  Carson does devote about two chapters to this, but it is not the thrust of the book, as Carson properly points out at the start.  This is a book written to Christians mainly as 'preventive medicine' as Carson describes it.<br />It appears that what Carson is trying to achieve here is to provide the reader with a rather comprehensive analysis of what Scripture says about suffering, and equally important, what Scripture does not say.  I thought that a big strength of the book was Carson's insistence on not going beyond the Biblical text to find more palatable or easy answers to such vexing questions that might make people feel better, but are not especially faithful to Scripture.  Carson's mission appears to be to lay out for the reader what the Bible says and acknowledging the tensions that the Bible gives us on many aspects of the issue of suffering without using these tensions as an excuse to throw up his hands and declare incoherency.  It is here that Carson's supreme expertise in Biblical exegesis becomes evident, and it is a source of comfort to the reader.<br />I was very impressed with Carson's willingness to repeatedly tackle tough questions and not shying away from difficult Scripture passages.  As he says numerous times, the book is not necessarily offering full orbed answers to every tough question, but it is offering very sound and compelling thoughts where Scripture is clear, and acknowledging a certain amount of mystery over what is not clear, and clearly defining both.  <br />Overall, I felt that the book was extremely balanced and thoroughly grounded in Scripture.  This is a book that in my view, properly refrains from the extremes of offering overly simplistic answers that pretend to comprehensively deal with this topic, as well as the extreme of overly appealing to divine mystery as a way of dodging the tough questions.  This is the best book I've read on the problem of evil that is something other than a philosophical defense.  This is an exegetical defense, and a very good one.<br />Lastly, it needs to be pointed out who ought to read this book.  I don't think an unbeliever will get much out of this, as Carson states.  It is a book written by a Christian, for Christians who are not looking to use the issue of suffering to debate the existence of God.  Likewise, I don't think it's the first book that Christians who are in the grips of suffering should pick up and read either.  As Carson states, this is not a book that's really meant to comfort someone who is in the grips of suffering, but rather a book that is meant to provide a Christian foundation for suffering BEFORE the suffering comes so that Christians will have a better basis for coming to grips with it.  Although I do think that those who are in the grips of suffering would profit from this book, I think the main audience for this book are Christians who are looking for a Biblical foundation for suffering.  I also think that pastors and lay leaders would also greatly profit from this book since I thought there were a number of outstanding insights geared towards those Christians who are called to minister to those who are enduring suffering.  It should also be pointed out that because the book was written 10 years ago, some of the discourse on AIDS is outdated and should be taken cautiously.<br />An outstanding book for what it deals with.	2002-09-29
US	50142550	R1GCB183MV7KA7	1581342993	538212722	The Doctrines of Grace: Rediscovering the Evangelical Gospel	Books	5	43	43	N	N	A Very Good Introduction to Calvinism	This work is a collaborative effort of the late James Montgomery Boice and his successor at Tenth Presbyterian Church in Philadelphia, Philip Ryken.  This is not a book that will make everyone happy because it deliberately intends to chasten contemporary evangelicalism on a number of fronts.  But I felt that it was a very good introduction to Reformed theology that both seasoned theologians and amateurs to theological thought can profit from.<br />The controversial nature of the book begins in the first sentence of the first chapter, when it announces that evangelicalism stands or falls with Calvinism, as B.B. Warfield once remarked.  From this, the authors lament what they believe is the state of thorough worldliness that has established residency within the evangelical church, and their belief that a return to the core tenets of Reformed theology is the best and only effective antidote.<br />From there, a solid introductory analysis of the 5 points of Calvinism is given.  I found that these analyses were pretty thorough, yet very readable and understandable at an introductory level.  In contrast to the rather elevated language of folks like Kuyper, Boettner, Machen, Warfield, and Hodge, Boice and Ryken bring the fundamentals of Reformed theology down to a layperson's level while still being unapologetic about these beliefs.  In this analysis of the 5 points, the authors effectively take on some of the more common objections to Reformed theology that tend to surface, although again, because of the introductory nature of the book, the reader should not expect full orbed and exhaustive rebuttals here.  The one rebuttal that I thought was especially insightful was where the authors, while responding to the objection that Reformed theology relies too much on the 'two wills of God' to harmonize their theology, point out that the free-will theists who tend to voice this objection engage in exactly the same thing by suggesting by default that in contrast to God's revealedwill in the Bible, God's primary purpose (or secret will) is in preserving the supposed free will of man.  Very insightful point.<br />The authors also devote a great deal of time both to analyzing the fruits of Calvinism in history, as well as presenting a Calvinist life view that penetrates all aspects of life and civilization.  On the latter point, the authors appear to pattern the Calvinist worldview heavily upon the views of Kuyper as articulated at Princeton over 100 years ago.  While I found this section to be very good and very refreshing in many ways, it should be understood by the reader that Calvinism has not historically been, nor is currently monolithic in how it views the believer's attitude and involvement in politics, science, art, and other areas.  Nonetheless, I found that Boice and Ryken offered some very good thoughts in this area.<br />Overall, I highly commend this book to someone who is interested in studying and learning about the Reformed faith, especially those who are just beginning this journey.  This book is very helpful for those who are new to theology, but is also quite useful to those with more experience in this area.  A very good book.	2002-09-29
US	50142550	R1L09XQR0OMJI	0764225219	659539617	Chosen But Free	Books	2	143	195	N	N	Disappointing Effort from a Highly Respected Scholar	In some ways, this book was tough for me to review.  I consider myself to be of a Reformed theological bent and knew going in that I would likely disagree with Geisler's book.  However, I have long had great respect for Geisler and have personally profited a great deal from a number of his writings in apologetics and Bibliology.  I wanted to give this book as fair a hearing as I could give it, given my own admitted theological biases, and I suppose it is up to other reviewers and interested onlookers here at Amazon as to whether this review succeeds in that effort.<br />There are a couple of places where I thought CBF was good.  I thought that the first chapter on God's sovereignty was well in order and a good way to lead off the book.  I also felt that Geisler's critique of open theism (he calls it neotheism) was very good as well.  Given Geisler's theological persuasion, I have great respect for the fact that Geisler has been one of the leading voices to speak out against open theism.  It's easy for a five point Calvinist to come out strongly against open theism, since it is almost a complete rejection of Reformed theology in favor of an elevated man/reduced God theology.  I would imagine that it's probably much more difficult for non-Calvinists or 'moderate Calvinists' as Geisler likes to define himself, to do the same thing since Arminians are clearly more sympathetic to liberationism even though many do not go that far.<br />Having said this, however, Geisler's book has many severe weaknesses in it that compel me to the low review I've given it.  First, and perhaps most devastating, is that Geisler's book is mostly devoid of any in-depth exegesis of Scripture.  There is a lot of Scripture quoting, but not a lot of exegesis.  Geisler's reputation is one of being an outstanding philosopher, a Thomistic philosopher in particular.  Therefore, one of the charges that has been leveled at CBF is that Geisler is imposing his philosophy on Scripture, rather than lettingScripture drive his philosophy.  Unfortunately, I am inclined to concur with this criticism in regards to this book.  This book is simply not exegetically driven, and that is a huge weakness.  As Geisler should well know, anyone can rattle off Scripture verses to try and support one's view.  That doesn't mean that Scripture actually supports that view.  An honest examination of what Scripture teaches must include the kind of exegesis that gets below the surface and attempts to seriously interact with the text.  Throughout CBF, I detected a 'mile wide, inch deep' approach to Scriptural examination which I found highly disappointing. <br />Second, Geisler's handling of Reformed scholars and writings in CBF is both highly selective and inaccurate.  Geisler makes a habit here of quoting from secondary sources rather than dealing directly with the material he apparently disagrees with.  Further, when he did cite primary sources, he tended to do this in an incomplete manner that raises serious contextual problems with the validity of his scholarship here.  In particular, Geisler's treatment of Spurgeon's thought was excessively cannibalistic in this regard.<br />Third, Geisler's use of terminology is problematic.  Particularly revealing was toward the end of the book when he attempted to contrast 'extreme Calvinism' with the 'moderate Calvinism' he claims to hold.  I found it quite amazing that what he was calling moderate Calvinism looked an awful lot like 4 point Arminianism, with Geisler only dissenting from mainstream Arminianism on the issue of eternal security.  Being of a Reformed persuasion myself, I tried to give Geisler the benefit of the doubt on this and tried to see if his theology was in fact something other than Arminianism.  But then I read what was perhaps the most revealing chapter of the book, which was his critique of 'extreme Arminianism'.  I felt that surely, if Geisler is in fact a moderate Calvinist, we would see it here.  But in fact, what Geisler calls 'extreme Arminianism' is open theism.  Now while he was certainly correct to reject this view, he does not touch Arminianism.  And I think the reason is clear - he can't criticize what he himself subscribes to.<br />I was still prepared to give the book 3 stars until I read the appendix which details his response to The Potter's Freedom by James White.  Frankly, I felt that this response was even weaker than the rest of the book.  Again, Geisler does not offer any Scriptural exegesis to refute White and bolster his own view, and I found his critique of White to be decidedly hypocritical.  To accuse White of name calling and ad hominem argumentation when Geisler called mainstream Calvinism 'extreme' and 'morally repugnant' among other things in CBF was highly hypocritical.  I found each of Geisler's critiques of White to actually be very applicable to his own book.  And again, no Scriptural exegesis is offered to either refute White, or support the tenets of CBF.<br />In the end, I felt that Geisler unnecessarily asks readers to adopt an either/or mentality that I think is absolutely wrong, and one that I'm sure even he would disagree with.  Given the significant lack of substantive exegesis of Scripture in CBF, I think it's hard for the reader to conclude from this work that Geisler's position has been adequately supported Scripturally.  Again, there's a monumental difference between quoting Scripture and exegetically interpreting Scripture.  Therefore, I think Geisler ends up creating a false choice where the reader must either decide that Geisler's view is correct without having much Biblical argumentation to support it, or they must conclude that Geisler is out to lunch on this issue because he is substituting human philosophy in place of Scriptural exegesis.  I don't think there has to be a divorce of these things.  I think human philosophy can be a very good thing - when it is anchored in Scripture.  I was hoping that Geisler would put forth a meaningful argument that effectively interacted with Scripture.  He did not, in my view.  And I think this is regretable.	2002-09-23
US	50142550	R2NYA1FSLY992M	0801070880	338092384	The Sovereignty of God	Books	5	67	68	N	N	Truly a Reformed Classic	This book, and this edition of the book in particular, is Arthur Pink's full discourse on the sovereignty of God.  It is a book that has been a source of intense controversy and impassioned views.  Not everyone will agree with what Pink argues here.  In fact, most will probably disagree with some portion of this discourse.  Nonetheless, he presents an immensely powerful and mostly persuasive argument on the sovereignty of God within a high Calvinist theological framework.<br />Pink's discourse is thorough, very well documented Biblically, and passionate in what it seeks to present.  When he wrote this book, Pink was clearly concerned about the elevation of man and his abilities at the expense of the sovereignty of God throughout Christendom.  He understood that presenting a high Calvinist view of God's sovereignty would not win any popularity contests, and he was certainly right about this.  But even while not agreeing completely with Pink's views here, I have to say that I found this book to be the best systematic treatment of this issue that I have yet read.<br />I felt that Pink did a good job of clearly establishing the sovereignty of God in all things, including election.  I also felt that Pink's discourse on human responsibility and accountability for his actions was utterly outstanding.  The reconciliation of human responsibility or 'free-will' in light of God's sovereignty has been a central issue in Christianity throughout its history.  I felt that Pink's attempt at reconciling the difficulty is a very significant achievement that moves the discussion in a very positive direction.  Throughout his discourse, Pink's Biblical exegesis is thorough and often compelling.<br />I mentioned at the start of this review that this particular edition of Pink's work is a source of great controversy.  The reason is because of two main arguments put forth by Pink in this edition that were deleted by the Banner of Truth edition.  The first is Pink's argument in favor of limited atonement that argues that Christ did not die for the sins of the whole world on the cross, but only for the sins of God's elect.  This is by far the most controversial and debated point of the 5 points of Calvinism.  Many self described Calvinists reject this point in favor of a modified form of unlimited atonement, but Pink argues forcefully for the limited atonement view here.  Second, and even more controversial, is Pink's lengthy discourse on what is known as 'double predestination'.  This is the view that God not only actively elects certain people to be saved, but also actively condemns people to torment.  Again, most Calvinists today reject double predestination, but Pink, in the longest chapter of this book, strongly affirms this doctrine.  This chapter is the single most controversial aspect of this book, among many controversial aspects, and was deleted in its entirety in the Banner of Truth edition of the book.<br />While I don't think I personally agree with the doctrine of double predestination as Pink presents it, I found myself nonetheless grateful for having read Pink's views on this topic.  It has caused me to dig deeper in my thinking to arrive at my own theological convictions.  As a result, even though I disagree with some of what Pink wrote, I consider this book to be among the most profitable I've read, and highly commend it to readers who want a clear-cut, unapologetic presentation from a highly Reformed perspective on the sovereignty of God and how it manifests itself, as well as human responsibility in light of God's sovereignty.  A classic treatise that will challenge the reader mightily.	2002-09-02
US	50142550	R33KA07NZMSMMN	1576831434	600954045	Faith Has Its Reasons : An Integrative Approach to Defending Christianity	Books	5	30	31	N	N	For What it Does, it is the best Contemporary Work in Print	Boa and Bowman have put together a lengthy survey on apologetic methods within Christianity.  In the process, they have surpassed all other comparative apologetic works by cogently and thoroughly examining apologetic methods and the great thinkers who have subscribed to the various methods.<br />This book is extremely useful for a number of reasons.  It's obvious strength is its thorough treatment of four major apologetic methods; classical, evidential, presuppositional, and fideist.  This book is the best in print in dispassionately presenting each view, its strengths and weaknesses, and how each view interacts with various apologetic issues and objections.  The reader will gain a solid working knowledge of apologetic school of thought to reflect upon and possibly incorporate in their own approach to apologetics.<br />Second, this book provides one of the best summary level examinations of many prominent Christian thinkers throughout church history.  Anybody who wants a good summary treatment on the thinking of folks like Pascal, Kierkegaard, Van Til, Clark, Kuyper, Barth, Craig, Plantinga, Geisler, Aquinas, and many others will find it here.  <br />Third, their demonstration of how each apologetic system interacts with key issues such as science, theology, the Bible, Jesus Christ, etc is very informative.  I found these examinations to be very insightful, since it impressed upon me the reality that evangelical Christianity is not at all monolithic in how it views the relationship of apologetics to these vital issues.  Through this diversity of thought, I have found my own approach to apologetics expanded and challenged in a very healthy way.<br />Lastly, the authors truly invoke a spirit of Christian love throughout this book.  The authors clearly hold to the view that great Christians can and have held to each apologetical method, and the authors have properly resisted any attempt to use apologetical method as a litmus test to judge the level of anyone's Christian walk.  This is very refreshing, and is definitely a step in the right direction.  While properly pointing out where certain thinkers in each camp have strayed from acceptable evangelicalism (Barth and his errant view of Scripture, Pinnock and his god of limited omniscience, etc), they affirm the value of each apologetic method and the thinkers who hold to each view.<br />At the end of the book, the authors attempt an integration of each method which I found helpful and balanced.  The authors properly note that pure integration may not be possible, and might not be desirable either.  I felt that the biggest strength of their integration approach was the belief that each apologetic method is useful for reaching certain people who hold certain objections or presuppositions, and that these apologetic approaches can be integrated somewhat with certain methods being more emphasized than others based upon the beliefs and views of the person we are in dialogue with.  <br />The only weakness of the book is that while it does attempt to deal with tangible objections such as in the inspiration of Scripture, the deity of Christ, and the problem of evil, readers who are looking for comprehensive apologetic responses to these issues may not be satisfied by what's here.  This is a book that deals with apologetic method, and while it does show how each method generally responds to these kind of objections and issues, the reader will not really find a systematic treatment here, although I should stress that what is covered in these areas is very helpful.<br />But since this is not really the thrust of the book, I do not see it as a weakness of the book worthy of demoting the 5 star rating I've given it.  This is a thoroughly researched book which in my view, presents the best contemporary treatment of apologetic methods in a spirit of Christian love that will hopefully serve as a model for further development of respectful apologetic method in the future.  A well done book that ishighly recommended.	2002-08-26
US	50142550	R2YQWW9W6BV3LO	0842313354	136742732	Chosen by God	Books	4	4	4	N	N	A Very Good Book that's Close to Being Great	RC Sproul wrote this book some time ago now, but it is still a standard text for understanding the reformed doctrine of predestination and probably will be for some time.  There are a number of compelling strengths of this book which make the book worthy of purchase, but it is a book that could have been improved in a couple of ways as well.<br />This book is a very smooth read.  The book is about 200 pages, and I read the whole thing in about a six hour timespan.  The book flowed very well from chapter to chapter, and as a reader, I found myself almost gliding through the material, not because it's watered down, but because the writing style is so smooth.  Because of this, I think this book might well be the best beginner level book on predestination available, because it allows a reader who is interested in a difficult doctrine but not well versed in theologeze or doctrinal debates the ability to grapple with this doctrine in a meaningful way without getting lost or bogged down.<br />Having cited the above strength, however, I want to make clear that this book does indeed deal substantively with this doctrine in a way that more experienced readers will find profitable.  Sproul effectively takes on the contemporary views concerning free will.  In particular, he eloquently demonstrates that the popular view of equating free will with autonomy is utterly absurd on every level.  In addition, he does a good exegetical job of dealing with a number of passages in Scripture that relate to this topic.  <br />While these strengths commend the book nicely and make it a very good read, I thought the book could have been improved.  In my view, Sproul does not effectively deal with the 'fatalism' objection.  As Sproul mentions in his chapter on objections, it is difficult to thoroughly deal with these objections without writing whole treatises on them.  But the objection of fatalism is perhaps the most serious objection to Reformed theology and to this doctrine in particular.In my view, anyone writing a book on the Reformed doctrine of predestination has to know that this objection is the single biggest reaction against the doctrine, and as such, any book that attempts to meaningfully deal with the doctrine has to substantively interact with this objection.  Sproul does not, and it is a weakness of the book.<br />Sproul's discourse on the role of evangelism, given the Reformed view of predestination, was also too sparse.  Sproul's argumentation basically boils down to saying that evangelism is necessary only by divine fiat, as opposed to a more developed Reformed view.  Lastly, Sproul's treatment of the problem of evil also could have been a bit better.  But again, in these kind of theological discussions, it's hard to separate the problem of evil from the objection of fatalism.  If one isn't effectively dealt with, the chances are that the other won't be either.<br />So while I recognize that my criticisms of the book may seem harsh, I still want to stress that this book is very good because although it has its weaknesses, its strengths are formidable and informative, and are worthy of consideration and reflection.	2002-08-26
US	50142550	R2OXDZY6GYKD0T	0801062225	498968532	Scaling the Secular City: A Defense of Christianity	Books	5	28	32	N	N	One of the Better Contemporary Apologetic Resources	Moreland wrote this book 15 years ago at a time when the intellectual veracity of evangelical thought was being attacked from all sides.  15 years later, there is a growing, albeit grudgingly, consensus among secular scholars and philosophers that intellectual evangelicalism is not the intellectual lightweight that many once thought.  Moreland has proven himself to be one of an increasing number of evangelical thinkers that have forced such a reappraisal due to his sound argumentation, internally consistent philosophy, and compelling apologetical viewpoints.  This book was Moreland's attempt to bring his level of evangelical thought out of the seminary classroom and outside obscure scholarly journals, to everyday readers.  I believe he succeeds in this effort.<br />Moreland clearly demonstrates himself to be of a classical apologetic bent, by putting forth and defending many of the traditional arguments for God's existence.  His discourse on the cosmological argument is very good, as is his design argument.  These philosophical arguments have been sources of severe debate for decades, not only between theists and non-theists, but also among theists of differing apologetic approaches.  I happen to agree with Moreland that these arguments remain compelling and have actually been made sharper as a result of the many arguments that have been waged against them.<br />Overall, I felt that Moreland has produced an effective multifaceted presentation for why belief in the Christian God is plausible and reasonable, and that such belief appears to stand on firmer ground than believing in alternative viewpoints.  <br />Although I admit that this is not a fair criticism, I will point out something to interested readers.  A few years after this book by Moreland, Bill Craig came out with his 'Reasonable Faith'.  In my view, Craig's book is stronger on the cosmological argument, the veracity of the Bible and the resurrection of Christ than Moreland is here in this book.  I recognize that it's not really fair to demote the review of this book based on a book that came out subsequently, and that's why I'm giving this book 5 stars.  At the time, it was probably the best contemporary apologetic in print that was accessible to a wide audience of lay readers.  But given a choice between this book and 'Reasonable Faith' by Craig, I believe the latter is a slightly better book for today's reader.  I highly recommend both and believe that everyday Christians should pray for God to give them a passion to study these issues and reflect upon them, so that they may be equipped to lovingly contend for the faith in a world that's trying to convince them their beliefs are wrong, as well as to enhance and deepen one's own Christian walk by intellectually meditating upon these issues and how they relate to the God we worship.	2002-08-06
US	50142550	R1U0OE3E69DAXS	0877847940	50042379	The Meaning of the Millennium: Four Views	Books	4	86	86	N	N	Quite Good, but could have been better	Eschatological views within evangelicalism have long been a source of serious division between believers.  This book, in a succinct way, offers the presentation of 4 major views of the millennium, each view represented by one scholar.  Like other books of its kind, the book is presented in such a way that each eschatological position is presented by the scholar advocating such a position, and then the other 3 scholars representing other points of view have the opportunity to critique the presentation.  Given that the four scholars represented in this book are all respected to varying degrees, I felt that this format worked quite well in this book.<br />I felt that the two views represented the best were by far the historic premil and amillennial views articulated by Ladd and Hoekema respectively.  Both did a good job of providing a rather thorough presentation of their respective views.  I also felt that Hoekema did the best job of critiquing the other 3 views in his short rebuttals to the other 3 proposals.  Ladd certainly could have been better in this regard.<br />I frankly wasn't expecting much from Hoyt, and both his presentation of dispensational premil and his rebuttals were about what I expected - which was disappointing.  As was pointed out in the rebuttals to his view, Hoyt did not even attempt to provide an exegesis of Rev. 20:1-6 in his proposal, which is a monumental deficiency in his presentation.  In addition, Hoyt, like many dispensationalists unfortunately, had no effective way to defend their 'literal' interpretation technique against the many well argued points made against it by the other 3 scholars.  Since interpretation technique is the central issue in each millennial view presented, Hoyt's inability to effectively defend the technique he is adopting to argue his position is another serious deficiency in his presentation.<br />But in my view, the biggest disappointment was Boettner's presentation on postmillennialism.  Like Hoyt, no analysis of Rev. 20 is found in his proposal, and even worse, Boettner doesn't offer up any significant exegesis of any Biblical passages at all.  Boettner's entire argument is not one that is Biblically based, but is one that tries to experientially look at the world and argue that it's getting better over time.  As Ladd points out, this is a double edged sword, but even more than that, even if one accepts Boettner's premise, that doesn't automatically mean that postmillennialism is the correct eschatological view.  His presentation was universally deficient, and that's a real shame coming from a scholar as respected as Boettner.  And this is the main reason why I'm giving this book 4 stars instead of 5.  As a view, postmillenialism was not represented well at all here, and that's unfortunate.  Put simply, this view was not presented with any Scriptural basis at all.<br />The other major criticism I have of the book is Clouse's postscript which seems to heavily criticize premillennialism.  I found Clouse's postscript to be flat out inaccurate in parts, or at the very least, seriously outdated in its criticisms.  Premillennialists, as a group, do not shun the liberal arts as a legitimate and necessary field of study, nor do they shun social activism as a result of their eschatology.  It is true that there are way too many end times hunters on the scene who repeatedly make themselves look bad by trying to predict certain end times events by interpreting supposed present day signs of the end of the world.  I certainly agree that to the extent that these end times hunters are 'teachers' in the Biblical sense, they should be held to severe accountability when their teachings prove to be wrong, but that way too often, these guys are instead given a free pass to continue teaching error and that this is an embarassment to the entire Body of Christ.  But Clouse's other negative contentions regarding premillennialism are decidedly out of place and inaccurate.<br />Overall, I think many readers will come away from reading this book with a much better understanding of what the points of contention are between the varying millennial views, and why such points of contention exist.  While the postmillennial view clearly should have been presented better, the book still provides a solid basis to understand what each view is saying and why they are saying it.  The reader may also conclude, as I did, that each view presented has certain strengths and weaknesses, and that no system of millennialism has been proposed that doesn't have weaknesses in it.  But this book will provide a very good jumping off point for readers to further explore these views in more detail and reach their own convictions about which millennial view is most faithful to the entirety of Scriptural truth.	2002-08-02
US	50142550	R1BFZEK8NLJW06	0802415474	967362942	The Church in God's program	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Good Introductory Work in Ecclesiology	Saucy wrote this book a number of years ago, but it is still a frequently used text in a number of seminaries, particularly those of a dispensationalist bent.  It's a good book that will expose the reader in a pretty summarized fashion to the major issues in ecclesiology, or the study of the church.<br />Among the strengths of the book are that most every traditional ecclesiastical issue is covered in this book - church government, ordinances, discipline, church officers, and how the church figures into the study of eschatology.  Saucy's analysis of these areas is sufficiently detailed to be pretty thorough, while presenting many of the distinctives in summary fashion.  Saucy provides a very good bibliography at the end for readers to conduct further studies on particular areas of interest.<br />There are a few weaknesses which compel me to give the book a 4 star rating.  First, the book is frankly pretty dry.  Thus, it is not likely to be the kind of book that a casual reader would pick up and read.  Ecclesiology may not be the most riveting theological topic in existence, but there are many issues in this area of study that are important and interesting.  But it is very difficult to find any book emphasizing ecclesiastical issues that has captured the attention of casual readers and lay Christians.  It would be nice if such a book existed, but this book by Saucy isn't it.  Secondly, because the book is an ecclesiastical summary, it is uniquely positioned in the realm of ecclesiastical studies.  The purpose of the book may have been to present these issues in a way that lay readership could understand, while also being a useful tool for more advanced studies.  As indicated, I don't think the book particularly succeeds in speaking to the lay reader, and because it's a summary oriented book, it's usefulness to the scholar is also somewhat limited (although again, the bibliography is quite helpful in this regard), although I think it's very useful to seminary students.  Lastly, Saucy is a progressive dispensationalist and his eschatological treatment of the church in this book is decidedly dispensationalist.  For readers who reject dispensationalism, this area of Saucy's book will be a disappointment.<br />However, it is a good book with sufficient amounts of material to help seminary students as well as lay readers who are interested in getting their feet wet in ecclesiology, although the material tends to be presented in a rather dry fashion here.	2002-07-31
US	50142550	R3VJMC7GGAH3NN	0802811213	279635094	Christianity and Liberalism	Books	5	11	13	N	N	A Classic that has unfortunately stood the test of time	This book, while certainly brilliant, is one that I wish had never needed to be written.  Further, it is a book that I wish would not need to be read today.  Why?  Because both the initial writing of the book as well as its sustained relevance represents an atrocious and constant backsliding on the part of many within the so-called body of Christ towards a religion that is indeed different than the historic Christian faith.<br />Machen echoes what should be common knowledge among believers today, which is that many theological liberals have successfully coopted many buzzwords within Christianese, redefined them to suit their theological leanings, and made them their own to such a degree that it is quite amazing that many who sound quite Christian in their terminology are advocating such decidedly unChristian philosophies.  Contemporary defenders of the Christian faith, if they could take just one thing away from this book, should carefully note the extensive detail Machen gives to emphasizing the need for clear definitions of terms so that everyone knows what meanings and concepts everyone else is applying to certain critical words.  Often, the sharp theological and philosophical differences that many try to downplay become very stark and very clear quite early on once people are respectfully asked to explain what definitions and ideas they ascribe to certain terms.  This approach is of critical need in our apologetic and defense today.<br />Machen does a brilliant job of showing that theological liberalism, no matter how Christian it sounds, denies the essence of the Christian faith by denying the infallibility of the Bible, the deity of Christ, the sovereignty of God, the process of salvation, and the proper role of the Church.  Such backslidden conditions are officially commonplace, unfortunately, in many of the mainline denominations.  But such backslidden views are also becoming commonplace, albeit unofficially, among many Roman Catholics and evangelicals as well.  I am convinced that these results are due in sufficient measure to the sometimes deliberate deemphasizing of theological fundamentals in many contemporary church pulpits today in an effort to present a more accessible faith to unbelievers.  And while I don't have a problem with the latter by itself, I believe when this goal is supposedly achieved by backburnering the basic doctrines upon which the historic Christian faith stands or falls, we should not be surprised when we see otherwise faithful believers embracing concepts that the Bible clearly and repeatedly runs in opposition to.  <br />In summary, given the continued official theological drift of many of the mainline denominations, coupled with an alarming unofficial drift among many supposed theological conservatives, I believe that Machen's work, unfortunately, should be required reading for pastors, staffmembers, and adult education students in every church in America that wants to stay true to the historic faith and says it is committed to doing so.  This book, in a concise way, clearly shines a light on the lines of demarkation between theological liberalism and conservatism.  And in the process, successfully refutes the bankruptcy of the former and affirming the integrity of the latter.  I wish the Church was in better shape and being more faithful to the God we claim to worship.  But until that happens, I think Machen's work will continue to be relevant and sorely needed as a devastating rebuke of humanism dressed in Christian linguistics.	2002-07-09
US	50142550	R375XV9EVNQ13	187761193X	54153407	Justification by Faith Alone: Affirming the Doctrine by Which the Church and the Individual Stands or Falls (Reformation Theology Series)	Books	5	11	14	N	N	A very good introductory work on a critical doctrine	Soli Deo Gloria publications has put out a very good compilation effort here that strongly affirms a central Protestant doctrine that continues to divide Rome and Protestantism.<br />Similar to the compilation effort 'Sola Scriptura', this book provides a solid introductory framework upon which beginners can clearly see why the doctrine is important, what Roman Catholicism and Protestantism both say about the issue, and that the difference in viewpoints on this doctrine are immensely important.  The Protestant view is that human beings are justified in the sight of God on the basis of faith alone in Jesus Christ.  Nothing else can add to this legal status that believers have with God - not good works, not penance, not sacramental exercises, or anything else.  Roman Catholicism has anathemized such a view, affirming that while faith is necessary for salvation, it is not sufficient by itself and needs to be augmented by sacramental observances, good works, etc.  At issue here is a fundamental disagreement over the nature of salvation.  Is salvation a monergistic effort, meaning that God does the work because we are so completely dead in our sins that we are incapable of choosing the spiritual good absent a work of God, or is salvation a synergistic effort where man cooperates with God on an ongoing basis to ensure salvation.  The Protestant, or at least the Reformed view, is that the act of justification is totally an act of God by which in His immense grace, He chooses us, bestows efficacious grace on us, and saves us from our sin.  The act of ongoing obedience to God and being conformed to the image of Christ is the process of progressive sanctification, which is a separate work and does not have anything to do with one's legal standing before God (justification).  Rome's view has long mixed justification and sanctification together so that the work of sanctification becomes part of one's legal standing before God, rather than an independent work of God in the lifeof a believer who has already been declared legally righteous before God through faith.  I thought this book did an outstanding job of sufficiently getting into the nuances of thought here in order to shine a very bright light on exactly what the differences are and why they are important.  Clearly, a person's view on this issue makes a very big difference in terms of how they view themselves, God, the Church, the afterlife, and a host of other things.<br />I felt that Armstrong's chapter on why justification is through faith ALONE was the highlight of the book.  The Protestant view is very defendable in light of Scripture, and I would certainly agree with the authors that this view is decidedly more faithful to a good contextual reading of Scripture than Rome's position.  I also felt that Rome's misunderstanding of the Protestant doctrine (that this doctrine leads to antinomianism or unholy and inconsequential living) was well refuted here.<br />In summary, this text is an introductory work, but very valuable as a standard reference on this foundational doctrine.  It is well documented and easy to read, which makes it very accessible to the beginner but also intellectually satisfying to the more experienced reader.	2002-07-09
US	50142550	R3HGYK9KPTI9AB	1573580287	795418932	Sola Scriptura: The Protestant Position on the Bible (Reformation Theology Series)	Books	5	58	68	N	N	Solid Introductory Work on Central Protestant Doctrine	This book is written by a compilation of authors who successfully articulate and defend the Protestant doctrine of sola scriptura, and also successfully contrast this doctrine with the practical sola ecclesia of Roman Catholicism.  Similar to Soli Deo Gloria's Justification by Faith Alone compilation, this book is a solid introduction that clearly and unmistakenly reveals that the theological and doctrinal differences between Roman Catholicism and Protestantism are real and substantive and should not be mindlessly thrown aside in the interests of achieving a unity without foundational meaning.<br />The reader of this book, once the book is read, is faced with a choice.  Roman Catholicism has repeatedly made itself clear that it denies the unequal authority and sufficiency of Scripture over doctrine and salvation, in favor of a doctrine of Scripture plus 'Sacred Tradition' as being sufficient.  However, it has long been clear that Roman Catholicism's 'Sacred Scripture plus Sacred Tradition' concept is really based on a more fundamental doctrine of sola ecclesia.  This is the view that states that since both Scripture and Tradition have their origins in the church, both are ultimately subject to the authority of the church in terms of interpretation and dogmatics.  And herein lies the central disagreement on this issue - is the Bible alone sufficient in providing humanity with the gospel message and the ability to embrace salvation, or is the Bible by itself insufficient and thus needs to be augmented by church tradition and ex cathedra pronouncements from Rome?  This is the dividing line, and it's a very clear one.  Has God preserved His Word in sufficient detail that people can properly interpret its contents without an official and earthly third party mediator between God and man, or has God destined the Roman Catholic Church to be the preserver of His Word and to be the final authority on correct Biblical interpretation upon which all believers should assent?<br />This book leaves no doubt that this fundamental difference between Roman Catholicism and Protestantism exists, that it is substantial, and that the answers we arrive at on these questions go a long way towards framing our theological outlook.  I happen to strongly believe that the Protestant position is by far the more defendable position.  The Roman Catholic arguments that Scripture doesn't teach the view of Scripture alone are very weak arguments that are contextually shallow, in my view.  I thought that James White's chapter was the best part of the book, although Sproul's chapter is also very good.  I'm aware that White is held in particular revulsion among many Roman Catholics, but his extensive citations of the early church fathers and their views continue to be tough for the modern Roman Catholic to deal with.  White, as he has done multiple times before, shows quite convincingly that Roman Catholic doctrine is inconsistent over time, with many contemporary Catholic views on things such as what exactly is 'sacred tradition' not reconciling very well with the views of the early church.  To me, this is quite clear that such inconsistency (or even an evolving perspective that is more sympathetic to Rome) casts serious doubt on the viability of the notion that the Roman Catholic Church alone has authority over Scripture and Tradition in such a way that it adequately reflects the unchanging character of God.<br />In summary, this is an introductory work, so I highly recommend this book for beginners who want to understand one of the central doctrines that separate Protestantism from Roman Catholicism, and why it matters.  In an age of increasing ecumenism that has witnessed a number of mainline Protestant denominations jettisoning the doctrinal distinctives of the Reformation in order to achieve a supposed unity with a Church that hasn't moved an inch away from the doctrinal distinctives that created the Reformation in the first place, it would be a good thing for Christians either to familiarize or refamiliarize themselves with who's saying what, who believes what, and why such differences are hugely important in preserving the integrity of the faith.	2002-07-09
US	50142550	R236V5WPN7JQQ7	0825425107	226657164	Satisfied by the Promise of the Spirit: Affirming the Fullness of God's Provision for Spiritual Living	Books	4	18	19	N	N	Despite some holes, a good articulation of Cessationism	Thomas Edgar has put forward this effort as an attempt to argue for the ceasing of certain spiritual gifts such as tongues, miracles, healings, etc.  In the process, he critiques some of the positions held by prominent folks in the charismatic camp who believe these gifts are still operative today.  While still not personally convicted of cessationism, I think Edgar does advance some very good points for this position.<br />First of all, I want to comment on Edgar's theological bent for those who might be concerned about it.  It is true that Edgar is a dispensationalist who teaches at a heavily dispensationalist seminary.  But for the most part, I found that this book really did not heavily emphasize dispensationalism per se.  So for those who might be concerned about reading this book because of the possibility that it would be Walvoordian in terms of being soaked with dispensationalism, I personally don't think this book does that, which I consider a plus.<br />The clear strength of the book is Edgar's Biblical exegesis of various contentious passages in the spiritual gifts debate, most notably Acts 2 and 1 Corinthians 12-14.  His conclusion that the contemporary charismatic view and practice of tongues bears almost no resemblance to the authentic gift discussed in Scripture is very persuasive.  I also felt that he made a very strong argument relative to the elimination of the 'office' of apostle shortly after the end of the first century, and thus the uniquely apostolic gifts ceased with them.  This is a powerful argument, especially since the charismatics in the operative camp tend to rely heavily on experiential arguments to advance their cause, but run up against difficulties in explaining the lack of documented and authenticated experiences of spiritual gifts throughout church history.  This is a strong point in Edgar's favor.<br />Edgar also does a good job of critiquing the musings of Wayne Grudem relative to his theory of reduced, or 'fallible' gifts stillbeing operative today.  Grudem is a highly respected scholar and someone I personally respect a great deal, but I think Edgar does a very good job of invalidating Grudem's hypothesis here.<br />Edgar is less successful in his extensive critique of Jack Deere.  Now while I don't have any particular allegiance to Deere or his views, I felt that Edgar was being terribly inconsistent in his treatment of Deere.  Edgar chides Deere for his emphasis on experience rather than sound Biblical exegesis, arguing that experience is not a valid barometer of truth.  Fair enough.  The problem is that Edgar himself puts forth an experience argument in favor of cessationism in this book, in addition to his Biblical exegesis argument.  Edgar spends one chapter arguing that church history supports cessationism.  But what Edgar is really doing here is relying on experience, or a lack thereof, throughout church history in order to make this case.  So in this respect, he is violating his own scholarship standards.  Now, to be fair, Edgar obviously knew that he was going to be vulnerable to such a charge, which is why he spends quite a few pages early on in the book trying to define what he means by 'experience' in such a way as to exclude his historical argument from being an argument from experience.  But in an effort to wiggle around in such a way as to supposedly immune his historical argument from the experience emphasis upon which he then criticizes Deere, I found his definitional gymnastics to be decidedly unpersuasive.  The bottom line is that when Edgar decided to offer up an experience argument of his own, he lost quite a bit of credibility to then turn around and criticize Deere for doing the same thing.  This represents a formidable weakness in this book in terms of sound and consistent scholarship.<br />But nonetheless, I give the book 4 stars because I do think the section on Biblical exegesis goes a long way towards rescuing the cessationist perspective he's trying to defend.  Edgar clearly should have stayed away from his historical argument due to the compromising position it puts him in relative to critiquing others with scholarship standards he exempts himself from.  If a cessationist believes that the weight of church history favors cessationism, he can use this point without formally advancing it as part of his own apologetic.  If Jack Deere or Wayne Grudem believe in the current operativeness of charismatic gifts and rely disproportionately on experience for their argumentation, the cessationist has every right to ask these folks (as opposed to themselves) to go through church history and show the alleged continuity of the gifts they believe in.  If church history favors cessationism, the charismatic will have a hard time demonstrating this, as has already been proven by the number of alternative gift theories that have been advanced by charismatics in order to try and get around the church history issue.  But we need to be honest in our scholarship.  A church history argument is an experience argument and it does not serve the cessationist camp well to try and argue that it isn't, which Edgar unsuccessfully tries to do here.	2002-06-19
US	50142550	R2KXR2BZSCWBPU	0825422264	884882769	The Trinity	Books	5	13	15	N	N	One of THE Definitive Books on the Trinity	This book is about 100 years old now, but the many truths expressed in this book are truly timeless.  I found much of the material in this book to be just as relevant today as it has ever been, with almost none of the material being dated at all.  This is truly one of the preeminent books on the truth of Trinitarianism.<br />In this book, Bickersteth attempts to demonstrate the truth of the Trinity by showing the personhood and deity, as articulated in Scripture, of the Father, Son, and Holy Spirit.  In this book, Bickersteth brutally refutes various objections to Trinitarianism, mainly voiced by the Unitarians of his day.  In the end, the reader is left with a comprehensive sense that to deny Trinitarianism is to make a mockery of Scripture, since the Bible exhaustively demonstrates the truth of the Trinity.<br />Among many highlights in this book, the biggest is clearly Bickersteth's exhaustive Scripture examination and comparison.  In the chapters where he attempts to establish the coequal deity of the Son with the Father, Bickersteth analyzes and compares over 100 Scripture passages to show that the same phraseology that is used in Scripture to establish the divinity of the Father is also used to establish the divinity of the Son.  Bickersteth goes on to conduct a similar Scripture comparison in demonstrating the divinity of the Holy Spirit.  Bickersteth, in addition to establishing the divinity of the three persons of the Godhead, also effectively demonstrates that each Person is unique, personal, and in possession of an individual will, though the wills of all three are in perfect unison.  This effectively heads off the assertion that Father, Son, and Spirit are merely three manifestations of the same person, rather than &quot;three who's of one what&quot;.  Oneness pentecostalism is one of the many movements that argues in favor of the three manifestations concept, but this book effectively shows that in order to truly embrace this idea, one has to conduct major spiritual gymnastics in order to get away from what Scripture clearly teaches on this point.<br />The only area of this book that I thought could have been improved concerned the functional subordination aspect of Trinitarianism seen in Scripture.  Bickersteth does touch on this in a couple of places, but not exhaustively.  The coequality aspect of Trinitarianism is a difficult concept to understand in light of the offices each Person appears to hold.  But what should be clear from Bickersteth's book is that without regard to roles, each Person of the Godhead is equally divine and equally due our worship as a matter of ontology.<br />But with the exception of this one regret where I wish Bickersteth had been more thorough, this book is truly a classic on Trinitarianism that has stood the test of time, mainly because the truths it depicts are timeless and eternal.  This is a must read for anyone who wants to gain a better understanding of the truth of Trinitarianism and how to combat objections with massive amounts of Scriptural support.	2002-05-06
US	50142550	RXB4WN6IOQGH3	0801064120	661813815	Willing to Believe: The Controversy over Free Will	Books	5	15	16	N	N	Good Summary on Free Will Historical Thought	Sproul has put together a very even handed, well documented, heavily referenced book that deals with the church long debate over human free will.  Though personally from the Reformed camp, Sproul does not use this book as a vehicle for the advocacy of Reformed thought, but dispassionately examines the free will musings of various prominent thinkers throughout church history who represent a good variety of opinion.<br />Sproul takes the reader from Augustine to Chafer and looks at a number of folks in between such as Pelagius, Arminius, Luther, Calvin, Edwards, and Finney.  I felt that Sproul did a very good job of examining the views of each individual, and particularly in the cases of Finney and Chafer, showing that their views on free will didn't always reflect what they said their overall theology was.  Very insightful writing here.<br />One of the things I got out of the book was the obscure nature of a number of nuances that surround this issue and separate folks along theological lines.  I think readers who are not intimately familiar with these issues may find themselves a bit surprised by the often nuanced differences that have become such bitter points of contention between theological camps (monergistic versus synergistic soteriology is one example).  I thought that Sproul did a good job of examining these views in a detailed way in order to lay bare the theological differences that speak for themselves.  His extensive quotation of the above church thinkers on these issues allows the reader to see for him/herself what these thinkers wrote and thought.<br />Overall, I think this is a very informative book that serves to honestly treat the free will controversy in such a way that a layperson can better understand the controversy and be able to continue in their research with a solid basis of understanding.  This book is a quality addition to the Christian's library.	2002-04-29
US	50142550	R3IRJJSZ2EALVB	0310294010	981809450	Faith and Reason	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Introductory, Yet Meaty Book	Ron Nash wrote this wide ranging book back in the '80s, but much of its material is applicable and helpful for the reader today.  <br />I debated whether to give the book 4 stars or 5.  I opted for 5, but I think a certain kind of reader might not rank it that high.  I found that there were parts of the book, particularly the early parts dealing with noetic structures and worldview formulation, that tend to drag a bit.  But, for someone who is new to the field of apologetics and the intellectual side of the Christian faith, these chapters might well be very engaging.  Since it appears that Nash's target audience was at a more beginner-type level, I have no problem with his extensive early treatment of noetic structures since it lays a good foundation for the rest of the book.  That's why I did not demote my 5 star rating even though I found a fair amount of this specific material to be a bit dragging.  Someone else who has been around the block a few times with these issues might not give it a 5 star rating due to the amount of time Nash devotes to this area, but I think Nash's treatment is very good and would be quite helpful for the beginner.<br />I found the real highlight of the book to be Nash's treatment of miracles.  His critique of Hume's landmark work on the subject is outstanding, as is his examination of non-Hume objections to miracles.  Also, Nash's examination of the problem of evil is also quite good, but given his Reformed theological background, I was a bit confused by his often repeated emphasis on the preservation of human free will as a central issue in the problem of evil.  I happen to think this line of thinking has merit, but I'm unclear as to how it fits into a Reformed worldview.  Nonetheless, for Christians who don't have entrenched theological leanings on the free will issue and simply want to be able to respond to the problem of evil, Nash offers a lot of meat to chew on.<br />In summary, this is a wide ranging book that takes the reader from the infancy of noetic structure and worldview formation, to the more advanced issues that face theism such as cosmology, design, the problem of evil, and the problem of miracles.  And while I believe it is a very good and unintimidating resource for the beginner, I also think there's plenty of meat in this book for more advanced readers to make it worth reading.	2002-04-26
US	50142550	R26KHMDZEWGTY4	0801081610	407500872	Tulip: The Five Points of Calvinism in the Light of Scripture	Books	4	38	41	N	N	Good, if one sided, introduction	As can easily be deduced from the other reviews of this book, Duane Edward Spencer has charged headlong into a theological minefield with his effort here to succinctly outline the 5 points of Calvinism.  I found this book to be a solid introduction to explaining the 5 points, as well as providing the Scriptural support that is regularly called upon to defend the 5 points.  I am frankly startled that the negative reviews of this book are so seething, given that the purpose of this book is to explain the 5 points in summary fashion and citing what Spencer believes is Biblical support.  If that is the purpose of the book, and since the negative reviews of this book have little to do with critiquing whether Spencer adequately achieved this purpose, I'm not sure the negative reviews are a good reflection of whether the author achieves what he sets out to do here.  This book is a succinct introduction to the theology of Calvinism, and I think the author does a good job of presenting Calvinism in an honest light.  Whether someone personally agrees with Calvinism is a separate issue.  My review is based on whether Spencer does a good job or not of honestly presenting Calvinism to the reader.  I believe he does, and does it well.<br />This book is definitely a summary.  The book is less than 100 pages, and devotes between 10-15 pages to each of the 5 points.  These chapters, in a succinct and precise way, explain each point, the Biblical passages that Calvinists believe support each point, and there is also a discussion of the Arminian point that the Calvinist point is responding to.  Clearly, the reader should recognize that this book is not even close to exhaustive of the myriad of issues that separate Arminianism and Calvinism, and does not delve into many of the nuances that have been the source of ongoing debate and friction for centuries between the two camps.  But the book is not intended to do that.  What this book is trying to do is to give a reader who wants to gettheir feet wet on Calvinist theology a way to do so.<br />I gave the book 4 stars instead of 5 for a few reasons.  First, the negative reviewers of this book do make one valid point in saying that Arminianism, as presented in this book, is not given its full due.  The author rightly feels compelled to offer a summarized view of the 5 points of Arminianism since the 5 points of Calvinism were drafted as a direct response to the 5 points of Arminianism.  Therefore, it is appropriate and necessary that in order for the reader to get a deeper understanding of the origins of the 5 points of Calvinism, one must have some knowledge of what these 5 points were/are responding to, which would be the 5 points of Arminianism.  I found Spencer's summary of the 5 points of Arminianism to be too summary oriented, and not totally explaining the rationales and Scripture passages that Arminians tend to rely on to support their view.  So in that respect, the comparison between the 5 points of both camps is not as good as it could have been.<br />Secondly, as mentioned previously, this book, if read by an inquisitive reader, will likely leave that reader hanging a bit.  After reading about the 5 points of Calvinism, a reasonable reader may well be left with burning questions concerning the Calvinist view of human free will, the problem of evil, the role of missions in Calvinist thought, and whether Calvinism endorses a sort of fatalistic determinism.  All of these issues are huge, and none are explored in any great detail in this book.  And while I understand that it was not the author's intention to explore these issues since they are somewhat beyond the scope of a basic examination of the 5 points, the author should have done a better job of anticipating these kind of issues and referring the reader to other Calvinist resources that deal with these issues.  Spencer includes a very basic bibliography at the end, but I think it could have been beefed up considerably in such a way to offer relevant resource suggestions to readers who raise the above issues.<br />So in summary, this book gets into a redhot theological area, so it isn't surprising that emotions run high in many of the reviews of this book.  But as someone who is still wading through some of these concepts, I found this book to be helpful, succinct, and beneficial for anyone who wants to begin their theological journey without trying to digest a lengthy and nuanced treatise.  To be fair, the open minded reader who sincerely wants to arrive at a satisfactory conclusion on these issues should also pick up an introductory Arminian book and see the other side before coming to any definitive conclusions about these vital issues.	2002-04-25
US	50142550	R294HDTZIGINC5	0851518001	177238543	God and Cosmos: A Christian View of Time, Space, and the Universe	Books	4	20	23	N	N	Useful Introduction, questionable conclusion	John Byl has written an interesting book on cosmology here.  This is a book that I would consider to be introductory in nature, and I would recommend it for readers who are interested in cosmology but have not been extensively exposed to the topic.  Cosmology is an area of thought ripe with complex theories, abstractions, concepts, and assorted disciplines.  This is a book that does a good job of getting a person's feet wet in this area without being overwhelming.<br />As best I can tell, Byl is basically trying to arrive at two conclusions.  First, that scientific theorizing about the existence of the universe is not the same as scientific fact.  He attempts to argue that much of cosmology is based on unverifiable speculations that are based more on the philosophical and/or religious presuppositions of the cosmologist than on verifiable scientific fact.  Secondly, that much of both medieval and present age cosmology is problematic in terms of adequately explaining the origins of the universe or what the future of the universe may look like.  In many ways, I found this book to be an anti-cosmology book, which makes it unique relative to other works on the subject.<br />But when I say that the book struck me as being anti-cosmology, that doesn't mean that the book is anti-intellectual.  Byl spends a large amount of time in this book critiquing big bang cosmology and in the process, takes on the views of a number of heavy hitters both in theistic and non-theistic thought.  I thought he did a pretty good job of pointing out a number of problems in big bang cosmology which at the very least, cast doubt on the ability of current big bang cosmology to accurately and COMPLETELY explain the creation of the universe.  This is clearly a counter-cultural position to take in current cosmological circles, with prominent thinkers in both the theistic and non-theistic camps assuming the veracity of big bang cosmology in drawing wider conclusions.  In the process, Byl also critiques a number of cosmologies alternative to big bang cosmology, and then attempts to argue from a theistic perspective that the cosmological argument is problematic to conclusively prove the existence of God, much less the existence of the Christian God.  Lastly, he attempts to formulate what he believes is a Biblically supported cosmology that assumes the inerrancy of the Bible as the starting point for his cosmology, and further assuming that where the Bible and current scientific thought conflict, that the scientific thought rather than the Bible is in error.  <br />Relative to big bang cosmology, Byl draws the rather radical conclusion that current big bang cosmology is incompatible with Scripture, and thus, theistic thinkers who adopt big bang cosmology as part of arguing in favor of the existence of God are making a very big mistake.<br />It is here that I question Byl's conclusion.  First, I don't agree with Byl that the cosmological argument is not a good proof for the existence of God.  The universe exists as opposed to not existing.  As a result, it deserves to be explained.  Further, since the God of the Bible is clearly portrayed as a God who created all there is, it is both logical and reasonable to attempt to erect a sound cosmology that demonstrates the truth of the Bible by showing that the universe could only have been created by an omnipotent God like the One described in Scripture.  Unfortunately, when I read Byl's book, the conclusion I got was that all cosmologies that have been attempted to date are not only flawed, but equivalently flawed, and I think this does a disservice to some of the more sound cosmologies.  I think that some cosmological structures are more sound than others and hold promise of leading us to even better cosmological structures.  Secondly, Byl is clearly a young earth creationist, and while this is certainly okay, as even he says in the book, a person who does not believe in Biblical errancy will not subscribe to a young universe cosmology, presumably because of the alleged conflicts between science and Scripture.  Byl did nothing to attempt to reconcile these supposed conflicts, other than to dismiss such conflicts as cases of presuppositionally based scientific thought that leaves the realm of fact and enters the realm of theory and ideology.  While there is certainly truth to this claim, I don't think this claim in and of itself is a sufficient and compelling criticism.<br />So, the book is a good introduction that makes a number of very good points and conducts good critiques.  I consider it to be a solid introduction into the world of cosmology and would recommend it on that basis.  But I thought that Byl's conclusions were too pessimistic on the role of cosmology in theology and also did not properly distinguish between plausible cosmologies that are incomplete, versus other cosmologies that are based more on fantasy than plausibility.	2002-04-15
US	50142550	R1MWEL46NEDYR9	0310245656	924964975	What's So Amazing About Grace?	Books	4	54	61	N	N	Controversial, Thought Provoking Book	In this book, Philip Yancey writes candidly and passionately about the issue of grace.  He focuses on God's grace, and what a grace filled Christian life should look like.  In the process, he unapologetically points out examples of ungrace in the attitudes and behaviors of Christians, and talks about some of these people by name.  Clearly, this is a book that was written not in pursuit of winning a popularity contest, but to squarely challenge the church on a number of fronts.  For the most part, I think Yancey succeeds.<br />The strength of the book is clearly Yancey's treatment of both the grace of God and living a grace filled life.  Yancey recounts personal experiences that stretch across a wide array of circumstances and episodes to bring home the point that our culture is desperately in a mood to find grace, and that this represents an enormous opportunity for the church.  One of the key premises of the book is Yancey's belief that the Christian church is the only entity or system with the ability to offer grace to people, since God's grace, when Biblically practiced, turns many societal norms upside down.  Yancey is therefore imploring the church to return to a grace system that no other system outside the church can offer, so that the masses in search of grace will find it in the church, rather than not finding it at all.  I found this line of reasoning to be quite persuasive.<br />I gave the book 4 stars instead of 5 because I felt that Yancey lost control of his subject matter a bit when discussing the relationship between the church and the state.  Yancey feels very strongly that evangelicalism's preoccupation (as he sees it) with political issues like abortion and homosexuality have greatly tarnished the reputation of the church among those looking for forgiveness and grace, but not seeing much of it in evangelical circles due to their political activism in these areas.  I felt that Yancey was being both unbalanced and inconsistent in this area.  First of all, such an assertion makes the false assumption that everybody who has a problem with Christianity or Christians feels the way they do for legitimate reasons that can be traced back to the behavior of Christians, with no ulterior motives.  This is not universally true, and should not be assumed as such.  Secondly, there are times in this section when Yancey applauds (properly so, in my view) Christian activism in the areas of abolition, civil rights, medical care, and education.  But these affirmations come within a section of the book that is generally hostile to Christian activism in political matters.  Further, Yancey believes that evangelicalism seems more concerned with more trivial things than major things, and that this is a problem.  Maybe so, but as even he says in this book, no sin is trivial to God.  So the question Yancey creates for himself is who exactly is going to decide which things are trivial and which aren't?  By making this assertion, Yancey is bending dangerously close to appointing himself as the gatekeeper of the exact kind of rule making legalism he writes in such strong opposition to.  The bottom line, which Yancey is less than lucid about here, is that Christians have the right and the duty to take their faith beyond the church walls and allow God to use them to change the culture, which includes the political and social culture.  This, however, must be done Biblically, which means as Christians, we must conduct ourselves with dignity and love.  Yancey, unfortunately, spends about 5 chapters decrying the methods used by some Christians to impact the culture, without sufficiently making a balanced distinction between the Christian's duty to Biblically live out their faith in all spheres of life, versus the mistake of putting the political cause we champion above the spiritual Cause that motivates us, thus tainting our motives and techniques.  In his section on the political arena, Yancey greatly emphasizes the latter, but mostly ignoresthe former, thus generating a perspective that I found imbalanced. <br />But overall, I think this is a challenging book that hits on many good points and identifies several areas where the church is in need of improvement.  In that light, this book is a valuable resource.	2002-04-02
US	50142550	R218Q5M50H56XZ	0880708697	672266902	Desiring God: Meditations of a Christian Hedonist	Books	5	8	8	N	N	A Very Challenging Book	John Piper has put together a challenging, in-your-face, kind of book that methodically exorts Christians to embrace the joy of the Spirit-filled life.  Piper doesn't pull any punches when he repeatedly asserts that for a Christian, living a joyless life is dishonoring to God and is even a sin.<br />Piper puts a deep emphasis on Scriptural support for the assertions he makes in this book, and does a good job of countering reasonable objections that some might have to certain critical tenets in this book.  I thought that his chapter on the relationship between a Christian and his/her money was one of the real highlights of the book, as well as his discourse on suffering.  Piper also includes a few appendices which are relevant and worth reading in order to help complete the book.<br />This book really got me thinking about some things.  I felt that Piper made a compelling case that if we have a good appreciation of the majesty of God, joy and happiness that transcends individual circumstances is not only possible, but logical.  It results in genuine life change that permeates all we are.  <br />Piper even got me thinking about other areas that I don't necessarily agree with him about.  His position on the problem of evil in Chapter 1 is one I don't think I agree with.  But I'm happy his position is articulated in this book, because it has gotten me to think about this issue much more deeply, and that is to my benefit.<br />Overall, an outstanding book that presents an impassioned defense of the joyful Christian life.  A very good read.	2002-04-01
US	50142550	R2Z5Q65IDK3ZVU	0898707315	365999876	A Refutation of Moral Relativism: Interviews with an Absolutist	Books	3	17	21	N	N	A few gems amidst a lack of clarity	For me, this book is very tough to review.  It's approach is unique, and this tends to impact how the subject matter is addressed.  I think the uniqueness of its approach had great potential, but ultimately, I found that it was this unique approach that kept the book from getting over the hump.<br />The book represents a fictional dialogue between a moral absolutist and a moral relativist.  The book contains a series of fictional interviews where each side presents their own case, while attempting to refute the other's case.  If done right, this is a very vibrant and intriguing approach to dealing with a highly charged subject.  But in order to do this right, one must adequately and fairly represent the views of each side, in order to avoid strawmen and incompleteness.  And it is here where I thought the book did not totally succeed.<br />There are a few sections of the book that are super.  I felt that the best chapters, by far, were the ones where the fictional relativist makes her case for relativism, and then watching the fictional absolutist dismantle each positive assertion for relativism.  I felt that this section was very fair to the relativist view, and that the positive assertions offered for relativism are indeed commonplace assertions that accurately reflect the thinking of many relativists.  As indicated previously, the integrity of the book rests almost entirely on presenting an accurate and adequate picture of each side of the debate.  In this particular section, Kreeft succeeds and I felt that this section alone makes the book good enough to read.<br />However, I personally found much of the remaining material to be both mediocre, distracted, and confused, thus the 3 star rating I've given the book.  I found Kreeft's extended arguments for experience as a proof of absolutism to be weak and on shaky ground philosophically.  I think that it does make sense to appeal to 'experience' as an argument for moral absolutism, but this must be done very carefully.  I felt that Kreeft did not adequately sharpen his experience argument in such a way as to make it a concise proof for absolutism.  <br />In regards to the 'distracting' concept identified above, I felt there was simply too much needless banter from both sides of the fictional debate that served no useful end.  I'm aware that some readers may view the ad hominems from both sides as being entertaining, but I found it to be very distracting and disrupting to the flow of the book.  The ad hominems emanating from both sides could have served a useful purpose had these ad hominems themselves been refuted.  But many were not, and appeared to have been inserted into the fictional dialogue for entertainment value, rather than as legitimate points for debate and refutation.<br />Lastly, I felt the book was confused about what it was trying to do.  The dialogue at times delves into philosophical theory, both past and present, but also clearly delves into layman arguments as well.  As a result, I felt as if the book couldn't make up its mind as to whether the emphasis was going to be on debating philosophical concepts, or down to earth opinions of everyday people.  It tries to dabble in both, but I found the result to be an inadequate examination of both.  I think Kreeft should have clearly decided at the outset who he was trying to talk to here - a philosophically and logically oriented group, or a layman opinion-based group.  The issue of moral relativism is one where significant and lengthy treatises could be written to either audience.  But in this book, Kreeft writes a very short book that tries to reach both, and I think this confused the analysis and examination and shortchanged both sides.<br />In summary, a number of chapters were quite good.  But for the reasons outlined above, I thought that the book could have been much better, and thus represents only a partial success.	2002-03-09
US	50142550	R1EIREEH1SZY8D	0842315659	513593089	If There's a God, Why Are There Atheists?	Books	5	14	16	N	N	Very Compelling, despite inadequate book title	R.C. Sproul has written a powerful book that presents a multifaceted case for why people reject God.  This book initially came out in 1978, but in many ways, its analysis is still quite pertinent and compelling today.  This is a book that has stood the test of time.<br />Before commenting on the book's many positive qualities, I'd like to comment on why I noted a concern about the book title in my review title above.  A reasonable person, I think, would look at the title of the book and possibly conclude that the contents would represent a sweeping commentary on the existence of atheists, why God allows it, why God doesn't supposedly make Himself crystal clear, etc.  This book does not address these kind of issues.  After reading this book, I found the book's subtitle to be much more in line with what the book addresses, \\"The Surprising Look at the Psychology of Atheism\\".  Therefore, anyone wishing to read this book should understand that it's the subtitle, rather than the title, that really explains what the book will be addressing.<br />Having said all that, once it's made clear that this book is an attempt to focus almost exclusively on the psychology of atheism, I felt that Sproul did an outstanding job of doing this.  One of the main purposes of the book, first of all, is to refute the notion that Christians believe in a God of wishful thinking as a crutch-like mechanism, and then to show how atheism's rejection of the Christian God is based much more on wishful thinking and bias than the Christian's position.  Within this context, I felt that Sproul's multifaceted examination of the \\"God question\\" was simply outstanding.  Whether it's the equating of freedom with autonomy, to a fear of God's holiness, to an examination of the thoughts of prominent atheist psychologists and atheologians, Sproul mounts a formidable case against many of the fundamental benchmarks upon which atheism derives.  Sproul likewise offers outstanding exegesis of relevant Biblical passages that speak to the very issues that atheists have long opined about.  I found much of Sproul's analysis to be even handed and fresh, offering a very unique perspective on the ongoing debate over the existence of God and what motivates human beings either to accept or reject Christianity.<br />In addition to my critique of the title of the book, the one other mini-concern I had about the book was that Sproul could have done a better job in his conclusion of summing up the major arguments he made throughout the book.  This book had the potential to produce a very dramatic conclusion, but I found this to be lacking by what I thought was a conclusion that didn't do a good job of wrapping things up and tying the major tenets of the book together.  As a result, the reader will have to work harder than they probably should have to in order to draw a comprehensive summary from this book.<br />But in the end, I felt that the material and analysis was simply too good to demote the book below a 5 star rating.  His analysis is excellent, and while readers who have little interest in the inner workings of psychology scholarship may find parts of the book a bit dry, it is nonetheless a powerful resource that effectively shows the psychological origins of disbelief.  This is very helpful for the Christian.  Understanding the origins of disbelief in terms of psychology can have a very positive impact on our ability to better talk to atheists on their terms about what their objections are.  The disbelief of an atheist is not totally based on intellectual or philosophical objections, contrary to what many atheists assert.  In many cases, their disbelief ultimately boils down to emotional objections to the holiness of God, their need for a Savior, and the existence of moral absolutes that atheism has no basis for adequately explaining.  Knowing this up front will equip Christians to be more loving and understanding towards the atheist mindset, which should greatly help our ability towitness to them.	2002-03-09
US	50142550	R2H78JAS6GT3MD	1581342292	550248335	God's Lesser Glory: The Diminished God of Open Theism	Books	4	9	17	N	N	Mostly excellent refutation of Boydism	Bruce Ware has been one of the more prominent evangelicals leading the charge against open theism in evangelical circles.  He was one of the key speakers at the most recent meeting of the Evangelical Theological Society which ultimately voted better than 2 to 1 to reject open theism's proposal of a God of limited omniscience.  This book is Ware's written attempt to discredit the theology, philosophy, and claims of open theism.  For the most part, I think he succeeds.<br />For everything that is taken up in this book, Ware's analysis is devastating to open theism.  Ware effectively cuts through much of the sweet talk that's popular in open theism and methodically exposes the many negative ramifications of the openness view in terms of theology and daily Christian living.  Ware's critique is very good in taking somewhat complex theological and philosophical material and making it accessible to lay people without watering down the concepts.  He also does a good job of quoting extensively from a number of prominent open theism apologists, particularly Greg Boyd.  In my view, after reading this book, it would be highly difficult for someone to try and suggest that Ware was erecting a strawman and arguing against that, rather than fairly discrediting the actual premises of open theism as articulated by its leaders.  <br />I gave the book 4 stars instead of 5 because I thought that Ware's analysis, while outstanding in the areas that are covered, could have been more exhaustive.  To me, among the most problematic ramifications of open theism is the reality that open theism, by definition, must acknowledge at the very minimum the possibility of biblical errancy and fallibility.  In my view, one cannot consistently be an open theist as well as a believer in biblical inerrancy, since a great deal of the prophetic material written in the Bible requires the exact kind of divine foreknowledge of the future that open theists say God doesn't possess.  At the very least, open theism has to acknowledge that their view requires, for example, that the entire book of Revelation MIGHT prove to be wrong, since by their own view, the prophetic proclamations only represent God's best guesses of what might happen, rather than being part of a divine blueprint that's already in place.  In addition, the other major theological problem with open theism is that it requires a fundamental redefining of the substitutionary atonement of Christ's death on the cross.  If God doesn't know the future, that means that God could not know with absolute certainty that Christ's death would accomplish anything, since it is conceivable that nobody could have responded to it and believed.  This raises huge problems both about the character of God (what are we to think of a God who willingly allows His only Son to be brutally sacrificed if He didn't know for sure that anything good would come from it), as well as what Christ's death on the cross is supposed to represent.  <br />Ware has verbally expounded on these critical points in various speeches and lectures, but neither issue is discussed in this book.  Because I believe these issues represent monumental theological deficiencies in the openness view, a book worthy of 5 stars would have comprehensively explored these issues.  Because Ware does not, I am compelled to give the book 4 stars instead because of its non-comprehensive critique.<br />But having said that, I strongly stress that what Ware DOES cover in this book is outstanding and represents a very able and formidable refutation of open theism and its implications on the faith overall, as well as individual believers.  He effectively shows that open theism is purely a human concoction that requires repeated caveats in order to cover up its rather obvious shortcomings - caveats which are actually in contradiction with the stated principles of open theism.  Similar to Geisler's refutation of 'neotheism' in another book, Ware effectively shows not only that open theism is an internally inconsistent mess as a matter of scholarship, but also that open theism cannot deliver on many of the rosy promises it makes to undiscerning Christians who are intrigued by this redefinition of God.  Ever since this book came out, Boyd and company have been playing defense, and it is clear why this is.	2002-03-04
US	50142550	R29T684Z8KUYQY	0891077642	352388591	Reasonable Faith: Christian Truth and Apologetics	Books	5	109	124	N	N	Strong, Methodical Apologetic	William Lane Craig is well known inside scholarly circles.  Christian scholars regard him as one of the elite.  And atheist scholars, along with prominent atheist websites, feel compelled to pay a great deal of attention to the writings and debates of Craig, in my view, because he has demonstrated himself to be one of the sharpest pins to regularly burst the atheism balloon.  There is no serious debate about Craig's scholarly credentials and abilities, and Reasonable Faith makes that abundantly clear.<br />Reasonable Faith is a methodical, meticulous, sometimes impassioned defense of the existence of the Biblically based Christian God.  In this book, Craig not only challenges the views of various atheist scholars (whether they reside in science, mathematical or history disciplines) but also challenges the views of deism and 'liberal Christianity'.  I felt that the book represented a very logical and easy follow stairway from the issues of faith and reason, to the inescapable reasonableness of the resurrection of Jesus.  In between, Craig conducts a quality appraisal of the Godless worldview and where it leads, and an outstanding analysis on the existence of God where he takes on the views of Hawking and others.  Craig Blomberg contributes a very good chapter on the reliability of the New Testament, with Craig concluding with a good chapter on the self understanding of Christ and a masterful chapter on the resurrection.  Each chapter provides a very compelling chronology of how the debates revolving around these topics have evolved over time, giving the reader a good sense of how thinkers on multiple sides of the issues have formed their various positions.  Craig then does an assessment of this chronology in each chapter.  I found this approach to be very strong and persuasive.<br />Craig also does a good job referencing his book, and offers a very good bibliography of other readings that go into further detail on the issues that Craig examines here.  When reading this book, the reader may very well want to conduct further investigation and research into a number of areas that Craig touches on, and the bibliography in this book allows the interested reader to do so easily.<br />The problem of miracles was the one area where Craig could have been a little stronger, in my view.  This area is not weak by any stretch, but could have stood for further exploration and examination, in my opinion.<br />Overall, this is an outstanding book.  Craig wrote this book on a more popularized level to make it more amenable to laypeople, but potential readers should not be lead to believe that this is an easy or fluffy read.  While written at a more popularized level than much of Craig's high scholarly material, this is still a book that deals with complex issues in a meaty way, and requires the reader to carefully think things through.  After reading this book, I hope that even those who remain unconvinced about their need for the Christian God will at least acknowledge that Craig clearly demonstrates that the historical Christian religion can be effectively and articulately defended against the highest level of opposing arguments thrown against it.  Christianity is a religion that more than stands on its own intellectually, and Craig shows, in my view, that its competitors in the world of scholarship have long since been lapped.  An excellent resource!	2002-02-25
US	50142550	R9QDEQDQGZUQ0	0310236622	980328729	God's Grace from Ground Zero: Seeking God's Heart for the Future of Our World	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Adequately achieves what it sets out to do	Jim Cymbala draws from personal stories from the Brooklyn Tabernacle, along with a number of his own life experiences, in seeking to demonstrate God's grace in the midst of 9/11.  While this book is far from a comprehensive Christian response to the events of 9/11, it mostly succeeds in painting an inspirational portrait of God and how He has been working throughout New York City and the nation, and also within the halls of Brooklyn Tabernacle in the wake of the tragedy.<br />Various portions of this book read like a powerful sermon, which makes sense given that Cymbala is a pastor.  In particular, his discourse on persevering in Christ today by drawing upon various Biblical examples such as the life of Paul or the Hebrew enslavement in Egypt are especially moving and inspiring.  Cymbala also takes a bold stance against what he calls 'make believe prophets' who tried to affix earthly and mostly ideologically based reasons and/or judgments to the attacks.<br />The book is not quite as good as it could have been for at least one reason.  Cymbala could (and should) have gone farther in providing tangible reasons for folks to trust God even in the midst of tragedies that are not entirely understandable.  He does touch on this, and attempts to demonstrate God's faithfulness in working through great tragedy by pointing to a couple of specific things in history, but this section could have been elaborated on in much greater length to show the reader that God has turned tragedy into victory over and over again, and that this gives us very reasonable and tangible reasons to trust God to do the same thing now.  Instead, Cymbala deemphasizes this and stresses more of a 'trust God because we know God is good' approach without really supporting this assertion adequately for those who may not consider this view to be a given.  <br />But with this exception, I think this book is good for conveying a sense of God's grace, how we need to be responding to it, how others have alreadyresponded to it, and how we can continue to have joy and hope even in the midst of great sorrow and tragedy by focusing on an eternal perspective.  This book is short and not very deep, but there are many good truths that are conveyed in it, along with powerful personal stories that are very authentic, and that makes it worth reading.	2002-02-21
US	50142550	R5MJCUMN3WKOO	0849943671	973660017	Terrorism, Jihad, and the Bible	Books	3	22	32	N	N	Not One of His Better Efforts	To his credit, John MacArthur is a man who often speaks boldly and is willing to challenge conventional thought and say things that may not be popular or easy to hear, while effectively arguing his point and backing up what he says.  Unfortunately, in this book, he only partially succeeds in doing this.<br />The stated purpose of this book is to provide answers to why God allowed the 9/11 tragedies to occur, why Islam is hostile towards the West generally and Israel and the US specifically, and can we possess any hope going forward given what's happened.  The book has some strengths and I think it hits on a few important themes, but in the end, I felt that this book, like much of the Christian response to 9/11, was half baked and missed the mark.  <br />The one sustained strength of the book was MacArthur's analysis of the history of Islam.  He examines Biblical geneologies, along with a brief summary of the life and attitudes of Mohammed, coupled with an analysis of Islam's spread to the present day.  The reader should be warned that this analysis is at a very top level.  MacArthur further expounds on Quranic teachings relative to waging a holy war, or jihad.  MacArthur's contention is that the Quran is very clear that jihad is acceptable and even admirable, and that Islam actually teaches that the only way a Muslim has a guarantee of going to heaven is by dying while fighting a holy war - and that this heaven is a highly sexualized experience.  MacArthur contends that this is one of the main reasons why so many young Muslim men seem willing to die in this way, since MacArthur's contention is that Islam provides no guarantees about the believers eternal state if they die any other way.<br />The other modest strength of the book is in MacArthur's examination of the response of the world, and Americans in particular, to the tragedy.  He makes a very good point that the total number of people who died in the tragedies were actually less than the average number of deaths in the US on any given day.  MacArthur makes a compelling point that Americans have gotten very good at ignoring or minimizing death when it gradually occurs one person at a time.  It's only when many folks die suddenly and simultaneously that many of us take the time to think about our own mortality.  MacArthur would have been wise to expand on this point, as it would have been very relevant to what he was trying to address in the book.<br />While the above strengths are sufficient enough for me to grant the book 3 stars, I frankly expected more from MacArthur, and was a bit confused about his target audience.  The book is very short and summary oriented, which leads me to believe that this was an attempt at a purely evangelistic tool, almost like an expanded tract.  But if that was his intention, he should have included a list of suggested resources which would complement his book, since this short summarized treatise left many areas where the inquisitive reader would have additional questions or concerns.  Similarly, some of his language was unnecessary and would likely turn off someone who is being witnessed to (intimating that Satan was behind the creation of Islam does nothing to further loving outreach to seekers, and does lots to turn them off - nor is it even vital to the premise of his book, it was unnecessarily inflammatory).  Such language might be okay if the book was intended for mature Christians, but if this was his target audience, it is likewise a book that does not get the job done in terms of extensively critiquing Islam and how it differs from Christianity and how Christianity is better equipped to explain the 9/11 tragedy.<br />At the end of the day, I just didn't think that there was a lot of \\"there, there\\" with this book.  It struck me as a book that was put together rapidly in order to get into people's hands while the wound was still fresh, and like much of the Christian church's response to 9/11, comes across as a bit stale and as an evangelistic rush job.  With 'religious activity' levels today returning to their pre attack levels according to various polls, it is becoming increasingly clear that the church's response to the tragedy was insufficient.  I would argue that a great deal of the reason is because the church was not thoroughly addressing the questions and issues that people were raising in the aftermath of 9/11.  The church was providing too many canned answers for a wide audience that had been heard before, rather than presenting a meticulous apologetic for the truth and viability of the Christian faith as not only our best hope for humanity, but also as the best explanation for what happened on 9/11 and why.  Unfortunately, this book by MacArthur struck me as being a good example of the former, rather than the latter.	2002-02-18
US	50142550	R18YQO9VKNCXT2	1893554155	171289962	Christianity On Trial: Arguments Against Anti-Religious Bigotry	Books	4	110	113	N	N	Good work, but susceptible to criticism	Carroll and Shiflett have done a good job of trying to set the record straight in this book about Christianity, Christians, and the impact of both on human history.  It was very refreshing to read a book that goes beyond superficial caricatures to really explore the history honestly.  I think the authors mostly succeed in balancing the scales a bit and demonstrate a proud history of the faith that is based on many facts that have long since been forgotten by much of society.<br />The authors devote one chapter to each specific issue that is analyzed.  One of the major strengths of the book is the authors insistence on devoting the first part of each chapter to present the view of the anti Christian forces, whether they be in the media, academia, or cause advocacy.  The summation of the anti Christian view is especially illuminating and piques the interest of the reader to hear what the authors have to say about such strongly held views.  In my view, the authors succeed pretty well in taking the criticisms on in a succinct and factually based way.  Where appropriate, they acknowledge the shortcomings of the church and do not attempt to rationalize these shortcomings away.  They lay them out there for the reader to digest.  But the authors also introduce a tremendous amount of supplemental evidence that goes a long way toward factually deconstructing many of the more popular negative one liners that people trod out to discredit Christianity.<br />After reading this book, I think a number of people, if they are open minded and willing to be challenged where their preconceived notions are concerned, may find themselves modifying or even completely rethinking some of the reflex opinions they have held to in regards to Christians and Christianity.  When reading this book, I found myself amazed by how completely it seems some people are looking to find a way to blame Christianity for any injustice or ill that troubles them.  What I found by reading this book is that in ourmodern day emphasis on surface level scholarship, Christianity fares much better than the efforts of its critics to discredit it.<br />Having said all this, I feel the need to comment on what I perceived to be one significant weakness of the book that compels me to give the book a 4 star rating.  In all frankness, the authors were very sloppy in their referencing approach, and in a book like this, this is a huge problem.  In every chapter of the book, there are quotes the authors use to try and advance their points which are not referenced back to any source material.  This serious oversight leaves the book very susceptible to criticism from those who don't like what they read in here.  In particular, the chapter that discusses the relationship between Christianity and the Third Reich contains a number of quotes that Hitler allegedly made which were hostile to Christianity that are not referenced to any source material at all.  This is a serious problem because someone reading this book could easily dismiss the authors entire line of argumentation by saying that because these quotes aren't referenced back to any source material, there's no way to verify their accuracy, and maybe the authors made them up completely.  I'm not suggesting that this is what the authors did, but by not doing a better job in their referencing, they unnecessarily leave themselves open to charges like this and provide opponents of their book with an easy way to dismiss much of the content.  This is particularly inexcusable in a book like this which attempts to take on and refute societal views, since the authors had to know that their book would strike at some sacred cows.  As such, it is even more critical to write a book that is airtight in terms of its facts in order to really challenge people to rethink their views in light of factual evidence that they themselves can personally verify if they choose.  But because the authors did not thoroughly reference their material, the book comes up short in this area to a degree that causes me to lower the rating from 5 stars to 4.<br />But while the book is clearly deficient in its source material referencing, it is sufficient enough in this area that both sincere believers and open minded skeptics can read this book and validate enough of the facts presented to make it an effective tool for setting the record straight.  It's not perfect, but it's good.	2002-01-15
US	50142550	R1KN15SRY1CDKC	0830822283	601625971	Truth Decay: Defending Christianity Against the Challenges of Postmodernism	Books	5	43	53	N	N	For the Most Part, Excellent	Groothuis has done a good job in this book of profiling postmodernism and discrediting it in light of its devastating theories on truth and living.  In the process, he does a good job of affirming the reality of universal truth and showing how Christianity's worldview best honors absolute truth in comparison to other worldviews, most notably postmodernism.<br />This book is an attempt to touch on various aspects of the postmodernist issue.  Groothuis spends a good deal of time deconstructing the postmodernist objection to universal truth and its embrace of 'cultural truths', along with the worldview's inability to provide any basis for the many presuppositions it makes.  He also analyzes the massive internal inconsistencies prevalent throughout postmodern thought and eloquently demonstrates that many adherents to postmodernism tend to be first in line to fail the litmus tests of their own worldview.  He also analyzes the issue of whether language can express truths beyond itself, which is a common assertion among prominent postmodernists.  Groothuis also spends a chapter looking at the dangerous apologetics that some prominent Christians have developed which resemble postmodernist thinking.  In many of these areas, Groothuis's analysis is thorough and excellent, with an emphasis on heavy quotation from those he is critiquing.<br />Although somewhat minor, I must also say that I thought the cover of the paperback was outstanding.  The cover depicts a barren landscape, almost a wasteland.  This illustration is very applicable to the postmodern worldview.  After reading this book, I think quite a few readers will rightly conclude that postmodernism is an extremely depressing and hopeless way of thinking about the world and its inhabitants.  In many ways, the impression I got from Groothuis's book is that postmodernism is really on a quest to devalue almost everything under the guise that we don't really know anything.  Groothuis's quote from Dorothy Sayers about halfway through the book is one of the best quotes I've ever heard about the futility of the postmodernist outlook on life and truth.  Utterly devastating.<br />I debated whether to give the book 4 or 5 stars.  I opted for 5, but I will note a couple of regrets I have about the book that do not diminish the overall rating but are regrets nonetheless.  First, Groothuis's analysis of postmodernism appears pretty confined to the atheistic/agnostic wing of postmodernism.  And while I certainly appreciated his appraisal in this area, I think Groothuis would have really hit a homerun if he had also taken some time to analyze the spiritual postmodernism that is rampant as well.  In many ways, the spirituality aspect of postmodernism is more important than the non-spiritual aspect.  New Age spirituality draws heavily from postmodernism and this phenomenon is more prevalent than atheistic postmodernism, at least in America.  But this is an area that Groothuis does not explore.  Lastly, Groothuis's defense of egalitarianism against the charge of postmodernism is highly subjective in a way that the rest of the book is not.  Groothuis and his wife are well known advocates of egalitarianism, and this advocacy is clearly prominent in this section.  This would have been okay had Groothuis's analysis of this issue been as honest as the rest of the book.  But whereas Groothuis quotes extensively from postmodernists throughout the rest of the book, he does not quote at all from the traditionalist school within Christianity while trying to advance the school of egalitarianism.  Ultimately, Groothuis does not present a fair depiction of the traditionalist school of thought (he goes so far as to summarize that traditionalism, in his opinion, is based on prejudices that are outdated, which is ad hominem and inaccurate), and this is regretable since such an approach tends to resemble postmodernism in its superficiality.<br />But given that these two points are minor enough that the book still stands on its own as a solid critique of postmodernism, I give the book 5 stars and recommend it to anyone who is struggling with the meaning of truth, whether truth can be authoritative and universal, and what this means to daily living.	2001-12-21
US	50142550	R5FVR3KM06ITM	0310394910	20919602	The Gospel According to Jesus: What Does Jesus Mean When He Says Follow Me?	Books	5	218	231	N	N	A Vital Work, especially for the megachurch movement	In my opinion, John MacArthur has hit a homerun with this book.  If it were up to me, this book would be required reading for every pastor in America, but particularly pastors of megachurches, since an increasing number of megachurches are slipping into the easy believism that MacArthur successfully refutes here.<br />In a nutshell, MacArthur attempts to take on the concept that people can make allegedly sincere professions of faith in Christ and then be considered a Christian with certain eternal security even if their life bears no good fruit after their supposed conversion.  This is an important question, both from a theological standpoint as well as from a Christian living perspective.  An increasing number of churches, particularly a number of megachurches, have appeared to shy away from topics that remind people of the reality of sin, the need for repentance and forgiveness, and the important desire of being obedient to God and His Word because such sentiments are increasingly unpopular within the realm of comfortable Christianity.  MacArthur argues that good works are not a precondition of salvation, thus affirming the historic Protestant position of salvation by faith alone in Jesus Christ and relying on His grace.  But having affirmed this position, MacArthur then goes into fabulous Biblical detail concerning the FRUITS by which genuine salvation can be measured.  Critics of MacArthur's book have argued that MacArthur is preaching a works based salvation, but I think it's clear that MacArthur is not doing that.  What he is saying is exactly what the Bible says, and what the historic Christian church has long affirmed - that salvation is by faith alone in Jesus Christ, and that genuine faith in Christ will produce good works via the influence of the Holy Spirit that is indicative of genuine salvation and the genuinely changed life that the Bible repeatedly speaks of for people who are truly converted.  If critics want to call this a works based salvation, Ibelieve this to be a serious oversight of the clear distinctions MacArthur makes between salvation by faith, versus the logical and Biblically outlined fruits of genuine salvation.  <br />MacArthur further demonstrates that those who affirm easy believism and decry this as a works based salvation stand on extremely problematic ground relative to their own position on salvation.  MacArthur points out that it is highly dubious to offer an easy believism salvation that basically states that as long as we make some kind of supposedly sincere affirmation of Jesus, we can then claim we are saved while continuing to live an unsaved life and not worry about whether our salvation is certain or not.  This is an extraordinarily cheap form of salvation as a matter of Christian living.  And I also believe it is catastrophic as a matter of theology.  If all are agreed that the Holy Spirit enters a person's life upon faith in Christ, and all are agreed that the Holy Spirit is fully divine, how do the proponents of easy believism reconcile the notion that someone who is supposedly right with God and who has the Holy Spirit in them can continue to live an apostate life?  What does that say about the omnipotence of the Holy Spirit if the Spirit can enter someone, but not change them?  It seems to me that to believe in the concept of the 'carnal Christian' who never repents, never seeks forgiveness, never acknowledges sin, and never seeks to be obedient to God - all the while claiming that the Holy Spirit is in this person, almost automatically forces an argument for the impotence of the Holy Spirit as a matter of theology.  Not only does this not make sense and cheapens both the Christian life and the Christian God, it results in a different gospel.<br />In conclusion, I believe that MacArthur has written an important book that is well documented Biblically.  The Bible does not teach the concept of apostate Christians, it does not teach easy believism.  It does teach that salvation is by faith, and that when a person makes a truly sincere profession of faith in Christ, the Holy Spirit will enter that person, and change that person over time by conforming him/her to the image of God.  It does not teach that someone can make a profession in Christ at some point, and then God leaves that person alone to continue living a life that doesn't look any different from the life they lived prior to professing Christ.  Nowhere does the Bible say that.  So I am very happy to see MacArthur meticulously deconstruct the tenets of easy believism in favor of what both Jesus and the apostles repeatedly affirmed throughout the New Testament about the nature of salvation and living the Christian life.	2001-12-10
US	50142550	RUBEIEANJWPC0	1556615752	873498057	The King James Only Controversy: Can You Trust the Modern Translations?	Books	5	10	15	N	N	Thoroughly Refutes a Destructive Form of Legalism	James White has written a meticulous and far reaching book that successfully exposes King James Onlyism for what it is - destructive legalism that is based almost entirely on hysteria.<br />White's book does an outstanding job of treating a number of complex areas that are pertinent to the subject at hand:  ancient manuscripts, scribal influences, textual and translational variants, church history relative to Scripture translations, as well as a thorough and level handed examination of the King James Only position.  I was very happy to see White compare the current King James Onlyism to the response Erasmus and company received 400 years ago when they embarked on a fresh translation that eventually made up a fair amount of the TR which King James Onlyism today considers sacred.  White's treatment of this area compellingly demonstrated that there's nothing new under the sun, and that the translation 'reformers' of 400 years ago have become the traditionalists of today, thus repeating a trend in Scripture translation that goes back to the dawning of the early church.<br />White's analysis of the hysterics of Riplinger and Ruckman eloquently demonstrate that the loudest voices within King James Onlyism provide a rather easy target for level headed refutation.  Both Riplinger and Ruckman have very little in the way of sound scholarship to bolster their view, thus, rampant emotionalism and illogic tends to drive their advocacy.  If churches across America weren't being divided with believers being pitted against each other, the rantings of Riplinger and Ruckman wouldn't deserve much attention.  But because of the destructive wake these folks are carving out within American Christianity, White's excellent and painfully thorough refutation is needed in order to put these damaging tactics and views in their place.<br />I only have two minor complaints about this book, but both are so minor that they do not downgrade the 5 star rating I've given the book.  First, I think thebook could have benefited from a visual presentation relative to showing how the TR came into existence and its influence upon the 1611 KJV.  White explains this verbally, but a visual chart would have been very helpful to more effectively explain the timeline and various documents/translations that ultimately influenced the development of the TR.  Secondly, I think White could have been a bit more thorough in his discussion of manuscript variants to better drive home the point that almost all variants are minor and explainable in order to clearly state at the outset that variants among manuscripts do not reflect on the inerrancy of Scripture.  He does touch on this, but considering that a major part of his book involves analyzing manuscript variants and scribal errors in those manuscripts, a more forceful discussion on Scriptural inerrancy would have been very appropriate.<br />But overall, this is an outstanding and balanced refutation of King James Onlyism, as well as being a very good resource relative to understanding why we have so many Bible translations today, while at the same time being confident that some of our current translations are perhaps the most faithful to what the apostles actually wrote in the years following Christ's resurrection.  So I would recommend this book not only to those who are looking for a level headed refutation of King James Onlyism, but also to those who have always wondered about the art of Biblical translation and why we have so many Biblical translations available today.  A very good resource.	2001-11-16
US	50142550	R1ID4L97B6H57A	0310211395	439197302	Jesus Under Fire: Modern Scholarship Reinvents the Historical Jesus	Books	5	55	72	N	N	Hits the Jesus Seminar Where it Hurts	This book is a composition of short essays written by a number of prominent Christian apologists which focus on specific and fundamental questions about the Christian faith.  Each of the chapters offers solid defenses of orthodox Christianity as well as highlighting where folks like the Jesus Seminar are in opposition to Christian orthodoxy and the many philosophical and scholarly flaws that undermine their case.<br />While each of the chapters offered compelling reasons in support of Christianity while rejecting the 'scholarship' of the Jesus Seminar, I felt that two chapters were quite outstanding.  Habermas's chapter on miracles and Craig's chapter on the resurrection both did the best job of deconstructing the Jesus Seminar, in part, by demonstrating the reasonableness of orthodoxy.  Habermas did a good job of demonstrating that the Jesus Seminar, far from being a group of people offering fresh scholarship because they are not bound by Christian tradition, are clearly bound tightly to a naturalistic worldview that slants their entire approach to their study of Jesus.  These guys are not neutral and impartial scholars.  As both Habermas and Evans effectively demonstrate, the Jesus Seminar is often in the intellectually dubious position of trying to meld two worldviews that are hostile to each other - Christianity and naturalism.  The result, as the entire book effectively shows, is a highly subjective effort on the part of the Jesus Seminar to naturalize Christianity and to christianize naturalism.  Since this can't be done objectively or evidentially, the Jesus Seminar tries to do it subjectively.  And while this has certainly resulted in the Seminar getting lots of attention, it also makes books like Jesus Under Fire easy to write, because the Seminar's scholarship methods are frighteningly easy to refute.<br />William Lane Craig's chapter does a very good job of refuting the Seminar on the question of the resurrection.  Craig's main emphasis is on demonstrating the massive falsity of John Dominic Crossan's musings on the resurrection.  Craig's chapter in this book, coupled with Craig's formal debate with Crossan some years ago, provides defenders of orthodox Christianity with a multitude of reasons to be confident in the intellectual soundness of Christianity while also being confident that opponents of orthodox Christianity are in a very bad way if Crossan's views represent the best they can do.<br />In conclusion, this is a book that puts the Seminar squarely in its place as a group of rogue people who's scholarship and improbable theories are better suited for daytime television than in the halls of academia.  I was very impressed with the concise nature of each chapter, and how each chapter is heavily referenced.  Lastly, I was also very happy to see a somewhat lengthy list of suggested readings on various Christian topics that complement this book.  <br />When it comes to religious books, topics discussed tend to be pretty fluid, and there is no shortage of rebuttals and rebuttals to rebuttals among scholars of differing views.  But every once in a while, a book comes along that really cripples the opposition, and this can be seen by the muted response the opposition offers to the book.  Mere Christianity by CS Lewis is one of those books, The Gospel and the Greeks by Ron Nash is another.  Jesus Under Fire is a book that comes close to falling into this category.  This book has been out on the market for nearly 7 years now, and the response to this book from prominent folks on the other side of the equation has been sparse at best.  And what little response there has been has often been guilty of the same philosophical and scholarly presuppositions employed by the Jesus Seminar that were so thoroughly refuted in this book.  It is therefore with great confidence that I recommend this book as a quality starting point for exploring the rationality of traditional Christianity, and then applying the same tests of logic,philosophy, and intellectually honest scholarship to the views and methods employed by the Jesus Seminar and its sympathizers.	2001-11-12
US	50142550	R29S42AIGYX40O	0849916275	587745235	Ten Lies About God And How You Might Already Be Deceived	Books	3	28	32	N	N	Lots of potential, but ultimately mediocre	Lutzer chose a very good title and a very good premise for writing this book.  And while there were parts of the book that were quite good, he ultimately tried to bite off more than he could chew with this book in my view.<br />Lutzer's premise for the book is that there are ten 'lies' about God that he intends to analyze and refute.  These lies are indeed attention grabbing and successfully generate interest in the reader to read what Lutzer has to say.  Unfortunately in my view, in order to really do justice to many of these 'lies', much more than a chapter of examination is desperately in order.  Whole books could be written on many of the lies that Lutzer attempts to contain within 20 page chapters, and the result is a book that doesn't dig nearly deep enough to do justice to the very compelling lies and subsequent questions that are asked in this book.  <br />Each of the lies are the starting points for the chapters in the book.  I think Lutzer did a good job of identifying many popularly held views about God.  The lies in this book are quite pervasive throughout the culture and it is good that Lutzer attempted to discredit them.  But all too often, I found that the chapters started out better than they ended, with Lutzer doing a good job of setting the table, but falling short in the quality of the meal.  In particular, Lutzer repeatedly reinforced what I guess is a deeply held belief of his that I don't agree with, and it is this belief that often hurts the quality of his analysis, in my view.  In my view, he too often takes the easy way out on tough questions related to purpose, suffering, creation, and omnipotence by essentially saying that good answers aren't available to these kind of questions.  Lutzer makes what I believe to be a cardinal mistake in today's church by appealing not to a faith bolstered by intellectual sensibility and emotional satisfaction, but to a faith that at its core, is anti intellectual.  As such, at several key points in his bookwhere a solid, Biblically based intellectual and philosophical examination would not only be appropriate but very compelling as both an intellectual and emotional proposition, Lutzer punts by essentially saying 'I don't know' way too often.  And this is the fundamental failure of the book.  I guess I'm not sure why Lutzer felt it necessary to write a book about a number of compelling topics if he didn't have more meat to offer.<br />The ten 'lies' about God that Lutzer profiles are good and relevant topics for discussion.  But unfortunately in my view, like most of the book, his ending points are not nearly as compelling as his starting points, where the reader is left with an appreciation of the immensity of God and how much we don't know, but no appreciation for how much God has revealed to us about Himself and how much we do know.  And in my view, by falling short in his analysis of the ten lies in this way, he inadvertently goes a long way toward contributing to another lie about God - God is unknowable.  <br />So in conclusion, I would recommend this book to anyone who is struggling with appreciating the immensity of God.  But for those who might pick up this book looking for tangible answers about the nature of God, His purposes, the reasons why things happen the way they do, I would suggest that they not base their whole analysis of these difficult issues to this book, and would commend them to additional research and examination of other books which more adequately address these areas.  Because in my view, Lutzer simply doesn't do justice to many of these issues here.  Readers who pick up this book to gain emotional solace or satisfaction on some of these issues may or may not find enough meat in here, but readers who turn to this book for intellectual sustenance on these issues will encounter too many chapters where the author at least flirts with anti intellectualism, and presents a God who too often doesn't reveal Himself or His purposes at all.  And asa matter of both theology and emotional experience, I fundamentally take issue with this sentiment and believe it to be wholly inadequate to the God of the Bible and how He has revealed His purposes and holiness not only in Scripture but in the annals of human history in ways we can know and gain comfort and hope from.	2001-10-08
US	50142550	R1HIYA0XQ7T47F	1556619359	512758909	Creating God in the Image of Man?	Books	4	4	6	N	N	Good Resource	This is a good resource for proponents of classical theism to better understand the specific areas where neotheism has retreated from classical theism to align itself more with panentheism, which among other things, professes to believe in a god that is essentially a work in progress. I thought that Geisler did a good job of describing the major tenets of both classical theism and panentheism, and then describing how neotheism attempts to find middle ground between the two.<br />There are a number of positives about this book. There a couple of charts in the book which are very helpful in comparing the three views discussed in summary form. This gives the reader a very good visual idea of how the three views compare with each other on key points. I thought Geisler also did a good job of demonstrating the incoherence of neotheism as a result of trying to blend various aspects of both classical theism and panentheism together to form a distinct worldview. As Geisler effectively demonstrates, neotheism is in the intellectually dubious position of embracing tenets of both classical theism and panentheism which not only contradict each other, but many of the tenets that they embrace logically require embracing other tenets which they reject. Because of its intellectual incoherency, neotheism becomes a worldview which essentially says that nobody knows anything for sure, including the neotheist version of God. Not exactly a strong foundation to adopt a worldview that we can be confident about. I also thought Geisler's refutation of various Biblical arguments raised by neotheism were adequate in demonstrating the falsity of neotheism, in addition to showing that neotheism's proposal of a God of limited omniscience almost automatically forces an argument for the fallibility of the Bible. Given that this is the logical result of neotheism's proposal about God, it is intellectually dishonest to then try to support their position through Scripture passages, since their own worldview greatly diminishes the divine authority of the very Book they are using to try and support their position. This is one example of the intellectual quagmire that neotheism creates for itself. I thought Geisler handled all this pretty well, in part by affirming the infallibility of Scripture with a few solid evidences that squarely refute neotheism, while referencing other works that go into more exhaustive analysis on the infallibility of the Bible.<br />I did not give the book 5 stars for a couple of reasons. First, there is a lot of repetition in this book that was not needed. There were a number of instances where Geisler seemed to analyze the same problem multiple times, providing the same answer each time. I also thought that some of the analysis was too summary level and could have stood for more depth, particularly in the area of analyzing the practical consequences of the neotheist view.<br />But overall, this book provides a solid defense for the intellectual credibility of classical theism and the infallibility of the Bible, while casting significant doubt upon the intellectual and practical credibility of both panentheism and neotheism as a result of their insistence to make God look more like fallible, finite and imperfect humans than the perfect, eternal and holy God of the Bible which actually deserves our worship. This is a needed book that I would recommend for all defenders of classical theism as well as for open minded disciples of process theology or the open view theology. In my mind, neotheism is a very logical consequence of the Christian church not doing a good job discipling and equipping their people on the fundamentals of the faith and why they make sense. And since the Church is not showing many signs of actively reversing this trend, it is my opinion this book becomes all the more critical since neotheism is likely to increase absent a concerted effort on the part of the Church to refute it the way Geisler does here.	2001-09-10
US	50142550	R18D2VQHJL7H8G	1556617259	696594328	The Forgotten Trinity	Books	5	9	12	N	N	An Excellent Book	James White has written a thoughtful, Biblically based book on the doctrine of the Trinity that effectively walks the difficult line between being too scholarly that most folks won't understand what is being said, versus being so popularized that there isn't much meat in the analysis. As White correctly points out in this book, the doctrine of the Trinity is fundamental to the Christian faith, but it is a doctrine that is both misunderstood and misrepresented by many both inside and outside the church. This book provides an excellent basis to understand and defend what the Bible teaches about the nature of the triune God.<br />I thought White did a good job on a number of fronts. First, he adequately defines the doctrine of the Trinity at the start so that the reader has a good basis for what the rest of the book will attempt to demonstrate. White does an excellent job of analyzing the Father, Jesus, and the Holy Spirit as described in Scripture in order to support the Biblical truth of Trinitarianism. His analysis of the first chapter of John is one of the real highlights of the book. Lastly, I thought White did a good job of showing where the Jehovah's Witnesses are often in error on this issue, and does a good job, especially in the notes, of contrasting Trinitarianism with the often inconsistent unitarianism of other worldviews. One of the underlying strengths of the book which greatly bolsters all of the above areas is White's treatment of various Greek terms that really shed light on what the Scriptures are truly trying to communicate.<br />A comment needs to be made about the layout of this book. I found the notes to be extremely illuminating to the main text of the book. I would therefore greatly encourage the reader to read the notes concurrently with the main text in order to gain a deeper appreciation for White's work.<br />The only criticism I have of the book is not really a criticism as much as it is regret. White declares early on that this book is not meant to be an extensive apologetic of the Trinity, in the respect that White is not attempting to refute every argument that has been lobbed against Trinitarianism. He indicates that there are other works that deal with this. I respect the approach that White takes in this book. But unfortunately, a book like this cries out for a list of suggested readings which would complement White's book. The omission of such a list is not sufficient to demote the 5 star rating I've given the book, but it is an omission that I, for one, regret.<br />But overall, this is an excellent resource on Trinitarianism that I would recommend to all Christians, but especially new Christians. The Trinity is a complicated doctrine, but it is an essential doctrine of the faith. This book provides the reader with an entertaining read that is nonetheless meticulous in demonstrating the truth of Trinitarianism, and showing that this doctrine is inescapably Biblical. A fine resource.	2001-09-04
US	50142550	R2HZ1ZEV9UW3BQ	0801063353	303072456	Mormonism 101:  Examining the Religion of the Latter-day Saints	Books	4	20	30	N	N	Exactly what the Title Says	McKeever and Johnson have written a good introductory text on several aspects of Mormonism which make it a good resource for Christians to better understand Mormonism and the evolution of the Mormon church over the last 160 years or so. I thought that the authors did a very good job of meticulously documenting their sources in an effort to head off criticism that the book is just a tirade against Mormonism, or that the assertions made grossly misrepresent Mormonism, or are grossly out of date with present day Mormonism. A number of Mormons who have read this book have commented both on Amazon and elsewhere that if nothing else, the book is indeed a fair analysis of Mormonism and most agree that Mormonism is not misrepresented in this book. That makes this book very valuable and trustworthy at least so far as its analysis of Mormonism is concerned. There was much I learned about the Mormon faith from this book. I debated whether to give this book 5 stars, but I opted for 4 stars instead for a couple of reasons. First, while I recognize that the authors were attempting to write a '101' type book, and that it is therefore unfair of me to expect a more in depth scholarly book, I thought that the authors could have done a better job of driving their points home and completing the arguments and analysis that they conducted. I think that in the process of being very careful in presenting an accurate portrayal of Mormonism that would not be terribly offensive to Mormons, the authors may have been too gentle in some of their analysis and conclusions. As a result, I felt that while their examination of Mormonism was very good, the conclusions they reached were often incomplete. Secondly, one of the things the authors were trying to achieve was to contrast Mormonism with Christianity. This goal was only partially achieved. I felt that their Scriptural examination of Mormonism was not in depth enough, among other things. The vast majority of the pages in this book are devoted to examining Mormonism, not with contrasting it with Christianity. I think a better balance could have been struck so that the reader could have gained better knowledge not only about the tenets of Mormonism, but in how these tenets do not reconcile with Christianity. Overall, I would highly recommend this book to Christians in particular who are interested in better understanding Mormonism and whether or not Mormonism can really be considered Christian. I think while the authors could have done a better job of examining this, I do think that they provide a lot of material to pretty easily reach the conclusion that Mormonism is not Christian and that it holds to fundamentally different creeds about God, Jesus, the Church, salvation, sacraments, etc. One of the things that the authors effectively demonstrate is that until recently, such an assertion was not at all controversial among Mormonism. Mormonism's recent push to mainstream itself with 'the rest of Christianity' hides a fundamental tenet of the Mormon church that has been historically held for the vast majority of the church's history. That tenet being that the Mormon church is indeed unique, and that it has to be unique from the rest of Christianity in order to justify its existence. For the vast majority of the Mormon church's history, they have reveled in holding to different creeds and beliefs than the Christian church. For a Christian to suggest today that Mormonism is not Christian in the respect that it differs from the Christian church on a whole series of issues should not only be non controversial to Mormons, it should be affirmed since that's what the Mormon church has been teaching since its inception. I would have enjoyed an analysis from the authors of this book relative to why Mormonism is trying so hard to mainstream itself with a Christian church that according to Mormon teachings, has been apostate for 1,600 years. This is one example where the authors examination of Mormonism is very good, but their conclusions and contrastings with Christianity are incomplete. But still, it's a very good resource.	2001-08-27
US	50142550	R29JL7HVVL7GZ6	0785266909	37272406	Ordinary People, Extraordinary Faith: Stories of Inspiration	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Very Inspiring Because it Profiles Real People	Joni Eareckson Tada is one of the true giants of the Christian faith.  She has written many excellent books, has inspired countless numbers of people with her life story, and has started and been involved with a truly wonderful international disability ministry that has brought hope to the hopeless throughout the world.<br />In this latest literary effort, Joni profiles a number of everyday people who have allowed God to use them in extraordinary ways.  One might read this book and easily come away thinking that these are the kind of people that should be receiving earthly recognition in newspapers and on television for the amazing work they do and their amazing life stories.  But it is the very fact that these folks go mostly unrecognized that adds tremendous authenticity to their lives.  Each one of these folks have simply put their faith in Christ to lead them, direct them, and use them.  These folks demonstrate the most powerful apologetic for the reality of Christ and the authenticity of Christianity - a life completely committed to serving God in positive ways for real people, regardless of the adversity and very real sufferings they have endured.  This is something that simply cannot be argued with.  Those who believe that Christ is a fake and Christianity a sham eliminate the only plausible explanations for the lives profiled in this book.<br />The folks Joni profiles here are a very diverse group in terms of background, race, geographic location, economic condition, ministry calling, physical condition, gender, and age.  A number of folks profiled achieved victory in Christ over disabilities and other life changing events that were beyond their control.  Others achieved victory in Christ over self destructive lives that they were very much in control of.  Some folks have established life changing ministries that have accomplished amazing things by God's grace.  Others have simply persevered through difficulties and have been used by God in more personal andinformal ministries.  <br />Each story is extremely candid, with many of the folks profiled being extremely candid about their sufferings, their feelings toward God at various points in their lives, and the present day realities they continue to face.  Many of these stories, while having a happy ending in many respects, do not have fairy tale endings.  When reading many of these stories, the reader is convicted not only by how incredibly God has used these people, but also about how much more needs to be done and how much more suffering there still is, and how many more Christians need to exhibit the kind of faith that these folks do, because there is no shortage of needs to be met.<br />This book struck me as being extremely authentic.  It's one thing to be inspired by something we see on television or somethin we hear about on the radio.  It's quite another to draw inspiration from real lives going through real difficulties, and emerging victorious because of real faith in a real God that is available to everyone.  This kind of authentic inspiration can deeply penetrate the reader precisely because there's no fiction here.  This is real life that is being discussed, and it is very likely that most every reader will identify with at least one of the stories profiled, due to the real life diversity of the people profiled and their struggles.<br />In conclusion, I highly recommend this book for anyone who is looking for authentic inspiration, a sense of purpose, a sense of shared experiences, and most importantly, someone who is looking for an authentic look at what's possible when we achieve spiritual wholeness with Christ.	2001-08-04
US	50142550	R1ZBYCJ5US9T8G	0899007325	936124138	The Historical Jesus: Ancient Evidence for the Life of Christ	Books	4	24	32	N	N	More like 3.5 stars	This book is a mixed bag, some good, some not so good.  <br />Habermas divides the book into 2 basic sections.  The first section discusses the relevance, practicality, and even possibility of studying the historical Jesus.  This section includes critiques of various strains of thought in this area, including a section examining the Jesus Seminar's alleged quest for the historical Jesus.  The conclusion reached is that a sincere search for the historical Jesus is very possible and also relevant, but that not all of the 'searches' that have been and are being conducted are of equal intellectual and scholarly value.<br />The second section of the book looks at various historical and non New Testament sources and what these sources say about the historical Jesus.  The conclusion of this section is that contrary to claims that Jesus Christ is barely mentioned outside the New Testament, that Jesus Christ is in fact one of the more documented historical figures of ancient times.<br />Both sections have positives and negatives.  The first section is pretty good in evaluating the possibility that historical facts about Jesus are attainable and are worth attaining.  But I found many of his critiques of various attempts to 'uncover' the historical Jesus to be too surface level.  This section could have been improved upon greatly, but it also seemed like Habermas was trying to conduct the minimalist examination possible in order to set the stage for the second section.  The result is a first section that doesn't dig nearly deep enough.  To be fair, Habermas does refer the readers to other sources which explore some of the topics he did not explore in greater detail.  The reader would be wise to examine these sources, since Habermas, in my opinion, glossed over a number of important issues.<br />The second section was better than the first section.  I thought that Habermas did a good job of demonstrating that many critical facts about the historical Jesus are attainable from non New Testament sources of ancient times, and that almost all of these sources confirm the accounts in the New Testament.  This not only demonstrates that the historical Jesus is knowable and was known enough that critical facts about Him and the early church were documented in a number of preserved secular writings of the time, it also provides the Christian with formidable evidence that the New Testament accounts of Jesus and the attitudes about Jesus that were held by the early church are historical and authentic.  This is of fundamental importance.  Folks who reject Christianity on intellectual grounds, one way or the other, have to try to discredit the authenticity of the Bible in order to make their case.  If they can't do that, then their rejection of Christianity is no longer an intellectual objection, but an emotional one - which can also be countered by the Christian through speaking the truth in love and asking the Holy Spirit to change that person's heart.  I thought that Habermas put forth a pretty good case that ancient writings external to the New Testament confirm the accuracy of many tenets discussed in the New Testament.  And while this does not automatically guarantee that the Bible is accurate and infallible, it helps make the case as part of a larger argument.<br />The downside of section 2 was Habermas's qualified reliance on a few questionable sources.  To his credit, he does clearly say at several points that the sources he uses are not of equal value in a historical context.  But nonetheless, he does rely on at least a couple of questionable sources, albeit qualifiedly, in making the case for a knowable historical Jesus.  <br />Overall, the book is good for as far as it goes, and in a couple of important areas, I think Habermas's analysis is fairly thorough.  But in a number of other areas, Habermas glosses over important points, and tends to rely far too much on scholarly consensus instead of conducting his own analysis.  As he himself saysin the early part of the book, a certain proposition isn't automatically right just because a number of scholars may have signed on to it, it is either right, wrong, or still in question based on the analytical reasons in support or against the proposition.  Yet, Habermas then relies heavily on scholarly consensus throughout much of the book as opposed to presenting the very kind of detailed analytical argument he insists needs to be done in order to weigh the viability of the assertion.  This is a major weakness of the book, and footnoting other sources doesn't adequately compensate for it.<br />In conclusion, I think Habermas had a very specific goal in mind when he wrote the book - to conduct a quest for the historical Jesus.  Unfortunately, such a quest requires an exhaustive exploration into the authenticity and veracity of many different sources, including the New Testament, and of competing quests.  In Habermas's quest for the historical Jesus, many of these critical and necessary 'side roads' were glossed over, presumably because he felt he could reference other books and resources.  And while he does do a good job of this, I was left with the impression that fundamentally important aspects of this issue were not covered well.  As such, Habermas creates a self imposed ceiling on the relevance of his book, which didn't have to happen.  A good resource, but clearly one that has to be a part of a much larger library of resources that deal with the issues that Habermas did not deal with extensively.	2001-08-03
US	50142550	R1O1A8S0N08G4U	0310443911	14241414	Is Jesus the Only Savior?	Books	4	31	35	N	N	Very good, but could have been better	This effort by Ron Nash is good and worth reading.  There are a number of very good things about this book, but there are also a couple of things about it that in my view, do not warrant a five star rating.<br />Nash attempts to argue in favor of an exclusivist view of salvation mostly by trying to present negative aspects of both the pluralist and inclusivist views.  He therefore devotes the first part of the book to critiquing the pluralism of John Hick, and the second part to critiquing the inclusivism of Pinnock and Sanders.<br />His critique of Hick's pluralism was easily the best part of the book.  Nash methodically analyzes the pluralism of John Hick and by the end of the critique, the reader is left with the impression that Hick's pluralism has been thoroughly discredited not only on intellectual grounds, but on emotional ones as well.  As in his other writings, one of Nash's analytical strengths is his insistence on quoting from relevant sources at length.  Nash dedicates a significant part of the pluralist section on quoting from John Hick and letting Hick's own words be the basis for Nash's analysis.  Nash's conclusions about Hick's philosophy and the ramifications thereof become all the more convincing as a result.  <br />In my own view, I cannot say that Nash had the same level of success in analyzing inclusivism in section 2 as he had with demonstrating the falsity of pluralism in section 1.  It's not that this section is bad, because it isn't, there is a lot about his analysis that is good, particularly his analysis of PME and how Pinnock's embrace of it totally contradicts the inclusivist worldview that Pinnock also embraces.  But particularly in his analyses of the Scriptural reference that inclusivists often use to support their worldview, I felt that Nash's critique was too summary oriented and not sufficiently detailed to mount a convincing case against inclusivism.  To his credit, I thought that Nash did a good job in the very last chapter of rescuing his exclusivism argument a bit, but I still felt that his analysis of inclusivism needed to be more detailed in order for him to effectively demonstrate what he was trying to demonstrate.<br />The one other negative aspect of the book, in my opinion, is that Nash does not present a positive case for exclusivism.  His argument for exclusivism is based almost completely on negatively critiquing pluralism and inclusivism.  And while these critiques certainly needed to be done in order to demonstrate that these worldviews run into big intellectual and emotional problems when thoroughly thought through, Nash nonetheless should have put forth a positive defense of exclusivism in order for this book to truly achieve its mission.  This absence, coupled with what I believed to be the too top level nature of his Scriptural critique of inclusivism, persuade me to give the book 4 stars instead of 5.  Having said that, his critique of pluralism is top grade, and even his critique of inclusivism, while not perfect, still produces lucid arguments and comments that are worthy of being read, in my opinion.	2001-07-23
US	50142550	R2WC4LUDUZK1JC	083081650X	644598495	Knowing God	Books	5	22	24	N	N	A Classic Treatise on &quot;knowing&quot; the God of the Bible	This book is considered a contemporary Christian classic in Christian circles.  The list of names who have endorsed and praised this book is like a 'who's who' of Christian thought.  Needless to say, this book has quite a reputation to live up to.  After reading it, my opinion is that it does indeed live up to its billing.<br />This book is a lengthy, methodical, and comprehensive analysis of the God of the Bible, and how we should respond to what the Bible says about Him.  At the outset, Packer draws a compelling distinction between 'knowing God', and simply knowing 'about' God.  The rest of his book then seeks to flood the reader with knowing God and how awesome a task this really is.<br />On an overall scale, I took two main things away from this book, both of which are desperately needed in the body of Christ today:<br />1)  To its credit, this book does not sugarcoat God.  Packer directly takes on the conventional practice of defining God exclusively as a 'God of love' in a humanly subjective sense.  This book clearly demonstrates that God is indeed a God of love, but in ways that are not regularly talked about in our churches or felt by professing believers.  Further, Packer does justice to God by discussing at length the judicial aspect of God as repeatedly discussed in Scripture.  Any analysis of God that's even remotely worthwhile will enter into this domain.  Packer does it without apology and presents God not as a benevolent and non offensive deity that doesn't care enough about sin and evil to judge it accordingly (and to then call this kind of god a god of love), but as a God who is zealously interested in His creation and wants human beings to live upright lives and that because of His loving holiness, cannot allow evil and injustice to go unpunished.  This concept is essential to any real understanding of God, and understanding that when the idea of 'God is love' is meant to communicate the idea that God should never judge anybody or anything becauseit would somehow be unloving for the Creator of the universe to do so, that this kind of 'love' does not resemble the God of the Bible, and that we should be thankful that God's love does not resemble an approach as unloving, apathetic, and crippling as this.<br />2)  Packer, by analyzing the nature and character of God, also spends considerable time analyzing the nature and character of human beings.  And similar to his ongoing examination of God, Packer does not sugarcoat his analysis of the human condition.  Throughout the book, Packer's essential theme is that God is completely holy and perfect, and that human beings aren't, and that as human beings, we would be wise to continually recognize the difference between us and God.  I think Packer impeccably drives home the point that as human beings, we simply can't have an adequate appreciation for God's holiness and love for us until we come to grips with how sinful and unholy we are, and how this sinful nature manifests itself in the world we live in each day.  <br />On both of these points, Packer uses straight talk, straight out of Scripture.  Packer is clearly writing in response to what he believes is a systematic watering down within the body of Christ of the holiness of God and the hopelessness of humanity outside of God's grace.  Packer clearly believes that large segments of the body of Christ today are scared to preach these things or declare personal allegiance to such ideas, because they seem so 'unenlightened', 'outdated', or bordering too close to the fire and brimstone kind of messages that folks today recoil at.  So as not to be misunderstood, I don't believe this book to be a fire and brimstone book.  But I do believe it be a level headed and thoroughly Bible-based examination of God and humanity.  And while certain parts of this book may be uncomfortable for some to read (I was a little uncomfortable with some of what was written), it was really clear to me that the thorough and genuine joy, hope,and purpose of the Christian life is best achieved when we understand both God and ourselves in light of what Scripture says about both.  Without 'knowing' this, we are inevitably left with a reduced view of the perfection of God, as well as an inflated view of ourselves.  And this worldview is very dangerous, and also very debilitating.  Such a worldview provides scant comfort when we are suffering or enduring trials and difficulties.  But a true knowledge of God, as Packer so eloquently shows, leads to an entirely different perspective and can truly lead to a dependence on God that knows no limits as to the benefits we will receive from such a dependence.<br />A great book, a true classic.  A must have, in my opinion.	2001-07-23
US	50142550	R1XP1VP9E3Q7FX	0945241097	103305959	The Gospel and the Greeks: Did the New Testament Borrow from Pagan Thought? (Christian Free University Curriculum)	Books	5	64	74	N	N	THE Definitive Resource on this Topic	I consider this book to be a 'must have' because of how critical I think the subject matter is, and how well I think Nash analyzes the subject.<br />On the surface, many folks might think that the topic is very obscure or not all that important.  And while it's true that the subject matter is somewhat complicated and can initially appear pretty irrelevant to present day Christianity, it is nonetheless a topic with enormous present day relevance and deserves to be explored.  In a nutshell, this book attempts to analyze whether early Christianity was influenced by pagan philosophical systems or by ideas that existed in the pagan mystery religions.  There are a number of reasons why such an examination is so important.  First, as this book mentions, a link of influence of paganism on early Christianity has been a common tactic among various folks in academia who are looking to discredit the Christian faith in front of an impressionable audience, and while not mentioning it, the Jesus Seminar has also been diligent in advancing such arguments in an effort to dedeify Jesus.  And the reason is clear.  One can make major inroads in discrediting the authenticity of Christianity if they can demonstrate, for example, that the resurrection of Jesus as described in the Gospels was really a mythical story copied from allegedly similar recountings in the pagan mystery religions.  If this could be demonstrated, any number of additional negative ideas could be argued with greater force, such as that Jesus wasn't really God because the resurrection recountings of the Gospels are not historical but mythical and parallel other myths of the time, or that Jesus is no more special or unique than other supposed gods or deities in other religions.  It is clear that the ramifications of these kind of theories, if proven, would be devastating to Christianity.  Thus, the importance of this book.<br />Nash carefully divides the book into 3 sections; analyzing the possibility that early Christianity was influenced by pagan philosophy such as Platonism or Stoicism, analyzing the possibility that early Christianity borrowed some of its stories from the pagan mystery religions such as Isis/Osiris or Mithra, and analyzing whether Christianity was influenced by Gnosticism.  In each case, Nash does a good job of beginning his analysis by clearly defining the terms of the debate, and fairly representing the claims made by those who positively assert pagan influence on Christianity.  These introductions give the reader a very good starting point for seeing how these arguments, when left unscrutinized, can on the surface appear to be compelling.  By presenting the arguments fairly and completely, Nash does a good job of peaking the interest of the reader to read on in order to find out whether these arguments really hold water once we get below the surface.  And particularly in the analyses of pagan philosophy and the mystery religions, Nash's analyses are very detailed and meticulous.  Nash's analyses are very effective in meticulously discrediting these arguments and in most cases, showing very clearly the lazy scholarship that often fuels such arguments.  By doing this, Nash not only puts these arguments in their place, he affirms the historical reliability, uniqueness, and truth of the Christian faith as described in the New Testament and clearly demonstrates that there is absolutely no evidence of a pagan influence on Christianity, and in fact, there is sufficient evidence to suggest a Christian influence on paganism.<br />In summary, after one reads this book, it is likely that they may scratch their heads in wonder when one thinks about why this book had to be written, given the lazy and even contrived scholarship that is the basis for so many of the arguments affirming a pagan influence on early Christianity.  One might reasonably wonder how such ideas ever had any credibility to start with when Nash so completely destroys the arguments with very simple facts and analysis.  I applaud Nash for being so thorough in the topics covered and in the analysis.  There are over 30 pages of footnotes at the end of the book for the reader who is interested in conducting additional research and examining other pertinent resources.  I completely concur with what Nash says in this book when commenting on the alleged influence of the mystery religions on early Christianity, &quot;These..arguments against Christian syncretism help us understand why biblical scholars today seldom claim any early Christian dependence on the mysteries.  They constitute an impressive collection of reasons why scholars in such other fields as history and philosophy should rethink their methods and conclusions and finally put such views to rest.&quot;  This is an excellent book, and one that can greatly help any Christian easily and effectively counter the claims of pagan influence on the early faith.  A 'must have' for any apologetics collection.	2001-07-18
US	50142550	RS9LP84R7QS6Z	0824512596	449966998	In the Name of Jesus: Reflections on Christian Leadership	Books	4	9	13	N	N	Very short, but very good	I read this book in an hour, but that one hour of reading produced many more hours of personal thought and reflection about what it means to be a leader in ministry who truly reflects (albeit imperfectly) the Savior we serve.<br />Nouwen is addressing this book to 'priests and ministers' but I think many of the principles he discusses are very applicable to almost anyone who wants to serve God in ministry, even in non leadership capacities.  I was particularly struck by what I thought was a critical point he made when he discussed how those of us who serve in ministry can often get sidetracked and distracted in our work for God when we begin to equate our service with our own glory and not God's.  He talks about how people are susceptible to impure motives when serving God, and this is a very critical point.  While he doesn't explore this in as much detail as I might have liked, the message is clear.  As leaders in ministry, we will regularly encounter and serve people who are in tough situations.  And while it's a wonderful thing to minister to those who are hurting in one form or another, we need to realize that this is a position of tremendous responsibility.  Having this responsibility can tempt people into coveting power or influence, which can lead to any number of abuses once our motives for service are not pure.  All the more reason to enter into Christian leadership with the right motives and a heart that is right with God.  Nouwen did not explore this in great detail, but he does explore it within the context of being an effective leader for God who has joy in their service and whom God uses to the fullest for the benefit of those we serve.<br />Because of its shortness, it is far from a comprehensive look at honorable Christian leadership.  But I think the topics he chooses to cover are handled well, and speak very eloquently to the heart that yearns to serve God with joy.  I think that Nouwen puts forward a number of ideas that if implemented, will be successful in sparking joy in the hearts of Christians who serve God, and will result in joy and transformation not only for the Christian who is serving, but also for those he/she serves.  It is a plan of action that allows God to refine us and those we serve, and in my view, there is no higher purpose for ministry then this.  A good book.	2001-07-06
US	50142550	R3CHWDMKXZZBSF	0310577713	163219367	Worldviews in Conflict: Choosing Christianity in a World of Ideas	Books	5	24	25	N	N	Excellent Treatment of a Difficult Topic	This is an excellent book.  Ron Nash does a very good job of building up a philosophical apologetic for how to evaluate worldviews/religions/belief systems, and then make comparisons in a meaningful way.  There are several things worth noting about this book that are in its favor.<br />Nash starts out by building up a series of 'tests' upon which all worldviews can be evaluated.  This is the most important part of the book.  Without a standard set of tests that can be applied to any worldview, comparisons between worldviews are probably pointless.  There has to be a universal basis upon which to conduct such comparisons, and it's this basis that Nash attempts to erect in the early part of the book.  Just as importantly, the tests themselves have to be reasonable, intelligent, and complete.  Folks who read the later part of the book in which worldview comparisons are made and don't like what they see when worldviews are compared with each other are likely to try to discredit the standards or tests themselves that are the basis for these comparisons.  If the tests don't make sense, or are biased, or are not exhaustive, the worldview comparisons conducted by applying such tests will not carry a great deal of weight with those who don't like the grade their particular worldview gets by applying these tests.  So needless to say, the issue of building a comprehensive and objective set of standards by which viable worldview comparisons can be made is the most critical part of the book.  And I found that Nash's tests make a great deal of sense and are a legitimate basis upon which to evaluate competing worldviews and draw meaningful conclusions that are relevant to real people.<br />I found that Nash then did a good job of applying these tests.  For the purposes of this book, Nash applies his tests to Christianity, naturalism, and the New Age movement.  Nash's conclusion is that Christianity passes each test, while both naturalism and the New Age movement have serious problems on almost all fronts.  His analyses are not terribly lengthy (more on this later), but they are concise and attempt to highlight a few specific areas of each worldview that tend to be the most controversial or difficult to accept.<br />Nash's analysis accomplishes a couple of things.  First, in my view, he demonstrates pretty clearly that the Christian worldview, far from being anti-intellectual and anti-reason, is actually the worldview that best stands up to the processes of logic and reason in comparison with other worldviews.  But even if someone doesn't accept this, this book is still a success.  In my view, it is virtually impossible to read this book and conclude that these various worldviews are pretty much the same.  If nothing else, Nash clearly shows that not only are these worldviews very different from each other, they actually conflict with each other on many fundamental questions.  This, in and of itself, is an important thing to demonstrate.  An increasing number of people today believe that all worldviews or belief systems are equally true.  Nash clearly demonstrates that this idea cannot be true.  As thinking human beings who have been granted the gifts of logic, reason, and independent thinking, if nothing else, these intellectual gifts compel us to make choices when we encounter competing worldviews.<br />Lastly, this book is not very long, only 170 pages or so.  As a result, I entered into reading this book a bit skeptical that the book would be able to thoroughly cover this topic, particularly since the whole issue of worldview comparisons and erecting tests for such comparisons can lead folks into a myriad of technical discussions that can lead in all kinds of different directions.  To his credit, Nash repeatedly acknowledges this throughout his book.  I felt that Nash was being very honest with the reader in footnoting and highlighting areas throughout the book where there was plenty of room for additional discussion or analysis but wouldhave gotten the book off message, so he chose not to explore them.  To his credit, in practically each instance where Nash volunteers that additional research is a good idea, he refers the reader to resources that address the kinds of questions or issues that the reader might reasonably have, but that Nash does not explore in this book.  This impressed me, and made me feel that Nash was not purposefully glossing over difficult topics, but was in fact purposefully deferring those topics to other resources and then referring the reader to those resources.<br />So in summary, Nash achieves what he set out to achieve in this book.  He presents a very reasonable and defendable set of tests upon which any worldview can be analyzed, and that by applying these tests, Christianity emerges as the worldview with the greatest intellectual integrity in comparison to other worldviews.  A scholarly examination, and very well done.	2001-07-05
US	50142550	R1ANMV9NBWU205	1576737330	808732835	The Prayer of Jabez:  Breaking Through to the Blessed Life	Books	3	23	27	N	N	Conflicted about this book	I am a Christian who enjoys Christian books on theology and Christian living.  So I think I have at least a decent idea of the purposes behind someone's writings.  But in this case, the book struck me as trying to communicate a certain message, but not doing it well enough to avoid having it misinterpreted as communicating something entirely different.<br />I'm pretty sure that Wilkinson's goal for this book was to try and encourage Christians to be willing to take the often ominous and intimidating step of asking God to use them to the fullest.  This step is often an intimidating one because I think many Christians intrinsically understand that being completely sold out for God the way that Wilkinson is trying to convince us to be can lead us in all kinds of directions that threaten our earthly desires for security, stability, predictability, and earthly acceptance.  Those who really do go all out for God and ask God to increase their ministry in the way Wilkinson suggests find out that God really follows through on their request and put them in situations where He is using them to the fullest, but are also situations that are so extreme in one form or another that we find ourselves surrenduring to God even more.  This is an exciting way to serve God, but it clearly causes many of us to get out of our own comfort zones, which can be a very intimidating thing.<br />If I had thought that Wilkinson had clearly and unambiguously communicated this message, I would enthusiastically support this book.  But unfortunately, while I think this was the message that Wilkinson wanted to communicate, I don't think he did it well enough to avoid having his presentation be easily misinterpreted.  While I don't think he is communicating a prosperity gospel here, in my opinion, he too often comes too close to at least flirting with it by not clearly rebuking the prosperity theology when he discusses asking God for various earthly things in order to better accomplish a particular ministry.  Again, I don't think he intended to promote a prosperity gospel here, but when someone writes a book that urges us to be comfortable asking for earthly things when our motivation is to serve God completely, that person should be sensitive to how easily that can be misinterpreted into trying to put a spiritual stamp of approval on the practice of asking for material stuff so that we can live comfortable and materialistic lives.  Those two philosophies are very different, and Wilkinson should have done a better job of clearly dilineating between the two.<br />Because he didn't, I cannot wholeheartedly recommend the book.  There's some good stuff in here, particularly in the area of temptation.  But the mark of any good book is one that is written in such a way that it clearly communicates its message so that most readers clearly understand what the philosophy is, and what it isn't.  Wilkinson failed to do that in my humble view, and the result is a book that has lots of potential, but could be a point of great confusion for a lot of folks who might pick it up.	2001-06-11
US	50142550	R2X2RGKPW5GY1S	1576737330	89800612	The Prayer of Jabez:  Breaking Through to the Blessed Life	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Conflicted about this book	I am a Christian who enjoys Christian books on theology and Christian living.  So I think I have at least a decent idea of the purposes behind someone's writings.  But in this case, the book struck me as trying to communicate a certain message, but not doing it well enough to avoid having it misinterpreted as communicating something entirely different.<br />I'm pretty sure that Wilkinson's goal for this book was to try and encourage Christians to be willing to take the often ominous and intimidating step of asking God to use them to the fullest.  This step is often an intimidating one because I think many Christians intrinsically understand that being completely sold out for God the way that Wilkinson is trying to convince us to be can lead us in all kinds of directions that threaten our earthly desires for security, stability, predictability, and earthly acceptance.  Those who really do go all out for God and ask God to increase their ministry in the way Wilkinson suggests find out that God really follows through on their request and put them in situations where He is using them to the fullest, but are also situations that are so extreme in one form or another that we find ourselves surrenduring to God even more.  This is an exciting way to serve God, but it clearly causes many of us to get out of our own comfort zones, which can be a very intimidating thing.<br />If I had thought that Wilkinson had clearly and unambiguously communicated this message, I would enthusiastically support this book.  But unfortunately, while I think this was the message that Wilkinson wanted to communicate, I don't think he did it well enough to avoid having his presentation be easily misinterpreted.  While I don't think he is communicating a prosperity gospel here, in my opinion, he too often comes too close to at least flirting with it by not clearly rebuking the prosperity theology when he discusses asking God for various earthly things in order to better accomplish a particular ministry.  Again, I don't think he intended to promote a prosperity gospel here, but when someone writes a book that urges us to be comfortable asking for earthly things when our motivation is to serve God completely, that person should be sensitive to how easily that can be misinterpreted into trying to put a spiritual stamp of approval on the practice of asking for material stuff so that we can live comfortable and materialistic lives.  Those two philosophies are very different, and Wilkinson should have done a better job of clearly dilineating between the two.<br />Because he didn't, I cannot wholeheartedly recommend the book.  There's some good stuff in here, particularly in the area of temptation.  But the mark of any good book is one that is written in such a way that it clearly communicates its message so that most readers clearly understand what the philosophy is, and what it isn't.  Wilkinson failed to do that in my humble view, and the result is a book that has lots of potential, but could be a point of great confusion for a lot of folks who might pick it up.stry.  Again, I don't think he intended to promote a prosperity gospel here, but when someone writes a book that urges us to be comfortable asking for earthly things when our motivation is to serve God completely, that person should be sensitive to how easily that can be misinterpreted into trying to put a spiritual stamp of approval on the practice of asking for material stuff so that we can live comfortable and materialistic lives.  Those two philosophies are very different, and Wilkinson should have done a better job of clearly dilineating between the two.<br />Because he didn't, I cannot wholeheartedly recommend the book.  There's some good stuff in here, particularly in the area of temptation.  But the mark of any good book is one that is written in such a way that it clearly communicates its message so that most readers clearly understand what the philosophy is, and what it isn't.  Wilkinson failed to do that in my humble view, and the result is a book that has lots of potential, but could be a point of great confusion for a lot of folks who might pick it up.	2001-06-11
US	50142550	R2EDHEXAZKS6EI	0842318089	894734344	How Now Shall We Live?	Books	5	42	45	N	N	Good Source for Christian Living	Colson does a good job of conducting a rather exhaustive examination of various worldviews that run contrary to Christianity that have gained acceptance through the media, schools, and assorted literature.  He then describes ways that Christians can lovingly project the Christian worldview in society in an effort to regain some footing in the marketplace of ideas.<br />His major emphasis is on naturalism, which includes a significant portion of the book devoted to examining evolution.  I felt that this examination of naturalism was very good and fairly exhaustive.  Naturalism is a complex belief system with various facets emanating from a core belief that there is no God.  Colson didn't intend for this book to be purely an academic study of naturalism, and that's not what the reader will find when reading the book.  Colson's emphasis is on explaining this belief understandably in order to show how pervasive it has become in the everyday messages that are being sent by the culture in terms of how people should live and what their perspective should be.  In this way, Colson does a very good job.<br />I didn't totally agree with everything written in the last section where he describes how we as Christians should counteract naturalism and set the record straight.  But I did agree with much of what he said here, and even though I didn't agree with certain things, the whole section was nonetheless well written and well thought out.  I respect what Colson had to say here, even though I didn't totally agree with everything he said.<br />I consider this to be a very good book and a &quot;must have&quot; for parents in particular who are concerned about the messages their children may be receiving in schools and on television and the internet.  This book clearly demonstrates that the culture is not on the side of the Christian worldview at present, and that it is a mistake for Christians, especially Christian parents, to assume that the culture is merely neutral towards theChristian faith.  In fact, much of the culture's &quot;gospel&quot; is actively hostile to Christian ideas and ideals and while regretable, we must be diligent to correct the undercutting of Christianity in our society and lovingly stand up to this particularly where our children are concerned.  I think this book provides many solids tools and facts to give Christians a formidable strategy for combatting many of the ideas held sacred by many in the culture.	2001-03-05
US	50142550	R30Y27QEKRVUPZ	0802416497	750418843	Christ Among Other gods: A Defense of Christ in an Age of Tolerance	Books	4	33	34	N	N	Fabulous Except for One Chapter	Lutzer has done a splendid job of writing what I would consider to be an introductory work on comparative religious studies.  From a Christian perspective, he attempts to take on the practice of watering down Christianity (and other religions as well) by those committed to achieving a mushy religious middle in the name of universal tolerance.  For the most part, I think he does a very good job here.<br />There appear to be two main areas of emphasis in the book.  Lutzer spends the first several chapters in the book analyzing the notion of tolerance and critiquing the concept of reducing all truth claims to subjective experience instead of objective evidences.  I think Lutzer does a very good job of demonstrating that subjective truth is a poor substitute for objective truth that can be independently proven by independent evidences and proofs.  And I think Lutzer effectively shows this desire to redefine truth by what we feel instead of what we can prove is at the heart of the efforts to establish a &quot;tolerant&quot; universal religion.  What struck me in Lutzer's analysis is that it is quite ironic that the systematic watering down and dismissal of Christianity's UNIQUE truth claims (and therefore the religious beliefs of countless millions of people) is seen as &quot;tolerant&quot;.  Quite the contrary, this is extremely intolerant because it attempts to undermine the period documentation of the unique nature of Christianity in order to conduct a selective and revisionist history exercise that is completely subjective in nature, and then uses this method to trump the overwhelming independent evidences that have been the traditional bases for belief among Christians for two millenia.  One of the strong pillars of the tolerance movement is the belief that any religion (but particularly Christianity) that makes exclusive truth claims is both intolerant and arrogant.  Well, I can think of little else that is more arrogant than supplanting objective and independent evidences documented within 100 years of the events with a present day set of subjective opinions, arrived at 2000 years after the fact, that &quot;feel good&quot; and calling this tolerant.  Because it is very intolerant of virtually all methods to arrive at the truth objectively that have been practiced forever.  And it is also guilty of being self defeating.  By saying that Christianity can be lumped together with all religions as being no more true or valid than anything else, the tolerance movement is erecting an exclusive truth claim of its own and therefore failing its own tolerance test.  I thought Lutzer examined this very well.<br />Lutzer then spends many of the remaining chapters specifically examining areas where Christianity is completely unique and cannot be melted into other religions with intellectual honesty.  I thought it was important for Lutzer to conduct such an examination to demonstrate to the reader that the uniqueness of Christianity is not merely an academic opinion, but a real life reality that raises enormous questions and problems for those trying to find truth in all religions.  I think Lutzer did a good job of showing that Christianity's uniqueness is not simply a case of putting different shingles on the same house, but is in fact a different house, on a different street, and in a different neighborhood than all other religions.<br />After getting through most of the book, I was fully poised to give the book 5 stars.  But regrettably, near the end of the book, Lutzer devotes a chapter to discussing things like suffering, injustice, and evil in the world.  It was here that I was very disappointed in Lutzer's Christian response to these things.  There is little doubt that humanity has long been bothered by the presence of evil and suffering and wondering how any god could allow such things to occur in the world.  But I believe very strongly that Christianity has many unique and compelling answers to these legitimate questions, and theseanswers have been a source of comfort for many over the centuries.  But unfortunately, after writing a whole book about how Christianity is unique and best fits the test of independent verifications in comparison with other religions, Lutzer responds to the question of evil and suffering by lumping Christianity together with other religions by basically asserting that as Christians, we don't really know why things happen the way they do and all we can do is trust that God will work it all out.  That response is not unique to Christianity, nor is it an adequate representation of the Christian response to evil.  It's true that we don't know everything, but we know a lot more than nothing, and Lutzer's response comes dangerously close to implying that Christianity doesn't have real life and practical answers to why bad things happen, when in reality, Christianity is the religion best equipped to answer such things in a practical and relevant way to those who are hurting.  <br />I considered Lutzer's section on suffering to be sufficiently weak as to demote the rating from 5 stars to 4.  But with the exception of this one chapter, I think Lutzer did a very good job of affirming the unique nature of Christianity and clearly spelling out how Christianity fundamentally differs from other religions on major points that are eternal in nature.  I would highly recommend this book, with the regretful note about the one chapter I disliked.	2001-03-05
US	50142550	R14KUCVIURXO4V	0800753658	31269178	Prepare Your Church for the Future	Books	4	14	14	N	N	Important Model for Church Growth and Vitality	Carl George wrote this book some time ago, but even today, it is a highly relevant and important book for many of today's churches.  The concept of small groups is not exactly a new concept.  Many churches have encouraged this for years.  But few churches even now have turned the concept of small groups into a far reaching and fundamental tool of ministry, outreach, and caring that permeates the entire church mission.  Even today, small groups tend to be a &quot;back burner&quot; concept among many churches.  <br />This book tries to draw a direct relationship between small group ministry and church size.  The theory is that a church can grow only so big and reach only so many people absent a vital and large emphasis on small groups.  George cites a few megachurches as examples of the kind of ongoing growth and changed lives that occur when the church embraces small groups not with a recreational commitment, but with the kind of commitment that comes when something is considered a primary mission of the church.<br />The small group model for church growth is a model that works, not because George says so, but because several churches who have embraced this model are growing beyond many of the ceilings that the vast majority of churches who don't embrace this model can't seem to break through.  Getting their people into small groups, when emphasized and encouraged, allows bigger churches to continue ministering to people and meeting their needs by allowing the congregation to minister to itself and not overtax the staff.  This accomplishes the goal of the church not having to build up a huge staff of paid people to try and meet the needs of a big congregation.  Therefore, allowing church funds to be spent not on an increased staff, but on more relevant activities that are more in line with the mission that God has imparted on the particular church.  Further, small group multiplication allows the church to continue to grow and reach new people in the community in waysthat are non threatening.<br />I did not give the book 5 stars only because the book does not appear to spend a lot of time discussing how a church can really establish a vital small group ministry and structure their staff in an effective way to cultivate it.  Too often, growing churches want to do good things, but do not put the kind of infrastructure in place, whether people or facilities, to administer the programs with excellence.  It's the classic problem of biting off more than we can chew.  The motivations of the church are in the right place in these instances, but without a clear plan in place for administering a major small group ministry, George provides an incomplete strategy for implementing this approach.  This may sound like a minor point, but it isn't.  Ministries that are not undertaken with excellence are ministries that fail to fully fulfill the purpose for which the ministry was created.  Having an administrative infrastructure in place that effectively manages a big small group ministry while also being an infrastructure that is frugal relative to church budgets is clearly one aspect of establishing a ministry with excellence.  And this aspect is not easily addressable and thus, represents a significant challenge to George's model.  It is solvable I believe, but George should have addressed this in more detail, in my view.<br />But clearly, George has hit on something that every church can benefit from if implemented correctly.  At its core, Christianity needs to be about people.  And in order to meet people's needs and transform people into fully devoted disciples of Christ, the church must place just as much a priority on meeting people's needs and providing care and support as it does on spreading the Gospel message.  In fact, I would argue that those two things go hand in hand, and both are strengthened by the other.  Having an active small group ministry that looks for small group solutions for a whole array of congregational concerns andinterests is a proven model for church growth and evangelism, and something George describes very well.  A good book, a good pastoral resource.	2001-01-24
US	50142550	R1PXETY21VG5B3	0805420401	963630731	The Screwtape Letters: Also Includes "Screwtape Proposes a Toast	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Entertaining, insightful	While not enjoying this book as much as Mere Christianity, I found the Screwtape Letters to be a good read and very insightful on many levels.  The Screwtape Letters is an effort by Lewis to address many concerns and issues within the context of a morality play.  Whether it's suffering, casual religion, interpersonal relationship issues, war, or cynicism, Lewis provides compelling insights into the origins and effects of these issues.  In describing in a fictional way why demons encourage or discourage certain things, the reader begins to see how they are being tempted in their own life and the kinds of effects certain actions and thoughts have.  Within this context, Lewis cleverly provides fitting commentaries on people's attitudes and the current state of human affairs relative to their relationship with God.  Assuming that the morality play presented here is valid and that demons are indeed trying to encourage or discourage things in people, I found the overriding theme of this book to be that absent a deep relationship with God and continual reinforcement of Godly values and living in a person's life, a drift away from God and toward harmful attitudes and actions is inevitable.  Lewis clearly tries to demonstrate that there is an absolute good and an absolute evil in this book, and that while good and evil are not always easily discernible, it is in our interests to keep our guard up and not be fooled by the notion that good and evil are defined by our own feelings (which lead to many of the negative consequences described in this book) instead of a transcendent and universal standard upon which terms like &quot;good&quot; and &quot;evil&quot; can be uniformly defined.  This is a message that is more applicable today than it was even when Lewis wrote this book, in my view.  It is therefore highly relevant and applicable to the human condition in the new millenium.	2001-01-24
US	50142550	RJXFGK8JUOGOK	0801021510	607298002	Baker Encyclopedia of Christian Apologetics (Baker Reference Library)	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Comprehensive and Concise Resource	As has been mentioned in prior reviews, this resource is very lengthy because it attempts to cover an almost universal range of topics dealing with Christianity and religion in general.  Because Geisler is among the top apologists and has been for years, he has the kind of unique knowledge required to address the multitude of topics that are covered here, BUT he also has a vast knowledge of other apologetic works and resources that enable him to extensively footnote and reference other works.  Both of these reasons make this book a top apologetic resource that in many ways is unmatched in terms of its comprehensive scope.  <br />I want to make something clear, however.  I don't want people reading the reviews of this book to be intimidated by the size or scope of the book, or the intellect of Geisler.  New Christians who are not extensively versed in apologetics or various theological debates can profit just as much from this book as Christians who have been around the block a few times with apologetics.  The reason I say this is because the comprehensive nature of this book actually makes it MORE reader friendly, not less.  This is because the myriad of topics covered forces Geisler to be very concise in his topical treatment.  Therefore, even a new Christian or sincere seeker who might not feel comfortable trying to digest a 200 page academically natured book on a single topic or two will find the Baker Encyclopedia to be much more their speed because Geisler often confines his analysis of each topic to a few paragraphs or a few pages at most.<br />Having said that, this book is also a vital resource for those seasoned in apologetics.  The main reason for this is not only the narratives that Geisler provides, but just as importantly, the footnotes and references that will help the reader pursue the kind of additional research and analysis on any given topic that Geisler is unable to do here given the topical nature of the book.  These reference notes are invaluable and it is doubtful that the reader could find this kind of reference detail anywhere else given the universal scope of the topics covered.<br />Lastly, I concur with a few other reviews that say that there were a few topics that were not covered.  Personally, I would  liked to have seen more detail relative to the whole issue of whether the resurrection account in the Bible borrowed from other &quot;resurrection&quot; stories in the pagan mystery religions.  The Osiris charge in particular seems to be the current flavor of the month among those trying to discredit the Bible and has been a popular point of attack by the Jesus Seminar.  The Baker Encyclopedia does not address this and this is unfortunate.  There are other resources available which effectively obliterate the Osiris charge, but I had to conduct quite a bit of research to get to these resources because the Baker Encyclopedia was not helpful in this area.  <br />But regardless of this lone issue, the book is certainly worth 5 stars since I recognize that no single book can ever hope to address every last issue or topic related to Christian apologetics.  But this book comes closer than any other that I'm aware of.	2001-01-03
US	50142550	R1OCD3DDLBW4NX	0310375614	111927545	Inside the Mind of Unchurched Harry and Mary	Books	5	79	86	N	N	Informative and Balanced	When looking only at the title of the book, it could be concluded that this book is only a diatribe against non Christians and what motivates them to stay away from God.  But after reading the book, I found that this is not the emphasis of the book at all.  <br />It seemed to me that the book was pretty much addressing two main questions - why are some people suspicious of Christianity and the church, and what can Christians and the church do to respectfully dialogue with these folks and make them feel safe in exploring the claims of Christianity.  Because the book is dealing with these two questions, I found Strobel to be very balanced in assessing both sides.  His treatment of the attitudes and motivations of the unchurched is done respectfully and is generally absent of condemnation.  Having been a self declared atheist for many years, he brings a unique insight into this question and I believe he handles the subject matter with the same respect and gentleness that he would liked to have received from the church during his atheist days.  Likewise, when dealing with the question of what the church can be doing better to reach out to these folks, he is very balanced in his assessment.  In fact, it seemed to me that if Strobel was being critical of anyone in this whole equation, he reserved his strongest criticism for the church in terms of not doing a good job reaching these folks and being unwilling to move beyond traditional forms of worship to establish a more relevant and safe environment which is still Biblically based for the sincere seeker.<br />I think that this book is very insightful in its probing of the attitudes of the unchurched, and I would recommend this book purely on that basis.  It is important that as Christians, we have some level of understanding for how some folks become either indifferent or hostile to our faith.  Having this level of understanding will help us to engage these folks where they are and to hopefully give us an opening to reacha deeper level of understanding on a one on one basis, one person at a time.  But I would also highly recommend this book as a pastoral resource.  I think the section that discusses what the church response should be in reaching out to these folks should be required reading for every pastor in America who is looking to spread the Good News but is having difficulty finding the right formula for effectively reaching out to the secular community.  This is a very good resource.	2000-12-07
US	50142550	R20SSEW569XHQW	0310234697	410592075	The Case for Faith: A Journalist Investigates the Toughest Objections to Christianity	Books	4	7	8	N	N	A solid work	The Case for Faith is a good book that explores in some detail some of the vexing questions often raised about Christianity and life itself.  I thought that the book was well written, easy to follow, well organized, and included a good bibliography which is helpful to the reader who wants to conduct more research into the topics discussed.<br />In particular, I thought that Moreland's contribution was the high point of the book.  This surprised me since I don't always agree with Moreland.  <br />Many of the interviewees provided sound logic and common sense to support their assertions.  Like the Case for Christ, this book mostly succeeds in providing a good defense of the Christian worldview.  And it puts those in opposition to Christianity on the defensive by forcing them not only to discredit Christianity in substantive ways (as opposed to the superficial arguments usually heard) but also challenging them to respond to the same kind of questions Christianity is forced to answer.  This continually puts the non Christian in a quandry since many non Christian belief systems, whether they be atheist or anything else, regularly has to borrow many basics of the human experience and life origins from Christianity in order to even begin to construct their own belief system since their belief system can't explain many of the fundamentals upon which they base their belief system.  <br />I did not give the book 5 stars for a couple of reasons.  First, I was a bit disappointed by the Geisler section.  I have great respect for Geisler, but it seemed as if his section was glossed over a bit, rather than being thoroughly explored.  Secondly, I was also a bit disappointed that Strobel did not explore the issues of slavery and suppression of women.  It is mentioned in passing in the section that discusses the Witch Trials, the Crusades, etc.  But the whole concern about whether the Bible and Christianity supported slavery and the suppression of women are hot topics and strong objections that deserved to be explored.  Having done some research in this area, I personally believe there are many compelling responses to these objections, but if a person based their whole knowledge of these subjects on the Case for Faith, it could be reasonably concluded that these objections are legitimate and that Christianity has no explanation for these things.  It was a mistake for Strobel not to thoroughly explore these issues.<br />Other than the concerns raised above, I do recommend this book for the new Christian, the seasoned Christian, or the non Christian who is sincerely investigating the claims of Christianity with an open heart.	2000-12-04
US	50142550	R2B0WUF12JY5X1	0805420460	338167986	Mere Christianity	Books	5	17	22	N	N	A Classic Apologetic	I give this book 5 stars even though there a couple of things in the book that I don't totally agree with.  Normally, when I like a book but find some things about it that are of concern to me, I will give the book a 4 star rating and explain the concerns that prevented me from giving the book 5 stars.  But I'm not doing that in this case, primarily because the concerns I have are minor in nature and represent an extremely small amount of what Lewis discusses in the book.  So with that explanation out of the way, I'd like to describe the things about the book that I found to be very positive.<br />First, Lewis' writing style is exquisite.  Those who are interested in writing books should study Lewis purely as an education in how to write a thought provoking and engaging book in an exciting literary way.  There are many fine books out on the market, but few can match Mere Christianity in terms of exquisite grammatical presentation.  It was a joy to read a book by an author who not only displays excellence in the subject being discussed, but also commands a high competence level in the language he/she is using to communicate the subject matter.<br />Secondly, the subject matter itself is highly refined and presented in an extraordinarily sensible way.  Lewis was not a pastor or a theologian, he was a layman.  Sometimes, this is to his detriment in his writings, but often, it is to his benefit.  Being a layman espousing the truths of Christianity gives him a unique perspective and insight into the faith itself as well as an insight into the thought processes of non Christians examining the claims of Christianity.  The apologetic that he puts forth in these pages provides a very rare combination of being easy to follow, yet being highly intellectual in its approach.  He builds his apologetic one argument at a time, each argument building upon the last.  And he presents these arguments in impeccably concise language so that he does not bog the reader down in having to sift through many pages to try and reach the point that Lewis is trying to make.  This is often the biggest problem with modern apologetic books.  Many authors today spend a lot of time in their books trying to make the same point in many ways, and by doing so, often dilute their ultimate point in a sea of repetitous arguments.  Lewis makes his points in concise language, and this makes his arguments very persuasive and sharp.<br />Lastly, the high level of logic, intellect, and common sense that buttresses his apologetic builds confidence in the reader that Christianity is a faith that makes sense intellectually.  It is difficult to find a comprehensive non Christian rebuttal to Mere Christianity.  Even some of those who disagree with Mere Christianity and the assertions put forward have admitted that they were humbled by the arguments put forward and compliment Lewis and his intellect.<br />In conclusion, this is a book that I would highly recommend to all Christians not only as a classic apologetic but also because of the exquisite literary style.  I would also highly recommend this to anyone who may be hung up on the philosophical integrity of Christianity.  I would also recommend this book as a very good witnessing tool for those who know somebody who has intellectual concerns about Christianity.  Mere Christianity is a top apologetic book.	2000-12-04
US	50142550	R4UZZOVTFUBNI	0849916550	570017569	He Chose The Nails: What God did to Win Your Heart	Books	5	27	31	N	N	Nicely Done	As I understand it, this book is a composition of a sermon series that Lucado delivered to his church.  I think this would have been quite a sermon series to listen to live.<br />Lucado does a good job of combining everyday examples of life with the imagery of the cross to paint a compelling picture of God's love as demonstrated by sending the perfect lamb of Jesus Christ to live among sinful beings and to die on their behalf only to conquer the grave and be physically resurrected for the world to see.  When I first started reading this book, I was frankly a bit skeptical of Lucado's premise - that the individual components of the cross themselves have meaning in terms of comprehending God's love.  But this book got me thinking about this premise, and reminded me and reenforced within me a timeless truth.  In all creation, God's perfection, beauty, love, and omnipresence are evident if we take the time to look.  The Creator is distinct from the creation, but the creation reflects the Creator.  And while reading Lucado's book, it dawned on me that if we accept this premise, then why can't the nails, wood, thorns, etc of the crucifixion provide insights into God's character if the rest of creation does?  The answer I came to is that Lucado's premise makes sense, and the ideas he puts forth are very compelling within that context.<br />Whether Lucado's ideas in and of themselves can be regarded as theological truth is somewhat open to interpretation.  But in my view, his ideas taken as a whole most definitely support and reenforce a long held theological truth - that God's love knows no competition because it far surpasses anything that human beings are capable of expressing.  God's love can be imperfectly emulated, but it cannot be duplicated.  Lucado's book eloquently speaks to this truth, and provides great comfort for those of us who have recognized His love by accepting Christ.  And the book provides compelling reasons for those who haven't yet accepted Christ toseriously contemplate the love and forgiveness that is waiting for them to experience by coming to faith in Christ.  A very good book.	2000-12-04
US	50142550	R2F4K04O93DUGZ	0310211867	929763623	When God Weeps: Why Our Sufferings Matter to the Almighty	Books	4	20	24	N	N	A Good Read	I had the privilege of hearing Eareckson Tada speak at our church a couple of years ago.  So when I bought this book, I had a good idea of her life story and message.  I found the book to be very powerful and relevant,  since her words spoke not only to her own suffering, but to suffering and  pain generally.  In my view, that makes this book very relevant to most  anyone who may be enduring a difficult time, as well as to anyone who wants  to reach out to those who are suffering but are not totally sure how to do  it.  <br />I did not give the book 5 stars mainly because of the contribution  of Estes.  He had some good things to say in here, but some of his writing  seemed out of step with what Eareckson Tada was trying to address.  One  other thing about Estes - this is just my own reading preference, but when  reading nonfiction, I don't like the writing to be adjective/adverb  intensive, since nonfiction is supposed to be factually based.   Adjective/adverb intensive writing in a nonfiction book comes across to me  as being embellishing at best, inflammatory at worst.  I don't mind authors  using adjectives or adverbs to drive home their points, but when every  other sentence in Estes's portion of the book is ladened with deeply  emotional adjectives and/or adverbs, I found his contribution to be a bit  melodramatic.  And that's a shame, because the essence of what he was  saying was pretty good stuff.  But by embellishing it to such an over the  top extent, I walked away from his writing almost believing that he didn't  trust his own material well enough to let it speak for itself, and I found  this to be a distraction.<br />In summary, because most of the book was  written by Eareckson Tada, I highly recommend the book because I think she  presents a fabulous, yet well grounded, synopsis of her experiences and  what she has learned.  I wish the entire book had been written by her.   With the exception of my concerns about Estes's contribution to this book,  Ibelieve it is a top resource on Christian living that can be relevant to  most anyone at some point in their lives.  I entered into reading this book  hoping that the content of the book would change my outlook on suffering  and those who suffer by making me see things I hadn't seen before and  appreciate things I hadn't appreciated before.  Eareckson Tada's writing  did that, and that is why I am enthusiastically recommending this book  despite my comments about Estes's contribution.	2000-07-12
US	50142550	R1JI7YGOTMTZRM	1565071603	421181585	Encyclopedia of New Age Beliefs (In Defense of the Faith Series, 1)	Books	4	36	43	N	N	Devastating Critique of the New Age	Ankerberg and Weldon have produced a highly detailed examination of several aspects of New Age thought in this book.  In my view, what makes this book good is that it spends a large amount of time quoting from folks  in the New Age movement, rather than simply writing an exclusively  Christian commentary on New Age thought.  By analyzing what New Age leaders  are saying about their own teachings, Ankerberg and Weldon help quell the  notion that they are simply writing an ad hominem attack on the New Age.   In particular, I thought that the section on Eastern gurus was one of the  best commentaries yet written on this phenomenon, precisely because the  chapter includes so many quotes from the gurus themselves that are simply  devastating.  When confronting New Age thought, Christians have the  considerable challenge of getting the discussion out of the clouds and  getting down to the level of how New Age thought can be practically lived  with any real assurance that its claims are true.  It's very hard to get  the discussion to this level precisely because many New Age disciples don't  want to go there.  The one thing about this book that came across loud and  clear without it ever being said is that many folks who become involved in  the New Age don't want a practical spirituality that can be relied upon and  put into everyday living.  They want a dimestore spirituality that doesn't  require them to live by any moral code other than whatever they think is  right at any point in time.  Self divinity sounds nice and it attracts an  awful lot of people to New Age thought, but this book effectively shows  that not only is the concept of self divinity a complete denial of what we  know to be true about the human race, it also tends to be very debilitating  to the New Age disciple once it becomes clear that the realities of the New  Age movement don't fulfill the promises it makes.<br />I did not give the book  5 stars for 2 main reasons.  First, I thought that the authors spent too  much time interjecting the concept of demonic possession or demonic  influence into the discussion.  After a while, this became a distraction to  me while reading the book, and frankly, I think the whole concept was  significantly overemphasized.  Entering the concept of demonic influences  into a discussion with a non Christian is probably the best way to alienate  that person from the joy of Christianity.  Secondly, the one thing I was  hoping to see that I didn't see was an in depth discussion of the latest  New Age craze - nature based spirituality.  Whether it takes the form of  wicca, native american spirituality, or other forms of paganism, there is  not a comprehensive discussion of this area.  It is touched upon in a few  places in the book, but because it's such a hot topic right now, I would  have greatly enjoyed a separate section that was devoted specifically to  this arm of New Age thought and having it thoroughly examined as its own  topic.<br />With the exception of the 2 concerns addressed above, Ankerberg  and Weldon have produced a formidable response to New Age thought.  It is  my hope that as the New Age movement continues to change, the authors will  continue to publish revised versions of this book in order to keep current.	2000-05-24
US	50142550	R9ON9GL84VMSI	0801011426	908372456	When Critics Ask: A Popular Handbook on Bible Difficulties	Books	4	33	35	N	N	A good resource	Geisler/Howe provide a good resource to respond to the kind of objections that regularly surface when it comes to alleged Bible contradictions or errors.  I thought the book was well laid out and logical to follow in  terms of presentation.  I thought that many of the explanations were  adequate, some were exquisite, a few others seemed to fall a bit short.   Overall, I think it's a book that can be repeatedly referred to for  guidance, since objections to the inerrancy of Scripture are always  swirling around even in the midst of sound and compelling rebuttals.  <br />I  did not give the book 5 stars for 2 reasons.  First, I thought that some  (not many) of the explanations offered were a little hollow.  But as I'm  typing this, I can only think of 2 instances where I thought this.   Secondly, there were a few verses in Scripture that were not dealt with in  the book that probably deserved to be addressed due to their controversial  or non crystal clear meaning.  But again, on the whole, I thought this book  was pretty thorough both in the verses it analyzed, and in the analysis  itself.  Not perfect, but a good solid resource.	2000-05-05
US	50142550	R39RL7D8GLYZDZ	0849916437	716203388	Resurrection The Capstone In The Arch Of Christianity	Books	3	40	44	N	N	A little disappointed	Hanegraaff divides his book into 3 sections; defending Christ's physical resurrection, defending the certainty of heaven and hell, and tackling tough questions about what the resurrection will look like.<br />His defense of Christ's resurrection was disappointing.  As a Christian, I came away  from this section a little confused as to who Hanegraaff's intended  audience was.  His defense was at a very top level, and I found it  incomplete.  An informed skeptic could attack this defense by raising more  detailed objections that Hanegraaff did not attempt to address, as well as  raise objections on other fronts that Hanegraaff never gets into.  While  agreeing with what Hanegraaff presented in this section, I was anticipating  a more detailed and comprehensive defense of Christ's resurrection.   Because he didn't do that, I remain confused about the target audience.  I  found little in his defense to bolster the arguments of the seasoned  Christian, or to undermine the arguments of the seasoned skeptic.<br />Section  2 was a little better than section 1, in my view.  While I was still a bit  disappointed by the top level nature of this section, Hanegraaff does  present sound logic and firm Biblical basis to advance his arguments here,  particularly in the area of eternal torment.  While still lacking the kind  of comprehensive treatment I had been hoping for, I found this section to  contain more useful information than section 1.<br />Section 3 was better than  section 1, but not as good as section 2, in my view.  For better or worse,  when scholars attempt to grapple with the issues that Hanegraaff tries to  deal with in this section, an inevitable degree of speculation is in order.   So while Hanegraaff tries to ground his views with Scripture (and does a  pretty good job), I still walked away from that section feeling as if the  answers to these issues won't truly be known until we get to the other  side, because Scripture is not iron clad on many of these questions.   Hanegraaff's views in this section may very well be right, but the reader  should understand that because Scripture does not hit these issues head on,  Hanegraaff's opinions are just that, opinions based on a certain degree of  speculation.<br />Overall, I will consult this book on an occasional basis  when presented with objections from skeptics.  But I would not recommend  that the Christian base their entire apologetic knowledge on this book, nor  would I recommend this book to non Christians that I might witness to.  The  information contained in the book is good for as far as it goes.  In my  view, it did not go far enough, nor dig deep enough to be considered a top  apologetic resource on this topic.	2000-04-30
US	50142550	R22L9SDTX5YNDT	0310219604	938771460	The Case for Christ: A Journalist's Personal Investigation of the Evidence for Jesus	Books	4	14	17	N	N	Very good, not great	I thought the book was a good introductory tool for explaining why Christ makes sense intellectually.  Those who are negative on the book claim that there are holes in the logic, that the book was one sided in its  presentation, and that it raises more questions than it answers.  These  objections are ironic since practically every book that's ever been written  that's been critical of historical Christianity is guilty of exactly the  same things (and in a way that would lap Strobel's work several times  over), and even worse since they are also regularly guilty of contrived  scholarship.  It is noteworthy that those who are critical of the book are  long on anger, but short on specific objections that are based on sound  scholarship.  <br />Strobel is not attempting to answer every objection,  detractors of Scripture regularly have to come up with new objections each  time they're old objections are shot down by the evidence or sound logic.   Strobel is attempting to show in a global sense how the essentials of the  Christian faith can be defended.  Some specific objections are dealt with,  I wish he would have dealt with more.<br />I would also point out that in my  view, this is not a book that appeals to the heart.  There is very little  in the way of testimonial discussion.  It's clearly a book designed to get  people to think about the historic Christian faith and the contrived  scholarship that is regularly the foundation for objections.  Because it  won't answer every question, the book itself does not present an air tight  case - it's not supposed to.  But it should be pointed out that there is a  great deal of literature that addresses Bible difficulties, alleged  contradictions or errors, the uniqueness of the faith, and its historical  origins.  Strobel's work is not intended to rehash what others have already  done.  It's a good book, it could have been improved somewhat, but still a  good book worth reading, IMHO.  It provides a reasonable basis to believe  that the Bible is what it claims to be, and that Christ is who He claimed  to be.  It provides a case that backs up historic Christianity by  harmonizing it with what we know to be true.	2000-01-31
US	50142550	R3A4JBDAKJ06NG	0060616628	217861600	Jesus	Books	1	22	78	N	N	Too many problems, too little time	If Crossan's own standards of scholarship and authenticity were applied to this book, we would conclude that Crossan really didn't write the book because of so little formal corroborating evidence that he did.  This  obviously doesn't make sense when we apply his standards to his own book,  it certainly doesn't make sense to do the same to the life of Jesus as  presented in Scripture, yet that's what he does.  He makes his conclusions  based on tailoring theories and mythical documents written hundreds of  years later than the original Gospels to conform with his preconceived  naturalistic tendencies.  The four Gospels are not discredited through  sound scholarship or manuscript evidence, but by imposing a naturalistic  standard upon them and arbitrarily concluding that they are metaphorical  and not historical.  That's not scholarship, that's an opinion which he  does little to back up through independent evidence.  The Jesus of faith is  the Jesus of history, the mounting evidence showing the reliability of the  Gospels and the implausibility that the Gospel of Thomas or &quot;Q&quot;  can somehow be more authentic is too much for his theory to overcome.  He's  grasping at straws, not to mention mythical documents and admitted theories  that haven't been proven as the entire basis for his work.  There are  several books out on the market which truly devastate Crossan's scholarship  methods as well as his evidential sources.  He creates a secularized Jesus  not because that's where the body of evidence leads, but because that's  what he wants to conclude.	2000-01-31
