US	50143797	R2K4BNHZTVBGCH	0786890037	908407552	Silent Joe	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A New Hero from T. Jefferson Parker	T. Jefferson Parker has given us another hero to root for and one whom I hope he will bring back from time to time so that we can find out he is doing.<br />Joe Trona is a quite remarkable young man.  Scarred for life by a psychotic father while still a baby in his crib, Joe is later adopted by Will Trona and his wife.  Growing up in their loving home, along with the natural children of the Tronas, Joe finds all the emotional, physical and financial support he would never have known had he remained with his natural parents.<br />After graduating from college, Joe joins the Orange County, CA Sheriff's Department just like his adopted father had.  As a young man growing up, Joe developed exceptional skills with firearms and unarmed combat through the martial arts.  Because of these skills and the fact that he possessed the extra authority imbued by his Sheriff Department's badge, he has served as the &quot;back-up&quot; to his father, Will.  After retiring from the Sheriff's Department, the elder Trona turned to politics and his wife's financial status of independent wealth  permitted him to run for county-wide office.<br />During his political career, the elder Trona made many enemies through his battles against over-development.  If ever there was a man in government who could be found to stand in the way of further development of the Orange County countryside, it was Will Trona.  In his battles against the wealthy and powerful, Trona takes his son along and provides him with first hand experience and a bird's eye view of his personal method  of doing business.  But relatively early in this fast-paced novel, Will Trona is gunned down in front of his son and the 24 year old deputy sheriff decides to revenge his beloved father.<br />What I always find exceptional about Mr. Parker's novels is the consistent ability he shows in description of time, place, atmosphere and the personalities of the people he creates as characters for his novels.  SILENT JOE is no exceptionand held me hard and fast from first page to last.<br />While showing a potential for violence, Joe Trona also has a side that is softer and needs nurturing.  While his parents have shown that to him while he became a part of their family, his face, so badly scarred by acid leaves him a perennial social outcast.  To cover the side most scarred, he wears a brimmed hat.  But the technique also calls attention to himself, especially in southern California, where the sun is ever present.  In addition, his case, which received widespread press coverage while he was a child and during his father's trial is well remembered by many who know his family through his adopted father's political career.<br />Parker keeps the interest level high as he introduces a possible kidnapping into the equation, one where Joe is asked to serve as a go-between for a wealthy developer, whose youngest daughter has turned up as a &quot;guest&quot; of her older brother.<br />Throughout the detective work, the revenge seeking and the general plot development, Parker introduces people who turn out to be less than they appear at first meeting.  Almost all of them have one or more fatal flaws that result in the reader siding with Joe Trona.  This ability, to create less than sympathetic main characters, while providing even more vile key role players is what I like about Parker's novel.  And again, his well-developed ability to describe, in some cases, with a minimal use of words, the atmosphere being discussed is what keeps me coming back for more of his novels.<br />I really came to admire Joe Trona for his singleminded devotion to avenging the death of his father.  Parker paints a full-fledged hero for us and despite the fact that Joe Trona is not without his own faults, he grows into his role as a man, a police officer and as a fully realized human being.<br />Jeff Parker has created an admirable and likeable hero in SILENT JOE.  I enjoyed this book immensely and I only hope that Mr. Parker hasthe good sense to bring Joe Trona back for more adventures in Orange County.	2003-09-03
US	50143797	RZOACIY3K80WX	0812575393	139616359	Dead Hand	Books	3	2	3	N	N	A Change in Approach	Harold Coyle, VMI graduate and former armor officer in the US Army has written a group of novels that have captured the loyalty of many readers.  I am among that group of loyal fans who seek out his books and then devour them as soon as I buy them.  For the most part, I have always liked his story lines and the characters he creates.  DEAD HAND, is another of those books that I enjoyed, but found flawed by the all too obvious technical errors that are included within the text.<br />As other reviewers here have noted, Coyle and his editors were delinquent in their fact-checking and this greatly diminished my enjoyment of the story.  Continuing to place the SAS Headquarters of Hereford in Scotland is probably the most egregious error.  Any soldier or hobbyist who knows anything about the SAS will note that mistake and snicker in derision.<br />Where Coyle does a great job with this story line is through the use of his imagination in creating a joint and multi-national force to solve the problem that serves as the plotline for the novel.<br />Basically, Russia, its central government severely weakened by corruption and the huge land mass of the old Soviet Union is faced with a huge dilemma.  The first is that the central government must deal with a renegade general in Siberia who is in control and possession of several ICBM locations.  While that is bad enough, the old Soviet government had built their missile fields with doomsday systems.  Under the assumption that the Soviet government in Moscow might not survive a nuclear exchange with the USA and the UK, they installed \\"dead hand systems\\" in their strategic rocket forces.  Designed to launch even without human intervention, they would destroy the United States and the West that had prevailed in a nuclear war, probably as the result of a first strike.<br />What creates the problem for the Russian government, the democracies in the West and for the men who must disarm this system is that the dead hand system works off seismic shocks.  Originally engineered to launch as a result of the shocks that occurred as part of nuclear detonations elsewhere in Siberia, the system appears to have been activated as the result of the impact caused by a large meteor that has struck earth.<br />Knowing about the system and the renegade general has prompted western military planners to create a multi-national force of elite troops to disarm the most dangerous of the missile fields and the general commanding them.  At the same time, the Russian government in Moscow has dispatched its own troops to terminate the general's command and return the missile field to government control.<br />Coyle does a fine job of building and developing each of the characters.  He includes several from the 2eme Regiment Etranger Parachutiste (2eme REP), the 22nd SAS Regiment, US Army Special Forces and veterans of SPETSNAZ.  These different military organizations ironically share a common mission and Coyle places a great deal of emphasis and descriptive narration on providing the reader with significant details of their planning, the parachute drops, their road marches and so on.  In some cases though, the detail overwhelms the progress of the story and only serves to slow down the pacing of the plotline.<br />Because of his \\"padding\\" of details, this book does not read as quickly as Coyle's earlier efforts.  In addition, there were sections where I was tempted to give up on the story altogether.  I did not and read the novel to completion probably more out of curiosity to see how it ended and which characters survived.<br />Without giving away the ending, I think readers of this novel will be somewhat surprised by the approach Coyle uses in his final denouement.  It is both unusual and effective and it leaves no doubt in the reader's mind that there has been a definitive final outcome.<br />While I cannot rave about this offering from Harold Coyle, I am glad I finished.  I was dismayed at the factual errors, but atthe same time found myself overlooking them as I sought to reach the ending.  Suspense is sporadic, but the ending is well done.  Mr. Coyle has departed from his formulaic retelling of the Dixon family saga with an up and down ride into the world of elite special ops troops.  That makes the book worth investing some time with.	2003-09-03
US	50143797	R1THPSXY8OE2WV	0451208811	41838335	Blood Orchid (Holly Barker)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Barker &amp; Co. Return for a Re-Match	Holly Barker, her dad Ham and her loyal Doberman Daisy return for a reprise of her work and love life in Orchid Beach, Florida.  In this installment, which is set approximately a year after Holly loses the man of her dreams during a bank robbery, Holly finds another guy and that the criminal element has returned to her new home town with a vengeance.<br />To be sure, this is nothing more than a continuation of the previous plot line with some new characters and twists.  In the latest plot, the reader will witness Holly taking flying lessons, landing on a beach, taking off in a less than flight-worthy aircraft and so on.  She also jumps into bed with a new flame, an FBI agent allegedly working undercover in her jurisdiction.  It seems to me as if author Stuart Woods is trying to turn Holly Barker into the female version of Stone Barrington.<br />In any case, the plotline is simple if not expected, the book reads quickly and is just as easily forgotten.  This is truly a beach-read or one for a cold, snowed in afternoon.  It is nothing special, even in the overcrowded detective genre.  It's real saving grace is that it keeps Holly, Ham and Daisy alive as a parallel set of characters to populate the novellas that Stuart Woods puts out between the more enjoyable Stone Barrington series.	2003-07-29
US	50143797	R1B5LHJ05JEWPA	0895261677	314528012	The Final Days: The Last, Desperate Abuses of Power by the Clinton White House	Books	5	44	69	N	N	I hope God Blesses Barbara Olsen!!!!!!!!!!!!	What a terrible and painful irony that this book should be Barbara Olsen's final work because it was the very same Bill Clinton, who as President did absolutely nothing when given the chance to take down Osama bin Laden.  And yet, this book is probably as fine an epitaph as anyone could ever write or conceive.<br />This is a very well documented distillation and revelation of all of the final abuses of power, corruption, pardons, executive orders, outright theft and other felonious behavior by two of the most vile, venal and vindictive people to ever occupy the \\"People's House\\" at 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue in the District of Columbia.<br />Some of the other reviewers have dismissed this book as nothing more than a \\"right wing slam\\" against the Clintons.  They are probably part of the same 42% who elected the thief and liar in the first place and will defend these two depraved criminals till the crack of doom.  What they failed to see is that the late Mrs. Olsen was an incredibly fine writer, who unlike her subjects, was possessed of an extraordinarily high degree of character, honor, integrity and personal courage.  Something that Slick Willie never, ever had.<br />Mrs. Olsen had the uncanny ability to document her case in the minutest detail and this single volume expose is her legacy to us and to the world of journalism.  I say that because Mrs. Olsen was tragically killed when the airliner she was flying on was crashed into the Pentagon by the same terrorist fanatics who attacked the WTC in NYC.  Courageous to the end, she called her husband several times to keep him and the nation informed as to what was happening and it was that courage, that grace under pressure that makes her a true Patriot, a hero and an outstanding American.  Something neither Slick or Hillary will ever qualify to be called.<br />The really outstanding service that this book provides is the revelation of additional debauched conduct by the power couple that was never released by the mainstream media and the reason for that is obvious.  As Bernard Goldberg (himself a liberal) points out in his current bestseller BIAS, the maninstream media is so biased that they would never totally hatchet their darling power couple.  This deliberate failure on the part of supposedly professional journalists is despicable.  Barbra Olsen, an attorney in the Justice Department and the Senate was a truer, more professional \\"journalist\\" than Dan Rather, Peter Jennings, Tom Brokaw or Charlie Gibson could ever hope to be.<br />This book could be called a labor of love.  It is so because Barbara Olsen loved freedom and the United States.  She loved and embraced individual liberty and she held fast to her principles that the United States of America was, is and must always remain a nation of laws.  The Clintons abused that notion from start to finish and it begs the question: if Bill Clinton lost his law license for 5 years as a result of his vile deeds and obvious lies, why didn't Hillary?  After all, she was the co-president and just as culpable in the misconduct that permeated the White House during the 8 year Clinton \\"reign.\\"<br />What this book also does so magnificently is point out how the American people could be so blind and uncaring about all these crimes and the fact that the press 'white-washed' most of them.  It is particularly saddening that much of what we learn here comes to us as a \\"dying declaration\\" from a woman so full of life, honesty, dignity and love of country that her contributions are yet to be accurately measured.<br />Every calumny uttered by Hillary about \\"vast right wing conspiracies\\" rings shrill or hollow when the reader learns of her perfidy during the couple's final days at the White House.  What is especially frightening is that the people of my former home state New York, were SO UNBELIEVABLY STUPID as to buy into her \\"I am a victim\\" act that they elected her the junior Senator from the state, thereby giving her a public platform to continueto spin lies, twist the truth and spew venom at people who disagree with her.<br />Thousands of people died on 9/11; one of the real tragedies is that Barbara Olsen was one of them.  While her husband will grieve for her for years, the rest of us have lost a true friend and defender of freedom.  That loss will leave a large hole to fill.  Had she lived, I am sure that Mrs. Olsen would have continued to investigate and expose the nefarious behavior of NY's junior Senator.  We can only thank the God that Hillary secretly reviles that there was a Barbara Olsen who had the courage to stand up in the face of tyranny and to expose that tyranny and corruption for what it really was - SLEAZE.<br />My heart goes out to Ted Olsen and the rest of his family as well as to Barbara Olsen's.  All Americans who love liberty will miss her.  I can't say the same for Bill and Hillary.<br />Paul Connors	2002-01-29
US	50143797	R28UGTN5CQZXPU	0671023209	118279752	Transfer of Power	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Well Done, Fast Paced and an Excellent Sequel	In books and in movies sequels are a tough row to hoe.  With successful book or movie ventures, sequels invariably wind up compared to the first effort and in all too many cases, the second effort winds up compared less than favorably.  Fans of Vince Flynn's first effort need not worry.  This book is one of the best sequels to come along in a long time and is certainly one of the better efforts in the techno-thriller genre.<br />  In TRANSFER OF POWER, the author reprises his main character from &quot;Separation of Power&quot; and provides all the plot elements, characters, scenery, technical detail (albeit there are several noticeable and/or glaring technical and factual errors) that readers found in Flynn's introductory novel.  The pacing starts slow and reintroduces the reader to Mitch Kruse (the working name for Flynn's main character) and the other main characters in this installment's story line.  It is an effective technique that provides additional detail without bogging down the reader who is familiar with the theme.<br />  In this novel, terrorists actually succeed in taking over the White House and at the very last minute, the President is whisked to safety in an underground bunker by his Secret Service detail.  The remainder of the story involves the interaction between the Vice President (an incompetent toady who aspires to the Oval Office himself), his key aide (who is nothing more than a vainglorious obstructionist) and the Director of the CIA, Senior FBI officials, the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff and lower ranking military officers who are tasked with rescuing the President and his party.<br />  Flynn does a very fine job of detailing the processes that take place during the deliberation on issues of monumental importance and not a stone is left unturned.  While he spares the reader the extraneous detail and minutiae, it is obvious that national security matters have wide ranging consequences.  National and international considerations areall covered and Flynn introduces international intelligence and law enforcement considerations into the mix with an acute awareness and understanding of the interplay between nations and their interests.  Mr. Flynn writes with an almost insider's knowledge of the workings of the highest levels of government and he moves from character to character, scene to scene and episode to episode with remarkable ease.<br />  I make these comments without giving away too many of the plot elements or characterizations because this is a very fastpaced and well done thriller.  With the exception of some minor military details, Flynn covers all the bases quite well.  If you're looking for a quick, exciting and satisfying thecno-thriller, then read TRANSFER OF POWER.  You won't be disappointed and in fact, after finishing this installment, you'll be out looking for his next.  Flynn is an author with all the hallmarks of a future Clancy.  Hopefully, his publishers will give him the backing and advertising he needs to allow his books to succeed.  Based on what I have read so far, he certainly deserves to be up there.	2002-01-15
US	50143797	R2AUB92NMEXR58	0380731606	286740825	The Price of Power	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Well Done and Thoughtful Sequel	James W. Huston has succeeded where most writers of sequels do not.  He has managed to craft a well thought-out and entertaining sequel that makes the reader ask those famous &quot;what if?&quot; type questions.<br />    In The Price of Power, Huston reprises all of the characters from his debut novel.  In the process he gives them more life, more personality and more detail to hold the reader's attention.<br />   In this installment, the author has the President of the United States serve as the convening authority for the Court Martial of the Admiral who led a task force to rescue Americans held hostage by Indonesian pirate/terrorists.  The President, a weak leader with plummeting ratings faces the prospect of impeachment when he orders the Navy brass to court-martial its latest hero, an Admiral who followed the orders of Congress (rather than his or the Pentagon's) when they issued a heretofore little known of Letter of Reprisal that authorized the Navy to go after the enemy in his own lair.<br />   Throughout this book, Huston asks very interesting moral and legal questions.  He raises interesting constituional issues as well, especially for those Americans in uniform, whose very service oath is not to the nation, its people or the President, but to the Constitution itself.  As those of us who have worn the uniform (or are still wearing it) know, the oath of enlistment or commissioning opens with &quot;I _______do solemnly swear that I will support and defend the Constitution of the United States against all enemies, foreign and domestic.  That I will bear true faith and allegiance to the same..&quot;<br />    The oaths we take are a serious matter to most of us.  Our loyalty is not to a leader, the people we defend or to the nation itself; it is to the Constitution.  The reason for that is simple; it is the Constitution, that genius of a document that defines who we are as a people and a nation.  And in this novel, Huston does a masterful job  of giving us veryreal examples of how the Constitution exists in all of our daily lives.  <br />    True, the author sets these serious questions in the arena of foreign, military, legislative and political affairs and yet, these are questions that could in fact happen in real life.  After all, the United States, as the last superpower faces a multitude of challenges on a daily basis and unlike other countries, where dictators rule or the people have no real say, our system, with it executive, legislative and judicial balances must take into consideration public opinion and the desires of a very diverse population.<br />    Mr. Huston covers all the areas of political and military intrigue with a surprising level of knowledge and a grasp for how Washington really works.  This is a fast paced thriller with a highly developed plot that asks all the important questions.  If you are at all interested in how the Congress, the White House and the armed forces operate within an ever changing world arena, then read this book.  And unlike what one reviewer said about this being right-wing trash, read this novel with an open mind for the real possibilities.  The author asks (and answers) some very provocative questions.<br />Paul Connors	2001-08-13
US	50143797	R1INCIWXNQXTFG	0312969414	181104665	Fortunes of War	Books	5	4	7	N	N	Another Outstanding Hit by A True Master!!!	Well, I read 2 out of 3 of Stephen Coonts' most recent novels out of sequence, but immensely enjoyed them both!   I rated HONG KONG at 5 stars and now can do the same for FORTUNES OF WAR.  Both novels deserve the accolades and anyone who disagrees needs to go back and re-read them both to see what it is they missed.<br />    Once again, Coonts has created a believeable story line with well developed characters.  These folks are not cardboard cut-outs.  They are people with pasts, with reasons for living and strong survival instincts.  This is also about war and the horrific possibilities it brings (not just to those of us who fight them, but to everyone else in the world as well).<br />    Coonts' scenario involves a build-up of Japanese military power and their air and land occupation of the sparsely populated and even more sparsely garrisoned Siberia.  Although nominally ruled from Moscow, this area of Russia is at least 7 time zones away and Japan, much as she did in the 1930s is facing a shortfall in oil and other natural resources.  To meet this need, she attacks a weaker (but larger neighbor) in hopes of establishing control over Russian oilfields in the Far East.<br />    Coonts' main character this time out is really a combination of several people.  The indefatigable Jake Grafton is nowhere to be seen.  The American hero is Colonel Bob Cassidy, a fighter pilot's fighter pilot.  A career officer who was widowed and made childless through the death of his wife Sweet Sabrina and his son Robbie in a car accident, he has nothing but his career.  Since Russia after the fall of the Soviet Union has given up much of its military power (and cannot pay for what little it still has), Japan has easy early pickings in Siberia.  It is up to Bob Cassidy and a select few others to give Russia the chance it desperately needs to survive.<br />    Russia is led by an insane dictator.  He is part businessman, part Stalin and part Hitler.  It is he who refuses to consider realities and when he finds out that Russia still has a small stock of nuclear weapons, he threatens Japan with their use.  But slow down there pardner!!!  There's a little surprise in store for President Kalugin.  Japan also has nukes.  In contravention of their post-war constitution, the rightist government has developed their own and threatens the Russians back.<br />   Later in the book, as the spectre of nuclear war grows, the President of the USA realizes that limiting such a conflict to just Japan and Russia will be impossible.  He and others see the possibility of the end of the world and begin to take action to prevent such a horror.<br />    With American mercenary pilots flying for Russia (like a modern day version of the &quot;Flying Tigers), and heroic Russian figures like fighter pilot Major Yan Chernov and sub Captain Pavel Saratov, the story moves forward at a breakneck pace.  Despite the potential for disbelief in a novel like this, Coonts makes all of it seem plausible an in fact, quite possible.  There is never a dull moment in this book; Mr. Coonts does an especially effective job of keeping this storyline moving at a rapid fire pace.<br />    Whether he's dealing with senior Russian leaders in Moscow, Americans in Washington or the combined Russian/American fighters on the edge of the battle area, all of the characters seem like people you could meet in everyday life.  However, one of the most truly interesting is neither American nor Russian.  Japanese Air Force Captain Jiro Kimura has a foot in both worlds.  Raised in Japan, he is a graduate of the US Air Force Academy and a close friend of Bob Cassidy.  His loyalties and emotions are torn from day one of the war because he knows the war itself is wrong and that his closest friend and mentor is flying for the other side.  It is a dilemma most of us hope we will never face.<br />    Despite the constant back and forth of this story and the episodic nature of the scenes, Mr. Coonts does an absolutelyfantastic job of tying all the disparate pieces together.  Throughout it all, he keeps the tension high and the pace right on schedule.  Every once in a while, the reader will have to stop to catch his breath and that's how I like these novels to read.  I like it when I finish and they make me say WOW!  Well, &quot;Fortunes of War&quot; is no different and I really enjoyed it.  This book, like all of the ones produced by Mr. Coonts always leave me wanting more.  <br />    Luckliy for me and the rest of his legions of loyal fans, his latest Jake Grafton novel &quot;AMERICA&quot; will be in bookstores on August 12, 2001.  So my wait won't be too long, but it'll still be one filled with anticipation.<br />   This was a great temporary departure from Jake Grafton and all the other characters like Virgil Cole and Toad Tarkington.  After getting into this book, I actually didn't miss them and that just goes to show that Mr. Coonts is not a one character novelist.  I think that's one of the truest tests of a novelist. In this genre Stephen Coonts has no peer.  I recommend all of his books without reservation.<br />Paul Connors	2001-07-09
US	50143797	R10XZKFHE9QU1O	0446603961	241932975	Extreme Denial	Books	4	14	15	N	N	A Page Turner From Start to Finish!!	This book by David Morrell is a winner!  It combines all of the best ingredients of a spy thriller, a mystery, a love story and a police procedural.  Morrell successfully combines several disparate characters to create an interesting mix of people who all contribute valuable pieces to the story and all of these different personalities are a piece of the pie that makes this book so enjoyable.<br />   Fans of Morrell's other well wrought and devised plots and characters will like the \\"good folks\\" they meet within the pages of this novel.  The author's usual adeptness and pacing and creating tension are well honed in this novel as well.  This is one of those thrillers that grabs the reader from the beginning and holds his/her attention right through the final denouement.  Hardly a page goes by that the tension is raised to an almost fever pitch and then, in the interest of keeping the story flowing, is released somewhat.  The good guys may get off the hook for the moment, but the respite is only temporary.  The evil they face may retreat, but rest assured, it will return.<br />   This is a really great book for the reader who is snow-bound or on the beach.  A great rainy day, housebound  read, DO NOT start it late at night unless you plan on taking the next day off.  With \\"Extreme Denial,\\" Morrell proves once again that he is a master of this genre (really a combination of several) and at the top of his form.  New readers of Morrell will also find this book a great introduction to this author and after reading this story, I am sure you'll want to hunt down and read all of the installments in his extensive backlist ...P>   I recommend this book to all fans of thrillers and mysteries.  Give it a look; you won't regret it.<br />Paul Connors	2001-07-04
US	50143797	ROK18L78L8839	0811717003	989898433	Street Without Joy (Stackpole Military History Series)	Books	5	104	110	N	N	Washington Should have Heeded This Book's Message	This is the masterpiece that introduced Bernard B. Fall to the elite of the US political, diplomatic and military decision makers who made the fatal and tragic error to involve the United States in the internal deliberations of Viet Nam and her people after the ened of the French colonial period in Indo-China.<br />    While many in Washington in the early 1960s claimed to have read this book, obviously, very few heeded its message.  Had they done so, it would seem that the United States, despite all its arrogance, might have avoided the quagmire that Viet Nam became and the multitude of deaths that occurred as the result of our hubris.<br />   Published in 1961 (more than 4 years before the beginning of the US build-up in SE Asia), Fall provided his readers with an exceptionally strong historical and political analysis of the region, its people and their leaders.  Again, the Washington elite seemed to have disregarded the quality of the material and the skill of the messenger as they barged head-long into our longest and most divisive war.  It was one that would ultimately cause America to question itself and to cause the American people to question the honesty and integrity of their leaders.  That could have been avoided had more people heeded the message contained within the covers of Fall's outstanding treatise.<br />    To be sure, Fall's loyalties were divided and often conflicted.  Born and raised in France, he came to the USA after WW II to study.  He first saw Viet Nam as a Fulbright scholar.  He returned many times and became a recognized expert in the cultural, political and economic realities of the region.  He knew Ho Chi Minh and Vo Nguyen Giap personally and had great admiration for their ability to unify and motivate the Viet Minh against the French Expeditionary Corps and later, the armed forces of the most powerful nation on earth.  But, he also respected and admired the courage and professional ablities of French soldiers fighting for a cause fewat home cared about.  At the end of the supply and communications lines, the French Army in Indo-China was mired in a war they had little control over and governed by successive regimes in Paris that had no clue as to what might be needed to effectively and successively defeat the Communist Viet Minh.  Despite all these failings, Fall never lost sight of the fact that the soldiers from metropolitan France did their best for a lost cause and a populace at home who cared less.<br />    After the French defeat at Dien Bien Phu in May 1954, France realized that continued attempts to hold onto Indo-China were futile.  They eventually left, only to be replaced by the United States as the benefactor for the nominally democratic republic of Viet Nam, which had established itself south of the 17th Parallel.  American arrogance and pride of position surpassed anything before by the French and the proof in the pudding is that we heeded none of the lessons offered in this fine book or others coming from on-scene observation.<br />    Much as in his outstanding successor volume on the Battle of Dien Bien Phu entitled HELL IN A VERY SMALL PLACE, Fall doesn't miss a thing as he writes of the end of France's empire in Indo-China.  The key personalities are all here, as well as the battles that undid the French military position in the region.  His descriptions are accurate and unbiased, although on occasion they do carry a melancholy tone as he reveals the thoughtlessness of the French commanders and colonial administrators in the region.<br />    If you want to read a single volume that will lead you to an understanding as to how the United States could have made such a colossal error in its thinking by choosing Viet Nam as a place to make its anti-Communist stand, then you need to read this book.  Like its companion volume on Dien Bien Phu, it is a must for any serious student of Viet Nam and the war that drained the best from two of the world's most modern and professional armies.  This book is also must reading for teachers of recent American and European history because the events of the late 1940s through the late 1950s were instrumental in what followed in the 1960s and 70s.<br />   If you really care about the hows and whys of America's part in the tragedy of the Viet Nam War, then you MUST read &quot;Street Without Joy.&quot;<br />Paul Connors	2001-07-04
US	50143797	R2BYCVR0ICVO1X	0451197429	934617707	The Disappearance	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Well Thought Out, Well Done Legal Mystery	Grisham stand aside!  This is a legal thriller and murder mystery/police procedural rolled into one taut, tidy and well written novel.  J.F. Freedman has crafted another finely wrought mystery and courtroom drama that never falters for a minute.  While this was my first book by the author since reading AGAINST THE WIND five or six years ago, all of the reasons I liked that book came back to me with this one.<br />   Freedman's main character is Luke Garrison, the former up &amp; coming DA for Santa Barbara County, CA.  But after sending an innocent man to San Quentin's gas chamber (and later finding out the man was wrongly executed) he leaves his home town for a subsistence level law practice in northern California where he brilliantly defends the kinds of creeps he used to prosecute.  An old friend, a retired judge from a historic California family approaches him and asks him to take what appears to be an open and shut kidnapping murder case. Luke at first says no and then relents and investigates his future client.<br />The man facing another death sentence is a popular and handsome local news anchor who is on his way up in the TV news business.  Unfortunately, the heinous nature of the crime and the fact that the dead 14 year old is the daughter of his boss, a wealthy and powerful media magnate makes the case against Joe Allison all the more damning.<br />Luke investigates and begins to prepare his case.  Along the way, his opponents vilify him, try to buy him off and even kill him.  But just like the Energizer bunny, he just keeps going and going.  While Joe Allison is less than an exemplary defendant and his moral character leaves a great deal to be desired, Luke presses on in an uphill battle to defend a man he believes is innocent while at the same time, finding the real killer.<br />Mr. Freedman uses some very obvious plot gimmicks, but he uses them very, very effectively and his timing of their use is exemplary.  Although some might think the gimmickry andthe ultimate outcome formulaic, I thought the entire package was well balanced and neatly wrapped.  The suspense level is kept high and the jeopardy faced by the defendant and his lawyer becomes increasingly more heavy.  And as I said earlier in this review, all of the pieces of &quot;Against the Wind&quot; that made that book so enjoyable are here as well.<br />This is a superior book in this genre and while Grisham's stories continue to run out of steam and turn flat, J.F. Freedman's are fresh and original and well worth the reader's time.  Having read the two titles mentioned here, I now intend to go out and buy &quot;House of Smoke,&quot; &quot;Key Witness&quot; and &quot;Above the Law,&quot; which also reprises Luke Garrison in a sequel to The Disappearance.<br />This book has all of the best of the best in this genre.  You won't be disappointed when you finish the last page and I am glad that Mr. Freedman has chosen to keep the character alive in another installment.	2001-06-28
US	50143797	R1PWFI3JBOCH9L	0425178587	696766183	Rules of Engagement	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Outstanding Debut Novel!!	This is an outstanding debut novel!  Fans of various techno-thrillers, espionage and mystery novels will love this book because it encompasses the best of all os these genres.  The author Gordon Kent is really a father-son writing team with a list of common interests, not the least of which is shared service in the United States Navy.<br />    This book contains a well-thought and delivered story line that is based in the history of the Persian Gulf War as well as in the imagination of the authors.  I am a very critical reader and as a veteran and military  historian, consider myself fairly knowledgeable on what happened and what is possible.  The authors, aware  that there are a great number of readers with military and intelligence experience have constructed a story line that is part military novel and part murder mystery.  It is a very effective combination and one that I found entirely plausible.  I think I was able to do so because the authors did not stretch credibility beyond the degree where most readers are willing to suspend disbelief.  This is a novel that readers could imagine being possible in the real world.<br />    Although the novel is a military mystery, the authors have done a fine job of developing the main characters, especially young Alan Craik, a naval officer who sets out to find out who killed his father, a Navy Commander and commanding officer of a A-6E Intruder Squadron in the days leading up to the war in the gulf.  Throughout the plot, the writers provide additional characters that add to the depth of the story and these figures too, are well fleshed out and their presence is logical and necessary to move the story along.<br />    There is a real villain in this story and he too, is well painted.  As I read this novel and met all its characters, I marveled at the real talent I found between the book's covers.  To be honest, I was actually very surprised that this was a first novel.  My reason: it is so well done that it reads like a work produced by a writer with many books behind him.  To find such well-written books and then, to find out that the book is a first effort, is a rare treat indeed.  While I realize that this book is a collaborative effort, I still enjoyed it immensely and respect the talent of the team that produced it.<br />Whoever Gordon Kent is has won me as a fan.  I don't know what their next project is, but I do know that whatever it might be, I look forward to reading it.  Gentlemen, whoever you are and wherever you might be, keep up the great work!  I am sure that I speak for all who will read this book and appreciate its quality when I say, \\"give us more.\\"<br />Bravo Zulu!<br />Paul Connors	2001-06-11
US	50143797	R13L3P9ZWX2LWM	0061098019	951535361	H.M.S. Unseen	Books	3	5	6	N	N	An Improvement Over His Previous Works	HMS UNSEEN is a large improvment over Patrick Robinson's previous two novels, NIMITZ CLASS and KILO CLASS.  Despite the supposed assistance of retired Royal Navy Admiral Sandy Woodward, those books were rife with technical, factual and historical errors that dramatically reduced the plausibility and enjoyability of the stories and the novels themselves.  I rated them as fairly as I could, but it was obvious that Robinson had not done his homework.<br />    In this installment, which reprises many of the previous characters, Robinson brings back the Iraqi terrorist and submarine commander, Benjamin Adnam.  Commander Adnam, although an Iraqi agent for years, finds himself on the short list of people to meet Allah at the hands of Saddam Hussein.  Successfully avoiding execution, he flees Iraq and offers his services to its arch-enemy, Iran.  This scene, while fairly well written seems implausible, given the enmities each country feels for the other and the long-standing hatreds left over from the eight year Iran-Iraq War.<br />   Adnam's plan is to steal a very quiet diesel-electric submarine from the Royal Navy and convert it to fire SAM missiles.  Robinson's descriptions of the planning and execution of the theft is meticulous, but also highly unlikely because the entire class of four submarines have been sold to Canada and they are no longer in reserve with the Royal Navy.  Despite this factual error, Robinson continues along with his story line and while it stays at sea, or at the National Command levels of both the UK and the USA, it moves along quickly.  Robinson provides a closer look at Adnam's feelings and motivations that in some cases almost paints a sympathetic figure.  However, he always returns to his starting point and reminds his readers that Adnam is a terrorist and a mass murderer.<br />    There's a bit of the jingoist in Robinson's writings and it is obvious he is an admirer of the USA and the UK.  That's not a bad thing, but he also portrays lessernations as somewhat less than notable.  Obviously, Iran and an Iraq are painted as rogue states (which they are) and deserving of nothing but contempt.<br />   As in his past books, Robinson spends FAR TOO MUCH TIME telling his readers what and where his heroes eat their gourmet meals.  This is tiresome and detracts from the forward progress of the story.  It is also quite obvious that Robinson is probably an admirer of fine living and can't help himself; he has to tell his readers how much he knows about food and wine.  On that score, all I can say is this:<br />    &quot;Patrick, if you want to do that, why don't you write restaurant reviews for the NY TIMES?&quot;<br />    This was a mildy entertaining read if you have nothing else at hand or because you want to see where the author takes his recurring characters.  For better pure submarine action, I still prefer and recommend MICHAEL DIMERCURIO, author of THREAT VECTOR, BARRACUDA FINAL BEARING, PIRANHA FIRING POINT and so on.  Mr. DiMercurio is a US Naval Academy graduate with an MIT engineering masters degree and a former submariner.  He doesn't need Sandy Woodward's assistance to write his novels.  He lived the role of submarine officer and now writes about.  He writes well about the things and people he knew.  <br />    Patrick Robinson can only conjure up stories from his vast imagination and how he would like the world to be.  There is a difference.  If you haven't discovered Michael DiMercurio, I heartily recommend his novels and he has another due out this fall.  His entire backlist is available here at Amazon and in most good bookstores.  Once having read both authors, you'll be able to tell whose accounts are more plausible and ultimately, more enjoyable.<br />Paul Connors	2001-06-06
US	50143797	R1RINPKN6G13E5	0312870426	102898589	Tiger Cruise	Books	3	25	26	N	N	Decent Debut	This is a decent debut by a former USN surface warfare officer.  It is a quick read with a fairly plausible plot taken from today's headlines dealing with piracy in and around the Malacca Straits and the waters off Indonesia.<br />   The author sets the story on board an American destroyer on its way home from the Persian Gulf and the Indian Ocean. On board are the crew and some dependents, hence the name Tiger Cruise.  The author provides a dedicated and professional US Navy commanding officer and an equally dedicated and ruthless terrorist and pirate.  Along the way, he also introduces the Royal Australian Navy, its SAS and other assorted characters.<br />    Setting, scene, plotline and pacing are all here.  However, there is the feel of too raw a story line.  There is at best, minimal character development and some of the macho behavior is little more than a cliche.  The all inclusive character list is also somewhat stilted.  But if you're of the school that Americans are always right, always win and always get the girl, then you'll like this quick read.<br />    This is not a real masterpiece of its kind.  It's a decent read for an afternoon on the beach or if you're rained in.<br />Paul Connors	2001-06-06
US	50143797	RS3SB6YH1HT2V	0446608815	373226516	Pop Goes the Weasel (Alex Cross)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Fast Paced, But Not Always Plausible	This is the fifth book by James Patterson with Washington DC police detective Alex Cross as the main character.  A very, very quick read, many of its plot gimmicks are just that, gimmicks and not always believeable.<br />   In this installment Alex Cross is called upon to solve a string of murders that initially do not look like serial killings. Then, they do and he is off and running trying to prevent more of the same.  The premise Patterson uses here is that the murders are being committed by a mid-level diplomat assigned to the British embassy in Washington.  The murders, part of a sophisticated computer game played by four members or former members of British intelligence is played on a global scale.  It makes for an interesting plotline and almost works.<br />    However, as another reviewer here stated, too many coincidences fall into place and Alex Cross is able to easily put the pieces together to solve these heinous crimes.  This is probably not the best of the Alex Cross novels for that reason.<br />    Yes, Patterson has all of the pacing that existed in his past entries in the series, but the ending was just too pat and less than believable.  This is definitely a beach book or one for a quick airplane flight.  Not a truly memorable installment, but I'd bet they'll still make a movie out of it anyway.<br />     I wouldn't NOT read this entry in the series, but I also wouldn't expect the same quality of taut writing and interesting story found in KISS THE GIRLS.  Mr. Patterson may have run out of steam with this one.	2001-04-11
US	50143797	R2EWELE0SOC8TG	0380802201	277768065	Red Sky at Morning	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Not As Implausible As It May At First Seem	This is first and foremost an escapist political thriller.  That being said, Mr. Garrison has fashioned a high speed, emotionally tense and well thought out (and plausible) story in which a renegade Red Chinese Admiral uses a force of 100 diesel electric submarines to invade the Big Apple.<br />    When I first read the premise, I said, &quot;COME ON!!!  NO WAY.&quot;  Then I stopped and suspended disbelief and my knowledge of the current strength of the Red Chinese Navy.  Right now, the Chinese Navy does not have 100 submarines; they don't even have a total of 100 ships that could cause real consternation to the U.S. Navy in a sea battle.  They do have some capability in submarines, both nuclear and conventional, but none like those depicted in this book.  That being said, and if the reader can get past that real world info, then this book becomes an entertaining and high speed roller coaster ride.<br />    There are some interesting and not so well hidden personality similarities in this book that amused me.  The Mayor of NYC is named Rudy Mincarelli and possesses all of the key traits of the current mayor, Rudy Giuliani.  He is one of the heroes of this book as he tries to keep the Federal government from trying to retake NYC (specifically Manhattan) by force.<br />    The key players in this book are some patriotic New Yorkers who do all they can to foil the plot of the renegade Chinese Admiral.  Admiral Tang Li is no madman.  He is well educated (Columbia University, the US Naval War College and others) and comes from a distinguished Chinese family.  His grandfather was with Mao on The Long March, his father is a wealthy and successful businessman in the NEW CHINA and Tang Li has excelled as a sailor and leader of men.<br />    However, Tang Li realizes that the majority of Chinese are still impoverished and he fears civil war.  He fears the break up of the China he knows and loves and he wants Taiwan back within the fold.  By taking NYC and holding it hostage,he hopes to divert internal dissent, reunite the people and restore The Middle Kingdom.  He also hopes to make himself over as the new Emperor for China.  He wants that role and he expects the world to pay him tribute.  NYC is a very vital stepping stone in his process.<br />    Garrison has done a fine job of injecting humor, pathos and NY smartass comments into his story.  This novel is like a runaway train and the reader will want to know just how quickly NY reasserts itself and send this maniac packing.  For the average thriller reader, this is an easy read and one they will enjoy.  For those with some naval expertise, the suspension of disbelief will be more difficult.  However, if they can get past some of the more glaring technical mistakes, then this book is one that almost any thriller fan will enjoy.<br />    If you live in and around the NY metro area, this book is especially enjoyable because the author uses so many recognizable names, landmarks and locations.  Give it a try.	2001-03-23
US	50143797	R1AIPWFR77ST2E	0786863706	871273294	The Job	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Tough to Like, But Resourceful Main Character/A Quick Read	The main character in this book is from the get-go, tough to like.  As the novel continues, he screws up by the numbers and gets himself into deeper trouble.  He is one of those men who really doesn't stop to smell the flowers and in the process, misses all the details of life that are important to him.<br />    As the book opens, Ned Allen is a Regional Sales Manager for a computer magazine.  He is living the yuppie dream without the ability to pay the bill.  He has a beautiful young wife who loves him, but who also accuses him of not communicating or sharing his fears, hopes and aspirations.  As we get to know Ned, it seems that the only redeeming character trait that he has is his loyalty to the people who work for him.<br />   As the book continues, Ned plans on becoming a bigwig at his magazine after a German conglomerate takes over.  However, plans don't work out, the Germans flip the company quickly (to the competition, no less) and the new buyer decides to quickly close the magazine.  Ned is out of work and almost as quickly, out of his home and marriage, when a night of drunken carelessness leaves him with the telltale marks of illicit sex.  Within hours, it seems Ned is not only jobless and homeless, but penniless as well.<br />    As he grows desperate, an old high school friend seems to step in to the rescue.  But just remember, when things appear to be too good to be true, they generally are.  Ned is hired to market a private equity fund.  He quickly comes to realize that all is not as it appears to be.  Just as quickly, he finds that his high school buddy is more sinister than altruistic and Ned realizes that his friend has him in a deadly and vice-like grip.<br />    The author Douglas Kennedy, has done a very fine job of capturing all of the tension, fear and emotion  that Ned feels as he realizes that his predicament may be inescapable.  But as other readers of this finely plotted and paced thriller will tell you, Ned Allen, not always likeable as aperson, is more resourceful than we would suspect.<br />    Kennedy paces this story at just the right speed to move Ned along from one predicament to another.  The reader finds himself beginning to sympathize with Ned and hope that he finds a way out.  Because, despite his failings as an employee and a husband, Ned Allen has really done nothing to merit the problems that have been heaped on his plate.<br />    I enjoyed this book.  Mr. Kennedy does a very effective job of fleshing out his characters and although I did not like Ned too much at the beginning of the book, he reminded me of John Grisham's main character in THE FIRM by book's end.  This is a fast read that gets faster as the story progresses.  To be sure, it is not Tolstoy, but it is an entertaining look at the world of magazine publishing, sales, and some of the shadier and more sordid sides of investment banking and high finance.  There is also a well wrought description of the money laundering process and how Ned is sucked into it as an unwitting dupe.<br />    All in all, an entertaining, quick read.  Give it a try.	2001-03-23
US	50143797	R21EUK1P8EGH3Z	0553576623	113606987	Miracle Cure	Books	4	0	0	N	N	If It Seems Too Good To Be True, It Usually Is......	Well, this is another of the fast paced medical thrillers that fans of Michael Palmer have come to expect and as usual, the good doctor delivers.<br />  In this novel, author and medical doctor Michael Palmer delivers up a character with a set of problems that have combined to almost destroy a once promising medical career.  Dr. Brian Holcomb is one of those doctors you don't hear too much about; he is an MD who has had his medical license revoked as a result of his addiction to prescription pain-killers and his illegal writing of prescriptions for himself to feed that addiction.<br />  After we first meet the former Dr. Holcomb, newly divorced and working at a car rental counter, we discover a sympathetic character.  Palmer has a talent for painting these pictures and despite the fact that every reader knows that Brian's situation is one of his own making, he is still someone we feel for.  We also hope he gets his license back.<br />  Eventually, Brian does get his license back.  However, it is conditional and he is kept under strict observation.  His medical skills have not degraded and he proves his worth to the hospital that has taken a chance on him.  Soon, he is given the chance to work on a study for a drug that purports to unblock arteries blocked by plaque and the other deposits that lead to arteriosclerosis and fatal heart attacks.  Initially, this windfall assignment leads Brian to think that he can get his father into the study.  You see, Brian's dad has been severely handicapped by past heart attacks and Brian doesn't want to lose him.  Brian schemes to get his father into the program but then, certain information is released by the author so that the reader and Dr. Holcomb find out that the medication may not be all it appears to be.  The much ballyhooed potential may just be a scam.<br />  Palmer leads the reader down the same path he has used in past novels.  Brian finds himself in trouble with the hospital and the law, when he is accused of killinga friend, another doctor.  Brian weaves in and out of near death experiences as he attempts to find answers for why he is being set up.  The ride we go on with Brian is one that Palmer has become a master of.  It is high speed - low drag and it leaves the reader panting and gasping for air.<br />  I also believe that this book is something of a sermon for Dr. Palmer.  After years of working in emergency medicine in Massachusetts, he has recently turned his attention to dealing with physicians who have substance abuse problems.  This novel is as fine a warning as any doctor (and their potential patients) will see in novelized format.  Dr. Palmer once again has delivered a fast-paced, gripping medical thriller.  As far as I am concerned, he has this genre to himself.  I look forward to his next effort.<br />  If you like thrillers and medical mysteries, you won't go wrong reading MIRACLE CURE.  I will agree with other reviewers here at Amazon who stated that there was an air of predictability to this novel.  You know what?  I don't care.  I read these books as escapist entertainment.  I don't expect Tolstoy and that's not what the author is writing.  When you accept what these novels are, and keep that in mind, they become that much more enjoyable.  Dr. Palmer has been practicing medicine for over 20 years and has been writing for a good part of that time.  From my corner, he seems to be pretty competent at both fields of endeavor.  Like many of his other readers, I anxiously await his latest installment.  I hope he'll be writing these novels for a long time to come.<br />Paul Connors	2001-03-21
US	50143797	R2ZII677D4KD3H	0451409485	693704075	First Avenue	Books	4	12	12	N	N	A Great Debut &amp; A Thinking Reader's Police Story!!!	This is as fine a debut novel as you will come across and is one of the better police novels I have read in many years!  I say that without qualification and I have read many a mystery novel and police procedural.  This one is excellent and what is so surprising is that this book is the author's first effort!<br />   The author, Lowen Clausen, spent 13 years with the Seattle PD.  Obviously, his main character, Sam, is his literary version of himself.  The way Mr. Clausen develops this character, as well as the second figure, a young female officer who is new to the police department is what makes this novel a thinking reader's police story.  To be sure, this is not your bang-bang, action-packed police procedural.  There are no &quot;unbelievable&quot; scenes or conversations.  Although pacing is not the quickest of what would be expected and found in this type of story, Mr. Clausen does a fine job moving this story forward in a way that will keep the reader involved and concerned.<br />    The main character is a police officer who routinely patrols First Ave. in Seattle before it was gentrified.  The average reader may not know enough about Seattle history to know when that happened and Clausen does not say, but that's okay.  Sam is a policeman who almost seems to be a character out of place and out of his element.  He is, somewhat incongruously, a poetry writing patrolman.  That alone sets him apart from his fellow officers and unlike the other career members of the force, he has taken college courses at the University of Washington in of all things, literature.<br />    The plot here revolves around the finding of a dead baby and the questions it raises about the location of the mother.  Sam and a couple of other &quot;concerned police officers&quot; decide to pursue what few leads they have in an attempt to close the case. They want to close it not just to fill a square and because the rules say they must, but for the simple reason that Sam vaguely knew the mother and was also aware that she would never abandon her infant child.<br />    Clausen very effectively uses scene and descriptions of the locale to create mood, tension, relief and and the very end, closure.  Had I never been to Seattle, this book would have served as an excellent primer on what I might expect to find when I did get there.  <br />    In addition to the attempts to find the young mother of the dead baby, Clausen interjects the possibility of high level corruption, dissolute heirs to newspaper fortunes and drug smuggling.  He does an exceptional job of blending all of the disparate plot elements together to create an outstanding story and one that leaves you feeling for the main characters when the book ends.<br />    This is not your typical police novel.  But then, it doesn't have to be.  Mr. Clausen is a talented and accomplished writer who will probably defy typecasting.  This book shows that he will be able to transcend genre labeling and I hope we see more of his work very soon.<br />Paul Connors	2001-03-21
US	50143797	R30WM56FXZCGR0	0451197038	129657749	Manner of Death (Alan Gregory)	Books	5	17	18	N	N	Another Winner from Stephen White!!!!!!	Regardless of what some of the naysayers write about this novel here at Amazon, this book is a true mystery and a thriller all wrapped up in a neat and tidy package.  Once again, Stephen White has done an outstanding job of providing a dilemma for Dr. Alan Gregory and the people he loves.<br />   In this installment in what has rapidly become a very popular series, Dr. White reprises all of the characters fans of these books expect to meet again within the covers.  White also introduces the legend of D.B Cooper into the storyline, not as a foil or complication, but as an inherent part of the plot and as a possible explanation for the murders and other mysterious deaths that are part of this story.<br />    Oh yes, there are killings galore in this novel.  The author makes use of a past love for Alan Gregory and does a masterful job in his use of flashbacks to explain where Alan Gregory was in 1982 (long before he met his wife Lauren, or Sam Purdy or even his first wife).  His first love came while he was a psychology intern at the teaching hospital in Denver.  It was there that he met Dr. (MD) Sawyer Sackett.  The love affair that developed ended badly and Sawyer left without notice or apology.  It has taken years for Dr. Gregory to get over her and when we flash back to the present, Alan and his wife are forced to confront the possibility that a former patient may have been killing off all of the staff members who treated him so many years before.<br />    Not too far into this story, Alan is informed that one of his former colleagues has died under suspicious circumstances.  Upon further investigation, he becomes aware that there hasn't been just one death among his former interns and residents, but many.  In a comical scene in a restaurant, Alan and Lauren meet two former FBI agents who were retained by the most recently deceased Dr. Arnie Dresser's mother to discover if there was foul play.  They believe there was and in almost all of the cases.  They have plausible explanations, but almost no hard evidence and cannot seem to interest the FBI or local law enforcement agencies because the locales are so far apart and the M.O.s so different.<br />    Throughout this fast paced and gripping thriller, White does an exceptional job of keeping the tension high and the fear factor elevated.  Every time Alan or Sawyer leaves home, the hotel, the office or wherever, the reader finds himself wondering if the killer will strike  right then and there.  Although there are a couple of really close calls, especially for Alan, he must also come to grips with his unresolved feelings for his former lover, Sawyer.<br />    Sawyer is one of those well developed characters that White uses as a foil for Alan Gregory.  In her case, the author only provides enough information to keep the reader moving forward.  When he finally reveals &quot;her dark secret,&quot; I was so stunned, shocked and saddened that I finally understood why she could not and would not get close to Alan back in 1982.  White handles that scene very well and with a high degree of empathy and compassion and he does that through the eyes of Dr. Alan Gregory.<br />    In addition to Sawyer Sackett, White also introduces the two former FBI agents, A.J. Simes  and Milton Custer.  A.J. is also a Ph.d. in Psychology and was a profiler for the FBI before a medical disability forced her retirement.  Custer, a former field agent retired after 25 years and became a consultant.  Alan's wife Lauren, notices some of the symptoms A.J. is suffering from and tells Alan that A.J. too, is suffering from MS.  White shows us her symptoms just as he does Lauren's.  Throughout the story, despite her annoying mannerisms, we hope that A.J. and Custer really do have Alan and Lauren's best interests in mind.  We hope they really are &quot;the good guys.&quot;<br />    Even with new characters, where would an Alan Gregory mystery be without his erstwhile sidekick Sam Purdy?  Well, Sam's here, too and this time, suffering the effects of a temporary lay-up due to kidney stones.  As he recovers and realizes he's going crazy on sick-leave, he stays by Alan's side as the home teams tries to solve this most vexing of puzzles.<br />    The use of the legend of D.B. Cooper adds a certain 1970s cultural appeal to the entire story and Stephen White provides a plausible possible answer to who the actual skyjacker might have been.  Throughout this book, I kept wondering if that little plot gimmick would lead to something and was pleased to see that the author left the answer somewhat ambiguous.<br />    Contrary to what others may have said, MANNER OF DEATH is as good as any of the other Alan Gregory novels to date.  Although I started the series out of order, I have never once been disappointed by any of these stories.  I hope Dr. Stephen White keeps Alan, Lauren, Sam, Adrienne, Jonas and Emily around for many books in the future.  Each time I open one of these novels, I feel like I am visiting with friends and that's what makes these books so enjoyable and comfortable.<br />Paul Connors	2001-03-07
US	50143797	RTG7LDFGJ8BK7	0425163415	543272644	The President's Daughter (Sean Dillon)	Books	4	5	7	N	N	Quick, Enjoyable Read, but not Tolstoy	Hey fellow readers, this is another of Jack Higgins action-packed thrillers.  It is not Tolstoy and it was never intended to be.  How do you think Higgins got so many of these things published?  He sure doesn't spend a lot of time on them.  These books are to action adventure fans what popcorn and Coke are to theater goers.<br />  In this action adventure thriller, Higgins reprises former IRA enforcer Sean Dillion, Brigadier Charles Ferguson and Scotland Yard Chief Inspector Hannah Bernstein.  Later on in the book, the author also recalls from retirement that old IRA legend Liam Devlin.  His cunning, wit and skill (despite his advanced age) were a welcome intrusion into the story line as it moved toward its conclusion.<br />  The President's Daughter is another one of those Higgins stories that really requires a major suspension of disbelief.  The plot's premise is that the US President, as a young Army officer in Vietnam, met a beautiful French woman who was searching for her husband thought lost when ambushed by the NVA.  It just so happens that the woman is married to a French Foreign Legion captain who retains a noble title and significant wealth.  Thinking her husband dead, she has a one night affair with young Lt. Jake Cazalet.  The very next morning, she finds out that her husband, Captain (Count) de Brissac is alive and out of a sense of duty, returns to him.  Jake is heartbroken but the two of them agree to part.  What neither one knows is that the one night liaison has resulted in the conception of a child.  After the child's birth, the Comtesse de Brissac convinces her husband that the child is his and life goes on.<br />  As the years pass, Jake Cazalet returned to Harvard where he completed his doctorate and law school.  He enters politics and eventually becomes a Senator.  Later, he is elected President. After he becomes President, Jake finds out that the Count de Brissac, a former French general, has passed away.  He eventually meets his long-lost love and she tells him a secret, her daughter was not 'the general's daughter,' but his own.  Jake's wife, who had died years earlier of leukemia, had never been able to bear children and now the POTUS has one 28 years old, who he cannot acknowledge.<br />  Enter the complication.  Someone else finds out Marie de Brissac's identity and they kidnap her.  The kidnappers are not the usual PLO, IRA or former Communist thugs Higgins has employed in these roles in the past.  They are Israelis who want to force the President to sign an order that will result in the nuclear destruction of Syria, Iran and Iraq.  They give him a time limit and with that clock ticking, the tension also starts to build.<br />  In his own way, Higgins chooses to involve Sean Dillon, Brigadier Ferguson and Hannah Bernstein.  He also introduces a new character, Blake Johnson, an FBI agent who runs &quot;The Basement&quot; in the White House.  He is the President's special action team and as a result of the kidnapping, he and Dillon join forces.  Readers will meet him again in THE WHITE HOUSE CONNECTION.<br />  While the entire premise for this book is truly far-fetched, the way in which Dillon and Blake Johnson resolve the crisis is what makes for the most interesting reading.  It is in the problem solving stage where Higgins provides most of the action, tension and enjoyment.  That is why he has so many fans around the world.  This is not great or memorable literature.  What it is is an enjoyable, mindless, escapist way to pass some time.<br />  Higgins is spare with his wording and his details.  That is also another factor in why his books are so quick and fast paced.  If you're looking for a quick way to escape your everyday existence, then Higgins (and this book) is a good place to start.  Sean Dillon and the rest of the characters in these books have become like old friends.  It's always good to visit with them every once in a while.<br />  Higgins fans will like this installment.  It's full ofeverything they expect from this extremely prolific author.  Cast aside the critical eye.  Sit back, put your feet up and visit with old friends.	2001-03-03
US	50143797	R3AAZOH04BV6A	0446608890	194746957	Saving Faith	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Starts Slow, Stays there a While and Ends Hot	I have read all of David Baldacci's other novels with the exception of TOTAL CONTROL and must admit that I had some trouble getting into this one.  I also had trouble staying with it and had to force myself to do so.  Initially I did not think much of the story line or the characters and wondered when the author would get to the point.  Additionally, I did not like Danny Buchanan much or Faith Lockhart, either.  I felt sorry for the PI, Lee Adams because he just seemed to be some poor sucker drawn into the various plots by Buchanan, Lockhart, Robert Thornhill (the evil CIA operative) and even the FBI.<br />    Somewhere along the way, however, the story line just started to heat up and I really began to like, respect and admire the resourcefulness of Lee Adams.  Faith started to come into her own as well.  Much later, the true character and mettle of Danny Buchanan comes through, too and I found that I liked him much more by mid-book.  By book's end, he had become more heroic and I realized he was truly a principled person.<br />    The book was somewhat formulaic, but it did combine the best of police procedurals, techno-thrillers, spy novels and murder mysteries.  Robert Thornhill, the CIA ADDO (assistant Deputy Director of Operations) was a thoroughly despicable character and while some reviewers here thought him too one-dimensional, I must say that I thought he was well-drawn.  As a career CIA spy, he had lost sight of the fact that he worked for the U.S. Government and the the government is supposed to be working to protect ALL Americans.  Thornhill felt he operated from a sacrosanct position and therefore, the normal rules did not apply to him or the CIA.  In that regard, and after all of the truly evil actions he unleashes, he was a well drawn picture of a zealot run amok.<br />    I would have to say that David Baldacci has for me, established a very noticeable pattern in the way he constructs his plotlines.  It is my impression that he starts his books slowly, describes the situation, fleshes out his characters and then moves the story along at an ever increasing pace.  He has shown considerable skill in building the level of tension while increasing his pacing toward the final denouement.  He has shown this facility with all of his novels and yet, I would have to say he did it best with his first novel, ABSOLUTE POWER.<br />    This is one of those books that a reader can pick up and put down.  It is also one of those books that are best suited for someone snowed in with no place to go, the cable is out and the reader has few other choices.  Don't get me wrong, by book's end, I realized I liked the overall package.  It just took a while for that level of appreciation to be realized.<br />    If you pick up this book, stick with it.  By book's end, you won't regret it and you'll realize that David Baldacci has had you rooting for Lee Adams, Faith Lockhart and Danny Buchanan for the last 3/4 of the novel.	2001-02-27
US	50143797	R3886I608BGA4A	0306802317	153606140	Hell in a Very Small Place: The Siege of Dien Bien Phu (Da Capo Paperback)	Books	5	160	164	N	N	Definitive Work on one of History's Pivotal Battles	This is it! This is the book that should be in the library of every seriou student of the Indo-China War.  While this book concerns itself with primarily one battle in the war that occupied France from 1946 through 1954, what a battle it was!<br />    The Battle of Dien Bien Phu (March 13-May 8, 1954) was not as long as some, but it played such an important role in what was to follow that years after the fact, the name Dien Bien Phu is still met with equal amounts of disdain for French folly and admiration for the resolve of the Viet Minh, who ultimately defeated the best of the French Expeditionary Corps.<br />    The late Bernard B. Fall has provided history students with a masterpiece of research, writing and scholarship.  He first came to the attention of American military, political and diplomatic leaders in the early 1960s with his quintessential look at the French war effort in STREET WITHOUT JOY.  He followed that success with HELL IN A VERY SMALL PLACE, which ironically was first released in early 1967, just weeks after the author was killed on Highway 1 (the old RC 1 - the Street Without Joy) while on patrol with United States Marines.<br />     When the reader first opens this one volume history, he encounters the reasons for the French seizure of a valley 175 miles from their headquarters and main source of supply.  The French High Command in Tonkin decided that controlling this valley would deny the Viet Minh access to the highlands of neighboring Laos and the mountain peoples who were more loyal to the French than they were to the Vietnamese.<br />     After the airborne assault on the valley on 20 November 1953, the French consolidated their position and began to fortify the valley floor.  A short time later, the field commander for Viet Minh forces, Vo Nguyen Giap decided that in order to ensure Viet Minh victory at the negotiating table, he must first inflict such a stunning defeat on French colonial forces that they will have no choice but to accede to Vietnamese nationalism and quit the &quot;crown jewel&quot; of their overseas empire.<br />    Fall does an exceptionally fine job of describing French and Communist preparations for the cataclysmic battle.  While he goes into great depth and technical detail, he never forgets that armies are composed of men and he also delivers to the reader all of the key French and Viet Minh personalities.  There are the names good students of this battle all know: there are Giap and Ho Chi Minh, Henri Navarre and Rene Cogny; we get to meet and know Colonel (later Brigadier General) Ferdinand Marie de la Croix de Castries, the aristocratic cavalry officer who commands French forces at Dien Bien Phu (and who is so totally unsuitable for the job).  There is the paratroop &quot;mafia&quot; of young airborne officers who effectively take control of the fortress (Langlais, Bigeard, Botella, Brechignac, de Seguin-Pazzis, et al) and hold the Viet Minh at bay for 57 days.<br />    But the French Colonial Paratroops were not alone at Dien Bien Phu.  There were also Foreign Legionnaires, Algerian and Moroccan rifles, Tunisians, Senegalese, Moroccan artillerymen, grounded air force pilots and maintenance crews, Vietnamese paratroopers and local mountain troops of the Red and White T'ai.  Fall forgets nothing and leaves no one out.  His detailed descriptions of the battles and the travails of the garrison are on a daily basis and no details are missed.<br />     Fall wrote this book with the help of the French Ministry of Defense, the North Vietnamese and after thousands of interviews with survivors of the battle (French, Communist Viet Minh, Vietnamese nationalist troops, Legionaires and the junior officers who learned bitter lessons in Indo-China and later applied them as they later attempted to keep Algeria French).<br />     This is a battle that has fascinated two generations of students and teachers alike.  It is hard to imagine a better single volume discourse on the subject, especially as time moves us further away from the battle.  It was a battle that changed the outcome of France's war and ultimately led to American involvement.  For it was LBJ who denied the French the aerial assistance of the B-29 bombers at Clark Field in the Philippines and it was this same LBJ, who 11 years later committed American troops to the endless quagmire that ended his presidency and tore the United States apart.<br />    As a primer for the later American involvement, this book is mandatory reading for if for no other reason, it lays out the roadmap of French defeat and the limitless hubris of the United States as it stepped into the breach and tried to do what  France could not.  This is &quot;the&quot; book on the subject and it explains in vivid detail how one of the most modern armies of Europe could lose to a guerrilla force.  It is about arrogance and hubris and anti-colonialist national aspirations.<br />     Although the main position at Dien Bien Phu fell on 7 May and Strongpoint Isabelle a day later on May 8th,  France did not sign the Geneva Accords on Indo-China until July 22, 1954.  As the Vietnamese saw the end of 85 years of colonial rule by Paris and as France pulled out in defeated shame, little did anyone know that the shadow of Dien Bien Phu would continue to haunt a world superpower for years to come.<br />    If you are not a student of this battle, I still recommend this book, because it is a natural starting point for anyone interested in finding out how America became embroiled in its longest and most divisive war.	2001-02-24
US	50143797	R1SNEQK9WM67Z7	0399146466	599085133	Special Ops: A Brotherhood of War Novel	Books	4	5	7	N	N	A Welcome Return to Where It All Started.......	This one was a surprise to find.  I was, like so many other fans of this writer, hoping that Mr. Griffin would somehow find a way to &quot;back into&quot; this series, the one that got us all started.  I always thought that when Griffin first ended the Brotherhood of War series (before writing the Berets) that the end came all to quickly (esp. after Craig Lowell is forced to retire at th end of THE GENERALS).<br />   In SPECIAL OPERATIONS, Griffin once again &quot;backs into&quot; the series by going back to 1964-65, before the characters get completely embroiled in the Vietnam War and the books he wrote to cover that part of the series.  This ability, to slide backward while keeping the stories fresh, has been one of his stronger suits and I am glad he finally did so.<br />   In this installment, all of the characters from B o W are reprised.  In many cases, they are about to be or have been promoted.  Craig Lowell is now a Lt Col, Sandy Felter a COL working directly for LBJ, Red Hanrahan is a Brig Gen and Bob Bellmon is a Major General.  We even spend more time with these warriors ladies and as usual, Griffin has done a fine job of fleshing the characters out and building up the reader's knowledge of each of them.<br />    With this story, Griffin chooses to take the reader to  Africa and South America where most of the diplomatic, intelligence and military action take place.  The U.S. Government is trying to stymie Communist insurrection in the Congo and Che Guevera has gone there to become a catalyst for rebellion and takeover.  Rather than assassinate the Argentine born surrogate for Castro, the USA decides to keep him alive, while controlling him and minimizing the potential for damage and communist takeovers.  Above all, Sandy Felter has convinced LBJ that Che must not become a martyr for the communist causes he espouses.<br />    My main reason for not giving this (or any of Griffin's books) five stars is his annoying persistence in &quot;lionizing&quot; theupper and aristocratic classes of the countries in which he sets his novels.  His fawning over the wealthy and elite members of American, Argentine, German, British and other societies is so heavy-handed and cloying as to be sickening.  For instance, in this book and all of the others in the Brotherhood of War (as well as The Corps, Men at War, Badge of Honor et al) officers are shown as always being intelligent, witty, honorable, wealthy or financially well off, possessed of a high level sense of mission and so on.  Very rarely does Griffin show officers the way they can be and are in the &quot;real&quot; military.<br />    In the real military of the USA, most officers (these days, at least) live on their government incomes, are not from upper class backgrounds, and have an uncanny propensity for doing what is best for THEIR careers and the enlisted members and the country be damned.  In addition, most flag officers (regardless of service) these days spend more time worrying about themselves, the next star and their perks and creature comforts than they do about the enlisted people entrusted to them and the nation they protect.  In reality, many senior military leaders are self-serving and venal and in this regard, Griffin does his readers a gross injustice because his books paint a picture that doesn't exist and never did.<br />    Several reviewers for this book and others in the Griffin library have also commented on technical mistakes, editing errors and questionable authorship.  I will say that I cannot disagree with them.  There are technical errors here such as calling a CAR-15 a CAR-16, the confusion of Johnny Oliver and Jack Portet, the time span over which Lowell and Felter have served and so on.  The historical math for many of the events in Griffin's story line is also lacking in spots.  Another annoying aspect in this story is the direct commissioning of Jack Portet, his &quot;abbreviated&quot; Special Forces course and his marriage to Marjorie Bellmon.  Granted, his flying skills are superb, but to shorten his SF training can only be viewed as gratuitous and would place him and anyone under his leadership in jeopardy once the &quot;hit sit the fan.&quot;  The constant special treatment for &quot;pet&quot; military personnel is what makes these novels most incongruous.<br />    I wish Griffin did not have to resort to the constant fawning over the Craig Lowells of the world if for no other reason than it creates unnecessary envy.  The editing errors, as well as the over-use of fake government communiques is also distracting.  Other than that, as I said earlier, I was very happy to see Griffin resurrect some of my favorite characters.  I'd also like to continue hoping that he is in fact, still writing this series so that I can have some measure of confidence when I buy them.<br />    Despite my minor criticisms, this was a welcome return to a series that had been left hanging for far too long.  I like these characters and what Griffin does with them and to them.  Now if he could only clean up the minor annoyances, I might be able to write a future review with 5 stars at the top.	2001-02-21
US	50143797	R8THGZD1C12L4	0425175413	669901920	The White House Connection (Sean Dillon)	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Quick Read but Higgins Has Done Better	In The White House Connection, Jack Higgins, the prolific thriller writer has again reprised former IRA terrorist Sean Dillon, Brigadier Charles Ferguson,Hannah Bernstein and Blake Johnson in a fast paced story where the combined talents of British and American intelligence are used to thwart Irish terrorism.<br />    In this continuation of the Sean Dillon saga, Higgins introduces an unlikely opponent for the combined US/UK intell team as they try to determine who is killing off the Sons of Erin and why.  That killer, a woman, is as unlikely as any protagonist Higgins has ever used.  Without revealing the person's identity (although the author does so early on), suffice it to say that the concept is improbable and unlikely.  It seemed as if Higgins was really reaching for something with this book and the reader needs to suspend disbelief more than is usual for novels of this type.<br />    In the process of leading the reader through the story, Higgins does his usual good job of providing history lessons right where they are needed to give readers the needed background to explain or amplify why he has written a character or scene a certain way.  His intertwining of certain historical facts, especially those on Irish rebel history immediately explain why a Protestant Irish American would be a member of the IRA when everyone knows that the enmity between Catholics and Protestants in Ulster is legendary. When Higgins does this, he is at his best.<br />    Another noticeable and at times very annoying feature of this book is that the dialogue Higgins gives the American characters is more British than American.  In some cases it is more Irish than American. It almost seems as if Higgins has no knowledge whatever of American idiom and doesn't know how to write using our speech patterns.  If you are a fan and doubt this style problem, go back and look closely for it.  EVERYONE sounds British.  Sean Dillon, the former IRA killer is also inconsistent in his speech patternsas well.  Higgins' use of Irish idiom is overdone and also becomes annoying, mostly because it's so unnecessary.<br />    Despite my minor annoyances and critiques here, overall, this is a very enjoyable read.  The usual Higgins mastery of scene, atmosphere, characterization, tension and pacing all here.  If the reader is familiar with the British cast of characters, this book reads quickly and well because we are all glad to be reunited with Sean Dillon and his boss, Brigadier Charles Ferguson.<br />    Higgins also provides some really despicable opposition to the intelligence folks.  One, named Jack Barry is so hoorible that most readers will probably be praying for his death.      This is the kind of book one can easily read over a weekend or on the beach.  Despite some minor and easily forgivable irritants, THE WHITE HOUSE CONNECTION is another successful and fast ride through the creative mind of Jack Higgins.  If he had avoided overuse of British speech patterns and a more than usually unbelievable main character, I would have awarded this book 5 stars; so with these things in mind, I gave it 4 stars.<br />     Fans of Higgins shouldn't miss this one and I recommend to all serious readers of espionage and police procedural novels.	2001-02-17
US	50143797	R17M5GRDGXJZ7O	0842329277	499654908	Assassins: Assignment Jerusalem, Target AntiChrist (The Left Behind Series)	Books	4	8	8	N	N	The Trib Force Saga &amp; the End Times Continue	This is the continuing saga of the Tribulation Force and the members readers first met in LEFT BEHIND.  In this installment, the authors Tim Lahaye and Jerry Jenkins continue to inform readers of what the end times will look like for believers and non-believers alike.<br />    Some reviewers here have stated that they think this series is being dragged out too much.  I won't dispute that opinion because at times, I have had it myself.  Despite some reservations, I have become hooked like so many others who have followed the story of Rayford Steele, his daughter Chloe, Buck Williams, Tsion Ben-Judah, Hattie Durham and the Anti-Christ himself, Nicolae Carpathia.<br />    What I especially liked about this book was that the authors show the Trib Force members as believers who are still all too human.  In ASSASSINS, the period of trial is rapidly approaching the middle of the treaty period between the GLOBAL COMMUNITY and the state of Israel.  As readers know, this means that the two prophets in Jerusalem will be killed and later resurrected.  The time is also coming when the GC Potentate will be killed and &quot;indwelt&quot; with the living embodiment of Satan himself.  This will come in a future installment (THE INDWELLING-which is already available, as is THE MARK).<br />    In this, the sixth book in the series, the 200 million horseman apocalypse foretold in Revelations has arrived and 1/3 of the survivors of all the previous disasters have been slaughtered.  Believers live through this tribulation unscathed but they know they face worse to come.  I think the authors, rather than unnecessarily dragging this series out are providing just the right degree of pacing to keep this series alive and fresh.<br />    The plot elements move along in a progressive way and the fact is, the title comes from the desire of many to end the not so benevolent rule of the GC Potentate.  Despite his leadership role in the &quot;Trib Force,&quot; Capt. Rayford Steele has become sickened by the abuses, death and suffering he has seen around him and only wants to hasten Carpathia's demise.  That makes him human and understandable.  He is no marble saint on a pedestal.<br />    After reading this far in this series, I can say that I have been  entertained and have also been forced to consider my own faith.  I don't think that anyone can really ask for more from these books.  I do look forward to reading THE INDWELLING and THE MARK.  The two writing partners have kept me going this far and I'm sure they won't disappoint me in those two volumes.<br />    While these are not literature in the sense that Tolstoy's writings are, they are a good way for believers and non-believers to re-evaluate where they stand on the issues of faith, salvation, redemption and what comes after death.  These books are a literalist approach to the Bible, told through the medium of fiction.  If you take them that way, and read with an open mind, you might be surprised with how these stories make you feel.  While they are fiction, it's also pretty obvious that readers who know anything about the scriptures are hearing the Lord's message.<br />    For those who haven't discovered this series, my main recommendation is go back and start at the very beginning.  You may have a lot of catching up to do, but I think you'll enjoy the reading and the ride.<br />Paul Connors	2001-02-13
US	50143797	R2H6OTNJMP64CQ	0425177696	433485830	The Passenger	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Quick, Somewhat Plausible Conspiracy Thriller	Former Air Force pilot Patrick Davis has written another quick read that combines military technology with conspiracy and good police work.  It reads quickly and while there are a few technical errors, which Davis, as a former serving officer should not have made, comes across as for the most part believable.<br />    In this book, the Learjet carrying the half-brother of the President of the United States goes down under mysterious circumstances.  An senior AF officer assigns a brand new Colonel, a former fighter pilot grounded by ejection injuries to the case.  He hopes to embarrass this promising officer and lay the blame elsewhere to conceal his perfidy and inside connections with corrupt administration officials.<br />    The officer in charge of the investigation must also deal with the fact that his former wife, now the Deputy Director of the NTSB has also been assigned to the investigation.  Although the Air Force team also includes Lt Col Chen, friend of Colonel Quinn and a former civilian homicide investigator before he joined the Air Force, Jennifer's assignment leaves COL Quinn looking for the underlying motive behind insider attempts to blame the pilots for the crash.<br />    Along the route of the investigation, innocent people die.  Previous government scandals are brought back to complicate the mix.  But the two lead AF investigators are men of integrity and honor and they deal with the incessant corruption in the media, the FBI, the White House and the Congress with the courage that only people who have seen real combat can bring to bear when the going gets tough.<br />   As I said, this is a quick read.  Davis is still a new writer and is sure to develop his story telling skills with each new outing.  I look forward to his future efforts and recommend this book to fans of military and police procedural thrillers.<br />Paul Connors	2001-02-13
US	50143797	R17W4I34Q4S9PB	0312253397	204354638	Hong Kong: A Jake Grafton Novel	Books	5	5	8	N	N	Post-Colonial Hong Kong Never Looked So Good!!!!	This is a truly visionary tale, well-told of what might happen if a popular uprising were able to topple the corrupt, vicious and venal Communist Chinese regime.  A quick read, it is a mach 2 ride into the possiblities of the end of Communist rule in Hong Kong and perhaps, all of mainland China.<br />The author, Stephen Coonts once again reprises Jake Grafton and his wife, Callie in this combination techno-political thriller that also resurrects Jake's bombardier/navigator Virgil 'Tiger' Cole from FLIGHT OF THE INTRUDER.  All of the scene, style, atmosphere and pacing that readers familiar with Coonts' Jake Grafton novels expect is here.  However, instead of jets roaring off the catapults of carriers, he puts Grafton and the intrigue and dangers he faces ashore.  <br />Without an F-14 or an A-6 under him, RADM Grafton must use all of his skill to determine if his old friend Tiger Cole is involved in revolutionary activities that pose a threat to American/Chinese relations.  While Jake has not seen Tiger Cole in years, the reader finds out that Cole left the navy after he and Jake were rescued from the North Vietnamese jungle after their shoot-down.  He went back to grad school and has become filthy rich in the hi-tech whirlwind of Silicon Valley.  Over the years, his political donations paid off and a recent administration has appointed him Consul General at the American Consulate in Hong Kong.<br />    Coonts does yeoman's work portraying the corruption and tyranny of the Communist government that replaced the last British Colonial Administration.  It is obvious where Mr. Coonts' own views are and yet, this does not interfere with his moving the story toward its conclusion.  As one reads this book, it makes the reader stop and consider the fall of communism in China.  After all, it happened in Russia and the corruption, cruelty, human rights violations, and other crimes all beg the case for the ruthless government in Beijing.  It is also obvious that the good of the people is no longer the watchword of any communist government.  Rather, it is conservation of the status quo and the maintenance of a dictatorship of an elite few in power.<br />     Coonts also does an outstanding job of describing the yearning of all people everywhere to be free.  Just as Leonidas I and the 300 Spartans stood against Xerxes and his Persian horde at the pass at Thermopylae in defense of Greek freedom, so too do the residents of Hong Kong stand against the tyranny they face from Beijing.  As Coonts so eloquently points out, Hong Kong was the first free area turned over to Communist rule by negotiation and without a shot being fired.  It was a cowardly act and was accomplished without the consent of the people most affected by the transfer from a free capitalist system to a dictatorial totalitarian one.<br />    Read this book because it is a fast thrilling ride.  But when you're done, sit back and contemplate the possibilities posed by the idea of the end of one of the world's most cruel and tyrannical systems.<br />    Thank you Mr. Coonts for another Mach 2 ride and for many hours of reading enjoyment.<br />    BZ!!<br />Paul Connors	2001-02-12
US	50143797	REQGYJG1DRR8N	068486360X	125490883	Hot Springs	Books	4	13	13	N	N	Great Prequel to the &quot;Bob the Nailer&quot; Books	Stephen Hunter has hit another homer with HOT SPRINGS, a  novel that is a variation on a theme given to his previous readers in POINT OF IMPACT, TIME TO HUNT and DIRTY WHITE BOYS.  Instead of another outing with &quot;Bob The Nailer&quot; the master sniper readers have read about in previous novels, we get a rich text that tells the story of his father, Earl Swagger.  Throughout this book, fans of Hunter's previous tales will find the origins of the myth that surrounds Bob Lee Swagger.<br />     Earl Swagger is a WW II vet whose heroism and battlefield prowess earned him a Medal of Honor at Iwo Jima.  As this book opens, he is receiving that medal from President Harry S Truman.  However, the former Marine 1st Sgt has already been medically retired and is having difficulty readjusting to civilian life and a peacetime America.  He also has a pregnant wife and is wondering what to do when he is given the opportunity to become part of something big.  He is hired by an ambitious Arkansas prosecutor who wants to rid the town of Hot Springs of all its corrupting influences and the criminals who make their livings preying on the vices and weaknesses of others.<br />    Earl and the famous FBI agent, D.A. Parker are hired to form a special team, a strike force to break up the gangster stranglehold on the town.  Earl, who has had no sense of purpose since the end of the war initially becomes the drill instructor for the ad hoc team of 12 police officers from all over the country.  While part of the plan is to rid Hot Springs of vice, the other part is to train these 12 policemen in modern methodologies so that they can go home and spread the experience around among their fellow officers back home.      Hunter does a fine job describing each of the personalities of the lawmen and also introduces historical figures such as Bugsy Siegel, Virginia Hill, Mickey Rooney and a assorted mix of backwoods moonshiners, bushwackers and inbred rednecks.<br />      Earl and D.A. Parker teach the young lawmen all the tricks of the trade in order to make them more effective and keep them alive.  His Marine Corps tactical expertise comes into play during every operation the group undertakes.  Along with his urban combat worries, Earl is forced to deal with the legacy of his father, a former Polk County Sheriff who was gunned down while Earl was off fighting WW II.  A WW I hero himself, he was brutal to his two sons.  As a result, Earl ran away from home to join the Marines and his younger brother hanged himself in 1942. When Earl comes home from the war, an out-of-work hero, he has no family left but his young and pregnant wife.<br />      Hunter captures all of the flavor of 1946 Arkansas.  One can see, feel and live the time, before air conditioning existed, when segregation was still the law of the land and the races did not mix in rural southern America.  The author also paces this story at a moderate pace.  He keeps the reader wanting more, without rushing his story or the characters and it follows a logical flow that adds to the enjoyment.<br />      As readers familiar with Hunter's Bob Lee Swagger books will realize as they read, Earl is a principled AND heroic figure.  He is the type of man who met every challenge placed before him without complaint or hesitation.  He is what we don't find too much of in America anymore.  He is a proud man, a heroic figure who will not be put upon, maligned or otherwise mistreated.  It is obvious after reading this book, that Bobby Lee Swagger is his father's son.<br />     It is not necessary to have read Hunter's earliest works to appreciate HOT SPRINGS.  However, if you have, you will appreciate this book all the more because you will be able to make the inevitable comparisons between father and son.  If you haven't read the others first, that's okay, too.  Once you have read HOT SPRINGS, you'll want to read about Bob the Nailer, if for no other reason than to see what kind of man Earl Swagger raised.<br />I recommend this book to Stephen Hunter's existing fans and to those who haven't discovered him.  Once you read HOT SPRINGS, you'll want to read the rest of the Swagger Saga.<br />Paul Connors	2001-01-26
US	50143797	R10N9B328XM3WT	0399146644	864794808	L.A. Dead (Stone Barrington)	Books	4	5	8	N	N	Will it be Arrington or Dolce???	Well, Stone is back and in a big way.  Stuart Woods immediately continues some of the plotlines started with the book that immediately preceded LA DEAD and does he ever turn up the heat.<br />    As LA DEAD opens, Stone Barrington and his friends Dino and Mary Ann Bachetti are on their way to Venice where Stone, who had not heeded Dino's advice where Dolce Bianchi is concerned in WORST FEARS REALIZED is all set to take his first plunge into marital bliss.  After the Italian civil ceremony, but before the Catholic church wedding, Stone receives news that his friend Vance Calder, husband to his former love Arrington has been murdered at his home in Beverly Hills, CA.  Everyone in the wedding part encourages him to fly to California and he immediately does so.<br />    Trouble begins shortly after Stone arrives in Los Angeles.  It is fairly obvious that Arrington, Vance's widow will be charged with the crime and Stone makes immediate preparations for her defense, as well as the handling of Vance Calder's huge estate.  This plot twist is predictable, but Stuart Woods lays the groundwork well and carries the story line through to a less than logical conclusion.  Along the way, he injects all of the little plot twists the Stone Barrington stories are known for.  Fans of the Stone novels will NOT be disappointed with this latest installment.<br />    All of the other features that Stone fans have come to know and expect are also present.  As usual, Stone makes his way effortlessly in the world of the rich and beautiful.  For a man raised by two extremely left wing parents, he has no trouble at all dealing with the trappings and material things that come from wealth.  While he may not be a right wing Republican, it is obvious that Stone is comfortable with and accustomed to all of the good things that money can by.  Stuart Woods keeps that part of Stone's character consistent and LA DEAD is no exception.<br />    Despite the fact that Stone has married Dolce Bianchi in a civil ceremony, her erratic behavior after he leaves Venice to help Arrington forces him to reassess his relationship with her.  His decision regarding the relationship and the marriage itself will come as no surprise to Stone fans.  In addition to his reappraisal of his short marriage, Stone must come to grips with his feelings for Arrington.  After Vance Calder's death, that door is once again opened and Stone must decide whether to reopen a part of his life that he once thought was lost.  How he deals with all of the decisions he must make throughout the story is what makes Stone such a fun and interesting character to follow.<br />    Because almost all of the significant action and drama takes place in California, Stuart Woods again exposes his readers to the the lifestyles of the &quot;rich and aimless.&quot;  He does  a yeoman's job of detailing the sordidness behind the glitz that makes up the showbiz community.  In doing so, and despite his confusion regarding Arrington and Dolce, Stone again gets to show his propensity for &quot;musical beds.&quot;  LA DEAD proves once again that fidelity is not one of Stone's long suits.  His handsomeness makes him a natural target for beautifil women and in this chapter in the &quot;Stone Barrington Saga,&quot; Stone's ability to bed the most desirable women on the planet continues unabated.<br />    I often wonder whether Stone has a conscience, especially when he professes to love Arrington.  In any case, his carnal behavior looms large in this book, as it did in all the others before it.<br />    Like all of the other Stone stories, Stuart Woods paces LA DEAD at a breakneck speed.  These books are very hard to put down and I read this one in one over night sitting.  Mr. Woods' prose style is spare and long on dialog and conversations.  He uses description of legal, police and other procedures only when necessary.  That ability is what keeps the stories moving forward at a quick pace.  I'll bet it's one of the things hisreaders like best; that he doesn't bore them with arcane detail and trivia about locales or his characters.<br />    As this book ends, Stone receives an unexpected surprise and it was I twist I didn't see coming.  Once again, Stuart Woods has left himself an easy opening for another Stone Barrington  thriller.  I look forward to it with considerable anticipation.<br />    I have one recommendation to other readers before they read LA DEAD.  If you haven't read WORST FEARS REALIZED first, do so.  Much of the groundwork re: Stone's relationship with Dolce Bianchi starts with that novel and reading it first will provide the natural continuity for LA DEAD.	2000-12-19
US	50143797	RWD6QA8C7TCM2	0060191821	796925803	Worst Fears Realized	Books	3	6	6	N	N	Fast Paced, But At Times Erratic	I read this book in less than two days and can understand why so many other reviewers here found this book lacking compared to previous Stone Barrington novels.  Perhaps they are right and Stuart Woods is slipping.  However, while this book certainly is not a great novel, it also does not deserve a 1 star rating, either.<br />  Fans of Stuart Woods need to remember that Stone Barrington was created by the author as SOMETHING OF A CARICATURE.  Several installments back, Mr. Woods even commented in one of his afterwords that readers had commented on Stone's sluttish behavior.  He stated (somewhat tongue in cheek) that he tried to tone Stone's behavior down but Stone just wouldn't toe the party line.  In any case, these books are light reads and should not be confused with Tolstoy or Dickens.<br />  WORST FEARS REALIZED is just another fast paced read in the continuing saga of Stone Barrington and his upper crust NY friends.  This book has it all:  Stone bedding one gorgeous woman after another, lots of money, Mafia dons, released psychopaths hunting Stone and Dino Bachetti and killing their friends.  This is a quick easy read and I found it entertaining.  I laughed a lot at some of the funny lines that Woods gives his characters to deliver.<br />  Give the guy a break!  Mr Woods has written over 21 books.  How many of the critics here at Amazon have done that?  How many readers could craft even the worst of his efforts and turn it into a bestseller?  I defy any of the other 44 reviewers who submitted reviews before me to do so.  I know I can't (and haven't) and therefore, reserve my harsher criticisms for those truly terrible pieces of trash that get past editors and publishers.  This may not be his best effort to date, but it's still a damn sight better than a lot of the schlocky stuff that passes for popular literature.<br />  What can I say?  WFR kept me reading and after finishing it, I immediately picked up a copy of L.A. DEAD where the adventures of Stone Barrington, Esq. and &quot;bon vivant&quot; are continued.  When I finish it, I'll pass along my comments.<br />Paul Connors	2000-12-16
US	50143797	R271GN14C4TPT5	0385488440	597135386	Purple Cane Road: A Novel (Dave Robicheaux Mysteries)	Books	5	35	36	N	N	The Best Robicheaux Book Yet!	Well, what a ride!  PURPLE CANE ROAD is probably James Lee Burke's best Dave Robicheaux novel yet.  That statement comes without qualification because I have thoroughly enjoyed all of the books in this series.<br />   All the characters you have come to look forward to reading about are back again.  There's Dave, Clete Purcell, Bootsie, Helen Soileau, Alafair and Batist.  Even Tripod, Alafair's three legged pet racoon is still in the cast.<br />   What Burke does exceptionally well with this novel is introduce more interesting characters to the mix.  The story also deals with obsession(s) as Dave tries to clear a woman on Death Row while finding out who killed his mother more than 30 years before.<br />   The violence that punctuates all of the novels in this series is also present here as well.  Most noticeably, Clete Purcell, Dave's loyal former partner and always best-friend, seems to find more than his fair share of it.  His excessive drinking and intemperate remarks and lifestyle continue in PURPLE CANE ROAD and it is during the moments when we read of these events that JLB interjects much of his pathos and humor.  Clete is an extremely violent man, but it is also good to know that he is primarily on the side of right.  God help the people of Louisiana if he were ever to cross over to the criminal side of the spectrum.<br />   Dave Robicheaux is obssessed by the need to find out who killed his mother Mae in 1967.  Readers of this series will remember that Dave's mother abandoned him for a bouree dealer when she left while Dave was still a small boy.  As a grown man and a police officer, Dave struggles to do right by her memory by re-opening the unsolved 30 year old case.  Along the way, he runs into the string of sociopaths that Burke is so fond of populating this series with.<br />   All is not right in New Iberia Parish or in New Orleans, either.  Cops and politicians  are dirty and corrupt and James Lee Burke fully fleshes out the parasites who feed off power, money and the misfortune of others.  This is a well-crafted and believeable novel, right through to the very end.  When Burke leads the reader to the end of his story, there is a certain type of closure that Dave and the reader both receive.  When the reader stops to consider the final outcome of the plot line, he/she will also realize that there is a certain balance to the scales of justice after all.<br />   This was a fast read and the story gripped me right from the beginning.  Unlike some of Burke's other books in this series, which start out slowly and speed up, this one asks the reader to climb aboard while the train is traveling down the track at 100 mph.  When I finish these books, I wonder when Burke will bring us his next installment.  This one left me thirsty for more on the detective and his cohorts in New Iberia, LA.<br />   After reading PURPLE CANE ROAD, you'll never have to ask why James Lee Burke is one of only two authors to win the EDGAR AWARD twice.  This man is a master of his craft and this book just proves it.<br />Paul Connors	2000-11-27
US	50143797	RBHMWVIRV4C76	0399145680	482366696	Secret Honor (Honor Bound)	Books	4	14	17	N	N	About Par for W.E.B Griffin	I have been a fan of W.E.B. Griffin's books since the first installment in THE BROTHERHOOD OF WAR SERIES (The Lieutenants). But like so many of the author's fans, I have started to become annoyed with some of the more egregious storyline errors made by Mr. Griffin.<br />   For a man who goes to such trouble to research detail to the most minute levels, he makes some very important errors.  Most noticeable are those where he forgets who did what and to whom. Some of the other errors involve German military ranks and so on.  For example, a &quot;Kriegsmarine&quot; lieutenant commander would have been addressed as &quot;kapitanleutnant&quot; and not korvettenkapitan.  These are the types of repetitive errors that have cropped up in all of Mr. Griffin's books and it has become exasperating.  It makes me wonder if his publisher even bothers to edit his works.<br />   Another aspect of these novels that has really started to grate on me (and perhaps other readers as well) is Mr. Griffin's constant reliance on and dog-like devotion to the wealthier classes of American, Argentine, British and other national groups.  It is fairly obvious that Mr. Griffin's devotion to the aristocrats of the world is based on envy and an almost pathological desire to be included in their ranks and social circles.  Clete Frade and the senior American, Argentine as well as the German aristocrats all fare well in this story, while the common man is relegated to minor and subservient postings and roles.  It's become so obvious, that is really sickening how much he fawns over the wealthy people in his stories.<br />    To be sure, these are entertaining and somewhat informative historical fictions  One gets more background on Juan Peron and Argentina than would be available otherwise.  But let's not forget that the senior Argentine officers, painted so admirably here by Mr. Griffin were, for the most part, extremely pro-German throughout the war.  They remained that way right up until the Nazis surrendered and ultimately, sheltered many of those lucky enough to escape from Europe at war's end.<br />   Lest other readers question the four star rating I've given this book, let me say this.  It was a quick, mainly enjoyable, if sometimes mildly annoying read.  I like the characters for the most part.  They are well fleshed out.  Mr. Griffin and these books are a harmless vice.  They're also a lot like potato chips.  You have to keep eating till the bag's empty.  I look forward to each installment like everyone else.  But don't get me wrong; these are not great books; they're simply entertaining.	2000-11-20
US	50143797	RZ54VJPKDPVL5	044900211X	142953671	The Marching Season	Books	5	59	61	N	N	An Excellent and Logical Sequel To The Mark of the Assassin!	This is the third of Daniel Silva's books that I have read and all I can say is that THE MARCHING SEASON is perhaps the best sequel I have read in any of the genres I read in.  At the very beginning of this book I did not think I would end up saying this, but here I am, saying it in spite of my initial reservations.<br />   To be sure, this book starts off more slowly than I would have expected or liked.  However, that is where the skill that Daniel Silva possesses reveals itself.  Without a doubt, here is a relatively new author who is already a master of pacing, tension, plot, scene, character development and everything that is needed to craft a finely wrought spy novel.<br />   Michael Osbourne is reprised from THE MARK OF THE ASSASSIN as are his wife, his liberal father-in-law, retired U.S. Senator Douglas Cannon and other members of the government and the CIA.  Also returning for a not so welcome guest appearance is Jean-Paul Delaroche, aka October, the Assassin who unsuccessfully attempted to kill Michael Osbourne in the previous installment.<br />   The internal machinations of the U.S. and British governments, as well as the possible goings-on inside both the IRA and the various Irish Protestant paramilitaries are also revealed here and in fine detail.  Another master stroke that Silva employs throughout this story is that he doesn't ever really get preachy.  With some authors, their natural biases come out in their writing.  Not so with Daniel Silva.  He simply tells the story and writes about the people he populates the book with.<br />   Is there moral outrage on Silva's part?  I would  have to guess yes.  No normal person could ever condone the terroristic acts that are carried out in the name of one misguided cause after another around the globe.  If he shows that outrage, it is when he talks about how various splinter factions  have risen out of the ashes of the fires of terrorism to scuttle the Irish peace process.  He also writes damningly of THE SOCIETY, a super secret extra-national intelligence organization that continues to stir the pot around the globe for its own greedy interests.  These are the folks you can tell Silva despises; the globalists with no loyalties to any nation or flag.  They are only loyal to their own financial interests.<br />   Although Silva continues to be spare with his information on Jean Paul Delaroche, he provides just enough material to keep the reader plunging along in headlong pursuit of the final denouement.  This is what makes October so interesting and ultimatley almost sympathetic.  For throughout the international chases, October is a man who maintains his own sense of values and morality.  Michael Osbourne may not agree with October's view of the world or himself, but ultimately, the respect, while grudging begins to grow.  How Silva brings this all about is what makes this an exceptional spy novel.<br />   If you have not discovered Daniel Silva, you are in  for a real treat.  Start with THE UNLIKELY SPY and then read THE MARK OF THE ASSASSIN, followed by THE MARCHING SEASON.  Only the last two are directly related but, if you read them in the order I have listed, you will get to follow Silva's rapid development as a writer and see his promotion into the ranks of spy-thriller masters.<br />    I recommend these books unreservedly to all fans of well-crafted spy fiction.  Read them and you too, will be telling your friends about Daniel Silva.<br />   Thank you, Mr. Silva for many hours of reading enjoyment.  I hope you'll keep Michael Osbourne as a central figure in your future novels.  I think he still has more to say.<br />Paul Connors	2000-11-20
US	50143797	RWYYE3WH887M9	0842329161	264457002	Apollyon: The Destroyer Is Unleashed (Left Behind #5)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	The End Times Go On and On and On.....	Like so many others who have written reviews of the books in the LEFT BEHIND series, I have my problems with the books themselves.  I will not attempt to criticize the authors for the message they are trying to deliver, because I am not competent to do so.  In addition, I think the message is one that needs to get out to people everywhere.  From that standpoint, these books are great witnessing tools.<br />   From my own standpoint, I am what I call a weak Christian.  many years ago, I accepted Christ as my Savior.  Unfortunately for me, and unlike so many of my friends who are much stronger in their walk with Christ, I am not the type of Christian I would have hoped to become.  These books serve as a stark reminder of that fact for me, so I suppose they also serve to convict me of all my mistakes.<br />   I have written over 40 reviews here at Amazon, almost all of them on fiction or non-fiction works that could only be called popular and mainstream.  This is the first time I have attempted to review on of the LEFT BEHIND novels, the first time I have reviewed a book that is attempting to bring God's message to mankind.<br />   To be sure, these books are not masterpieces of literature.  They are simply written and initially, I thought the characters were too narrowly drawn.  But as the series has continued, I have found myself inexorably drawn back to each and every installment.  Like so many others, I want to see what LaHaye and Jenkins will do to and for the Tribulation Force.  As other reviewers have stated, there is a healthy dose of scripture in each volume of the series.  Some is easily recognizable because the authors use many passages in almost verbatim format.  In others, the scripture is somewhat less clear, but deep down inside, the reader knows that they have seen and read God's message.<br />   I have not reviewed the other novels in this series because I read each of them too long ago to remember what I liked and disliked about them.  I have just finished APPOLLYON and have ASSASSINS at home waiting to be read.  These are easy to read and I yearn to see what will happen next.  My main complaint is that some of the plot devices just don't ring true.  The suspension of disbelief is sometimes, too demanding.<br />   My other complaint is the double spacing and the use of EXTREMELY wide margins.  I have bought these books in hardcover and feel like TYNDALE is really taking advantage of readers formatting and binding the books the way they do. All one has to do is look at the normal sized (not the trade sized) paperbacks and realize that the books could be shorter and more economically packaged.<br />   Despite these minor criticisms, these are uplifting books.  Even if one is NOT a Christian, the use of prophecy and scripture throughout this series is compelling and very well done.  If I were not a Christian, these books would make me stop and think, much as Tsion Ben Judah's website (in the story lines) has drawn millions of visitors.  As weak as I am in my walk with God, these books never fail to remind me of what the end times may bring.  I truly hope I am not here to see what these books portray, but all the same, they do act as chilling portents of what mankind faces.<br />   These are great books to read if you don't read the Bible on a daily basis.  They never fail to remind us that Christ is our Savior and that through him, eternity is not something we should dread.<br />  My only caution for this series is this: start at the beginning and if you do, don't start any of these books near bed-time.	2000-11-16
US	50143797	R33GFYBI6JWT8G	0446524972	835067122	The Pledge	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Fraternities Can Be Bad For Your Health	This is a fine debut novel from an an author I hope we see more from.  Rob Kean has given his readers a gripping story on how power corrupts and things that people will do to maintain that power.<br />   Being a young man not too far removed from his own college days has also permitted Mr Kean to keep his details current, lively and informative.  This is a book that could be read by college students AND their parents and both groups would be able to enjoy it.  In addition to a deftly paced plot, the author also provides a morality play within the courtroom and murder subplots that co-exist within the pages of this great read.<br />   While set on a fictional college campus, this is primarily a murder mystery with some really well done courtroom drama thrown in for amplification.  Kean does a fine job of building his characters as well and by book's end, I am sure every reader will have found a new level of respect and admiration for Kean's hero, Mark Jessy.<br />   I really enjoyed this book and can heartily recommend it to to college aged folks and their parents with equal fervor.  Pick it up and read a great debut novel.  I don't think you'll be sorry you did.	2000-10-27
US	50143797	R2TXXPS1K4PRDY	0316154067	559013514	Void Moon	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Fast paced, unusual and one of his best!	Michael Connelly hits another home run as he temporarily leaves Harry Bosch behind and writes about the other side of the law.<br />   Cassie Black  is a convicted felon who has sustained several major losses in her young  life. First, she lost the love of her life, then she lost the child who was  the product of that love.  Then, she loses he freedom as she spends more  than 5 years in prison for felony murder for her part in the death of her  lover Max during a Las Vegas casino burglary gone sour.<br />   This book has  all of the tension fans of Connelly have come to expect through the Bosch  novels.  His spare but incisive prose makes the reader want to get to the  end of the story but then lament that it is finally over.  He creates  sympathetic and understandable characters and we feel for Cassie.  We do  not feel for the men who have hurt her and betrayed her as she tries to  find peace and reclaim her daughter.<br />    How Connelly puts this storyline  together is what makes it so successful.  We want to know how Cassie will  get out of her predicament and I cheered when I saw how she did.  Like the  rest of us, she is a flawed being.  But in her case, there is still a sense  of morality and rightness.  In the end, Cassie choosese the  &quot;hard&quot; right in place of the easy wrong.  <br />   I recommend this  book to Connelly's fans and those who have never read him.  For those who  haven't discovered the Bosch novels, this will be an unexpected treat  because there is no Bosch to compare too.<br />   Connelly proves once again,  that he is rapidly becoming &quot;the&quot; master (without peer) of this  genre.  Read VOID MOON and find out why.	2000-08-19
US	50143797	RTG7KIOFNQ71A	0345428277	788475333	The Insider	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Quick read with a resourceful main character	Stephen Frey is a talented writer who provides his readers  with main characters who have the uncanny ability to get themselves into trouble  without even trying.  In his latest outing, THE INSIDER, that poor  unfortunate person is Jay West, an unlikely candidate for a seat on an  arbitrage desk at a boutique investment house on Wall Street.<br />  Jay is  everything that he shouldn't be in investment banking.  He is not an IVY  grad and lacks a prestigious MBA.  He holds an English degree from Lehigh  University and comes from a working class family in the steel region of  eastern Pennsylvania.  Despite his apparent shortcomings, he is selected,  recruited and hired for a position with McCarthy and Lloyd and his future  looks bright.<br />  Immediately immersed in the day-to-day activities of  the arbitrage desk, Jay proves to be so insightful that he shortly realizes  all is not as it should be.  Once he catches on, he still tries to succeed  because after all, he has a powerful incentive. At the end of one year, he  stands to reap a cool million dollars as his bonus.<br />  But that reality  is  never meant to be and Jay is set up to take a serious fall.  Before the  book is 2/3 of the way through, Jay is being pursued by the US Government  and some really nasty characters from an extremist Irish liberation  organization.<br />  Another reviewer here at Amazon has stated that Frey  borrows his newer characters from books he has previously written.  I won't  diagree completely.  Some of them are starting to sound very much alike.  But there is still enough of a difference to keep the reader wanting to  know how Jay West will get out of his precarious position.  That's what  makes Frey's books such entertaining page turners.  He doesn't use a lot of  detail where it isn't necessary and he keeps the plot moving in a forward  direction.  This is not Tolstoy or Faulkner.  What this book is is a quick,  entertaining read with a likeable character who the reader comes to care  for.  A beach book or a book for when you're snowed in is what comes to  mind.<br />  I've read his other books, also sold here at Amazon and liked  them enough to seek this one out.  Give it a try, I think you'll like it.	2000-08-09
US	50143797	R1D5VQF4EFS7MP	0440224012	933000105	Heartwood (Billy Bob Holland)	Books	4	32	34	N	N	James Lee Burke and Billy Bob Holland Are Back In Top Form	I have to say that I was somewhat suspicious of James Lee Burke after having read CIMARRON ROSE.  His new main character, Billy Bob Holland seemed to be just a Texas version of Dave Robicheaux and Deaf Smith, Texas  was a poor substitute for New Iberia, LA.  But I stuck with the book and  overcame my intitial reservations.  While the similarities are there and  very palpable, if one has never read the Robicheaux series, then the Billy  Bob character is as new and alive as any character readers are likely to  meet in popular fiction today.<br />    The second installment in this  parallel series is called HEARTWOOD and in it, James Lee Burke continues to  delve into the psyche of Billy Bob Holland and the lives of various  miscreants he comes across in the small Texas town he calls home.          HEARTWOOD does not differ from previous JLB offerings.  The prose is  alternatively lush and spare.  The descriptions of places and people are  without peer.  Whether it is New Iberia, LA or Deaf Smith, TX, James Lee  Burke's descriptions are so well constructed that I can imagine myself in  either location and viewing the action of the story as it takes place  around me.  That is a technique that Burke is a master of and he retains  that stylistic approach in HEARTWOOD.<br />    It would be easy to say that  HEARTWOOD is a continuation of CIMARRON ROSE and that Burke is just  expanding on that novel's previously offered theme.  Some readers might  find it so.  But what Burke does so well is explore classic American  literary themes.  In these two books, it happens to be the struggles  between the haves and the have-nots; the rich and the poor.  Deaf Smith,  Texas is a study in contrasts.  There are those who have money, creature  comforts, status, prestige and power and then, there are those who have  none of the above.  To contrast the two ends of the spectrum, Burke even  geographically juxtaposes the groups by placing them at opposite sides of  the town.  <br />    Burkeis and always will be a master at creating  characters antagonistic to the order of the rest of society.  In  HEARTWOOD,that person is Earl Deitrich, a man who has made his life's work  (and fortune) by stomping people who get in his way.  His wealth has bought  him power and he is a man totally unafraid to use that power to whatever  advantage he thinks he is entitled to.<br />    As in the Robicheaux novels,  the main character, Billy Bob Holland has a past that he is trying to live  down.  Once a Texas Ranger and Assistant U.S. Attorney, Billy Bob has taken  to defending the lesser elements of society; they are the people who  violate the law as easily as the rest of us turn on a light.  Many are  people who are criminals through the accident of not having enough common  sense to realize that what they are doing violates all normal standards.   Billy Bob and Burke show a world weary sympathy for the folks in this  category and it is another feature continued from previous books.<br />     Burke always provides a paradox in his novels, however.  While Billy Bob  may defend the sociopathic members of society, Burke points out that the  well-to-do are not without their own monsters, too.  Scions of powerful  fathers tend not to be nice people in the books of James Lee Burke and Earl  Deitrich's son Jeff is no different.<br />    Burke always supplies his  readers with a large cast of characters to keep track of.  But what he does  so well and continues here is that he delivers well-realized people.  The  good folks are the ones you root for. The vile ones are the folks you hope  he kills off.  Of course, that doesn't always happen either, so there are  few (if any) plot gimmicks that would make these stories all too tidy.<br />     Readers of the Robicheaux series root for Dave, Bootsie, Alafair, Batist  and Helen.  In HEARTWOOD, readers will root for Billy Bob, Lucas Smothers,  Pete and Temple Carroll.  It was nice being able to transfer sympathetic  feelings foranother set of characters in this new location.<br />    Burke  also retains one of the features from CIMARRON ROSE that I found annoying  and that was the use of conversations between Billy Bob and his dead  partner L.Q. Novarro.  While not as noticeable as in CIMARRON ROSE, they  are still there and somehow this time, I found them less intrusive and  annoying.  I think that Burke retained them and uses them to remind his  readers that we all have little foibles that haunt us from time to time and  sometimes these hang-ups are mysterious to others.  They are however, what  make each of us individuals.  Billy Bob is a flawed human being just like  the rest of us.  He is looking for respite and redemption but the crazies  in Deaf Smith just won't give him a chance.<br />    I still think that James  Lee Burke is showing us the less attractive side of America.  HEARTWOOD is  no different than his previous works in that regard.  What it does do  exceedingly well is explore a man's limits and his sense of personal honor  and integrity.  Just like Dave Robicheaux, Billy Bob Holland is a man of  action but no longer one of barely restrained violence. While I once  thought they were two sides of the same coin, I now realize that I must  modify my opinion.  Dave and Billy Bob are more cousins than they are  brothers.  The brotherly part only comes to the fore when th reader  realizes that both man stand for doing the right thing.<br />    The Billy Bob  Holland novels ARE NOT the Dave Robicheaux stories despite the similarities  and the imitative plot devices.  I recommend that readers of HEARTWOOD  forget Dave Robicheaux and read this book as if they had never read any  others by JLB.  When you do, you'll realize that James Lee Burke really is  at the top of his form and is the undisputed master of this genre.<br />     Read HEARTWOOD as a stand alone and judge it on that basis.  If you do  that, without comparing this series to the one containing Dave Robicheaux,  then Ithink you'll find this to be a most enjoyable read.<br />Paul Connors	2000-07-12
US	50143797	R13STJSDC19N0T	0385480431	490562585	Time to Hunt	Books	5	1	1	N	N	The Best of the &quot;Bob the Nailer&quot; Books	Stphen Hunter has topped himself.  This is the best installment yet involving Bob Lee &quot;The Nailer&quot; Swagger.  Stephen Hunter has done an outstanding job of resprising this character and leading his readers  down the path to anting more and more. He has also done a very effective  job of tying together all the pieces of the story involving Swagger, his  father and others who come out of the rural Arkansas landscape of these  novels.<br />   Bob Lee Swagger is a retired Marine Gunnery Sergeant and one  of the finest snipers to come out of the war.  Hunter pays tribute to the  best, GySgt Carlos Hathcock (who passed away recently from complications of  MS).  Hunter paints Swagger as a loner, an expert shot, a brilliant  battlefield tactician and an accomplished planner and leader.  He provides  the background on his Vietnam experiences and puts him into an almost  indefensible position from which to extricate himself.<br />    Stephen Hunter  is the master of this sub-genre and I hope that TIME TO HUNT will not be  the last we hear of Bob The Nailer.	2000-07-12
US	50143797	R32999YMW87PZW	0743412826	318175385	Spartacus (Star Trek: The Next Generation)	Books	4	6	10	N	N	When One Man Says No, All Rome Begins To Tremble...	This is it; the book that launched the movie starring Kirk Douglas as Spartacus.  An illiterate Thracian slave (now the European part of Turkey), he would go on to lead the most serious of the servile insurrections  against the tyranny and might of Rome.<br />  They were heady times for the  Romans of wealth and power.  They were terrible times for those they  conquered and forced into slavery.  What Howard Fast points out is that  while the wealthy and powerful enslaved many, it was the entire system that  was corrupt and deserved to be destroyed.  Fast was himself a controversial  figure; one of the many blacklisted for refusing to name names of  Communists in Hollywood before the House Un-American Activities Committee,  he spent time in jail and saw his career all but ruined.<br />  Some years  after completing SPARTACUS he was able to sell it and eventually it became  a movie. This is a novel about the triumph of the human spirit.  This is a  story of heroism and greatness in a low-born man with none of the  advantages of the men he would later fight.  All he sought was freedom, but  Rome could not abide that.  The challenge to their authority was  unthinkable and the fact that an army of slaves stood against them meant  that their entire world and belief system had been challenged.<br />  Fast  does a wonderful job of describing Spartacus as a simple man with simple  tastes and needs. Yes, he was a gladiator and a warrior-general.  But he  was also a man of his word and Fast never lets the reader forget it.  There  is an integrity and simplicity to all of the characters but the Romans.  It  is obvious where Fast's allegiances are.<br />  I read this book recently  after only having seen the movie.  But I had read the entire Lavette family  saga and knew that I had to read the genesis for the movie Spartacus.  I  was not disappointed although I always reminded myself that Fast's leftist  views were not my own.  When Fast concentrates on the greatness of the  individual person or spirit, he soars to heights of genius.  But when he  regales the reader with the value of the slave army simply because it  exists, he shows his political leanings.  The mob is never the answer and  wealthy people are not the enemy simply because they possess wealth and  capital.  Fast forgets that and it comes out in the novel.  When the reader  remembers that Fast did have an agenda, then the preaching goes down a  little easier.  It's also good to remember that many of the revolutionary  groups of the early to mid-20th century used the word Spartacus in one  shape or fashion as part of their nomenclature.  The dignity and heroism of  Spartacus' character deserved better than that.<br />  All in all,  an  entertaining and somewhat informative read; if for no other reason than to  come to appreciate that it was the Romans themselves who were really the  &quot;barbarians.&quot;e  individual person or spirit, he soars to heights of genius.  But when he  regales the reader with the value of the slave army simply because it  exists, he shows his political leanings.  The mob is never the answer and  wealthy people are not the enemy simply because they possess wealth and  capital.  Fast forgets that and it comes out in the novel.  When the reader  remembers that Fast did have an agenda, then the preaching goes down a  little easier.  It's also good to remember that many of the revolutionary  groups of the early to mid-20th century used the word Spartacus in one  shape or fashion as part of their nomenclature.  The dignity and heroism of  Spartacus' character deserved better than that.<br />   All in all,  an  entertaining and somewhat informative read; if for no other reason than to  come to appreciate that it was the Romans themselves who were really the  &quot;barbarians.&quot;	2000-07-12
US	50143797	R3J22IQ6PCNKL9	0312964471	508239738	Sweepers	Books	5	14	15	N	N	Gripping Thriller Keeps You Wondering	The novel begins with what appears to be a routine police investigation into what may or not be an accidental death.  A beautiful woman is dead and her former boyfriend, a frocked Rear Admiral (lower half)assigned to the  navy staff at the Pentagon may or may not be a suspect.<br />    The young  admiral, who had served in Vietnam years before as the skipper of a Swift  boat plying the tributaries of the Mekong River has something of a past.   His marriage ended in divorce like so many other military marriages.  His  only son, a real dirtbag and loser hates him and wants revenge.  So does  the ex-Navy SEAL who feels that young Lieutenant Sherman left him for dead  so many years before.<br />   As the case gets murkier, an old friend and  mentor of RADM Sherman dies of a heart attack.  Is it really a heart attack  or a well disguised murder which hints at further retribution?<br />   The  Navy and local police get involved and the Judge Advocate General of the  Navy (the JAG) also gets involved by assigning a female lawyer on the verge  of retirement and an NIS (Naval Investigative Service) agent to the case.   Things become very complicated very quickly and more than just Admiral  Sherman begin to find themselves in jeopardy and facing real risks.<br />    Since his first novel, SCORPION IN THE SEA, Peter Deutermann has only  improved as a writer and storyteller.  His former career as a Surface  Warfare Officer, Arms Negotiator and Senior Staff Officer provided him with  both an excellent background and volumes of material from which to draw his  stories.  He writes very well and provides his readers with all of the  information necessary to understand the arcane ways in which the  operational and staff sides of the Navy work on a day-to-day basis.  He  also fully develops his characters.  While he doesn't do so too quickly, he  provides just enough information on each of them to keep the reader  wondering  just what else he has in store for them.  He also lets thereader hang just long enough until he drops the next vital piece of info.   It is my  opinion that Peter  Deutermann has become a master of pacing and  tension building and he has done much to create his own sub-genre in the  larger arena of military and techno-thrillers.  Call it the naval mystery  if you will but understand that this specialized type of fiction belongs to  Deutermann and Deutermann alone.<br />    I heartily recommend this book and  all of the others by this fine writer.  His other books are NOT part of a  series so it does not matter what order you read them in.  If you like(ed)  SWEEPERS then try OFFICIAL PRIVILEGE; it's where Captain Deutermann segued  off and started writing naval mysteries.<br />    His other books are all  excellent, too and will provide many hours of suspenseful but enjoyable  reading.  I hope he continues to write for years to come.  BZ Captain  Deutermann!  Thank you for many hours of reading enjoyment.	2000-07-05
US	50143797	R2O6J0EXMEC7M0	0312953968	233973922	The Edge of Honor	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Stand-by,  Execute!	Well, Captain P.T. Deutermann USN (Ret) has done it again.  He has written another well thought-out military thriller that also has all the ingredients of a good mystery.  With each book released, he just gets  better and better.<br />   LT Brian Holcomb is a young surface warfare officer  who is trying to undo the damage of a potentially career-ending fitness  report.  Attempting to do so, he takes an assignment to a guided missile  cruiser, the USS JOHN BELL HOOD.  Once aboard, he realizes that he will  have his hands full.  Drug abuse is rampant and as those of us who remember  1969 can attest, the American war effort was already universally reviled by  civilians and military people alike.<br />   LT Holcomb leaves behind his wife  Maddy who is beginning to feel the stirring of restlessness and the desire  to be her own person.  She realizes as she embarks on a career as a banker  that she does not need to be the good little Navy wife and stand by her  man.  She does not need to be Mrs. &quot;Lieutenant&quot; Holcomb to have a  life of her own making.<br />    But Brian is at war and the USS JOHN BELL  HOOD is on the firing line in the South China Sea.  Mr Deutermann does an  outstanding job of describing life at sea during those unpopular war years.   He knows from whence he speaks, having commanded a cruiser himself.<br />     Mr Deutermann served his country in the Navy for more than 25 years.  He  has captured the essence of that service and what sacrifices are made by  service members to a &quot;T.&quot;  If anyone doubts what naval service  during the Vietnam War meant, I recommend that they read this book.  It is  a great look into that period of time and what it meant to value duty,  honor and country.<br />   Brian Holcomb is a fine character and a better  junior officer than he gave himself credit for.  Peter Deutermann did a  great job with all of the characterizations in this book, but especially  Holcomb's Commanding Officer.  I would go so far as tosay that if schools  around the country pick a naval story to replace THE CAINE MUTINY in their  American Lit classes, then this should be the one. But don't take my word  for it, read this book and you'll be hooked.  You'll go looking for the  backlist of all the books by Peter Deutermann and you won't be  disappointed.<br />    Thank you Captain Deutermann for another great read.   BZ from a former paratrooper.	2000-07-05
US	50143797	R162JR6RO17FU3	0451187849	922642678	We the Living: Anniversary Edition	Books	5	40	41	N	N	Kira Argounova - A Heroine For the Ages!	This was the first of Rand's novels to sell fairly well commercially.  Initially it did well in Europe and less so in the USA.  When the first printing was sold out in the USA, the plates were destroyed and it went out  of print for close to 20 years before the combined success of THE  FOUNTAINHEAD and ATLAS SHRUGGED cried out for its re-publication in the  United States.<br />    There is much truth in other reviewers comments here  that this book seems to be written so differently than Rand's later novels.   I will not disagree with anyone on that.  Along with ANTHEM and a play  titled THE NIGHT OF JANUARY 16th, Rand used WTL as a laboratory to express  her anti-totalitarian ideas in English and in novel form.  It should be  remembered that Rand came here as a penniless Russian immigrant.  She  initially lived with relatives in Chicago and then made her way to Los  Angeles where she earned her way (and began to write).<br />   Rand herself  said that this book was the closest she would ever come to writing an  autobiography.  Obviously, Kira is an idealized fictional symbol of all  that Rand held to be virtuous and worth aspiring to.  She conflicts good  and evil and in the process, we see that even though Kira idolizes freedom  (both political and economic), she cannot accept contradictions in the man  she has chosen to love.<br />   This novel portrays  the impact of the  Bolshevik Revolution on the lives of three people.  Three people who meant  very little to the totalitarian Soviet state and the Communist Party  but  as individual Russians, living through that dark midnight that almost  extinguished hope in the hearts of the Russian people, Kira, Leo and Andrei  are as alive as any of the classic characters found elsewhere in important  literature.<br />   Kira comes to the story as part of an affluent Russian  family that loses everything after the Bolsheviks seize power during  &quot;kraznaya Oktobriana.&quot;  After the Bolsheviks expropriate all of  theirproperty for the &quot;good of the proletariat,&quot; their lives  change dramatically.  Kira, who wanted to be a builder loses her chance for  continued education and position because she will not conform to the new  &quot;Soviet ideal.&quot;<br />   Eventually, she meets Leo Kovalensky, a  Russian aristocrat who stands unbowed before the altar of Soviet justice.   He refuses to recognize the hegemony of the new system over any aspect of  his life.  Kira, admiring this fierce individuality, falls for Leo and  comes to stand by his side.  She  knows that she has met her &quot;Viking  god.&quot;<br />    Andrei Taganov is the ultimate instrument of the Soviet  state.  He wears a leather jacket and carries all the authority of the new  dictatorship.  In ages past, he would have worn the helmet of a Roman  Centurion or the armor of a crusading knight.  But always, he would have  been the symbol of some governmental oppression.  He is a born secret  policeman in a system that required men all too willing to torture and  imprison their fellow men.<br />   As Rand writes about the early Soviet  system, it is obvious that this novel could have been set in any system  that denied individual freedom.  Rand chose to write about Soviet Russia  because it was what she knew.  Similar stories could have come out of  Fascist Italy or Nazi Germany.  Rand chose Russia.<br />   This is a story of  what happens to people when all freedom is lost.  It is a marvelous tale of  people who struggle valiantly against insurmountable odds to maintain their  individuality, dignity and freedom.  It is a moral allegory of just what  happens to the human spirit when the individual is subjugated to the  mind-numbing and degrading indignities imposed from above by second-handers  who created nothing but only denied everything.<br />   This is one of the  finest novels of its type that you will ever read.  It is worth reading,  especially if the reader has already read THE FOUNTAINHEAD and ATLAS  SHRUGGED if for no other reason than to discover Rand's starting point. If  you have not read any of Rand's other works then, this is a great place to  start.  WTL is where she began to formulate her ideas on the ultimate value  of the individual and the worth of the reasoning human intellect.<br />   To  be sure, this is an indictment on the danger to mankind everywhere on the  depredations of any collective system.  This is an unapologetic damnation  of Communism as it was then and what it eventually became.  Rand has no  mercy and shows no compassion or willingness to understand why men and  women would give up themselves to be part of a system that denies basic  rights and degrades the individual.<br />    Read this book and you will come  to understand why Communism was ultimately destined to fail.  It failed  because it collapsed under the weight of its own inherent internal  contradictions.  We are all the more fortunate that Rand saw all of this so  clearly early on.  We are even more fortunate that her predictions for the  ultimate demise of Communist tyranny came true and that individual  ploitical and economic freedom have taken root throughout countries that  once denied even the slightest scintilla of personal liberty.<br />   Read WE  THE LIVING and discover one of the most original minds in the 20th Century.	2000-06-29
US	50143797	R3AWUD8QK7G07S	0451191706	544693269	Critical Conditions: An Alan Gregory Thriller	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Kirkus IS WRONG!  This is another Winner from Stephen White	...CRITICAL CONDITIONS is another engaging and faced paced psychological thriller from Stephen White...White writes with the typical spare prose that readers have discovered in his previously  published Alan Gregory novels.  He continues with that style very  effectively in CRITICAL CONDITIONS.<br />    White reunites his readers with  the characters fans of this series have come to know and root for.  Of  course, there is Alan Gregory himself.  There's Adrienne, Lauren Crowder,  Alan's wife, Sam Purdy and Emily the Gregory's &quot;bouvier des  Flandres&quot; who is always happy when Alan walks through the front  door.<br />   In this series installment, Alan is called in to treat the mute  and suicidal teenager who may or may not be responsible for the murder of  the CEO of a managed care insurance company.  It just so happens that this  CEO, an MD before becoming a very successful business executive, heads the  company that has denied experimental treatment to the younger sister of  Merritt Strait. Chaney Strait, a little girl with a rare viral disease of  the heart muscle has been denied care pioneered by doctors in Seattle.  The  new procedure is experimental and extremely expensive.  It is obvious that  this fictional managed care company, known as MedExcel, is the villain  because money is really the root of the issue.  They don't want to pay it  out for something that may or may not save the life of little Chaney  Strait.  What every reader knows however, is that without the procedure,  little Chaney has absolutely NO CHANCE at all. <br />   In the process of  revealing the plot to the reader, White also points out that his  &quot;slowly becoming closer friend&quot; Sam Purdy has family ties to the  Trent/Strait family.  You see, Sam is related by marriage to Brenda Strait  (the news anchor mom of Merritt and Chaney).  Sam's wife Sherry is Brenda  Strait's estranged younger sister.  John Trent, Brenda's husband and the  father of the critically ill Chaney islike Alan Gregory, also a clinical  psychologist.<br />   In his usual fashion, White adds twists and  complications to the plot line and the lives of his main characters.  It's  what makes these books so interesting and gripping.  While they are labeled  psychological thrillers, in many cases these stores by Stephen White  possess all of the elements needed to make them great police procedural  novels, too.<br />   In his &quot;other&quot; life, Stephen White is also a  clinical psychologist and despite his recent successes as an author, still  practices in and around Boulder, Colorado.  From the tone and the positions  taken by Alan Gregory, it is obvious that in his professional life, Stephen  White has had problems with managed care companies.  He voices those  dislikes through the person of his main character Dr. Alan Gregory.  What I  did have a little bit of difficulty with was his tendency to constantly  &quot;harp&quot; on the insurance companies and make them ALL sound like  villains.  Everyone knows that most Americans detest managed care and the  companies that administer the policies of them.  I don't think White needed  to remind us every few pages that he would have to fight with MedExcel to  cover Merritt's treatment and possibly to receive reimbursement.  My guess  is, White was stiffed a time or two and used this novel as a way to make  his point.<br />    That minor criticism notwithstanding, this was a  fast-paced and enjoyable read.  Critics of managed care will like it even  more than the average reader because Gregory's/White's views will be their  own.  The characters he provides in the story are people who could be just  like the rest of us.  Many readers may well have horror stories of their  own to tell.  This story DOES read like it came from any number of cases in  recent headlines and that's what makes it so timely, effective and  believable.<br />    Like many other writers of popular fiction these days,  Stephen White doesn't flood his narrative with wordiness.  His prose is  spare and effective.  He is consistent from one book to the next and he  does an outstanding job of building on the recurring characters his fans  are already familiar with.  Although the Alan Gregory novels are part of a  recurring series, it is not absolutely necessary for the reader to read  them in the order written; although I recommend that they do for the sake  of continuity and understanding.<br />    I have not been disappointed with  this series or its author and I look forward to each new installment.  I  think that speaks well of an author and there is nothing about CRITICAL  CONDITIONS not to like.  Although I have not read them yet, I look forward  to reading his next two works, MANNER OF DEATH and COLD CASE.	2000-06-26
US	50143797	R37Z5S97XRLXT1	0446353205	522252231	The Charm School	Books	5	2	2	N	N	The Beginning of a Beautiful Friendship.....	This was the first Nelson DeMille novel I read and it was the one that got me hooked. I went back and read his backlist and then, like so many other readers, waited for each new release from this author from Long Island.<br />    I read this book before he became really, really popular and wondered to  myself why he wasn't more so at that time.  When I read WORD of HONOR  immediately after this book, I wondered even more.<br />   Needless to say,  this is a very fine addition to the spy-novel novel genre.  Colonel Sam  Hollis, a military officer serving in an intelligence role as the Air Force  Attache in the US Embassy in Moscow before the fall of the Iron Curtain is  a believable character.  The premise behind the novel, where American  prisoners from the Vietnam and earlier wars have been retained by the  Communists to 'train' their agents to become sleepers inside the USA is at  once acceptable and horrifying.  It was not too much of a leap where the  reader would have to suspend disbelief.  It actually made sense and DeMille  presents it in such a way so that there would be no doubt that the KGB  probably did run a &quot;Charm School&quot; for its deep penetration  agents.<br />    DeMille has a great way of also introducing enemies for the  main character in each of his novels.  He does not deviate from that policy  here.  Sam Hollis' enemies are both domestic (i.e. American) and  international (the KGB).  Along the way Sam picks up a friend or two and a  new love interest, too.<br />    There are a couple of tricky moral questions  introduced into the plot and DeMille handles them in ways that I didn't  always like, but which I accepted as necessary to continue the story line.  The answers to gray area questions notwithstanding, I enjoyed this novel  immensely and it was this enjoyment that set me out looking for other works  by this prolific and entertaining author.<br />   As Humphrey Bogart as Rick  Blaine says to Claude Rains  as Inspector Reynaud at theend of CASABLANCA,  &quot;Louis, this is the beginning of a beautiful friendship...&quot;  I  thought the same thing of this writer after making his acquaintance through  CHARM SCHOOL.  I knew that it was the beginning of a beautiful friendsip. I  have had many hours of reading enjoyment because I discovered Nelson  DeMille with this novel. Read CHARM SCHOOL and his other works, especially  the earlier ones and you'll find out why.  Read THE GOLD COAST, PLUM ISLAND  and LION'S GATE and you'll be hooked like the rest of us.<br />    I recommend  DeMille's books to anyone who likes intrigue, suspense, sarcastic and witty  characters and a rollicking good story. After reading him, you will, too.	2000-06-24
US	50143797	RSGESZE7QGT07	0786866004	547917110	Red Light (Merci Rayborn)	Books	5	39	40	N	N	Merci Rayborn is Back!	I was surprised and not so surprised that T. Jefferson Parker brought back Merci Rayborn.  After all, the ending for the book that introduced her,  THE BLUE HOUR all but demanded that she return.<br />   In this book, Merci is  two years older and still mourning the loss of her partner (and father to  her son) Tim Hess.  She has named her little boy after his father and is  now involved with another detective sergeant on the Orange County (CA)  Sheriff's department, Mike McNally.<br />    Parker provides the reader with a  multi-leveled mystery and police procedure novel that uses spare but biting  prose to make its point.  In this story, Merci Rayborn, a single mother and  crack homicide investigator is involved in two homicide investigations.   One is current and may involve her fellow officer and lover, Mike McNally  and the other is over thirty years old and involves the murder of a  prostitute who had had connections with local political and law enforcement  officials.<br />    In the more recent of the murder cases, Merci initially  investigates the death of another young prostitute, this one who also had  conections, but those closer to home.  Initial evidence begins to point to  Merci's erstwhile lover and would-be husband.  Merci, never one to shy away  from pursuing justice or the truth follows the trail of evidence with a  dedication bordering on fanatical. More and more, the evidence points at  Mike McNally.  But is he really the killer or is he being framed?  And if  so, by whom?<br />    I have read almost all of Parker's previous novels and  have enjoyed them all.  His common denominator is the setting, Orange  County, CA.  However, with each new book installment, he shows that he has  climbed rapidly into the ranks of true masters in this genre.  He is spare  with his prose and in this he makes me think of what Hemingway would have  been like had he written mysteries and police stories.  He gives us flawed  but interesting characters.  Some we come to like and have hopes for and  others we don't.  I have to say that I did NOT like Merci Rayborn when I  read THE BLUE HOUR.  But perhaps motherhood, the loss of Tim Hess and the  personal and political problems she faces in the Sheriff's Department have  mellowed her to the point that she has become more human and less  disagreeable.  In RED LIGHT, for all of her flaws and self-doubts, Parker  has made her a much more agreeable and yes, a more sympathetic  character.<br />    This book has some slow points and then, the plot and the  level of action pick up.  I do not know if this was a deliberate device by  Parker or not but either way, the book does become a page turner.  When  Merci must decide for herself whether Mike McNally is guilty or being  framed is where the book really took off.  It is where  I knew that Parker  had planned and timed the story line for just such a reason.<br />    Parker's  intimate knowledge of police procedures is displayed at its best in this  novel. His former career as a journalist and his extensive background in  the history of Orange County also serve him well in RED LIGHT.  Although  this is the first time that he has used a recurring character, I hope it  will not be his last.  Merci Rayborn still has a lot to say and I hope Mr.  Parker will let her speak in upcoming works.<br />    Thank you Mr. Parker for  many hours of enjoyable reading.  I hope you won't dispense with Merci  Rayborn just yet.  I'd like to think of her as your version of Robert B.  Parker's SPENSER.  And we all know how many novels he has mined from that  character.  I look forward with anticipation to your next novel and hope  that we will all see one or more adapted for the screen.<br />Paul Connors	2000-06-20
US	50143797	R1PI2A6WG2W3A5	0312202873	123394648	China Sea (Dan Lenson Novels)	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Poyer and LCDR Dan Lenson Are Back In Top Form!	This is a great READ!   After a middling disappointment with Poyer's last novel, TOMAHAWK, I had the opportunity to write to him and explain why I had trouble with the premise behind the plot in that book.  He had  dropped me a note and told me he was sorry I didn't like it and hoped I  would like CHINA SEA better.  Well, I'm here to say that I did and I WILL  NOT HESITATE TO SAY SO!<br />    In CHINA SEA, both David Poyer as author and  LCDR Dan Lenson are back in top form.  The time is 1990 and Dan Lenson is  ordered to Philadelphia Naval Shipyard to relieve the CO of a Knox Class  frigate, the USS GADDIS.  The current skipper is an alcoholic and almost  out of control and the ship is scheduled for decommissioning and transfer  to the Pakistani Navy.  Early in the book, Poyer describes in detail the  problems of the handover and the lack of skill of the Pakistani captain.   In one particular incident, he describes a small lube oil fire that sends  the Pakistani engine room crew for the lifeboats.  Their officers are not  far behind.  A small skeleton crew of Americans fights the fire, puts it  out and waits for the return of the ship's new owners.  Reading Poyer's  description of the Pakistani captain's shiphandling skills is humorous and  painful at the same time.  There are several incidents that will make  former USN readers cringe when they read them and make the same reader glad  that competent seafarers like Lenson are aboard to help.<br />      Approximately 1/4 of the way through this story, Poyer introduces a nice  little twist.  It coincides with the arrival of the former USN frigate in  its new homeport in Pakistan.  Lenson and the MTT (military transition  team) receive orders that the transfer has been cancelled and the USA is  again taking custody of the ship.  Lenson receives verbal orders from the  naval attache in Islamabad to take possession of the ship and steam for  Singapore.  There are problems, though.  He has too small a crew, no money  andno ammunition for the 5 inch gun or the 20 mm and 40mm guns that the  Pakistanis had installed.  He steams out of port nonetheless.  In Singapore  he picks up some bottom of the barrel replacements but still not quite a  full ships's company.  He also gets a naval reserve officer sent to the Far  East for his annual training.  Also a LCDR, he will prove his worth because  of his intelligence background and the fact that while on active duty, he  was a comptent surface warfare officer.<br />   There is another stroke of  genius in Poyer's writing that adds a complication to the novel's plot and  Dan Lenson's life as the CO of &quot;GADDIS.&quot; There is a serial killer  aboard.  It seems that everywhere the ship goes, it leaves horribly mangled  dead women behind it.  How Lenson solves this mystery adds immeasureably to  the overall success of the entire book and I think readers will ponder long  after they've finished Lenson's final resolution when the murderer is  identified.<br />   Along the way, GADDIS becomes part of a multi-national  task force designed to ferret out and destroy pirates in the oceans between  Singapore and the Chinese island of Hainan.  The TNTF for &quot;tiny  nations task force&quot; is composed of elements of the Singaporean,  Indonesian, Malaysian and Phillipine Navies.  Each nation contributes a  ship and some are more capable than others.  Poyer does an outstanding job  of describing the difficulties of managing such an ad hoc force, especially  one that is hampered by dissimilar capabilities, equipment and  communications.  While the GADDIS packs most of the combat punch of this  force, Lenson must constantly keep an eye on his fuel gauges and remember  that he is seriously lacking in ammunition for his main battery.<br />     Poyer doesn't miss a trick and reminds the reader that the sea is a  dangerous and unforgiving place.  He also introduces typoons into the  equation.  The reader knows with this book that being the commanding  officer of a naval ship sent in harm's way is much more demanding a job  than anyone can ever begin to imagine.  Poyer's description of Lenson's  thought processes and the pressures he must deal with are masterful. This  book becomes and remains a page turner from the time that Lenson reassumes  command of the ship in Pakistan.<br />    As Lenson and GADDIS deal with their  various &quot;minor&quot; problems, major ones begin to surface.  The crew  of GADDIS is one that is thrown together and the enlisted personnel are not  the cream of the crop.  Lenson has a very small wardroom and an executive  officer that he cannot count on.  He must still also find out who among his  crew is the killer.  There are several false starts in his investigation  before the culprit is finally revealed.  While I realized where he was  taking the investigation, I did not at first suspect who the author  reveals.  I think Poyer did a fine job of concealing that identity until  the last moment.<br />    This is sea story, a lesson in international power  politics and a murder mystery all wrapped up in a tight and tidy package.   There are good characters and bad ones.  What I liked is that while Dan  Lenson is not a perfect person, he never loses his moral compass.  He is a  better officer and person than he gives himself credit for and that is what  makes reading about him so enjoyable.<br />    After having read this book, I  must say that I owe David Poyer an apology.  In my review of TOMAHAWK here  at Amazon, I told readers that I thought that novel should probably be  Lenson's last outing.  After reading CHINA SEA, I can honestly say that I  hope to see several more installments in the continuing saga of DAN LENSON,  USN.<br />   Thank you Mr. Poyer for a most enjoyable read.  I hope you'll  keep Dan Lenson around for more adventures at sea.  <br />   Fair winds and  following seas.	2000-06-16
US	50143797	R2Q6659H5Q84GQ	0060183691	674365631	Swimming to Catalina: A Novel	Books	5	20	21	N	N	Another Fast-paced Page Turner Starring Stone Barrington	Well, Stuart Woods did it again!  He provides his readers with another fast-paced page turner with his recurring character, Stone Barrington.  Fans of Stuart Woods know that Stone is a retired NYC police detective  turned lawyer.  While he does practice in the legal profession, he never  quite gets away from his past as a dedicated gumshoe and it is this  combination (along with other quirks) that makes him such a fascinating  character.<br />    In this installment, Woods reprises a character from the  immediately preceding DEAD IN THE WATER.  That person is Stone's erstwhile  lover Arrington Carter.  As readers of DITW know, Arrington never joined  Stone for their mid-winter Caribbean vacation.  Instead, she winds up  following actor Vance Calder to Hollywood and much to everyone's surprise,  Stone's included, she marries him.<br />    At the beginning of this novel,  Stone is called to California by Vance Calder, ostensibly to investigate  the disappearance of Arrington.  being the good detective that he is, Stone  complies with Vance's request.  Upon arrival, he is feted by studio bigwigs  and even cast as a lawyer in a movie (for which he is well paid despite his  inexperience as an actor and his short time on set and in front of the  camera).  Stone sallies forth and encounters several young women who seem  all too eager to bed him down.  Being the person he is, Stone is all too  willing to comply and he begins to sample the several sexual pleasures he  is offered by different women Woods introduces to the story.  In addition  to his sexual adventures, Stone also has several that could only be called  life-threatening.  He meets local mafia soldiers and they proceed to try to  get rid of him in a time-tested manner.  After reading that scene, it  becomes readily apparent how Woods chose his title.  Although his escape  from that precarious situation borders on implausible, I suspended  disbelief, knowing that the story would have a better ending because of  it.<br />     Throughought SWIMMING TO CATALINA, Stone functions as both  detective and lawyer.  Toward the end of the novel, Woods gives the reader  a treat as we get to see just how good a negotiator and advocate Stone  really is.  Stone has the opportunity to prevent his client, Vance Calder  from getting into trouble with the federal government while at the same  time, helping the same federal agencies crack murder and corruption  cases.<br />    During all of the wheelings and dealings, Stone also must come  to grips with the fact that he is still in love with Arrington despite the  fact that she is married to Vance Calder.  Another complication added to  the mix is that Arrington is pregnant and doesn't know whether Stone is the  father or her new husband is.  That mystery is not solved until the very  end.  Stone's reaction, while bittersweet shows that he is the better  man.<br />   Stuart Woods imbues Stone Barrington with several admirable  qualities while also showing him to be a man with certain well know  weaknesses.  The strong qualities are loyalty, a sense of justice and  fair-play and a need to see justice done.  He is also not above exacting  revenge when he feels it serves a purpose.<br />    I like Stone Barrington.   I believe that Stuart Woods could find many more story lines to use for him  much as Robert B. Parker continues to turn out spare but faced new novels  in his SPENSER series.  Done right, I think Woods could keep Stone  Barrington around for quite some time to come.  I hope he decides to do so.   If he does, I think I can safely say that the books will fly off the  shelves in bookstores everywhere.<br />    Thanks for another thoroughly  enjoyable read, Stuart.  Please keep Stone Barrington stories coming!	2000-06-14
US	50143797	RV3M79ZXYT1CQ	0786862882	338298919	The Blue Hour	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Parker Just Keeps Getting Better and Better!	There is the old cliche that says &quot;practice makes perfect.  Well, T. Jefferson Parker has six other novels that I know of to his credit and he just keeps getting better with each outing.<br />   THE BLUE HOUR, his latest  installment in the generally unrelated crime novels set in Orange County,  CA rings with a truth all its own.  Parker introduces two new but  completely disparate characters.  One I liked, respected and admired.  The  other, I didn't.  The first is Tim Hess, a 67 year old retired detective  called back into service to help solve some horribly gruesome murders.  He  is facing a death sentence of his own because he has already lost more than  half a lung to cancer and is awaiting with that patient acceptance, the  inevitable outcome.  He thinks of himself as a loser; he has been divorced  several times, is childless and alone as he enters the final phase of his  life.<br />    His new partner is Detective Merci Rayborn.  She is half his  age and a lot easier to look at.  In fact, some think of her as a beauty.   There's a problem with her though and her name is very inappropriate.  She  is not merciful and gives none.  She is difficult to be around, brash,  temperamental and unforgiving.  She seems to be singlehandely out to catch  and punish all the evildoers in Orange County.  If given her way, the  reader wonders not about her possibilities for success but just how long it  will take before she cleans up the entire state.<br />    There is a truly  horrible criminal antagonist in this novel.  He is the one committing the  unspeakable crimes.  He is the one Tim and Merci must stop.  What Parker  does with these characters and the spare but biting prose is nothing short  of masterful.  It is obvious that while these are imaginary characters,  Parker has met them (or variations thereof) in his former life as a  journalist in Orange County.<br />    Before the end of the book Parker  ensures that Merci and Tim will become lovers.  While somewhatimplausible  when taken out of context, I actually came to view it as inevitable.  Both  detectives are flawed characters who have never been able to make a  permanent connection to other people.  In the story, the author ensures  that they finally do (and I wondered if he didn't do so for the sake of Tim  Hess knowing that his time was finally coming to an end).<br />    Parker  writes with an intimate knowledge of police procedures.  He knows about the  types of criminals police officers deal with every day.  He knows how the  penal system sometimes fails to protect society from its most degenerate  predators.  As Joseph Wambaugh wrote almost 30 years ago in his debut novel  THE NEW CENTURIONS, it becomes readily apparent that the Tim Hesses and the  Merci Rayborn's may be all that stands between civilization and total  criminal chaos.  T. Jefferson Parker carries on the tradition of Wambaugh  by reminding us of that.  He also shows his respect and admiration for the  people who keep the barbarians at the gates from entering to wreak havoc  upon the citizens inside the walls of the citadel.<br />    Other reviewers  have said that this may well be Parker's best effort to date.  I'm not here  to dispute them.  I discovered Parker early on and have read just about  everything he's written.  This is an outstanding novel in this genre.  If  you haven't read any of his other works, don't worry.  Read this one first  and then go back and read some of his earlier efforts (such as LITTLE  SAIGON and LAGUNA BEACH).  They were good, exciting and enjoyable reads but  I think readers will be surprised and pleased to see just how far he has  come as a master of this genre and in such a relatively short period of  time.<br />   And if you liked this book, Merci Rayborn is reprised in  Parker's latest release RED LIGHT.<br />   Thank you Mr. Parker for many  enjoyable hours of reading pleasure.  Much continued success in the future  and I anxiously await your next effort.	2000-06-14
US	50143797	RXUB9QBI3NBO2	0380787865	746180499	Power Curve	Books	5	4	5	N	N	A Page Turning and Gripping Political Thriller	In the near future, the United States gets its first female President.  She is Madeline O'Keith Turner and she gets to the White House as a result of the death of her male predecessor (who turns out to be a traitor and betrayer of allies).  Maddy Turner is a widow with two young children with her when she becomes President. Her mother, a retird hair stylist, who is full of every day wisdom is also part of the cast.  Early in her Presidency, Maddy finds out that her running mate, his Secretary of State and the National Security Advisor sold out Taiwan to the Communists on the mainland.  Despite the fact that the reunification is basically a peaceful one, the imperial designs of the Red Chinese are blatantly presented to the inexperienced President and her advisers.  It is how this new leader of the Free World handles them, while fighting off internal intrigue in the Cabinet, the Congress and the Senate that makes this novel such an interesting study in domestic and international power politics.<br /> The author, Richard Herman, has written several other well constructed political and military thrillers.  He gets better with each outing. In POWER CURVE introduces a new character, Lt Gen Robert Bender, a career Air Force officer who has to play the tenuous game of balancing the needs of a new and inexperienced woman President with the obligations he has to his military superiors.  To Robert Bender, loyalty, honor and integrity are the watchwords by which he lives his life.  Herman does an outstanding job of defining this officer, his sense of mission, his loyalty to the nation and the Constitution.  The author also provides the reader with the political and military villains needed to keep the narrative tightly focused.  The Chinese leadership is shown to be imperialistic, opportunistic and totally commited to achieving their ends, which are total domination of the ocean areas around mainland China.<br /> After Taiwan is returned to mainland control via the nefarious machinations of several American politicians, the Chinese think that Maddy Turner will be a pushover. In the beginning of the story, she does appear that way.  What Herman does however, is provide her with a team of people who she can turn to and rely on.  Key among them is Lt Gen Bender, who must handle his military/political responsibilities while dealing with the death of his only child, a daughter who just happens to be a &quot;wizzo&quot; in the back seat of an F-15E Strike Eagle.  She graduated from the Air Force Academy like her dad and followed him into fighters and she died too young.  She is just part of what this man of honor and courage must deal with while trying to prevent nuclear war between China and Japan.<br /> Herman writes very well about military people. He also has a knack for writing about the sleazy side of politics and the gamesmanship that goes on in domestic and international politics.  I started this book on June 7th and finished on June 8th.  It held me that tightly.<br /> This is one of those books that can also be used as a moral allegory.  I met people in this novel that could be part of the government in Washington right now.  And although I do not agree with Maddy Turner's knee-jerk dislike for the military or her unwise decision to cut the defense budget 30% in two years, by the end of the novel, I must admit (grudgingly) that I had come to respect her. ......................<br /> While Maddy Turner despairs of ever having to use military force and is hesitant to the point of total inaction, ................... <br /> After reading POWER CURVE, I also realized that much of the story line could happen. Just look at recent headlines re: China and Taiwan independence.  Look at how the Chinese rattled their sabers.  If you want to read a plausible scenario for just what is possible in East Asia, then read POWER CURVE by Richard Herman.  It gave me hours of reading pleasure and another reminder that power is an incredibly addictive drug.  END	2000-06-08
US	50143797	RA7IJHN0IUD4V	0061093491	802931571	Dead in the Water	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Stuart, Keep Stone Stories Coming!	This is another Stuart Woods novel starring the  former detective turned lawyer Stone Barrington. If I remember correctly, he was  first introduced in NEW YORK DEAD, a novel that held me fast from start to finish.  I was  glad that Stuart Woods decided to make him a recurring character (and he  continues on again in SWIMMING TO CATALINA). Barrington saga, Woods has  Stone leaving NYC just before a terrible winter storm for what is supposed  to be a romantic vacation with his erstwhile new girlfriend and lover  Arrington.  The storm and other factors (namely a famous Hollywood actor)  prevent her from making the trip and instead, Stone finds himself embroiled  in the defense of a woman who sails her husband's sailboat into St Mark's  harbor less her husband.  The charge is murder and if Stone fails, his  defendant will hang.<br />   Woods keeps us going with his usual fast pace.   As Stone prepares his defense, he soon forgets the hurt of Arrington's  absence and becomes involved with his client.  That's another thing Stone  does well; he attracts women like a moth to a flame.  If a woman did what  Stone did, people would call her a slut.  When Stone does it, male readers  must think, &quot;what a lucky guy!&quot;<br />   The courtroom drama  continues and the tension heightens.  Stone has to deal with the political  aspirations of a native prosecutor who wants to be prime minister of the  tiny island nation (formerly a British colony).  But it makes for fast and  interesting reading.<br />   The ending is somewhat predictable and yet  somehow ironic.  Stone also loses someone he wants to stay connected with  and his vacation with Arrington never comes off because she doesn't make it  to St Mark's.  Woods did a credible job with that piece of the plotline  because it created an opening for the sequel SWIMMING TO CATALINA.<br />    Like most of his books, this was a very quick read.  But the tension is  there and it becomes his usual great page-turner and it also leaves the  reader hungry for more Stone Barrington.  I hope that Woods will keep the  Stone character alive for many more installments.  I think it would be  possible for him to mine enough stories so that Stone Barrington could  become Woods' version of Robert B. Parker's SPENSER.  There is no reason  why there shouldn't be a series just like Parker's and I think they would  be gobbled up as quickly as the SPENSER novels.<br />    Keep it up, Stuart  and please keep Stone around for a very long time.	2000-05-08
US	50143797	R3FQI4NIYXKUMX	0440225299	326768810	Numbered Account	Books	3	3	5	N	N	Not Bad For a Debut, But Still Needs Work	I bought this book because I had grown tired of all the standard formula thrillers.  Be they courtroom, military or espionage, they were all starting to wear a bit thin.  I saw NUMBERED ACCOUNT and thought that it might be a good way to get off the beaten path.  I had high hopes for it and for the most part, my expectations were met.  In others, they weren't.<br /> First let me say that this is not exactly a page turner.  There are parts that move quickly and then there are periods where the book lags so badly that I was tempted to put it down and pick up something else.  But I plodded along and stayed with it and as I approached the end, the pace picked up, the tension increased and I really became concerned that the main character, Nicholas Neumann would find his way through to the end.<br /> Nick is a fairly straightforward character.  Son of a Swiss banker father who is murdered when he is ten, he grows up in southern California, attends Cal State University at Northridge and goes on to become an officer in the Marine Corps.  But the Marine Corps almost becomes his undoing and he leaves to attend Harvard Business School.  At Harvard he meets his fiance and on the verge of success with her and his career, decides he must find out who killed his father 17 years before.<br /> This is the basis for the rest of the story.  Nick quits his job and gets another one with a Swiss bank that specializes in private banking.  His employer and the people he works with are not all they appear to be and Nick gets involved in the various intrigues of the office while trying to find out why his father was gunned down.<br /> Throughout all of this, Nick tries to adhere to his own moral code.  He is not as strong a character as others I have read in fiction but this is what makes him all the more interesting.  He is not without flaws, as the reader who discovers how his USMC career ended will discover. Throughout the novel, he maintains his integrity despite every roadblock he comesup against.<br /> This is a long book (with large print) that probably should have been shortened by 200 pages.  I thought that there were just too many segues off into unrelated areas and they did nothing to enhance the book.  In fact, they are the very plot gimmicks that slowed the pace and detracted from my enjoyment.<br /> Despite these comments, I enjoyed the book and would recommend it as beach reading or for readers who are snowed in.  I am curious to read Mr Reich's next release, THE RUNNER because the plot line seems to hold a lot of promise as Reich takes his readers back to the period just after WW II for a story that involves the Nuremberg Trials and the hunt for justice.<br /> I think that with time and effort Mr. Reich could easily develop into an accomplished writer of page-turning, nail-biting thrillers.  I'm willing to give him that chance and will do so with his next book.  END	2000-05-04
US	50143797	R2HIURRL2PP7DT	0312862962	110253438	God's Children	Books	5	7	7	N	N	The Quality of Leadership Is Everything....	Harold Coyle has written an excellent work on what it means tobe a small unit leader.  More importantly, he has written an excellent primer on what it means to be a leader, period. This book has other notable features, too.  Coyle does an outstanding job of keeping the Dixon military lineage alive and I noticed with some enjoyment that 1LT Nathan Dixon didn't stray too far from the family fold.  Instead of attending West Point, he followed in his father's footsteps and attended VMI.  He did deviate however, when he failed to follow his father into Armor branch, instead opting for the Infantry.<br /> As anyone who has ever served in the Army knows, the Infantry is where the American GI meets the enemy &quot;up close and personal.&quot; The Army 11B is the tip of the spear, the enforcer of all those foreign policy decisions made by men like Bill Clinton who didn't have the intestinal fortitude and moral fiber to do the job when they were called upon.<br /> Coyle does a great job describing the fears, doubts, hopes and apsirations of the small mech infantry platoon that becomes a &quot;lost patrol&quot; forced to survive in Indian country while performing a mission they weren't trained for for an uncaring and hostile populace.  This is the peacetime army.  This is the military that Slick Willie loathes.  This is the Army where the sons of affluent fathers no longer serve.  This is the Army where the infantry is now populated by kids trying to escape the barrio and the gangs. This is the United States Army that is becoming increasingly more separate from the society it is sworn to defend.  This is the U.S. Army of the 21st century, the very same one that the American people and their politicians choose to ignore because it reminds them of too many negative possibilities.<br /> In this novel, which was surprisingly short for Harold Coyle, the author captures all of the little things that make infantry service so unmistakable.  It has all of the little features that people who have never humped a &quot;ruck&quot; would never even think about.  There are the foot inspections by officers and NCOs, the worries about food, shelter, dry clothes and whether this small, isolated unit will ever rejoin its higher headquarters.  Coyle doesn't miss a thing and he doesn't let the reader dodge the responsibility of seeing what American infantrymen endure in the name of an ungrateful nation.<br /> Coyle gives us likeable and unlikeable characters.  He gives his reader a confident and experienced senior First Lieutenant, assigned as a second set of eyes to &quot;observe&quot; a newly arrived Second Lieutenant on his first patrol.  The dynamic between these two officers contributes to the ebb and flow of the story and provides the borders for the members of the platoon to operate in.<br /> This is not just a book about the conflict between two young lieutenants.  I was surprised to read that Coyle had painted the senior NCOs as having serious leadership deficiences and it made me realize that the only reason the men ever had any hope of getting home was because 1LT Nathan Dixon was along to shepherd them.  It made me wonder about the quality of junior and mid-grade NCO leadership in today's Army.  But that discussion is probably best left for another forum.<br /> All in all, this a book that should be required reading for every Army and Marine junior officer and NCO.  It is a valuable leadership primer contained within an entertaining novel.  I also hope that Coyle keeps this story line (or some variation thereof) and the characters alive in another installment.  END END	2000-04-04
US	50143797	R1F3R4MQ93H5BC	0451409086	855676768	Threat Vector	Books	5	23	27	N	N	All Ahead Flank for Another DiMercurio Winner!	Well, Michael DiMercurio has done it again!  Not only that, he topped his last achievement (PIRANHA FIRING POINT) with THREAT VECTOR, a novel that  shows that DiMercurio can keep a series alive, fresh and full of new ideas.   In addition, it could almost be said that THREAT VECTOR is the  &quot;logical&quot; extension of PIRANHA FIRING POINT, especially when it  becomes known to the reader early on, that the President has appointed  Patch Pacino as CNO (Chief of Naval Operations).<br />   This novel also has  some bittersweet elements as well.  When the Ukrainians sink an American  cruise ship carrying the Navy's senior officers, many characters we know  from previous installments become casualties.  I was sorry to read that  many of the characters I liked were gone.    About 1/3 of the way through,  DiMercurio shows that he also has a sense of humor, too.  He has named one  of the escorting destroyers the TOM CLANCY; read the novel and find out  what he does with this ship.<br />    Another thoroughly enjoyable aspect of  this book was the way in which Michael DiMercurio combines plausible future  developments with what we know is possible today.  The explanations and  descriptions of future technological advancements are masterful in their  simplicity.  The &quot;Devilfish&quot; as a weapons platform is something  that may not be available right now, but given the dramatic technological  leaps being made every day, it is not difficult to conceive its existence  18-20 years from now.<br />   Michael DiMercurio also pays a subtle tribute to  the naval traditions of the past.  If I didn't read incorrectly, he  re-introduces an officer uniform that the Navy did away with in the early  1970s.  I'm speaking specifically of the service dress khaki officer  uniform.  It had a khaki coat and instead of the officer insignia on the  sleeve cuff, the rank was carried on shoulder boards.  I always thought  that was a sharp uniform and it was a nice tribute to the USN of the past.   That was a nice segue, Michael and I liked the sneaky little way you  brought the uniform back.<br />    To be sure, this is a submarine story but  it also has all the elements of really good science fiction, too.  With  much of the technology future based, the reader is catapulted into a world  that isn't here yet, but could very well be in the near future.  Another  aspect is that the author has left certain little clues as to where he  might go with the next installment in this series.  Without giving too much  away, suffice it to say, that the reader will still have questions when he  finishes with this story.  They are good questions, though and the kind  that will leave the reader waiting to read TERMINAL RUN (which is the  working title of the next book in this series).<br />     As I have said in my  reviews of previous DiMercurio novels, this author is the master of this  genre.  If anyone cares to debate it, I'll meet them anytime, anywhere.   Tom Clancy's &quot;Hunt for Red October&quot; was written by a lucky and  gifted amateur.  The Michael DiMercurio novels are thrillers but they're  also a tibute to the men of the Silent Service, the same men that  DiMercurio served with from 1980-88.  Tom Clancy can't make that claim,  because he never served in ANY of the armed forces.<br />    There is an  injustice associated with Micahel DiMercurio's books, however and it is not  the author's fault.  I really believe that if Penguin Putnam marketed these  books differently (starting with hardcover and a much bigger advertising  budget) that Michael DiMercurio could have been (and still could be) as big  as Clancy or any of the other popular and best selling authors.  There is  no reason for this and in fact, more than one of the DiMercurio novels  should have ben made into  a movie.  After all, if CRIMSON TIDE, a movie  that came out 4-5 years ago could be a hit, ALL of DiMercurio's books  should have been considered for production.  IF the rest are stillignored,  Hollywood should not ignore THREAT VECTOR.  The plot premises are plausible  and foreseeable and the storyline would adapt well to the screen if for no  other reason than there would be a lot of action with believeable and  likeable characters.<br />    One other thing readers may find interesting  about this book.  The antagonists do some despicable things but by  themselves, they are not all that despicable as people.  The reader will  find himself feeling a certain amount of sympathy for the Ukrainian sub  captain.  To me, he was a worthy opponent for both Karen Petri and later,  Kelly McKee.  He was a captain placed in an extrememly awkward and delicate  position by an unscrupulous President.  How he leads his men, fights his  ship and makes his decisions all contribute to the make-up of a fascinating  character.  And once again, the critics are wrong; Michael DiMercurio  writes action filled sub stories but he also gives his readers well  developed characters.<br />   I apologize to the critics for my comments.  I  really do.  I just can't find anything NOT TO LIKE about this series and  the writer who created it.  If Michael DiMercurio is guilty of anything,  stories and hours of reading enjoyment.<br />    BZ Michael, you've done it  again!  I'm looking forward to TERMINAL RUN and to your mainstream fiction  when that hits the bookstores.  Thanks for another great read!	2000-04-04
US	50143797	R1ZOFBL2UQISG7	0451183681	795644022	Harm's Way (Alan Gregory)	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Alan Gregory Solves Another Tough One	Well, as far as I'm concerned, Stephen White has done it again.  He has provided me with another enjoyable and plausible whodunnit with just the right mix  of psychological tension and everyday police work.<br />   This is  also a  sad story because Alan happens to lose a man he considers his  friend.  What makes it worse, is that the friend he loses happens to be his  next door neighbor and the husband of another friend, Urologist Adrienne  Arvin.<br />    Peter Arvin has been in several of the other Alan Gregory  novels but this will obviously be his last.  His murder is not an isolated  one but rather, one that is part of a series.  Or is it?<br />    Stephen  White provides the reader with  additional history on Peter and background  that explains many things, especially the relationship he has with his  wife.  If ever a pair appeared mismatched, Peter and Adrienne were.  She is  a successful urologist but also outgoing and sarcastic in an east coast  sort of way.  Peter is more introverted and a very gifted carpenter, almost  more artist than craftsman.  Now that is all over.<br />   Behind him Peter  leaves his wife, who to be honest, doesn't appear to be overly aggrieved by  Peter's murder.  He also leaves an infant son. White introduces us to the  Arvin's au pair, Lisa who is more than she appears to be.  However, Alan  Gregory and the reader do not find out the whole truth until much later but  Lisa plays  a very significant role and is more than a nanny to young Jonas  Arvin.<br />    Throughout the book, Lauren Crowder, Alan's new wife continues  to support him and serve as a sounding board for his psychological  theories.  She also shows an uncanny knack for playing the sexual tease  just when Alan needs that outlet most.  White does a nice job of writing  about the Gregorys who, we find out at the beginning of this book are just  married.  That took me by surprise but then again, that's what you get for  reading the books in this series out of order.I enjoyed this book as  much as the others in the series and from here I head off to read CRITICAL  CONDITIONS.  I 'm looking forward to more time with Alan, Lauren, Sam  Purdy, Adrienne, little Jonas and the dog, Emily.	2000-03-17
US	50143797	R36JD2A19DH9P0	0786006242	498783528	Privileged Information	Books	4	73	73	N	N	It's Nice to Meet You Dr. Gregory	This is Stephen White's first Alan Gregory novel but for me, it was not the first one I read.  I suppose you could say that unfortunately for me, it came after having read REMOTE CONTROL, HIGHER AUTHORITY AND PRIVATE  PRACTICES.  As I write this I am working on HARM's WAY.  Let me just say  that I have enjoyed all of these books and my main regret is that I did not  read them in the order in which Mr. White wrote them.  I think that if I  had, I would have enjoyed them more.<br />    Reading Privileged Information  so out of sequence was somewhat unnerving because I already knew so much  about Alan Gregory, Lauren Crowder and Sam Purdy so I did not get to enjoy  meeting them for the first time in this book.  However, that is a minor  issue.<br />    In this first book of the series, Alan Gregory, a Boulder, CO  psychologist suspects one of his patients of murder and is almost ruined  professionally (and financially) by the death of another, who implicates  him in a sordid affair.  This patient, who killed herself, had previously  fixated on Alan Gregory but his problems are only beginning there.<br />   In  the year previously, Alan's wife left him, a patient died in a car wreck  and his dog was hit by a car.  He gets involved with Lauren Crowder and one  of his patients actually follows them on their vacation to New Mexico.<br />    Flash back to the present and Alan has to deal with the fact that he could  be a murder suspect and faces a possible lawsuit from the dead girl's  parents.  He also wonders if he will lose his professional license.  As I  read all of this I found myself asking, &quot;what did this poor guy ever  do to deserve this...?&quot;<br />    I think this is an excellent starter in  this series, especially for someone who has NEVER read any of the other  books written by Mr. White since. This is the book that lays the foundation  and provides the history and personal background for so much of what will  happen later.  The information provided inthis story line is built upon  (quite well, I might add) in the books that follow this one.  This was an  enjoyable read and I know that had I read this one first, instead of  somewhere down the pike, I would have become a Stephen White fan  right  then and there.<br />   One of the things I like about this book (and the rest  of the series, too) is that White deals very effectively with some  controversial topics.  For example, Lauren Crowder has MS and when Alan  meets her, she eventually introduces that into the dynamic of their  relationship.  She also has trouble trusting men because of a failed  marriage.<br />   In later books, White takes on the Church of Jesus Christ of  Latter Day Saints (the Mormons) and that's a brave thing to do for a man  who lives in a part of the country where they are a power unto themselves.   (See Higher Authority).  Stephen White writes the kind of book that I like  to get into and he uses recurring characters we become familiar with and  concerned about.  In all of his works (this one included) he includes and  builds on a level of tension that keeps the reader turning the pages.  I  felt that way with each of his books that I have read so far.<br />   IF I can  make one recommendation to readers who have NOT discovered this author, it  would be this: read PRIVILEGED INFORMATION first.  It was White's first  novel and the one where he introduces many of the characters he will be  using in later installments.  Read this and the other White books in the  order in which he wrote them and I don't think you'll be disappointed.	2000-03-14
US	50143797	R2YC1AY468X0AB	0451408764	10102994	Piranha: Firing Point	Books	5	12	12	N	N	BZ Michael, You've Topped Yourself Again!	Once again, author and former submariner Michael DiMercurio has provided me with hours of reading enjoyment and once again, I have but one regret--that the book ended too quickly.  I had bought this book only a few  days after hearing that THREAT VECTOR was out and I wanted to read this one  first, to keep the continuity of the series intact.    As I said previously  in my review of BARRACUDA FINAL BEARING, Mr. DiMercurio knows his subject  matter and unlike other technically trained people, he ACTUALLY HAS THE  ABILITY to write!   Michael DiMercurio has written a very plausible and  believable story about the break-up of China (through a civil war) into two  distinctly separate entities.  One is the old but familiar Red China.  The  other is Free China, a country more western in philosophy and outlook.   However, the losers in the civil war can't stand the fact that they've lost  and want to regain that part of the country which has successfully seceded.      The author provides a very well developed antagonist for this book, as  well.  Chinese Admiral Chu Hua-Feng is a person to be reckoned with.  He is  in many ways the ideal literary enemy.  DiMercurio imbues him with  qualities that make him detestable but at the same time, understandable.   He provides the focal point for keeping the reader's interest in what the  Red Chinese are doing and unfortunately for our American hero, VADM Michael  Pacino, he is also the perfect military match.  But as anyone can guess,  Michael DiMercurio has something else up his author's sleeve and he deals  those cards just when they are needed most.       I have read all of the  Michael DiMercurio books to date (in the order written and released) and  what I really enjoy most is that the author continues to keep the story  lines fresh and me wanting more.  As I said above, I just wish I didn't get  through them so quickly because then, I would be able to savor the tension  a little bit longer.  Speaking of tension, that's something I have noticed  that Michael DiMercurio is excellent at.  In fact, I'd say he's an expert.   From what I've read of the art of writing, that's a very valuable skill to  be able to employ.  Michael DiMercurio has done that well in ALL of the  Michael Pacino stories to date and yet, each new encounter is as fresh and  interesting as the ones that came before.  In my reader's mind, that is the  sign of an accomplished writer.    Another aspect of these novels that is  also handled well are the technical details of submarine warfare,  powerplants, navigation and &quot;fighting the ship.&quot;  Although Mr.  DiMercurio has two engineering degrees (one from the Naval Academy and one  from MIT), he has the great skill to be able to write for the lay reader  who does not possess his technical education.  That ability, in someone so  technically educated and trained, is a gifr not to be overlooked.<br />      Mr. DiMercurio's description of America's latest submarine, the SSNX is  actually brilliant in its simplicity and yet it is the simplicity that  makes the inner workings that much easier for us &quot;non-techies&quot; to  imagine.  When I read this book, I actually felt and believed that I was in  the control room with Admiral Pacino.  I felt his tension, I knew what he  had in the way of resources and knew that he knew that failure was not only  &quot;not an option,&quot; but that failure could have the gravest  ramifications for the United States as a whole.<br />   I read somewhere that  Michael DiMercurio has more mainstream writing in the pipeline for his  publisher(s) and readers.  I do not know what genre or type of story line  he has in store, nor do I know who his new characters will be.  You know  what?  I don't care.  This author has already captured my attention and  loyalty.  In essence, I'm actually looking forward to the trip because I'd  like to see where this really skilled writer will be taking us.<br />   As a  loyal reader, I also have a couple ofother comments I'd like to leave here  as well.  The first is a rhetorical question.  Why haven't any of these  books been optioned as movies?  Secondly, why were the schematics at the  front of the books deleted?  I never understood why those valuable  descriptive tools were eliminated.<br />    I'd also like to make a comparison  here, as well.  If Michael DiMercurio's &quot;mainstream&quot; fiction is  as good as his undersea warfare novels are, I truly believe that we will be  hearing more from this very talented author.  And Michael, if you need  someone to read your draft(s), let me know.  I volunteer.	2000-03-13
US	50143797	R1GB4CVOPQMH9H	0425171086	336394484	Code of Conflict	Books	3	3	7	N	N	Some Info on CA Mobley	I read somewhere that the author of Code of Conflict, CA Mobley is a woman and that she is an electronic warfare officer in the US Navy. While her book may not be the best of the genre, cut her some slack.  I just started  it and would like to get to the end before I comment in depth.      Remember, this author created a story when before there was nothing.  This  is LCDR Mobley's third book.  How many of the rest of us have even had one  novel published?	2000-02-09
US	50143797	R33B5EN7TCJWZU	0451193261	22334917	The Policy	Books	5	14	15	N	N	Who would've thought insurance could kill?	This was a well written story that for some reason I didn't expect to grab me and yet it did.  To be fair, I had read many of the reviews here at Amazon and it was the general praise that The Policy received that convinced me to buy the book and read it.  Had I not visited this site  first, I probably would've passed.  Now, I'm glad I didn't.    Alex Tynan  is one of the neater female characters I have met in a book in quite some  time.  What I liked about her were the several dimensions the two writers  who hide behind the pseudonym Patrick Lynch gave her.  Like many of us, she  has her flaws and has made her share of mistakes.  She is not a  one-dimensional superhero like we see in many of the bad techno-thrillers.      With more than above average intelligence and a tenacity that creeps up  on the reader as the novel progresses, Alex reminded me of the proverbial  dog with a bone that they just won't give up.  Alex is like that and that's  what kept me glued to this book.     Another interesting skill the authors  brought to this storyline was that they picked a dull industry like life  and health insurance and somehow, made it seem sinister and evil.  Of  course, industries themselves are not evil, but the people in them can be  and sometimes are.    To be sure, this is not a scary book or a true  nail-biting page turner in the strictest sense of that label but there is a  lot of tension and it grows throughout this novel.  The authors did an  outstanding job of creating and increasing that tension as the novel  progressed.    I haven't read any of the other books by the two folks who  call themselves Patrick Lynch but rest assured, I most certainly will.   These two writers have several other books out and I intend to track them  down and gobble them up.    Patrick Lynch, whoever you are, keep up the  good work and keep the stories coming.  You two seem to have a lot to say  and some good story lines to use as your vehicles.  Thanks for an enjoyable  read.	2000-01-11
US	50143797	R2VNREDSE93T77	0451185110	823831767	Higher Authority (Alan Gregory)	Books	4	56	66	N	N	Mormons Beware, You May Not Like What You Read!	Some of the Mormons who wrote reviews here are defending what can't be defended.  Stephen White wrote a novel but he did research before he did and what he found was obviously not to the liking of the LDS Church or some  of its more devout (and misinformed adherents).    What White tried to do  with &quot;Higher Authority&quot; (and I think he was very successful) was  set a murder mystery against the backdrop of the workings of the Church of  Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints.  What Mormon readers of this book need  to do is get honest; they also need to read up on their church's history  and when they do, the real theology should come through.      Alan Gregory  is not the main character here, Lauren Crowder is.  It is what she  investigates and finds that makes for the backdrop of the story.  What many  non-Mormon readers don't realize is what exactly LDS members believe.   White gives us a primer but he doesn't cover it all.  If most people knew  just exactly what Mormons believe, they would never, ever become adherents.     Read this book because it's a good story.  After you do, go to a  Christian bookstore to the section on &quot;cults&quot; and buy any of the  books on MORMONS.  Read with an open mind and when you do, you'll find that  Mormons aren't Christians at all.  They mean well and Stephen White points  that out in his novel. But it's the negative exposure that has the Mormons  trying to explain away the inconsistencies and outright falsehoods that are  part of their false doctrine.  Stephen White lives in a part of the country  where Mormons are numerous and influential.  His riting is all the more  courageous because of that.  There are documented cases of people making  death threats to people who write and say negative things about the LDS  Church. I have spoken to non-Mormon friends from Utah and they HAVE told me  that UTAH is as close to a theocracy as one gets in the good old USA.  Read  &quot;Higher Authority&quot; and get an idea why.	1999-12-20
US	50143797	RZ8RW21O7C3J5	0671891715	631509009	The ACADEMY	Books	5	16	16	N	N	On Brave Old Army Team!	The Academy is Ed Ruggero's finest novel to date.  In this, his first novel without his recurring protagonist Mark Isen, Ruggero does a masterful  job of giving the reader a morality play and a mystery wrapped up in a neat  package.  <br />   Ruggero knows his material.  After all, he is a West Point  graduate and was an English professor there prior to leaving the Army.  His  characters are all believable and have qualities that make them stand out  as truly  memorable.  Tom Gates, a non-grad is a &quot;muddy boots&quot;  soldier.  He is an ROTC graduate, an infantry officer and an airborne   ranger.  He is the quintessential field soldier.  He lacks however, the  finesse needed to succeed in the showcase environment that is the United  States Military Academy.  A dream assignment as a TAC officer, commanding a  cadet company will eventually lead him to that place where few of us want  to go, a place where we discover our own character.  For all of his  problems, Tom Gates does not lack character and is a better officer, leader  and man than one would think at the beginning of the book.<br />   Cadet Wayne  Holder, the cadet company commander of D Company is the young man who  attends West Point as a family legacy.  Yet, at the beginning of the novel,  it is he who takes his responsibilities too cavalierly for his fellow  cadets and the commissioned officers who teach them.  By book's end, he has  grown and matured and has become the person and leader everyone hoped he  would be.  He comes to embody all that is good and right about West Point  and the motto &quot;Duty, Honor, Country&quot; are watchwords that the  reader knows he will live by.  As he meets the obstacles placed in his path  and eventually overcomes them, it becomes apparent to the reader that a  hard-fought battle has been won.  Wayne Holder, somewhat selfish at the  beginning of the story has come to learn the value of doing what is  right.<br />   The lessons learned do not end with Wayne Holder.Several  officers' careers are ruined by books' end.  One of the things that  separate officers from enlisted personnel, at least in the eyes and minds  of senior officers is that commissioned officers are expected to exercise  sound judgement.  Although it is all too often not the case in our  &quot;new politically correct military,&quot; officers are expected to look  out for their troops.  They are also expected to do what is right for the  nation.  Too many of them have forgotten that and have begun to &quot;suck  up&quot; to various pressure groups.  That too, is an underlying theme that  runs throughout this outstanding novel.<br />   This novel also serves another  purpose, one that is perhaps more important than just that of  entertainment.  This book is an excellent leadership primer.  Although it  is set at West Point, I think it should be required reading for every  second lieutenant and ensign in all of the services, regardless of the  source of their commissions.  I hope the English department at West Point  treats this book with the respect that it deserves and puts it on its  required reading list.<br />   Although I am not a member of &quot;the long  gray line,&quot; (I went through ARMY ROTC in college), I have served with  many Pointers.  Some were great officers and some definitely were not.   Some cared for their troops and always tried to do the right thing,  regardless of the consequences and others thought only of themselves.  But  I also saw those characteristics in ROTC and OCS officers, too.  This story  is a value lesson for every one who accepts responsibility for the defense  of the nation.  This book is one that Bill Clinton should read, if for no  other reason than to understand what it is that honorable men have and he  lacks-- character and integrity.<br />  A strong character is someting one has  or doesn't have.  Ed Ruggero has provided the reader with a laundry list of  people who face daily challenges.  How they deal with thosechallenges is  the basis for the success of this book.  Unlike his previous books where  Mark Isen is reprised in different situations, The Academy treats us to a  story where the training ground is the crucible and the end product is the  result of how much moral fiber is contained within the person.<br />   I liked  Wayne Holder.  Despite his failings, I genuinely liked Major Tom Gates.   Like every other reader, I came to admire and respect Cadet Chris Dearborn.   He showed that he deserved the respect of his peers and that he is worthy  of the &quot;special trust and confidence&quot; that comes with the  presidential commission.  All of the players in this book are well drawn.   The good ones represent the best of what the taxpayers get when they invest  in a West Point cadet.  The bad ones are what we all hope West Point and  the other academies do not produce.<br />   This is as fine a military novel  as has come down the pike in a long time.  Unlike another reader who wrote  that this novel does not compare to the best of James Webb, I say it does.   Jim Webb writes about men in conflict who maintain their honor.  Ed Ruggero  did the same thing with The Academy.  I think that Wayne Holder is his best  character yet and I would like to see the author follow him into the army  as a junior officer.  I'd like  to see how Lieutenant Holder applies the  lessons he learned in &quot;The Academy.&quot;<br />  Thank you Mr. Ruggero  for this great story.  Thank you for helping to share with your readers the  true meaning and value of &quot;Duty, Honor, Country.&quot;	1999-11-04
US	50143797	R236Z74R69QBPR	0425158632	506174805	Executive Orders (A Jack Ryan Novel)	Books	1	8	14	N	N	Tom Clancy Should Retire!  He's Run out of Steam &amp; Stories!!	Like reviewers before me on other books, I would've rated this book at less than one star but Amazon doesn't allow that sooooo, here it is.    I  was tooling along through this book's immediate predecessor (Debt of Honor)  and really enjoying the book, wondering how it would end.  Then, in the  last 75 pages I saw where Clancy was leading all of us, his loyal readers.   I groaned to myself and said, oh nooooo, not thattttt!  And guess what?  He  did it.  He took Jack Ryan from National Security Advisor to Vice President  to President in less than 5 pages.  Isn't popular fiction wonderful?  You  can put sh*t between two covers, put Tom Clancy's name on it and the  general reading public will think it's wonderful. Well, I'm here to tell  you it wasn't and isn't and Tom Clancy should be ashamed off himself for  putting such truly bad prose on paper.  Debt of Honor ended badly and  that's when I knew Clancy was well past his prime.  I should've guessed  that Executive Orders would not be any better.<br />  Executive Orders picks  up where DoH left off with our stalwart White Knight, Jack Ryan taking up  residence at 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue.  I couldn't believe the story line  but I plugged along. Ryan started out admirably and in some ways stayed  that way in EO but, the entire premise of his ascension to power was just  so preposterous as to make the novel laughable.<br />   For someone who writes  detail so well, Clancy lost sight of the fact that there would have been so  many factors that would have had to fall into place (exactly) to permit  this type of event to take place.  A 747 jumbojet into the capital would  just not happen, especially on the night the President is addressing a  joint session of Congress.  Air traffic is vectored away from downtown DC  to make just such an event implausible.<br />  I really had a difficult time  swallowing what TC was peddling in this overly long tome.  Readers may have  noticed that Tom has also developed a devoted following with his  non-fiction books such as &quot;Marine,&quot; &quot;Submarine,&quot;  &quot;Armored Cav,&quot; &quot;Airborne,&quot; &quot;Into the Storm&quot;  and &quot;Every Man a Tiger.&quot;  He does a great job with those books  because he can get into all the techno-detail that he puts in his novels  and he doesn't have to make it all seem believeable.  The stuff he writes  about in those books is here today and he doesn't have to make it  plausible.  He can write those books like the thoughtful student of the  military that he has proven he once was.  He should stay with the  non-fiction, special interest books he does so well.<br />   With Debt of  Honor, Executive Orders and Rainbow Six, Tom Clancy has proven to be a  caricature of the author he once was.  He's really stinking rich now and  apparently given up on giving his readers a good read.  Now he just wants  to peddle Sh*t and get paid for it.<br />   Tell you what, Tom.  Why don't you  take your wealth, dabble in whatever it is rich folks like you dabble in  and forget writing fiction.  You had a few good books in you and you wrote  them.  Now you have nothing left.  It's time for a new hobby.	1999-10-18
US	50143797	R2XVMUMU8M3ZH1	0671709607	182021796	Flight Of The Intruder	Books	5	39	42	N	N	Jake Grafton, a hero then and a hero still...	This is the story of navy attack pilots during the  war in Vietnam.  It is also the story of one particular pilot, LT Jake &quot;Cool Hand&quot;  Grafton, an A6B Intruder pilot flying off the coast of North Vietnam as  part of the Tonkin Gulf &quot;Yacht Club.&quot;<br />This is a first novel by  a writer who lived the experiences of his fictional character.  When I  first read this book about the time the hardcover was first published, I  felt as if I was in the ready room with Grafton, Boxman, Razor and the  others being briefed before &quot;going downtown&quot; to bomb Hanoi.<br />The  feel for time and place is all here.  The descriptions of the life aboard a  carrier on station, the shore leave in Subic Bay and Olongapo City all ring  true according to my navy veteran friends.  As I read, I felt as if I could  have been one of the characters Stephen Coonts wrote about.<br />For a debut  novel, this one was extrememly well done.  It was the entrant to a series  that I hoped Coonts would write, and subsequently did.  I like Jake Grafton  because he is a man all of us could only hope to be.  Most of all, he is a  man of honor and integrity and this is demonstrated when he decides to put  his career (and freedom) on the line by going after a target  &quot;downtown&quot; after President Johnson has called a bombing halt over  Hanoi and Haiphong.<br />   Another wonderfully drawn character is LCDR Virgil  Cole, Jake's B/N (bombardier/navigator).  Cole has seen combat before and  has the Silver Star.  He trusts no one but himself but, does his job  magnificently.  In the movie version, the casting for this character was  brilliantly handled when Willem Dafoe played the part to perfection.   Although the book and the movie differ at the end, the characterization was  true to Mr. Coonts' intent, in my opinion.  Jake and Cole became a team and  stuck together in thick and thin.  Their friendship and loyalty to each  other was proven when they went after their downed squadron commander, CDR  Camparelli, were shot down themselves and had to survive.  The two, who are  bound by a well-defined sense of honor, keep their commitments to each  other and their squadron.<br />   Although Coonts the writer was also Coonts  the lawyer at the time he wrote the novel, he introduces a question of  military ethics and obedience when the navy investigates Grafton's and  Cole's unauthorized mission against the North Vietnamese capital.  Senator  Fred Dalton Thompson of Tennessee, in one of his supporting screen roles,  does an effective job as the navy Staff Judge Advocate arguing that control  of the military must remain in the hands of civilians and elected officials  if the United States is to avoid the dangers of military control of the  government. Again, this actor turned politician mirrors exactly Mr. Coonts'  character in the novel when he  and other senior officers attempt to  determine the fate of the two aviators who flew side by side in that  wonderful Grumman attack aircraft.<br />   Stephen Coonts' wrote a novel that  begged for a sequel or a series.  I am sure that most readers clamored for  more of Jake Grafton after reading this book.  I know I did.  This book  proves that Mr. Coonts is a man of many talents.  After all, he flew the  Intruder, came home to become a successful lawyer and then launched a very  successful career doing something he really likes namely, writing popular  novels.  Even though I first read this book almost 11 years ago, I finally  got the chance to thank the author for all the hours of reading enjoyment  he's given me.  I'd also like to thank him for his service in Vietnam and  in the reserves from which he retired not so many years ago.<br />  BZ CDR  Stephen Coonts USNR (ret) and thank you!	1999-10-13
US	50143797	R3VMQN5GP7N5R1	0060191813	821841049	Orchid Beach	Books	2	25	28	N	N	A Predictable Fast Read BUT, Ultimately Disappointing	I have read almost all of the popular works of Stuart Woods, especially the Stone Barrington novels.  Holly Barker started out as an interesting  character and then, dried up and blew away.  The conditions under which she  becomes the acting Chief of Police leave a lot to be desired and struck me  as all too coincidental.  The circumstances were so convenient for Woods  that I siad to myself, &quot;I've heard of artistic license, but this is  beyond the pale.....&quot;          Holly's relationship with the lawyer  was also just to difficult to accept.  It seems like she jumps into bed as  soon as possible to add to the story line and yet, this was inconsistent  with her earlier position as an Army MP major who filed charges against her  commanding officer for sexual harassment.<br />   There was another major  factual error in the book and it had to do with both Holly and her father,  the alleged Special Forces Master Sergeant.  In the beginning of the book,  as Holly is making her decision to retire from the Army, Woods mentions  that her father is still ona active duty as a Green Beret Master Sergeant.   Using current military personnel policies, that would have been IMPOSSIBLE.  out it.  Her father is still in the Army as she is getting ready to retire  after having served HER 20 years.  How long has he been in if she is  already ready to retire? As an E-8 (MSGT), he would have only been allowed  to stay 26 years and would have long been retired before Holly.   Additionally, if Holly is 37, how old is her dad?  If he was 18 when he had  her, that would make him at least 55 and that's the mandatory retirement  age for enlisted personnel on active duty.  Too many of the decsriptions  revolving around the military just don't work and that took away from my  Woods didn't do his research and his editors are very lazy or sloppy (or  both).<br />   I'm glad I took this book out of the library and didn't have to  pay for it.  Had I paid for it, I would have been mad attwo people, Woods  and myself.  If you still want to read this, get it from the library; don't  spend good money for it.	1999-09-27
US	50143797	R2SYYTY80AXCDB	1574880241	372351955	Dien Bien Phu: The Epic Battle America Forgot	Books	4	40	40	N	N	Dien Bien Phu Through The Eyes Of An American Who was There	This is the personal memoir of an American diplomat who was posted to French Indo-China before, during and after the catastrophic defeat of the  French Expeditionary Corps at Dien Bien Phu.  It is not the scholarly  review of the daily travails of the battle that can be found in the late  Bernard B. Fall's HELL IN A VERY SMALL PLACE,  but, it is a valuable  addition to the literature of that pivotal battle.     Simpson knew all of  the key players on the French side.  He knew &quot;Bruno&quot; Bigeard,  commander of the famous 6eme &quot;Batallion de Parachutistes Coloniaux;  the aristocratic cavalry officer de Castries, who commanded the French  garrison at DBP.  He knew the rest of the &quot;paratroop mafia&quot;  including Langlais, Botella, Brechignac and Giraud who eventually took  command of the French pockets of resistance and held the Viet Minh at bay  for 57 days.    Simpson tells of the mistakes that the French made and  compares them to some of the later ones made by America in our war there.   But, it is also obvious that he was a man of his times and his leanings  were toward the French.    Simpson admired the elan and bravery of the  soldiers of the French Expeditionary Corps.  The Frenchmen and Legionnaires  who fought a thankless war at the end of the supply line were professionals  and he respected them for their dedication and their desire to prevent the  Associated States of Indo-China from falling into the Communist orbit.     This book is a personal history, filled with personal anecdotes and of  course because it is history, we already know the ending.  The French lost  at Dien Bien Phu and were eventually forced to leave the &quot;crown  jewel&quot; of their overseas empire.  Eventuallly, the problem would  become America's as the decision-making shifted from Paris to Washington.     I recommend this book to readers of Fall's fine history of the battle AND  to people who haven't read it because they don't want to get into the  technical details of the battle.  Students of the French conflict in  Indo-China should also read this book so that they can fill in any gaps  concerning the personalities of the senior French leadership.  All in all,  this book needs to be in the library of any serious student of the lengthy  war that bled the finest of both the French and American armies.	1999-09-22
US	50143797	R394O6XV9133P0	0848803108	410060341	Summer of '42	Books	5	36	37	N	N	Hermie, Oscy and Benjy Live On in Summer of '42	This is a great book that was a bestseller when it was first published in the early seventies.  It was made into a beautifully evocative movie  starring a cast of then newcomers including Jennifer O'Neill, Gary Grimes,  Jerry Houser and Oliver Conant.  It is a story of coming of age in  America's first summer of WW II.<br />   The &quot;Terrible Trio&quot; are  three fifteen year olds from a Brooklyn neighborhood who spend the  &quot;summer of '42&quot; on an island off the coast of Maine.  It is about  their yearnings, their misadventures, their fumblings with the fairer sex  and their own newly discovered physical desires.  The three are Hermie,  Oscy and Benjie.  When you read the book, it is obvious that Hermie is the  author, Herman Raucher.<br />   While the setting makes the story dated by  today's standards, the story line itself  is timeless and universal for the  simple reason that this is a tale about coming of age.  It is the story of  Hermie's experiencing that rite of passage that all of us go through at one  time or another.<br />   But Hermie doesn't experience this summer in a  vacuum; along for the ride are Oscy (his best friend) and his next to best  friend, Benjie.    With the three friends at book's center, Raucher tells  hilarious tales of what the boys do to while away the empty hours of summer  days in coastal New England.<br />   There is the scene where Benjie reveals  that he has discovered a &quot;sex manual&quot; and then warns his two  buddies not to paw the book because &quot;his mother might check for  fingerprints.&quot;  There is another well written scene where the three  desperadoes attempt to pick up dates at the entrance to the local movie  theater.  Once inside, Hermie tries to &quot;get some&quot; and  well......Let's just say the scene is funny in a poignant way.<br />   The  main object of Hermie's yearnings is a young war bride named Dorothy, whom  Hermie sees on the beach one day.  She is the most beautiful woman he has  ever seen.  When I saw the movie in 1971 as a 17 year old college freshman  and saw Jennifer O'Neill cast as Hermie's great love, I knew how Herman  Raucher must have felt when he lived through his summer of '42.  Raucher's  description of Dorothy's beauty and innocence (set during a time when her  young husband is a young Army Air Corps officer flying over Germany)is  beautiful to read.  After she meets Hermie and he continues to show up at  odd (but somehow convenient) times, Raucher does a wonderful job of   describing the budding relationship.  There is a wonderful scene where  Hermie runs into Dorothy at the market and offers to carry her grocery  bags.  What he doesn't realize is just how far he will have to carry them.   He is a man on a mission but in a teenage boy's body.  She is a young bride  of 22 and he is smitten with someone too old for him and too married.  But  Hermie perseveres.  Or does he?<br />    Hermie's rite of passage comes when  he least expects it and it is truly a case of being in the right place at  the right time (or wrong place depending on your point of view).  What  happens is  that Hermie finds himself and eventually is forced to realize  that he is not the same person who woke up 24 hours before.  Dorothy is his  first love and the one he will never forget.  The reader/viewer never will  either.<br />   As Hermie/Herman returns to the present (which was then 1970),  he tells the reader, &quot;life is made up of small comings and goings and  for everything we take with us, there is something we must leave behind.   Not an altogether brilliant or original concept, but a comforting one.  In  the summer of '42, we raided the Coast Guard station five times,  had nine  days of rain and in a very special way, I lost Hermie forever.&quot;<br />    This book is one of those beautiful but rare novels that an entire  generation discovers and stays with them a lifetime.  It is also a timeless  story of what it means to grow up, even if you haveto do it a little  before you planned.	1999-08-23
US	50143797	RS3UXYC6G4XN8	1889927015	763786575	Once an Eagle	Books	5	4	4	N	N	More Mustangs Like Sad Sam, Fewer Courtney Massengales	Quite Simply, one of the finest books about professional soldiers ever published.  This is the story of the US Army from WW I to the beginnings of  Vietnam.  It is also the story of one true American hero, &quot;Sad  Sam&quot; Damon, the former Night  Clerk and Nebraska farm boy who receives  the Medal of Honor in France in WW I and goes on to retire a  general  officer in the early stages of America's involvement in Vietnam.<br />   Sad  Sam is a Mustang who learned early to take care of the people he was  responsible for.  In the process, he also earns a battlefield commission.   In the interwar years, he sweats out numerous moves,terrible pay and slow  promotions.  But, he never loses his way.<br />   His foil is the ambitious,  scheming West Pointer, Courtney Schuyler Massengale.  Courtney Massengale  is the quintessential &quot;staff puke&quot; who doesn't like to lead  troops, doesn't like the field and doesn't like to get dirty.  Like our  vaunted Commander in Chief, he also doesn't like to tell the truth, either.   As a result, he manages to manipulate his way to the top of the officer  corps, where his brand of leadership (or lack thereof) can do the most  damage.<br />   I read Once and Eagle when it was first published (I was 14 at  the time) and it made me realize that I wanted to be an officer just like  &quot;Sad Sam.&quot;   I even tried to live my life by the code established  with his dying words to the son of his dead friend Ben Krisler.  He said to  Lt Col Joey Krisler, &quot;if you ever have to choose between being a  better person and a better soldier, always try to be the better  person.&quot;<br />   It is reassuring to see that the Army and Marine Corps  think so much of this book that they have influenced bringing it back into  print.  It should be the required leadership primer for all second  lieutenants and ensigns.  I hope every potential Courtney Massengale at  West Point, USAFA, USCGA and USNA see themselves in its pages and mend  their ways before it's too late (for them, their service and their  troops).<br />   This is a book about honor, integrity, loyalty and service.   These are noble words for concepts which have been erased from the popular  lexicon of everyday American life.  While the military has once again  re-discovered this book, I believe it should be introduced as required  reading at the high school level, where it might have a real impact.<br />    As a caveat however, I offer the quote from the flyleaf where Myrer found  an eagle, stricken with a       dart, said when he saw the fashion of        the shaft, with our own feathers,       not by others' hands are we now  smitten.&quot;<br />                            Aeschylus<br />  This is a  powerful warning to those who would do right by America and her armed  forces.  There are numerous enemies operating from within.  This book gives  us a wonderful hero but, it also warns us to look over our shoulders as  well.  The resurgence of this book should also serve as a  reminder to the  &quot;perfumed princes&quot; in the officer corps that their oath is to the  Constitution, that their duty is to the country and that honor demands that  they put the nation above personal consideration.<br />   The men and women of  the armed forces, who are sworn to obey the orders of the officers  appointed  over them, deserve no less.  The nation deserves no less and  Anton Myrer's novel from 1968 reminds us of that even today.	1999-08-19
US	50143797	R24ZVZIUQFZNZW	0446604534	75967530	Day of Confession	Books	2	13	17	N	N	Nowhere near as good as &quot;Day After Tomorrow&quot;	I'm really glad I didn't buy this book (even in paperback).  I've done a lot of reading over the last four months and have rediscovered the joys  (and money saving value) of the public library system.  My disappointment  with this book is based on a level of expectations created by Mr. Folsom's   captivating debut novel.<br />   From the start, I had difficulty getting into  this book and staying with it.  For some reason, I just didn't care about  Harry and Danny Addison and that's a shame because the premise behind the  plot  was actually a good one.  It should have made for an exciting read  and yet somehow, it just fell flat.<br />   The most interesting character  (and the one Mr. Folsom seems to have spent the most time developing) is  the terrorist, Thomas Kind.  The author's descriptions of his background  and the perverse sexual pleasure he receives from his barbaric murders of  numerous members of the cast is chilling when you read it.  Despite his  anti- social behavior, Thomas Kind is the most interesting character in  this novel that runs approximately 200 pages too long.<br />   Allan Folsom  has written two bestsellers back to back.  Just because the book is a  bestseller doesn't mean it's a captivating read.  Day of Confession isn't.   That means Mr. Folsom is batting .500 (which isn't bad).  But, based on  this experience, when his next book comes out--I'm going to the library.	1999-08-13
US	50143797	R31EC6YLADW8BX	0312179758	413159447	Tomahawk (Dan Lenson Novels)	Books	2	17	21	N	N	USN LT Dan Lenson is UNBELIEVEABLE	I have read the other David Poyer novels featuring USN officer Dan Lenson.  They are THE MED, THE GULF, THE CIRCLE and THE PASSAGE.  I liked all of  them because Poyer, a Naval Academy graduate writes well about men and the  sea.<br />   I had trouble with TOMAHAWK mainly because Poyer turns Lenson  into (in my opinion) a very unbelieveable character.  While I will grant  the possibility of a career naval officer falling for a peace activist, I  think the way Poyer writes about it is unrealistic and I think readers who  buy the premise are simply naive romantics.<br />   For those who have never  served in the officer corps of any of the armed forces, let me say this.  Dan Lenson's misgivings about the TOMAHAWK as a then new weapons system  would have caused him a lot of trouble.  Since the system gave him a moral  dilemma, it follows that those doubts would reflect in his performance.   The doubts did and his OER (Officer Efficiency Report) suffered.<br />   To be  sure, there is an incredible amount of waste in military procurement but, I  really think that if LT Lenson had or developed moral qualms about the  weapons systems the US Navy was seeking to develop and procure, he owed it  to himself, his service and his nation to resign his commission and find  another way to make a living.  Most officers who leave the service do so  for a variety of reasons.  Some of them hate the OPSTEMPO, the deployments,  separation from family, living conditions/low pay, etc.  All of these are  reasons retention of personnel in the military today is heading SOUTH!!!<br />    I  served on active duty and am now a member of the reserves and I found  Dan Lenson unbelieveable in this book.  If I served with a fellow officer  like Dan Lenson, I would probably sit down with him and recommend that he  find another career path because he was deliberately shooting himself in  the foot.  Well educated Annapolis grads like Dan Lenson don't do that.  If  they have a problem with the system,they make their recommendations for  improvements; if they go unheeded, they either shut up and press on or they  request a transfer.  If the navy itself is what's getting to them, they  generally put in their resignation papers and head off to greener  pastures.<br />   I just couldn't find any sympathy for Dan Lenson.  If Poyer  writes another Dan Lenson novel and I read that he has become an Admiral, I  think I'll be sick.  Dan Lenson is not Flag Officer material, not even with  all the fictitious license in the world.        The way it was written  tells me that TOMAHAWK should probably be the last installment in the  continuing saga of Dan Lenson, USN.	1999-08-13
US	50143797	RPK3BZK388CCZ	0440223989	366346333	Sunset Limited (Dave Robicheaux)	Books	3	10	11	N	N	Is it really you, Dave?	This book was different than the other installments in the Dave Robicheaux series.  I  actually had some trouble getting into SUNSET LIMITED and that was immediately after finishing JLB's CIMARRON ROSE.   When I first opened  the book, I was glad to be  back in New Iberia.  It was reassuring to know  that Dave was back and so were Clete, Helen, the Sheriff, Batist, and  Alafair and Bootsie (although in much diminished supporting roles).   JLB  has a beautiful way of describing his characters, especially the ones who  drag Dave into their sordid little lives.  SUNSET LIMITED is no different  in that regard and in this book, I really started to be worried (and  frightened) for Clete.  Clete's violence is relentless and frightening in  its scope.  JLB just doesn't let us off easily when Clete goes on the  warpath.  What I did like and what James Lee is also a master of is his  description of the bond that binds Dave to Clete and vice versa.  The  loyalty, the affection and the caring are all well written.  I've had a  couple of friends like Clete (and a couple like Dave, too) and in these  books, they're well constructed.     My problem with &quot;S-L&quot; was  that for some reason it didn't grab me from the get-go.  Could it have been  because I had just finished Cimarron Rose and there just wasn't enough  difference between Dave and Billy Bob Holland?  Could it be that I'm JLB'd  out?  Or, did I just not like Megan Flynn and her brother (who ended up  with more character and integrity than I first thought)?  That was a  surprise.<br />   The JLB mastery of place and description is still there and  I think it might even be better developed than in some of the earlier  installments.  It's just that this book didn't get hold of me as early on  as his others did.  Toward the end, when things began to fall apart for  Clete, it picked up again and I finished the book quickly.  <br />   There was  a somewhat disturbing side note to all of this for me.  While it wasn't oneof JLB's best efforts, I didn't hate it, either.  However, I am now caught  up on all of his work (except for the just released BILLY BOB HOLLAND  sequel and I think I'm going to put Mr. Burke on back-burner for a time  while I read other authors.<br />   There's an old saying in the military that  goes, &quot;familiarity breeds contempt...&quot;  Well, maybe I've just  grown a little too familiar with  Dave Robicheaux and James Lee Burke.  I  look forward to more of his books, it's just that I'll put off reading them  for a while.	1999-08-11
US	50143797	RRN6YMFR91B2X	0446360856	38570142	The Gold Coast	Books	5	4	7	N	N	Meeting the Mob Up Close and Personal	To the readers of this book who thought it slow and who condemned the rest of us who like(d) it, I say this.  This book has been compared to F. Scott  Fitzgerald's &quot;THE GREAT GATSBY.&quot;  Believe it or not, it has been  and, it is being taught in many American Lit courses at a number of  colleges around the country.  So, which readers are correct, those of you  who pan this book or those who have selected it for inclusion in college  level English courses?<br />   Here's how I see it.  John Sutter is a great  character.  In my view, he's one of Nelson DeMille's more interesting and  complex characters. I like him just as much as Ben Tyson in &quot;WORD OF  HONOR&quot; and John Corey in &quot;PLUM ISLAND.&quot;  He's a man troubled  by the direction his life takes when a notorious Mafia chieftain moves in  next door. What person wouldn't be unsettled when their seemingly placid  existence is turned topsy-turvy after such a dramatic change in the local  color of the neighborhood?<br />   Sutter is like several of DeMille's  characters who finds himself facing problems not of his own creation.  In  many cases, the situation he confronts is totally out of his control.   After all, very few of us have any say in who moves in next door.  John and  Susan Sutter are no different from the rest of us in that regard.<br />   What  DeMille does in this novel is capture all of the issues that Sutter faces.   Frank Bellarosa is only one of them.  He also has to deal with the fact  that he cannot afford to maintain the massive pile of stone sitting on his  property that used to be the ancestral home of his wife's family.  This is  THE GREAT GATSBY updated.  There's a difference, though.  In this book, the  playing field has been leveled and both Nick Carraway and Jay Gatsby now  have to make ends meet based on their everyday incomes.<br />   As anyone who  read Fitzgerald's classic knows, Gatsby was a wealthy bootlegger who  probably could have bought and sold the Tom Buchanans of the world.  Nick  Carraway was his conscience and confidant.  In Gold Coast, John Sutter has  only himself to turn to.<br />   Like his other books set in and around the NY  metro area, DeMille knows from whence he writes. Any good writer will tell  someone who aspires to the craft to write what they know about.  Well, Mr  DeMille knows about Long Island, NY and the people who live there.  He  wrote about the area and people in more than one of his books so he doesn't  break that basic rule.  <br />   I like John Sutter because he never really  loses his way for long.  He may wander around confused for a while, but his  moral compass is intact.  He is a man of honor and integrity.  He deals  with people lacking those qualities with a wry wit and a sardonic view of  the approaches they take to similar problems.  He is also just different  enough from DeMille's other main characters to be memorable.        John  Sutter is above all else, a realist.  he knows what's possible for him and  he knows when to walk away.  He has a sense of humor that never really  leaves him.  <br />   For those who disparaged this book perhaps you should  give it another chance.  Try re-reading it again. Look for the little  nuances that make John Sutter such a decent person.  After you do that,  you'lll realize that Nelson DeMille is really very good at creating people  we readers like respect and care for.  Despite the fact that John Sutter  comes from an &quot;old line family,&quot; he really is an every day sort  of guy.  It's just his misfortune that he had a &quot;wiseguy&quot; move in  next door.	1999-08-10
US	50143797	R26Q604YW5GTBL	0451407423	778395280	Barracuda, Final Bearing	Books	5	4	6	N	N	DiMercurio's the best at Submarine Warfare novels!!!!!!!	With Barracuda Final Bearing, former submariner Michael DiMercurio once again proves he is the best author in this class.  A Naval Academy graduate with a strong engineering background, who served in the US Navy's submarine  service, he possesses a command of the subject matter without equal.  His  dust jackets say that he works as a mechanical engineer now that he's left  the Navy so it would seem that he has lost none of his engineering prowess.   Unlike many technically trained people however, who can't write a compound  sentence, DiMercurio delivers.<br />   He writes about Navy people with  compassion and a great deal of understanding.  After all, he's been there,  done that and gotten the t-shirt.  He knows from whence he speaks.  I have  read all of his books in the order published and they continue to grab me  and keep my attention.  Mr. DiMercurio has a phenomenal ability to take the  reader into the future with new technologies but, his works do not read  like unbelievable science fiction.  What he writes is something we all know  could be with us in the not too distant future.<br />   This is not the most  scholarly of reviews.  But then again, DiMercurio isn't writing &quot;The  Brothers Karamazov,&quot; either.  What he does deliver, each and every  time, are well written and thoroughly plausible stories of Navy submariners  who quietly go about their business, which is defending America and her  interests.  I am a veteran and a serving member of the reserves and these  books always make me stop and pause to think about my  active duty  brethren, who perform arduous tasks under less than optimal conditions.   These men and women, serving at home and far away deserve our undying  respect, affection and appreciation.  <br />   I think the writings of Michael  DiMercurio are his way of telling his former colleagues, who are still on  active duty, that he has not forgotten them, that they are with him every  day.  These books are in their own way, his tribute to their valor and  sacrifice(s) so that the rest of us can go about our daily lives.<br />    Barracuda Final bearing is one book in an outstanding series.  They have  given me many hours of reading pleasure.<br />   BZ Michael.  Thank you for  every word and for your service to this great country we call home.	1999-08-07
US	50143797	R1SGKXXESTBU6T	0451191145	604964480	Atlas Shrugged	Books	5	7	12	N	N	Some Info for Readers of Ayn Rand's Works	First, let me say that this is not a review of Atlas Shrugged but a short informational primer on who she was and why she wrote the way she did.<br />    It seems that many readers who have written critiques here know little or  nothing about her and her life.  If they did, some of the criticisms might  have not been rendered and those that were would be either a) redundant or  b) indicative of a lack of background.<br />    For those of you who don't  know her, Ayn Rand came into the world while Czar Nicholas still ruled over  Russia.  She was born into an affluent Russian Jewish family that lost  everything when the Bolsheviks took power in the October 1917 revolution.   She received her university education in history in the early stages of the  regime, when the Communists were attempting to re-educate everyone and  create the next generation of collectivist thinkers.  They failed with  Rand.<br />    Ayn Rand emigrated to the US in 1926 via Chicago.  She knew  very little English.  As she has said on several occasions, she had to  learn the language first and then learn to think in English so that she  could express her ideas.  Think of her as a female version of Joseph Conrad  in that sense because he developed his language skills by writing in a  language that was foreign to him.<br />    Having witnessed first-hand the  mind-numbing, demoralizing and dehumanizing nature of Soviet  totalitarianism, Rand first offered the reading world &quot;WE THE  LIVING.&quot;  While it tells the story of Kira Argounova as she deals with  the state (or the collective).  She does that again with Howard Roark in  THE FOUNTAINHEAD and with all of her heroes in ATLAS SHRUGGED.<br />    I  agree with some of the writers here who think that she was a study in  contradictions.  She did allow her students to become disciples and in many  cases, they ceased thinking and acting for themselves.  She also had very  little tolerance when it came to people who disagreed with her.  You either  buy into her view of life and the world or you'd better find someone else  to hang with.<br />    Rand, was like all of us, a flawed human being.  But,  to say that her writing was simplistic or flawed or not philosophical is a  simplification in the extreme.  I think her critics need to remember from  whence she came, what motivated her and what she was trying to  accomplish.<br />   It's true, she wasn't a businessman and she may not have  taken a college level course in economics but she actually did have the  ability to convey, in writing, the dangers free men everywhere faced at the  hands of the collective (be it socialist, communist or fascist).  When she  described her characters (especially the ones she found heroic), she imbued  them with qualities that the rest of us could only aspire to.<br />    One of  the characters she seemed to admire in a left-handed way was also one of  the most tragic. At the end of THE FOUNTAINHEAD, after Howard Roark is  found not guilty for the destruction of Cortlandt Homes, he is contacted by  Gail Wynand. Wynand, who had once been a friend, admirer and supporter of  Howard Roark's unbridled individualism had turned on him when his board of  directors demanded a change of editorial policy for Wynand's flagship  paper, &quot;The Banner.&quot;  Wynand relents and denounces Roark.   Despite the vilification of the press, Roark prevails when the jury  exonerates him.  Later, Wynand brings Roark to his office to commission him  to design the Wynand building.<br />    As Wynand tells his former friend,  &quot;I wish to undertake the construction of the Wynand building at once.  I wish it to be the tallest structure of the city.  Do not discuss with me  the question of whether this is timely or economically advisable. I wish it  built.  It will be used--which is all that concerns you.  It will house THE  CLARION and all of the offices of Wynand Enterprises now located in various  parts of the city.  The rest of the space willbe rented. I have sufficient  standing left to guarantee that.  You have no fear of erecting a useless  structure.  I shall send you a written statement on all details and  requirements.  The rest will be up to you.  You will design the building as  you wish.  Your decisions will be final.  They will not require my  approval.  You will have full charge and complete authority.  This is  stated in the contract.  But I wish it understood thatI shall not have to  see you.  There will be an agent to represent me in all financial and  technical matters.  You will deal with him.  If you find it necessary to  communicate with me, you will do so through my agent.  You are not to  expect or attempt to see me.  Should you do so, you will be refused  admittance.  I do not wish to speak to you.  I do not wish to ever see you  again.  If you are prepared to comply with these conditions, please read  the contract and sign it.&quot;<br />    As readers know, Roark reached over  and without reading the contract, signed it.  Wynand commented on this but  Roark said nothing.  He also assured Roark that there was enough left of  the financial empire to see the Wyand Building to completion but, he also  told Roark that the Wynand empire would die with him.  <br />   As Wynand goes  on, he bitterly condemns mankind for its race toward collectivism but,  Roark remains optimistic.  He tells his former friend, &quot;Mankind will  never destroy itself, Mr. Wynand.  Not so long as it does things such as  this.&quot;    &quot;As what?&quot; Wyand asked.    &quot;As the Wynand  Building.&quot;    Wynand tells Roark that dead things, such as THE BANNER  are only the financial fertilizer that make such things (as the Wynand  Building) possible.       As the novel races toward its hopeful ending,  Wynand finishes with Roark.  He says, &quot;I once told you that this  building was to be a monument to my life.  There is nothing to commemorate  now.  The Wyand Building will have nothing--except whatyou give it.&quot;         Roark pays his last respects with a final bow. At the office door,  Roark turns to look at his friend for what will be the last time.  Wynand  speaks a final time and says, &quot;Build it as a monument to that spirit  which is yours....and could have been mine.&quot;<br />    I really believe  that Rand genuinely liked Wynand but she had to introduce the fatal flaw.   In this case, he could not measure up to the standards that Roark lived by.   Wynand knew that for all of his success, he was nothing when measured by  the standards applied to him by Rand.<br />    It has been 56 years since THE  FOUNTAINHEAD was first published and 41 since ATLAS SHRUGGED.  In her  heyday, it was all too easy to dismiss Rand's works as amateurish and  insignificant. It  should be remembered that most Americans, when asked  what two books have impacted them most reply, 1) The Holy Bible and 2)  ATLAS SHRUGGED. Too many people miss the point of her work.  If it  gets  the reader to think, to consider the world around them, then she has  achieved her goal.  Whether you like her philosophy and writing style or  not,she continues to have a following long after the novels were first  published.  What other author of the last half of the 20th century can make  that claim?  What other philosophy continues to draw new generations of  students?<br />    She was a complex and contradictory person.  But if one  reads her works with an open-mind, I think it will become readily apparent  that Ayn Rand was in fact, a brilliant author.  I have read her works over  and over again since I first discovered her 30 years ago.  Her philisophy  is just as relevant today as the day she completed the books that made her  famous.<br />   Don't listen to the critics.  Read these works because you  want to and because you want to be introduced to one of the most original  thinkers of the 20th century.	1999-08-03
US	50143797	R2Z6FWXQ68P9OG	0446606960	725566655	Double Image	Books	2	8	11	N	N	A Quick Read? Yes.  But Not What it Could've Been.	Like a lot of other readers at this site (and elsewhere), I am a longtime fan of David Morrell. I have read most, but not all of his works and I must  agree with some of my fellow readers.  There is a lot that iswrong with  this book.    First, Mr. Morrell seems to have broken a cardinal rule of  plotting -- he combined two distinct, but unrelated plotlines into one  novel and to what purpose?  Second, as others have noted, some of the lines  between Mitch Coltrane and his erstwhile lady-love border on the absurd and  read like the trashy dialogue used on day-time soaps.  It made me wonder if  Mr. Morrell actually wrote entire sections of the book.    In Mr. Morrell's  defense, I will say this to his critics.  It's very easy for those of us in  his reading public to read his works and then &quot;armchair  quarterback&quot; what he should and shouldn't have done with his plot and  characters.    It's another thing entirely to create something (in this  case a novel) from nothing.  Remember, Mr. Morrell make his living  conjuring up stories to entertain the rest of us.  That's a big task. How  many of his readers could do half as good a job?  How many of us could turn  out books that please all readers, all of the time?  I'm not a published  author and I often wonder if any of my fellow critics are, either.    Until  such time as those of you who are his harshest critics become as big and  best-selling  an author as David Morrell, I say give him a break.  After  all, the only perfect person in the history of the world walked the face of  the earth 2,000 years ago.  He's gone now, David Morrell isn't him and will  make a mistake now and then.  So will the rest of us.  Stop whining and  wait for his next work.  Or don't!  The choice is yours.	1999-07-29
US	50143797	R2D6878RT9ML5U	0786889306	974363020	Cimarron Rose (Billy Bob Holland)	Books	4	8	10	N	N	SOMETHING NEW OR IS IT?	Like many of James Lee Burke's legion of devoted fans, I have read all of the Dave Robicheaux novels (in the order in which they were written).   Before I added my review for Cimarron Rose I read many of the ones written  by fellow fans.  It was interesting to see that while  JLB still has a  loyal following, there are those who were (and are) disappointed by some of  his recent efforts.  The other thing that truly amazed me has been the  quality of the writing in the reviews submitted by other readers.  It made  me wonder if many of them worked as literary critics or college English  professors.  Needless to say, there is a surprising lack of consensus on  the quality of Cimarron Rose.          When the book first came out, I was  initially disappointed that Dave, Clete, Batist, Alafair and Bootsie would  not appear between the two covers.  The move to small-town Texas also did  not appeal to me at first but, as I got into the book, I realized here was  something new ---James Lee Burke was venturing further afield than New  Iberia parish or even his other erstwhile home, Montana.<br />    I am a  Northerner who has lived in the South and find Burke's writing evocative  but also very unsettling.  He knows from whence he writes but for me, he  reminds me of everything I saw in Georgia and came to hate.  Cimarron Rose,  while set in Texas, stresses that there are truly vile, ignorant, bigoted  people populating these newly popular Sun Belt States who deserve nothing  more  than our enmity and vilification.  The Billy Bob Hollands and the  Dave Robicheauxs of the world notwithstanding, the novels of JLB, while  beautifully written, paint a sordid picture of the South (and  Southwest)that confirm the rightness of my decision to return to the  Northeast.<br />   All of the books JLB has written have stressed a darker  side of life.  While he has heroes, there is nothing heroic about these  books. They are almost always well crafted and yet, they remind me of  things I'dthought I'd left behind in the  Coastal Empire of SE Georgia.  His writing also makes me wonder if his southern readers like him or hate  him for showing the rest of the world the darker side of the region they  call home.  The  Robicheaux novels are set in Louisiana and if as it  appears, Billy Bob Holland continues as an alternate character in another  series, will he make us cringe while he writes about the bigoted half-wits  in Deaf Smith, Texas? <br />I often wonder, is James Lee Burke trying to tell  us all how much he despises us?  I  ask this question because he makes a  lot of money  from his readership.  His single most popular character, Dave  Robicheaux is the one that got him noticed as a writer and yet, JLB had at  least 6 other novels out years before that barely brought him attention.   Almost all of them have been or will be re-released and all because of the  popularity of the troubled cop from New Iberia.<br />    Is Billy Bob  different from Dave?  Not really. Does that change the fact that I really  enjoyed the book?  Nope.  But,  some of my fellow reader critics seem to  have hit the nail squarely on the head.  JLB may just well be starting to  turn out novels on a formulaic basis.  I say this because I came to that  conclusion about John Grisham.  I also have wondered if Hyperion has hooked  JLB into  a multi-book contract and the only way he can fulfill his end of  the bargain is to churn out Robicheaux &quot;look-alike,  sound-alikes.&quot;  After all, Grisham, while changing his characters from  book to book, is already well past his prime.  He should try to enjoy those  royalties; he doesn't really need to work anymore.<br />    In any case, I say  all of this from a distance but not with malice.  After all, James Lee  Burke is making a very nice living indeed from doing something I wish I  could do and that's write popular fiction that's well received.  For that I  am grateful, because he keeps me entertained and wanting more.  I just hope  that he and Dave (and Billy Bob over there in Deaf Smith, Texas) find their  voices again.  All three of them still have a lot to say.	1999-07-19
US	50143797	R3PJCD8F06SNJ	0446605409	348227423	Plum Island	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Demille Returns to LI with Witty Hero	Another of Demille's hard to put down novels.  I enjoyed it thoroughly, especially after the middling disappointment I felt after reading  Spencerville.  Detective John Corey is a funny, interesting, crude guy who  personifies Demille's talent for creating humor-filled wiseass main  characters.  Being a Long Islander by birth who now lives elsewhere, I  thoroughly enjoy his work.  Perhaps his best look at LI however, is found  in The Gold Coast.  I sometimes think that to truly appreciate Demille's  humorous main characters, one must be from the NY metro area.  As I have  traveled around the country, I have heard many people criticize us as being  rude, obnoxious, brusque, abrupt, abrasive and short tempered.  Well, many  of the descriptions are correct....if you're from NY.  So, why should John  Corey, a detective in NYPD be any different?  And remember, Nelson Demille  is a New Yorker, so of course, he imbues many of his characters with the  traits I'd be willing to bet he shares, too.  As I read this book, I  smiled and chuckled to myself many times.  Having left LI, the book helped  me to remember all of the things I loved about living there.  Unfortunately, the area Demille sets the novel in, the Town of Southold is  no longer remotely similar to the rest of Long Island.  It is what LI used  to be and is no longer.  His description of the area made me wonder if  Nelson Demille wishes some of the damage caused by the over-population and  over-development of the &quot;Island&quot; could have been prevented.  The  disappointment I found was the &quot;Ramboesque&quot; boat chase.  When I  read the book the first time, I thought it unnecessary and superfluous.  When I re-read the book the second time, I found the chase annoying and  amateurish.  But, that's criticism from a fan who can only aspire to the  over-all talent contained in this popular author from the place where I  Demille, could you please write more quickly?  I've run out of your books  to read and I want more.............&quot;	1999-05-15
US	50143797	R2080OT31R1D8L	0446301582	714221261	Word of Honor	Books	5	0	0	N	N	1980s WASP LIer comes to grips with Viet Nam	This was the second Nelson Demille I read (the first being The Charm School).  It is the Viet Nam novel Demille had in him and orginally didn't  want to write.  The protagonist, Benjamin Tyson is a 42 year old successful  business executive charged with leading a platoon of US infantry during the  TET offensive of 1968.  Fifteen years after the experience, Tyson (and the  rest of the US) read that he ordered a mass killing at a French hospital  run by South Vietnamese nuns.  It is a crime he says he didn't commit.  Tyson's ambiguities and the internal battles he fights as he is  court-martialed by a vindictive US Army is the main plot line.  He has  other problems, too.  His wife it seems, was a former student radical (who  stripped nude and was photographed on the Mall in DC)and the press has a  field day with the dichotomy of Radical Wife married to Army 1st Lt charged  with mass murder.  The details of Tyson's recall to active duty, his  relationship with his wife and his attraction to his female army defense  &quot;Just how much blame can a man be expected to accept for a crime he  was unable to prevent?&quot;  Tyson is not everyman.  In Viet Nam, as a 25  yr old 1st Lt, he was trying to stay alive.  Fifteen years later, he is a  man approaching middle age wondering how the sky fell in on him.  In the  process, he must try to preserve a marriage, protect his family and regain  his name and honor.<br />  As the movie &quot;The General's Daughter&quot;  with John Travolta prepares to open, I encourage it's viewers to read  &quot;Word of Honor&quot; first.  It is early Demille, but is Demille at  his most thoughtful and that is why I like him and have read everything  he's written.  Demille tells tales about interesting people (many of whom  are from his home turf, Long Island) and it is plain that he knows his  material and does his research.  It is good to see that his degree from his  alma mater (and mine) Hofstra University has prepared him well.	1999-05-14
