US	50153170	R1D4ZHAPOC7FO3	0871620065	839735910	Egermeier's Bible Story Book	Books	5	59	59	N	N	A wonderful step above most children's Bible story books.	I have read numerous Bible story books with my ds (age 7) over the years.  We probably own ten different ones, easily.  Most have cartoonish pictures and repeat the same stories with the same basic parts of the story (leaving out lots of details).  We read Egermeier's last year, and we are more than half way through it a second time.  He just absolutely loves it.  It was not unusual at all for him to beg me to keep reading!<br /><br />Egermeier's has almost all the Bible stories there are (with a very few exceptions).  Those stories that ds had heard many times before often included details he hadn't heard before.  It made the Bible come alive for him.  Any Bible story book that leaves the children begging for more is a winner in my book!  It was enjoyable to me to read it as well.<br /><br />I would highly recommend it to any one who wants to move on to something meatier than your run of the mill cartoonish Bible story book for children.  I also think it is worth reading through for a second time.  It is definitely a keeper!	2005-08-15
US	50153170	R2P7DG64KXI1V4	0140310762	307211419	Twenty and Ten	Books	5	71	74	N	N	A good children's book is good reading for everyone!	I read this book to my six year old son this year.  Somehow, from the time he first heard about WWII a year ago, he has been fascinated by whatever he can learn about it, and there really isn't much for children his age on that subject matter.  That adds to the value of this book.  <br />  <br />This story tastefully deals with the subject of the Nazi's dealings with the Jews in a way that children can relate to and understand.  It is full of suspense -- Will the Nazi soldiers find the Jewish children?  Or will the other children inadvertantly give away their hiding place?  But it is also innocent.  It is written from the perspective of a child who is involved in hiding her Jewish peers.  <br />  <br />While my son greatly enjoyed this book, I did, too!  I looked forward to reading it to him and became every bit as caught up in the story as he was.  It is a book that I would enjoy even if I hadn't been reading it for a child's benefit.  <br />  <br />I highly recommend this book, and I think it's a shame that a number of early reviews appear to be book report assignments by children who didn't appreciate literature of this quality.  Some of us who have been around longer and read many, many more books see the great value that is there.  <br />  <br />But even my son, who hasn't read as many books as I have, loved this book.  The daily response to, \\"We'll stop there,\\" was, \\"Aw, mom, can't we keep going?\\"	2005-04-18
US	50153170	R3613BZOBYM5V6	1556612664	590037342	Families Where Grace Is in Place	Books	5	22	26	N	N	It gave me a new way to view family relationships	In this book, Vanvonderen describes how many of us feel -- inadequate and unable to do what we are called to do and to be.  But he also explains that that comes from doing or trying to be something other than what you are or were called to do.  When we actually try to do what we are called to do and be what God wants us to be, He gives us the grace and the capability to do exactly that.  We simply are not equipped to be or to do anything else. <br /> <br />Vanvonderen talks about Grace-full relationships and contrasts them to Curse-full relationships.  Grace-full ones are those that are built on grace and spring from a right relationship with the Lord.  Curse-full relationships are those that are run on the basis of wrong values or with a worldly philosophy.  He describes the Grace-full relationship and how it should be done and lived (and on what basis -- that of a close relationship with the Lord).  Then he contrasts it with practices that shouldn't be engaged in and often are.  These are Curse-full relationships. <br /> <br />This transformed my approach to how I related with my husband and children.  God has given me so MUCH, much that I didn't deserve (thus, His grace to me).  I need to reflect that and be gracious to my family members.  I believe it has strengthened all my family relationships, and I credit much of Vanvonderen's ideas with actually saving my marriage. <br /> <br />I was brought up in a Grace-full home.  It is my belief that my husband was brought up in a Curse-full home; and many of the Curse-full practices were repeated in our home (not just by him, but by me, following my natural fleshly inclinations).  It is my desire to create, as much as I possibly can, a Grace-full home for my husband (like he's never had) and for my children (the kind of a home every child SHOULD grow up in).  Vanvonderen, in his book, gives the method and the tools for making that happen.   <br /> <br />It is a very simple perspective, and the approach can seem naive and simplistic.  But it actually works.  This is what a gracious home and relationships are all about.   <br /> <br />Guess I went off on a rabbit trail there, giving my interpretation of Vanvonderen's message.  But I can't recommend this book highly enough.  It is great for troubled marriages and parent-child relationships.  But I'm sure it is even useful for strong families, too, ones that don't seem to need a lot of \\"help.\\"  I would urge you to get a copy and read it.  You'll be glad you did.	2004-08-23
US	50153170	R2AOWIA27O7RKU	1888659009	533758284	Five in a Row (Five in a Row): Volume 1	Books	5	176	181	N	N	Great resource for top children's books	While I am a homeschooling mom, I have to say that it would be foolish to dismiss this book simply because you don't homeschool.  If you love books and want your children to love them, too, this can point you to the kind of book they will love.  Many of the books are a joy to read, both for the parent and the child.<br />Also, one might get the impression that this book is not readily available from the way it is listed here, as a hard to find title.  This isn't true.  Amazon may have to special order it, but they should be able to get it without a problem.<br />I do have to offer one clarification, of sorts, from what some others have said.  It is suggested that the lessons require no further preparation than glancing at this book and then getting started.  That isn't true.  If you want a curriculum where all the information your child needs is right there in front of him, this is NOT it.  Five in a Row suggests *topics* on which to teach based on the book of the week.  You may be learning about the Revolutionary War, or Japan, the sense of taste, or ducks.  But if you want pictures related to that topic or some information about it on the child's level, you need to supplement with other books.  <br />That should be achieved easily enough in the public library, same place many people get the FIAR books themselves.  But it helps to know that in advance, rather than assume this material is something it's not.<br />For those who are interested in teaching their children the Charlotte Mason way, FIAR makes a GREAT curriculum.  It will grow a love of literature.  While my son sometimes resists his math and phonics lessons, he LOVES FIAR.  He often asks me, &quot;What are we learning today from the book?&quot;  I don't have to tell him, &quot;It's time for *Papa Piccolo* (or whatever book we are on that week) twice.  He's there, ready and waiting for the next lesson!	2004-03-22
US	50153170	R2DGPSYA4Z7QE0	088899043X	291559211	Very Last First Time	Books	5	12	13	N	N	Educational and enjoyable	It has been said that a good children's book is a good read for people of any age.  This book is another example of the truth of that statement.  It teaches people who don't live in the northern tundra on the seashore about what their life is like, and it does so in a way that you enjoy the learning.    My five year old son loved it; we read it over again a number of times.  But the reason I knew it was such a good book was that I didn't dread reading it after several times.  In fact, I looked forward to it.	2004-01-21
US	50153170	R306AVMVNBE8HS	0156181924	474598768	The Clown of God	Books	4	16	22	N	N	A good story, not just for Catholic children	I read about this book here on Amazon.com, and wasn't sure I'd like it.  We are not Catholic, and just from the review here alone, I knew that Catholicism was almost presumed.  How would I explain the multitude of differences in our faiths to my five year old son?  A priest versus a pastor.  What on earth is a \\"brother,\\" or a monk?  Offering gifts to a statue of the Christ child, when we don't believe in making any graven image of God?    I checked the book out of the library to see what I thought.  Yes, its Catholic flavor cannot be missed, but the message was an excellent one.  The lesson the brothers taught Giovanni was one that I took to heart, that everything we do should be done for the glory of God.  Though Giovanni wrote it off at the time, he ultimately got the message, and gave the best gift that he could to the Lord Jesus.    The only reason why I didn't give it five stars, was that my son didn't like the ending.  He thought it was sad that Giovanni died, and therefore didn't especially want to hear it again.  I used it, however, as an opportunity to teach him about death.  Giovanni came to love the Lord Jesus, and the Lord Jesus loved him, so he went to be with Jesus when he died.  That isn't a bad thing; rather it is good!  There is no need to be sad that Giovanni died, because he went to a place where things were much better for him.    Part of me wants to give it five stars for the teaching opportunity about death that it provided!  But I guess I'll leave it as I did.  Too bad I couldn't give it a 4.5!	2004-01-18
US	50153170	R1TV7QOEU904OS	0689714297	859765486	Cranberry Thanksgiving	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A sweet story that you want to read many times over	I checked this book out of the library for my son (Kindergarten) and I to read.  I'll bet we read it eight or ten times while we had it.  We loved it so much we got a copy to keep at home.    It is the kind of a story that both the child and the adult reading it enjoy.  I found that *I* looked forward to reading it!  The characters, with the possible exception of Mr. Horace, were all people that you learned to like with the first reading.  They were quite different from each other, but those differences almost made them more appealing.    The book is also given to a number of educational opportunities.  For example, my son and I made the recipe for cranberry bread at the end of the book.  (Actually, though, I don't think I would have stolen the recipe.  To each his own!)  There were several topics related to science that the book touched on that we could pursue -- so many that I'd expect we will read them and do some of those activities that we missed next year!    If you, as a parent, get tired of the run-of-the-mill children's books out there, try this one!  You may find that you have to read it over and over again, but that's okay, because *you* will enjoy it, too!	2004-01-18
US	50153170	RMFHY8I4BYOCG	0785282467	709218832	Self-Confrontation: A Manual for In-Depth Discipleship	Books	5	38	38	N	N	Excellent resource	This is a terrific book -- not just for the pastors or counselors who may use it with people seeking advice.  It is, as the title suggests, a resource with which to confront *yourself.*  Included in the lessons are plans for daily devotions.  By using those plans, or perhaps expanding them over a longer period of time than just the week per lesson the book suggests, you could be prepared for devotions for months.  It would probably be wise to go through it again and again.<br />I'm not a counselor, but I've been greatly blessed as a recipient of truly Biblical counsel, the type endorsed by this book.  When I look through this book, I realize that the valuable lessons I gained there are all right here (in this book, and, more importantly, in the Bible).<br />Just like every other member of the human race, I am a sinner.  Years ago I used this book for devotional purposes.  I'm back, delving into it again, with the desire to grow and to change, to purge my life of some of its shortcomings and failures.  The solutions, the keys to change are all found right here.  This book simply points you to the Scriptures where the answers are found.<br />This book shouldn't be hidden in the dark corners of Amazon.com.  It should be a top seller.  Every Christian should have it and engage in some self confrontation.  Perhaps then we would be a better reflection of Christ to the world around us.	2003-09-22
US	50153170	R1FXZS663U91ZM	0785271368	131153224	I Was Wrong: The Untold Story of the Shocking Journey from PTL Power to Prison and Beyond	Books	5	58	60	N	Y	Not just for PTL viewers and supporters	I am not the target audience for this book.  During the time that Jim Bakker and Jessica Hahn were in the news, I attended a non-denominational church most like the Baptists.  My only familiarity with Jim Bakker and his programming is what little I saw in excerpts over the years, which really wasn't much.  Now I attend an Orthodox Presbyterian church.  Doctrinally, it was always my assessment that Jim Bakker was wrong.  I didn't need to read his confession to hear that.  In fact, if we were to get into many of the doctrinal issues, I would probably still disagree with Bakker on a number of issues.<br />Had I not gotten my cheap copy used here on Amazon, I likely never would have read it.  I am SO glad I did.  On all the IMPORTANT matters, we agree.  This book was tremendous.  It was so encouraging to read about how God provided for Bakker and worked in his life, giving him encouragement when he needed it and direction in how to go on.  The story that especially comes to mind is when he was in prison after his mental breakdown, when he was ready to just give up on everything and die, and a guard risked his career to remind him, \\"Jesus loves you.\\"<br />Bakker's discussion of forgiveness and what is necessary to do it was wonderful.  It helped me finally forgive some people who hurt me many years ago in totally different ways.  If anybody knows how to forgive, it is Jim Bakker.  He's had to forgive a huge number of people.<br />His humility in writing this book and confessing his own failures and weaknesses was refreshing.  Many Christian leaders become full of themselves and what they've accomplished, unfortunately, and it is not at all unusual for many people to refuse to admit, at least to others, that they were wrong.  Bakker never had to write this book.  It probably reopened a number of old wounds that he'd rather leave alone.  But he did, and I would imagine that the majority of his readers are glad that he did.<br />My perception of Jim Bakker has been transformed through the reading of this excellent book.  When I bought it, it was mostly due to the curiosity factor.  What did he think he was wrong about?  It might be interesting.<br />I once thought of Jim and Tammy Faye Bakker as a couple of clowns, buffoons that Satan used to smear mud all over the name of Christ.  Today, I see a broken man, a modern day Job.  In this present day and age, there is no one in the Christian community I can think of who went through as much as he did.  Did he bring it on himself?  To an extent, yes he did.  He chose to procede with an affair with Jessica Hahn.  But Bakker knows that.  Did he deserve to lose everything -- his personal posessions, his reputation, his word (in the failure of PTL, though not something he intentionally did), his marriage?  No.  But God had a plan.  He uses everything for the good of those who love him, and he never forgot Jim Bakker.<br />This book is an encouragement and something most of us can learn from.  As I said, it is such a tremendous book, that it is worth reading, no matter what you once thought of Jim Bakker, before the headlines and the demise of PTL.  My only disappointment is that I bought the abbreviated paperback.  I can't help but wonder if the parts that were excluded were also well worth a read!	2003-05-18
US	50153170	R14WA6AQSY6SRC	0399147764	817772318	Oh, Waiter! One Order of Crow!: Inside the Strangest Presidential Election Finish in American History	Books	3	2	3	N	Y	Mediocre review of the events of the election	I've read *At Any Cost* before.  This time, I thought, it might be interesting to read a review of the election resolution by someone who wasn't displaying his bias on every page.  I respect Jeff Greenfield as a journalist, because he comes the closest of just about any of them out there to staying objective and removing his preferences from his reporting.  And besides, most of the other books on this subject have a clear bias.<br />I must say that that is exactly what I got.  I was amazed how objectively he managed to report on the events, especially when it came to the \\"We want every vote counted,\\" vs. \\"They're devining the intent of the voters.\\"  You could believe that he really did see some merit on both sides; in fact, he seemed frustrated that the politicians he interviewed could not.  If the only reporting in this book were on the events of the election, he'd get a four or five star review from me.<br />Where his bias creeps in is when he explains how the two bad calls of Florida occurred.  It is as though he is telling the reader, \\"Don't be too hard on us.  After all, who would have EVER thought such a fluke could have occurred.\\"  I do believe that if it were up to Jeff Greenfield, there would be no cause for regret at all.  It was fate that led to the press calling Florida twice when it never should have been called at all!<br />He argues, rather persuasively in fact, that calling Florida before all the polls in Florida were closed didn't change the outcome at all.  And he may be right, but I think it would be hard to prove definitively either way, and even if it were true, it doesn't justify calling it when they did at all.<br />As a conservative, while I wish neither call had been made, I have always thought that that was the bigger faux paus.  I don't really believe that the final call after most of the apathetic public had retired for the night truly persuaded them that Bush won.  As a Bush supporter, while I hoped it would come out that way, when the closeness of the vote became clear, I didn't know who won.  I disregarded the media call when they said it was no longer certain.  And initially, before ridiculous things like holding the cards up looking for light to peak through were done, I thought a recount was only reasonable.  The call in the wee hours of the morning didn't convince me of the outcome; the mechanical recount did.  I think most of the public does enough thinking not to just decide Bush won because the press called it too soon.<br />But it was clear that the only call Jeff Greenfield worried much about was the last one.  The fact that the voting in Florida wasn't over before they called it the first time was no big deal.  I don't expect Jeff Greenfield, or anyone who would prefer in his or her heart for Gore to have won to share my emotions about it.  I simply think that they should acknowledge that whether it affected the Florida results or not, it SHOULDN'T have been done, and was something the powers that be that called it should lose a little sleep over.<br />Another reason why I give this book three stars is that it just didn't grip me clear through.  I started out engrossed in the book but found that the last fifty pages or so really started to drag.  I finished the book, but I'm not really sure why I made myself do so.  I guess I felt like his perspective on the final days of how it wound down didn't really offer anything to provoke consideration that hadn't already been discussed before.  I think the point at which it started to drag was after he covered what each side was saying in the aftermath of the recounts.	2003-03-19
US	50153170	R26M3ZXGX2VZOJ	1577485750	576443083	Jesus Wants All of Me: Based on the Classic Devotional by Oswald Chambers: My Utmost for His Highest	Books	1	32	48	N	N	If you want a meaningless devotional time, buy this	Maybe that was a little too harsh.  But I started using this book with my son a couple of weeks ago.  I am always looking for good devotional books, and when I saw this had some good reviews and had enough material for a year, I decided to give it a try.    It is short all right -- maybe three or four sentences on each page.  And my son always wants to know the story about the picture.  But there is no story about the picture, because what is on the page doesn't relate.      When finding devotional material, I want something that will hold my son's interest while teaching him Biblical concepts.  Because there is no story, it doesn't really hold his interest, and the content is so simplified that it is basically meaningless.  After reading it, I often don't see anything we could possibly discuss!    If you want to have an empty ritual every day that you call \\"devotions,\\" this may be a great book for you and your child to use.  But if you want something that will both interest and teach your child, I would recommend looking elsewhere.	2003-02-21
US	50153170	R26QW96PDFMFSU	0880704721	57843073	Pro-Life Answers to Pro-Choice Arguments	Books	5	7	10	N	N	There isn't an argument out there he doesn't refute!	I've been stumped before by pro abortion arguments.  When I have, I've looked them up in this book, and I've yet to hear one raised that wasn't addressed in its pages.  Any other arguments I've heard that I've known an answer to, when I've looked them up, those answers have been here, too, sometimes improved upon.  <br />The answers avoid name calling or explosive rhetoric.  Instead, Alcorn is a master of gentle persuasion.  For anyone involved in the pro-life cause or involved in discussions with someone on the other side, this book would be a valuable resource to have on hand.	2003-01-23
US	50153170	R24CVGPCFU2YUM	0970001606	292117614	Does the Birth Control Pill Cause Abortions?	Books	5	16	25	N	N	Eye-opening evidence; irrefutable logic	Randy Alcorn spells out exactly how the pill works with this booklet.  He explains not just &quot;his opinion,&quot; but research, including what the manufacturers of the pill themselves will tell you about the pill if you ask the right questions.<br />I found out this information probably a year or two before I ever read this pamphlet.  In that time, I shared it with others, either on or contemplating the use of the pill.  The reactions I got to it were often negative.  Arguments and justifications for the use of the pill were offered to me, but none really held up.  <br />That's where the value of this pamphlet comes in.  Alcorn has heard those justifications, too.  He brings them up himself and refutes them.  But his style is not an in your face, confrontational approach.  Rather, he uses gentle persuasion on a very sensitive subject, coming across not as a judge (he reveals that the pill was once his uninformed method of choice), but as another person who understands the desire for birth control, and the responsibility to go about it correctly.<br />This is a great booklet to use, both for those unsure of what they think of the pill, and even to persuade someone who is pretty sure it is okay.  He doesn't call the birth control user a heartless murderer.  He gently persuades them that sometimes the results of hormonal birth control are something other than the user intended.<br />I highly recommend this booklet to anyone willing to consider the possibilities about birth control, and to anyone considering the use of hormones to avoid pregnancy.  If you are going to make that choice, be sure it is an informed one.  This is a great way of getting that information.<br />Another good book by Alcorn as well, with similar methods of persuasion, is Pro-Life Answers to Pro-Choice Arguments.  Both are well worth reading.  In fact, it was while researching that book that Alcorn opened the pandora's box of hormonal birth control.	2003-01-23
US	50153170	RV29F13THCZ7G	0785272372	824556097	Won by Love: Norma McCorvey, Jane Roe of Roe V. Wade, Speaks Out for the Unborn As She Shares Her New Conviction for Life	Books	5	61	69	N	N	Get inside the mind of Jane Roe	This was a fascinating book.  I remember when it first came out that Jane Roe had become a Christian and pro-life.  I remember hearing some concern expressed that perhaps Norma McCorvey might be used by the pro-life movement.  Then I read her book.<br />She talks about her story.  Some don't realize that Norma McCorvey never had an abortion, and didn't think she would have gotten one had she been able to!  She just made the ideal plantiff and was willing to participate in the lawsuit.  She believed in the cause of abortion rights, and so, while she was used, she was willing to be used.<br />In the years that followed, she got involved in the abortion rights movement intimately.  She participated in the movement actively and even worked in an abortion clinic.  She met leaders in the movement, names that we would all recognize.  When she told them who she was, she was personally treated with distain.  The only one who was nice to her as a person was Gloria Allred.  <br />In spite of that, they were willing to use her and her history when it suited them.  On the stage in the rallies, she was a hero.  When the rally was over, she was just Norma McCorvey, someone beneath them.<br />Who was it that brought her to faith in Christ?  It seems impossible, but it was activists in Operation Rescue.  They were nothing but kind to her.  They reached out to her and accepted her even when she was unkind to them.  The way they lived made a profound impression on her.  She wanted what they had.  She became a believer.<br />I think it was soon after her profession of faith that the media got ahold of the news.  They asked her what she believed about abortion, and she said she still thought it should be legal in the first trimester.  Did it anger those who led her to the Lord?  No.  They let her be herself and express what she believed, even if they disagreed.  They privately discussed it with her and eventually persuaded her otherwise, but they never pressured her to be or do anythingother than what she was.<br />She felt that the pro-life movement never used her, but the pro-abortion movement had.  That is really something, I think.<br />Her change of heart was a gradual one, and for a period of time, she worked in the abortion clinic while personally questioning the morality of abortion.  She was a receptionist, and answered calls from prospective clients.  I remember her retelling of a few calls and interactions during that time.  She directed a girl who was troubled about what she was about to do to leave, reschedule, and meet first with the Operation Rescue people!  Another caller, when scheduling her abortion, asked, \\"It's not a baby, yet, right?\\"<br />To which Norma answered, \\"Yes, it is.  What did you think it was, a fish?\\"  <br />I was actually sorry when she left that job.  She may not have been doing the abortion clinic any favors, but she did make a positive difference for some women uncertain of their choice.<br />I thought the book was a page turner, and an amazing story.  Had it been told by anyone else, I'd have been inclined to question the veracity of the story.  It is almost too incredible to be believed, but it IS Norma's story.  I certainly recommend this book.	2003-01-21
US	50153170	R124YYAVQVCQ2L	0800758188	203252344	Passion and Purity: Learning to Bring Your Love Life Under Christ's Control	Books	5	224	235	N	N	A guidebook on the right way to find a mate	I first read this book in my early teens, before I'd ever done any real dating.  I kept going back to it, both when someone of the opposite sex was interesting me, or when down about there being no one in the picture.  She offers a lot of very practical sound advice as to how to go about dating in the right way.  I also found it extremely valuable when I realized that I was single, out of college, and had NO prospects on the horizon.  I was able to accept that I didn't need to worry about that.  God would find me a spouse, so I didn't have to.  And that's exactly what He did.<br />Some have suggested that her personal experience was too different from most people's to be applicable.  To anyone with such a perspective, I would suggest that you are reading it all wrong!  I don't think Elisabeth Elliot would suggest that everyone needs to have a Jim and Elisabeth duplication in their own lives before marrying.  She offers principles that apply regardless of your personal circumstances.<br />A couple of very valuable highlights that stand out to me, years after getting married.  Her chapter on \\"What can a kiss tell you?\\"  was really right on.  Physical communication is tempting, but actually, it shuts down the more important forms of communication for finding Mr. Right, and can actually give you a lot of regret.<br />I also valued the romance in Jim's perspective when he wrote to her, \\"I have you now unravished.\\"  He was grateful to look forward to the time when physical intimacy was right, and to leave something to look forward to!  That is so completely romantic, and I think it is almost tragic that in today's society, that romance is almost unheard of.  People take what isn't theirs don't relish the anticipation of getting it AT THE PROPER TIME.  My husband and I went about it that way, and I found it very romantic, both the anticipation of the consumation of my marriage, as well as when that actually took place.  I wouldn't have wanted to have cheated myself out of that beautiful memory!<br />Old fashioned?  I suppose it is.  Relevant and needed in this day and age?  Absolutely.  When you put your love life in God's hands, that is a safe place to leave it.that beautiful memory!<br />Old fashioned?  I suppose it is.  Relevant and needed in this day and age?  Absolutely.  When you put your love life in God's hands, that is a safe place to leave it.	2003-01-17
US	50153170	R34PAURX2DBCYU	0895261952	266973565	Sellout: The Inside Story of President Clinton's Impeachment	Books	4	15	17	N	Y	Great book, though a little disjointed	I gave this four stars rather than five, simply because, while I found the information on the INS situation revealing (and fitting in with the Clinton administration's other misdeeds), I don't really see how it fit with the rest of the focus, that of the impeachment saga.<br />It was interesting to get the perspective of Schippers and the House Managers that he provided.  As an interested onlooker, I don't think I realized just how badly they were shafted when they were not permitted to conduct a real trial.  I got the idea that Monica was \\"all they had.\\"  It wasn't, not by a long shot.  And had they had time to properly present it, history may have had different results.<br />I am sure that Schippers would say that his research into the INS situation applied directly to the abuse of power charge, and while I would agree that had it been completed and determined to be as it appeared, that would be true, the fact is, that research wasn't completed.  Were a full 20% of the naturalized citizens prior to the election in 1996 felons?  Perhaps.  But I don't suppose we'll ever know, and since we don't, perhaps it shouldn't have been hinted at in the first place in this book.<br />As an insider's view on the trial of President Clinton, it is a worthwhile read.  But since the allegations regarding the hastened naturalization of new citizens in time for the 1996 Presidential elections was unproven, I guess I question whether it should have been brought up.	2003-01-17
US	50153170	R1J5UZENAF6MR9	1556611897	623167722	In My Father's House (Shiloh Legacy, Book 1)	Books	5	18	18	N	N	You live through what the characters did	The Shiloh series is the best of the Thoene's work, but all of it is excellent.  What really stood out to me, reading this book, was the experience of the black soldier.  He served many more hours on the front lines, fighting in the most dangerous positions.  He was honored while overseas for his service.  Then he went home, proudly wearing the uniform in which he served his country, and was condemned for being uppity.  Who did he think he was?<br />These black men were beaten, accused of crimes they didn't commit, and lynched.<br />As a white woman, I could never live that experience.  But I lived it vicariously along with Jefferson Canfield.  <br />The characters are real, with strengths and flaws, just as the people we meet every day.  They experience good things, but they also experience horrible, awful things too.  That's life.<br />It isn't light reading, but it IS riviting.  And it is educational, because you experience things along with the people in the books, things that really happened at the time.  I loved the love story between Birch and Trudy and the biding friendship that developed between Jeff and Birch.<br />This ties in with the Zion books, too, because Max Meyer and Ellis Warne were the fathers of two of the main characters in the Zion Chronicles, I believe, David Meyer and Ellie Warne.<br />They are worth reading.  The only drawback is that once you've read the first, you HAVE to read them all, and they are LONG books!	2003-01-16
US	50153170	R1JHCBTPYY2YI0	1556611919	980846028	Say to This Mountain (Shiloh Legacy Series, Book 3)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Excellent book by excellent authors	I love books by the Thoenes, but any book from this series ranks right at the top of the list.  *Say to this Mountain* is real.  It deals with what was reality in America in 1930.  Doctors forced to imagine illnesses in employees of a factory in order to keep their jobs.  Black men arrested and losing their property to [...] sherriffs.  A man and his son chased by a mafia member who desired nothing more than to execute them both.<br />I can imagine that some people might read those things and think that it sounds too sad to read for pleasure.  Please don't assume that.  There is so much beauty to the people and the stories that it is enjoyable reading.  <br />Life can be good to live even when one goes through awful things.  The same is true in the books that we read.  Even though we may ache for the people in the stories, we love them.  We live along with them.<br />This book, along with the other books in the series, is excellent, because it gets you to live right along side those in the books.  You don't just learn about their lives.  You participate in them in a very real sense.	2001-10-05
US	50153170	R3EK7RWT87XSNG	0060194855	678873627	Truth at Any Cost: Ken Starr and the Unmaking of Bill Clinton	Books	5	7	12	N	Y	Informative and Enlightening	From the first time I saw this book, I knew I wanted to read it.  I wanted the inside story, something other than what the headlines told through the impeachment saga.  This book fulfilled those expectations.  As a stay at home mom, I had the time to give to watching the impeachment unfold.  I took in as much information as I possibly could as it happened.  Even so, there was information in this book that never reached the evening news or newspapers, so I found out some things I never knew before.<br />Some have complained that this book gave more of the Independent Council's perspective rather than that of the White House.  To those with such a complaint, I would say, note the title and cover of the book.  It is about Ken Starr, not Bill Clinton.  Naturally, his perspective is going to be more prominent than that of the White House.  If that surprises you, I can't imagine why.<br />Even though the book is about Ken Starr, it does not present him from a biased perspective, as near as I can gather.  I am a conservative, so it is possible that I could have missed something, but it seemed to me well balanced.  You got a clear picture of Starr (and other's in his office) for his strengths AND his weaknesses.  You can't help but wonder if perhaps some of those flaws had not been a part of the story, maybe the outcome would have been different.<br />It is a worthwhile read, for those who want to catch up with what happened in the Monica Lewinsky situation as well as those who soaked up every detail as it happened.  There is new information there for everyone.	2001-06-04
US	50153170	R2RWEC8AVV0BOF	084230052X	327951572	The Atonement Child	Books	5	6	9	N	N	A riveting story that makes you think	I just read this book, a book I wanted to read from the time I knew it existed.  It was the compelling story I knew it would be.  I found the reactions of Dynah and the people around her -- the college dean, her fiance, her parents, etc. -- to be very realistic.  I found myself thinking that many women in such a situation would find the same kind a reaction to their circumstances, even in the Christian community.  Other people certain of what SHE must do, their acceptance of her hinging on whether or not she did what they wanted.<br />Dynah's story beautifully illustrates that what happens after a rape can be nearly as traumatic on the victim as the rape itself.  It also shows that something truly beautiful can come out of evil circumstances when God is involved.<br />I highly recommend this book.  I would only caution that you should set aside plenty of time to read it, because you won't want to put it down!	2001-04-01
US	50153170	ROGRYOQX6E81M	083081650X	644598495	Knowing God	Books	5	12	15	N	N	The greatest influence on my life, apart from the Bible	I first read this book the spring semester of my freshman year in college.  It was compelling reading, a book that developed in my heart a real hunger to know God.  Aside from the Bible, no other book has come close to this one in terms of deepening my walk with God.<br />I highly recommend it.  Any Christian who is serious about his relationship with his Lord should read it.  If you do read it, you will be very glad you did.	2001-04-01
US	50153170	R21FVPUATXAUC	1573580686	362627811	Wrongly Dividing the Word of Truth: A Critique of Dispensationalism (Second Edition)	Books	5	51	67	N	N	Very persuasive work	I am a graduate of a solidly Dispensational Bible college.  It was this book that changed my thinking.  I highly recommend it.<br />It is easy to criticize, because the book is geared toward old line Dispensationalism, the type that is not commonly held by many modern Dispensationalists.  I recognize that that is true.  There were certain parts of the book that didn't apply much to what I had been taught, aspects of my beliefs that had already been more in line with what Gerstner taught than what he was refuting.<br />Never the less, there was enough relevant information in the book that it really got me to thinking about what I had always been taught and accepted as the truth.  I looked more carefully, comparing what I believed to the Bible, and came away with Reformed doctrine when my study was through.<br />I highly recommend it to any Dispensationalist who is willing to analyze what he believes, testing it with the time honored truths of God's Word.  You will be glad you did it.	2001-04-01
US	50153170	R6RK36ASW8G4V	0517187868	446153774	Thomas the Tank Engine: The Complete Collection	Books	5	64	68	N	N	A great investment!	We bought this book a year ago, and my son still enjoys listening to the stories.  He has heard each at least three times, some of them many more times besides.  As his mother, who has read through the book with him twice myself, *I* love the stories, too!  They teach good lessons and are very entertaining at the same time.<br />It actually is not true that all Thomas stories are in this book.  All the original stories by the original author are, but more stories have been made up by less skilled story writers, in my opinion.  The BEST Thomas stories are the ones in this book.<br />The shorter story books have been Americanized, and I think that makes them lose some of their appeal.  For instance, the Fat Controller in this book has been renamed in the shorter books and videos to his proper name, &quot;Sir Topham Hatt.&quot;  Political correctness meets Thomas the Tank Engine.  In my opinion, they were better unchanged, and that is what you have in this book.<br />If you have a toddler, I highly recommend this book.  One word of warning, though.  Then come the Thomas train sets, and the videos . . . you will never be through with Thomas once you start!	2001-03-31
US	50153170	R3OO7V70I97O7R	0140360778	681142087	The Road to Memphis	Books	5	2	3	N	N	A gripping book that leaves you longing for more	I read the first two books of the series years ago, but only just recently discovered this book even existed.  I just finished it.  My only complaint about it is that there is no sequel.  In the end, I was left wondering, Does Cassie become a lawyer?  How many of the boys in that book died in a white man's war?  Was Moe ever caught and prosecuted?  Did Troy Aames die?<br />But this book was real; it allowed you to experience what happened firsthand; and while it dealt with serious, weighty issues, it was a joy to read.  Anyone who hasn't read it has missed something.  It is MUST reading!<br />Mildred D. Taylor is a gifted author with few that are her equal.  She has the ability to write in such a way that the reader lives the story instead of just reads it.  Because that is true, her books do, on some level, change the lives of those who read them.	2001-03-18
US	50153170	R13WA6XVWQWN18	0140348921	876823989	Let the Circle Be Unbroken	Books	5	12	16	N	Y	Gifted author makes you live the story	Mildred Taylor, through these books, and this one in particular, gave me, a white woman born two generations later, an understanding of what it was like to be black in the South in the 1930's.  I think it was through this book that I began to understand that slavery didn't end as a result of the Civil War.  It was renamed &quot;sharecropping,&quot; and allowed to continue, probably to some degree until the Civil Rights movement.  <br />The story of TJ Avery was moving.  TJ was framed for a murder committed by two white men, then tried in court before an all white Southern jury, people who seemed to presume that the value of black people was similar to the value of farm animals.  They were equipment to be used and discarded.  What justice was there for them in that environment?<br />I learned to empathize while reading with their plight.  Somehow, though, that wasn't difficult or a chore.  I enjoyed the book and couldn't put it down.  I would urge anyone who hasn't read them to read all three of the books in this series.  They are worthwhile reading, indeed.	2001-03-18
US	50153170	R194685B2NBR25	0140384510	287534538	Roll of Thunder, Hear My Cry (Puffin Modern Classics)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	This is a tremendous book!	The best children's book is a book that would be loved by all generations.  That is definitely true for this book.  This book taught me what the lives of black Americans were like for seventy years and beyond after the Civil War.  I think it also gives a glimpse of what led them in the direction they have gone culturally, since.<br />Even white readers will begin, through this book, to sort of live empathetically through what they lived -- the struggle to make ends meet in a system designed to continue to enslave them, the struggle to keep a good name while being blamed for the crimes of white men, and just what life was like for the descendants of slaves in the 1930's.<br />I highly recommend this book to anyone of any age who hasn't yet read it.  It will captivate you.  It will make you laugh, cry, and experience every emotion in between.  But it will be well worth it, and you will be glad you did.	2001-03-15
US	50153170	R2SJQAZ2WI0GDJ	0964888602	979438778	Lime 5 : Exploited by Choice	Books	5	46	49	N	N	Why the abortion industry is a mess	The information found in this book is hard to find elsewhere, but it is well documented.  He doesn't make it up.  People need to know the risks, especially since the abortion industry is unregulated in comparison to other medical procedures, thanks to politics.  <br />I found the information in Lime 5 shocking and depressing.  Women fought for the right to abort, and now that same obsession with that right has led to an unregulated industry with serious health consequences.  <br />Crutcher outlines these risks in this book extremely well, from the risk of death, sterility, breast cancer, even rape and sexual assault.  It isn't a book to be read for pleasure, but it is necessary to be well informed.  It is a must read on the issue of abortion.	2001-02-04
US	50153170	R2E5KHZ1S5CA8W	084994001X	562827267	I Should Forgive, But	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Great lessons on how to forgive	This is a great book.  The techniques it recommends were the ones I used years ago when I had someone I needed to forgive.<br />I borrowed the book a while back, and when God brought another situation needing forgiveness in  my life, I realized I needed my own copy.<br />A lack of forgiveness leads to  bitterness, which is most distructive to the one who NEEDS to forgive, not  the one who offended.  This book helps the reader forgive so that  bitterness is no longer a problem.	2000-05-30
US	50153170	R1AFGZDUHO120N	1576734587	12194163	On Becoming Baby Wise	Books	1	13	17	N	N	A Breastfeeding Disaster	I knew long before I had children that I wanted to nurse them. The Babywise plan was recommended to me by a number of people. The outcome was a desirable one, but it seemed to recommend that women do the exact  opposite of what lactation consultants advise. Could it work with  breastfeeding?<br />By some miracle, some women do succeed at breastfeeding  and scheduling their baby's feeds. But they are the lucky ones. I read a  study on how a woman's body makes milk, and I read that women produce more  milk during the in between periods than previously thought, but women  differ in how much milk they can store in their bodies by as much as 300%.  <br />Every woman can produce enough milk to nourish her baby, the study  concluded, but some women must nurse more often than others to produce the  same amount.<br />Another analysis of the Babywise method I read said that it  was most likely to work in babies who were at least 8 lbs. at birth.<br />I  also read somewhere that a newborn has a stomach the size of a walnut.  Also, breastmilk is digested more quickly by babies than formula is, so  these babies naturally need to nurse more often. One must also consider  that this child faces the task of tripling his body weight in the next  year.<br />It wasn't the idea that this was cruel to babies that most turned  me off of the Babywise plan (although I do think it is cruel to use a  baby's nourishment to try to &quot;teach&quot; it patience when the baby is  developmentally not ready to understand the concept). It was the scientific  facts that spoke loudly against the use of this plan for breastfed  babies.<br />If you want to use this plan and intend to (or are) formula feed  your babies, go for it, as long as the baby's health is not jeopardized.  But if you plan to nurse and want to succeed, don't do it. Or realize that  using this plan may possibly keep you from successfully nursing.<br />You've  got to decide what is more important to you, the best nourishment for yourchild or a peaceful night's sleep. My vote was the best nourishment of my  child, and I'll never regret it.	2000-05-19
US	50153170	R2VU93TYO3M9MM	0394829255	225378084	Big Joe's Trailer Truck	Books	5	8	9	N	N	This book is good for generations	When my brother was little, this was his favorite book.  It is detailed, in pictures and discriptions, with plenty to fuel the imagination.  I remember reading it to him, and he learned it so well that we could leave  words out and he would fill them in as we read it.<br />I am a mother of a  little boy of my own, now, and was thrilled to discover it was still in  print!  I am reading it to my own son, who already enjoys it and gets it  out to look at himself.<br />If you have a toddler boy, be sure to keep a copy  of this book in your home library!  They will love it!	2000-05-13
