US	50164230	R3SL5B3EAU42YE	0345444388	397145373	The Scar (Bas-Lag)	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Another colossal slice of strangeness...	The Scar is another massive work of contemporary urban baroque fantasy by the extraorinarily talented if rather undisciplined China Mieville. <br />Set in the same world as Perdido Street Station, the protagonist, Bella Coldwine, is captured whilst fleeing the great city of New Crobuzon by sea, and made an unwilling citizen of the legendary floating pirate city of Armada. This extraordinary place is made up of the remains of captured ships lashed together into a fantastically varied marine metropolis, each district built around a particular large vessel, which seems to lend its character to the government and culture of the district. And what variations they are! From democracies through dictatorships to an area that voluntarily pays for its security in blood to its vampire master, the variety of political systems is both crucial to the plot and provides rich and complex lessons for our own societies. <br />The whole ungainly melange is given some sense of unity through the ultimate leadership of the enigmatic 'Lovers' - whose strange hold on the city is combined with a publically visible sado-masochistic scaring. The mysterious plans of the Lovers for Armada involving the harnessing of a mythical transdimensional Leviathan form the basis for the plot, along with Bellis' own attempts to escape the flottila. In this she becomes involved with the machinations of underground politics and espionage and inevitably strays way beyond her depth. <br />As in Perdido Street Station, the sheer inventivenes of Mieville is crazed and marvellous: an island of mosquito people whose mindless thirst for human nourishment sometimes outweighs their rationality; humans 'remade' to work underwater; terrifying leech-like beings from other dimensions who can 'swim' through air... and above all the great ramshackle mass of Armada itself, a city even more edgy and dangerous than New Crobuzon. <br />Mieville's writing is rich and luscious, and the breadth of his invention is matched by the depth of his intelligence. As previous reviewers have pointed out, this book is saturated in metaphors of scars, and the characters are diverse, dangerous and flawed with wonderfully evocative names that echo the melodrama of Dickens and the eccentricity of Mervyn Peake. <br />So what's wrong with it? <br />The ending. The same thing that marred Perdido Street Station. It is almost as if Mieville charges headlong through his plot with invention scattering in his path and then... he just stops. This could be conceived of as subverting traditional fantasty plot structures, but I think he just can't think of satisfactory ways to resolve a narrative yet. Still, a brave and magnificent book.	2003-04-24
US	50164230	R2XTVOCY3UIQ6I	0262621657	444501158	CTRL [SPACE]: Rhetorics of Surveillance from Bentham to Big Brother	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Beautiful and Useful	Have you ever wanted a book that not only informs and educates you about surveillance and social control, but also offers you visual examples and responses from a varied and unusual selection of academics, journalists, artists, film-makers and more? I may be unusual, but I know I have!<br />CTRL [SPACE] offers not only new artwork and new articles from important researchers and theorists like Lev Manovich and Peter Weibel, including a fascinating piece on the links between the eye of God and modern surveillance by Astrid Schmidt-Burkhardt, but also: reprints of classic pieces from the likes of Foucault, Virilio, Deleuze, extracts of work on the cold war and computing by Paul Edwards and top-class investigative journalism on the NSA's Echelon system by Duncan Campbell, descriptions of efforts to resist surveillance from groups like the Surveillance Camera Players and the Institute for Applied Autonomy, and reconsiderations of both artistic, architectural and philosophical contributions to surveillance theory from Bentham to Warhol and Yoko Ono. <br />Although, it features almost no contemporary work from the field of surveillance studies (David Lyon, Gary Marx, Clive Norris et al.) it is a combination of sourcebook and idiosyncratic lucky-dip of contemporary surveillance discourses. This book is MIT Press at its best: it is beautifully-produced and does full justice to the work of the artists and commentators featured in the exhibition upon which it is based. The only slightly irritating feature about its otherwise admirable design is the use of intertextual footnotes in light grey, which are sometimes hard to read. <br />Altogether - recommended and worth it even at this price.	2002-11-02
US	50164230	R408LGM4M3BFW	067182838X	13260323	The Genocides	Books	3	13	14	N	N	A Taste of Things to Come...	In 'The Genocides', the remains of humanity struggle against the onward growth of an alien monoculture known simply as 'the Plants', which has destroyed civilisation and left only pockets of survivors. <br />The novel starts well, in an almost Faulknerian community of farmers, lead by the dominating and deluded fundamentalist patriarch, Anderson, who are trying to maintain their cornfields and animals against this relentless growth, along with alien attempts at 'pest control' (essentially the slaughter of all living beings remaining on Earth). The plot concentrates on what happens to the dynamics of this community when it is decimated by one of these genocidal attacks, and then forced to welcome a charismatic and educated urban survivor, Jeremiah Orville. His revenge on Anderson for killing his partner, is slow and cunning and pits the old patriarch's children against each other and against him, as the devastated group is forced to seek shelter underground in the roots of the Plants themselves. <br />'The Gencocides' was Disch's first novel and suffers from a common fault of first novels, and of 1960s sf, in having a great concept but being really rather aimless for long stretches (see also Brian Aldiss' 'Hothouse' as another example of this). The characters switch between being a more realistic band of survivors than, for example, those in Stewart's 'Earth Abides' - with some intriguing and challenging interpersonal conflict - to melodramatic and over-cooked. The long passages underground are claustrophobic and tense to begin with, full of dark and squelchy atmosphere, but soon become dull as Disch, rather like the characters themselves, loses the plot. <br />The novel is redeemed somewhat by a fine, cinematic and depressingly gloomy ending, but, like 'Hothouse', you can't help but think it would have been better as a novella.  Sf in general improved as early 1960s superficiality gave way to anger and disappointment with Disch's own extremely grim and disturbing 'Camp Concentration', and the work of Spinrad ('Bug Jack Barron'), Moorcock ('The Cornelius Quartlet'), Ballard ('The Atrocity Exhibition', 'Hi-rise' etc.) and Brunner ('Stand on Zanzibar', 'The Sheep Look Up' etc.). 'The Genocides' is still worth reading as a book that stands on the cusp of this revolution, as the older more complacent sf was faced with this tide of energetic bitterness and loathing.	2002-11-02
US	50164230	RKDU9UFYCCA2U	0671014994	930252669	Always Outnumbered, Always Outgunned	Books	5	22	22	N	N	True wisdom	This has to come close to being the best collection of short-stories written in English during the last twenty years. <br />At their best the taut writing and uncanny ability to explode the confusion and emptiness at the heart of many people's lives recalls Raymond Carver, but where Carver is content to leave his ethics enigmatic, Mosley is righteous and fierce. This is not to say that the central character, Socrates Fortlow is a judgemental moralist. Far from it. This burly ex-con with his huge rock-crushing hands and terrible past, is searching for truth in a world where truth is no much unfashionable as crushed out of people's souls by  injustice. He is a seeker not a saviour. <br />The stories also form the link between Mosley's crime writing and his outstanding first SF novel, Blue Light, where issues of metaphysics are brought further into the foreground. Through the stories, Socrates acquires a kind of nobility that can only come from a totally honest struggle our own impulses as well as with the environment that surrounds us. There is a sense of place in 'Always Outnumbered, Always Outgunned' that is very specific to 1980s Watts, but  mythic and resonant and almost timeless at the same time. This only comes from genuine wisdom and understanding, qualities in which Mosley far outshines almost all contemporary authors. <br />There are one or two weaker stories, notably one in which Socrates gets involved with the courts again, but this is a collection to come back to. And as with Raymond Carver, I felt compelled to stop for quite some time after each one as the subtle but powerful emotional impact percolated through my brain.	2002-10-01
US	50164230	RN7JGS5R379SU	055329024X	707064829	Earth	Books	4	4	4	N	N	A Strange Mixture	'Earth' is a bit of a strange mixture: it is a considered ecosocial critique patched onto a not entirely serious B-movie disaster plot and terrible deus-ex-machina ending. Brin can certainly write, and 'Earth' is  a great read (until the end), populated by many well-painted characters, from the major protagonists like Alex Lustig, creator of the world-threatening miniature black hole, to the minor roles, like the excruciatingly realistic middle-class teenage gangmembers in Bloomington, Illinois. Disregard the pulp plot, and it is also a highly thoughtful and perhaps prophetic portrait of a world which has suffered environmental meltdown and where privacy is a forgotten concept. Until the troubles of Worldcom, Enron and AOL etc., I had thought Brin's backstory of a global war against coporate secrecy was amusing but far-fetched. Now I am not so sure... something's going to have to give.<br />I'm also surprised nobody seems to have noticed its strong resemblance to John Brunner's brilliant and cynical early 1970s environmental dystopia, 'Stand on Zanzibar'. The setting and the structure of 'Earth', with its multiple storylines split by excerpts from imaginary nonfiction works and internet chatrooms, is strongly influenced by Brunner's novel, and Brin also directly pinches the figure of the 'mucker', someone who is driven to senseless spree-killing by the deteriorating environmental conditions. Brin's work is far more optimistic than Brunner's, however whereas I would still rate 'Stand on Zanzibar' as one of the greatest SF novels of all time, 'Earth' is disjointed, but fun.	2002-07-27
US	50164230	R21KPJ9UV11UCI	057507096X	467810654	No Enemy But Time	Books	1	19	26	N	N	No Enemy But Style	It is really hard to know what to say about this book, other than that I din't enjoy it, but forced myself to read it until the end, something I rarely have to do. <br />There is no point in treating this as hard SF, because the central technology is almost entirely ludicrous and pretty much irrelevent to the story. This, instead, is SF on the fringes of magic realism and the fantasy of dreams, usually my favourite kind of reading. Such SF stands or falls on its literary qualities. <br />'No Enemy But Time' doesn't so much fall as collapse. <br />The problem with Bishop's writing is that it appears oh-so-self-consciously literary in a kind of know-it-all university English Literature graduate way. In describing Joshua Kampa's adventures in the Pleistocene, the narration attempts to be jaunty and witty and light in the manner of the classic picaresque - think Cervantes here - but this not only jars horribly with the character of Joshua (or John-John) as established in the parrallel, and much more engaging, story of his difficult earlier life, but also appears almost entirely inappropriate to the events described and the emotional development of the novel. It is the kind of SF praised by mainstream critics who claim not to like SF, and is exactly the kind of thing that the Cyberpunk movement - which appeared on the scene not long after this was published - understandably aimed to eradicate. It also compares very badly with other 'is it time-travel or is it a dream?' novels, in particular Marge Piercy's moving 'Woman on the Edge of Time'. <br />Style is at least partly a matter of personal taste, so in giving a book such a poor review almost entirely based on style - although the story is pretty weak too - I do not want to put others off reading 'No Enemy But Time'. But don't say I didn't warn you.	2002-07-27
US	50164230	R5604P0AA99DF	0812816242	14210964	The Lion of Boaz-Jachin and Jachin-Boaz	Books	4	11	11	N	N	Fathers and Sons (and Lions)	An early novel from the supremely talented Russell Hoban, this is a well-crafted slice of magic realism set in an unnamed country somewhere bordering the Black Sea in that part of the world so fascinating to outsiders, that is neither entirely European, Asian nor Arabic.<BR> <BR>This is a novel about about fathers and sons. Jachin-Boaz makes maps in a small town: all kinds of maps, from the mundane to the more bizarre; for example, a map for voyeurs. He creates the ultimate map for his son, Boaz-Jachin, which will enable him to find everything, but Boaz-Jachin, the dreamer, rejects it because will not help him locate the long-extinct lions. Depressed and disatisfied, Jachin-Boaz leaves his wife and son for the city and makes a new life for himself. <br />Boaz-Jachin meanwhile conjures up a lion, neither entirely real nor entirely metaphysical, from ancient carvings, which stalks his father in the city. He also leaves his home and searches for his father, with only the map, a guitar and his good looks to keep him on track. But, not knowing where to start, he heads off into the unknown, and experiences a picaresque series of surreal encounters and events along the way. <br />The book is is full of humour as well as being quite a serious meditation on love, family relationships, and on what life lacks without mystery. It is also beautifully written, economical in style, concludes well and does not outstay its welcome. Read it, and you'll find yourself wanting to seek out Hoban's other novels too.	2002-07-27
US	50164230	R29T5GVR8P0EVK	0575014857	428376990	Other Days, Other Eyes	Books	3	8	12	N	N	A fix-up too far?	Bob Shaw's short stories about 'slow glass', were carefully crafted, moving and elegant. Unfortunately, this brilliance was somewhat subverted by the conversion of those stories into novel form.<br />Whereas the themes of the stories are centred around memory and loss, the novel turns this on its head with a recycled plot about the inventor who accidentally destroys the world. In the novel's case, the basic idea is almost entirely ripped off Asimov's 'The Dead Past', in which a technology is unleashed on the world which allows everyone to spy on everyone else. In Shaw's novel, Alban Garrod's invention of a new form of glass which slows light, results eventually in the government deploying ubiquitous slow glass dust, turning everything into a potential surveillance device.<br />The emotional development of the novel is also poor, not to say thunderingly misogynistic (a trait to be found in many of Shaw's novels of this period). Alban Garrod is held back by his nagging wife, Esther, whose father initially provided him with seed capital. He finds freedom with a beautiful, compliant, and vaguely oriental-looking secretary, while Esther is left blinded by an accident at his home laboratory. This blindness means she is able to hold on to Garrod and force him to act as her eyes, by making him wear a pair of slow glass 'lenses' which she can then wear the next day, so he is almsost literally forced to live in the past. It is all very heavy-handed and unpleasant, and there are similar strains of misogyny in other Shaw novels, especially 'Orbitsville'. It is odd, because I had never noticed this in his short pieces, and it unfortunately tends to lessen my appreciation of Shaw as a writer.<br />Despite all this, there is an intriguingly poetic technology at the centre of this novel, and some insightful commentary on the politics of surveillance and privacy, and you still get the excellent original short stories included as 'sidelights' to the main plot.	2002-07-27
US	50164230	R221I6TZARAQLN	3828600727	496858663	Libidissi: Roman (German Edition)	Books	1	1	4	N	N	Pretentious nonsense	I got hold of a translated edition of this book. The reviews on the back cover were almost hagiographic, and all I can say, having read it, is that the author must have a lot of good friends who are German and Austrian newspaper book reviewers. <br />I am a sucker for books set in imaginary cities, and have spent many happy hours in Virconium, New Crobuzon, and Hav. Actually, Klein's Libidissi has so much in common with Jan Morris' inventive and delightful Last Letters from Hav, that the uncharitable reader might suggest plagiarism. And I was feeling very uncharitable after wading through this contrastingly dull offering. Its artificial near-eastern setting is patronising to the point of racism, again unlike Morris' witty Hav.<br />From the annoying device of having the first narrator refer to himself as 'I=Spaik' to the oh-so-clever hints of kinship with Kafka, Calvino, Irwin, Ransmayr and other genuinely imaginative writers, this is a limp, unimaginitive bit of postmodern nonsense which tries to convince you that its meanderings actually hint at something deep and mysterious - but they don't.<br />It seems this book is now out of print and hard to find. It deserves to stay that way.	2002-07-20
US	50164230	R15AO4Z0YYHV9T	0671039016	441459633	The Computer Connection	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Psychedelic Screwball Comedy	Though the always over-the-top Harlan Ellison does a fantastic job in the introduction of convincing you that this boook is the equal of Bester's greats, 'The Demolished Man' and 'The Stars My Destination', it isn't quite in that class. <br />Don't let that put you off, however. The Computer Connection packs in more wacky offbeat ideas in a single book than most writers have in a lifetime, and it is all done at a breakneck velocity fast enough to pass the likes of Michael Marshall Smith in the slow lane (and that's no insult to Smith). <br />The plot revolves around a small and select group of people made immortal through a particularly traumatic death - the narrator was roasted in a volcano, for example. The immortals take identities based on historical figures, which reflect their abilities and interests - there is a Christ, an Indian rajah and so on. Bester's depiction of immortals has only been bettered by Michael Moorcock in 'Dancers at the End of Time'. In seeking to expand their number, they accidently enable a powerful computer, Extro, to take over the candidate, the brilliant Cherokee physicist, Sequoya Guess. Extro then proceeds to use Guess to carry out its plans to rid the world of humans. Not only that, but there appear to be a traitor amongst the immortals themselves.<br />This review can hardly do any sort of justice to the utterly bizarre world that Bester has created, a world where giant pogo-sticks appear to be a major form of transport. As Ellison says, it's like a classic Hollywood screwball commedy (only forced through a giant psychedelic sieve). The only problem with this kind of commedy is that it is difficult to sustain over novel length, and Bester doesn't quite manage it; the book runs out of steam some time before the end. Still a must-read for any fan of New Wave (or any other) SF.	2002-07-15
US	50164230	R1M85CI9PVCM8Z	0765303922	170230601	Whole Wide World	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Murder Under Surveillance	I've read Whole Wide World twice now. The first time I was slightly disappointed to find that an imaginative and visionary author like Paul McAuley had produced what seemed merely a competent technothriller. The second time, the competence was undoubtedly clear, in fact I'd go so far as to say that in terms of pacing, characterisation and plot, this is as good a technothriller as you will find. However it is also far more than a good vacation read - it is also a throughtful consideration of the very serious social questions posed by intensfied surveillance. <br />McAuley's near future England is still suffering the effects of an unsolved terrorist attack on its information systems. The legal and moral climate has become harsher and the events have led to even more intensive surveillance of public places and communications, in particular a new intelligent video surveillance system, the Autonomous Distributed Expert Surveillance System (ADESS) that 'learns' as it watches. The case is murder: a student with a taste for digital art and web exhibtitionism, is killed under the eye of her webcams. She also happens to be the niece of the inventor of ADESS. Called upon to investigate is our largely anaymous hero - the book is written from his point of view so we get nicknames: 'minimum' because of his height 'Dixon'; after an old BBC TV detective because of his old-fashioned style; and eventually a first name, John. But no surname. He is an outsider but not the classic outsider cop - intelligent, honest, short, keeps fit, doesn't drink or smoke too much - but he does bend the rules, gets personally involved and mess up, and is hated by many other cops because his role in failing to stop a terrorist bombing that killed several other policemen (when in fact he was trying to stop those same policemen beating and raping a suspect). Very much a sympathetic narrator, and well characterised, as are many of the other protagonists. <br />Surprisingly there isn't really much related to surveillance in SF, and the great Encyclopedia of Science Fiction doesn't even have an entry for it. Apart for the mainstream classics like Zamiatin's 'We', Orwell's '1984', and Huxley's 'Brave New World', all you are left with is Anthony's ridiculous 'Macroscope', Bob Shaw's vraiable fix-up, 'Other Days, Other Eyes', and a few short stories like Asimov's 'The Dead Past' and Knight's 'I See You'. David Brin has written libertarian non-fiction about surveillance, 'The Transparent Society', but it only features in the background of novels like 'Earth'. Of course there is Philip K. Dick, but his scramble-suited infiltrators and psi-cop stories, however excellent, are very much more concerned with the metaphysics of identity than with real world developments. <br />It is therefore good to see a talent like McAuley consider the issues. And the UK is the right location - we have more surveillance cameras per head of population that anywhere else in the world, and very little public debate. ADESS isn't an unrealistic possibility: there are already working facial recognition systems, and neural networks will make 'learning' systems very likely. What McAuley does is consider how these technologies relate to power and manipulation - it isn't a case of whether these systems 'get into the wrong hands', but when and how they are abused. His portrayal is a lot more sophisticated than Brin's optimistic libertarianism, and does not shy away from posing the big questions about states, corporations and profit, without at the same time arguing that surveillance is all bad. <br />All in all, a technothriller with more to think about in it than most, especially if you realise than the UK's CCTV networks are being looked at as an example by many states, including the USA, after September 11th. Recommended.	2002-06-24
US	50164230	R2XE8136WAW0U1	0061050938	458611053	Schild's Ladder	Books	2	6	9	N	N	Too Much Science, Not Enough Fiction	One of the great pleasures of being a reader is in the anticipation of a new book. The disappointment of expectations is perhaps the greatest pain. Greg Egan has always been one of those writers whose new work excites intense anticipation. However recently I have been feeling the pain of disappointment more and more often.<br />Schild's Ladder has all the ingredients of an Egan classic: speculations on quantum physics, universe-spanning disaster, and characters to whom race, age, size and gender have become meaningless but who nevertheless maintain emotional lives. <br />Unfortunately this mixture is just too generous with the 'scientific' ingredients, and too sparing with the 'fictional' elements. In fact, except for an all too short flight beyond the border of the 'novo-vacuum', the artifically created and rapidly expanding new universe which threatens the survival of our own, and a few episodes of personal backstory and momentary action, the book appears to consist entirely of characters talking about scientific theory. And whilst the speculation is interesting it simply does not engage emotionally with the reader. <br />There are some superb moments within the book though: as usual Egan is adept at describing the dislocation brought about by altered dimension - at the start the scientist Cass is reduced (rather grumpily) to a few milimetres in height in order to save space at the Mimosa experimental station; there are also some sparklingly clever angles shown on the problems of movement within the Novo Vacuum whose natural laws are entirely alien to our own. <br />In addition one of the most engaging sequences concerns the infiltration and sabotage of the project to study the Novo-vacuum by 'anachronauts', reactionary humans who refuse the benefits of articifially-enhanced intelligence and so on. The sequence is particularly effective as it involves a fight in spacesuits outside the research station, a scene that could have been taken from the Golden Age of SF,and now itself anachronistic within contemporary science fiction - making the anachronauts appear doubly out-of-place. The explosives disguised as pot-plants only add to the effective combination of farce and menace in this section of the book. <br />However the moments of great writing only highlight the steady, even dull, temper of the majority of the book. Schild's Ladder is simply too much science and not enough fiction.	2002-05-22
US	50164230	R1K97X8JWKUIS0	0765303787	480333484	Appleseed	Books	4	16	20	N	N	Luxuriant language conceals a thin story	John Clute is a singular SF critic: he writes with verve and style and with a unashamedly vaste vocabulary. Indeed his unapologetically fertile use of words, his love of language as a sensuous and liquid thing, alienate some who prefer a more direct and uncomplicated approach. His knowledge of the genre is also unmatched, and would be called 'encylopaedic' had he not in fact edited the definitive encyclopaedia in the field. <br />Given this background one might expect his first SF novel, a dense and intense reimagining of the classic space opera, to be a unique confection, and this it certainly is in these two respects at least. <br />This book delights in words, it explodes with linguistic pyrotechnics, it exalts in unexpected juxtapositions of the obscure and the mundane, of the arcane and the obscene, it drowns the reader is an almost cloyingly rich thesauric stew. In this sense it is an astonishing book, a novel whose language both makes and mirrors the baroque universe in which it is set. Because the language does work. It is not simply filagree, it is the substance and structure of the book and it does its job: I have never read a more utterly atmospheric and engulfing description of the process of landing on an alien trading world as Clute presents in the first two dozen pages of Appleseed. <br />Secondly, Clute's vast knowledge of SF enables him to play with tropes, concepts and situations in away that is a delight for the afficianado. There are references everywhere, only some of which are credited in the afterword. There are also some fascinating inventions of his own: the azulejaria tiles which line 'Tile Dance', the ship piloted by the protagonist, Nathanial Freer, and which are simultaneously story and storage; the world of Klavier as a multi-dimensional palimpset, layer upon layer, twist within turn; and the hilarious treatment of human odour and sexuality within a universe where most species find sex offensive and use smell to communicate subtle and complex matters. <br />But... and this is a big 'but'...<br />Some of the borrowings are more than references. The central notion of the entropic data 'plaque' infecting the universe, and indeed many of the situations, species, and general 'feel' of Clute's universe, while by no means exactly the same, certainly appear to have a lot in common with Vernor Vinge's 'A Fire upon the Deep', a work that is not mentioned by Clute in his afterword. While I would never go so far as to accuse SF's greatest critic of plagiarism, I would say that Clute certainly owes more of a debt to Vinge, who is neither as culturally-central or as highly-regarded as those whom Clute does namecheck, than he admits. In addition, his 'made-minds', Artifical Intelligences, are also strongly reminiscent of Iain M. Bank's darkly witty and bizarre Culture minds. <br />Most importantly of all however, the plot and resolution, character development - such as it is possible in a universe where identity is so malleable - and emotional content, are flimsy and ramshackle affairs when stripped of the dense superstructure of description. The lack of connection to what we know of as human emotion is a common and perhaps insoluable problem in any reasonable far future setting - it seems to go with the territory - although Attanasio's Last legends of Earth is a magnificent exception. However Appleseed's lack of substantial 'story' is far less forgiveable. <br />Still, this book should be read. For all its failings as a tale, stylistically there isn't much like it in SF (or elsewhere), and in many ways it is brave: the outrageous lovechild of a menage a trois between Vernor Vinge, Iain M. Banks and the Oxford English Dictionary, it won't be easily read, but certainly not easily forgotten.	2002-04-20
US	50164230	R2XMPSMOLU9PKA	0671884271	594874910	Black Betty	Books	5	5	5	N	N	The finest of the Easy Rawlins stories?	I don't generally like crime fiction. There's a sentence to alienate most of the people reading this review! However for some writers - the great ones - the genre they write in is irrelevent. It cannot be denied that Mosley is a great writer, who has shown equal facility in tough but politically and socially literate crime writing and also in witty and wise post-modern science-fiction. <br />Black Betty is a fine demonstration of his craft. His particular skill is in weaving the world into his tales. The mystery is well-constructed and satisfyingly tangled, featuring multiple murders, corruption and racial and class divisions. However the central plot is framed both by the atmosphere of early 1960s America with the rise of the civil rights movement confronting old prejudices, and by the dense web of family and social life within the families of ordinary, mainly (but not entirely) black, working class Americans. <br />In theory Easy Rawlins' role in the investigations in which he is involved is limited to where white men fear to tread - the black community. However the networks of corruption and deceit he uncovers inevitably take him outside this world, in this case into the bizarre and emtionally-stunted world of white land-owners and their complicated relationships with their black and latino servants, as well as a corrupt and racist police force and legal system. <br />Easy is also personally involved - Elizabeth Eady AKA Black Betty - the woman whose disappearance he is hired to investigate was a teenage crush of his, a woman who inspires obsession in many, which turns out to be her tragedy. At the same time, Easy has to contend with several other difficulties: the release of his psychotic - but often useful - friend, Mouse, from prison, bristling with anger and the need to revenge himself on the man who sent him down; the ongoing silence of his eldest adopted child Jesus, who has chosen not to speak as a result of the trauma and abuse from which Easy rescued him; the suspicious collapse of the real estate businesses in which he has invested his occasional earnings; and various other ongoing personal and social difficulties. Easy Rawlins has a well described and believable, if unconventional, family and a life beyond the crimes he is occasionally employed to solve. He is a fascinating character who has grown with successive novels; full of desire and anger but compassionate, wise and often painfully self-aware.<br />I would rate Black Betty as the best of the Easy Rawlins tales. What is particularly great about it is Easy's story of personal survival and compromise in an unfair world where a black man cannot sit back and enjoy what he has without someone trying to destroy it. Easy does get to the bottom of things, but it is at immense cost to all those involved including himself, and in the case of Mouse - well, as those who know the character will be aware that there is very little in the world that will stop him doing what he has set his mind on. <br />This is ultimately a tale cut about with sadness and rage, and a mighty fine and and jolting read it is too.	2002-04-09
US	50164230	R1XXZM0QJEMHMI	038079070X	395763225	Jack Faust	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Technology is the Devil...	The story of Faust has ancient roots: the over-reaching anti-hero who offers the core of his being in return for material benefit is present in many folk tales and legends. In its best-known form it is a tragic cautionary tale of mediaeval Christianity: the sacrifice of the soul for wordly power and knowledge. This is how both Marlowe and Goethe presented the message. <br />During and after the industrial killing frenzy of the Twentieth Century it became difficult to portray evil as 'outside': Thomas Mann's Doctor Faustus is a more subtle work about art and Nazism, and the very human processes of self-annihilation that lead down the road to the the concentration camps and the gas chambers. By the end of the Twentieth Century though, science and technology had become the points of contention. Though knowledge has always been key to the Faust story, Michael Swanwick puts scientific and technical knowledge at the heart of his re-telling. <br />It begins, as with Marlowe and Goethe, in mediaeval Germany, and a fine, dirty and pungently atmospheric Germany it is too. Swanwick's descriptive style is immensely rich and seductive and quickly pulls the reader into a world before computers, before cars, before factories, before steam, before states, before industrial warfare. Faust is desparing. He, alone of all scholars, has seen through the hypocrisy of contemporary scholarship, and he despises every bit of it. Burning his books to the dismay of his servant, Wagner, he is confronted with Mephistopheles, not a demon or a devil in the traditional sense, but a collective entity from another dimension, immensely knowledgeable (beyond Faust's wildest dreams), but also afraid of what humanity could become and unable on their own to do anything about it. Instead they intend to destroy the world through scientific knowledge. Even the name, Mephistopheles, is presented to Faust as a complex equation about quantum energy, the details of which he cannot understand, but the import - oh, is it not everything that he wants? The deal then is simple: Faust will have total knowledge, but in return, this being a thoroughly millenial retelling, that knowledge will destroy not just Faust but all humanity, irrevocably and forever. The cruelty then is not so much with Mephistopheles but with Faust from the beginning: he always knows that his knowledge will destroy and kill, and even understanding that there will be no divine salvation - one of Mephistopheles' first revelations is that there is no God - he still fools himself into believing that he can control the forces which he is about to unleash. This self-deception is only confirmed for him by the fact that he wins the heart of the one woman whom Mephistopheles tells him he cannot have: Margaret, daughter of a wealthy merchant.<br />At first Faust tries to spread elements of his new knowledge in pure scientific form, for free, throughout Europe, but he finds only rejection and scorn. Finding that there is no interest in 'pure science', and with the wealth of Margaret's family behind him, Faust turns to applied science: engineering and the production of new (mainly military) technologies, and starts to produce rapid changes. Mediaeval Europe industrialises at frightening speed. But the technologies are soon beyond Faust's control, and in combination with the most base human desires for power and conquest they take on a destructive logic of their own. <br />As in earlier tellings: the end is inevitable and tragic in the true sense of the word. Faust can see it approaching: he is destroyed as a human being and left bitter, loveless and empty long before the conclusion - his deal has left him as nothing in the face of the destructive power produced by his machines. He is left to use his knowledge to pursue petty projects of personal vendetta and to further destroy the hopes of the most hopeless. The holocaust comes earlier and more fiercely than in our own history.<br />The Faust story is a bleak one, andSwanwick's variation is perhaps the bleakest and most nihilistic yet, particularly because it is unclear if there is any lesson of possibility of redemption (spiritual or material). There are hints that love in its purest human form might have saved Faust if he had not abandonned it, but this is not explored. Is Swanwick suggesting that there is no future for humanity in pursuing a technology-driven society? Is he effectively casting technology as the new devil? I don't know. The cumultive effect of this book is powerful, disturbing and pessimistic especially with the curt and cold ending.	2002-03-16
US	50164230	R3UTO615ZFVLNC	0571190049	613042003	Moscow Stations	Books	5	15	15	N	N	The humour and tragedy of life seen through a bottle	Moscow Stations is on of the most fascinating literary works of late Soviet literature. Sub-titled 'a poem', this novella is indeed poetic and dense, mixing autobiography, fantasy and hallucination in the tragic life of the narrator, a homeless and occasionally-employed alchoholic, who wanders the Moscow streets and subway system forever in search of the next drink, and haunted by the dream of a beautiful woman he has apparently promised to meet at one particular station which he never seems to be able to find.<br />Woven around this hopeless quest, this slim volume contains so much: from alchohol-addled discussions of philiosophy on half-empty subway carriages rattling on throught the impenetrable Moscow darness, to pin-sharp satire at the absurdity of totalitarian bureaucracy; from passages of the most heart-rending tenderness, particularly in the description of a brief visit to the narrator's sick son, to the most laugh-out-loud humour.<br />The writing gathers momentum and increases in insane intensity as the inevitable tragic demise of the narrator approaches, stabbed in the neck by unknown assailants in an echo of the pointless death of Josef K in Kafka's 'The Trial', and in a bizarre prefiguration of Erofeev's own death of throat cancer. The author's life was as ribald, riotous and ultimately tragic as his character in this book - the stories of cocktails made from vodka, meths and pesticides; the loss of family, the lazy drunken work-crew antics - these are all apparently drawn from his own mazey, mashed-up existance.<br />The only slightly disappointing thing about the English edition of Moscow Stations is some slightly stilted and over-literal translation in the early chapters. However this problem soon disappears as the fierce vital spirit of Erofeev's tale triumphs over any such imposed shortcomings. Some have pointed out the obvious echoes of Gogol (which Erofeev himself acknowledges through his narrator), but the portrayal of absurdity, madness and decay has perhaps more in common with the writers of early C2Oth Prague, such as Kafka (already mentioned) and particularly Gustav Meyrinck.<br />I found this remarkable little book in the bargain bin of a local bookshop, and having read it straight through in utter amazement several times, I am astounded to have found such a fabulous piece of work so cheaply. It seems almost an insult to the memory of Erofeev that this book is so undervalued, though I am sure he, above all people, would see the bitter humour in such a situation: after all - the bottom of the pile under all the dross of the feeblest erotica and thrillers - where else would he expect to be remembered?	2002-03-01
US	50164230	R12YVSINTR2MJB	0312861478	568503606	Apostrophes & Apocalypses: The First Collection From One of the Most Acclaimed SF Writers of the Decade	Books	4	1	1	N	N	An honest author exposing his flaws?	I have had very mixed feelings about Barnes' novel-length work. Descriptions of Barnes as the next Heinlein never sold his books to me as I stopped deifying the 'Dean of Science Fiction' long ago; indeed, in my view, Barnes' flaws often replicated Heinlein's stylistic and imaginative shortcomings. He also seemed to have a rather boring way of constructing his worlds whether they were supposed to be shockingly foregrounded or merely backcloth. <br />This collection managed to both surprise me and confirm some of my previous impressions. I found the author's commentaries on his stories engaging and enlightening, though I did not always agree with his opinions of his own work! For example, 'Under the Covenant Stars', a tale set in a near future USA dominated by religous dogma and fear of the outside, which Barnes describes as one of his most (thankfully) dated, I found to be still timely and disturbing. Perhaps more recent events have reawakened tendencies Barnes thought long gone. I also liked the one with the gay wolf sex! Barnes seems to encourage the reader to find this shocking - actually it isn't at all unless you have problems with the normal range of human sexuality - and is in fact quite an intriguing tale that could be read as a challenge to human speciesism, a tale of moral control, or a satire on the animal rights lobby depending on you mood and persuasions. There are a few really enjoyable and genuinely challenging stories in this collection: the first story, 'Gentleman Pervent, Out on a Spree' is strong stuff with some disturbing but worthwhile points about gender relations, although it outstays its welcome and drifts off course a little.<br />However there are some really bad stories too - another lengthy piece which worked hard at inverting mainstream fantasy conventions of good elves and bad goblins went on so long and aimlessly that I began to think that some publisher's trick had plunged me into the middle of another interminable fantasy trilogy. Many other tales are equally pointless or flawed: some, such as 'Stochasm, 'are just too clever-clever , others aren't as funny as they the author believes, particularly one abysmally unamusing alt-history satire about Christopher Columbus. <br />Interspersed with the stories are non-fiction pieces. These I found very interesting because they purport at least to be what Barnes really thinks about writing, about Science Fiction, and about world-creation. I say 'purport', because I was left unsure whether Barnes really believes what he writes and whether the pieces are merely self-justification. One example is an essay on style in SF, in which Barnes exalts good honest craft in writing over bombastic stylistic exhuberance. Given that Barnes' own style is workmanlike at best and dull at worst, this could be seen merely as an attempt to give a critical gloss to an inability to write in anything more than flat prose. Likewise his essay on how to construct a world: mathematically-correct maybe, but worlds are made of more than figures - where's the cultural content, where's the poetry? Whilst I appreciate his critique of the old hyperbolic SF description piling wonder upon ever more wondrous wonder, and whilst I can see the rationale in well-constructed coherent worlds, I would have given up reading SF years ago if everyone wrote like Barnes. Simple writing about workable futures may do for teenagers - that was when I DID like Heinlein! - but as you get older you need more subtlety, more strangeness, and, more style. Give me something stylish - anything from Attanasio at his headlong flawed but lush best, or Gibson at his most ironic and Chanderesque - over Barnes' mechanical writing any day. <br />After my criticism, you might be surprised to find me awarding this collection 4 stars. Well, the reason is that too many author's are selctive about what they present to the public. Collections often contain only the author's selction of their most uncontentious and well-liked pieces. In contrast Barnes has exposed himself completely: everything is on display, much of it unseen before. And, whether you like him or not, whether you believe him or not, like a middle-aged streaker at the Olympic Games, John Barnes has got to be admired for his honesty and daring in 'letting it all hang out' in this way.	2002-03-01
US	50164230	RANSFQHJCQK8I	0679767398	231777935	South of the Border, West of the Sun: A Novel	Books	4	5	7	N	N	Convincing portrayal of male self-justification.	One thing is certain - Murakami is a master of the written word, and this translation more than does his elegant, sparse yet densely image-filled style justice. However I have yet to be convinced of his powers as a storyteller. <br />This book is full of subtle and tightly-wrought emotions: longing and nostalgia, love and disappointment. The central character, Hajime, is a self-justifying and selfish middle-aged man portrayed in a very honest fashion. He is relatively successful and wealthy with a lovely wife, yet he still longs for the mysterious love of his childhood, the beautiful Shimamoto. Of course, she duly appears one day at the bar of one of his fashionable jazz clubs, causing Hajime all sorts of mixed feelings. What is more, during the years they have been apart she has gone through a whole set of mysterious events of her own that are never explained, and which complicate the renewed realtionship further. To add to this the novella is haunted by the spectre of Hajime's ultimately disastrous teenage relationship with another girl, Izumi, who somehow becomes the monstrous living embodiment of all the bitterness and bad feeling of failed love affairs.<br />Many reviewers seem to have seen this book as a beatifully-painted tale of love lost. It would seem difficult to say this without being at least a little as self-absorbed as Hajime. This is a tale told through him, through his very lop-sided view of his own past, through his memories coloured by retrospective slef-justification. His complete lack of understanding of Izumi, his wife, and indeed ultimately Shimamoto too, show a coldness towards women that he disguises as 'love'. So this is a book about love, but only in as much as it is a tale of the lies and stories we weave around our lives that we call love. There is very little real love here. <br />This short work is a masterful and complex window into the subtle interplays of our own narratives of ourselves and our lives. However, perhaps because the central character is utimately a fairly empty person, and there is no real moral resolution, this has an effect on the enjoyment of the novella as story, whether one admires it as technically and emotionally-accomplished writing. <br />Perhaps all great writers do this to you!	2002-02-08
US	50164230	RUVP81FNNWSMX	0446529540	552279058	Futureland	Books	4	20	20	N	N	An Important, if Flawed, Work	Having though 'Blue Light' one of the most fantastic new SF novels of recent years, and having been amazed at its poor reception from Mosley fans, I was delighted and surprised to see him back with another work of SF, and one which deals with many of the same themes as his previous genre work, but in markedly different ways. <br />The worst thing about Futureland is its title - I suspect an editor wary of making the book too innaccesible to non-SF readers (or perhaps even Mosley himself worrying about such problems), but whoever made the choice, it does not excactly sparkle with originality or invite wonder in anyone approaching the book. It deserved better.<br />The book itself is composed of nine linked stories set in a world where corporations have divided up the planet, and people are forced to live according to strict socio-economic and geographic constraints, even to the extent that New York, for example, is divided into three horizontal layers, where the poorest never see the sunlight. America remains the dominant power but it is forced to export many of its social problems: the growing prison population is now housed on privately-run islands where the drug-controlled prison population is used as slave labour. And of course, those who bear the brunt of this crusshingly divided world order are black. Race and gender politics are everywhere in this book, from the new opportunities generated by a world champion boxer who is a black woman (clearly drawn as a female Muhammed Ali) who can beat the best male fighters, to the onward march of the International Socialists, a depressingly realistic neo-Nazi movement. The latter are dismissed by various characters in the book as unimportant, marginal or simply 'conservative' (a justification used by a member), however they gradually assume a central importance as the trajectories woven in the various separate tales are threaded together towards the final stories. As in Blue Light, the tone of the conclusion is downbeat,the final story almost an epigraph, despite the overt hope of renewal. <br />As an SF setting, and even as a collection of short stories, Futureland might not stand up to close examination were it not for three factors. The first is Mosley's righteously angry politics (mentioned above), the second is his obvious love for the genre, and his knowledge of its past. Another reviewer compared Futureland very unfavourably to the work of William Gibson, as cyberpunk fiction. However I feel this misses the point. Gibson also understands the context in which SF is written, witness his fabulous early story, The Gernsback Continuum, which mixes Twilight Zone style plotting and the 'airships and aryans-in-togas' imagery from the 1930s pulp magazines, yet which makes a very contemporary point about memory and its relationship to our visions of the future. Mosley also mixes all sorts of iconic SF images into his work: there are the info-monks, with their blue cloaks and their brains made visible by plastic domes, there is a superintelligent megalomaniac attempting to rebuild Atlantis and colonise Mars, and an equally gifted child prodigy who finds ways of speaking to God through radio noise. There are also SF images from the New Wave period: a world-weary 'electronic private eye', a man suddently startled to find his dull existence turned downside-up by a fortune he struggles to understand, a prisoner who can liberate himself and others only through his own death and so on. The final factor is Mosley's ironic sensibility. These iconic SF devices are skillfully strung together with (also like Gibson) a delightful and sometimes disturbing use of irony: for example, Vietnam which has struggled to liberate itlsef from the French and then the Americans, and then (some might argue) from its own form of communism, has succeeded, only to find itself divided up and owned by trans-national corporations. <br />Futureland doesn't succeed entirely, and this is largely dues to the variable quality of the stories. Some, like the opener Whispers in the Dark; the prison drama, Angel's Island; the future private detective tale, The Electric Eye; and the multi-layered both hopeful and disturbing closer, The Nig in Me; are superb - others read more like fillers. Perhaps this is simply personal preference. The only work I can think of that compares to Futureland is John Brunner's massive New Wave dystopia, Stand on Zanzibar, another ambitious brilliant-but-flawed work packed with irony, from an equally angry and socially-aware author. <br />Two messages, then: <BR>To Walter Mosley - I can only beg you to ignore the occasional detractors and keep writing science fiction alongside the brilliant crime writing. <BR>To everyone else - read this book, it's important.	2002-01-11
US	50164230	R22KKUNLPUZJ53	0446610623	517423369	Futures: Four Novellas	Books	4	11	11	N	N	Worth the price for Ian Macdonald alone.	I bought this collection for one reason and one reason only: it contained another slice of Ian McDonald's world-turned-upside-down 'Chaga; sequence. As it turned out this was by far the best piece in the book, but more of that later. <br />I haver never been convinced by Pater Hamilton, much as I want to like a British author who can do cyberpunk and do space opera with the best of the yanks. However his piece in this collection, 'Watching Trees Grow' changed my opinion of him. It is an alternative-history crime novella based on the premise that descendants of the Romans still rule Britian through a set of East India Company-style families who combine economic control with a monopolies over various areas of scientific progress. It is a neat idea, and takes the premise further than many other alternative histories by throwing the story further and further into the future, as an old rivalry becomes an obsession that almost transcends time. <br />I enjoyed it despite the episodic feel - perhaps a novel would have been more appropriate - but its 'Britishness' seemed slightly musty and old-fashionned, and redolent of dreams of Empire, in stark contrast to McDonald, or more overtly hip authors like Jeff Noon or Justina Robson. Maybe that was the point, and if so it was well made: science fiction is much the poorer if it doesn't teach you something about the society in which you live. <br />As for Stephen Baxter's 'Reality Dust': well, he does try, and he does keep churning them out, but this is so boring and so mainstream and so traditional. It is all done very competantly, but it is basically the kind of SF I enjoyed when I was a teenager, it isn't challenging in any way.<br />I was a little disappointed with Paul McAuley's novella, 'Making History', especially as he is one of my favourite writers. This was partly because at the heart of it was a very tedious old argument about the nature of history (great men versus social processes) which tended to intrude on the quiteinteresting story of the processs of war, defeat, reconciliation and the way history is written. Perhaps this was set up as part of the character of the historian to demonstrate his own flaws, but it didn't really convince. This is certainly not one of his best stories. <br />As I said at the start, I bought this collection for Ian McDonald's 'Tendeleo's Story'. I was certainly not disappointed by this one. McDonald is one of the few writers in the genre today who can combine real politics and a strongly compassionate and empathetic grasp of human nature. He is also a superb writer, able to portray setting and character in a vivid, dynamic and sensual way. <br />This novella, as the title suggests is the story of Kenyan girl, Tendeleo, the arrival of a extraterrestrial nanotech lifeform, the Chaga, that begins to transform Africa, and as a result the balance of global power. Initally for Tendeleo, however, this means growing up and simply trying to survive in the ferment that follows, which in her case means geting more and more deeply involved in street gangs smuggling Chaga material out of Africa. Capture and exile is never far away and whe it comes she loses here family in tragic and guilt-inducing circumstances. She winds up in cold, rainy Manchester, England, where she meets the other central character and narrative voice of the story, Sean, a black Irishman, who is also an exile in various ways, and a tentative love affair begins. Of course, inevitably Tendeleo  has to return to Africa, where the Chaga has begun to revolutionise everyday life and the place of Africa in the world.<br />'Tendeleo's Story' is worth the price of this collection alone. It is an almost perfect example of how to write a novella that with none of the structural problems of the others in the book. The narrative is perfectly paced, with a deft handling of both action and emotion and no forced-ness or pretension. It is truly worthwhile and heartbreakingly real story that exist within anutterly fantastic and transforming world, yet a world which says so much about our own. A true gem of a story, from one of the best and most underrated writers around.	2001-12-20
US	50164230	R43ZBO2LH9ENF	0553576429	458251962	A Good Old-Fashioned Future	Books	3	1	3	N	N	An uneven collection	This uneven collection points up a lot of what was going wrong for Bruce Sterling in the 1990s: an overconfidence in his own ability to have his finger on the pulse and sometimes seemingly superficial understanding of other cultures replacing in-depth research.<br />This is at its worst in stories like 'The Littlest Jackal', set largely in the Aland Islands between Finland and Sweden - I've been there, and he just seems to use the islands as an exotic locale without any real understanding of the culture or geography. This story also features the return of Leggy Starlitz, the shady gun-for-hire of several stories in Globalhead, Sterling's previous and equally uneven collection. Unfortunately where in those stories he was amusing, here he has out-stayed his welcome and become tedious. I know these stories are an ironic riff on the old cyberpunk assassin theme and the superficiality is probably intended, but still - I don't think it works. <br />Also lightweight is Sacred Cow, which has a great concept (Bollywood film-makers come to Britain to take advantage of cheap labour in a country devastated by mad cow disease), but which largely fails to deliver more than a few cheap laughs. The title character of Deep Eddy (who gets a mention in a couple of other tales) is another of those irritating know-it-alls that Sterlings seems to specialise in at present. Will the geeks inherit the earth? Perhaps he's right, but it doesn't make for interesting characterisation here. Neil Stephenson does this a lot more effectively. <br />However, there are some really good stories in this collection.<br />I've lived in Japan, the setting for Maneki Neko, which in this context appears to suffer from the same faults as the lesser stories in demonstrating no more than a passing grasp of the culture in which it is set. However, having thought about this more, I realised that when I first read this story when it was published in F&amp;SF's 'best of' collection, I really enjoyed its subtletiesand humour (like many in that fine collection), and indeed its Japaneseness. Perhaps this time I reread it via Leggy Starlitz instead! <br />The long Bicycle Repairman and Taklamakan, set in the same world as Deep Eddy, are also better, the former a fairly gritty urban tale in a set amongst techie squatters, the latter a effectively dusty and atmospheric tale of some of the same foreign techs and spaceships in central Asia. I also enjoyed the wobbly and wonky Big Jelly which is at least partly down to lunatic collaborator Rudy Rucker's all-round obsession with jellyfish!<br />Sterling started to return to form with the novel, Holy Fire, but for fans of short fiction I suggest going back to his first satisfyingly varied collection, Crystal Express, which featured both early cyberpunk and more tradtional space-and-aliens sci-fi done equally well. <br />Overall this collection suggests that Sterling isn't putting as much effort into his short fiction as he used to, but there are very few writers who start off writing short stories who continue to do them as well or as often as their careers progress. While there are some really worthwhile pieces in here, my reading of them at least was unfortunately coloured by the not so great ones.	2001-12-02
US	50164230	R2HH82R7Z3243H	076530080X	219188246	The Secret of Life	Books	4	9	10	N	N	More complex that you might think...	I am amazed at the short memory of many professional reviewers. Many seem to think that this is a major change of direction for McAuley, a deliberate turn to the more commercial. In fact it is a return to previous endeavours, and the hard political / bioscience near future timeline he created in the wonderful and hallucinatory 'Fairyland'. Mind you, you have to read this book carefully to get that point - I suspect that many 'pros' just don't bother.<br />So what's the deal? Well, it isn't really about life on Mars. That's just the background for what is effectively a debate about science and society, and quite a complex debate at that. Despite the fact that there are 'daring hero(ines)' and 'big villains' in the tradition of sci-fi political thrillers (think Bruce Sterling's Islands in the Net as an near ancestor here), McAuley is actually more interested in the inbetweens and the contradictions. His heroine Mariella is a feminist scientist opposed to the corporatisation of research and the macho culture that promotes reductionism above holism. McAuley understands the range of green, environmental and left responses and even sympathises with parts of them - his portayal of the emerging diversity of post-environmentalist culture is remarkable compared with some of the more gung-ho 'ain't science grand' school of sci-fi writers. As a result he is actually far more effective at getting across his argument than some (see Greg Egan's Teranesia for a failed attempt). The various radical groups in this book understand that life should be enjoyable, sensual, a pleasure - however they don't always appreciate what could make that a possibility for everyone. McAuley is saying that that science, in the form of research to solve real social problems, is not the enemy of society but is an essential part of enabling life to be this good for all. <br />But don't let me make you think that this is a worthy lecture. McAuley is an excellent writer with an unintrusive style that movesthe story along. The opening sequence would grace any top thriller movie. The scenes in space and on Mars are effectively tense and claustrophic, just as those in the deserts of Arizona are expanisive and full of post-millenial possibility. In terms of character, Mariella is quirky and far from the stereoypes of either sci-fi women or scientists, and other important characters are also complex and varied enough in their emotional and political baggage to be believable. The resolution is satisfying, uplifting and positive. <br />The Secret of Life works very well in many different ways. If you like your scienctific optimism spliced with strands of feminism, environmentalism and real-world politics, this will be just your cup of tea. <BR>What more could you want? <BR>(Just another 'Fairyland', please!)	2001-11-21
US	50164230	R47RWCF80TN8W	0380014033	772010642	Lord of Light	Books	5	40	41	N	N	Extraordinary	Occasionally a science-fiction book is written that reminds everyone why the genre is so important. A book so extraordinary, so inventive, so full of wit, imagination and intriguing possibility that it just shines out of every page.<br />Lord of Light is such a book.<br />Here in the UK, it has recently been one of the first books to be re-released in the 'SF Masterworks' series. Not only does it fully derve this title, it stands head and shoulders above most of the other titles on this list and indeed all of Zelazny's extensive back-catalogue. <br />Put as simply as possible, the story is one of the way in which ideological factions diverge and conflict over the human colonisation of a distant planet,how over a long time the differences within the human society - and between humans and the indigenous inhabitants - become fossilised and reconstructed into a parody or recreation of Hindu myths, and finally how this decadent parody is challenged from within by one of the original colonists - Mahasamatman, or Sam, the Lord of Light - who takes on the form of the Buddha.  <br />Around this central tale, Zelazny manages to weave so many themes. It is a sensitive and compassionate re-imagining of Hindu mytholology, yet aware of the shortcomings and the challenge posed to traditional Hinduism by Buddhist teachings. It is a tale of technologically-facilitated decadence and moral decline, of the way in which technical abilities can become more important than the purposes for which they were developed. It is a fable about how inequality and class division emerge, are structured, fossilized and challenged. It is story of memory and forgetting, of how history can be constantly rewritten -consciously and unconsciously - by the powerful, and lost to the weak. It is a classic tragedy, the oldest story of all: hubris, nemesis and catharsis. <br />Zelazny not only manages all these themes with seemingly effortless structural ability, but also produces lush and stylish prose entirelyappropriate to the parodic Hindu world, which is a joy to read. <br />Everyone should read this whether you think you like sci-fi or not. Lord of Light is a unique and extraordinary creation and I don't think I am exaggerating in describing it as one of the greatest and most original acheivements in Twentieth Century literature.	2001-11-21
US	50164230	R3GDFEMZEBPECG	1568581866	246269566	The Jaguar Hunter	Books	5	6	7	N	N	A fabulous grab-bag of stories	The Jaguar Hunter is still the best introduction to the frustratingly inconsistent work of Lucius Shephard. Shephard is at his best in short stories and some of those in this collection show a real mastery of the form, telling often quite simple moral tales in settings packed dense with strange underpinning imagery and meaning. <br />The collection divides into several different overlapping types: traveller's tales, New England horror, Latin American magic realism, those dealing with the ongoing shadow cast by Nazism, fantasy etc. It is really a matter of taste which you prefer: my own favourites are the title story, which tingles with atmosphere and magical possibility; the two treatments of the legacy of the Third Reich - the terrifying 'Mengele', and the bizarre, menacing 'A Spanish Lesson'; and the magnificent 'R&amp;R'. I like the New England-set tales less, but even they far outdo Stephen King.<br />Shephard's writing has never been better than is these early stories (and also in the underrated novel 'Life During Wartime'); lush but never bloated and often ironic but always moral. I just wish he would find his form again and stop writing yet more vampire novels!	2001-09-10
US	50164230	R2FFRMMXFWQLTG	186207206X	782756745	White Chappell, Scarlet Tracings	Books	5	21	22	N	N	Dirty and dangerous	Iain Sinclair knows the mythical paths of London like no-one else. In poetic often painfully intense prose, he conjures up the half-dead spirits that stalk the streets of this seedy town. The landscape is dominated by dodgy second-hand book dealers skulking in the shadows obsessed by the Ripper murders, and by the vicious presence of Jack himself, the embodiement of powerful evil forces embedded in the fabric of the city. If you only ever read one novel about Jack the Ripper, or never wanted to read one, White Chappell, Scarlet Tracings is a must. A warning though: it is not for the faint-hearted.	2001-08-31
US	50164230	R2V3DVGJIQS83N	0385720114	977875409	The Map of Love: A Novel	Books	4	11	13	N	N	Love, politics and religion	A fascinating multi-layered novel that cuts between present-day and turn of the Twentieth Century Egypt, The Map of Love is immaculately written, has memorable characters, and mixes love, politics and religion in a disciplined but expansive mixture. One is left with a strong sense of the injustices that have been and continue to be inflicted on one of the oldest and most beautiful civilisations, yet despite everything how Egypt survives through it all, while its neighbours, in particular Palestine, are sacrificed to political expediency. Yet this is also a very personal novel about the feelings and fortunes of women. I have rarely read better, more vivid and more passionate descriptions of the experience of love - an emotion that seems all too often relegated to popular romances while being dismissed entirely by the cynical post-modern literati. The portrayal of intimate feelings are aided by writing that is both clear and sensuous. So why not five stars? Well, The Map of Love is far superior to many books that I could give the highest of these silly ratings too - it is just that the setting and subjects seem to be pandering a little too much to the western taste for eastern exoticism, the Merchant-Ivory tendency for period romances amongst the upper classes, and also, incidentally, with half an eye on a film deal. There is certainly some self-awareness of the pitfalls of this approach shown in the text, but I feel that the author is capable of far more complex and honest writing than this, despite the vivid style, political awareness and emotional understanding of this book.	2001-08-22
US	50164230	R1DHTEAVKI144Y	0679775439	730850906	The Wind-Up Bird Chronicle: A Novel	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Wonderful writing - unfortunately the story disappears	The opening chapters of this book brought the same feeling to me as the original film of Point Blank. Why? Well, despite their superficial differences both works exist in that world of listless summers, dry concrete, abandoned houses and dusty derelict gardens, and journey through the heart of the modern city (Tokyo/Los Angeles), yet a city that seems strangely empty. Echoes of J.G. Ballard here too. Toru Okada, the novel's hero, an aimless happily unemployed everyman, has little in common with Lee Marvin's relentless single-track hitman however. Only wanting to drift, cook pasta and love his wife, the collapse of all these simple domestic pleasures, prefigured by the loss of their cat, pitches him into a wierd underworld of ill-fated war heroes, psychic healers dressed in 60s fashions, a corrupt politician who happens to be his hated brother-in-law, a strange cynical teenage girl (a kind of anti-Lolita) and more. These characters inhabit an impossible dreamspace, swirling under the surface of the sluggish Tokyo summer heat. Okada's happy mundane world becomes filled with threat and dangers glimpsed out of the corner of an eye, but is also opened up to directions that had never before seemed possible, as this space begins to infiltrate and merge with his own reality. <br />The Wind-up Bird Chronicle features bizarre and memorable characters and, so far as can be determined in translation, a dense realist descriptive style. Its tales of love misplaced and hopeless coincidence echo those of the great Italian writer Italo Calvino, and the sprawling muinutely detailed journeys of George Perec. In his treatment of the fear and uncertainty underneath the superficial order of Japanese society, and an acknowledgement of the long shadow cast by Japanese militarism in the first half of the Twentieth Century, Murakami has much in common with Kobo Abe. He has clearly influenced younder writers like Banana Yoshimoto in his obsessions with new age eccentriciy. As also mentioned,there are hints of Ballard and Nabokov too. <br />This is all very well, and all very brilliant, until about two thirds of the way through when a major change in the feel of the book occurs and Murakami appears to lose control of the plot (such as it is) and the book ceases to be deep and intriguing and starts to be aimless and baffling. If only Murakami had managed to sustain the book to the end this would have been a masterpiece. As it is, it is still well worth reading, and an exceptional display of imaginative and magical writing.	2001-08-22
US	50164230	R1NAPZFNOAW8G3	0380792923	846552587	Signal to Noise	Books	3	11	14	N	N	Fun, but don't expect too much more...	Signal to Noise is an enjoyable read but certainly not the brilliant new riff on post-cyberpunk for which I was hoping. <br />It has several good points: firstly, the excellent idea and execution of the virtual environments or 'bubbles', in which most of the characters work, and often live and interact to a high degree. I particularly liked the way in which, linked directly people's brains, they worked by visual metaphor; and Nylund also convincingly conveyed the pain and panic of the characters when they were forced into the real world. Secondly, I liked the way in which the alien race were discoved through complex cryptographic analysis of seemingly random noise patterns - is cryptography the new nanotech (which was the new cyberspace) in sci-fi? Thirdly, the amoral aliens, who of course are only seen as virtual representations, which bypassses the problem of describing alien beings - no unbelievable human-sized insectoids here. Finally, the end of the world was good - I enjoy a good apocalypse, but perhaps I am just too misanthropic.<br />On the downside, Nylund's characterisation was dreadful. Using stock figures works in the hands of someone like William Gibson because his novels have a strong element of pastiche and irony (not that some people notice!), however here they are just irritating cardboard cut-outs, in particular the Chinese spy, Panda - I think the name says more than I could about cultural stereotyping! Nylund seems to be doing his best to encourage the view that hackers don't know anything about women - his female characters make Neil Stephenson's women look like well-rounded individuals. Secondly - sometimes the descriptions of the mathematics and cryptography involved were too didactic; Stephenson and Greg Egan both do it far better. Finally, I found the underlying politics slightly one-sided: despite having resulted in the destruction of the world, rampant individualism and free trade seems to be the only way that the characters can envisage saving humanity. Perhaps this is an satirical commnetary by Nylund but, given the thoroughly irony-free content of the rest of the book, I doubt it. <br />I will read the sequel, simply because the story is moderately involving and fun, but I will not hold out hopes of it being a great work of science fiction this time.	2001-08-02
US	50164230	R2ZFUV5B7Y9ZBH	0312868014	981105427	Marrow	Books	2	4	6	N	N	A Big Dumb Object (the book, that is)...	The epic eon-spanning space opera is a form that has returned with a vengence in recent years, and with this has come the related resurgence of the massive and mysterious alien vessel, or Big Dumb Project (BDO), to use the jargon. There is so much potential in the idea of the BDO: it hints at vast mysteries waiting to be uncovered, of universe-scale conspiracies, of stories as old as the cosmos. <br />The idea is immensely tempting to the sci-fi writer, but too many attempt this epic-scale and fail. Casualties include, diappointingly, one of my favorite young SF authors, Alison Sinclair with 'Cavalcade' (which I am not sure even received a release in the USA). On the other hand the successes can be the most exciting sci-fi novels around: Greg Egan's Diaspora, the superb combination of ground-level earthly politics and BDO exploration in Ian MacDonaald's Kirinya (the sequel to Evolution's Shore / Chaga - it probably has a different title in the USA), Iain M. Banks's skillful deconstruction of the genre in Excession, and Attanasio's Last Legends of Earth, in which the whole solar system in which it is set is effectively a BDO, part of a plan beyond humanity's comprehension. <br />Marrow, unfortunately, is yet another novel that attempts to be mind-blowing, epic and sweeping but somehow ends up deflated, flat and claustrophic. Reed never manages to convey the immensity of the place, nor the diversity and strangeness of the multitude of species on board. It is a bit like the old Star Trek series where the makers tried to convince us that a tiny model hanging on a piece of string was a sophisticated and powerful space craft. There are some hints at the fertile imagination and style Reed demonstrates in his short stories: I liked the Remoras, a culture that had chosen to adapt themselves to living on the outer surface of the vessel; and there are patches of genuinely excellent writing. But, the plot is simple and uninvolving, the characters are dull, and the great secretof the vessel turns out to be not that exciting. This latter observation reflects particular disappointment on my part, because the plot could have been worked so much better: the idea itself was not bad, but somehow the execution of the story made the resolution seem simply uninspiring. <br />Overall: a failure from a writer from whom I would have expected better.	2001-08-02
US	50164230	R2NOG3S5GO6LOH	0380788624	555229230	Cryptonomicon	Books	4	19	23	N	N	Almost a 'Great Novel'	I have a confession to make. I never liked Snow Crash. I thought it was poorly written at times and the author too obsessed with his own cleverness.<br />But people grow and change especially, one hopes, writers. The Diamond Age was wildly inventive and enjoyable but flawed. Crytonomicon is another massive step forward for Stephenson, but it still has its irritating aspects. <br />A novel of this sort - multiple plot lines, multiple times and places, linking real and fictional characters through time and space - is very difficult to handle effectively, to organise so that it all hangs together. It is a real tribute to Stephenson's growing skill that Cryptonomicon does manage this task. His writing can be superb. He has mastered an ironic, faux-pulp style that mixed with the cryptography and various language-styles of the characters, makes for both entertaining and challenging reading. <br />Some of Crytonomicon's characters are memorable and sensitively-handled, both those invented, like Randy, Lawrence Waterhouse and Bobby Shaftoe, and real, particularly his portrayal of Alan Turing, revealed properly as eccentric, brilliant and thoroughly queer. He also manages the very rare feat of using characters as representatives, as symbolic figures, and also as real and sympathetic people.<br />However...<br />Stephenson seems to be willfuly irritating in some regards. He sometimes appears to find it hard to differentiate between an in-joke or very personal humour and things that a wider audience will find amusing, and can sometimes appear overly impressed with his own wit and wisdom. Sometimes he lays on the farcical and eccentric aspects of particular situations too thick: the overly bizarre Scottish island communities featured on which Lawrence and Unit 2702 are imposed, is a case in point. Stephenson is clearly not a very good editor of his own work - very few authors are - he badly needs a sympathetic editor. <br />He also has a real problem writing believable female characters. This is a book about men and about very male communities (soldiers, scientists, computer hackers etc.) - but even when female characters do appear they do so as symbols or as one-dimensional people. Even Amy Shaftoe is there in the end purely so that the Geek can get the Girl. <br />Overall, Crytonomicon is a valiant but failed attempt to write a truly great novel. Personally, I have no doubt that Stephenson can do it. He's getting closer with every book. But, he needs to get a bit of outside editing help, stop letting his own belief in his undoubted cleverness get in the way of his writing, and learn a bit more about women! You should certainly read it, but also expect better in the future from this talented author.	2001-07-20
US	50164230	R1Z3TNE1SIMGB0	0553576305	727642571	Vast	Books	3	2	10	N	N	Sorry, but...	I'm going to do something that I hate other people doing and that is to write a review of a book I have not finished. Not being able to finish a book makes you feel like you haven't been able to perform sexually - this has never happened to me before, honest! You almost feel like it MUST be your fault. So I sat back, tried again, but I couldn't do it. <br />I normally love novels that deal with massive cosmic concepts, with post-humanity, and with enormous scales of time and space. It was the title that got me: 'Vast' suggested all of these things, it tantalised and teased me in all the right ways. A title like that and I'm anyone's. <br />But unfortunately I was disappointed. The characters were wooden and uninvolving, the feel of the plot was dreary and the ideas were just boring. I just could not make it to the end. <br />&quot;I'm sorry.&quot;  <br />&quot;It's not you fault, it happens to everyone.&quot;<br />&quot;But it's never happened to me before.&quot;<br />&quot;We'll try again later.&quot;<br />And maybe we will - if it works out, I can rewrite this review, and my shame will be over. But maybe Vast and I just aren't compatible.<br />*I'll try not to rate Vast if Amazon will let me - rating would not be fair... but Amazon won't let me get away with it - I guess an undecided 3 stars would be as reasonable as I can be.	2001-07-19
US	50164230	R1Z1HB058BWCJQ	0061059803	70195658	Teranesia	Books	2	3	4	N	N	When he's good, he's very, very good, but when he's bad...	Whereas Greg Egan can outshine any writer when he lets his imagination flow, he can be absolutely terrible when he tries to restrict himself to more mainstream sci-fi.  <br />Fundamentally, what makes Teranesia so bad in comparison to, say, Diaspora or Permutation City is that it is so didactic. There is a message of science/rationalism = good, religion/superstition = bad, that is so unsubtly broadcast at you from every page that it becomes unbearable even if you, like me, have great sympathy with this position. Oh, and to make sure that this isn't seen as too western or neo-imperialist, Egan makes the central character firmly 'other' - both Indian and gay. There's absolutely nothing wrong with having characters other than traditional white male heroes, indeed just about all of my favourite books are based around 'other' types of protagonist; it is just that in Terranesia it is just a blatant and cynical device to further 'the message'. <br />What's more, Egan's writing is not up to scratch in this book, and the plot is recycled Ballard. My partner in fact thought Teranesia was so badly written that she is now refusing to read any more of his books despite my assurances that he can be brilliant. <br />The combination of the patchy writing and preachy tone end up having the effect of subverting the core ideas. I am a very politically-engaged person, however I firmly believe that serious political messages should never overwhelm the beauty of great writing, an engaging story and sympathetic characterisation; indeed these qualities allow a message to be conveyed in a more subtle, persuasive and emotionally-satisfying way. Diaspora helped me recover my ability to wonder at the possibilities of science and human potential, whereas Teranesia almost makes me want to hate scientists!<br />My advice to Greg Egan if he ever reads this: let yourself go, you are infinitely better when your imagination is not so artificially constrained.	2001-07-19
US	50164230	R2FQ7UJPSY3P6M	0345350499	627223385	The Mists of Avalon	Books	5	6	7	N	N	A beautiful and humane classic	Books that turn expectations upside-down are always favourites of mine. This one is no exception. <br />So many more limited authors seem to think it is a really great idea to rewrite the Arthur legends and come up with dull but worthy heroic fantasy. Bradley didn't. She created a vision that was both fantastic and imaginative but is also rooted a fair amount of historical understanding - the period of history in which Arthur is rooted was a period of religous change: Pagan religions declining or changing in the face of Christianity; immense social and cultural dislocation is also understandable as more matriarchal societies were superceded by patriarchal ones. <br />But that's not the point, of course. Bradley, in subverting the conventional Arthur story, wrote a fine and moving piece of fiction, replete with memorable characters and real emotional development. I know I always go on about the need for emotional maturity in novels - but to me, this is what makes or breaks stories. This is a story about people and their understandings and relations with each other, it isn't a piece of propaganda or a manifesto for anything. Sure, it is pagan and it is feminist, but those things made up what Bradley was and were part of what made her such a good author and worthwhile human being, so what do you expect? People who think that there are only certain allowable perspectives from which one should see the universe should either learn and be prepared to change, or leave more complicated and nuanced visions like Bradley's well alone. <br />The Mists of Avalon is a classic, a beautiful and humane work that should read by anyone with an open mind and a love of well-crafted fantastic writing.	2001-07-18
US	50164230	R13HICE3UQO2VN	0151004544	517679535	Shiva 3000: A Novel	Books	3	3	7	N	N	Patronising Psychedelic Pulp	Shiva 3000 is a bizarre mixture of good old fashioned pulp fiction combined with psychedelic sci-fi and a dash of orientalist exploitation. It hasn't really got much to do with India as a real place. The 'India' of Shiva 3000 is as unreal as the Raj of Merchant-Ivory films. It is an 'orient of the mind', a western author's romantic and exotic setting for a quixotic quest. It is brim-full of ideas and fantastic devices: a plot by latter-day followers of the Kama Sutra and the out-of-control god-machines being the main examples. It is fun in its own way, but the characters are no more than ciphers, the plot is simply an excuse to pile on the next strange inventions and it is all faintly patronising to India in a way that other sci-fi or fantasy novels set in non-western settings have not been; McHugh's China Mountain Zhang being a worthy example. So, an enjoyable and inventive romp but uncomfortable in some ways.	2001-07-17
US	50164230	RGSD706XZLTLL	0312868839	16567780	Saucer Wisdom	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Quietly hilarious	In trying to treat this as a serious but disguised scientific or mystical text, some people seem, in my view, to have completely missed the point.* <br />This book is a blast. It's hilarious. Even Buce Sterling's introduction is taking the mickey. From the 'Frank Shook' charcacter and all his bizarre friends and enemies through the eccentric aliens to the whacked-out DMT-fantasy drawings, Saucer Wisdom is one big riff on the insanity of Californian culture with all its weirdness and UFO fixations, its spaced-out hippies and way-too-serious hackers and crackers. It's also a nostalgic but knowingly humorous retrospective on past visions of how the future would be, saturated with that Golden Age of sci-fi nutty predictiveness, the less paranoid days when UFOs came to bring us cosmic messages of love and peace, and when everyone knew that in the future they would have intelligent machines and telepathy and a robot dog for the kids. The humour of Saucer Wisdom is moderated by a humane and tolerant vision of humanity: while Rucker is laughing, he's not patronising. This is not vicious satire, it is a gently self-mocking and whimsical journey.<br />So forget any 'messages', forget serious sci-fi, just knock-back, drift away, and smile to yourself for a few hours. Lovely.<br />*At least that's what I thought. If Rudy Rucker really is being serious (which I doubt somehow), then Saucer Wisdom is still funny but for very different reasons!	2001-07-17
US	50164230	R1K6ZE7DICFOND	185798711X	894115662	Little, Big (Fantasy Masterworks)	Books	5	14	14	N	N	Bigger	I recently re-read 'Little, Big' and was reminded what a superb book this is. <br />Crowley mixes American ruralism, European fairy tales and the pioneering fantasy of William Morris into a beautiful blend that somehow transcends its elements, and produces a book that you cannot help but love. 'Little, Big' is especially notable for walking the difficult faerie tightrope that falling from one side would land you in tweeness and on the other in cynicism, with ease. Characters like George Mouse and Daily Alice could have been so sugary and trite in a less skillful writer's hands. The gradual gathering darkness of the story as the book evolves could have been simple and unsubtle modern horror without Crowley's magic.<br />Finally, 'Little, Big' has a setting at the centre of it that is as memorable as the greatest places in literature. A house literally in the middle-of-nowhere, not entirely separate from the outside world and its developments but somehow immune from the worst, whose jumbled architecture and grounds get larger as you go in: Edgewater is a fascinating and timeless creation.<br />For once, a masterpiece that really deserves the accolade.	2001-07-17
US	50164230	R228M79LTOX0VC	0061057983	514473042	Diaspora	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Inwards and Upwards	Diaspora has rapidly become one of my favourite books: here's why. <br />A fabulous book, Diaspora is simply so dense, filled with invention, with mind-expanding discovery. At his worst, as in his disappointing recent mainstream sci-fi novel, Terranesia, Greg Egan can be overly didactic, dull and sluggish. But here, at his best, he can do what no other contemporary 'hard' science fiction writer can do: he can turn scientific speculation into sheer wonder. When he concentrates on letting loose this amazing flow of ideas, an almost stream-of-consciousness expanding of whole universes out of the tiniest and most unexpected cracks like endless fractal flowers, his writing can be an almost mystical experience, a celebration of what the human mind can conceive. <br />Yet it does not rely simply on this stunning and fertile scientific speculation: Egan's characters are real; despite being virtual people, citizens of a computer polis, they are human, they grow, change and develop in comprehensible ways, even if their abilities and situation are beyond us. I have never come across another writer who can convincingly describe what it is like to see in five dimensions, and then equally comprehensibly portray the sheer emotional and physical shock of being restricted to three again. It is this combination of emotional maturity and ever unfolding wonder that makes Diaspora more like Attanasio's baroque masterpiece, Last Legends of Earth (another favourite of mine), than any other conventional hard sci-fi. <br />Diaspora's only disappointment is that it has to end.	2001-07-17
US	50164230	R2YNYVNX2HF98L	076530032X	555475897	Cosmonaut Keep (Engines of Light)	Books	3	11	13	N	N	Macleod's authorial mid-life crisis?	What's happening to Ken MacLeod? <br />It seems to be a kind of authorial mid-lfe crisis for SF authors that they have to write a three-volume space opera or they won't feel complete. Some of these are superb though: for example, Peter Hamiliton's 'Night's Dawn' sequence and Paul J. MacAuley's recent trilogy. Macleod's (at least judging by this first volume), doesn't measure up. <br />Despite having reservations about his ability to really sustain a story, and his often wooden or stereotyped characters, I've always enjoyed his books, not least because of their determinedly idiosyncratic left-wing politics and situations. This one is also enjoyable enough, and has some great individual scenes (in particular the dinosaur-herding-by-flying-saucer bit), but it is too much of the same: parrallel stories (again), beautiful dark-haired heroines (again) etc. And, some of the devices needed to keep the plot going just make you go &quot;D'oh!&quot;. I also found the nearer future story-line featuring a group of very dull computer hackers and their friends, uninvolving. <br />I was left feeling unsure whether the whole thing wasn't meant as parody, and perhaps that the author wasn't sure either. Oh well...	2001-05-03
US	50164230	RVC7G9BQJG5PP	0345443020	981903971	Perdido Street Station (Bas-Lag)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Down in the Depths of a Sprawling, Fantastic London	Of all the great cities of the world, London inspires the most extreme mixture of love and hatred. Visitors (and many residents) don't understand why anyone would want to live there: it is dark, depressing, dirty and deprived; the vast differences between the very rich and the very poor evident everywhere. But it also commands a fierce loyalty in those who recognise its curious depths, especially authors, like Charles Dickens, Iain Sinclair, Michael Moorcock or Peter Ackroyd, who are most aware of it's multi-layered psychogeography, the accumulation of level upon level of the grime of history and memory. <br />But why, you may ask, am I talking about London?<br />Well, make no mistake, despite its fictional alias, New Crobuzon, Perdido Street Station is as much about London as its predecessor, King Rat, and a far more successful book at that.  The relative success of Perdido Street Station is, I think, actually due to, rather than, in spite of, its fantastic nature. King Rat was a little to eager to place itself in the contemporary youth culture of the London underground music scene, and a little too precious in its use of fairy tale. This book however is a kind of infinitely exaggerated London transformed in climate and setting, full of garish colour and foul stench, packed with the human (and inhuman) refuse of wave upon wave of hopeful but ultimately disappointed migration. It is a dreadful but exciting place, a tightly controlled dictatorship with a vibrant anarchic underbelly. <br />The characters are both archetypes, but also memorable individuals: the freelance scientist who accidentally unleashes a terrible creature on the city; the human/insect sculptress who makes incandescent art for gangsters; the exiled birdman convict, who has lost that which made him what he was, his wings, for committing a crime which he cannot make humans understand;and my favourite - for a more alien alien I have rarely seen described - the completely inhuman spider-god, who weavesthe webs between worlds. Add to this a whole supporting cast of the more or less villainous and vile, bizarre races and crazed architecture, self-assembling robots and the punished 're-made' human cyborgs, curious drugs and unsavoury sexual practices, and you have a potent brew. <br />Yet, it is almost too strong. By the time a climax in the story is required, it is almost a let down, a disappointment. The city itself is so densely textured, so varied, so well imagined, and unfolds like a kaleidoscope of vulgar delights, that it can only overshadow story and plotting. Perhaps I am asking for too much: I certainly think New Crobuzon deserves its rightful place amongst the greatest fantastic worlds ever created - I could SMELL the place by the end! - but the story  is just stretched too much and the resolution too frantic, for me to give this a final fifth star. But don't let that dissuade anyone from reading Perdido Street Station, it is an astonishing book.	2001-05-03
US	50164230	R1LMBVG59WKTBL	0679879269	731430286	The Amber Spyglass (His Dark Materials, Book 3)	Books	5	11	13	N	N	A triumphant end to an astonishing series	Unpatronising, dark, humanist, epic, deep - a series based on a Seventeenth Century religious poem... this is children's literature?  Yes.  Rewrite the critical textbooks because this is the triumphant conclusion to a series for children (and adults) that doesn't talk down or compromise artistry in any way. Not many people have been able to do this - perhaps only Alan Garner, and Ursula Le Guin's Earthsea books. A lot has been written about Harry Potter recently, and while that series is amusing, diverting and fun, J.K. Rowling doesn't have half of the humanity, understanding, emotion, style and characterisation of Philip Pullman. 'His Dark Materials' is withtout doubt the best fantastic series that has ever been written for older children.  I'll restrict myself to some key reasons: first of all Pullan is honest and courageous enough to stand up to the cheap and patronising relgious morality that has characterised a lot of children's literature, and not just overtly religous series like C.S. Lewis' 'Narnia' sequence. Pullman is a passionate humanist whose belief in the complex, difficult but wonderful variety of humanity infuses this book. And he even manages to kill God in a very humane way! However, the characters don't all survive and have happy endings - there is death and loss and pain, which are all essential to the series. The books are full of darkness, but it is a darkness which can be wrestled with and overcome. A particularly fine part of this final book is set in the dismal realm of the dead, full of the disappointed and the hopeless spirits of those who had believed in something transcendant after death. The key to the unpatronising nature of the Series is the way in which the characters change and grow up through the three books. They don't remain children - there is even a sensitive and effective description of sexual awakening - you don't find that in many children's books.  Finally, there is the incredible scope of Pullman's worlds. He has created not just one, but several beautfully detailed worlds, complete with their own evolutions: armoured bears (my favorite!), tiny people who fly on dragonflies, a whole world whose symmetries are different from our own, complex villains, an underlying universal system that succesfully combines magic religion and quantum physics...  I could go on. Suffice it to say that this is a work of genius that should be read to children, by children and by adults.	2001-03-28
US	50164230	R1489R2X4P2EHH	0812589041	401439625	Ender's Game	Books	1	28	63	N	N	Not my favourite!	This is not the worst book ever written, but how Amazon can put this in its best SF of the Twentieth Century is quite beyond me. To me, this is what gives SF a bad name: juvenile militaristic rubbish with religous propagandist underpinnings; stereotypes instead of characters, a by-numbers plot; no depth, no complexity, no intelligence. I read this first when I was a teenager and thought it was bad then. I'm afraid it hasn't improved with age.	2000-10-24
US	50164230	R5DOZNZ1ZQOTY	0441478123	101055477	The Left Hand of Darkness	Books	5	6	7	N	N	A novel worth patience and effort	Some of the best novels in any genre, but particularly in SF, conjure emotions and thought out of stories that may not in themselves appear remarkable. These books don't do it for everyone. You have to make a commitment, and let go any prejudices about what stories 'should' do, and what SF 'should be. You have to be patient. <br />This is one of those books. It is about mood, culture and even climate more than it is about plot or action. It seeps into you slowly. It infects you and warps your perception of the world around you. Those of you who want things straight, simple and clear cut will probably hate this book. People who see the grey areas, the bits in between, will probably learn to love it.	2000-10-24
US	50164230	R3UZMFFLX818KL	0449213013	750649906	Earth Abides	Books	2	12	17	N	N	Apocalypse? What Apocalypse?	Despite the quality of Stewart's writing, which is elegaic at its best and readable at its worst, this is a very creaky and dated work. Certainly, you have to make some allowances for the culture and time in which books are written, but like John Wyndham, Stewart seems handicapped by an assumption of the rightness of bourgeois values, especially when it comes to women. The book does address this, and in some ways is all about the struggle to maintain these values in a world where they are making less and less sense. But, you get the feeling that, in terms of sociopolitical change (as opposed to the obvious physical change - the old infrastructure has been destroyed), it's a case of 'apocalypse? what apocalypse?'. Stewart's characters are like Hollywood western stereotypes - the men are either upright patriachs or shifty loners; the women are wives and daughters who appear strong but are really just there for breeding and cooking. There are works which do tackle the obvious questions of the use of social roles in a society totally different from that which created them, most notably the vastly under-rated New Zealand film, The Quiet Earth (if I've remembered the name right). Read Stewart by all means: it isn't a bad book, but it isn't the classic it's built up to be.	2000-10-24
US	50164230	R11VHMV5AX9K7R	0446606928	691198794	Blue Light	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Too profound for the unwilling	I can understand the disappointment of many of Walter Mosley's fans with this book; superficially, it has very little in common with his crime fiction. But, get rid of your preconceptions and your expectations because this is a profound and meditative exploration of what makes us human, of colour, of race, of poverty, of inequality. The writing is magnificent, characterised by bursts of seering linguistic and thematic improvisation. This is literature infused by the free-wheeling but fiercely disciplined spirit of Miles Davis, the transcendentalism of John Coltrane, and the black psychedelic journeys of Sun-Ra and George Clinton. This is pure and expressive journeying too, unencumbered by his own literary past or the expectations of his readers (which is probably why it confuses so many of them). What if ordinary, poor people were able to reach their full potential, that they could tear down the barriers imposed by a racist and unequal world? What if people came together to protect and nurture the earth? What if sociopaths and the insane could become whole people? What if people could really live together without judgmement? These might be unfashionable subjects to the cynical souls of literary critics, but they are profound questions, the really important questions, dealt with through the metaphorical struggle between the Blues, the transformed fully-realised humans, and the Gray Man, the archetypal representation of everything that is bad about humans and human societies. The evocation of atmosphere and mood, which vary from the most brutal and violent to the most tender and compassionately lyrical are unsuspassed in contemporary literature; the scenes in the forest-garden prior to the apocalyptic finale, and the downbeat coda are particularly fine. This is an exquisite, beautiful and ultimately painful allegory, destined to be misunderstood and reviled by the ignorant, the uncaring and those unwilling to suspend their expectations and take a leap into the unknown.	2000-07-11
US	50164230	R359Z93KG6CZB0	1582430179	358466190	Cocaine Nights	Books	2	2	4	N	N	Club class? More like cruise control...	Not a bad story, with the usual Ballardian ideas. But that is the problem: J.G. Ballard is getting lazy. Okay, so exposing the tedium, the superficiality, the pointlessness of bourgeouis life is the point of his  writing (isn't it?)... but Ballard's books are getting more and more  similar. This is just Vermillion Sands but less fantastic, Running Wild  running on empty (and much less economical and experimental in form). All  Ballard's characters, from The Drowned World to Cocaine Nights, are like  millenial parodies of people out of a Noel Cowerd play - 'how frightfully  dreadful, and pass me another cocktail, darling...'. Ballard is probably  right ot say that unfortunately this homogenous, leisured, airport lounge,  gated-communities culture is the future in a globalized, Americanized  world, but surely there are different ways of approching it than to write  the same thing, in the same way, over and over again?	2000-07-11
US	50164230	RS1KOD0J3Q0LS	1860461611	766706152	Strandloper (Harvill Panther)	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Novel of the Century?	Alan Garner's books for children were always favourites of mine (some kids do understand them!) - dark, edgy and able to fully immerse you in the textures of the worlds he created. He never patronised, never apologised,  just created and allowed the reader to enter.<br />Strandloper manages to do  the same for 'adults'.<br />This is a phenomenal book. He pitches the reader  into an Eighteenth Century world that is like nothing we know but seems to  resonate subconsciously within us. Language, thought patterns, religion are  at once strange but understandable at the margins of the modern mind. After  a few pages the reader is inside, immersed, before this perspective is  upended again, first with the desperate, fearful passage on board a convict  ship, and then with the deep mythic and symbolic language and imaginings of  the native Australians. The resolution is elegaic, sad and full of a sense  of the destructive change to come with the onset of the modern world.  <br />Garner's writing is utterly sparse, economic; there is no fat or  wastage. Yet there could be no better evocation of not one but two  cultures, which while they are superfically as different as could be, share  a basis in that they both possess symbolic languages connected with the  places and landscapes wherein they exist. These are both at odds with the  soul-less, disconnected, modern world at which the ending points.<br />My vote  for english novel of the 1990s if not the entire Twentieth Century, it was  criminally ignored by almost every major reviewer.	2000-04-17
US	50164230	R35VN83PPZGRVJ	0553295276	312335182	Beauty (Spectra Special Editions)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Beautiful but Confused	I haven't been all that impressed with Tepper's work in the past. And like some of her other books 'Beauty' is at once too long, too inoherent and too confused. I'm a green activist, but even I found the eco-disaster message  too bluntly hammered home (and too simplistic - does anyone really think  it's all about population anymore?). I also find her religous imagination  allows her an easy way out ( a bit too much of the 'deus ex machina') and  substitutes for a genuinely satisfying or hopeful / helpful conclusion.   <br />Having said all that,  I like the way she inverts and subverts  patriachal traditions in storytelling, and she can write beautifully at her  best. The character of Beauty herself progresses and develops wonderfully,  and the love story that transcends temporal barriers is touching and  genuinely life-affirming. The way in which the fairy tales are wound  together into one narrative is extremely skillful. <br />So, despite the  problems, I enjoyed 'Beauty', and isn't that the main thing? Oh, and I  liked the cat(s).	2000-03-31
US	50164230	R3RHJNZH0KBGSU	0380791226	842750810	Mission Child	Books	3	1	2	N	N	The best Ursula Le Guin novel she never wrote	Maureen McHigh's latest is not by any means a bad book. In fact it is a superb story of troubled adolescence and the uncertain relationship between low-tech and high-tech societies.<br />The problem is that it reads like the  kind of book Ursula Le Guin used to write thirty years ago back when she  was writing her best feminist science fiction. In fact it reads so much  like Le Guin that it doesn't read like McHugh anymore. <br />This wouln't be  so bad if McHugh's previous books had been bad, but they happened to be the  best things I had read in ages. Come back Maureen!	2000-01-28
US	50164230	RKQYV93L4HMWI	0812536266	27818083	Queen City Jazz	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Aims high, almost makes it	Mix together a bit of Alice in Wonderland, the Shakers, jazz improvisation, nanotechnology, plus traditional post-apocalypse sci-fi and you get Queen City Jazz.<br />It sounds like a mess and it almost is. However,  scientifically implausible ideas are kept together by a keen sense of the  surreal and the absurd. While the book is too long, there are passages full  of evocative beauty.<br />All in all, a very ambitious first novel, whose  ambitions are so high that it is bound not to reach them. It isn't as good  as the best bio- / nanotech sci-fi, in particular Paul J McAuley's  'Fairyland', but remarkable enough to merit 4 stars. <br />(On a final note, I  wonder whether Jeff Noon read this before writing 'Pollen'. Although  unavailable in the UK at the time, it had already been published in the  USA, and there are enough similarities to make me suspicious... perhaps it  is just coincidence?)	1999-09-03
US	50164230	R1MHPPSZ3AMS9M	0812516338	550073564	A Million Open Doors	Books	3	1	3	N	N	Getting better, but...	I hated the first John Barnes' book I read - 'Kaleidoscope Century'. It was with some trepidation, then, that I picked this out of the bargain bin of my local bookshop. <br />Luckily this was better, both in terms of writing  style and characterisation. The overall metaphorical device is quite neat;  it is bascially quite a simple morality tale about the impact of  communications and transport technologies on isolated societies. The main  contrasting cultures were nicely drawn and fairly believable.<br />However it  suffers from some of the same faults as his earlier work: he still appears  to be plundering Heinlein's back-catalogue for ideas (which wouldn't be so  bad if Heinlein was actually any good...); he relies too much on the  juvenile adventure story to carry the plot along; he is too impressed by  sadistic violence; and he seems to regard women with a rather misogynisytic  eye.<br />Still, it is an improvement, and enjoyable enough to ignore some of  the faults, and to make me want to see if he has improved still further  with the sequal.	1999-08-20
US	50164230	R1CYV5EIO7KY55	0553374354	411332450	Evolution's Shore	Books	5	6	6	N	N	An intelligent novel about alien contact? No, really...	Novels with aliens in can be disastrous. They are too much like odd versions of ourselves, or a few earth species mixed together. Ian McDonald's vision avoids these pitfalls. His 'Chaga' is a substance, a  machine, a being (or beings), a process and many other things all at once.  None of them are remotely human or earthlike, yet there are hints that it  has something to do with our own evolution.  Given the rich descriptive  skill with which McDonald evokes the utter strangeness of the rapidly  growing Chaga, you might expect him not to be so good at human characters.  You'd be wrong. His characterisation is superb - Gaby, Faraway, Tembo,  Shepherd, Haran, Oksana and others are all believable people not cartoon  cutouts. They invade your thoughts and beg you to care about their lives.   The best thing of all though about this book is that it shits all over the  idea that the USA is and will always be the most important place on the  planet from a great height. While the Americans and the Europeans are  running around treating the Chaga like a threat, a disease, many of the  Africans realise that adaption, symbiosis, is the key to their future, and  the future of the planet as a whole. By the end of the book Africa is  turning the tables on the USA; this theme is continued in the equally  wonderful sequel.  Together, this book and its sequel add up to one of the  most humane, hopeful, rich and wonderful science-fiction tales to have been  written in recent years.	1999-07-30
US	50164230	R3EZIYSUGD3FAY	0385263937	589087680	The Last Legends of Earth	Books	5	2	2	N	N	The best sci-fi book of the last decade	It is difficult to describe how good this book is. The concept is mind-blowing, drawn from the fuzzy edges of quantum physics, yet the human characters are real and ordinary, trying to live their lives out caught up  in a beautiful but unfair and cruel world in which they were never meant to  live. As far as world creation goes, there is nothing like Chalco-Doror,  not even in Attanasio's other works, but it is not the invention and the  imaginative flair that is the best part of Last Legends, it is the quality  of the writing. No-one in sci-fi (or beyond) writes like him. His style is  brilliant and baroque, defined by a pure artistic force that overwhelms the  reader, and forces you to be inside the book. Reading this book WILL make  your life better! It should have won awards by the bucket-load- how this  can be ignored while the likes of Orson Scott Card get recognised is beyond  me...	1999-01-22
US	50164230	R1QKMEG7JEBRN0	0812533461	621659799	Kaleidoscope Century	Books	1	1	7	N	N	Derivative, nasty and dull	This is the only book of Barnes I have read so far, so I am not going to make any wholesale judgements about him yet. However this book is derivative, nasty and, contrary to the praise heaped on his style, stylistically limited and at times dull. It seems overly influenced (and that's being kind) by Heinlein's Time Enough for Love. I know it is meant to be violent and immoral, because that is the world Barnes has created, but there seems too much sympathy with the violence, and not enough style and panache in the writing to compensate; in fact it is just tedious at times.	1999-01-22
US	50164230	R25D9UK6NY70RP	0553562614	445913	Snow Crash	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Eager to please, but irritating	Tries, and for in many ways succeeds in, satirising cyberpunk and concentional heroic sci-fi, however is let down by the parts where Stephenson takes himself too seriously and reveals himself to be abit of a  smart-alec. Huge chunks of the book are taken up with explaining things to  the reader, especially the parts about Summerian culture and language -  'look at me, I'm really erudite!' he screams at you. This is always a sign  of inexperience in writing. Elsewhere the narrative moves along at a  breakneck pace, with little real character development, though this I  assume is part of the satire. Overall this book is like a little Jack  Russell dog- eager to please, but so immensely irritating you feel like  kicking it.	1999-01-22
US	50164230	R2KRN36H0CJ5TN	0486250253	849470897	The Golem (Dover Mystery, Detective, & Other Fiction)	Books	5	28	29	N	N	More intense than Kafka	Most people know Franz Kafka, but very few have heard of, and still less have read, his Prague contemporary Gustav Meyrink. This book is his masterwork, a brooding paranoid fantasy based on the Jewish Cabbalist  legends of the clay automaton, the Golem. However the Golem in this story  is simply a symbolic device which sets the backdrop for a tale of madness,  obsession and the decay of a whole city and its inhabitants. The whole  ensmble is made more poignant by the sad life of its creator- Meyrink was  in life a paranoiac who lived his life in fear and spent much time in  asylums. This is one of the books of the twentieth century, its dark  imaginings foreshadowing much of what was to come in the 1930's and '40's.	1999-01-22
US	50164230	R1PKYZTX8ITTAJ	0061056995	124880454	Legacies	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Confronting the sins of the past	Sinclair's debut novel is phenomenal. A mentally disabled hero, Lian D'Haldt is partially raised by empathic aliens on a world where his own people, the Burdanians, live an unreal existance in an idealised artificial  home environment, whilst knowing all the time that they might have  destroyed the the very world they seek to recreate and remember. Lian's  inability to communicate with his own people, and his sense of dislocation,  proves however to be the spark for the Burdanians to confront their guilt  over their past actions and return to their homw world.  Legacies is a  beautifully written evocation of not one but two alien worlds and peoples,  with an interesting and successful structure; Lian's personal story is told  in parrallel to the tale of the return to Burdania.  Needs reading more  than once.	1999-01-21
US	50164230	R4B0XB3QTHM9C	0380786753	805742654	Fairyland	Books	5	13	14	N	N	A visionary scramble through a genetically-engineered future	There's nothing quite like 'Fairyland'. It's unneven in terms of its construction and character development, but more than makes up for it by the intensity of vision displayed by MacAuley. He has shown in his short  fiction (see King of the Hill) that he is a master of the art of exploring  the darkest recessess of our mythology (this is Brothers Grimm territory  not Hans Christian Anderson!), and blending it into our worst imaginings  about the future. Fairyland is a triumphant culmination of this theme- a  high-tech future where the past is an ever-present nightmare. This is best  illustrated by the inhuman fairies' capture of the artificial 'magic  kingdom' of Eurodisney, turning it into something to be feared and avoided  as the source of evil. Like Gibson on magic mushrooms. Brilliant!	1999-01-21
US	50164230	RSHUKMNIQCNCG	0061058203	610539716	Blueheart	Books	5	4	4	N	N	World creation at its best	This is a novel of colonisation and the changes it brings to the place and the colonists. Where many books in this genre develop either the setting at the expense of the characters or the characters at the expense of the  setting, Alison Sinclair manages both, and throws in all sorts of current  political concerns (environmental destruction, genetic engineering etc.).  The way these elements (the water-covered planet with its complex ecosystem  and characters you can believe) are moulded together with slow-burning but  intriguing plot development is so masterly that it makes it hard to believe  that the author is so young... AND her first book, Legacies, was so good  too! Alison Sinclair deserves a much wider readership.	1999-01-21
US	50164230	R1HJKC4XTNBGW4	0312860986	999993855	China Mountain Zhang	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Life is hard, even in the furture.	China Mountain Zhang is about ordinary people in an extraordinary world. It's all too easy in fiction to concentrate on the unnusual, on the heroes, on the 'big' picture. What is harder is to get inside the lives of those at  the bottom, the ordinary people for whom life is not adventurous, but dull,  slow and difficult. Zhang is human, not superhuman; his dilemma is not how  to change the world or how to save civilization as we know it, but how to  find a place for himself. There is plot, and there is resolution (contrary  to what some seem to think), but the plot is subtle, and the resolution  emotional, not only for Zhang, but also for the reader. This is a book that  works as much by getting us to understand Zhang as by inspiring questions  and emotions in ourselves. It's political, but the politics are personal,  micro-level, those things that impact on everyone. As an evocation of the  mundane sadness and suffering, hope and resolution in daily life, this book  is not only unequalled in sci-fi, but is also up there with the best  writing in any genre.	1999-01-21
US	50164230	RUGK7B2HV3XO8	1873982739	841042755	The Arabian Nightmare (Contemporary English language fiction)	Books	5	21	23	N	N	Curiouser and curiouser	Quite probably one of the best books I have ever read and a doomed to be forgotten masterpiece of the twentieth century. The Arabian Nightmare is a dark narrative of a hallucinagenic fouteenth century Cairo. Talking apes,  magicians, Caliphs and mysterious underworld figures drift in and out of  the interlocking tales within tales. This is, as its title suggests, the  Arabian Nights gone wrong; it is imposssible to know what is happening or  even who is who at any moment. Comparable only to perhaps Gustav Meyrink or  The Cabinet of Dr Caligari, this book is impossible to put down and will  give you dangerous dreams for many a night. Absolutely superb.	1999-01-21
US	50164230	R30JCVVMXE7TP8	0451450132	57931902	Ancient Light	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Almost a masterpiece	This is a big novel of human disruption of an alien culture that they don't really understand. At one level it can be read as a political parable of First World interference in other cultures on our own planet, but it has  many levels, and many complex engaging characters both Orthean and human.  There are minor problems with it especially in small inconsistencies that  get lost in the twists and turns of the poltical intrigue in the plot. The  influence of Frank Herbert's Dune sequence seems clear as is that of Ursula  Le Guin, but the book is all the better for that. Overall, definitely worth  reading, but not quite entirely satisfying.	1999-01-21
US	50164230	R17NJH84VJHGQN	0812524101	590068287	Half the Day Is Night	Books	5	8	8	N	N	More life at the bottom	After China Mountain Zhang, I wondered whether McHugh could write anything quite as good. But she has. Again, in terms of physical action, nothing much happens, indeed this book is much more enclosed and claustrophobic  than Zhang, not least because of its setting in an undersea city. But the  real enclosure is not physical but economic and political; most people are  unable to leave because they are too poor or somehow unable to obtain the  necessary permits. Like CMZ this  is a story about the people left behind  in sci-fi's glorious visions of the future, and even though David Dai is in  some ways much more of a traditional action hero than Zhang (he's a  mercenary and bodyguard), his profession is not glamorous, and the heroic  potential is further subverted by necessity which forces him into dangerous  and tedious construction work. The politics of Half the Day is Night are  more overt than CMZ, more immediately about the vast masses of poor and  marginalised in our own world, but, hey, what's wrong with that? There are  too few politically engaged fiction writers. Another very thoughtful and  satisfying book.	1999-01-21
