US	50174289	R13UJE5UGA5GZ9	0786711477	913565174	The Bloody Crucible of Courage: Fighting Methods and Combat Experience of the Civil War	Books	2	26	34	N	N	Another Near-Miss	This volume is like the Powder River-an inch deep and a mile wide.  While the author has evidently done a large amount of research from a very impressive bibliography, the text, and many of the conclusions, don't match the effort that was quite obviously put into this book.<br /><br />There is a lot of good information in this volume, but it appears to this reviewer that the author was attempting to be all things to all readers and enthusiasts.  That, coupled with some glaring errors and critical information left out leaves the book crippled.<br /><br />The artillery section, for example, is very poorly done.  Information in the section(s), such as ammunition, the reference to French artillery practices in the Napoleonic period, tactics, and the problem with identifying Henry Jackson Hunt (who would become the artillery chief of the Army of the Potomac) giving him three separate entries in the Index, all contribute to the impression that the research done here was superficial at best.<br /><br />Further, while the excellent Artillerist's Manual by John Gibbon is referenced, the equally excellent, and necessary, Ordnance and Gunnery by Benton and Field Artillery Tactics 1864 have not.  Other excellent artillery references, such as The Guns at Gettysburg and Sound of the Guns by Fairfax Downey have not been referenced which would have enabled the author to develop his artillery sections in the book to an acceptable and accurate level of scholarship.<br /><br />Emory Upton has only been mentioned in passing, and his comrade in arms, David Russell, not at all.  Upton was arguably the best tactician produced by either side in the conflict and his absence is striking.  He and Russell were responsible for the superb night attack at Rappahannock Station in November 1863, the first successful night attack of the war.  Further, Upton's famous assault at Spotsylvania in 1864 is barely mentioned in passing.  Seems to me that these innovative and successful tactics should have been presented for discussion and review along with some of the other examples the author focuses on.<br /><br />Further, James Wilson, the famous Union cavalry commander whose horsemen rampaged in the South late in the war and defeated Bedford Forrest gets no mention in this text.<br /><br />The excellent Time-Life Civil War Series doesn't appear to have been used as source material, while such dubious works as Attack and Die have been.  While the Time-Life Series is a secondary source, it is an immense study, full of primary source material contributed by an excellent team of Civil War historians.<br /><br />While a noble effort, this work falls short of its intended objective and contains too many errors to be used as a standard reference.  This is the same situation with the authors two other works, The Anatomy of Victory and With Musket, Cannon, and Sword, which is unfortunate.d have been presented for discussion and review along with some of the other examples the author focuses on. <br /> <br />Further, James Wilson, the famous Union cavalry commander whose horsemen rampaged in the South late in the war and defeated Bedford Forrest gets no mention in this text.   <br /> <br />The excellent Time-Life Civil War Series doesn't appear to have been used as source material, while such dubious works as Attack and Die have been.  While the Time-Life Series is a secondary source, it is an immense study, full of primary source material contributed by an excellent team of Civil War historians. <br /> <br />While a noble effort, this work falls short of its intended objective and contains too many errors to be used as a standard reference.  This is the same situation with the authors two other works, The Anatomy of Victory and With Musket, Cannon, and Sword, which is unfortunate.	2005-03-25
US	50174289	R1AB0WYNB6CK3G	0946819270	993865566	Heraldic Miniature Knights	Books	5	6	6	N	N	'We Few, We Happy Few, We band of Brothers...	This is a superbly illustrated volume on collecting and identifying model knights for collectorsw and enthusiasts.  The photographs, as well as the accompanying drawings of heraldry in color, are magnificent, and enable the reader to do excellent research for either his own collection or to start and build one.<br />The models of Courtenay, Ping, Selwyn-Smith, Desfontaines, and other manufacturers and enthusiasts made a visual treat, and the accompanying text is excellent.  While I was somewhat disappointed that Britains excellent Swoppet plastic knights were not included, that is a minor distraction and does not take away from either the presentation or the impact of this volume.<br />My favorite presentation was of the work of Selwyn-Smith which eventually became the Knights of Agincourt in the Britains range in the 1950s, which I also collect, as well as a very small range of models which are a conversion of Selwyn-Smith's models and Courtney parts, such as helmets, heads, and stands.  The heraldry and painting of both of these small ranges as models and not toys is outstanding and are an inspiration to improve one's own collection, or to start a collection of knights and men-at-arms as soon as possible.<br />It should be noted that Britains has started to produce a new range of Knights of Agincourt, which are excellent and well worth getting and fit in very well with both the old range and the material in this book.<br />This volume is enthusiastically recommended.	2004-02-25
US	50174289	R10YK0NY4AG3Q3	1841764116	272264393	Guilford Courthouse 1781: Lord Cornwallis's Ruinous Victory (Campaign)	Books	1	28	33	N	Y	Another Missed Opportunity...	This book was an outstanding opportunity to bring the scholarship on the Battle of Guilford Courthouse, one of the most decisive of the War of the American Revolution, up to date.  However, this book on the whole is a miss for three reasons.  First, there was no apparent attempt to use archival material from the Maryland or Delaware State historical associations, from which much material is available on those units of the Continental Line from those two states.  The Maryland and Delaware Continentals were arguably the best of the Continental units that formed the hard core of the American regulars and were on a par in discipline, training, and combat performance with the well-trained British and German regular regiments that fought against them.  The 1st Maryland wrecked to British battalions during the course of the battle, and the Delawares, under the dauntless Captain Robert Kirkwood, performed both in the screening and skirmish role as well as taking part in the hard fighting at the American third line.<br />Next, there is no reference that shows that the Company of Military Historians, with its excellent resources, was used in the preparation of this volume, which would have helped with uniforms and equipment.  This is especially telling in the third color print by the artist depicting the defeat of the 2d Battalion of Guards, which wore a compaign uniform from its deployment to North America in 1776 to the end of the war.  The Company of Military Historians is a treasure trove of information and not to use them, or their excellent publications (their Journal and the hardback publication, Military Uniforms in America, edited by Col John R. Elting, and having contributors such as Herbert Knotel, Frederick P. Todd, H. Charles McBarron, Clyde Risley, and Henry Larter) is a major error.<br />Last, and most importantly, the staff at the Guilford Courthouse Military Park was not consulted by the author.  If they had been, it would have been found, among other things, that the American third line, where the bulk of the Continental infantry was posted, was actually further back in the woodline than previously thought.  The park historians are excellent and are continually finding and updating material and knowledge and if a book is being done on the battle, they should be both consulted and used as references.  This the author failed to do.  Hence, the book, as and when published, was outdated and inaccurate from the beginning and therefore useless as a reference to the battle.  Again, a major mistake that irreparably damaged this volume.<br />Minor mistakes, such as having a picture of the Battle of Eutaw Springs on the cover, stating that British grenadiers of the period wore mitre caps instead of bearskins, stating that the Delaware Battalion had a Virginia company assigned (they were brigaded with Washington's cavalry and a rifle company for the battle, but the riflemen were not part of the battalion), and overstating Gates strength at the Battle of Camden further denigrates the reliability of the book.<br />Lastly, I found it very strange that Hatch's The Battle of Guilford Courthouse, published by the National Park Service in 1971 wasn't used as a reference, or at least wasn't listed.  It is full of primary source material, orders of battle, strengths and losses for both sides, and is an essential reference for any study of Guilford Courthouse.<br />This volume is not recommended, and as a last piece of information, I have been told that the staff of the Guilford Courthouse National Military Park will not stock it in their excellent book store as it is inaccurate and not up to date.  That in itself says a lot and is a definitive verdict on the inherent value of the volume.that the American third line, where the bulk of the Continental infantry was posted, was actually further back in the woodline than previously thought.  The park historians are excellent and are continually finding and updating material and knowledge and if a book is being done on the battle, they should be both consulted and used as references.  This the author failed to do.  Hence, the book, as and when published, was outdated and inaccurate from the beginning and therefore useless as a reference to the battle.  Again, a major mistake that irreparably damaged this volume.<br />Minor mistakes, such as having a picture of the Battle of Eutaw Springs on the cover, stating that British grenadiers of the period wore mitre caps instead of bearskins, stating that the Delaware Battalion had a Virginia company assigned (they were brigaded with Washington's cavalry and a rifle company for the battle, but the riflemen were not part of the battalion), and overstating Gates strength at the Battle of Camden further denigrates the reliability of the book.<br />Lastly, I found it very strange that Hatch's The Battle of Guilford Courthouse, published by the National Park Service in 1971 wasn't used as a reference, or at least wasn't listed.  It is full of primary source material, orders of battle, strengths and losses for both sides, and is an essential reference for any study of Guilford Courthouse.<br />This volume is not recommended, and as a last piece of information, I have been told that the staff of the Guilford Courthouse National Military Park will not stock it in their excellent book store as it is inaccurate and not up to date.  That in itself says a lot and is a definitive verdict on the inherent value of the volume.	2004-01-18
US	50174289	R1VS0DYX0Z48Z2	0404515207	183376124	Prussian Military Reforms, 1786-1813	Books	5	6	8	N	N	'I am a Prussian, and a Prussian I will be!'	For any student of the Prussian army of the French Revolutinary and Napoleonic Wars this volume is a must.  A worthy companion to Paret's excellent Clausewitz and the State and Yorck and the Era of Prussian reform, as well as Charles White's The Enlightened Soldier (on Scharnhorst) and Gordon Craig's The Politics of the Prussian Army, Shanahan's work is singularly noteworthy for effectively trumping the old Prussian legend of the Krumper.<br />The Krumper system was supposedly the method used by the Prussian reformers to build up a greatly reduced Prussian army following the debacle of 1806, where the Prussian army was completely defeated in three weeks by Napoleon and the Grande Armee, and the Prussian state was shattered.  What Shanahan proves, using Prussian sources and archival material, is that the Krumper system was a failure.  Reduced to 42,000 men by treaty in 1808, the Prussian fielded only 65,000 in March 1813 at the beginning of the so-called War of National Liberation against the French.<br />Further, Shanahan gives an excellent picture of the Prussian army as a whole from 1786, the year of Frederick the Great's death, until 1813, covering the defeats of 1806 and the Prussian army's deficiencies in leadership, training, tactics, organization, and administration that led to the disaster.<br />This volume is highly recommended and remains as a standard text, along with Paret's, White's, and Craig's studies, against the revisionist viewpoints on the reasons for the Prussian failures in 1806 that are the result's of 'new scholarship' from Prussian apologists.	2003-12-31
US	50174289	RMV98U3VZ4X12	0313309965	87444333	The Formative Influences, Theories, and Campaigns of the Archduke Carl of Austria: (Contributions in Military Studies)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	'A Modern Major General'	This is an outstanding and timely work about one of the best general officers in any army of the French Revolutionary and Napoleonic periods.  A thoughtful student of the art of war, as well as an outstanding troop leader and commander, Charles was the best of the Austrian senior commanders (though a cynic might state he was 'the best of a bad lot'), and he fought long and hard against the French, if he thought it wise at the time or not.  He was also treated very shabbily by his brother, Emperor Francis, after the unsuccessful Campaign of 1809.  He also holds the distinction of being one of the few commanders to have defeated Napoleon on the battlefield (Essling, 1809).<br />The author takes a common sense and somewhat novel approach to this study.  He goes into Charles' intellectual background and influences, his training, and his writings.  He also deftly explains what type of general Charles was.  Charles, strategically, was an 18th century commander, and probably didn't have the 'killer instinct' of a true independent commander.  Tactically, he was excellent, and his contribution to the reforms of the Austrian army up to 1809 are noteworthy in organization, tactics, and training.  He had a lot to do with bringing the Austrian army to a peak of efficiency it probably had never had before (it is also noteworthy that the best Austrian performance of the period was probably as Napoleon's ally during the Russian campaign, from which Charles was notably absent, as he had been retired by his ingrate brother).<br />The meat of the book is the analysis of two campaigns that Charles fought-the 1796 campaign in Germany, and the Campaign of 1809, both watershed events (it should be noted that the author only covers the first half, the Ratisbon phase, of the Campaign of 1809 in depth).<br />The analysis of the 1796 campaign is masterful and, in my opinion, the best part of the book.  Here the author demonstrates Charles' strategic thinking, and if contrasted with what Napoleon was doing and achieved in northern Italy at the same time, definitely sets the two commanders apart in the way they waged war.  Charles is accurately portrayed as a careful, methodical commander and strategist, careful to protect his rear areas and line of communications, not taking calculated risks that might have ruined the French in Germany.  His sometimes timid generalship, and the aggressive type of go-for-the-throat generalship displayed by Napoleon, clearly demonstrate Charles' strategic thought and that he might not have understood the new type of warfare as displayed by the French.<br />The thoughtful student might want to run a comparison of Charles' 1796 campaign with those of Napoleon in northern Italy during the same period.  The difference in the two commanders becomes readily apparent.  Charles waged a careful, calculated campaign that, while defeating his enemy, didn't destroy him or end the war.  Napoleon defeated four Austrian armies in succession, in large part destroying them, especially at Rivoli in early 1797.  When the two met in the next campaign, Napoleon was victorious and dictating peace terms to the Austrians literally at the gates of Vienna.  Comparing these two types of generalship and strategic operations validates the author's opinion as expressed in this volume.<br />The chapter on 1809 is equally enlightening, clearly demonstrating that the author knows his subject manner.  The book's references are impeccable, and clearly demonstrate the in-depth research that was undertaken to complete this study.  It is one of the best books written on a neglected subject, and will be the standard for years to come.  It is highly recommended for any student of the period, and it clearly refutes some of the more inane material that has been written on the subject in the last few years.<br /><br />This volume is a keeper.oleon was doing and achieved in northern Italy at the same time, definitely sets the two commanders apart in the way they waged war.  Charles is accurately portrayed as a careful, methodical commander and strategist, careful to protect his rear areas and line of communications, not taking calculated risks that might have ruined the French in Germany.  His sometimes timid generalship, and the aggressive type of go-for-the-throat generalship displayed by Napoleon, clearly demonstrate Charles' strategic thought and that he might not have understood the new type of warfare as displayed by the French.<br />The thoughtful student might want to run a comparison of Charles' 1796 campaign with those of Napoleon in northern Italy during the same period.  The difference in the two commanders becomes readily apparent.  Charles waged a careful, calculated campaign that, while defeating his enemy, didn't destroy him or end the war.  Napoleon defeated four Austrian armies in succession, in large part destroying them, especially at Rivoli in early 1797.  When the two met in the next campaign, Napoleon was victorious and dictating peace terms to the Austrians literally at the gates of Vienna.  Comparing these two types of generalship and strategic operations validates the author's opinion as expressed in this volume.<br />The chapter on 1809 is equally enlightening, clearly demonstrating that the author knows his subject manner.  The book's references are impeccable, and clearly demonstrate the in-depth research that was undertaken to complete this study.  It is one of the best books written on a neglected subject, and will be the standard for years to come.  It is highly recommended for any student of the period, and it clearly refutes some of the more inane material that has been written on the subject in the last few years.<BR>     <BR>This volume is a keeper.	2003-12-30
US	50174289	R1SN8YDRA661ZX	1853675423	576891920	Imperial Glory	Books	5	4	7	N	N	'To Lie Like a Bulletin'	Greenhill books and David Markham have hit a home run with this magnificent collection of the Bulletins of Napoleon's Grande Armee.  This is the first time they have been collected together and published in English.  This book is a wonderful reference work, and if definitely fills in a very large blank in the history of the period.<br />There are some who would doubt the usefulness of the Bulletins as historical reference.  It is true that they were used as propaganda, but it is also true that they were full of accurate information as well as some misinformation, deliberately put in them by the Emperor.  There are two things that must be remembered when talking of Napoleon's Bulletins.  First, they were never intended as history; second, Napoleon was the first European ruler to speak directly to his people, and the Bulletins was one of the ways in which he did it.<br />An interesting facet of this volume is that it contains more than just the published Bulletins.  There is other relevant correspondence of the period, one of the most interesting is the death warrant issued against Austrian General Chasteler by Napoleon for his conduct regarding French and Bavarian prisoners during the Tyrol uprising in 1809.  Apparently, he allowed prisoners taken by troops under his command to be murdered, and did nothing about it.  There was a price on his head, but unfortunately he got away.  This is but one of the valuable gems that you will find in the pages of this most excellent of volumes.<br />This book is highly recommended and it should be on the bookshelf of every enthusiast of the period.  Much useful information and knowledge can be gleaned from these pages, and the author has definitely made his mark with this volume.	2003-06-28
US	50174289	R2LJ9S5GR0V03X	0375502912	678550726	Seabiscuit: An American Legend	Books	5	1	1	N	Y	'Come on Dover, Move Your Bloomin' ...!!!	I just found out about this absolutely magnificent book last month.  I was channel surfing, and ran across the Laura Hillebrand interview on C-Span.  I was immediately mesmerized by the name 'Seabiscuit' and listened intently to the story of how the book was done, saw the Seabiscuit memorabilia Miss Hillebrand brought to the interview, and was fascinated with the facts of the horse himself, what he did, and how it came about.  I immediately ordered the book.<br />It is a fascinating story of the little horse that could, his rich owner, the extraordinary man who trained him, and who could talk to horses, and the tragic, magnificent jockeys who rode him in his famous races.  All I could say when I finished the book was, 'What a horse!'<br />It is a story straight out of Hollywood, but this is the real thing.  As unlikely a partnership that ever was found the soon-to-be-great horse, bought him, trained, him, rode him, and loved that stellar animal that mesmerized Depression-ridden America in the mid-to-late thirties.  No matter what others may say, there was only one Seabiscuit, and there is only one book to get on him-this one.  He may have been the greatest race horse the United States ever produced, bar none.<br />The author is a magnificent story-teller.  Except in Dick Francis novels (and he was a jockey) I have never read the stride-for-stride descriptions of horse races that the author here discribes.  You actually hold your breath as you read the passages, and you end up reading them so fast to see who wins, you have to go back and reread them so as not to miss anything.  Miss Hillebrand is one of the three best authors I have ever read, and she has captured the spirit of her horse, those who were closest to him, and the spirit of the times in this very well-done book.  I certainly hope she continues to write, and I will look forward to her next effort with great anticipation.  This is one of the best books of this or any other year.<br />This is one of the great horse stories of all time, and if you don't read it, you are missing out on both a literary treat, a great American saga, and a first-rate read that is impossible to put down.  If you love horses and stories about them, or just love a great read, this is the book for you.  It deserves the Pulitzer.at horse stories of all time, and if you don't read it, you are missing out on both a literary treat, a great American saga, and a first-rate read that is impossible to put down.  If you love horses and stories about them, or just love a great read, this is the book for you.  It deserves the Pulitzer.	2003-01-20
US	50174289	R38J2JXUNWHCME	1853672653	321958226	Gettysburg: An Alternate History	Books	5	8	10	N	N	Once Again, Into the Breach, Dear Friends...	I am not a fan of alternate history.  This book, however, has definitely changed my mind. The only thing a reader has to watch out for, though, is that the further you get in this excellent book, the more realistic it becomes, and you have to make sure you keep in touch with reality.<br />I thoroughly emjoyed this book.  It is highly readable, the scenarios as they play out are highly believable, and the author skillfully weaves a tale that immediately grabs the readers interest.  I found myself thinking 'too bad it didn't happen this was' as that most tragic of wars would have been shortened by almost two years and so many lives saved in the bargain.  So much for wishful thinking.<br />I especially liked the way in which the author brought in characters that weren't players in the actual battle, such as 'Uncle John' Sedgwick and Captain Ulric Dahlgren, both of whom would be killed in action in 1864.<br />Finally, the ambush and capture of the ambulance and escort for the wounded Robert E. Lee was superbly done.<br />Peter Tsouras has woven an intricate, highly believable tale blending fact and fiction to deliver a smash hit piece of alternate history that should be on the bookshelf of every Civil War enthusiast.<br />This book is highly recommended.	2002-05-31
US	50174289	R3JSRW5YYPXLZ0	291390324X	604485324	Officers and Soldiers of The French Imperial Guard: The Foot Soldiers, 1804-1815	Books	5	15	15	N	Y	La Garde Imperiale	This is an excellent introduction to the troupes a pied of Napoleon's Imperial Guard.  It is not meant as a definitive study, but it does cover the foot troops (infantry, artillery, supporting services, pupilles) of the Guard quite thoroughly.  Using computer generated graphics that appear in the books of FG Hourtoulle and produced by Histoire et Collections, it is an astonishing achievement in the presentation of the myriad regiments that made up the Guard at its height.<br />It has a few minor errors on the first go round, such as not giving the Fusiliers-Grenadiers queue's like the Old Guard infantry, which the regiment earned for valiant service.  however, the overall impact of the volume more than makes up for it.<br />The references used include Rousselot, Rigo, and Michel Petard, all quite reliable and the booklet is logically laid out.  I thoroughly enjoyed this volume and will use it often as a quick reference.  I bought it sight unseen, taking a gamble and this time came out on the winning end.  This volume is highly recommended and it is also recommended that it be used with John Elting's superb Napoleonic Uniforms, Volume II, as well as any and all Rousselot plates you can get your hands on.  This booklet will be especially useful for wargamers and figure painters and it is highly recommended.<br />There will be a second volume on mounted troops.	2002-05-31
US	50174289	R247WXCL3H0R8J	0815411391	418073771	The Final Invasion: Plattsburgh, the War of 1812's Most Decisive Battle	Books	3	21	22	N	Y	'Once More into the Breach...'	While the author's thesis may be arguable, the evidence he presents is not. At this point in the War of 1812, nearly every action fought was decisive to the American cause. The War of 1812 undoubtedly the war in which the US was most unprepared to enter and fight. The military incompetence of both the Jefferson and Madison administrations, coupled with a foreign policy that was none too bright, nearly doomed the infant United States. The virulent hostility displayed towards a standing army and navy by both administrations, and the inability to prepare for a major war, condemned the United States to early defeat. Luckily for the US, competent commanders emerged from the crucible of combat to fight a well-earned draw with the British. This book is the story of such commanders and a decisive victory won against long odds by American land and naval forces in 1814 along the Canadian frontier.<br />The author presents the situation in a simple, straight forward manner, having done excellent research on the subject, to the extent of uncovering new material in a forgotten collection which clearly demonstrates both the long odds faced by the Americans and how much importance the British placed on this invasion of the United States from Canada. This alone makes this book valuable to all students of the period. This may not be the best book available on the one of the War of 1812's battles, but it is undoubtedly one which adds decisively to our collective knowledge of this particular campaign and what was at stake for the United States in the summer and fall of 1814.<br />There are some minor errors in the illustrations which are moderately distracting. There is one picture of US Marines of the War of 1812 identified as US Army, and a picture of the USS Constitution vs HMS Guerriere mislabeled as part of the naval battle on Lake Champlain. While this is a little disturbing, it does not distract from the text or lessen the value of the book in general.<br />This book is recommended, as it can take its place among other recent valuable books on the subject.nded, as it can take its place among other recent valuable books on the subject.	2001-11-08
US	50174289	R3IUT0ER757V94	0313310629	804643949	The Emperor's Friend: Marshal Jean Lannes (Contributions in Military Studies)	Books	5	20	34	N	N	'A swordsman when I found him; a Paladin when I lost him'	Jean Lannes was one of the most talented of the French marshalate that served Napoleon and undoubtedly one of the most underrated.  Starting as a lowly subaltern in a home-grown infantry unit from his native district, he grew into a thoughtful, aggressive, and intelligent corps commander who always did more than his assigned duty.  He improved throughout his career, taking time out each day for professional study, learning to control a murderous temper, and was completely loyal, though also completely outspoken, to Napoleon.  Blunt, loyal, and at times thoroughly uncombed (as when he told the traitorous foreign minister, Talleyrand, that he was nothing by a 'silk stocking full of [human excrement] to his face), he was also one of the leading soldiers of his day and contributed mightily to the success of French arms.  His early death from wounds received in action at Essling in 1809 immeasurable hurt the Grande Armee, and the subsequent promotion of three generals of division to the marshalate at the end of that compaign prompted the army to dub them 'Lannes small change.'<br />In this new biography of Jean Lannes, author Margaret Chrisawn has hit the proverbial nail on the head.  Blunt and outspoken as her topic, she has written one of the best, if not the best, biographies of one of Napoleon's generals that this reviewer has ever read.  Thoroughly researched and documented, this book belongs on the bookshelf of every Napoleonic historian and enthusiast, and is definitely in the front rank of Napoleonic scholarship.<br />The author has captured the tone and spirit of the times and of her subject.  Accurate and anecdotal (as when she quotes one of Lannes' neighbors who saw him as a general during the course of the wars on a return home, she still referred to him as a 'little twerp'), it is a lively account of one of the thorough roughnecks who made up the Grande Armee, yet does carefully recount how he continually strove to improve himself.<br />The author has also unearthed new material from extensive research in France and for a time stayed in Lannes' home district in France and in his hometown, tracing his descendants to get a feel for her character, both as a soldier and as a man.  There is much personal material in this excellent volume, more than is generally expected in a biography of this period in history.  The book definitely has more than its share of a 'whiff of grapeshot', yet paints Lannes as an entirely human person, and lets you know what and who he was.<br />Lannes is a thoroughly complex character, both admirable and mysterious.  Typically, he exemplifies the men from varied backgrounds and who made up the top rank of the Grande Armee, those who actually, and quite literally, found a baton in their knapsacks.  Lannes' relationship with Napoleon is carefully reconstructed here, being both loyal and tumultuous.  His two interesting marriages, along with the character of the women he married, is also carefully recounted and is one of the areas in the book where new material has come to light because of the author's dedication to her subject.  She writes as if she knew the man personally, and perhaps she really does, having walked in his footsteps in Europe.  If other historians were as careful and meticulous as she, Napoleonic scholarship would reach a new high across the board.<br />The author paints a colorful picture of this most colorful of generals.  She also carefully lays out a career that was just reaching its apex when he was killed.  The conclusion of the book is interesting, and, in my opinion, most accurate.  The author believes that Lannes would have made a definite impact in Napoleon's favor had he lived, a sentiment with which this reviewer heartily concurs.  The author is a careful historian,  skillfully weaving her tale of personal life and derring-do,  and, although she admires her subject, she is also very critical of him and this shows in her narrative of both his professional and personal life.<br />This book is a keeper.  It is a joy to read and is high quality, reliable reference material.  The author with this first volume to her credit has taken her place with other Napoleonic historians of the first rank and we should all be looking forward to her next effort with great anticipation.life.<br />This book is a keeper.  It is a joy to read and is high quality, reliable reference material.  The author with this first volume to her credit has taken her place with other Napoleonic historians of the first rank and we should all be looking forward to her next effort with great anticipation.	2001-10-16
US	50174289	R1QT1CM9ZW8VHR	1853674540	296072078	With Napoleon In Russia	Books	5	4	4	N	N	With the Wurttemberg Artillery in Russia...	With Napoleon in Russia by Wilhelm Faber du Faur, translated and edited by Jonathan North is one of the best memoirs of the ill-fated Russian campaign of 1812.  This version is magnificent in that there are 93 full color paintings by the author, in addition to the written narrative, an eye-witness memoir of the campaign. This memoir is a gold mine of information, and covers it from muzzle to butt plate.<br /><br />Faber du Faur was a lieutenant in the W&uuml;rttemberg artillery assigned to Ney's III Corps, in the W&uuml;rttemberg 25th Division.  He was with the Grande Armee from the first, crossing the Nieman with his battery, through the long march to Moscow, fighting at Smolensk and Valutino, and on to Borodino.  In Moscow, he saw all the bitterness of the fire (deliberately set by the half-insane mayor of the city before the French came in), the helpless plight of the Russian civilians, and the beginnings of the great and terrible retreat.  He chronicles the dissolution of the army along its route of march out of Russia, and all the horror of the crossing of the Berezina.<br /><br />He also notes with pride the successes the Grande Armee achieved, terming several of them 'glorious', as well as the problems encountered both on the way in and the retreat out of Russia.  He also notes how the remnants of the Grande Armee fought their way out of the trap at the Berezina, the stern, greatly respected Eble building his bridges as the army fought its way through Tshitshagov's army on the other side of the river.<br /><br />Faber du Faur's anecdotes and narrative are fascinating.  Describing an artillery fight outside the walls of Smolensk, he describes the ricochet fire of the Russian artillery and how it was successfully dodged by the W&uuml;rttemberg gunners.  What amazed them, and that hadn't been taken into account, was, because they had the city walls behind them, the roundshot bounced off the walls and came back at them, causing some casualties.  The narrative of the W&uuml;rttemberg infantry fairly rescuing Murat and defeating the Russian cavalry at Borodino is dramatic and lively.  The color plates that accompany these two descriptions are among the best of the collection.<br /><br />The author's depiction of the French and allied troops is interesting.  The French infantry is pictured in the pre-1812 uniforms, settling that long argument, and his depiction of horses and gun teams is also excellent, the detail of the horse harness particularly noteworthy.  Two other interesting pictorials are of great interest.  Napoleon is pictured no less than four times, and in no picture is he painted as being stout.  That flies in the face of conventional wisdom, and Faber du Faur doesn't seem to be one to flatter unnecessarily.  The other interesting picture is of a carabinier in campaign uniform, which is light blue instead of white, which was the undress uniform.<br /><br />The paintings pull no punches, nor does the narrative.  Losses are always described as heavy and debilitating (the death of the able, respected Gudin of Davout's I Corps is mentioned at the Battle of Valutino).  The more gruesome side of warfare, death and civilian suffering, are also pictured throughout the text, the pictures of the aftermath of Borodino being particularly gruesome.<br /><br />Another item is of great interest.  In one of the paintings of the fighting in and around Smolensk there is an excellent rendering of troops fighting in skirmish order.  The infantry are fighting in pairs, their officer and his drummer behind them controlling the action.  This is textbook open order fighting and is interesting as both an observation and a testament.<br /><br />This version of Faber du Faur's memoir is a true tour de force, and one that will remain a standard reference for years to come. It belongs on the bookshelves of all historians, wargamers, and modellers, as well as all students of this fascinating period.  This volume has added greatly to our knowledge of the period and it is one of the best books on the Russian campaign available.  This volume is enthusiastically recommended.d and it is one of the best books on the Russian campaign available.  This volume is enthusiastically recommended.	2001-09-07
US	50174289	RBOLB74MXP4H1	0275929361	147209946	The Enlightened Soldier: Scharnhorst and the Militarische Gesellschaft in Berlin, 1801-1805	Books	5	11	13	N	N	The Reformers	Scharnhorst, the Hanoverian officer who transferred to the Prussian service, bringing with him new ideas of professionalism, excellence, and the education of officers, was one of the guiding lights in Prussia after their catastrophic defeat by Napoleon and his terrible Grande Armee, that, in three weeks of marching, fighting, and pursuit, destroyed the old Prussian Army of Frederick the Great.<br />This excellent volume, however, is not of the reform period, nor does it chronicle the decisive campaign of 1806.  What it does tell us, is of Scharnhorst's efforts to institutionalize excellence in the Prussian army, especially its officer corps, and to move it into the era of modern warfare as exemplified by Napoleon and the French experience in the Wars of the Revolution.<br />Scharnhorst, as a new lieutenant colonel with a new patent of nobility, launched into the old ideas of Prussia's methods of waging war, and gathered about him like-minded souls that saw the shortcomings of the Prussian system and wanted to improve the army, especially the officer corps that was dominated by Junkers, the landed Prussian aristocracy that thought it their right to provide the army with its officer corps.  To that end, Scarnhorst established the Militarische Gesellschaft, or Military Society, in Berlin.  While not a school, it did become a think tank, and most of its members went on to become members of the revamped and reorganized Prussian General Staff, which was attempting to come into the modern world of the nineteenth century, based on the French staff example.<br />Before 1806 there was only partial success, Scharnhorst meeting opposition from most of the older generals and many of his peers.  Still, there was success.  Many papers and studies were published, including a noteworthy one by Scharnhorst on the Marengo Campaign of 1800, which noted the reforms in organization, tactics, leadership, and staff functioning that were being employed by the French.  It also noted the numerous shortcomings of the Austrian Army.<br />This is a valuable work for any understanding of what the Prussian Army, or rather, certain of its members, were trying to do in the rough days before 1806, and in the even rougher ones after.  Based on much primary German sources, including Scharnhorst's personal papers, it is a necessary work for both the study and understanding of the period, and it places the nucleus of the responsibility for the Prussian reforms squarely on Scharnhorst's shoulder, where they evidently belong.  This is a necessary work for any student of the period and is very highly recommended.rous shortcomings of the Austrian Army.<br />This is a valuable work for any understanding of what the Prussian Army, or rather, certain of its members, were trying to do in the rough days before 1806, and in the even rougher ones after.  Based on much primary German sources, including Scharnhorst's personal papers, it is a necessary work for both the study and understanding of the period, and it places the nucleus of the responsibility for the Prussian reforms squarely on Scharnhorst's shoulder, where they evidently belong.  This is a necessary work for any student of the period and is very highly recommended.	2001-07-04
US	50174289	R2RCLVI1GJ2VIN	1853674524	218662226	The War of Independence : The British Army in North America 1775-1783	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Those Damned Rebels!	This valuable volume, which is an extract from the much larger, authoritative, multi-volume history of the British Army by Sir John Fortescue, is a much-welcome addition to the published literature on the subject.  Too often, the British Army in North America during the War of the Revolution is seen as the villain, when in reality they were here doing their duty as they saw it, attempting to put down a rebellion in Crown possessions.  With a forward by noted historian John Shy, an authority on the period, this handy volume is fair, balanced, informative, and presents a picture of a much-maligned army that fought hard, endured and overcame many hardships campaigning is a hostile environment, and maintained both their outstanding combat reputation and their dignity.<br />There is a dearth of accurate information on the British army in the United States, both because the War of the Revolution is upstaged, unfairly in my opinion, by the much more popular Civil War, and because of that war in general, and the British Army in particular, being ignored by many current historians.  This book neatly fills a very large portion of that void.  The British Army becomes a living, breathing entity in this book, and the author is no mere chest-thumper.  He casts a cold eye on the mistakes the British made, both at the governmental level and on campaign.  He is hard on his countrymen, and gives the devil, ie the Americans and the Continental Army and its commanders, their just due.  This book is a necessary addition to any serious library or study to be done on the Revolution, and cannot be done without.<br />Greenhill once again is at the forefront of military history publication.  They have done us all a great service, and if this book is not in your collection, you are missing out both on an historic treat, and a true classic of historical writing.	2001-06-20
US	50174289	R16TCT4LABTUKM	1853673900	166332589	The Greenhill Dictionary Of Military Quotations	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Words of Wisdom	Greenhill has done it again, giving us a superb volume that is of immense help to researchers, historians, and history buffs.  Edited by Peter Tsouras, and enlarging his original work, Warrior's Words, this exhaustive, interesting, and most useful volume gives us insight into such well-known great commanders and leaders as George Washington, Napoleon, the Duke of Wellington, George Patton, and Norman Schwartzkopf, as well as lesser known professionals and masters of the art of war as Turenne, Folard, Lloyd, Belisarius, Xenophon, and Scharnhorst.<br />The scope of the volume is immense, from earliest recorded history to the present day.  Flipping through the numerous categories, such as morale, chief of staff, loyalty and myriad others, reading the recorded wisdom of those who have hefted spear and shield, sword and buckler, shield and pilum, pike and musket, and musket and bayonet on battlefields from ancient Troy to Kuwait and Iraq.  Each quotation is documented and the entire volume is a thorough study of both quotations and the minds of those who spoke the words.<br />This book is vital to the study of military history.  It is logically arranged, the quotes are pertinent both to historian and today's military professionals, and is loaded with interesting information and interesting, snap-shot glimpses into the minds of the authors, sometimes revealing their character.<br />I especially enjoyed the dedication from LtCol Tsouras, to the US Marine Corps, referring to them as the 'velociraptors in an age of sheep' and 'America's touchstone of valor.'  In my opinion, he hit the nail on the proverbial head.  As one who wore the Marine Corps uniform in both peace and war, my hat is off to you, LtCol Tsouras, and thanks for the compliments.  That, and your excellent effort with this book, speaks volumes for your character and knowledge.  Well done.<br />If you don't own this book, you are cheating yourself of an immense opportunity and intellectual treat.  We all owe LtCol Tsouras and Greenhill a very large vote of thanks.ol Tsouras and Greenhill a very large vote of thanks.	2001-06-20
US	50174289	R2SCTYKQ8M7KK9	0385041675	623272056	The Army of the Potomac: Glory Road	Books	5	6	6	N	N	'The Shattered Thunderbolt'	This second book in Catton's three volume study of the Army of the Potomac is, in my opinion, the best of the three.  The reason it is the best is that it covers in epic detail, the climactic Battle of Gettysburg in one of the best treatments in print.  This book has it all-high drama and suspense, heros on both sides of the line, and an incredible sadness and feeling for the troops, so many of them left on bullet-swept fields, that you cannot get away from the inherent grief of the entire epic, something on the level of a Greek tragedy.<br />It's all there, along with Catton's unmatched personal anecdotes of the famous commanders who led, and died, with their troops during the three days of Gettysburg, the largest battle ever fought on the North American continent.<br />Colonel Cross of the 5th New Hampshire, mortally wounded in the Wheat Field, lamenting that he thought 'the boys would miss him'; Francis Barlow, critically wounded and left for dead on the first day of the fighting, and being cared for by Confederate general John B. Gordon; Confederate General Archer being captured by the Iron Brigade in the Railway Cut on the first day; 'Hancock the Superb' calmly riding his horse through the Confederate preparatory bombardment before Pickett's doomed charge; the epic fight on Little Round Top, chamberlain and the 20th Maine on the left, and Hazlett's immortal battery of the 5th US Artillery, gotten to the summit by the superhuman exertions of both man and horse;  the doomed, magnificent 1st Minnesota in its successful and fatal charge on the second day.  The legendary Iron Brigade sweeping forward, blunting the Confederate assault on the first day, sustaining almost 70% casualties and not whimpering over the fact; finally that unsung hero, and probably the best artilleryman the United States ever produced, Henry Jackson Hunt, who swore to his dying day that if he had his way against Pickett, no Confederate infantryman would have got across that long, deadly mile of open ground to the famed Clump of Trees.<br />This is the sweep, majesty, and sorrow of the greatest test the United States has ever had to endure.  The men of the Army of the Potomac come alive in these pages, and it is a fitting tribute to those who saved the Republic.of open ground to the famed Clump of Trees. <br />This is the sweep, majesty, and sorrow of the greatest test the United States has ever had to endure.  The men of the Army of the Potomac come alive in these pages, and it is a fitting tribute to those who saved the Republic.	2001-06-18
US	50174289	R25CAS5WI57SDW	0226136248	732561949	The Revolution Remembered: Eyewitness Accounts of the War for Independence (Clements Library Bicentennial Studies)	Books	4	16	16	N	N	Old Soldiers Never Die...	This is a collection of memoirs of Revolutionary War veterans based on their pension claims after the war was over.  It is a valuable resource and the author has done a very credible job in assembling them in one volume for easy use.  They are assembled with a short biography on the author of the account, and some of the accounts are very lively and cover such topic as the apprehension of Major John Andre in conjunction with Benedict Arnold's treason, Arnold's epic march on Canada, recollections of the battles of Brandywine and Germantown, and various reminiscences of the brutal warfare in the Carolinas.  A word of caution when using pension accounts as references is in order here.  They were generally written long after the instances took place and were submitted to seek the award of long-promised pensions that the veterans were undoubtedly due.  All of us old soldiers have a prediliction for 'remembering with advantages.'  It is one of the 'hazards' of military service, especially prolonged military service.  Therefore, these accounts need to be matched against other first-hand accounts which were more recently written down after the event, such as Captain Robert Kirwood's Journal and Order Book.  Relying mainly or solely on pension records for research and reliablility is a road filled with traps and pitfalls.  Still this volume is highly recommended.	2001-06-17
US	50174289	R38EC4PRSFGHXK	0452010780	766840884	Voices of 1776: The Story of the American Revolution in the Words of Those Who Were There	Books	5	8	11	N	N	Telling the Tale	This excellent volume is yet another compendium of primary source material coupled with the excellent commentary and summaries by the author.  It is enlightening, accurate, lively, and just a plain good read.  It is also an excellent research resource for further study of the period.<br />The war is covered through a continuous drum roll of accounts of the participants, ranging from a lively description of a hanging, which, failing the first time because of a faulty rope, the unfortunate party was 'launched into eternity' on the second go round, through the accurate description of the worthless militia that 'ran like a torrent' at the first clash at Camden in 1780, leaving the stalward Maryland and Delaware Continentals to slug it out alone and outnumbered under their respected commander, Baron de Kalb, who, after finally falling with his eleventh wound of the action, saw his faithful Continentals ground to destruction by overwhelming numbers of enemy infantry and cavalry.  Finally, in one of the best quotes in the book, a Virginia officer saw and heard Washington relieve Lee at Monmouth, in the midst of the retreat, and that the Commander-in-Chief 'swore till the leaves shook on the trees' and that the language used on Lee was both 'charming' and 'delightful.'  It is also noted that the Virginia officer himself was a master of the profane.<br />What this volume does provide is an authentic record of the men who fought and won the Revolution, through incredible hardship and long odds.  What they won can be captioned simply by what a British officer told a Quaker in Philadelphia, 'You have got a hell of a fine country here.'<br />We should all take that comment to heart.  Reading this book will give the reader a renewed aprreciation both for what we have and what these soldiers and statesmen wrougt by their dedication and sacrifice.  This book is highly recommended.	2001-06-17
US	50174289	R37SW329P126BG	0595000975	672193320	From Savannah to Yorktown: The American Revolution in the South	Books	4	11	11	N	N	The Long Road Back	The southern campaigns of the Revolution, starting with the disastrous defeat at Camden in August 1780 and culminating in Greene's successful containment of the British in the seaports of Charleston and Savannah.  Greene never won an engagement, but never lost a campaign.  In many ways he was the American Turenne, relentlessly campaigning through the Carolinas, respected and feared by his enemies, diligently followed by his disciplined, intrepid, and indefatigable Continentals, and served by a talented, tough group of subordinates such as Robert Kirkwood, Otho Williams, William Washinton, John Howard, and Edward Carrington.  It was there, in the humid south, that the Revolution was won.  It was the mauling given the British at Guilford Couthouse in March 1781, so soon after Camden, that drove Cornwallis to the decision to go into Virginia and to Yorktown.  In that alone, the campaign was decisive.<br />Lumpkin tells the story with wit, vigor, relentlessness, but not a few errors, which are minor.  It is well-illustrated (I especially liked the picture of a member of Lee's Legion done by Clyde Risley-one of my favorite military artists), and the appendices are very helpful.  In some areas of smaller detail, the book should be used with caution, but if used in conjunction with Wright's Continental Army and Ward's War of the Revolution, it is a reliable reference, a good story, and gives these long-forgotten campaigns a deserved look and the men who conducted the war in this theater long overdue recognition.	2001-06-17
US	50174289	R3F0LZ22MQ2H63	1557509662	26940982	To the Shores of Tripoli: The Birth of the U.S. Navy and Marines (Bluejacket Books)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Over the Hills, and Very Far Away...	This is a slam-bang account of the first overseas campaign waged by the United States.  With a new, expert little Navy, and an even smaller Marine Corps, the young United States, after great success against the Revolutionary French Navy in the Quasi-War, the cocky country, fed up with foreign blackmail and extortion, sends a squadron to the Mediterranean to deal with the problem.  This is adventure and high deeds at its best.  Naval historian ABC Whipple is definitely up to the challenge here and he has produced a winner of a tale and a book.<br />All of the elements of high suspense are here:  daring raids into dark harbors, ships exploding in the night from unknown causes, the roar and rush of boarders from gun deck to gun deck, dedicated seamen and Marines sacrificing themselves for their comrades, the mystery of the Arab world, and the double dealing of what was essentially a group of pirate states, a daring march across the North African desert with a motley army of Arabs, Greek mercenaries, and 'a few Marines' who, at the end of their journey launch a neck-or-nothing assault against a fortified city and take it, raising the US flag, for the first time, 'over a fortress of the Old World.'<br />This is history at its best and this book rekindled an interest in the young US Navy, which has blossomed into a mini-collection of excellent books on the subject, of which this was the first.  This book should be read by everyone with an interest in US history.  A great read, an excellent book, and superb history.	2001-06-17
US	50174289	RKJRPWTMXTUNH	0671675621	5679789	Patriots: The Men Who Started the American Revolution	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Roll of Honor	This large, very interesting volume has its chapters divided up among events, such as the so-called Boston Massacre, the Battle of Bunker Hill, Saratoga, and Yorktown; main protagonists such as Otis, Adams, Washington, and Jefferson; and themes, such as 'trial' (of the British troops who fired on the crowd in Boston and being defended by Otis and Adams, mainly getting acquitted), 'Betrayal', outlining Arnold's infamous treason, 'Tea' about the tax and the dumping, and 'Farewell' which poignantly tells the sad story of Washington's departure, and disbanding, of the Continental Army that served so long and enduring, the army which he forged and led through eight terribly long years of repeated defeats, hopelessness, and final victory.<br />The methodology of the author and the organizaton of the work are in itself unique; the level of scholarship is very high and very well-written.  It is useful both as a reference work and as a good read.  It is easy to follow, doesn't bog down, and is packed with information.  It belongs on the bookshelf of all and sundry, Revolutionary enthusiast or not.  It is a well-told tale of our beginnings as a nation, being handed a legacy that is a hard act to follow.  These worthy gentlemen may truly be America's 'greatest generation.	2001-06-17
US	50174289	R1WDRZ9EVN1FOM	0380715449	177646975	Redcoats and Rebels: The American Revolution Through British Eyes	Books	4	6	8	N	N	The Largest Expeditionary Force Sent From England...	I bought this volume on the internet without first looking at it expecting it to be in the same format as the excellent Rebels and Redcoats by Scheer and Rankin.  I had never read a book by Christopher Hibbert before, but I figured it was named in the same manner as the Scheer/Rankin volume there was nothing to worry about.  When I received it, and found out it wasn't, I was extremely disappointed.<br />However, after starting to thumb through the book, I became very interested, both in content and in Hibbert's excellent writing style.<br />This volume is jam-packed with interesting and useful information and gives great insight to the British side of the war, one which is generally overlooked by American historians and general reading public.  It also lets us know two things:  how close the British came to winning at various times during the war, and that after the French Alliance in 1777, North American became just another theater in yet another world war between France and England.<br />I highly recommend this book just because it gives an accurate picture of the 'other side', and the level of scholarship and research is high.  It is good, solid history and deserves a much wider readership.  It isn't Scheer and Rankin, but it's close.	2001-06-15
US	50174289	R2M6580K11YFVB	0306806207	156321039	The Spirit Of Seventy-six: The Story Of The American Revolution As Told By Participants	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Primary Source Material	Compendiums of primary source material are of infinite value to those who wish to seriously study any period of history.  The authors of this immense work have done us all a great service in presenting a colorful, accurate, and representative picture of the American Revolution by those who were there.  As a primary source, this book is invaluable.<br />It isn't a book I would pick to read for pleasure on a cold, rainy night in front of the fireplace.  In my opinion, it is more of a reference work that will give immense aid to researchers, historians, reenactors and hobbyists/enthusiasts of the period.  Conversely, this serious work is not a dull encyclopedia, but a collection of recollections from those who fought to establish the country we call the United States.  This book is both highly recommended and is a must to be on the bookshelf of any serious student of the period.	2001-06-15
US	50174289	R27LEYJZMTN9XI	0811701980	957892537	Battle of Paoli (Stackpole Military History Series)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	'No Flint' Grey	This is the type of military history that makes someone sit up and take notice.  Superbly researched and carefully written, it is an excellent account of the British night attack against Anthony Wayne's bivouacked troops at Paoli, Pennsylvania.<br />Attacking at night with the bayonet, the British task force under General 'No Flint' Grey (called such as he reportedly had the troops take the flints out of their muskets so there wouldn't be any accidental discharges of their weapons), hit the American encampment, overran the pickets and outposts, effectively silencing them, and proceeded to wreak havoc on the relaxed American units.<br />Using plenty of primary source material the author has given us a rousing account of one of the most enigmatic fights of the Revolution and has demolished myths about this 'massacre.'  In doing so, he has done us all a great service.<br />'Mad Anthony' must have learned from this experience, for his later bayonets only assault on the British fortified position at Stony Point New York, below West Point on the Hudson River, had its dash and was just as effective, albeit on a much smaller scale.  He was deadly serious in this action, threatening with death anyone who fired before it was time to do so.  Perhaps Thomas McGuire can have that as his next project-that or the bayonet assaults, one American and one French, against redoubts nine and ten at Yorktown at the end of the war.  Mimicry is the greatest form of flattery, and the American Continentals learned their lesson well.<br />This book is highly recommended	2001-06-15
US	50174289	R2KF7KHS31I1I4	0306803070	39208991	Rebels And Redcoats: The American Revolution Through The Eyes Of Those That Fought And Lived It (Da Capo Paperback)	Books	5	29	32	N	N	The Shot Heard Round The World...	If a book on the American Revolution has the names Scheer and Rankin on it, buy it.<br />This superb work by two noted historians tells the entire tale of the Revolution, interpersed with myriad first hand accounts from those who marched and fought the breadth of a continent and defeated the greatest military power in the world at the time, albeit 'with a little help from out friends.'<br />I have found this volume extremely helpful in doing my own historical research, and have recommended it many times to my students.  It is clear and concise, informative, and is an excellent read.  It is one of the best books in print on the American Revolution, and is easily also one of the most accurate representations of the period that has ever been written.  Accurate, compelling, with a definite epic story to tell, it is invaluable for all students of the period and will stand the test of time, as it already has.	2001-06-15
US	50174289	R2O79ODW7XN1FH	0684175002	85884320	American Army Life	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	You're in the Army, NOW!	Military historian John Elting has penned an interesting volume here, painting a picture of what it was like to serve in American and United States army units from colonial times to the present day.<br />It is not military history in the strictest sense-there are no battles chronicled here, no hair-raising adventures against Indian or Briton, Chinese or North Korean.  What this book does is paint a picture of what it was like to be a soldier in the ranks, or an officer, or even a camp follower, the the wars in which Americans have fought.  The colonial and Revolutionary War period are covered completely, with interesting anecdotes on where Americans served, especially during the French and Indian War.  One interesting fact brought out was that the 'British' regiments that served in North America enlisted so many Americans that half their strength was American.<br />Each chapter is followed by a plausible vignette pertinent to the period, bringing out interesting facts about the units and the men who formed them.  Continental Army regiments at the end of the war in the south were proficient and professional, though small.  The Mexican spy company that fought for the Americans in Mexico in 1847 was proficient, expert, and had prices on their heads if caught by the Mexicans.  American soldiers were for years treated as second-class citizens by their fellow citizens, the 'dogs and soldiers keep off the grass' of Kipling fame was more than true.  The US Army that fought the Indian Wars set up and ran the National Park system before handing it over to the Department of the Interior as a going concern, and, more often than not, helped the Indians by policing the plains and keeping land-hungry settlers at bay and out of Indian lands.<br />All in all this is a must-have volume for the serious student of the US Army.  This is an excellent adjunct for the definitive work on the subject by Russell Weigley, The History of the United States Army.  Where the latter is dry and fact-filled, this volume adds color, realism, and the human element.  The author, a soldier for over thirty years and an associate professor at West Point for eleven, met and knew some of the men of the older, tougher horse soldier army, and this volume reflects that knowledge and the respect due the troopers who patrolled the endless plains and deserts that eventually became the United States.ct-filled, this volume adds color, realism, and the human element.  The author, a soldier for over thirty years and an associate professor at West Point for eleven, met and knew some of the men of the older, tougher horse soldier army, and this volume reflects that knowledge and the respect due the troopers who patrolled the endless plains and deserts that eventually became the United States.	2001-06-15
US	50174289	R2ZOSD68PQFVN9	0300021534	691276698	Diary of the American War: A Hessian Journal	Books	5	20	20	N	Y	Professionalism	Johann Ewald was acknowledged by the British for whom and with whom he fought in the American Revolution as one of the best light infantry officers (termed outpost officers) in their service.  A dedicated, trained professional from Hesse-Cassel, who was 'hired out' by his sovereign for the American War, he knew his job 'from muzzle to butt plate' and was an excellent leader of men, as well as a shrewd observer of what he saw.  Fortunately for us, he also wrote all of it down.<br />This book is one of the most valuable, if not the most valuable, memoirs of the period.  The petite guerre (little war), also called partisan warfare, of the period is of great importance in understanding the picture of the whole for the War of the Revolution.  The jagers that Ewald commanded were also some of the most deadly light infantry in the world at the time, and they were greatly feared by their American opponents.  Armed with short German hunting rifles and dressed in green and brown, they not only blended in with their surroundings, but they served in almost every action and battle of the war.<br />Ewald's direct, observant prose paints a vivid picture of the war, his British comrades, and his American opponents.  He respected the Americans, especially their officers' attempt at becoming more professional as the war progressed, exemplified by the military books and treatises they read, which Ewald saw from time to time as he came across captured officers' baggage.  he was amazed at the American attempts, which he noted were sadly lacking in his brother British officers.  He noted this with care.<br />Ewald ended up in the surrender at Yorktown and was eventually sent home to Germany.  His dedicated service service not being recognized by promotion by his sovereign, he resigned from the Hessian service, entered the Danish service, and ended up a general serving Napoleon in 1813.  An interesting career, a more than interesting individual, and a superb memoir.	2001-06-15
US	50174289	R1HL75RSWC356G	0786708336	420585482	Mammoth Book of Soldiers at War : Firsthand Accounts of Warfare from the Age of Napoleon	Books	5	12	12	N	N	First-Hand Accounts of Campaigning	This is a compendium of first hand accounts of campaigning and fighting during the Napoleonic period.  While it is only excerpts, those chosen are excellent and render a very good picture of both the soldiers and the times in which they lived and fought.  While it would be best, especially doing research, to have the entire diaries or memoirs of those mentioned in this volume, works of this nature are a great help to those who don't have the time or means to secure those priceless tomes.<br />The excerpts are either French or English, with one American memoir from the War of 1812, and include some old reliables such as Coignet, Marbot, and Mercer.  However, there are some that arent' seen too often, such as Marshal MacDonald's recollection of Wagram in 1809 (not always a reliable source), as well as Lejeune's story of the Great Retreat from Moscow (somewhat more reliable).  He reluctantly served as Marshal Davout's chief of staff during the Retreat, serving in his normal efficient manner, having been an aide-de-camp to the Grande Armee's chief of staff, Marshal Berthier, who didn't suffer fools gladly.<br />On the British side there is an excerpt from William Tomkinson's excellent memoir of the war in Spain, the bloody story of the stormings of Ciudad Rodrigo and Badajoz by William Graham of the famous Connaught Rangers, David Robertson's memoir of Egypt in 1801 and a rare glimpse of campaigning in northern Germany in 1813 by one of the few British units to participate in that campaign, the 73d Foot.  As a rare treat, there is a memoir from a Kentucky militia corporal, Samuel Stubbs, who enlisted at age 63 and served at Queenstown, Lundy's Lane, Fort Erie, and at the Battle of New Orleans.<br />Taken as a whole, this is an interesting, informative collection of memoirs and tall tales, that is as entertaining as it is valuable.  It is useful for both research and entertainment, and is a must for the historian, wargamer, and researcher.  The author has done us all a great service with this outstanding work.  It is highly recommendedreat service with this outstanding work.  It is highly recommended	2001-06-14
US	50174289	R5AW5WK9VT27O	0813329450	354665950	The Bayonets Of The Republic: Motivation And Tactics In The Army Of Revolutionary France, 1791-94 (History and Warfare)	Books	5	3	4	N	Y	Liberte, Egalite, Fraternite!	Despite the ready availability of material in print, very little is actually understood about the French tactical system that was developed, in both theory and practice, from the period beginning with the disastrous French defeat in the Seven Years' War until the advent of Napoleon as French head of state in 1799.  The system has been described as merely 'column versus line' and as the made-up term 'impulse tactics' in other volumes on the period.  Here, a case study has been done, and quite succinctly and successfully, by the author on the French Armee du Nord during the period 1793-1794.<br />The French Revolution, besides being a somewhat tumultuous experience for the French nation, was convulsive for the French army.  Inheriting a dispirited force from the ancien regime, with a good proportion of its officers deciding to emigrate, and commanded by thoroughly unwashed sans culottes, old Royalist officers who had courageously decided to stay at the risk of their own lives, and recently promoted sergeants and junior officers, these elements were infused with the 'levee en masse' with no time to train them into the steadiness demanded by the 1791 Reglement.  Undaunted, those in command, remembering the experiments between the two wars in the use of battalion columns and skirmisher swarms, reverted to this on the battlefield, finally hammering out victories over the armies of reaction and the kings.  This excellent volume chronicles the experiences of only one of the myriad revolutionary armies and its progress in the military art.  In those parameters what results is fascinating.<br />Officers tried diffeent methods of employing troops in open order; how to assault strong points; coordinate the operations of artillery and infantry on the battlefield; as well as setting up schools of instruction to better facilitate training before letting the troops loose on the battlefield.  What we see is a succession of experiments and trial and error, which ended up with a tactical system, if employed properly, would be extremely difficult to defeat.<br />This volume is highly recommended for all who are interested in this fascinating period.  Some of what Nord learned would later be incorporated into the tactics of the Napoleonic armies, cross fertilized with the knowledge and experience gained in different theaters and terrain by the other revolutionary armies and their commanders, culminating in the magnificent Grande Armee that marched away from the English Channel in August 1805 and ended up stabling its horses in every capitol of continetal Europe.cal system, if employed properly, would be extremely difficult to defeat.<br />This volume is highly recommended for all who are interested in this fascinating period.  Some of what Nord learned would later be incorporated into the tactics of the Napoleonic armies, cross fertilized with the knowledge and experience gained in different theaters and terrain by the other revolutionary armies and their commanders, culminating in the magnificent Grande Armee that marched away from the English Channel in August 1805 and ended up stabling its horses in every capitol of continetal Europe.	2001-06-14
US	50174289	R3QTFIWJHPKE0Q	0385043104	260143252	Mr Lincoln's Army	Books	5	6	7	N	N	The Great Mustering	Bruce Catton is still the dean of American military historians and the Civil War.  He tells his story with wit, verve, accuracy, and the feeling of having been there.  Unfortunately, like other great American historians who have passed on, such as John R. Elting, Frederick P. Todd, H. Charles McBarron, and Anne Brown, we won't see his like again.<br />In this marvelous first volume of his trilogy of the great, luckless, and hard-used Army of the Potomac, Catton tells the story of an army in search of a commander that can win with it.  After the first botched attempt at First Bull Run, the army gets a commander who knows how to organize and train them, Goerge McClellan.  What he cannot do, however, is lead them in combat.  McClellan doesn't have the killer instinct of a true independent commander, nor does he have the requisite moral character to send the army into the fire, accept the losses needed to win, and be done with it.  What he condemns his beloved army to is three years of defeats and heavy losses, punctuated by the few glorious moments, such as Gettysburg, where, despite the deficiencies of its many commanders, it fights on until final victory.<br />This volume tells of the growing and training of the Army of the Potomac, the heartbreak of the Peninsular Campaign, and the thrown away opportunity at Second Bull Run.  We meet famous units, such as the 5th New Hampshire, the immortal Iron Brigade of western regiments, the Irish Brigade under such regimental and brigade commanders as John Gibbon, Israel Richardson, Francis Barlow, Phil Kearney, and Grimes Davis.<br />Grimly enduring, faithful to the Republic, stolid in the defense and gallant in the attack, the Army of the Potomac, repeatedly defeated and badly led at the army level, comes back time and again to face its foe.  It is probably the worst led army in American history, but none have been more glorious in the sense that it never quit and gained enduring fame as the outfit that finally defeated Robert E. Lee.  This book can stand alone, or with its two companion volumes, Glory Road and A Stillness at Appomattox.  This is military history at its best.  All are highly recommended.ert E. Lee.  This book can stand alone, or with its two companion volumes, Glory Road and A Stillness at Appomattox.  This is military history at its best.  All are highly recommended.	2001-06-14
US	50174289	R3RBN8CSW5ALW3	0891415505	405035862	Summons of Trumpet: U.S.-Vietnam in Perspective	Books	5	13	16	N	N	Once More Into the Breach, Dear Friends...	This is a solid, no-nonsense history of the most divisive war in the history of the United States.  The author sets out in no uncertain terms what the war was fought for, how it was fought, the successes won, and the heartbreak of why the US ended its participation in the war.  The author also makes a solid case of how the war could have been, and in actuality was, won for the US on the battlefield.  Short-sighted and limp-wristed leadership from the National Command Authority left battlefield and local political successes in Vietnam, such as the huge victory in TET 1968, unexploited and incomplete.<br />This is the best one volume history of the war and should be read by all historians, military professionals, and students of the period.  It is a compelling history of much valor and many high deeds, and of a national policy that left the fighting men with one hand tied behind their backs fighting a skilled, tough enemy, and of an army that won 'all the big battles and most of the small ones.'  It may be the most underrated army the United States ever fielded.  It certainly was the most underappreciated both by its commanders and the population in general.<br />This book is highly recommended	2001-06-11
US	50174289	R128JZ6AHQO8EP	0837180929	297651850	History of the German General Staff, 1657-1945.	Books	3	12	13	N	N	The Great German General Staff	This is the standard study of the German General Staff and it has stood the test of time.  It is a solid history of this famous military organization, that has been made the bugaboo of much of Germany's twentieth century misdeeds, but was (is), in fact, just another army staff, albeit probably better trained both individually and as a group.<br />This work takes the reader from the beginnings in the seventeenth century through its rudimntary development and use under Frederick the Great, to its renovation and use after the reform of the Prussian army after Jena, and to its final form under the elder Moltke until its demise, after it sold its soul to Hitler by way of the infamous 'Hitler oath', at the end of World War II.<br />The story is fascinating, is great history, and the book is a good read.  It is easy to follow, the author's references are impeccable, and it is a thorough history of the general staff.  The weaknesses, though, tend to hurt to overall presentation and are at the beginning of the book.  The early, formative beginnings of the staff are actually glossed over, and there is little substantive information given for this period.  The critical portion of the development of the general staff, in my opinion, during the Napoleonic period, both before and after Jena debacle in 1806, are done too quickly, and the origins and influences for the staff, particularly the French ones used by Scharnhorst from 1800 onwards, are not chronicled in any detail, and there is only one brief reference to Napoleon's very capable chief of staff, Berthier, in the book.  Some of his early staff work and innovations were liberally borrowed by the Prussians, and this important influence by the first great chief of staff in modern military history is unfortunately overlooked.<br />However, this is an important work and is highly recommended.	2001-06-11
US	50174289	R3LQRG0LWK2TXV	0195002571	720036959	The Politics of the Prussian Army: 1640-1945	Books	5	7	8	N	N	A Sweeping, Detailed Account	This excellent volume was one of my textbooks in college, and I completely underestimated its importance for years.  Being deeply involved and interested in Napoleonic military history and the campaigns of the Grande Armee, I have again started to use this book as there is now a 'revisionist' (read 'excuse')school of Prussian history beginning to emerge, revolving around the disastrous, for the Prussians, Jena campaign of 1806. For this period, and indeed for the periods up to the end of World War II, this book is invaluable.<br />The author uses myriad German source material for his references, and the story he tells is accurate, lively, and riveting.  He knows his material, and his subject, and is unflinching in calling a spade a spade when necessary.  While I am only interested in those portions relating to the Napoleonic period and its immediate aftermath, students of the Prussian/German Army will find this book invaluable.<br />Craig's bona fides are impeccable and he writes with authority, verve, and accuracy.  His analysis of the Prussian Army's beginnings in the aftermath of the Thirty Years' War set the definition and trends for what the Prussian Army would become, something apart from the people of Prussia and an army supported by a dynastic state.  His demonstration of the effectiveness of the instrument under the Great Frederick, and of his policies, and those of his successors after the Seven Years' War, tell the tale of why is became nothing more than a 'parade ground facade', made up of half-foreign mercenary strength, which were two of the many reasons for its defeat and destruction by Napoleon and the Grande Armee in 1806.<br />The coverage of the Prussian reformers is also excellent, and dispels many myths, some of which unforunately are resurfacing under the guise of 'recent scholarship.'  The War of Liberation from Napoleon was in actuality a war of liberating whatever German territory Prussia could grab in the chaos of the aftermath of French hegemony in western Germany (they took the Rhineland, most of Westphalia, and about half of Saxony, keeping the Saxon king, Napoleon's ally, as a prisoner of war).  Additionally, force had to be used in Prussia to get the manpower required to fight the Grande Armee.  The end of the tale is also excellently told-that of how the reformers, so necessary to Prussian resurgence, were treated and eventually disposed of politically, the Prussian monarchy almost completely retrenching to pre-1806 'values.'<br />All in all this is an excellent volume for students and historians of the period or of the Prussian/German army in particular.  It is highly recommended.gemony in western Germany (they took the Rhineland, most of Westphalia, and about half of Saxony, keeping the Saxon king, Napoleon's ally, as a prisoner of war).  Additionally, force had to be used in Prussia to get the manpower required to fight the Grande Armee.  The end of the tale is also excellently told-that of how the reformers, so necessary to Prussian resurgence, were treated and eventually disposed of politically, the Prussian monarchy almost completely retrenching to pre-1806 'values.'<br />All in all this is an excellent volume for students and historians of the period or of the Prussian/German army in particular.  It is highly recommended.	2001-06-11
US	50174289	RAVIAGARWB3ZV	184176051X	657023177	The United States Army : 1812-1815 (Men-At-Arms Series, 345)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Gray Doom	This is an excellent book and reference for the American Army in the War of 1812, America's true 'forgotten war.'  The author, a recognized uniform authority and historian, has done an excellent job within the guidelines of the Osprey series and has produced a volume that should be owned by anyone with an interest in the War of 1812.<br />The color illustrations are excellently done, as well as accurate, chronicling an army of amateurs, both on the enlisted and the officer level, that, through defeat and hardship, grew into a professional force that held at bay, and defeated, 'Wellington's Invincibles', and saved the United States as an independent nation.  All of the combat arms are covered, rifle dress, summer and fatigue dress, as well as winter uniform and the various differences in uniform of the Regular infantry, due both to lack of regulation colored cloth and the various changes in uniform during the war.<br />The black and white illustrations, mostly of original uniform items, greatly aid the historian and researcher, and the text definitely shows that the author has done his homework.  Both primary and secondary sources are listed on the last page, demonstrating the depth of research that has gone into this valuable volume.  It is definitely a work of historic scholarship and not just a 'picture book.'<br />It should be noted that this book covers the Regulars, and not the militia or the better trained, uniformed, and disciplined volunteer militia.  Hopefully, the author will also do another Osprey covering these troops to round out the study.  This work is highly recommended and is both solid uniformology and military history.	2001-05-19
US	50174289	R2NHS7Q1M50W83	0670885517	700763528	The Battle of New Orleans: Andrew Jackson and America's First Military Victory	Books	1	26	42	N	N	Myths Perpetuated Yet Again	There has been much good scholarship that has come out on the War of 1812 in the last ten years or so.  John Elting's Amateurs, To Arms!, the excellent work of Canadian historian Donald Graves on the fighting on the Niagara frontier, as well as reliable histories on the siege of Fort Erie, the Battle of Sackett's Harbor, the Battle of Lake Erie, and the war on Lake Ontario.  Additionally, Henry Adams' The War of 1812, the definitive volume of the war, has recently been reprinted.  This recent volume on The Battle of New Orleans, however, is just not up to that standard, and perpetuates myths of that battle that have been put to rest by some of the above mentioned histories.  Now, they are rearing their ugly head again, after so much research and scholarship has been accomplished to find out the facts of the case.  In that respect, the author of this volume has done the history of the War of 1812 a great disservice.<br />Like the Revolution before it, the militia in the War of 1812 generally had a dismal record, yet the author seems to wallow in joy praising the 'citizen soldiers' who did so well at New Orleans.  The Tennessee and Kentucky Volunteers did perform well, but were not in the strictest sense militia.  The accomplishments of the regulars, both army and marines, he pushes to the background, although, especially in the night attack of 24 December, they incurred the most casualties.<br />For the battle itself on 8 January 1815, the author makes a point that American rifle fire was a deciding factor in the American victory, when it was the American artillery and the musket that defeated and outshot the British.  As John Elting succinctly states in Amateurs, To Arms!<br />'Though New Orleans has come down in American tradition as a victory for the Kentucky rifle, it was the American artillery that did most to crush the British attack.  Next was the smoothbore musket with which regulars and most of the Louisians, Kentucky, and Tennessee militia were armed.  Coffee's riflemen, being on the far left flank, were not heavily engaged.  In fact, the musket's higher rate of fire made it superior to the rifle for such fighting.'<br />Additionally, the author makes the ridiculous statement that New Orleans was 'America's first military victory' and that previous victories over the British such as Saratoga and Yorktown 'were simply surrenders, nothing more.'  Nothing could be further from the truth.  There had been American victories in the north against British regulars at Chippawa, Sackett's Harbor, Plattsburgh, Baltimore, the Thames, York, and Fort Erie, not to mention the strategic naval victories on Lake Erie and Lake Champlain.  There were famous victories in the Revolution too, besides Saratoga and Yorktown:  Cowpens, King's Mountain, and Greene's strategic victory in the Carolinas to name a few.  To make a statement such as this in what is supposed to be a military history is ludicrous.<br />Interestingly, neither John Elting's excellent history nor Henry Adams definitive work were used in the preparation of this volume.  Neither was Robin Reilly's Enemy at the Gates, which is also an excellent history of the New Orleans campaign.  In my opinion, not consulting them hurt this volume irreparably.<br />This volume is not recommended as there are more scholarly and accurate volumes available, such as those mentioned above.ffee's riflemen, being on the far left flank, were not heavily engaged.  In fact, the musket's higher rate of fire made it superior to the rifle for such fighting.' <br />Additionally, the author makes the ridiculous statement that New Orleans was 'America's first military victory' and that previous victories over the British such as Saratoga and Yorktown 'were simply surrenders, nothing more.'  Nothing could be further from the truth.  There had been American victories in the north against British regulars at Chippawa, Sackett's Harbor, Plattsburgh, Baltimore, the Thames, York, and Fort Erie, not to mention the strategic naval victories on Lake Erie and Lake Champlain.  There were famous victories in the Revolution too, besides Saratoga and Yorktown:  Cowpens, King's Mountain, and Greene's strategic victory in the Carolinas to name a few.  To make a statement such as this in what is supposed to be a military history is ludicrous.<br />Interestingly, neither John Elting's excellent history nor Henry Adams definitive work were used in the preparation of this volume.  Neither was Robin Reilly's Enemy at the Gates, which is also an excellent history of the New Orleans campaign.  In my opinion, not consulting them hurt this volume irreparably.<br />This volume is not recommended as there are more scholarly and accurate volumes available, such as those mentioned above.	2001-04-03
US	50174289	R1F3B2DHKFZM8G	1557501769	327237387	Captain Blakeley and the Wasp: The Cruise of 1814	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Clear For Action!	This little gem of a book is exactly what every enthusiast of the age of fighting sail is looking for: engaging characters, beautifully designed tall ships, and plenty of action.  It reads like a novel, is full of larger than life characters, and the ship to ship actions are better than anything you'll read in the novels of Alexander Kent, Richard O'Brien, and CS Forrester.<br />Captain Blakeley (his naval rank as commander of the USS Wasp, a sloop of war, was actually Master Commandant) is proclaimed by the author as the most accomplished US Navy captain in the War of 1812.  In his single cruise with the Wasp, he sank two British ships of war of near-equal strength in hull to hull fights and captured and destroyed a slew of merchantmen as he prowled the sea lanes.  He had been on successful cruises with the Enterprise and the Argus, and continued his professional successes on the newly built and commissioned USS Wasp, the last ship so named in the War of 1812.  Sadly, after her last victory, she sailed off into legend and was lost at sea from unknown causes, the families of the crew never knowing what happened to their loved ones.<br />This is a most valuable addition to the literature of the period and a definite must for the historian and enthusiast.  The author has done a masterful job here.  It is carefully researched, is a very quick read, as you can't put it down, and is accurate.  This book is highly recommended and I couldn't help thinking that it would make an outstanding motion picture.	2001-03-13
US	50174289	R2HTORPECWS3GJ	0811707024	745730402	Grape and Canister	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Action Front!	Artillery is undoubtedly the least understood of the combat arms.  It is an arm that requires the utmost skill from both the officers and enlisted men, as well as mere brute strength in handling their guns.  Serving the guns in combat, on campaign, as well as maintaining their ability to operate in all weathers and climates requires skill, dedication, and plain hard work.  They had all the problems a cavalry outfit had, multiplied three-fold.  Forage, blacksmithing, care of their animals, all had to be accomplished to be able to put the battery on the road to the rumbling guns.<br />Few authors have taken up the challenge to write about this challenging and exciting topic, but Naisawald, and his colleague Fairfax Downey, have painted a clear picture of what it was like to be an artilleryman in the Civil War in the books each has written.  This one by Naisawald is a masterpiece.<br />Painstakingly researched, consisely written, and presented in a format that is easy to follow, the author has presented us with a chronicle that has yet to be surpassed and has seldom been equalled.  The story of the artillery of the Army of the Potomac is one of frustration, glory, hard work, and ultimate success.  Their best day was undoubtedly the third day of Gettysburg, where they nearly defeated Pickett on their own (their commander, Henry J. Hunt swore to his dying day that if he not been forced to fire counterbattery missions to the Confederate bombardment, he would have had enough long range ammunition to do exactly that-seeing what his artilleymen did do, he was undoubtedly correct), a close second being their performance at the Battle of Antietam, where they literally blew the artillery of the Army of Northern Virginia off the battlefield.<br />These and other tales await the reader in this excellent volume.  It is merely for them to pick it up and read it.	2000-12-28
US	50174289	R150OT845X2ZQX	089029755X	797420427	The Twentieth Maine	Books	5	32	34	N	N	Bayonet!	This is one of the best regimental histories written about a Civil War outfit on either side.  It is also a story of high valor and drama, of lost youth and heavy, heartbreaking losses.  It is also the story of the maturing of a good man, Joshua Chamberlain, into a good soldier who does more than his assigned duty and ends the war with a general's stars, and more than one wound.<br />The regiment doesn't start with promise, however, and its first commander, Colonel Adelbert Ames, a hardened regular, is somewhat dismayed at his new command.  However, hard work and professionalism pay off, and the 20th Maine does evolve into 'a hell of a regiment.'<br />The payoff is at Gettysburg on the second day on the far left flank of the Army of the Potomac on a wooded hill known locally as Little Round Top.  Now commanded by the Lieutenant Colonel, Joshua Chamberlain (Ames being deservedly promoted to Brigadier General and brigade command), the regiment becomes the focus of the southern effort to capture Little Round Top and flank the Union Army.  If one man could lose the war in the afternoon, it was Chamberlain and his homespun regiment from Maine.<br />They rise to the challenge, at heavy loss to themselves, execute a bayonet charge down the hill after running out of ammunition, sweeping up 400 prisoners and saving the Union left flank.  It is the stuff legends are made of.<br />This is only one episode in this superb volume, and this book belongs in every Civil War collection.  It is written with wit, verve, and accuracy, and it stirs the soul that our country was fought for and saved by men such as these.	2000-12-28
US	50174289	R9U3V695Y2NGA	0805060987	320220687	The Winter Soldiers: The Battles for Trenton and Princeton	Books	5	27	28	N	N	You Could Track Them...by the Blood of Their Feet...	Trenton and Princeton were so critical to the success of the Revolution that the password for the Trenton operation was 'Victory or Death.'  Author and historian Richard Ketchum has captured this desperation in his excellent narrative of the campaign, along with the anguish, heartbreak, and jubilation that usually accompany military operations and battles lost and won.<br />A careful, methodical historian, Ketchum's books are all interesting and need to be read and reread.  This one is no exception.  Both sides are covered completely and fairly, and the personalities abound for us to ponder, shoake our heads at, or admire.<br />Washington was near-peerless in this campaign, from his battlefield leadership at Princeton, where his aide-de-camp shielded his eyes at what he thought was his chief's impending death, to the careful, almost desperate, planning for the daring river crossing of the ice-choked Delaware and the march to Trenton.  It is easy to dismiss or take for granted the Father of our Country over two hundred years later, but he was a towering figure to his peers, countrymen, and enemies.  This book, and its author, give him his due as a soldier, patriot, and leader of men.<br />This book is a good read, it's historically accurate, and it is a valuable addition to the literature of both the Revolution and the Continental Army that won it.	2000-12-26
US	50174289	RWFHSZDQF4FZT	0805061231	510058680	Saratoga: Turning Point of America's Revolutionary War	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Granny Gates	This is a relatively new book, and it is an excellent history of the series of battles, the campaign, that was the turning point of the American Revolution.  Seldom does a British armed force surrender; in the Revolution two did-at Yorktown and at Saratoga.  This prompted the French to weigh in as allies and send aid, as well as a fleet and an army, to support the Americans against Britain.  Ketchum, who was an editor at American Heritage and responsible for some of their better publications, including one on the Revolution, has told his tale with verve, wit, and accuracy.  His character sketches are colorful and right on target.  The author's treatment of both sides is even-handed, and the bitter fighting at both Freeman's Farm and Bemis Heights is painted with a wide, colorful brush, not leaving out the sheer horror and brutality that was 18th century warfare.  This book is highly recommended.  Although I believe John Elting's The Battles of Saratoga to be better, this volume belongs in every collection on the Revolution.	2000-12-26
US	50174289	R353AW003OPFQM	0805060995	34649879	Decisive Day: The Battle for Bunker Hill	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Until Hell Freezes Over...	This is one of the best retellings of the bloody series of assaults on Boston that was the first pitched battle of the Revolution.  Ketchum, an experienced historian, author, and editor, has skillfully woven a tale that is rich in color, yet is accurate.  The author's sources are impeccable, and his research goes deep.  The only account of this battle that I believe is superior is that done by John Elting, The Battle of Bunker Hill.  Both sides are given their due, and you can actually picture yourself in the redoubt or along the rail fence, wiping sweaty palms and counting the rounds remaining in your cartridge box.  From the initial horror of young Asa Pollard's head being crushed by a bouncing cannon ball to the unbelievable three volleys fired by John Stark's militiamen to smash and slaughter the British light infantry companies along the beach the reader is given all but a ringside seat to the carnage.  The leaders of both sides from the calm, fearless Howe to the indefatigable Prescott in the redoubt are given life with Ketchum's pen bringing the noise, smoke, and horror to life.  One can almost feel the balls ripping into flesh as Captain Harris falls with a seemingly mortal wound to the head and admired Major Pitcairn being fatally wounded in sight of his officer-son.  The bottom line is: if it is written by Ketchum, you should not only read it, but have it in your collection.  All of his work is excellent, being both informative and colorful, as well as accurate.	2000-12-26
US	50174289	RZVJ7A0QVE4W8	0385044518	260143252	A Stillness at Appomattox (Army of the Potomac, Vol. 3)	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Brethren, Let Us Go Amongst Them!	There is no substitute for Bruce Catton when it comes to the Civil War.  No one has captured the heartbreak, suffering, the smell of gunpowder, or the feel for the soldiers of that era in the way Catton has.  Growing up in Michigan, he knew these men in their old age and listened, as a boy, to their stories of the War of the Rebellion, undoubtedly enthralled and deeply impressed.  This volume, the third in his trilogy of the Army of the Potomac begins with the 1864 campaign after Grant, now the commander of all the Union armies, moves east to accompany, but not command (that was still General Meade, the victor of Gettysburg), the Army of the Potomac in its bloodiest campaigns against its antagonist, Lee and his indomitable Army of Northern Virginia.  Catton tells a captivating tale, very competently covering strategy and tactics, and the reasons soldiers fight.  His strength, however, is his feel for the soldiers themselves, be they enlisted or officer, private, 1st Sergeant, or commander.  His anecdotal approach to history is unsurpassed, except for perhaps John Elting, and through his eyes and pen, the reader gets to know these men on a personal level.  What Catton conveys to the reader at his level best, though, is the heartbreak of the losses incurred year after year.  Famous units, such as the Irish Brigade, the Iron Brigade, the 5th New Hampshire, the indomitable, crack Regular Division of the V Corps, the 1st Minnesota, that 'shattered thunderbolt', all fight as titans, and wither away because of heavy losses, to remain as shadows in the army, but never rebuilt or reconstituted.  So many brave young men gone, horrific losses that won't be suffered again until the meat grinding senselessness of the Great War.  Colorful, talented personalities abound, from Mississippi cavalryman Grimes Davis, killed at Brandy Station, mercurial, brilliant Phil Kearny who could 'make men follw [him] to hell', lawyer turned soldier Francis Barlow, who had the cold dead eyes of a killer, and cured straggling in his division in a most enlightened manner, to 'Greasy Dick' Richardson, killed at Bloody Lane at the Battle of Antietam shouting for the green flags of his favorite Irish Brigade, artilleryman John Gibbon who gave the Iron Brigade white gaiters, the regulation hats of the Regulars, and an outstanding combat reputation, finally to such personalities an Emory Upton, the northern Stonewall Jackson, who won his general's stars on the battlefield from Grant himself.  This book, and the entire trilogy itself, are a must for the military historian, Civil War buff or not.  Catton's work has stood the test of time, and he is still the best Civil War historian this country has produced.cold dead eyes of a killer, and cured straggling in his division in a most enlightened manner, to 'Greasy Dick' Richardson, killed at Bloody Lane at the Battle of Antietam shouting for the green flags of his favorite Irish Brigade, artilleryman John Gibbon who gave the Iron Brigade white gaiters, the regulation hats of the Regulars, and an outstanding combat reputation, finally to such personalities an Emory Upton, the northern Stonewall Jackson, who won his general's stars on the battlefield from Grant himself.      This book, and the entire trilogy itself, are a must for the military historian, Civil War buff or not.  Catton's work has stood the test of time, and he is still the best Civil War historian this country has produced.	2000-12-25
US	50174289	R37RCCL1D74HRP	0345359429	345581260	Battle Cry of Freedom:  The Civil War Era	Books	5	36	38	N	N	'Down With the Traitor, Up With the Star!'	When I first came into contact with this volume over ten years ago, I thought the hype of it being 'the best single volume treatment of the Civil War' just a little too much.  I thought back to all that I had read by Bruce Catton, and thought, 'no way.'  After reading it and keeping it in my library, however, the hype was correct, it is the best one volume history of the War of the Rebellion and a thoroughly enjoyable read.<br />I still am partial to Catton, as he knew the veterans he writes about from his boyhood in Michigan, and Mcpherson does not really capture the heartbreak of the gigantic losses (to put these in perspective, if a similar event happened today, losses would be over 5 million dead, based on population percentages), nor does he capture the agony, chaos, and exhilaration of combat.  However, it is still a most valuable volume and his treatment of the political side of the war is nothing short of superb.<br />  He proves, for example, with documentary evidence from both sides, that while the war was waged by the north to restore the Union, the root cause of the war itself was slavery, its maintenance, and its resumption as an international trade.  While the rank and file southerners did not join the army to fight to maintain slavery, and only ten percent of the southern population owned slaves to begin with, that ten percent controlled ninety percent of the wealth in the south and ran the new Confederacy.  Reading the book and checking McPherson's references is interesting and quite enlightening.<br />This volume is a monumental achievement and should be on the shelf of every Civil War enthusiast.  It is highly readable and highly recommended.	2000-11-11
US	50174289	R2HI6TIBC843PK	0891411437	10796103	3: Military Uniforms in America: Long Endure: The Civil War Period	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Expert Uniformology	This volume is a must for historians, modelers, reenactors, adn enthusiasts of every type.  Put together by The Company of Military Historians under the expert eye of Colonel John Elting is pictures the myriad uniforms of both sides in the Civil War and as a uniform reference it is unsurpassed.<br />Third in a series of four books devoted to the subject, it gleans the print collection of the Company, putting some of the best, but not all of its large output, into this volume, making the most accurate of uniform references available.  While no longer in print, it is available quite readily on the secondary market, and the prices I have seen are quite reasonable.<br />Starting before the War of the Rebellion, it continues also afterwards, even giving some of the uniforms of the troops engaged in Mexico during the doomed French adventure, the fate of which was finally sealed when General Sheridan showed up on the border with 50,000 veterans, bluntly telling the French to leave or suffer the consequences.<br />Regulation uniforms of the two American combatants are shown, as are the more colorful zouave and chasseur uniforms, from such famous units as the 14th Brookly, and also including navy and Marine Corps uniforms.  The expert art and research of H. Charles McBarron is plentiful in this volume, and his meticulous work carries an authority all its own.<br />This book is highly recommended, and if you don't own it, you're missing out on a veritable treat.	2000-11-11
US	50174289	R37LZGODBP5K67	0253208637	828154150	The Iron Brigade: A Military History (Great Lakes Connections: The Civil War)	Books	5	20	23	N	N	Black Hats and White Gaiters	This is the definitive history of what I consider the best brigade-sized unit in either army during the Civil War.  Alan Nolan is THE authority on this famous, hard-hitting outfit and this book is a classic.  Interesting, vivid, full of valor, heartbreaking losses, and gallant deeds, it chronicles the Army of the Potomac's sole western unit from its meager beginnings, its first engagement at Brawner's Farm the day before Second Bull Run, where it met and defeated the vaunted Stonewall Brigade in a vicious stand-up fight though outnumbered and still an untried unit of well-trained rookies. through the tough tutelage of veteran artilleryman John Gibbon, its first commander of note, to its moment of truth at Gettysburg, where, suffering almost 70% casualties, it goes into the fire unperturbed and outnumbered, both ruining and capturing opposing Confederate units, coming onto the field behind its tattered regimental flags like a wave of blue doom.  I first became interested in the Iron Brigade while reading Bruce Catton's excellent trilogy on the Army of the Potomac.  Not until this superb volume, however, did the whole story come out in gripping detail and hard-to-put-down narrative.  The author paints a vivid picture of the realities of war, what losses can do to even a veteran, well-trained unit, and the value of personal valor and leadership.  This book is highly recommended and should be on the book shelf of every Civil War reenactor, historian, and enthusiast.	2000-10-27
US	50174289	R1HCQN5QW4ZCUX	0942211170	917636402	Guns at Gettysburg	Books	5	6	7	N	N	The King of Battle	I first read this superb little volume in high school and it had a profound impact on my later decision to become an artillery officer.  It is also the only book to tell the tale of Gettysburg from the point of view of the artilleryman of both sides of the battlefield.<br />The author, an artilleryman himself, tells the tale of the men in both blue and grey who served the guns in the largest battle ever waged on the North American continent.  From Calef's horse artillery battery that rode with Buford, through Pegram's Battalion and the Washinton Artillery of New Orleans, and finally to the great prepatory cannonade that failed to pave the way for Pickett's doomed attack on the third day of battle, the tale is told of men and animals sho served and pulled the guns and their supporting vehicles.  Gallant battery commanders, one badly wounded and amputating his own leg with a pen knife, another told to hold at all costs, losing his battery to an overwhelming southern assault on the 2d day of battle, being wounded and taken to safety by his faithful trumpeter, and finally to gallant, Medal of Honor winning, Alonzo Cushing, swearing to give Armistead's infantry 'one more round' before being shot dead with the lanyard in his hand.  None of the stories, however, is as stirring as the one of Hazlett's battery being ordered to the crest of Little Round Top, an almost verticle face on the rear of the hill without roads or trails of any kind.  Calmly turning to his trumpeter to sound 'Forward' one can almost imagine the looks on the faces of his gunners and NCOs as they launched their battery at the gallop to and at the eminence.  Horses strained at the harness, gunners dismounted to pull with the animals, now frothing at the mouth in their desperation to do their master's bidding.  Finally, the battery's guidon crests the hill, the guns cresting the ridge along with the panting artilleryman and the exhausted, trembling horses.<br />  One aspect the author does not leave out and that is the contribution of the horses to the guns, men, and the final effort.  So well-trained that they maneuvered without any human direction save the calls from the battery trumpeter, they stoically endured murderous artillery and musket fire, dying in their harness, or mourning a lost companion after the action, their drivers sharing their grief.  These loyal, magnificent animals should never be forgotten, and the author gives them their just due.<br />  Even though this volume is out of print, it is a very important contribution to Civil War literature, and belongs on every historians shelf and in any bibliography of Gettysburg.ave out and that is the contribution of the horses to the guns, men, and the final effort.  So well-trained that they maneuvered without any human direction save the calls from the battery trumpeter, they stoically endured murderous artillery and musket fire, dying in their harness, or mourning a lost companion after the action, their drivers sharing their grief.  These loyal, magnificent animals should never be forgotten, and the author gives them their just due.<br />     Even though this volume is out of print, it is a very important contribution to Civil War literature, and belongs on every historians shelf and in any bibliography of Gettysburg.	2000-10-27
US	50174289	R23XJ3EOXRSGPM	0805033912	437092093	The West Point Atlas of American Wars: Vol. 1, 1689-1900	Books	5	21	21	N	N	Military History as it should be Written	This Atlas is indispensable for the study of American militiary history.  Written as a two volume text for the cadets of the Us Military Academy at West Point in the late 1950s, it has never gone out of date, and was prepared by some of the best scholars in uniform at the time, including Col John Elting.<br />Having used the Atlas at the Academy as a cadet, I can vouch for both its accuracy, the quality of the maps, and its relevance in the study of American military operations.  The maps are superb, and the text clear and concise.  Simple, straightforward, and to the point, it maps out in much clarity the early days of American military operations while still a colony, the Revolution, War of 1812, the Mexican War, Civil War, and the Spanish American War.<br />I have used these volumes for over thirty years and the reference is invaluable and a great help in understanding the sweep of the campaigns of the Civil War, as well as the intricacies of the operations of the Mexican and Revolutionary Wars.  This Atlas definitely belongs in the collection of every student of this fascinating subject.	2000-10-08
US	50174289	R2ER0N6884L19B	002560600X	49361433	Military Uniforms of World in Color	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Full Dress	This superb little volume is the first uniform book I purchased many years ago and it has been on my bookshelf ever since.  painstakingly accurate, with in depth descriptions of the uniforms of troops and armies from 1506-1965, it is an indispensable reference book that displays fighting men in their finery and field uniforms.<br />The wars sound throught the pages like drumrolls.  Everything from the War of the Spanish succession and the Great Northern War, through the American Revolution and the Napoleonic period, finally to ceremonial troops and the colonial troops of the European powers, this book gives an excellent accounting of the development and finery of military dress.<br />If you don't own it, you should.  Although no longer in print, it is well worth the effort to search it out on the secondary market and purchase it-you won't be disappointed.	2000-10-08
US	50174289	R14DKACO6Q9U61	1550022105	789161305	Red Coats & Grey Jackets: The Battle of Chippawa, 5 July 1814	Books	5	4	4	N	N	'Those are Regulars, By God!'	So stated the British commander on the field of Chippawa in July 1814 as the American Brigade commanded by Winfield Scott crossed the open field, closing ranks as men fell, and descended on the British battalions like 'gray doom.'<br />This outstanding volume by War of 1812 authority Donald Graves expertly tells the tale of the first stand up fight during the war where American regulars defeated and routed a British army.  Expertly trained by Scott, the American Left Division of Jacob Brown was the best force the Americans fielded during the war.  Using the excellent French 1791 Reglement, Scott untiringly trained his regulars in the Buffalo encampment and led them against the British until a wound at Lundy's Lane, after Chippawa, knocked him out of the war.<br />This rousing tale 'of much fight' is one of the best battle narratives written, and paints in broad strokes the desperate fighting on the Niagara frontier in 1814, where American, Briton, and Canadian fought against each other in some of the most desperate battles of the period.<br />This excellent volume is indispensable for a realistic view of the period, and the research that went into the book is intense, accurate, and tells a tale of valor, ingenuity, and the terror of the early 19th century battlefield.  It is a must to understand the period and belongs on the bookshelf of every historian and enthusiast of the period.	2000-10-08
US	50174289	R2WL0M1W14R41X	1896941109	336193306	Field of Glory: The Battle of Crysler's Farm, 1813	Books	5	13	13	N	N	On To Montreal!	Donald Graves continues his expert telling of the tale of the fighting on the Niagara frontier in the War of 1812 with this chronicle of the abortive invasion of Canada by the inexpert American forces under the incompetent command of the treasonous General James Wilkinson.  Factual, colorful, and authoritative, this book is a must for any student of the War of 1812 in particular and the Napoleonic period in general.  Frequently overlooked as a very small sideshow compared to the huge conflagration in Europe, the War of 1812 is really America's, and Canada's, forgotten war.  Fought over immense distances under incredible hardship with very small armies, the stakes fought for were unbelievably high, and the difficulty of waging war in this primitive wilderness, and the hardships endured by the troops, is simply unbelievable.  High deeds and much incompetence takes place in this volume, where an outnumbered, but much more skilled and better led, British/Canadian force badly defeats an American army whose only advantage is numbers.  However, some of the American regimental commanders take note and learn their lessons, and came roaring back the next year at Chippawa, Lundy's Lane, and Fort Erie to win back pride, prestige, and to fight the British and Canadians to a Mexican standoff, not quite winning, but not losing either.  Expertly written by THE authority on the period on the Niagara frontier, with the additional treat of a forward by Col John Elting, noted authority on the Napoleonic period and perhaps the greatest American military historian of the last half of the twentieth century, this book is a treat and definitely a must have.	2000-10-08
US	50174289	R3QH9XPL6ASJFR	0891415238	470283452	1794: America, Its Army, and the Birth of the Nation	Books	5	14	14	N	N	The Legion of the United States	This little gem of a book is one of the most interesting I have ever read.  It covers the disbanding of the Continental Army, the fear of a standing army by some of the Founding Fathers, the anti-military stance of the anti-Federalists, the Constitutional Convention and how Washington was 'elected' as the first President, and how the US quelled both the Indian problems in the Old Northwest and the Whiskey Rebellion.<br />The narrative is crisp, accurate, and the tale told is fascinating.  The cast of characters, from Washington and Frankling, through Hamilton and Gerry, and finally to Anthony Wayne is impressive, spellbinding, and completely fascinating.<br />It is a great read and gives insight into the troubles, nearly fatal troubles, that the young United States faced in its irst decade and a half as an independent nation.<br />This book also answers many questions:  Why some of the Founders objected to a strong military establishment (Patrick Henry and Thomas Jefferson were two that did-neither listened to Washington and settled on the dubious security of the militia which Washington considered 'a broken reed.'); why the Indians had to be fought in the Old Northwest; why the Constitution came into being, and finally how the United States finally survived and evolved.<br />This is a character study of a young nation trying to come to grips with its own nationhood, and how it would fulfill the promise of the Declaration of Independence.  It is a fascinating tale told with wit, verve, and accuracy.	2000-10-08
US	50174289	RADW5OH7RJ2C	0870520148	789309777	The Anatomy of Victory: Battle Tactics 1689-1763	Books	1	16	33	N	N	Inaccurate and Off the Mark	This book was disappointing.  It is full of inaccuracies, such as naming French tactics of the Napoleonic period 'impulse tactics,' which neither the French nor their opponents called them, as well as either over-generalizing the tactics and capabilities of the period armies, and totally missing the point on Frederick the Great's method of waging war and his success, and lack of it, during the period.<br />In my opinion, the author gives us a very cursory glance at the tactics of the period, and he is not a master of his subject matter.  There are useful parts to the book and some interesting points made, but the inaccuracies are threaded through the entire narrative which renders this book unreliable, especially for the novice.<br />I would recommend the excellent work by Christopher Duffy instead of this book.  Duffy is accurate, and his work is based on solid research, where this one is not.  There is a total misread of Folard's work and recommendations, a lack of understanding of the use and employment of light troops, and an abject failure to adequately explain the evolution of tactics during the stated period.	2000-10-08
US	50174289	RQF5UXDQ7TT33	0960595007	80832398	Regiments of All Nations: A History of Britain Ltd. Lead Soldiers 1946-66	Books	5	6	6	N	N	The Plumed Troop	This is a definitive work of the Britains Ltd production after WW II until the cessation of hollow-cast lead soldier production in 1966.  Each set is listed and the book is profusely illustrated, and even though the pictures are in black and white it still brings out the magnificence of the castings, the honest, skillful painting, and recalls the joy of seeing these intricate models in their sets and red boxes under the Christmas tree.<br />If you collect Britains as I do you will find this book immensely helpful in catalogueing your collection and it also gives you the needed information on what to look for at shows, on ebay, or wherever else you choose to look.<br />This volume only covers the lead production, not the plastic.  For that you need to go elsewhere.  Opie's The Great Book of Britains is the best place to start in my opinion for the entire production range from 1893-1993.<br />Wallis' book, however, is smaller and a paperback, which makes it much handier and it is a ready reference for collecting.  I have found it, and its companion volume, Armies of the World, to be indispensable for research, catalogueing, and for just reading up on the sets, the types of figures, band instruments, makeup and composition of sets, and the production dates of the sets.  If you are a Britains addict, I mean collector, this book is a definite must have.	2000-10-01
US	50174289	R2W83HT53UBHQR	067152268X	777358845	Dak to: America's Sky Soldiers in South Vietnam's Central Highlands	Books	5	35	36	N	N	Airborne, All The Way...	This is one of the best volumes about a desperate, bloody battle during the Vietnam War.  Fought between the veteran paratroopers of the 173d Airborne Brigade and North Vietnamese Regulars in the Central Highlands of Vietnam in late 1967, the author demonstrates through graphic prose and primary evidence just how savage and vicious the fighting in Vietnam was.  This legendary fight took place almost immediately before the TET offensive of January 1968 and ruined some of the NVA units that were to take part in that offensive and helped ruin the chances for the Comminists to gain victory.  Victory in this fight came at a heavy cost, and this book chronicles just how savage and desperate, and how heart-breaking the American losses were.<br />For me personally, this book means much, as my brother was a company commander in the 2d Battalion of the 503d infantry, one of the four infantry battalions of the 173d Airborne Brigade, and he was killed in action leading his company on Hill 875.<br />This book is as good as We Were Soldiers Once And Young, and it is one of the best books I have read on the war in Vietnam.  It shows the courage and skill of outnumbered Americans who fought, died, and never quit-something that never really came out of the general media coverage of that unpopular war.<br />This volume is highly recommended and the author is to be congratulated for he has told a story of high valor and much suffering, and of the ongoing skill of the American soldier doing his duty, appreciated or not, in foreign lands fighting and defeating a skilled and determined enemy.<br />Virtute et Valore	2000-10-01
US	50174289	R1JWPGBKR2SDLX	0060257369	280886084	Story of the Doughboys	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Retreat, Hell!  We Just Got Here!	This is an outstanding work by a wounded World War I Marine veteran about the American Expeditionary Force sent to France in WW I.  Told with wit, verve, and a flair for the dramatic, it is also one of the best organizational histories written about an army at war.<br />All of the unpreparedness of the young United States thrust into its first large war outside of its own hemisphere is brought out in this tale of valor, inexperience, youthful exuberance, and bullheadedness in a sea of mud, gas, and deadly artillery and machine gun fire against a skilled professional enemy that wasn't quite ready for the onslaught of the unskilled thousnads of American soldiers and Marines who quickly learned their trade and dealt death and defeat to their German enemy.<br />Stallings, who was severely wounded losing a leg at Belleau Wood as a young Marine officer knew these men and their commanders first hand and seemingly spent the rest of his productive life writing about them in books, plays (What Price Glory?-Think fast, Captain Flagg, think fast!!!), and motion pictures.  The gritty realism combined with high idealism paints a vivid picture of the inexperienced American divisions sent to France who quite literally saved the day for the battered allies and became a first class army, one of the best the United States ever sent anywhere.<br />This book is highly recommended and should be on the bookshelf of any and all history buffs.	2000-10-01
US	50174289	R20CCXWGV9JOP1	081170341X	861200683	Don Troiani's Civil War	Books	5	14	14	N	N	Hell Isn't Half a Mile Off...	Don Troiani is undoubtedly the best military artist in the United States  today and his Civil War paintings accurately portray the armies of that  most terrible of wars.  Colorful, realistic, and full of movement, action,  and the terror of combat, they have moved up to fill a void that was  created with the passing of the older generation of great American military  painters such as H. Charles McBarron and Clyde Risley.<br />This book is a  noteworthy compendium of his Civil War paintings, and, accompanied by  authoritative text by Brian Pohanka, is a valuable addition to the growing  crescendo of Civil War literature.  Accurate, gritty, and covering the  subject from muzzle to buttplate, this account and the paintings it  describes bring the war to life on your bookshelf or coffee table.  No  other painter today, with the exception of Keith Rocco and his Napoleonic  paintings, has captured the world of the combat soldier as Troaini  has.<br />If you don't own this book, you are definitely missing out on a part  of history.	2000-09-15
US	50174289	R13X7VYA60P8VD	1853266906	598553924	Military Experience in the Age of Reason (Wordsworth Military Library)	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Linear Warfare	Christopher Duffy is a definite authority for this period of history and  this volume is a must for all students of the period.  Additionally,  students of the Napoleonic period should read this book as it gives the  background, both practical and thoeretical, that led to the Revolution in  tactics and strategy that was Napoleonic warfare.<br />Crisply written,  thoroughly researched, this book is a great read, packed full of excellent  material, and is an asset to every library.  My only complaint is that I  would have liked more material on the American Revolution.<br />The age of  'limited warfare' as it is sometimes called is generally misunderstood.  Its battles, however, were savage, bloody affairs and the author brings  this point out, as well as painting an excellent picture of the age of  which he writes.  It is a benefit to all students of military history that  Duffy's books are being reprinted and that he is still writing and  producing excellent history.<br />If you haven't read this book, you are  missing out both on excelent history and an intellectual treat.	2000-09-15
US	50174289	R39INFCKXF2ZTI	0060975768	502570587	We Were Soldiers Once... and Young: Ia Drang--The Battle That Changed the War in Vietnam	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Superb Batle Study	If you're looking for a book on Vietnam that tells the story of the troops  on the ground and what it was like to fight in Southeast Asia this is  definitely it.  General Moore and Joseph Galloway have done a superb job  telling the story of the first large battle involving American troops in  Vietnam in the 1960s.  It is full of heroism, leadership, mistakes, and  hard fighting.  It reads like a novel, is definitely a page turner, and it  hits you part way through the book that you really are reading about young  men fighting for their lives of far away battlefields at distances where  you could throw rocks. Moore and Galloway are to be congratulated here for  they have told a tale of bravery, endurance, and fortitude that few authors  have been able to accomplish.  Unblooded American troops met and defeated a  skilled and determined enemy on his ground, though not without loss and  mistakes.  The bravery of the common soldier is unbelievable, as are the  conditions under which he was asked to fight. This book is highly  recommended and is one of the best this reviewer has ever read.  It is  accurate, well-written, and one of the best battle studies produced in a  very long time.	2000-09-10
US	50174289	RIX7S7MAYL0BF	1884570453	828652435	Fallen warriors: West Point's class of 1964	Books	5	3	4	N	N	The Sacred Fire	John Murray has told a straightforward, poignant tale of twenty-four of  America's best who went into the fire of combat for their country when  called without looking back, and paid the ultimate price on the  battlefield. As a contributor to the book, I can say that all of us owe  John Murray a debt that we cannot pay.  Our war dead must be remembered in  the collective memory of our nation, for if they are not, we as a people  are not worth much.  Whether or not you agree with the war, of for the  cause for which that war was waged, those who died are our own, and they  fought for us as a nation without thought of reward or recompense.  They  selflessly gave their lives so the United States could continue as a free  nation, and they deserve to be remembered and honored as long as the flag  of the United States flies over its sovereign territory. This volume tells  the personal story of the twenty-four members of the West Point Class of  1964 who gave their lives for their country, of which my brother was one.  In straightforward prose, Murray tells of their character, their  motivation, and their mission, and he tells it throught the words of these  men's families and friends.  For him and for us who contributed, it was  sometimes heartbreaking, sometimes joyful, remembering, again, our loved  ones who chose the profession of arms and went into the fire at the behest  of their nation.  On a personal note, Thank You, John, for the book you  wrote and the time you took, and for you service, also. Napoleon valued  what he called the Sacred Fire in his officers, which was the indomitable  will to conquer or die trying.  These twenty-four heroes definitely had it,  and it inspired others who followed, such as myself, to take up the  profession of arms, follow the drum, and serve when my country called,  becoming a better man for doing it.	2000-09-10
US	50174289	R1O96NVX2MSBVY	0679724141	821994534	A Bright Shining Lie: John Paul Vann and America in Vietnam	Books	1	60	100	N	N	Flawed Methodolgy, Sometimes Inaccurate	There has been much written on the Vietnam War, some of it too soon after  or during the event to be either objective or accurate.  Some scholarship  is outstanding: Murphy's book on the Battle of Dak To, the superb We Were  Soldiers Once and Young by Moore and Gallagher, one a commander on the  ground, the other a journalist who was present at the action chronicled,  and Summons of the Trumpet by Dave Palmer, a noted author, combat soldier,  and later Superintendant of the US Military Academy at West Point.  Unfortunately, I don't think this volume quite cuts the mustard.  The  author's methodlolgy bothers me somewhat: equating the American policy in  Southeast Asia to the personal morals of one man involved in the conflict,  albeit over quite a long period.  In doing so, the author leaves out the  contributions of too many, putting a blanket of flawed character over the  entire venture, when many, if not most, who served there in that longest of  American wars were men and women of character, attempting to do their job  tho the best of their ability, almost 60,000 not coming home and later  having their names placed on The Wall in Washington DC, two of which belong  to my brother and my cousin.  It is here that I object to both the author's  premise and his objectivity.  Finally, in the last chapters he attempts  to chronicle the Battle of the La Drang Valley in 1965.  I had read other  versions of the fighting and after reading this one, thought I had read of  an entirely different action.  I do think the author erred here, especially  after reading We Were Soldiers Once and Young, by General Moore, who  commanded one of the squadrons there, and by Gallagher, a journalist who  went through the fighting with the troopers of the 7th Cavalry.  These two, in my opinion, major errors in the book make it a flawed  chronicle at best, and not the best tome to rely on about the War in  Vietnam.	2000-09-10
US	50174289	R3LEUQ4LYGBP9A	0590100548	416024213	Cat Heaven	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Warm, furry thoughts...	To those of us who love animals, heaven simply would not be heaven without their continued companionship.  And, yes, it hurts and we miss them when we  part -- but some of us are blessed to know that it is only a temporary  parting.  This book, and its companion piece, Dog Heaven, have given much  comfort to me and fellow animal lover friends.  It's when the thought of  your friends bring a smile (or sometimes a quiet tear) that you know what  heaven is about. Daisy Kiley, Jacksonville, NC	2000-09-07
US	50174289	R1HO2XCYK303NS	1557500304	676976365	A Signal Victory: The Lake Erie Campaign, 1812-1813	Books	5	12	12	N	N	'Odds, Bobs, Hammer, and Tongs'	This excellent book is the definitive history of this hard-fought, valiant effort by two small fleets fighting each other to the death quite literally  in the middle of nowhere, 1813.<br />Two quickly built naval squadrons,  getting men and material for sailor and ships from wherever they could,  fought each other to literal annihilation for the loser, and great  strategic gains for the victor.  Two talented naval officers, Briton Robert  H. barclay, and American Oliver Hazard Perry, built their small fleets,  manned them with whatever came along (in Perry's case 'a motley set,  blacks, soldiers, and boys', including a Marine officer who was given his  choice of a court-martial or serving on the northwest frontier-he was later  killed in action in the battle, quite gallantly taking his death wound  leading his men), and set sail to settle the fate of Lake Erie and its  surrounding territory.<br />The authors tell their tale with wit, verve, and  aplomb, from the different characters to the ships and the men that manned  them.  This volume definitely has the smell of gunpowder about it and is  meticulously researched and very well-written.  It is highly recommeded  both as a valued addition to the literature of the period and a book than  can stand on its own.	2000-08-24
US	50174289	R867RBNRKK21E	1557505322	532860494	Lords of the Lake: The Naval War on Lake Ontario, 1812-1814 (Classics of Naval Literature)	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Fortune Favors the Brave!	This valuable tome tells the interesting story of the arms race of the War  of 1812.  Gallant naval feats are few here, and there are mismanaged  operations and no showdown fights.  There is, though, a very interesting  story to tell.  Well-researched and better written, the author has chosen a  topic that is seldom talked or written about and that is a valuable  addition to the literature of the little-known War of 1812.<br />The story of  the 'naval war' on Lake Ontario is a strange one.  The British commander,  Sir James Yeo, built an excellent fleet, and never really sought decisive  action against his foe, American Isaac Chauney, who more than obliged him,  apparently believing that to save his hard-built fleet was more important  than hunting down and destroying his enemy, in the words of the immortal  John Paul Jones, seeking a fast ship (or ships) and going 'in harm's  way.'<br />In cold fact, Yeo didn't have to.  By denying the Americans the  control of Lake Ontario, he accomplished his mission.  By not seeking  decisive combat, Chauncey denied his country a strategic advantage, at the  same time starving his very competent and aggressive subordinate, Oliver  Perry on Lake Erie, experienced seamen and assets to build an overwhelming  superiority on that other lake, which didn't stop him from winning the  decisive victory at Put-in-Bay.  It would have been interesting to see  Perry command on Ontario against Yeo afterwards.<br />This book is highly  recommended and belongs on every history buff's bookshelf, whether or not  he or she is a War of 1812 enthusiast.  It is another piece of the puzzle  that is American militiary history.	2000-08-24
US	50174289	R36UAFMWM55HZI	0786703296	74963274	Robert the Bruce: King of Scots	Books	5	34	34	N	N	Good King Robert's Testament	This superb volume reads like a novel, is definitely a spell-binding page  turner, and 'telleth of much fyte.'  Well-researched, written with wit,  vigor, and a definite interest in the subject matter, it covers the period  like no other account of medieval warfare this reviewer has ever read.  Easy to read and understand, the author has proved himself a definite  master of his subject, and this is one of the best books the reviewer has  ever read.<br />From the in house fight with the Comyns, through the early  fighting against the English by Wallace, the hit and run raids to the  brief, deadly assaults with his solid henchman, Bruce rampages through this  book like a juggernaut, coming alive after seven hundred years, his  faithful lieutenants, among them his brother Edward and 'The Black'  Douglas, range the English/Scottish border taking revenge for years of  privations and cruel vengeance of the English King, Edward I, 'Longshanks.'<br />Working his way through legend and myth to find the 'real' Bruce, the  author weaves his tale of high adventure, blook-curdling killings and  heartbreaking marches.  His brother's adventures in Ireland are not  neglected, nor is the climactic battle of Bannockburn, that is highlighted  by such a killing of English nobility that the Scots won their freedom and  the Bruce was recognozed as their king.<br />Very seldom does a book of this  quality show up.  If you haven't read it, you're missing a great treat.  If  you have, you'll want to read it again, as I have.	2000-08-24
US	50174289	R29TR95U6WG09C	1853672467	610848119	1812 The Great Retreat: Told by the Survivors	Books	5	19	23	N	N	Napoleon's Men of Bronze	This excellent volume, superbly documented, paints a realistic, grim, and  completely readable picture of the Grande Armee's retreat from Moscow.  Much new information has been uncovered and used, and this is one of the  best books on the subject available today in English.  The third of three  books by the same author on the Russian campaign, it tells the tale of one  of the most tragic and gripping events of the Napoleonic Wars.<br />The  retreat was gruesome.  During it, Napoleon reached his nadir as a soldier,  but somewhere, possibly during one of the running fights with Cossacks or  other Russian irregulars, he regained his identity and courage, and got the  remnants of his army out of Russia, the survivors he later proudly  nicknamed his 'men of bronze.'<br />Without a doubt, the French and allied  survivors were the toughest men in the Grande Armee by virtue of their  getting out of Russia.  The best and proudest moment for all concerned,  except the Russians of course, was the assault crossing of the Berezina  River, the last obstacle facing the Grande Armee on its way home.<br />Chased  by two, and the river line held by another Russian army, the  professionalism and stark fighting qualities of Napoleon's soldiers sorted  themselves out and they executed a flawless operation, defeating two  Russian armies and outrunning a third.  Building the bridges they needed as  they went, they fought their way across against almost overwhelming numbers  of men and guns, the French and their trusted allies, Swiss, Germans, and  Poles, outfighting their Muscovite opponents and leaving Russia as  victors.<br />This story has many eyewitnesses, doctors, privates, generals,  colonels, and one French actress.  They tell of the horror and suffering,  of high deeds, and the hopelessness of the snow covered vastness that is  Russia in the winter.<br />This book is excellent, and along with its two  partners, deserves wider reading.  It is a superb reference for study or  fun, and all three have now been produced in one volume.fun, and all three have now been produced in one volume.	2000-08-19
US	50174289	R1ESKH7UFUGAUX	093552648X	382406009	Sloop of War (The Bolitho Novels) (Volume 4)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Clear for Action!	Alexander Kent is undoubtedly the best writer of naval fiction on the market today.  His books are packed with action, are accurate as to ships, armamment, and the interaction of the different ranks and classes in the  Royal Navy of the period, with enough swashbuckling to keep the reader  enthralled.<br />This book in the series, which tells the tale of our hero,  Richard Bolitho, as a young naval commander in his first command, the Sloop  'Sparrow' during the American Revolution, is a tale of leadership,  betrayal, intrigue, and fast-paced, bloody action.  Ships, seaman,  soldiers, and the sea all combine to give a fast-paced. grim and bloody  tale of those men that 'go down to the sea in ships,' and put those ships  'in harm's way.'<br />Bolitho's First Lieutenant is an American Loyalist, and  the relationship Kent builds for these officers, as well as the rest of the  crew of HMS Sparrow is one of the highlights of Kent's novels.  Kent knows  men and ships, and it shows in his action-packed prose.  Ships to him are  living things, and his affection for them and the sea in general, is quite  obvious.  My own father was a professional seaman, which may be the reason  these books are a favorite.<br />Better than the Hornblower series, as serious  and grim as actual history, they are a pleasure to read, and to follow the  fortunes of Bolitho from Cornwall and the colorful cast of characters that  Kent has created.  The Royal Navy during the period has been accurately  described by a modern historian, and authority on the period, as  'man-eating' and Kent brings this out.  His characterization of Bolitho as  a humane officer is also compelling, for during this age thoughtful  commanders took good care of the men they had to lead into the hell of  combat.<br />Good book, excellent read, compelling characters, superb  adventure-what else could you ask for?	2000-07-21
US	50174289	R1T5LSYIDZ74XT	0060196963	763786575	Once An Eagle: A Novel	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Professionals and Careerists	There is one purpose for the existence of a professional military organization.  That purpose is to engage in warfare, when necessary, to defend the nation.  Peacetime, which unfortunately is usually just a  breathing space between wars and lesser fights, should be spent training  and preparing for the next go-round.<br />Once An Eagle brings that fact of  life chillingly home to roost.  I first read this excellent novel in the  1970s and I have reread it many times and learned more from the book each  time.  It also served me well throughout my military service as a Marine  artilleryman.<br />The main character is a composite, a combination of  Woodfill from War I to Eichelberger in War II.  The author has caught the  essence of both military service and the military life, even though he  salts the dialogue with Marine terms instead of the corresponding 'Army  talk.'<br />The characters are real, the battles were actually fought, both  on the battlefield and off (the off battlefield ones, unfortunately are  still being waged and not always for the 'good of the service'), even  though a good part of the fight in France during War I was taken liberally  from the book Fix Bayonets!  Artistic license is both acceptable and  valuable, especially in this case.<br />Soldiers, not carpet knights, win the  nation's wars.  Unfortunately, they will still have to be waged, fought,  and won.  This excellent volume makes the distinction between the soldier  and the courtier, and what the country needs to defend itself.  One retired  Marine officer who is also a prolific author of Marine Corps lore, has  termed these two types of officers 'lions and lambs'-the distinction should  be obvious to the casual observer and reader.  This book should not only be  required reading for every military professional, but also for the  politicians who are their civilian masters and who send them into harm's  way.	2000-07-21
US	50174289	R1MYPLTN4P2N20	1855326248	356890708	Louis XV's Army (4) Light Troops & Specialists (Men-At-Arms Series, 308)	Books	5	9	11	N	N	A La Hussard!	This is an interesting, highly accurate work, as are all of Rene Chartrand's books,  which covers a period not usually well-covered, or covered at all.  The addition of Maitre Eugene Leliepvre's lively,  accurate, and colorful artwork only adds to the value and accuracy.<br />The  early history of French light troops is one of trial and error, fits and  starts, that tried to catch up to the excellent light troops of the  Austrian army that so troubled the French throughout the early and mid  eighteenth century.  Here in all their Gallic splendor are the regiments of  foreign born hussars, dragoons, uhlans, and whatever else the imaginative,  energetic, and not always efficient soldiers thought up to raise and send  into the fire in central Europe.<br />Told in a descriptive and accurate  fashion, the book is a must for every afficionado of the period.  It is  also a very good introduction for the later Revolutionary and Napoleonic  periods where the French light troops came into their own and began to  dominate battlefields.<br />The addition of Eugene Leliepvre's superb  artwork is a definite plus for the book, and ensures it will be used for  years to come.  This book belongs on the shelf of every enthusiast of this  period and the later Napoleonic and revolutionary periods.	2000-07-21
US	50174289	R2BRFV8VSQDXOO	0935526498	111780194	To Glory We Steer (The Bolitho Novels) (Volume 5)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	On the Uproll, Fire!	I have read the Alexander Kent bolitho series since I was in college.  I personally think them superior to the Hornblower series, and they undoubtedly are the best of the genre.  Exciting, accurate, well-written,  and full of adventure against enemy and sea, they give a superb picture of  life and warfare at sea in the age of sail.<br />This volume is my favorite.  Kent knows his business regarding both seamanship and ships, and  leadership, both routine and in combat.  He has created a world that  encompassess heroes and villains, veterans and neophytes, graceful frigates  and ponderous ships of the line, and the darting sloops and brigs that did  most of the dirty work.<br />The characters are unforgettable, from Richard  Bolitho, Thomas Herrick who becomes his friend and loyal 1st Lieutenant, to  Captain Rennie of the ship's marine detachment.  And of course, there is  John Allday, veteran seaman, pressed man, and who becomes perhaps Bolitho's  closestThe ship herself is a main character, and no one who ever reads this  book will forget the frigate HMS Phalarope.  To those who 'go down to the  sea in ships' the vessels themselves are alive, which undoubtedly they are,  and this frigate is unforgettable, gallant, and as enduring as her  crew.<br />This novel is superb, a tale of high deeds, mutiny, loyalty,  friendship, and the horror of combat.  Read in conjunction with Robert  Gardiner's factual, well illustrated books on the age of sail, they are an  unbeatable combination.	2000-07-20
US	50174289	R3R3FKAUJ17GT6	1568490275	315640613	Form Line of Battle (Richard Bolitho Novels)	Books	5	2	4	N	N	Hyperions! Rally To Me!	This exciting, at times melancholy adventure is my second all-time favorite Bolitho book.  Alexander Kent writes about warfare at sea like no other, and knows the meaning of loyalty and comradeship.<br />Commanding a  ship of the line in the Mediterranean, Bolitho gets involved in a smaller  operation a la Toulon in 1793.  Faced with almost overwhelming odds in men  and guns, an incompetent and revenge minded-superior (they have met  before),  Bolitho not only outsails and outfights the enemy, but he dazzles  his admiral's intended and wins her from under the admiral's nose.<br />These  books are also leadership studies, and can teach the student, or junior  officer, how to lead and treat the troops in his charge.  The author was a  Royal Navy officer in World War II, saw his share of combat in motor  torpedo boats, and so knows something of the subject.<br />These exciting and  completely believable novels of high adventure and bloody sea fights are  entertaining, frought with danger and the crash of cannon, the smell of  gunppowder and are written by a master story teller who is one of the best  in the business.	2000-07-20
US	50174289	R386VM0I42ZJTM	1855327422	166289951	Austrian Grenadiers and Infantry 17881816 (Warrior)	Books	4	5	7	N	N	Informative, Authoritive, Well-Documented	The author has done an immense amount of research on the Austrian Army of the Revolutionary and Napoleonic period, most of it archival.  Here, within the constraints of the Osprey series, he has written an excellent volume  that illustrates, both pictorially and in writing, a subject that is both  interesting and vital to the collective understanding of the period.<br />The  Austrian army was full of good troops and units.  Generally, it was in the  leadership category, especially the senior leadership, that hampered its  operations.  If led by generals of the caliber of the Archduke Charles, it  could and did perform more than adequately, Charles defeating Napoleon in  1809 at Essling, the Emperor's first battlefield loss; if not, it was  usually beaten.  Interestingly, the Austrian Army's best performance of the  period was probably when allied to the French in Russia.  It was commanded  and led by Prince Schwarzenberg, one of the better Austrian generals, and  repeately defeated the Russians in 1812.<br />Here, though, is a highly  detailed, informative volume that I would highly recommend to everyone who  is interested in the period.<br />It should be noted that the author and I  generally do not agree on several Napoleonic issues, and have clashed over  differing opinions on the author's book on Marengo.  This review is not  influenced in any way by that difference of opinion.<br />This volume,  however, is everything the other is not.  This excellent tome is peppered  with first hand accounts of Austrian performance and its bibliography is  first rate and extrememly helpful.  I would go as far as saying that this  volume sets a new standard for the Osprey Warrior Series, and is favorable  comparable to the excellent volumes in the series by Rene Chartrand, whom I  believe has produced the best Osprey books so far.<br />This book is  informative, interesting, well-written and very well-documented.  If you  have any interest in the period, it should be in your collection, whether  or not the Austrian Army is your area of concern or interest.  Without at  least a working knowledge of the Austrian Army (properly the  Kaiserlich-Konigliche Armee-the Imperial and Royal Army), you may come up  short in your reading and understanding.  The Archduke Charles was probably  the best of the Allied generals, and the Austrians fought the French longer  than any other European power, except the English, and provided more troops  to the Coalitions.ur collection, whether  or not the Austrian Army is your area of concern or interest.  Without at  least a working knowledge of the Austrian Army (properly the  Kaiserlich-Konigliche Armee-the Imperial and Royal Army), you may come up  short in your reading and understanding.  The Archduke Charles was probably  the best of the Allied generals, and the Austrians fought the French longer  than any other European power, except the English, and provided more troops  to the Coalitions.	2000-07-19
US	50174289	R1KWIX4UDRP2ZM	0967098505	762561950	Marengo and Hohenlinden : Napoleon's Rise to Power	Books	4	9	12	N	N	Solid, Straightforward History	This is the author's best effort so far and he has established himself as an accurate, reliable historian.  The story of this critical campaign, which could have resulted in cutting Napoleon's amazing career somewhat  short, is stirringly told with verve, wit, and an understanding of the  period.<br />Using reliabe, accurate sources, the book tells of the critical  fight at Marengo in northern Italy first, with the desperately raised Armee  de la Reserve, and Napoleon's hair-raising fight that almost resulted in  his defeat.  Reinforced and saved at, quite literally, the last moment by  his friend Desaix, whom Napoleon considered the 'best balanced of his  lieutenants, the momentarily triumphant Austrians were hurled back in rout,  and French arms triumphant.  Unfortunately, Desaix was killed leading the  decisive attack, shot dead out of the saddle.  French generals Kellermann  and Marmont provided the needed cavalry and artillery support, and the epic  30 minute fight of the Consular Guard infantry, in its first fight as a  unit, is all told here.<br />Hohenlinden, fought in Germany after Marengo by  the Armee de la Rhine under Moreau, is a different type of campaign.  Moreau, popular, sluggish, and definitely not a friend or supporter of  Napoleon, generally ignores directives from Napoleon, but manages to catch  the Austrians at a disadvantage, and thanks to the combat leadership of his  aggressive subordinates, Ney, Richemanse, and Dacaen, wins a decisive  victory effectively ending the war.<br />This volume is definitely a keeper.  It is accurate, enjoyable, and thorough, and holds the reader's interest  throughout.  Highly recommended.	2000-07-19
US	50174289	R1WB9G6TFG6KYF	0521270650	136853266	Light-Horse Harry Lee and the Legacy of the American Revolution	Books	5	23	24	N	N	Burning the Candle at Both Ends	Charles Royster is one of the premier historians on the period of the American Revolution.  He has done excellent work on the Continental Army and he knows his business.<br />This volume is no different.  Lee is one of  the celebrated personalities of the Revolution, especially for his  excellent service in the southern theater under Nathaniel Greene.  Commanding a green-uniformed legion of infantry and cavalry, he performed  superbly with the main army and working happily with Francis Marion and his  partisans harrying the British and Tories in the South Carolina back  country.<br />The first part of the book covers this portion of Lee's life.  To me it was the most interesting, the Revolution in general and the  Continental Army in particular being two of my favorite subjects.  however,  the rest of the book covers Lee's later life, which steadily went downhill  after the Revolution's ending, with bouts of debt, sickness, failure, and  an early death.  Lee, the father of Robert E., is an interesting, sad  figure, egotistical, patriotic, more than competent, and somewhat  politically naive.<br />Royster presents Lee as a whole person, and deftly  intertwines his tale with Revolutionary exploits, first hand accounts,  family and financial problems, and brings the legend into line with the  man's humanity, frailties, and strengths.<br />This book is a must for all  interested in the Revolution and one of the most fascinating personalities  to grace the American stage in the 18th century.	2000-07-18
US	50174289	R38L550ZMFR6EB	0060927623	236168985	Patton: Genius for War, A	Books	5	135	141	N	N	The Old Army Style	George Patton, a veteran of the Pershing expedition to Mexico in 1916 (where he killed three of Pancho Villas men, one a key subordinate, in a man to man gunfight), World War I (where he commanded the fledgling US Tank  Brigade and was wounded and decorated for valor), and World War II, is one  of the most misjudged and underrated combat commanders in American military  history.<br />An expert tactician, strategist, and trainer, he was proud,  profance, outspoken, a soldier's soldier, led from the front, shared his  men's hardships, led was was undoubtedly the best American field army of  the war, and was the only American general the Germans feared.<br />Carlo  D'Este has written the definitive biography of this soldier and general,  warts and all.  He covers Patton's life from muzzle to buttplate, pulls no  punches, and provides a human picture of a man that has definitely risen to  legend.<br />The descendant and father of soldiers, Patton led his troops  and units in the old army way.  An experienced combat officer, he had more  experience than either Eisenhower or Bradley, and was a better general than  both as well as Montgomery.<br />This book has presented more information on  Patton the man than any other.  It is well-written, and riveting-you can't  put it down.  A moody, morose, devoted family man and dedicated soldier,  Patton deserves more study, as do his campaigns.  This book gets past the  hype and delivers a solid punch as good, solid military history, and  delivers the total picture of a man driven to be an aggressive, talented  combat commander who knew his profession and contributed mightily to the  final victory in World War II.	2000-07-18
US	50174289	R3C6M9YNMDK498	0891410082	639894255	Military Uniforms in America, Vol. 2: Years of Growth, 1796-1851	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Superb Uniformology, Authoritative Text	This second volume in a four volume series telling the story of military uniforms worn by the combatants in the different wars in North America is simply superb.  It covers a period that is not popular, the War of 1812 and  the Mexican War, but it is a period that is full of high deeds, great  campaigns, good soldiers, that ranged, in relatively small numbers compared  to current warfare in Europe, across broad expanses of territory that was  rough, unexplored, and sparsely settled, that would dwarf the distances  traveled in Europe.<br />Thirty-nine plates of the sixty-four in the book  cover the War of 1812 and the period immediately preceding it.  To me, this  was the most interesting as it is the Napoleonic period which is my  favorite.  I have had a new interest in the War of 1812 after reading books  on it by John Elting, Donald Graves, and Henry Adams.  The uniforms are  rich, handsome, and not generally thought of as American.<br />Some of the  best military artists and historians contributed to this volume, including  John Elting, Herbert Knotel, Eugene Leliepvre, Fairfax Downey, H. Charles  McBarron, Frederick P. Todd, and Harry C. Larter.  Unfortunately, most of  these gallant gentlemen are no longer with us, and they are a breed of  historian we shall never see again.<br />I have owned the other three volumes  in this series for years.  I just found this one and bought it, in  excellent condition with the dust cover intact and in good shape, from a  second hand bookshop.  It is not only highly recommended, but it is a  necessary addition to any and all who are interested in this era, and in  American military history in general.	2000-07-18
US	50174289	R2PYDGD8A444E3	0674443020	734738555	The Ideological Origins of the American Revolution	Books	5	66	83	N	Y	Romans, Saxon, Montesquieu, and Revolution	There is an unfortunate, somewhat politically correct, movement today attempting to 'prove' that the Founding Fathers, the Declaration of Independence, and the Constitution, were motivated by, and the documents  based on, the Bible and Christianity.<br />This forlorn hope relies on tenuous  ties to Biblical scripture to illustrate sections of both documents, and  the alleged religious piety of the Founders.  This is not only bad history,  but it is nonsense and is giving a false picture of the background,  motivation, and ultimate success of the American Revolutionaries.  They are  being misquoted, misrepresented, and quite frankly, lied about.<br />This  excellent volume, written before all the present quasi religious  whoop-de-do, dispels all of these misbegotten theories and presents in  clear, concise, and documented prose what motivated the Founders to start a  Revolution against the mother country and set out on 'the noble  experiment.'<br />Bailyn is a noted historian, an accurate researcher, and a  careful analyst of historic events.  This is one of the best books on the  American Revolution that has been written in the last fifty years.  The  author painstakingly takes the reader through the development of  Enlightenment thought, the Founders preoccupation with classical antiquity,  and where their theories of independence, the rights of man, and government  came from and how they developed.<br />What they wrought was not a state  founded on religion or religiuos principles, but on English Common Law,  which had as its antecedents Roman Law, Saxon Law, and the Danelaw, none of  which were based either on the Bible or on Christianity in any of its  forms.  What Bailyn has given us is a clear and concise history of the  Founders that needs to be read and studied by present and future citizens  to understand our bdginnings as a nation.	2000-07-18
US	50174289	R26OEYIAJJ5KRH	0691027641	810381478	Makers of Modern Strategy from Machiavelli to the Nuclear Age	Books	3	48	67	N	Y	Newer is Not Necessarily Better	This second version of the book is disappointing.  I would have thought that it being edited by an historian as good as Peter Paret would have improved on the original, which was edited by Robert Earle.  However, it is  weaker both in scholarship and accuracy, especially John Shy's essay on  Jomini.  Old myths are resurrected about the Swiss renegade whose own works  are generally historically inaccurate.<br /><br />Many of the older, more  professional, historians, who are unfortunately no longer with us were much  more careful in their research and writing, hunting down sources that newer  historians either refuse to look for or refuse to use.  they also were more  blunt, calling a spade a spade, and weren't worried about offending people  or in 'revisionist' (read inaccurate) history.  Political correctness was  unknown to these stalwarts.<br /><br />Books of this type are highly useful.  If  you are looking for this particular volume, get the first version edited by  Earle, even if you have to go looking in second hand book stores or on the  internet in used book services.  I did, and it is well worth the effort.	2000-07-18
US	50174289	R2N6WRU87P43SU	0811705781	369303076	Encyclopedia of the American Revolution	Books	5	19	21	N	N	Indispensable	This book is a handy reference for the Revolution.  In a book of this size and scope, there are bound to be errors, and I have found a few.  However, this does not diminish the value of this volume as it is jam-packed with  valuable information, trivia, references, and wisdom that is seldom found  in an encyclopedia-type volume.<br />Written for the researcher in mind, this  book has been invaluable for me in either writing my own articles, or for  quickly being able to research some little-known fact while in the midst of  a 'historical discussion.'<br />This volume is highly recommended, and it is  useful, and quite literally, indispensable for the serious student.	2000-07-18
US	50174289	R1KWLQ5E8YQ2V2	0253206081	477824367	Eisenhower's Lieutenants: The Campaigns of France and Germany, 1944-45	Books	2	19	45	N	N	Out of his Depth	Russell Weigley needs to stay away from the military history of combat operations.  He is seemingly uncomfortable with it, and doesn't understand soldiers.  He is at his best writing organizational histories or  theoretical works, such as his History of the United States Army.<br />His  analysis is flawed in this volume, especially as it refers to the top  American commanders and the military virtues and abilities of British  general Bernard Montgomery.<br />He is too worshipful of Eisenhower, whose  military credentials I have yet to figure out, and is also too laudatory of  Bradley, another combat neophyte at the beginning of World War II.  Weigley  does not give Patton his just due, which is unfortunate.<br />Patton was the  only allied general the Germans were afraid of.  He led in the 'old Army'  style and was a wounded and decorated veteran of WW I.  An excellent  tactician and strategist, he sw opportunity where Eisenhower and Bradley  only saw danger and risk (Patton made the remark that when the two of them  got together, they turned timid).  Eisenhower and Bradley did poorly in the  Ardennes in late 1944, and had their reputations and much esle saved by  Patton's daring advance on Bastogne with four divisions, which surprised  the Germans, relieved Bastogne, and turned the battle around.  For this  herculean effort, he received no thanks from either.  Mant gomery's solid  performance on the northern flank of the Bulge received little in the way  of gratitude.<br />Eisenhower as supreme commander couldn't lose the war,  given the preponderance of men and equipment that he had.  However, it was  important how he won it.  His timidity and plodding broad front advance  failed to reach Berlin when he could have, and pulled patton out of Prague,  which was promptly occupied by the Russians and doomed the Czech's to  occupation, plundering, and more suffering.  Much of the problems of the  cold war can be laid at Eisenhower's feet.<br />Weigley fails to bring any of  this out, thereby selling certain gallant gentlemen, in addition to Patton,  very short on their contributions in Europe.  This volume has some value as  the events are correct.  As an analysis of generalship, it is poor-as  military history, it fails.of  this out, thereby selling certain gallant gentlemen, in addition to Patton,  very short on their contributions in Europe.  This volume has some value as  the events are correct.  As an analysis of generalship, it is poor-as  military history, it fails.	2000-07-18
US	50174289	R3LIZJ1E2UV43J	0195130553	954046377	Burr, Hamilton, and Jefferson: A Study in Character	Books	1	14	33	N	N	A New Face on Treason	No book, no matter how well-written, is a valid history if its premise is not proven or at least thrown open for debate.  This volume is an attempt to resurrect or 'white-wash' Aaron Burr, one of the early personalities in  the history of the United States who, with the rogue-traitor james  Wilkinson, attempted to sell out his own country for his own pecuniary  gain.  He was found not guilty in three treason trials, and he did incur  the enmity of both Hamilton and Jefferson, but a not guilty vote does not  prove innocence, only that guilt hasn't been proven.  We have seen that in  the recent past.<br />The author apologizes for Burr, who has been shown by  credible historians to have been a scoundrel.  Treason is downplayed in  this volume, as it has been in our recent history, unfortunately, and the  author has taken political correctness just one more step.  He can't prove  his thesis, so Burr is painted as merely a crafty politician, which is then  presented as perfectly acceptable in what he does.<br />Jefferson was  anti-Constitution, anti-federal government, yet was the first President to  increase the power of the Presidency.  He was also anti-militiary and did  his level best to hobble the infant miltary structure of the United States  that, with the continuing policies of his designated successor Madison,  left the United States woefully unprepared for the War of 1812 that could  have resulted in the destruction of the country.  This could have been  brought out and expounded upon.<br />Hamilton, in my opinion, was the most  admirable of the three-one of the Founders that was instrumental in getting  the Constitution ratified as the author of most of the Federalist papers.  He was also a bona fide hero of the Revolution who remained loyal to his  country-something Burr failed to do.<br />This book is nothing but an attempt  to whitewash a scoundrels activities to betray his country.  It both paints  a false picture and fails to prove its thesis.	2000-07-18
US	50174289	R2QCQOSUNX77YA	0306806177	303603702	Battles Of The Revolutionary War: 1775-1781 (Major Battles and Campaigns ; 3)	Books	5	64	71	N	N	Accurate, Well-Researched, Stirringly Told	This is one of the best books on the battles of the American Revolution.  having much of the smell of gunpowder about it, the author tells a straightforward tale of courage, hardship, defeat, and, finally, victory by  an army of hard-bitten Continentals who became professionals through  endurance, deadly on the job training, and the leadership of some of the  best combat commanders in American history.<br />Wood gives credit where  credit is due, and woe to the leader or soldier that incurs his wrath and  disdain.  He pulls no punches, and his incisive narrative and wry wit are  as sharp as a sabre slash.  There is no beating around the bush here, and  you can tell who and what he admires, and what he doesn't.<br />The  Continental Army may have been the best, most enduring army in American  history.  No American army ever had to endure, both from the type of  hardship to the length of wartime service, that the Continentals did.  They  won because of three things:  Washington, their own hard-won skill at arms,  and the French intervention.  These three factors are brought out in  evidence in this volume.  This excellent piece of scholarship and tale of  high deeds beongs on every enthusiasts bookshelf and should be read and  reread until the lessons sink in.	2000-07-18
US	50174289	RLV5RK1G5N797	0700606572	173741137	Founding Fathers: Brief Lives of the Framers of the United States Constitution Second Edition, Revised	Books	1	40	109	N	N	Badly Documented, Flawed Premise	I have the original title, In Worthy Company, and while I agree with the author that the Founders were indeed worthy and gave us a Republic that has endured, the book's premise, that the Founders were Christians and that, by  default, what they wrought is based on Christianity and the Bible, is  flawed<br />The Founders were men of all faiths, Deists, Freemasons, and free  thinkers.  They were children of the Enlightenment and the Age of Reason,  well-versed in the classics, and fully aware that English Common Law was  descended from Roman Law, Saxon Law, and the Danelaw, none of which were  Bible or Christian based.<br />There is a growing revisionist movement that is  trying to prove that the Constitution is Bible based, which is false, and  this revisionism is flawed history, a type of 'make it up as you go' and  this volume is, unfortunately, in that category.  It is badly researched,  not documented at all well, and some of it is blatantly inaccurate.  The  author's treatment of the War of the Revolution in the section on George  Washington is semi-fiction.<br />For an accurate, well-researched account of  the origins of American political thought, Bernard Bailyn is a much better  and reliable historian.	2000-07-18
US	50174289	R1QJTEDNCCM2O	1896941036	739471146	Where Right and Glory Lead! The Battle of Lundy's Lane, 1814	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Gritty, Accurate Military History	Donald Graves is the authority on the campaigns on the Niagara frontier during the War of 1812.  Of his three five books on the period and campaigns, this is the best one.  It tells the story of a fight that was  one of the fiercest fought on the North American continent, even though the  numbers on both sides were very small.  One British officer who  participated, and who had experienced wwarfare in Europe during the period,  said it was the hardest, most savage fight he had ever been in.  Both sides  literally shot each other to pieces, ending in darkness, confusion, and a  very unsatisfying draw.<br />This book is highly recommended.  It, along with  Graves other books, and those by John Elting and Henry Adams, give the  complete story of the War of 1812, the huge amount of territory over which  it was fought by small 'armies', the drama, inexperience of the Americans  that finally grew into budding professionalism, and the bright moments at  sea when the yearling US Navy humbled the proud, seeminly invincible Royal  Navy.<br />Well-written authoritative text that is easy to read, exciting  narrative, well-researched and very reliable, this book is one of the best  of its type, and the author is one of the best living militiary historians.	2000-07-18
US	50174289	R2SHCJ5F49AIA0	0807813869	36923625	Daniel Morgan: Revolutionary Rifleman (Published by the Omohundro Institute of Early American History and Culture and the University of North Carolina Press)	Books	3	32	46	N	N	Well-researched; Good, Not Great	Daniel Morgan is one of the most interesting personalities of the American Revolution.  He did not, as the author seems to believe, however, win the war single handed.  He did, though, fight and win the only battle of  annihilation at cowpens in January 1781, executing a double envelopment of  a British force of equal strength possessing more reliable troops,  regulars, than he did.  In this victory, though, he was ably assisted by  some of the best combat officers in either army, John Eager Howard, and  William Washington, cousin of the commmander-in-chief.<br />This biography is  helpful, informative, but not definitive.  The underlying premise, which is  more pronounced in the author's other work on the Revolution, is that the  militia contributed more to the winning of the revolution that they are  given credit for.  This is incorrect.  the militia was, as Washington  stated, a broken reed.  The American Regulars, the Continentals, were the  mainstay of the military effort.  They stayed and fought, and sometimes  lost, after the militia had taken 'French leave' (left early or gone AWOL).<br />Still, Morgan deserves his due, which he certainly gets in this volume,  and then some.  One of the better American commanders, he ranks with John  Stark, Nathaniel Greene, Otho Holland Williams, and Baron de Kalb as one of  the best battlefield commanders of the war, and a superb leader of  men.<br />This book is recommended.	2000-07-18
US	50174289	R2NSL8DRCKD4CZ	1872727328	5294841	The Great Book of Britains: 100 Years of Britains Toy Soldiers 1893-1993	Books	5	19	20	N	N	Monumental, Definitive, and a Must Have	I received my first set of old Britains lead toy soldiers when I was five years old.  Two sets, actually, the cavalry and infantry display sets of Union and Confederate troops of the American Civil War were under the  Christmas tree and I played with them until they literally fell apart,  except for one Union infantryman which I still have.<br />I was hooked, and I  scrimped and saved to get the ocassional set for myself when going down to  the old Buffums' Department Store in downtown Long Beach, California  through grade school and high school.  Metal and plastic, swoppet knights  and Guradsmen, Waterloo artillery and French Zouaves, they all found their  way into my modest collection, to end up in boxes in my closet until one  day in 1987 when I bought one of James Opies' superb books on Britains and  the bug hit again.  I broght out the old figures, put them on display and  started to buy the old veterans on the secondary market, to where I now  have over 2,000 of them and my modest collection is becoming somewhat  definitive.<br />This book, which chronicles the output of Britains for 100  years is indispensable to the collector and enthusiast.  If you don't own  it, you are missing out on a visual treat, seeing soldiers produced by  Britains that you may not know even exist.  As I restore and convert the  old broken ones I find, it is also invaluable as a photographic record of  Britains immense output over the years.<br />The book was issued a Britains  catalogue number, was issued in two 'versions', one with a set of four new  figures, two Scots' Greys and two fusiliers, in a box, the other with a  dustcover.<br />The book IS expensive, but well worth the cost, and I have  used it innumerable times to research a figure, read the text, or to just  enjoy the pictures.<br />I have over 4,000 total Britains now, old and new,  metal and plastice, and the collection has grown in large part because of  James Opie, and his books, especially this one.	2000-07-10
US	50174289	R2D719OE0LKA2Y	069100806X	854429271	Clausewitz and the State	Books	5	3	4	N	N	The Real Clausewitz	Clausewitz was not a god of war, nor an advocate of the waging of war for war's, or conquest's, sake.  He was a thoughtful, experienced soldier who saw much service, wrote about his experiences and tried to improve the  armed forces of his country, Prussia.<br />This exceptional book by Peter  Paret not only gives interesting information on Clausewitz the soldier and  the man, but also explains the interesting enigma that was Prussia before,  during, and after the Napoleonic Wars.  This is not a companion book to  anything, but a well-researched volume that stands on its own as  authoritative history.<br />Paret goes into detail on why Prussia was  defeated, and its army destroyed by Napoleon in the cataclysm of 1806.  Conversely, the thoughtful, professional soldiers who sought to rebuild  that army, 'with vengeance very much in mind' are developed to the extent  that they are perceived as human without the false front of a textbook.<br />Excellently reserarched from original sources and credible secondary  ones, Paret also goes in depth to cover the Prussian 'War of Liberation' of  Germany from the French, the liberation in large part meaning annexation by  Prussia.  Additionally, he also explains that the Prussian civilian  population, somewhat a thing apart from the Prussian army, was persuaded,  by force if necessary, to participate in the wars in 1813-1814.<br />This book  goes a long way into explaining Clausewitz and his times, is worth  favorable, consideration, and belongs on the bookshelf of every thoughtful  student.	2000-07-06
US	50174289	R3HCOZ5M037DIY	0807846066	549679104	A Revolutionary People At War: The Continental Army and American Character, 1775-1783	Books	5	31	32	N	N	Lock, Stock, and Barrel	This is an excellent study of the Continental Army without which the Revolution would not have been won.  Charles Royster is a first class historian and this is one of the best, if not the best, book he has  written.<br />It is something of a social history and it gives a complete  account of what the Continental army was like, its motivation, origins, and  development, warts and all.  I cannot think of another work that covers  this topic as well as this one.<br />One of the most interesting facets of the  book, though, is the appendix that covers statistics and the motivation of  the Continentals.  This gives a true and accurate picture of the  Continentals and give them a human face.  They weren't demigods, but  soldiers who enlisted in an army that had a hard task ahead, and who  sometimes failed, always endured, and finally won.  In many ways it was the  toughest, best army the US ever fielded.  It definitely was the most  enduring-no other American military force suffered from and finally  overcame such an imposing set of obstacles.  This book gives a much more  accurate picture of the Continental Army than Charles Neimeter's American  Goes To War.  Charles Royster has a definite story to tell and he tells it  with verve, panache, accuracy, and a definite empathy for his subject.  This book is a definite must for any student of the American Revolution	2000-07-06
US	50174289	RCO2GD02N2B5M	0814757820	584637183	America Goes to War: A Social History of the Continental Army (The American Social Experience)	Books	1	11	35	N	N	Maggie's Drawers	I picked up this book expecting a history of the effectiveness of the Continental Army, especially as compared to the British and German forces which it had to fight.  Before the advent of Baron con Steuben, the  Continentals were at a distinct disadvantage, especially as regards to  drill, discipline, and the ability to maneuver in the open and slug it out  toe to toe with the European professionals.  What I found was something  totally different.<br />What the author is attempting to demonstrate is some  type of soldier-worker who would bargain for his wages and not fight for  the ideology of the Revolution.  OK, so what?  Immigrants, blacks, boys,  deserters, and shiftless natives with no roots in the community were taken  into the Continental Army and finally led with skill and bravery to defeat  the veteran opponents led with equal skill.  Very few armies in history  generally fight for an ideology-they fight to win and they fight for their  own survival.  What the author has given us is a social history more akin  to 20th century left-wing denigration of the armed forces than a true  social history of the Continental Army which would have been valuable.<br />In short, this small volume doesn't cut it, is mch less valuable than  the works of Robert Wright, Charles Royster, and Harold Peterson.  The  bottom line is not what the man in the ranks came from, but that he endured  and he won sometines against overwhelming odds.  No other army in American  history underwent the hardships the Continentals did, or the length of  service in wartime.  In this, the author completely misses the mark and has  given us an idealogical diatribe which is an excuse, not good history.	2000-07-06
US	50174289	R10D51R01O6LDJ	0805062912	390089534	The Long Gray Line: The American Journey of West Point's Class of 1966	Books	5	60	62	N	N	Superb History-Snapshot of an Era	I found out about this book when it first came out and I was stationed in Washington DC.  It was of immediate interest to me, as my brother, a member of the West Point Class of 1964, had been killed in action in Vietnam, and  was mentioned in the book.  I called the author introduced myself and told  him how much I liked the book and who I was.<br />Rick Atkinson is not only  a superb author, he is a fine man, and this book is an accurate tribute to,  not only the class he chronicles in the story, but to the American fighting  man in Vietanm as a whole.<br />If you want an even, unbiased account of part  of the war in Vietnam, this is it.  It is much better than the highly  touted Bright Shining Lie, of which I don't think too highly, and is one of  the best books written on Vietnam.  Atkinson tells the tale with aplomb,  wit, empathy, and just plain good writing.  Accurate and entertaining, you  really can't put it down.<br />I have also read his book Crusade on the Gulf  War, of which I was a participant, and it was the best book I read on the  subject.  If the book is written by Rick Atkinson, buy it and read it-you  won't be disappointed.	2000-07-05
US	50174289	R20Y02YSCLMD98	0471327166	75102432	The Road to Guilford Courthouse: The American Revolution in the Carolinas	Books	4	24	24	N	N	An Excellent Campaign Study	If you're looking for a book on the Battle of Guilford Courthouse, this isn't it.  Fewer than 25 pages are dedicated to it near the end of the book.<br />However, this is one of the best campaign studies on Greene's  southern campaigns that I have ever read.  The author's treatment of the  campaign as a whole is masterful, and of the Retreat to the Dan in  particular, is superb.  He presents to the reader what could be a very  confusing chain of events, and puts them in logical order to give a  sequence that is easy to follow and highly informative.<br />This is  military history at its best and it gives a more than clear picture of the  campaign that led directly to Yorktown and American (and French) victory  over the British.<br />Nathaniel Greene was one of the most effective and  talented commanders this country has ever produced.  Never winning a  battle, but always winning his campaigns, he is an American Turenne, and  one of the American commanders the British feared.<br />This volume belongs on  the bookshelf of every military history enthusiast of the period.	2000-07-05
US	50174289	R15HALX6PK0PSR	025328029X	97749570	The American Way of War: A History of United States Military Strategy and Policy	Books	3	10	25	N	Y	Not Definitive, and Flawed	Russell Weigley is a good historian when it comes to such topics as the organizational history of a military organization, such as his excellent History of the United States Army.<br />This book is somewhat pedantic, a  little too boring, and written by an historian who doesn't appear to  understand soldiers or soldiering.  When writing of how a country has waged  war, and how it may continue to do so, this is a must, and it hasn't been  demonstrated here.<br />There is value here, though, and it should be read by  all and sundry.  For a better understanding of the American soldier, and  how and why he fights, perhaps a better choice is American Army Life by  John Elting.<br />In my opinion, as both a soldier and an historian, is that  Professor Weigley was a little out of his depth here, and attempted to  categorize how American armies and their generals choose to fight their  wars.  It isn't as simple, nor as complicated as the author attempts to  demonstrate.	2000-07-05
US	50174289	R8GFPM2EMAD18	068485628X	996959617	The Victors: Eisenhower and His Boys: The Men of World War II	Books	1	6	8	N	N	Misses The Mark	I read this book looking forward to the same level of scholarship, detail, and analysis that I had found in his earlier book on the British coup de main on the Orne River Bridges.  Sadly, it wasn't there.<br />Ambrose is at  this best with anecdotal history.  His personal accounts of what individual  troops said and did are truly at the level of Eric Hammel and other  historians of that genre.  However, when he gets to the analysis level of  warfare, he is out ofhis depth.<br />It is only a matter of opinion, of  course, but his overly reverent attitude towards Eisenhower shadows  commanders of more worth, and who actually kept Eisenhower out of trouble.  He doesn't like Patton, who was the only American general the Germans were  scared of (and who remarked that every time Eisenhower and Bradley got  together they turned timid).  He isn't rel keen on Montgomery either.<br />Eisenhower was in a war he couldn't lose.  The main contention was how  well he would win it.  Never having been in combat was a major hindrance,  and he missed opportunities that he saw as potential failures, that were  worth taking the risk to win big and early.  Refusing to take Berlin and  ordering Patton out of Prague were two mistakes that led, in my opinion, to  the prolonged mess of the Cold War.  Never an audaucious combat leader, he  was more concerned with not losing than winning.  He was surprised and  nearly defeated in the Bulge, and gave no credit at all for Patton saving  both his reputation and the battle.  This the author misses, which hurts  him greatly as a military historian.<br />Blind hero worship we don't need,  but good analysis.  This keeps this, and his other recent works, in the  third tier of reliable military history.	2000-07-05
US	50174289	R39R5MOUOW522Y	0807824348	938566437	A Devil of a Whipping: The Battle of Cowpens	Books	3	14	29	N	N	Good, But Flawed	I was nearly put off reading this book while going through the preface and coming upon the last sentence which ended with 'and resulted in a more accurate view of Cowpens than any study presented before.'  That bothered  me somewhat, but I decided to carry on and finish.<br />Overall, the book is a  fair try, and has much good information in it.  There is, however, the  smell of printer's ink, and not gunpowwder, unfortunately, about this book.  The over-reliance on pension applications, written much too long after the  events portrayed in the book, is a serious flaw, as we old soldiers have a  very bad habit of 'remembering with advantages.'  I'm not saying don't use  them in research, I'm saying you have to use them with care, and that has  not been done here.<br />Cowpens was crucial to the success of the southern  campaign, which in many respects is the campaign that set up the big win at  Yorktown.  Morgan pulled off a battle of annihilation at Cowpens, and it  was the tactical masterpiece of the Revolution.  I do think, though, that  the role of the Continental Regulars at Cowpens is underplayed.  Without  them, Morgan couln't have fought there at all, let alone win the action.  These veteran marchers and killers were the equal, if not the superior of,  their British opponents.  The only trouble is that there were not enough of  them, and the American generals had to rely on the dubious militia, whom  Washington considered a broken reed.<br />This is a good book, and it should  be read, but it has to be used with care, especially if it is going to be  used as a reference.  The author's methodology is flawed, which detracts  from what could have been a definitive and superb volume of American  military history.	2000-07-05
US	50174289	R37DDQ71E65E8E	0815410131	50203191	The War of 1812	Books	5	59	68	N	N	The Definitive History	In the introduction to this superb volume, Col John Elting, who has written his own version of the military history of this forgotten war, which is also a must have, states 'If you read only one history of that  war, it still should be Adams!'<br />As a definite Elting fan, that is enough  for me to buy, read, and use the book.  It should also be enough for any  historian/reader to buy this volume.<br />An extract of the much larger A  History of the United States during the Administrations of Jefferson and  Madison published almost a century ago, this history of a war the United  States almost lost was originally published by the Infantry Journal at Fort  Benning, GA.  It was, and still is, the best one volume history of that  war.<br />Adams had access to US Government papers and spent almost three  years in European archives, many of those references now unfortunately lost  because of two world wars.  What he gives you is both the military and  diplomatic side, and also some interesting views of the events interaction  with the larger 'disagreement' going on at the time in Europe centering  around Napoleon, Emperor of the French.<br />What you see is what you get.  It  is a great story, boldly and accurately told that has stood the test of  time.  It is highly recommended, and the introduction by Col Elting neatly  says it all.  The best purely military history is Col Elting's Amateurs! To  Arms.  Taken together they are incredible-two books you will never forget  and will read and reread.	2000-07-02
US	50174289	R2CYW934P0EGVM	1853672769	889682399	The Greenhill Napoleonic Wars Data Book	Books	3	17	19	N	N	Good, not Great	I have a love/hate relationship with this book.  I really wanted to get it and use it, as well as have it on hand, but I don't fully trust it.  It is exhaustive, has a veritable treasure trove of information in it, but it  isn't that easy to use, and at times is a little confusing.<br />Arranged by  year and date, the battles, sieges, actions, and combats are arranged so  that it is relatively easy to look up, but the information doesn't always  agree with standard works on the period.<br />For, example, Durenstein is  listed as an allied victory in 1805, and elsewhere it is called a French  one; Davout's victory over Bagration in 1812, a rather significant one,  isn't even listed. Bottom line, in my opinion, there needs to be a  revision, and soon.<br />This book is recommended, and it is very useful;  however, it is not the Holy Grail, and it is definitely not a definitive  work.	2000-07-02
US	50174289	R3Q2XWICXCKTP4	0300073852	555265226	Tactics and the Experience of Battle in the Age of Napoleon	Books	4	14	19	N	N	A Valuable Resource and a Good Read	There is a case that can be made that this book should have been entitled British Tactics and the Experience of Battle in the Age of Napoleon, but this is still a valuable work that should be read and can be used with  confidence as a reference.<br />There IS a lot of material on the British army  of the Napoleonic Wars, and it is relatively easy to find, as it is in  English.  It gets harder to get information the further eastward you travel  in Europe as the languages get just a little more exotic and harder to  learn and understand.  A basic knowledge of French and German is a definite  bonus, but not everyone has those requisite language skills.<br />This book is  lively, well-researched and does give some very interesting first hand  accounts from the French point of view, as well as the Prussian.  I would  not be too quick to condemn the author's significant effort, and if this  book is used as intended it can be most enjoyable and very useful.<br />Much  better than Nosworthy's With Musket, Cannon, and Sword, both for accuracy  and familiarity with the subject, this book is strongly recommended for  both the enthusiast and the historian.	2000-07-02
US	50174289	R20YZDSRAB3IF6	1853671304	731478292	With Eagles to Glory: Napoleon and His German Allies in the 1809 Campaign (Napoleonic Library)	Books	5	21	23	N	N	The Definitive Work on the Subject	This is undoubtedly the definitive work on the armies of the Confederation of the Rhine during the Campaign of 1809.  Jack Gill has masterfully told this story with verve, accuracy, wit, and a thorough knowledge of his  subject.<br />Confronted with an invasion of his ally, Bavaria, in the  spring of 1809 while still deeply involved in a campaign in Spain, Napoleon  had to rely on a contingent of over 50,000 German troops from the  Confederation of the Rhine to fight the Austrians.  Launching their  invasion without a declaration of war, the Austrians hoped to surprise and  defeat the Grande Armee and Napoleon, thus reestablishing their preeminence  in central Europe.  What follows is a tale of high valor, professional  skill, and dedication to duty of these loyal allies of Napoleon and it is a  tale told with comsummate skill by the author.<br />Using primary source  material in German from myriad sources, each country and army from the  Confederation is covered from muzzle to buttplate.  Organization, tactics,  leadership, uniforms, and combat contributions are all covered thoroughly  and this is not only the definitive work on the subject in English, but it  is a superv reference work for further study.<br />This book has set the  standard for any author hoping to write a book of this type or on this  subject.  In short, it is simple superb and it fills a definite void that  existed in the literature of the period before its publication.  It belongs  on every Napoleonic bookshelf.	2000-07-01
US	50174289	RNCIGAOO4L3PD	155750654X	608654432	The Naval War of 1812 (Chatham Pictorial Histories)	Books	5	7	7	N	Y	Fighting Afloat	This may first appear to be nothing but one of those historical 'picture books' and it is profusely illustrated, but it is much more than that.  Well-research, historically correct text, and well-organized, it is one of  the best books on the topic on the market today.<br />Robert Gardiner  continues his study of naval warfare in the age of sail with this excellent  study, covering the war at sea, the war on the lakes, privateers, and the  arsoniistic adventures of the British Admirals, Cockburn and Cochrane, up  and down the Chesapeake and the eastern seaboard of the United States,  although this last is somewhat played down.<br />The early American frigate  victories, the frantic shipbuilding and fighting on the Great Lakes, the  sloop duels in the open sea, Porter's adventures in the pacific aboard the  USS Essex, Lawrence losing the USS Chesapeake to HMS Shannon, while  uttering the famous, 'Don't give up the ship!' which Perry later uses as  his battle cry at the victory on Lake Erie, the famous and profitable  voyages of the American privateer Prince de Neuchatel (a superb model of  which is in the Smithsonian, by the way), all are thoroughly and colorfully  covered in this must have volume on a little studied war.<br />It is in larger  than normal format, and looks something like a coffee table book, but don't  be fooled.  The narrative is exciting, facts not commonly in evidence are  chronicled here, and the illustrations are superb.  This is a must buy and  a must have.	2000-07-01
US	50174289	RL7IXZO34BUNJ	0306806533	861990583	Amateurs, To Arms!: A Military History Of The War Of 1812 (Major Battles and Campaigns)	Books	5	13	13	N	N	To Learn The Profession of Arms	This is the best military history of the War of 1812 that has been written since Henry Adams penned his monumental work on the Administrations of Jefferson and Madison, which included the War of 1812, over a century ago.  In short, this work is indispensable in studying this little known and  truly forgotten war.<br />The War of 1812 is little studied in the United  States, either by military professionals or the public in general, and it  should be.  There are parallels and lessons for our own times here.  The  United States Navy and the Regular Army were horribly neglected by both the  Jefferson and Madison administrations, yet they both conducted foreign  wars, at the same time not trusting standing or professional military  forces.  They both preferred to trust the dubious value of the militia,  which was under-trained, badly led and equipped.<br />The excellent little  navy established and maintained by the Washington and Adams administrations  was allowed to deteriorate before the declaration of war in June 1812.  The  army was hastile built up with militia for the proposed invasion of Canada,  the conquest of which, according to president emeritus Jefferson, would  only be a 'matter of marching.'  That from him who had never shouldered a  musket, and stood in ranks taking fire from British Regulars.<br />What ensued  was the army playing catchup after early disasters, and the navy, without  orders and direction, decided to 'fight its own war.'  Those captains  courageous went to sea with what they had, picked fights with the Royal  Navy and stunned the world, and the Royal Navy, with superb ship against  ship victories and the destruction of two British squadrons on the  Lakes.<br />There is high valor in this lively tale, as well as treason,  apathy, and incompetence.  There is also a dedicated group of soldiers,  sailors, and Marines, who learned their trade on the hop, and fought the  British Empire to a standstill, clubbing out a sneaker of a victory that  was definitely a 'near run thing.'<br />This tale has been told before, but  never with the skill, wit, accuracy, and color that John Elting has told  it.  This book is a must for everyone interested in American history and  the Napoleonic period.hat  was definitely a 'near run thing.'<br />This tale has been told before, but  never with the skill, wit, accuracy, and color that John Elting has told  it.  This book is a must for everyone interested in American history and  the Napoleonic period.	2000-07-01
US	50174289	R1X9I9L4DK9UU8	0811705196	621732107	Don Troiani's Soldiers in America 1754-1865	Books	5	10	10	N	N	A Superb Reference and History	This book is a must for anyone with an interest in Ameican Military History.  Don Troiani is undoubtedly the best military artist in the United States today, and the only one I am aware of who paints Revolutionary War  and War of 1812 subjects.<br />The art in this volume is superb, and the  photos of the origianl artifacts definitely enhance the project.  The  excellent text by James Kochan and Earl Coates accurately chronicle the  periods covered.<br />This is not a coffee table book, but a carefully  researched work of militiary history that is useful for historians,  enthusiasts, military modelers and toy soldier collectors, as well as  period reenactors.  It is one of the books I would run back to save if my  house was on fire.  It is simply that good and belongs of the book shelf of  everyone interested in American military history up to and including the  Civil War.	2000-06-25
US	50174289	RCIZ6KUO5QFRC	2908182769	898517847	Jena Auerstadt: The Triumph of the Eagle (Great Battles of the First Empire)	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Pursuit to Destruction	The Jena/Auerstadt Campaign was the only example during the entire period of the Napoleonic Wars where a defeated army was pursued and hunted down to its near-complete destruction.  In just six weeks of fighting, marching,  and maneuvering, the tough, veteran Grande Armee, led by its terrible  Emperor, completely destroyed the vaunted Prussian Army which had inherited  the traditions of the Great Frederick.  Except for units in East Prussia,  that army was gone.<br />Dr. Hourtoulle has methodically told that story, and  profusely illustrated it, in this visual treat of a book that is one of the  most enjoyable just to look at in my Napleonic library.  Both sides are  equally represented, and there are reproductions of the superb Girbal  plates that vividly punctuate and illustrate the straightforward  narrative.<br />Units, bands, colors, artillery pieces and equipment, all are  illustrated in this superb volume.  Orders of battle and small biographies,  service records, and daata on individuals in the Grande Armee are all  throught the narrative, as well as plenty of personality protraits.<br />What  we have been given is a verbal and eye-pleasing treat-all we have to do is  take it off the shelf and use it.  Highly recommended.	2000-06-24
US	50174289	R2X4VC9J0WI8K9	1853673137	868252981	The Note-Books of Captain Coignet: Soldier of the Empire, 1799-1816 (Greenhill Military Paperback)	Books	5	13	13	N	N	An 'Old Sweat' Tells His Tale	This is one of the top three Napoleonic memoirs that I would recommend, the other two being Parquins Souvenirs, and In the Legions of Napoleon by Brandt.  Jean-Roche Coignet started as an illiterate private, and worked  his way up to Captain in the Imperial Guard, one of those loyal,  ever-present, tough as nails Grumblers that marched and fought the length  and breadth of Europe.<br />Coignet distinguishes himself in his first fight  at Montebello in northern Italy in 1800 and is rewarded with a loaf of  bread by Berthier, Napoleon's chief of staff.  He is almost killed a few  days later at Marengo, one of the few who survived in his company, and  getting whacked over the shoulder by an Austrian cavalryman, which does  effectively cut off his qeue, which saves his life.<br />He is one of the  first recipients of the Legion of Honor in 1804, serves throughout the wars  all the way to Waterloo, and kills a Prussian officer in a one-on-one  contest between the lines outside of Paris.  The Prussian was yelling  insults and made him angry.<br />This is a great tale, well told by a loyal,  hardworking, very good soldier who did more than his assigned duty.  I have  a picture of Jea-Roche Coignet, a photograph taken in old age-he still  looks as if he could eat nails for breakfast, and wouldn't take too kindly  of insults against his Emperor.  Just seeing the picture made me believe  the book.	2000-06-24
US	50174289	R3VCPPQOPT1DSR	155750962X	361565700	Warships of the Napoleonic Era (Blueprint Series (Annapolis, Md.).)	Books	5	15	15	N	N	The Intricacies of Ship Design	Robert Gardiner has done us all a great service with his series of books on the sailing navies, and the war in which they engaged.  This book is no different and is a valuable addition to the series.<br />It is a book of  sailing ship plans of all the main, and some of the smaller, belligerents  of the French Revolutionaly and Napoleonic Wars.  It is somewhat on the  line of Chappelle's superb History of the American Sailing Navy, although  not as comprehensive.  Still, it is scholarly, has Admiralty plans of  dozens of warships, from the ship of the line, through frigates, sloops,  and brigs, to the lowly bomb ketches.<br />The narrative is authoritative, and  the author knows his subject matter thoroughly.  This is not a book about  naval warfare per se; it is a book about ship design among the different  belligerents.  I didn't consider it one for pleasure reading, but more of a  reference work that can be a great aid to researchers, modelers, and  wargamers.<br />This book is highly recommended, but it you're looking for a  book that 'telleth of much fyte,' this is not it.  For that I recommend  others by Robert Gardiner such as his excellent Naval War of 1812.  I am  looking forward to his book on frigates, which will be a welcome addition  to the genre.	2000-06-24
US	50174289	RTY4PIB0CI96Z	1853673498	634353825	On The Napoleonic Wars (Napoleonic Library)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Thoughts and Actions...	This is the best book David Chandler has written, put together, or edited, or all three.  The book consists of 16 essays on the period. They are presented in the usual crisp narrative we have come to expect from David Chandler. The chapters are presented in chronological order and range from the reconquest of Egypt in 1801 through the battles of Maida and Sahagun to the strange but fascinating tale of an undergroom in 1815. The two best chapters, in my opinion, are on Maida 1806 and Marengo in 1800. Chandler covers Maida in a much more thorough, accurate manner than Oman did in his Studies in the Napoleonic Wars. The chapter on Marengo covers, not the fighting on the battlefield of June of 1800, but the frustrating writings of the three versions of the battle by the French.<br /><br />In the essay on Marengo Chandler tells of Colonel Pascal Vallongue of the Depot de Guerre, an honest officer trying to do his duty, and producing a generally accurate version of Marengo in 1803. First pleasing Napoleon, the then First Consul orders a changed rewrite that has the battle going exactly as planned. All copies of the original are ordered burned, but a War Ministry clerk saves one by hiding it under his blotter.<br /><br /> The report is changed yet again, and Chandler lays out the sequence of confusing events in such a way that it is clearly understood how and why it was done and who was responsible for the `evolution' of Napoleon's ordered rewrite of history.<br /><br />The weaknesses of the volume are the last two chapters where Chandler again attempts to analyze Napoleon as well as comment on a 'Jominian Legacy.' In my opinion, he largely fails here, and it is another attempt to try and fit a square peg in a round whole, attempting to reconcile Napoleon's method of waging war into a formula.<br /><br />The use of anything by Jomini can be judged as suspect, not only for Jomini's obvious character flaws, but also because of Jomini's myriad inaccuracies, which fatally hurts the author's analysis.<br /><br />Still, this is a most valuable book that should be read by all students of the period. It is entertaining, lively, and except for the last two chapters, some of the best work Chandler ever produced.s the author's analysis.<br /><br />Still, this is a most valuable book that should be read by all students of the period. It is entertaining, lively, and except for the last two chapters, some of the best work Chandler ever produced.	2000-06-23
US	50174289	R29U6RPOW72QYX	0025236601	942870969	The Campaigns of Napoleon	Books	3	12	18	N	N	Napoleon's Way of War...	This volume is usually touted as the best operational study of Napoleon's campaigns.  I heartily disagree.  The best operational study of the Emperor's campaigns to my mind is A Military History and Atlas of the Napoleonic Wars by Brigadier Vincent J. Esposito and Colonel John R. Elting, published two years before Campaigns came out.  This unique volume, which was republished in 1999 by Greenhill in England in the same large format, was designed and written as a text book for cadets at the United States Military Academy, West Point.  Not only are the maps outstanding, but the text is one of the best written as a campaign study of any war or series of wars.<br /><br />I have read, and do own, both books.  I read the Atlas before I tackled Campaigns and not only is the Atlas much easier to read and understand, it is more to the point and reveals a depth of understanding of both Napoleon and the period that is not evident the Campaigns.<br /><br />One aspect of the book that completely misses the mark is the section on the author's `analysis' of Napoleon's method of waging war.  It appears to be an attempt at putting round pegs in round holes, and goes into some detail of how the Emperor supposedly waged his campaigns.  The impression given as the section is read is somewhat pedantic and it generally misses the mark.  Napoleon's methods were very simple-he usually struck first, attempted to get into the enemy's rear areas and cut his lines of communication in order to force the enemy to fight at a distinct disadvantage.  This is very evident in both the Marengo and Ulm campaigns.  At other times, such as in Italy in 1796 and in Belgium in 1815, Napoleon would strategically go on the offensive against a numerical superior enemy and wedge his army between the two halves of the opposing force with the idea of defeating each in detail by bringing superior mass against them one at a time.  Sometimes it worked, and sometimes, as in 1815, it eventually did not.<br /><br />However, attempting to codify the Emperor's `way of war' unnecessarily clouds the issue with unnecessary detail and ends up being confusing as well as being inaccurate overall and painting an inaccurate picture of Napoleonic warfare.<br /><br />Having read both books initially in high school, I was intrigued that one necessarily followed the other with an inferior, though a much longer, work.  Both books are very valuable, but to accord Campaigns with the laurels that it has received is to give either short-shrift to the Atlas, or ignore it altogether.  That would be a mistake.<br /><br />Campaigns, however, is a valuable book and is recommended to be read and used with care.  Some of the references are suspect, such as the alleged memoirs of Bourrienne among others, but overall this is a valuable work, though its use as a definitive source is discouraged.ever, attempting to codify the Emperor's `way of war' unnecessarily clouds the issue with unnecessary detail and ends up being confusing as well as being inaccurate overall and painting an inaccurate picture of Napoleonic warfare.<br /><br />Having read both books initially in high school, I was intrigued that one necessarily followed the other with an inferior, though a much longer, work.  Both books are very valuable, but to accord Campaigns with the laurels that it has received is to give either short-shrift to the Atlas, or ignore it altogether.  That would be a mistake.<br /><br />Campaigns, however, is a valuable book and is recommended to be read and used with care.  Some of the references are suspect, such as the alleged memoirs of Bourrienne among others, but overall this is a valuable work, though its use as a definitive source is discouraged.	2000-06-22
US	50174289	R1IKHU0CSWZ8IO	1853672505	437747668	Imperial Bayonets: Tactics of the Napoleonic Battery, Battalion and Brigade As Found in Contemporary Regulations	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Imperial Doctrine	I first became aware of this book as it is listed in the revised \\"Recommended Reading List\\" for the newest edition of Col. John Elting's A Military History and Atlas of the Napoleonic Wars. This is an excellent volume on drill regulations and tactics of the Napoleonic period and the analysis by the author adds much to the volume.  No other volume on this subject for this period in history surpasses the information and insight included in this book.<br /><br />The book has numerous charts and diagrams illustrating the maneuvers that troops performed on the battlefield, as well as the different skirmishing techniques of the various armies. There are a total of 138 tactical diagrams, 91 tables, and 7 charts. These are helpful, easily read, and contribute immensely to the overall content of the book. The three combat arms are discussed at length (horse, foot and guns), combined arms techniques are discussed, as well as grand tactics and strategic operations.<br /><br />The tactics of the major belligerents of the Napoleonic period, French, Prussian, Austrian, Russian, and British are discussed in some depth. Maneuvering by battalion and brigade is fully covered, quoting French officers Meunier and Ney.  Marshal Davout's 1811 instructions on skirmishing are referenced, as well as a very interesting section on Winfield Scott's use of skirmishers in the War of 1812.  Scott, one of the most overlooked and underestimated general officers of the period, expertly adapted the French 1791 Reglement for American use. It should be noted that because of Scott's expertise and professionalism, as well as his talent for training, tactics, and battlefield leadership, and his common sense adaptation of the Reglement, enabled the troops he led in the subsequent battles on the Niagara frontier to match the British regulars volley for volley, as well as in the crossing of bayonets in the Battles of Chippawa, Lundy's Lane, and the siege of Fort Erie.  These were the first instances of American regulars defeating their British counterparts on the battlefield in the open during the War of 1812.<br /><br />The section on French tactics is clear and concise, demonstrating an understanding of the subject not often displayed in other books of this type. The four chapters covering cavalry and artillery are exceptionally well done, and are clear, concise, and extremely helpful.<br />Errors are few and far between. That being said, the use of the term 'converged' for either composite or provisional units, is incorrect-and it is more of a term used by wargamers than those used to actual military terminology.  Geographical Engineers is a mistranslation of Ingenieurs-Geographes, which should be Topographical Engineers. The author's use of Jomini, who is notoriously inaccurate, is also somewhat disappointing, as Jomini's grave deficiencies as both a soldier and historian has been largely demonstrated. However, these minor faults do not detract at all from the overall accuracy and impact of the book.<br /><br />This superb work is a minor masterpiece. It is written in a lively, scholarly style, and is clear and concise. It is a valuable addition to any Napoleonic library, and if you don't own it, or at least haven't either read or used it, you are missing out on an expert work on Napoleonic tactics that will not be equaled or surpassed in the near future, if ever.  This work is more than useful as a reference work and is enthusiastically recommended.can regulars defeating their British counterparts on the battlefield in the open during the War of 1812.<br /><br />The section on French tactics is clear and concise, demonstrating an understanding of the subject not often displayed in other books of this type. The four chapters covering cavalry and artillery are exceptionally well done, and are clear, concise, and extremely helpful.<br />Errors are few and far between. That being said, the use of the term 'converged' for either composite or provisional units, is incorrect-and it is more of a term used by wargamers than those used to actual military terminology.  Geographical Engineers is a mistranslation of Ingenieurs-Geographes, which should be Topographical Engineers. The author's use of Jomini, who is notoriously inaccurate, is also somewhat disappointing, as Jomini's grave deficiencies as both a soldier and historian has been largely demonstrated. However, these minor faults do not detract at all from the overall accuracy and impact of the book.<br /><br />This superb work is a minor masterpiece. It is written in a lively, scholarly style, and is clear and concise. It is a valuable addition to any Napoleonic library, and if you don't own it, or at least haven't either read or used it, you are missing out on an expert work on Napoleonic tactics that will not be equaled or surpassed in the near future, if ever.  This work is more than useful as a reference work and is enthusiastically recommended.	2000-06-22
US	50174289	R3RPNGCUNGCB67	0060929588	485442755	Napoleon Bonaparte: A Life	Books	1	6	6	N	N	A Journey Through Fantasyland...	Napoleon Bonaparte: A Life, by Alan Schom is the worst biography that I have read on Napoleon and has enthusiastically joined the ranks of that half of Napoleonic literature that is a `waste of good paper and printer's ink.<br /><br />This volume is rife with error, innuendo, and psychobabble. Schom bases his study on some very dubious sources --references that are either inaccurate, have been ghostwritten, or have long been discredited by reliable historians-- including the memoirs of Bourrienne, Thiebault, and Madame Junot. The author's conclusions are often overly simplistic and illogical. They are colored by a too obvious built-in prejudice against the French Emperor and his subordinates.<br />Errors of fact occur throughout the volume. Some of the more fantastic examples include:<br /><br />-the idea that Marshal Soult was a coward who \\"generally fled when fighting became intense.\\"<br /><br />-strength and casualty figures are generally inaccurate and wide of the mark (at times some quick math also renders them illogical).<br /><br />-the statement that Lannes `despised the Emperor by 1806' but gives no support for this idea.<br /><br />-repeated statements that many French commanders refused to support their colleagues on the battlefield without presenting any supporting evidence. While hardly a band of brothers, there are few instances where they failed each other on the battlefield or on campaign. Bernadotte ignored the fighting at Auerstadt in 1806, and St. Cyr definitely failed Vandamme in 1813, but these instances are few and far between.<br /><br />-the professional relationship between Napoleon and Berthier in 1800 with the Army of the Reserve in the Marengo Campaign is completely misstated.<br />The oft-repeated error that Berthier commanded the Army of Germany in 1813 when he did not is stated again.<br /><br />-the fact that Berthier was the chief of staff of the Army of Italy in 1796 is missed in the text, merely stating that he and Napoleon met briefly that year.<br /><br />-Napoleon is accused of crimes which cover the gamut of extortion, murder, cowardice, sadomasochism, sadism, theft, brutality, callousness, that he bankrupted France (in fact, Napoleon always balanced his budgets and into 1814 France had practically no national debt), that he had epilepsy (of which there is no evidence), and that Napoleon was a psychopath. No evidence is cited for any of these claims, only hearsay and personal opinion.<br /><br />Further minor errors include the claim that British troops at Waterloo were unblooded recruits, that Friant (he spells the name 'Friand'), as well as Michel, were mortally wounded at Waterloo leading cavalry charges (both were hit in the Old Guard infantry assault at the end of the battle and only Michel was killed), that Desaix commanded and led Monnier's division in the decisive counterattack at Marengo (it was Boudet's). Additionally, he concludes that the Battle of Friedland went exactly as planned (the main attack by Ney was initially defeated which prompted Senarmont's famous artillery assault), that the French had orders to take no prisoners at Austerlitz, and that \\"Napoleon could not abide his commanders sharing the limelight.\\"<br /><br />Furthermore, Rapp and Mouton are placed in Aspern instead of Essling for their counterattack against Rosenberg, and finally, that Austerlitz was an accident instead of a well-laid trap. The somewhat fantastic statement is made that Napoleon abandoned the Pratzen plateau because he didn't have enough troops and artillery to hold it. By Schom's count another 40,000 troops and proportional artillery support would have been needed.<br /><br />In short, this volume is rife with error and is a very biased `biography' of Napoleon.  That by Vincent Cronin is both better, and better researched.  This volume is not recommended and cannot be used as a source for further research because of the myriad errors contained in the text.efly that year.<br /><br />-Napoleon is accused of crimes which cover the gamut of extortion, murder, cowardice, sadomasochism, sadism, theft, brutality, callousness, that he bankrupted France (in fact, Napoleon always balanced his budgets and into 1814 France had practically no national debt), that he had epilepsy (of which there is no evidence), and that Napoleon was a psychopath. No evidence is cited for any of these claims, only hearsay and personal opinion.<br /><br />Further minor errors include the claim that British troops at Waterloo were unblooded recruits, that Friant (he spells the name 'Friand'), as well as Michel, were mortally wounded at Waterloo leading cavalry charges (both were hit in the Old Guard infantry assault at the end of the battle and only Michel was killed), that Desaix commanded and led Monnier's division in the decisive counterattack at Marengo (it was Boudet's). Additionally, he concludes that the Battle of Friedland went exactly as planned (the main attack by Ney was initially defeated which prompted Senarmont's famous artillery assault), that the French had orders to take no prisoners at Austerlitz, and that \\"Napoleon could not abide his commanders sharing the limelight.\\"<br /><br />Furthermore, Rapp and Mouton are placed in Aspern instead of Essling for their counterattack against Rosenberg, and finally, that Austerlitz was an accident instead of a well-laid trap. The somewhat fantastic statement is made that Napoleon abandoned the Pratzen plateau because he didn't have enough troops and artillery to hold it. By Schom's count another 40,000 troops and proportional artillery support would have been needed.<br /><br />In short, this volume is rife with error and is a very biased `biography' of Napoleon.  That by Vincent Cronin is both better, and better researched.  This volume is not recommended and cannot be used as a source for further research because of the myriad errors contained in the text.	2000-06-21
US	50174289	R39LBL4V4OGB64	1855327082	392978897	Eggmhl 1809: Storm Over Bavaria (Campaign)	Books	4	12	12	N	Y	The Emperor of Battles	Ian Castle has written an excellent history of the first half of the Campaign of 1809.  Using both Austrian and French sources, he has produced a totally reliable, well-written account of the Austrian invasion of  Bavaria that almost caught the French by surprise.  The account is  balanced, authoritative, and logically presented.  Errors and omissions are  few, the most glaring being the often repeated mistake of naming Napoleon's  Chief of Staff, Marshal Berthier, as the commander of the French Army of  Germany before Napoleon's arrival from Paris, which he was definitely not.  Other than that, however, the author has presented one of the best modern  narratives of this campaign that can be used as a reliable reference by  historians, enthusiasts, and wargamers.  The artwork by Christa Hook is  excellent, lively, and presents an accurate picture of the uniforms,  deployments, and actions of the campaign.  The other illustrations in this  volume are superb and greatly enhance the excellent narrative.  This book  is highly recommended and is one of the best of the campaign series yet  produced by Osprey.	2000-06-21
US	50174289	R4BS7TPUB7AXS	1885119275	156582774	With Musket, Cannon And Sword: Battle Tactics Of Napoleon And His Enemies	Books	1	12	19	N	N	The Napoleonic Battlefield...	This volume was an excellent opportunity to discuss in great detail the tactics employed by the main belligerents during the period 1792-1815.  Unfortunately, the book falls short in too many areas and there are errors in fact that mark the volume as inaccurate.  While the greater majority of the reference material is solid and reliable, the material does not appear to have been synthesized enough to give the reader a good picture of the Napoleonic battlefield.<br /><br />The following are some of the errors in the text, each quote from the text being followed by an explanation or correction; the page number from the text is in parenthesis after the quote:<br /><br />-`almost all military tacticians writing on the subject agreed that the lance was not a particularly effective weapon against a skilled enemy cavalry determined to resolve the issue with cold steel, at least when held by someone who had not been trained in its use since early adolescence.' (175).<br />Antoine de Brack's memoirs are useful on this subject.  As long as lancers kept a solid front against other cavalry, and were well-trained, they could be successful.  In the confusing melee in Genappe during the French pursuit of Wellington's army after Quatre Bras, British heavy cavalry were bested by French lancers.  French lancers also had a hand, with cuirassiers, in the destruction of the Union Brigade at Waterloo, the cuirassiers hitting them frontally, while the lancers overran their flank.<br /><br />Interestingly, in 1816 the British Army converted four light dragoon regiments into lancers.<br /><br />-`(division here refers to a fraction of a battalion)' (177).<br /><br />To be correct, a division in an infantry battalion was two companies.<br /><br />-`Matters were far worse if the infantry formation had been forced to begin the action before they were able to take off their knapsacks.' 209.<br /><br />The French infantry were trained to fight with the packs on.<br /><br />-`The French Cuirassiers d'Espagne, armed with lances...'273.<br /><br />The French cuirassiers were never armed with lances.<br /><br />-`Marbot...served with the 23d Chasseurs a Cheval in Russia...'<br /><br />Marbot was the commander of the 23d Chasseurs a Cheval in 1812-1814.<br /><br />-`...at Albuera, French lancers taking advantage of a mist were able to gain the rear of a British division and soon able to wreak havoc among the latter's ranks.'305.<br /><br />The French Lancers of the Vistula and the 2d Hussars attacked a British infantry brigade during a thunderstorm, took it in the flank, and for all intents and purposes annihilated it, capturing four British colors.<br /><br />-`Napoleon responded by ordering six cavalry regiments to don a full cuirass, in addition to the 8th [Cavalry] Regiment which had retained its cuirass from the monarchial times.'-305<br /><br />When Napoleon turned to the reorganization of the French Army after Marengo in 1800 there were 25 regiments of of heavy cavalry.  With one exception, the 8th Cavalerie, none were armored.  Napoleon abolished 7 of the regiments and put the men into the other 18 to bring them up to strength.  The first 12 regiments were converted to cuirassiers and the remaining 6 were converted into dragoon regiments.  The two carabineer regiments, also heavy cavalry, remained unarmored until 1810.<br /><br />-`...French cuirassiers were able to charge only at the trot.  Encumbered with their heavy appointments, they were unable to move at a faster pace...'-306<br /><br />Many French cavalry commanders believed that to charge at the trot was better, as it could be controlled easier.  The French heavy cavalry did charge at the trot at the Battle of Eckmuhl in 1809 because they had just completed a forced march to the battlefield and came in on tired horses.  Cuirassier regiments did and could charge at the gallop, as clearly demonstrated at Austerlitz, Jena, Eylau and on other fields.<br /><br />-`...this arm [the French horse artillery] had been expanded to nine full regiments, each of six companies.'-373<br /><br />The French horse artillery arm consisted of six regiments with an average of eight companies apiece by 1814.  This does not include the Guard horse artillery which would be an additional regiment.<br /><br />-`De Valliere and Gribeauval, though differing in details, began the arduous task of standardizing the types of ordnance used in their respective armies.'-375.<br /><br />Both Valliere and Gribeauval were French artillerymen.  Valliere introduced his artillery system to the French army in 1732, and Gribeauval in 1765.  Valliere's artillery system actually contained no field artillery and was designed primarily for siege work.  Gribeauval completely overhauled the French artillery arm and introduced permanently a field artillery system, while largely retaining the Valliere 16- and 24-pounders for siege work.<br /><br />-`At close range, artillery was generally unable to inflict a greater number of casualties than competent and well-led infantry occupying the same frontage.'-378<br /><br />Artillery was used, at least by the French, to destroy portions of the enemy line at close range at the battles of Friedland (1807), Lutzen (1813) and Ligny (1815) to name a few.<br /><br />-`...artillery could be used to eliminate or at least neutralize the enemy's artillery.  This role became increasingly widespread during Napoleonic times.'-379<br /><br />With the exception of the Russians, counterbattery fire was discouraged in the armies of the period as it took too long, required large amounts of ammunition to accomplish, and wasn't that effective.  The French artillery doctrine of the period, as taught in the excellent French artillery schools, was to fire at the enemy's infantry and would not engage in counterbattery fire unless the enemy's artillery was hurting the French infantry more than French artillery was hurting the enemy's infantry.<br /><br />-`It was common practice to equip infantry and cavalry destined to be launched against enemy artillery with spikes.'414<br /><br />There is no source for this and I have not found any source that supports the contention.<br /><br />-`Artillery pieces were...difficult to transport to the field in a timely fashion once the campaigning had begun in earnest.'414<br /><br />Field artillery of the period was designed to keep up with an army on the march and maneuver with it.  This statement again has no supporting evidence and is incorrect.<br /><br />-`...French gunners...when hard pressed...frequently abandoned their pieces with seeming unconcern.'<br /><br />Again, no supporting documentation, and examples of French artillery defending their guns to the last at Hanau in 1813 and Waterloo in 1815 contradict this statement.<br /><br />Glossary:<br /><br />-Carabiniers: `...and much to their chagrin in 1812 were forced to wear a cuirass.'492<br /><br />The two regiments of carabineers were issued cuirasses and helmets in 1810 because of heavy losses in 1809.<br /><br />-Chasseurs a Pied: `After March 1803 it was exclusively reserved for the elite company in a light infantry battalion.'493<br /><br />There was initially one Chasseur a Pied regiment in the Imperial Guard, later increased to two.  In 1815 there were four.  The elite companies in light infantry battalions were carabineers, the equivalent of grenadiers in the line infantry battalion, and voltigeurs.  In the light infantry battalions, the chasseurs were the non-elite companies of the battalion.<br /><br />-Direct Fire: `Any aimed fire where the target was beyond the second point blank primitive but still within the effective range of the piece.'495<br />Direct fire during the period was all types of artillery fire as the gunners had to see their targets.<br /><br />-`Artillery could defend itself by advancing its infantry supports in front of it.'496<br /><br />Artillery defended itself with its guns, not necessarily with supporting infantry which was not always available.  Senarmont, for example, successfully defended his position at Friedland when being attacked by the cavalry of the Russian Guard.  He quickly changed front and fired two quick volleys of canister which literally `blew the cavalrymen off the field.'<br /><br />-Dragoons: `...by the end of the 18th century dragoons came to be thought of and used as medium cavalry.  Dragoons were assigned the lion's share of housekeeping duties, such as outpost duties, etc.'496<br /><br />There was no designation during the period of any unit as `medium cavalry.'  That is a wargaming term and is incorrect.  The units who did the `lion's share' of outpost duty, etc., was the light cavalry (hussars, chasseurs a cheval, and later lancers).<br /><br />-Squadron: `A low level cavalry organization approximating to the infantry company.'502<br /><br />A cavalry squadron was composed of two cavalry companies.  The equivalent organization in the infantry was the battalion.<br /><br />-Voltigeur: `Derives from the word meaning to flit about...'503<br /><br />The term voltigeur means `vaulter.'<br /><br />Unfortunately, because of these and other errors in the book, this volume cannot be recommended as a reference for the period.  The effort put into it was undoubtedly immense, but there are too many errors in the text and some of the conclusions drawn are based on inaccurate material or information.  To understand the tactics of the period the use of John Elting's Swords Around A Throne, George Nafziger's Imperial Bayonets, and Robert Quimby's The Background of Napoleonic Warfare is highly recommended.  All three are excellently sourced, very accurate, and display an understanding of the tactics and armies of the period.infantry and cavalry destined to be launched against enemy artillery with spikes.'414<br /><br />There is no source for this and I have not found any source that supports the contention.<br /><br />-`Artillery pieces were...difficult to transport to the field in a timely fashion once the campaigning had begun in earnest.'414<br /><br />Field artillery of the period was designed to keep up with an army on the march and maneuver with it.  This statement again has no supporting evidence and is incorrect.<br /><br />-`...French gunners...when hard pressed...frequently abandoned their pieces with seeming unconcern.'<br /><br />Again, no supporting documentation, and examples of French artillery defending their guns to the last at Hanau in 1813 and Waterloo in 1815 contradict this statement.<br /><br />Glossary:<br /><br />-Carabiniers: `...and much to their chagrin in 1812 were forced to wear a cuirass.'492<br /><br />The two regiments of carabineers were issued cuirasses and helmets in 1810 because of heavy losses in 1809.<br /><br />-Chasseurs a Pied: `After March 1803 it was exclusively reserved for the elite company in a light infantry battalion.'493<br /><br />There was initially one Chasseur a Pied regiment in the Imperial Guard, later increased to two.  In 1815 there were four.  The elite companies in light infantry battalions were carabineers, the equivalent of grenadiers in the line infantry battalion, and voltigeurs.  In the light infantry battalions, the chasseurs were the non-elite companies of the battalion.<br /><br />-Direct Fire: `Any aimed fire where the target was beyond the second point blank primitive but still within the effective range of the piece.'495<br />Direct fire during the period was all types of artillery fire as the gunners had to see their targets.<br /><br />-`Artillery could defend itself by advancing its infantry supports in front of it.'496<br /><br />Artillery defended itself with its guns, not necessarily with supporting infantry which was not always available.  Senarmont, for example, successfully defended his position at Friedland when being attacked by the cavalry of the Russian Guard.  He quickly changed front and fired two quick volleys of canister which literally `blew the cavalrymen off the field.'<br /><br />-Dragoons: `...by the end of the 18th century dragoons came to be thought of and used as medium cavalry.  Dragoons were assigned the lion's share of housekeeping duties, such as outpost duties, etc.'496<br /><br />There was no designation during the period of any unit as `medium cavalry.'  That is a wargaming term and is incorrect.  The units who did the `lion's share' of outpost duty, etc., was the light cavalry (hussars, chasseurs a cheval, and later lancers).<br /><br />-Squadron: `A low level cavalry organization approximating to the infantry company.'502<br /><br />A cavalry squadron was composed of two cavalry companies.  The equivalent organization in the infantry was the battalion.<br /><br />-Voltigeur: `Derives from the word meaning to flit about...'503<br /><br />The term voltigeur means `vaulter.'<br /><br />Unfortunately, because of these and other errors in the book, this volume cannot be recommended as a reference for the period.  The effort put into it was undoubtedly immense, but there are too many errors in the text and some of the conclusions drawn are based on inaccurate material or information.  To understand the tactics of the period the use of John Elting's Swords Around A Throne, George Nafziger's Imperial Bayonets, and Robert Quimby's The Background of Napoleonic Warfare is highly recommended.  All three are excellently sourced, very accurate, and display an understanding of the tactics and armies of the period.	2000-06-21
US	50174289	R1QLHW1OAKJD4Y	1883476208	774607327	Napoleonic Uniforms, Vols. 3-4 (2 Volume Set)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Allies and Enemies...	These two volumes complete Col Elting's study of Napoleonic uniforms, covering Napoleon's allies and enemies.  All of the watercolors in the book were commissioned by Col Elting from Herbert Knotel, the noted uniformologist and the son of the eminent Richard Knotel.  Herbert Knotel was a German cavalry officer in World War I, and that experience can be seen in his paintings.  He knows both soldiers and horses and he definitely understood that the real sinews of war were the marching and the killing.<br /><br />All four of the books here represent Col Elting's excellent collection of Knotel watercolors, and I was privileged to have been shown the originals by Col Elting.  They are excellently reproduced in all four volumes and they come cheap at the price of the books.  No one interested in the uniforms of the period should be without these four books.<br /><br />Col Elting had these published to finish his study of the Napoleonic Wars, and the Grande Armee.  The study is actually a trilogy, with the first being A Military History and Atlas of the Napoleonic Wars, first published in 1964.  The second part is Swords Around A Throne, an exhaustive study of the Grande Armee.  Thirty years of research went into that volume and the last 'leg' of the trilogy is, of course, the four volumes of uniform plates.<br /><br />These two volumes, along with the first two and Col Elting's other works, are highly recommended and all of them bring to life the Napoleonic Wars and the men who marched and fought.	2000-06-10
US	50174289	RSIHMLXN8WRQI	1853672645	152734605	The Anatomy of Glory: Napoleon and His Guard	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Men of Bronze	The Imperial Guard of Napoleon was a unique organization and was the stuff of legend before the final defeat at Waterloo in 1815.  This volume by Henry Lachouque and Anne Brown is a lavishly illustrated edition that is one of the best histories of the Napoleonic period in print.  This edition, produced by Greenhill in 1997 has the added treat of a new introduction by Col John r. Elting, the author of Swords Around A Throne and the co-author with Brigadier General Vincent J. Esposito of A Military Atlas of the Napoleonic Wars.  The new introduction is valuable in itself, but it also sets the stage for Commandant Lachouque's narrative of the Guard from birth to final disbanding by the Bourbons in November 1815.<br /><br />This volume is enthusiastically recommended for enthusiasts and historians and should be the cornerstone of any Napoleonic library.	2000-06-10
US	50174289	RXAJRVLOU5ZKL	1932033750	737831618	NAPOLEONIC UNIFORMS: Volumes 1 & 2 (2 Volume Boxed Set)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Knotel's Best...	There are a plethora of uniform collections throughout the world, both public and private. Many are highly reliable, some of these not the most artistic in nature, but cold, hard, and accurate representations of the men, and women, who have fought wars down through the ages. Not the least of these collections are those which depict the fighting men of many nations who followed the rolling drums and thundering guns through twenty-five years of unimaginable hardship, horror, and bloodshed that was the French Revolutionary and Napoleonic Wars.<br /><br />The Otto Manuscript, the Luneberg Manuscript, the Manuscripts of the Bourgeois of Hamburg, the Rivotti and Freiberg Manuscripts, were followed by the works of later researchers and artists as displayed in the Martinet Prints, the Vernet collection, the famous Bucquoy cards, the works of Lucien Rousselot and Eugene Leliepvre. These artists have brought these soldiers to life for the generations who have studied those who marched and fought across the length and breadth of Europe, the West Indies, Russia, and the Middle East from 1792 to 1815. Not the least of these collections is the work of Herbert Kn&ouml;tel (son of Richard Kn&ouml;tel, the noted uniform authority), an acknowledged authority on uniforms in his own right. Herbert Kn&ouml;tel was an expert on the way armies looked both in the field and on the parade ground.<br /><br />The work of Herbert Kn&ouml;tel on the Grande Arm&eacute;e and its allies and enemies has now been presented to us in four magnificent volumes; assembled, annotated, and commented on by the noted authority on the Napoleonic Epoch and the Grande Arm&eacute;e, Colonel John R. Elting. Herbert Kn&ouml;tel's watercolor prints in these four volumes are 'all...products of [his] extensive, post World War II research that cleared away many errors common to earlier collections-including his father's famous Grosse Uniformkunde.' Herbert, carefully trained by his father, and a veteran cavalryman on the Eastern Front in World War I, 'worked almost exclusively from manuscript pictorial collections assembled by actual eyewitnesses during or shortly after the Napoleonic era, having an unequaled knowledge of such sources.'<br /><br />Colonel Elting, while teaching at the United States Military Academy at West Point, was put in touch with Herbert Kn&ouml;tel in Germany, wishing to commission accurate renderings of Napoleonic soldiers to enhance his instruction to the cadets in the history of the military art. This developed into a long-term friendship and a definitive uniform collection, a collection that I would consider one of the best private collections in the world today. With Herbert Kn&ouml;tel's untimely death in 1963, the production of the watercolors came, sadly, to a halt. I have had the privilege of viewing some of the collection with Col. Elting, and it is truly impressive. Equally impressive is Col. Elting's knowledge and understanding of the period, as well as his personal expertise in the uniforms of the epoch.<br /><br />The first two volumes of the series cover the Grande Arm&eacute;e, its antecedents, the foreign units who fought with it, and its worthless Bourbon successor. Volume I includes sections on the Royal Army, the Armies of the French Revolution, l'Arm&eacute;e d'Egypte, command and staff, line and light infantry, special infantry units, and the line cavalry, both heavy and light, and the dragoons. Volume II covers the foreign troops, the artillery, the Imperial Navy, engineers and the incomparable Imperial Guard. Both of these volumes were published in 1993.<br /><br />Volumes III and IV of the set were published in April 2000. Volume III covers the Confederation of the Rhine, Denmark, the Republic and Kingdom of Italy, Naples, and Joseph's Kingdom of Spain. Volume IV covers the Republic and Kingdom of Holland, the Grand Duchy of Warsaw, and the myriad allies who were the Grande Arm&eacute;e's enemies, including major sections on the Prussians, Austrians, Russians, and Great Britain.<br /><br />There are a total of 1,461 watercolor plates, including those on the dust covers, in the four volumes: 920 in Volumes I and II, and 541 in Volumes III and IV. Cuirassiers, hussars, jagers zu pferd, lancers (or uhlans), irregulars, free corps, legions, chasseurs, both horse and foot, grenadiers, light infantrymen --be they l&eacute;g&egrave;re, jagers, chasseurs, or riflemen-- carabiniers, and the various Guard contingents grace these pages and remind us that the Napoleonic period was truly 'the golden age of the military tailor.'<br /><br />Here are the generals, officers and men who fought the Napoleonic Wars, and they leap out of the pages at you. The worn-out drummer of the 3e Etranger, formerly the Irish Legion, holding his musket at the ready just one more time, with his drum slung on his back. The artillery general in his full dress finery &agrave; la hussard, bellowing 'En Avant!' to his massed companies. The field officer of the Artillerie &agrave; Pied of the Imperial Guard having an argument with his horse. The Prussian hussar officer, his saber dangling elegantly by its sword knot from his wrist, speaking to his trumpeter. The infantry sapper with a '1000 yard stare.' The W&uuml;rtemberger Garde du Corps trotting past on a magnificent black horse. Infantrymen of many nations trudging along God knows what roads to their next bivouac. Also depicted are the deadly specialists, the 'veteran marchers and killers,' such as the Corsicans of the Tirailleurs Corses or the infantry of the Old Guard. All these soldiers await us within these four volumes.<br /><br />Errors in the prints are few, and Col. Elting points these out quite readily. If there is a doubt on the accuracy or probability of a print, the author rates it a 'probable'; when primary sources differ on a uniform, the alternate renderings are given in the captions; when a uniform item is missing, the details are filled in so the reader can be assured of accuracy. Instead of lessening the impact of the print in question, this raises the validity of the study as it tells us of Col. Elting's endless search for veracity and accuracy.<br /><br />One thing that has been left out of the books, and is in Col. Elting's collection, are the group prints by Kn&ouml;tel which are breathtaking with all the color and sweep of the period. These have been left out because of the parameters of the book, which is understandable, yet it would have been ideal to have these reproduced in their own section. Having personally viewed these prints, oozing character and the gregariousness of military men, I can assure you that these are undoubtedly Kn&ouml;tel's best work.<br /><br />The watercolors are painstakingly accurate, lively, and portray the combat soldier as few artists have done. The horses are particularly well done, and one can tell that Kn&ouml;tel was completely familiar, and at home with, the loyal, hardworking companions of the fighting man. Additionally, having Col. Elting's wry and witty insight into uniforms and personalities is definitely a bonus, each print having a caption by the author, and each section having an appropriate introduction.<br /><br />With these two volumes, Col. Elting has completed his planned trilogy on the Napoleonic Wars and the Grande Arm&eacute;e. This has taken over 40 years of study, painstaking research, and writing. No other author I can think of, past or present, has had the expertise to contribute to the growing library of credible Napoleonic scholarship in three distinct areas: the operational study that is A Military History and Atlas of the Napoleonic Wars, the organizational history of the Grande Arm&eacute;e in Swords Around A Throne, and this four volume uniform study. We as students are extremely lucky to have him in our midst.<br />These four volumes are a must for any historian, uniformologist, collector, and painter of military miniatures of the Napoleonic period. Nowhere else can we find today a collection of uniform prints with the accuracy, detail, color, sang froid, and realism of combat soldiers as they are depicted within this collectio. These four volumes, and the work they contain, are simply masterpieces and belong on all of our bookshelves. They are worth the price asked. In fact they are a bargain for what you get, and have been definitely worth the wait. This is the definitive uniform study of the Napoleonic Wars.<br />Col Elting's collection of Herbert Knotel's work is now in the West Point Museum, except for the large group watercolors which are in private collections.ses the validity of the study as it tells us of Col. Elting's endless search for veracity and accuracy.<br /><br />One thing that has been left out of the books, and is in Col. Elting's collection, are the group prints by Kntel which are breathtaking with all the color and sweep of the period. These have been left out because of the parameters of the book, which is understandable, yet it would have been ideal to have these reproduced in their own section. Having personally viewed these prints, oozing character and the gregariousness of military men, I can assure you that these are undoubtedly Kntel's best work.<br /><br />The watercolors are painstakingly accurate, lively, and portray the combat soldier as few artists have done. The horses are particularly well done, and one can tell that Kntel was completely familiar, and at home with, the loyal, hardworking companions of the fighting man. Additionally, having Col. Elting's wry and witty insight into uniforms and personalities is definitely a bonus, each print having a caption by the author, and each section having an appropriate introduction.<br /><br />With these two volumes, Col. Elting has completed his planned trilogy on the Napoleonic Wars and the Grande Arme. This has taken over 40 years of study, painstaking research, and writing. No other author I can think of, past or present, has had the expertise to contribute to the growing library of credible Napoleonic scholarship in three distinct areas: the operational study that is A Military History and Atlas of the Napoleonic Wars, the organizational history of the Grande Arme in Swords Around A Throne, and this four volume uniform study. We as students are extremely lucky to have him in our midst.<br />These four volumes are a must for any historian, uniformologist, collector, and painter of military miniatures of the Napoleonic period. Nowhere else can we find today a collection of uniform prints with the accuracy, detail, color, sang froid, and realism of combat soldiers as they are depicted within this collectio. These four volumes, and the work they contain, are simply masterpieces and belong on all of our bookshelves. They are worth the price asked. In fact they are a bargain for what you get, and have been definitely worth the wait. This is the definitive uniform study of the Napoleonic Wars.<br />Col Elting's collection of Herbert Knotel's work is now in the West Point Museum, except for the large group watercolors which are in private collections.	2000-06-10
US	50174289	R3NJ4XZDU8AVKN	1853673463	130768315	A Military History and Atlas of the Napoleonic Wars	Books	5	4	4	N	N	The Best Operational Study of the Period in English	This book was first published in 1964 as a textbook for the senior course in the history of the military art at West Point.  As an atlas, it was in large format and has text facing a corresponding map throughout the book.  The maps are excellent and very valuable.  What is usually overlooked is the excellent text which is superior to David Chandler's oft-cited Campaigns of Napoleon which came out two years later.<br /><br />This is the best operational study of Napoleon's campaigns available in English and is both easy to read, and easy to use because of the maps.  What should be noted that it is a study of Napoleon's campaigns and as such most of the Peninsular War in Spain and Portugal is not covered as Napoleon was not present.  The scope of the book is Napoleon's campaigns, for others where he was not in command or present other sources will have to be used.<br /><br />There is a newer edition that was published by Greenhill in 1999, again in the same large format (there is a 1965 edition that is in smaller format for ease of use), and the text is revised to correct errors in the original edition, which are few to begin with.<br /><br />There is a biographical section at the end of the volume covering Napoleon's marshals, some of the other French generals, some of the French opponents, as well as some of the political leaders of the period.<br /><br />One of the most valuable sections of the book, in all the editions, is the Recommended Reading List.  There are over 400 volumes listed and from this an excellent library can be assembled, and the Reading List is annotated.  The original list from 1964 was updated in the 1999 edition for more recent scholarship.<br /><br />This volume is a must for any serious student or historian of the period.  It is an excellent volume in content and is superbly supported by Colonel John Elting's Swords Around a Throne, the best organizational history of the Grande Armee in English.  Both are enthusiastically recommended and are classics on the Napoleonic period.classics on the Napoleonic period.	2000-05-13
US	50174289	RFH0DZIRQDBDL	1853673803	77976077	In the Legions of Napoleon: The Memoirs of a Polish Officer in Spain and Russia, 1808-1813	Books	5	39	39	N	N	From Saragossa to Moscow	Poles fought gallantly for France, and indirectly for their lost himeland, throughout the French Revoltionary and Napoleonic Wars.  The most reliable of Napoleon's foreign troops, they marched the length and breadth of Europe  and established a combat reputation second to none.  Heinrich von  Brandt was one of these, being commissioned into the Grande Armee as a  sous-lieutenant shortly after Prussia's defeat in 1806.  He quickly was  assigned to the famous Legion of the Vistula, humped his pack, and went  into Spain, seeing his first action in the famous second Siege of  Saragossa.  Brandt's fascinating narrative is lively, accurate, and  blunt, telling in vivid detail the horrors of war and the lighter moments  of garrison duty.  He fought his war in Spain assigned to Suchet's Army  of Aragon, seeing much action.  When Napoleon starting gathering the huge  army that invaded Russia in 1812, The Vistula Legion was one of the units  pulled out of Spain to go into Russia.  His description of the marches  across Europe, the thorough preparation for the Grande Armee's invasion,  and the trek to Moscow is fascinating-one can literally not put the book  down.  The best feature of the narrative, however, is Brandt's candid  description of some of the notable personalities of the period, including  Napoleon, Marshal Davout, and Marshal Suchet, all of whom he met and  talked.  He was praised by Suchet, interviewed for his commission by  Davout, and saw Napoleon more than once, describing both he and Davout as  having terrible tempers when provoked.  His description of the terrible  retreat from Moscow and the brilliant battle at the River berezina on the  way out of Russian are fascinating.  This is one of the best soldier  memoirs I have ever read.  It is as colorful as those by Charles Parquin  and Baron Marbot, and very accurate.  This book belongs on the book shelf  of every Napoleonic historian and enthusiast.	2000-05-13
US	50174289	RNWATSYO3AAX	0684183536	556430080	The Superstrategists: Great Captains, Theorists, and Fighting Men Who Have Shaped the History of Warfare	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Warfare in a Nutshell	How many of us have actually read about such military leaders as Marshal Berthier, Turenne, The Chevalier de Folard, and Fox Connor?  Undoubtedly not too many of us.  John Elting has done all of us a great favor with this  little gem of a book that gives us the experts in warfare since the ancient  Greeks, and why they were great.  Jomini and Clausewitz are compared and  contrasted; Napoleon is presented as a soldier and not a legend; Sun Tzu is  given his due in the great scope and sweep of history; Winfield Scott  shines as a soldier and a man, as does George Patton; Eisenhower and  Bradley come off second best in comparison to their subordinate, Patton;  lastly, the Cold War is shown for the desperate struggle it really was,  against a ruthless and merciless enemy, and how close the Russians came to  success.  The Superstrategists chronicles the experts, the great, and  not so great of warfare over the past 2,500 years.  This is not a 'how they  did it' book, but the story of what makes a good general and why good  generals sometimes fail.  Almost all of the big names, and many of the  small ones are told about in this book.  Robert the Bruce, Caesar, Gustavus  Adolphus, Grant, Lee, MacArthur, and a seemingly endless list of grizzled  warriors, kings, and princes get their 'fifteen minutes of fame' in a book  that is useful in a myriad of ways.  Written in a wry, sometimes  humorous, and always with piercing wit, the story goes through the ages and  the changing methods of warfare telling of the only constant in man's  continuing quest to kill each other-man.  Character, or lack of it, is  stunningly told in this book which concnetrates on the cerebral side of  warfare.  The true gem of the entire volume is the outline and  explanation of the Principles of War in the appendices.  Additionally, Col  Elting also instructs as he tells his tale 'of much fyte.'  He whets the  appetite for further research, and the annotated bibliography is excellent  for feeding the hunger for more knowledge.  This book is a must for  both the historian and the military professional.  It is one of the most  entertaining and useful books I have ever read, and I did that in one  sitting.  I couldn't put it down.or feeding the hunger for more knowledge.      This book is a must for  both the historian and the military professional.  It is one of the most  entertaining and useful books I have ever read, and I did that in one  sitting.  I couldn't put it down.	2000-03-06
US	50174289	R30MBOA0EO2T61	0306807572	910533526	Swords Around A Throne	Books	5	59	60	N	Y	From Muzzle to Buttplate	Swords Around A Throne is undoubtedly the best book yet published on the organizational history of the Grande Armee.  Written by a recognized authority on the subject, who taught at West Point for 11 years of a 40 year Army career, it gives the reader, in concise, authoritative, and witty  prose, the story of Napoleon's Grande Armee from its inception to its  destruction and after.  Col Elting covers the Grande Armee from muzzle  to buttplate.<br /><br />Every possible subject is covered, from its commanders, all  the combat arms and supporting services, strategy, tactics, and logistics,  to such seldom covered topics as marches, bivouacs, awards, horses,  discipline, law and order, military intelligence, and the Imperial General  Staff.  Based on thirty years of research, most of it from primary  sources, some not used before in English, it puts the end to many myths and  misconceptions (such as the Waterloo myths about the Imperial Guard), and  enlightens the reader as to what made up that terrible instrument of war,  the Grande Armee.  A companion volume to the author's A Military History and Atlas of the Napoleonic Wars, it also stands alone as a work of  immense depth, accuracy, and profound insight.<br /><br />Background material is  also provided in the early chapters on the Royal Army of the Ancien Regime  and the armies of the French Revolution.  Additionally, allies, foreign  troops in French service, and the Grande Armee's enemies are also given  separate chapters.  The book is also highly anecdotal, being peppered  with stories of personages great and not so great.  Keen insight into the  character of the soldiers talked about is thorough and uncanny.  Generals,  captains, and the man in the ranks are all quoted and talked about  throughout this engrossing study.  As an added bonus, the final three  chapters talk about the return, hasty departure, and final return of the  hated Bourbons 'in the allies' baggage wagons', and what happened to the  Grande Armee and its commanders after Napoleon's final exile.  If the  book has a weakness, it is that it leaves the reader with a hunger for more  information.  Another 300 pages would have been welcome.<br /><br />As it is, Sword  Around A Throne is an immense achievement, seldom equalled and never  surpassed. It is a must for anyone interested in the Napoleonic and  Revolutionary Wars in general and the Grande Armee in particular.  Epic  in scope, painstakingly accurate, and romantic in its sweep and  understanding of the times, it at times reads like a novel, and it is  amazing to realize that these people lived, and performed the deeds told  inside this the covers of this volume.mee and its commanders after Napoleon's final exile.  If the  book has a weakness, it is that it leaves the reader with a hunger for more  information.  Another 300 pages would have been welcome.<br /><br />As it is, Sword  Around A Throne is an immense achievement, seldom equalled and never  surpassed. It is a must for anyone interested in the Napoleonic and  Revolutionary Wars in general and the Grande Armee in particular.  Epic  in scope, painstakingly accurate, and romantic in its sweep and  understanding of the times, it at times reads like a novel, and it is  amazing to realize that these people lived, and performed the deeds told  inside this the covers of this volume.	2000-01-26
