US	50177820	R3DBEAT8OUTGMB	1400042577	331082131	I Am a Soldier, Too: The Jessica Lynch Story	Books	5	6	14	N	N	Mallowcups for Rick Bragg	Seems every now and then a person is called upon to do one thing no one else was meant to do; seems to me Rick Bragg was the dead-on choice to write Jessica Lynch's story. I don't know how that mini-miracle came about, but after reading it, I was glad Rick was the one to write it. It's lyrical, it's quiet, it's right; most of all, you know the truth is being told. You just know. <br />I didn't expect to enjoy the storytelling as much as the story. Jessica's story is set down rightly, and as an American I am proud of that. Nice going, Rick. I'd share a pack of Mallowcups with you.	2003-11-18
US	50177820	R1IA99YXV0I5WN	080504695X	713778363	A Rumor of War	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Mallowcups for Philip	Truth makes free--that was the odd thought flitting in the background when I read this book. I could have chosen a history book to try and understand the Vietnam war; I'm glad someone recommended 'A Rumor of War' because it is not often truth we encounter in history books, only facts. Understanding brings about a curious freedom and that was my sense upon finishing this book. I felt like I had faced and understood a grim untouchable, and in the understanding have been made free--though I don't understand how or why. Perhaps it's because this book is Testimony and I am a fool for any man's Testimony. Philip Caputo told the truth of his Vietnam, and in that alone is something heroic and beautiful. Never before have I been made to understand the Vietnam war; and if I still do not understand it, exactly, at least I have been there through Philip Caputo and have an empathy I never did for the veterans of this war...	2003-04-20
US	50177820	RMYNGF9RMB8ZC	1589199804	864719029	101 Amazing Things About God	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Mallowcups For Marsha	I finally got this book to see what the fuss was all about. <br />You know the part in Shawshank Redemption, where Tim Robbins comes out and stands in the rain? That's what this book was to me. Pure saturating relief. This is it, this is what we're looking for when we're looking for God. We want things we recognize. We want to be able to say, I knew He was like that all along, I just knew. Marsha Marks has selected 101 times He has intersected her days and has put them in a prose so delightful and enjoyable I wish it was 1001 things. <br />Kids came running to see what I was laughing about when I read some parts. I'm glad that's what Marsha did with this little volume, she made God to be an everyday deal, with all the joy and hilarity and yeah, heartache it means. Thanks, Marsha. I'd share a pack of Mallowcups with you.	2003-04-15
US	50177820	R1JP0N1DIEQ0HZ	0830823174	150023311	Scribbling in the Sand: Christ and Creativity	Books	5	13	20	N	N	Mallowcups for Mike	Yes, okay, Michael's book is great and I had quite an eloquent review in mind. Then I got to the letter by Harold Best at the end of the book and forgot all about it: get this book for those pages alone. And for Calvin Seerveld's letter, and for the letter from the art guy from New York, and from the Dutch guy. Mallowcups will of course be credited to Mike's account because he had the--what? generosity? halacious acumen?--to include them. <br />This book should be a textbook companion in the life of every writer, poet, artist, whatever, who belongs to Jesus and wants a clear slant on the creative responsibility. I haven't read another book of its kind, and didn't know I was wistful for it.  There are some books that should never be loaned out, and this has joined those few on my shelf. I'll slobber and rave over it, and will remain cheerfully selfish with my copy. I'll buy it for someone else before I loan it, because it will be taken from my shelf again and again for reference.<br />Having gushed, I will say I'm not sure how I feel about Mike's take on this &quot;getting together&quot; thing, this accountability thing with other artists. I've seen that side, have been there, and the accountability rap can get icky. Stormy solitude is a more compelling place; but I will say, I'm cautiously checking out his ideas and I'll get back to him on it. <br />Oh, and Mike: the appendix, which you wrote &quot;reluctantly&quot; on the advice of some friends, wasn't needed. You should have taken a bullet on that one. If someone didn't get it before then, how could a didactic play-by-play stick 'em in the guts? I loved it when you said &quot;For their sake, here, reluctantly, are a few ideas.&quot; What cheering honesty. <br />Mallowcups for Mike, the whole package, points and all.	2003-01-29
US	50177820	RYK8G9IZIS1EP	1565123093	399969096	Girl Meets God: On the Path to a Spiritual Life	Books	5	13	17	N	N	Mallocups for Lauren	I started the book with eagerness, got dismayed because it looked like another literary attempt to make Jesus cool, got hopeful with ex-boyfriends words \\"Being a Christian means being a pariah, Lauren, it means not fitting in anywhere in this world\\", and really did find the messiness of Jesus, not the coolness, in this book. <br />You can't get more messy than when she wanted to correct one man's impression of her conversion to Christianity: \\"No, no, I'm not one of them. I'm one of you. I believe that Jesus Christ is Lord, but I also wear fishnet stockings and drink single malt Scotch.\\" I laughed hard at that, it delighted me and scared me, too, because I thought, here it comes, she's trying to make Jesus hip and cool...but she didn't. <br />I loved it that her conversion wasn't tidy, still isn't. I love it that stuff did not get easy, but different. I did have an impression that it boiled down to a swapping of liturgy for liturgy, but then I discovered that wasn't a bad thing because books like these are making me see Jesus in those liturgies. Though I'm not familiar with Episcopalian rites, or many rites at all, I have been kicking around this idea of formal confession and I think Lauren, or God, is on to something. \\"Confess your sins that you may be healed\\", it says somewhere in James. That's huge. <br />What really knocked me back is her forthrightness about the Holy Spirit, tongues and all. That's practically ..., and it delighted me. The only axe I'd grind is her very hip comment about the Mitford books and the Left Behind books. I haven't read any of them, but get unhappy when I see smart people roll their eyes at holy puzzle pieces. From Kushner, and I'll never stop quoting it: \\"Everyone carries with them at least one and probably many pieces to someone else's puzzle. Sometimes they know it. Sometimes they don't. And when you present your piece which is worthless to you, to another, whether you know it or not, whether they know it or not, you are a messengerfrom the Most High.\\" I finished Lauren's book, took down At Home in Mitford from my shelf, and thought, wow. This was a puzzle piece. Left Behind stuff may be puzzle pieces. Girl Meets God is on the same plane, then, if it becomes a puzzle piece. A molecule short of holy.<br />This was a glorious, to-be-shared puzzle piece. It's one of Those books for me, and Those are precious few. It's testimony, and ho, the power of testimony. Lauren has shown that Testimony is malleable and grows with you and is like salvation which happens every day in the life of the Believer. I hope she will ever see the trade-off, that for the giving of herself, the courageousness of holding out her testimony, she will receive a dazzling return. Way to go, Idaho. I'd share a pack of Mallocups with you, and this is unprecedented, would let you keep the points card. Even if it was fifty.	2002-11-13
US	50177820	RADYKDKD49GQS	0553211765	365726027	A Tale of Two Cities	Books	5	9	10	N	N	The Best of Times	I'm thirty-seven years old, and now I read Dickens. I didn't read this book in high school, and didn't go to college. That I've read it now, and not twenty years ago, is for me due course; I'm a strange one who believes in a time for every book.<br />What strikes me deepest, besides the unashamed redemption in this book--something Dickens would not get away with in this day--is the power of truth in fiction. The power of parable. This is a book I will ply to my fact-lovin' friends; I will read what they say to get them to read this. Like no other book I've read, &quot;A Tale of Two Cities&quot; will show them the power of story as truth.<br />It's a far, far better tale than I have read in a long, long while.	2002-07-08
US	50177820	R3EZVCCF541Y79	0060652950	94824058	The Great Divorce	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Mallowcups for Clive	If it would have been anything other than an allegory, it may not have snagged my attention. A friend foisted it on me, and now I'm the one foisting. From &quot;The Great Divorce&quot;, I came away with this:  &quot;Every poet and musician and artist, but for Grace, is drawn away from love of the thing he tells, to love of the telling till, down in Deep Hell, they cannot be interested in God at all but only in what they say about  him.&quot; <br />For this alone, Mallowcups for the master.	2002-07-06
US	50177820	RGBTX5U0UY1T8	1557252866	685964549	The Illumined Heart: The Ancient Christian Path of Transformation (Pocket Faith)	Books	5	65	70	N	N	Mallowcups for Frederica	This is a small book. I thought I could knock it off in one setting. Two months later...<br />I did not expect it to become a book I'd have to slam down every other sentence for the richness of what I read. This is one of those books. Once again, I'm rearranging my \\"Top Ten Most Influential\\" book list. I heard this woman, who should be feted and bedecked with Mallowcups, speak at a conference; I remember thinking she was a soft-spoken woman I would not want to meet in an alley for the tough truth she owned. This book confirms that thought. <br />This book took me back to some hallowed basics of Christianity. It took me back to a simplicity I have long looked for without knowing. Here's a few things it did: 1. It reminded me that my other enemy is the devil (the first being myself.) That's not popular, Frederica, to own the devil as an enemy. Mallowcups for speaking truth. 2. It reminded me of fasting. Thanks a WHOLE LOT for that one--even my hair shrieks at the thought of missing a meal. But the truth of fasting, the realization that it is a sacrament and that I've been missing out, is louder than the shrieking. 3. It reminded me that I am a sinner. The tacit understanding is that we are NOT sinners. We are saved by grace, skip the sinner part. We think the grace part erases the sinner part. Owning the sinner part again is...huge. And, last, #4: The Jesus Prayer. <br />The idea of chanting a prayer over and over is anathema to many believers. It's too fearfully close to vain repetition. But there is something about \\"Lord Jesus Christ, have mercy on me, a sinner.\\" It's aligning. Frederica says, \\"Do not be deceived into thinking that the words have magic of their own...that is the kind of thing Jesus meant by \\"vain repetition.\\"...you do it in vain if you don't mean it.\\" <br />So for those four things, plus the reprint of the prayer of Nikolai Velimirovic (where did you dig that up? another thing that had me slamming the book down...)...Mallowcups, Frederica.	2002-07-05
US	50177820	R3K6NS8BAAIF8L	0785275967	638330579	The Twilight of Courage: A Novel	Books	5	39	41	N	N	Mallowcups for Bodie and Brock	Under duress, I recently confessed my favorite Thoene novel: Twilight of Courage. (It's like admitting you have a favorite child.) A friend of mine who has read only non-fiction books for the past 7 years agreed to read this one only because it is fiction based on fact. He loved it. (I, in turn, had to read a non-fiction book. He chose for me &quot;Fate is the Hunter&quot;, a book so well-written I couldn't help reading it.)<br />I told my friend about the background to this book, which I know because I wrote a review in the Grand Rapids Press years ago: the Thoenes spent four months on a barge in Paris, with assistants, researching this work. They asked elderly Parisians this question: Where were you the day France fell? Seemed they all had a story. From those stories came this book. It's what got my friend to read it. <br />That's what I love about the Thoenes' work. Winston Churchill said something about hinges, that isn't interesting upon what small hinges events turn. The Thoenes seek out those hinges and give them a rightful place by recording them. Fact couched in fiction? Sometimes that's the only way a story can be told. That it is told at all is the only thing that matters. From Marcus Aurelius...&quot;Look beneath the surface; let not the quality of a thing nor its worth escape thee...&quot; <br />Mallowcups for Bodie and Brock. Cheers for their dedication to rusty old hinges.	2002-04-30
US	50177820	R2SP9DKGUB9TTH	0671024256	44310359	On Writing: A Memoir of the Craft	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Mallowcups for Steve	This is a hard sell to my Christian writer friends, but I tell them if they love me they will read it. I tell them between this and Anne Lamott's book 'Bird by Bird', you've got the best stuff on writing this planet has seen. I tell them if they want to learn, they will read it. <br />I'm not a horror genre fan, but this book is a handful of gold on the craft of storytelling. The truth in it has cut loose two nasty problems in my writing, problems on their way to correction. My gratefulness to Stephen King for this book is permanent.	2002-04-27
US	50177820	R2WIMOHZMEBPOI	0385480016	980380074	Bird by Bird: Some Instructions on Writing and Life	Books	5	2	2	N	N	More Mallowcups for Anne	My gratitute for this work is boundless. Lawrence Kushner says it for me: &quot;Everyone carries with them at least one and probably many pieces to someone else's puzzle. Sometimes they know it. Sometimes they don't. And when you present your piece which is worthless to you, to another, whether you know it or not, whether they know it or not, you are a messenger of the Most High.&quot;<br />I believe this work loosens up the reader to become a puzzle-piece bearer. And though I do not often think our pieces are worthless, Kushner's point is clear; we have a little bit in our pocket belonging to someone else, and Anne Lamott helps us give it. Thanks, Anne.	2002-04-24
US	50177820	R2H3DM7V18PQLK	0375753974	683606071	Pontius Pilate	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Mallowcups for Ann	To which pigeon hole do I stuff this book? It's impossible. I read it to gain insight for period writing of my own; I loved it because it was phenomonally written. Had I known, I would have read it for the pleasure and not only the information. History, biography, whatever...you decide. <br />And what a topic this woman chose. Pontius Pilate? You wouldn't think she could regale for nearly four hundred pages on a man of whom we know not much; you'll understand after reading it. Due to great gaps in my education, I had to read some parts squinting. But here are a few things that, months after reading the book, have stayed with me: Quoting Tony Blair: \\"The intriguing thing about Pilate is the degree to which he tried to do the good thing rather than the bad. He commands our moral attention not because he was a bad man, but because he was so nearly a good man.\\" <br />In examining Pilate, Jesus is also in the frame: Ann quotes from \\"The Oxyrhynchus Sayings of Jesus\\", from a scrap of third-century parchment, \\"Lift up the stone and there you shall find me; cleave the wood and I am there.\\" <br />For me this book compared to Cahill's \\"How the Irish...\\" and \\"Desire of the Everlasting Hills\\" in that culture (Roman, Jewish) is examined and set in place to help the reader understand. Like Cahill, Wroe can tell it beautifully. You'll find things provocative, things distressing, things beautiful, and things fascinating. You'll discover a man you thought you knew, and may find him more familiar than you ever thought. Blair's quote encapsulates this book for me. Mallowcups, Ann. A spectacular work.	2002-04-23
US	50177820	R1FLQPTGLN0F10	0060667419	537855056	Embracing the Love of God: The Path and Promise of Christian Life	Books	5	21	22	N	N	Worth Its Weight in Mallowcups	I'm not sure which book got kicked out of the top 5 most influential books in my life, but this book replaced it. I've spent the fist ten years of my Christianity picking up not only the love of God, but the baggage that often goes with religion; I've spent the last ten years in the tricky business of extricating the love and dropping off the baggage. <br />This is one baggage blasting book. <br />It's a centering book. One I could not read quickly for the need to lay it down and think. The power in this book lay in the fact that it is also the testimony of one man; and last I heard, a person's testimony ranks with the blood of Jesus as far as overcoming goes. (Rev. 12:11) And what have we to overcome? That insidious voice that accuses us before God day and night. It says day and night. (vs. 10) No let up. That's why we need the message of love pounded and ground into our faces until we jolly well believe it.<br />This book has helped me to identify the voice of the accuser. It has helped me to see God in the teeny tiny ways he wants to be in my life. It has helped me to embrace what I am ever thinking is for someone else. <br />What I am understanding is that I did not get saved once; I am getting saved all the time, inch by inch and daily, and books like these are small miracles to help. This book is good news. I can't say how grateful I am to have read it.	2001-11-13
US	50177820	R3HSLGGLE9M30	0670894877	927888610	Jerusalem's Heart (Zion Legacy, Bk 3)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Living Bravely	I finished this book the same day the film \\"Uprising\\" premiered, and the similarities are striking. Once again, the Jews are outgunned, outmanned, and hungry. And once again, the Thoenes do honor to Jewish heritage and record little known stories--like that of the Jewish struggle in Warsaw--for a legacy of bravery. <br />In this, book #3 of the series, the Jewish defenders try to hold the Old City, while the Jewish army tries desperately to give aid. It's classic Thoene, great action and passion, great writing, great material.  <br />The journey is everything. That's the shout from Warsaw, and that's the shout from this book. What stays with me are the words of a woman under siege in Jerusalem...\\"Life is the hardest thing...that's where real courage is. Not in dying bravely, but in living bravely.\\"	2001-11-06
US	50177820	R39O00JQ0WL36F	0670892068	730294473	Thunder from Jerusalem (Zion Legacy Book 2)	Books	5	0	2	N	N	Mallowcups for the Thoenes	Everything, even a book review, is in a different cast since September 11. What hits this half-masted heart is the sole motivation of Peter Wallich, one of the Jewish defenders of beseiged Jerusalem...he only wants a place for children to grow up free. Truly, now baptized with fire, we can understand how the Israeli Jews felt...at least, we can understand the bewilderment of hatred.<br />On a technical side...knowing how the Thoenes operate, I wonder just how many people they drilled for &quot;the story.&quot; I am stunned at the details, and as one reviewer put it, wonder where the line is drawn between fact and fiction. I do know that the Thoenes spent four months on a barge in Paris researching &quot;Twilight of Courage.&quot; They asked elderly Parisians this question: &quot;Where were you the day France fell?&quot; The stories in that book were true. Makes me extremely curious about this new series.<br />Who did they talk to this time? What did they ask? Someday I'd like to wrest the info out of them...maybe torture it out of them, they way they torture ME when the NEXT BOOK is not INSTANTLY in my hand. I'd display Mallowcups on a silver tray inches from their little faces...<br />Well, I am their SLAVE and must read the next book NOW lest I perish. The Thoenes once again show that they can turn out book after book and still hit it dead on. Memorable characters, breathless action, scenes that make me bawl and scenes that make me Yee Ha. All in all, you feel like you walk away with something in your pocket when the book is done. <br />Good job, guys.  I'd share Mallowcups with you.	2001-09-14
US	50177820	RP2G92EYT8XAE	0805421351	261396480	Rich Mullins: An Arrow Pointing to Heaven	Books	5	2	4	N	N	A Bouquet of Mallowcups for Jimmy	I purchased this book with something like fear, because I've been an R.M. fan forever--I practically invented him--and I didn't want some yutz biographer to screw it up. This book is something of a miracle. It's the bio/story of Rich Mullins that hollered to be written, and thank God James Smith wasn't deaf. <br />To all R.M. fans...don't be afraid. This book is the one.	2001-08-14
US	50177820	R2BMLAFM7C0CCF	0345346491	189337677	Walking Across Egypt	Books	5	0	2	N	N	Mallowcups for Clyde	I cannot explain why I liked this book so much. Only that I feel better for having read it. Clyde, I'd share Mallowcups with you. Heck, I'd let you have the whole package.	2001-07-31
US	50177820	RKZDYAM7DN3BM	1577780728	859183947	Jesus Freaks: Stories of Those Who Stood for Jesus, the Ultimate Jesus Freaks	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Mallowcups for the Jesus Freaks	I thought it was merely an updated version of Foxes Book of Martyrs, but I was wrong. Though it contains many such stories, it also contains stories of those who did not die, but suffered loss--physically, materially, or otherwise--for belief in Christ. <br />The book is summed up for me in the words of a young Chinese girl who was tortured for her faith. She said, &quot;I purified my heart of the fear of men, and I learned to see God.&quot; So many times this book rings of &quot;Fear not.&quot; These Jesus Freaks learned that Jesus is there, and that fear is merely a curtain.   <br />This book could easily be used by families as a devotional tool. What better way to learn about devotion than from those devoted? Perhaps, in learning of the courage of those who died for Jesus, we who remain might take courage to live for him. Whoever said dying to self was a piece of cake....  Anyway, five stars for the Jesus Freaks. I'd share Mallowcups with them.	2001-07-10
US	50177820	R2N4QPF6OJ6750	0812513754	861837137	Lord of Chaos (The Wheel of Time, Book 6)	Books	5	2	6	N	N	Mallowcups for Bob	To write a review for as popular a series as the Wheel of Time is like tossing a penny into a wealthy fountain. But...have penny, will toss. <br />Admittedly, Bob nearly lost me halfway through this, the sixth book, of the WOT series. I wondered if his editor had taken one coffee break too many; it seemed he had been given extravagant license to take the plot on various bunny trails. I found myself mentally editing his work, something I never do with Jordan. A needless sentence here and there, overstatement and his seeming self-indulgence with unnecessary description made me more than once toss the book aside in frustration. However...<br />I kept reading for two reasons: a neighbor and I are reading the series together, and she finished the book before I; she did handsprings to let me know it got much, much better. The other reason is that a writer as brilliant as Bobby deserves, on book 6, a chance to bail himself out. <br />This book made me realize how important it is for the writer to serve the reader. Self-indulgence comes through when a writer refuses to edit, or allow himself/herself, to be edited. I am usually satisfied with Jordan's work; this book left me unhappy in the middle, and greatly happy at the end. For those who may be tempted to set it aside halfway through--trust me, it's worth the time. <br />I read his work to learn more of the craft of writing, and I have learned that even the masters err at times; I don't know whether to be relieved that Jordan is indeed human or not. I do know I'd share Mallowcups with Bob in a heartbeat. I am very thankful for the gift he has been given. For my own base and inglorious selfishness, I hope he lives to be 100, writing himself silly.	2001-04-02
US	50177820	R3JQFMWP9LBWMA	0809123193	87028790	A Life of Jesus	Books	5	72	75	N	N	Mallowcups for Shusaku	Shusaku Endo, in his own words a &quot;solitary novelist in the Orient&quot;, has given us a singular gift in &quot;A Life of Jesus.&quot; This novelist employed his talent to put a soundtrack and lighting to the gospels, complete with the dimensions of smell, taste, and touch. While I feel he used the word 'emaciated' one too many times in reference to Jesus, the point he makes is clear; Jesus was not what anyone expected a Messiah to be. <br />Endo takes a good portion of the book to explore the POV's of the disciples. His is the first account I have seen that presents a compassionate portrait of Judas Iscariot, a man who, in the end, hated himself to death. Toward the end of the book, Endo hammered the perplexing question of what changed the cowardly disciples, who had abandoned Jesus to his fate...the conclusion Endo reached did indeed resonate with this particular reader, though I could not help feel a bit of restless frustration with the end...his conclusions about the 'electrifying change' he saw in the disciples not once suggested the beginning of the book of Acts, where a once denying Peter is now empowered to not only hold forth, but to do so boldly. <br />The point Endo labors is more about the power of resurrection...he says &quot;Regarding other miracles in the life of Jesus, the Gospel record is soft, compared to the resurrection.&quot; Indeed, it was fascinating to get inside the brains of Endo's disciples--the word 'resurrection' has new meaning for me. <br />I greatly admired this work, am still thinking about it, and had the feeling it ended too soon. In Endo's own words, because I cannot say it better, &quot;Regarding those who deserted him, those who betrayed him, not a word of resentment came to his lips...he prayed for nothing but their salvation. That's the whole life of Jesus. It stands out clean and simple, like a single Chinese ideograph brushed on a blank sheet of paper. It was so clean and simple that no one could make sense of it, and not one could produce its like.&quot;	2001-02-16
US	50177820	R1F50HOEEXPSVK	0062517090	716567799	Ruthless Trust: The Ragamuffin's Path to God	Books	5	37	37	N	N	Mallowcups for the Muffin Man	I always get more things than what I expect from Brennan Manning's books, surprising things, good things. &quot;Ruthless Trust&quot; came to me at so exactly the right time it makes me laugh. Richard Foster says this book is timely, and so it is. It was so for me. <br />I enjoy the way Brennan refuses to use the didactic approach for his teachings. He makes the reader comfy, non-threatened, at home. While I had to put on my sunglasses round about chapter four (he nearly lost me on a big bright ocean of transcendence), he pulled me back again with things like, &quot;Nevertheless, we are made for that which is too big for us. We are made for God, and nothing else will ever satisfy us.&quot; Ain't that the truth. No one can make us more mad or happy than God. <br />Brennan uses phrases like &quot;maelstrom of mercy&quot; and &quot;ruthless trust&quot;, juxtaposed words that delight me. His take on trust reminds me of something Elie Wiesel said, in quoting someone else, that to know God is to take yourself to the top of a smoking volcano and throw yourself in. What I got from Brennan's latest is that trust is very like that: you have to look at bubbling lava and holler Geronimo. Doesn't it say somewhere that God is a consuming fire? Yes, and fear burns at the leap. Hope, the springboard; faith, the Geronimo; trust, the waiting comfort. Thanks, Brennan. I'd share a Mallowcup with you.	2001-01-23
US	50177820	R3TPWKW10GWPA7	0028627113	884998320	The Complete Idiot's Guide to Jewish History and Culture	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Mallowcups for Rabbi Ben	Rabbi, don't let anyone tell you the title of this book is wrong. At a  convention I asked a Jewish man a few questions about Jewish history; not  only was he unhappy with my questions, but he gave no answers. Feeling like  a, well, idiot...imagine how happy I was to discover your book. My  questions were answered halfway through, but the book was so interesting I  couldn't stop reading.<br />What an education. I had no idea the scope of the  persecution Jewish people have had to endure, especially from  &quot;Christians.&quot; This book brought an understanding to me, of why  the relationship between Jews and Christians is often antagonistic. (Hey,  I'm from Hudsonville...I don't get out much.)<br />The book was written like  we were having a conversation. I liked the layout of the chapters, and the  interesting nuggets in &quot;Listen to your Bubbe&quot; and other insets.  About the only place I'd armwrestle you over is your take on the New  Testament text: the verse in 1 Timothy 6 doesn't say (like everybody thinks  it does--you're not alone) that money is the root of all evil. It actually  says the &quot;love&quot; of money is the root of &quot;all kinds&quot; of  evil. But hey--why should I expect you to quote perfectly a text most  Christians probably couldn't? In fact, the man who penned those words  penned these: &quot;Respect what is right in the sight of all men.&quot;  You read it right--ALL men. Whip out that text the next time some  intolerant Christian act intolerantly. (Romans 12:17)<br />Thanks for a great  book, and thanks for the education.	2000-09-07
US	50177820	R3HL0UHXWHHSBT	0028627113	16011581	The Complete Idiot's Guide to Jewish History and Culture	Books	5	36	40	N	N	Mallowcups for Rabbi Ben	Rabbi, don't let anyone tell you the title of this book is wrong...I'm  telling you, it's what made me buy it. See, I asked a man a few questions  at a convention about Jewish history, and I think the poor man thought I  was trying to convert him--to what, I'm not sure. He wasn't happy with me,  and I got no answers. Feeling like a, well, idiot...imagine how happy I was  to find your book. I got the answers to my questions halfway through your  book, but you wrote the book so well I coudln't stop reading. It was quite  an education. I simply had no idea of the amount of anti-Semitism the  Jewish people have had to endure, practically since their existence. <br />The  book was written like we were having a conversation, and the way it was  laid out was terrific...the chapter highlights at the beginning and end of  the chapters were great memory tools. Though at times you seemed a bit  cheeky with all the &quot;innovations&quot; and accomplishments, I figured  hey, who isn't a littly cheeky when it comes to family. The only part I'd  armwrestle you over is your take on the New Testament text: the verse in I  Timothy 6 doesn't say (like everybody thinks it does--you're not alone)  that &quot;money is the root of all evil.&quot; It says the  &quot;love&quot; of money is the root of &quot;all kinds&quot; of evil. But  hey--why should I expect you to quote perfectly a text most Christians  probably couldn't? Come to think of it, and this is tragic, all of the  anti-Semitism belonging to Christions would be non-existent if those  &quot;Christians&quot; would get their fannies in gear and camp on these  words, penned by the same man who penned the verse in Timothy:  &quot;Respect what is right in the sight of all men.&quot; You read it  right--ALL men. I'll bet if I looked that up in the Greek the word  &quot;all&quot; would mean, ahem, all. (You'll find that little gem, by the  way, in Romans 12:17. Whip it out the next time some yahoo  &quot;Christian&quot; makes a remark. By the way, I'm a Christian so I can  get down and dirty with my own.)<br />Rabbi Blech, yours was a very sobering,  very thought-provoking, very enlightening book. Like the New Testament,  this book should be required reading for Christians. Maybe a required  viewing of &quot;Schindler's List&quot; wouldn't kill them either. (These  are great ideas, eh? Between you and me Tikun Olam would be a done  deal...but we'd have to rephrase the word &quot;required.&quot; I don't  think that would fly.) Anyway, thanks for a great book. Shalom to you too.	2000-09-06
US	50177820	RFC4EIS0LMP2U	0809136104	482905	The Jews in the Time of Jesus: An Introduction	Books	5	16	17	N	N	A needed book.	Stephen Wylen's book, &quot;The Jews in the Time of Jesus&quot; is another important work in the ongoing situation of Judaeo-Christian relations. For  me, it was another stepping stone to understanding the roots of my  Christian faith.<br />Wylen gives the reader a good understanding of the  religious, cultural and political scenes at the time of Christ. Although  early on in his book Mr. Wylen stated, in light of the often delicate  sensibilites on both sides, that he would attempt to present a  dispassionate work, I was actually pleased to see his dispassion sprouting  up at times into opinion. For me, those opinions are the support rails on  the bridges to understanding. They are things upon which I can grasp hold  and keep moving forward. This book was valuable to me, and I recommend it  to Christians who not only seek to understand their Jewish roots, but who  wish to add to their understanding of what it means to be Jewish in a  largely Christian world. <br />Did I disagree with some of the things put  forth in this work? Yes. But it didn't prevent me from enjoying the work  and appreciating the reason for the book to be.	2000-08-27
US	50177820	R1AUT0M0Y4FAZL	0385482515	683164590	Desire of the Everlasting Hills: The World Before and After Jesus (Hinges of History)	Books	5	16	25	N	N	Why Mr, Cahill, I declare.	First, we meet in Connemara with how your Irish did what they did. Next we rendezvous in Palestine, with the everlasting hills. There's talk, Mr.  Cahill. The neighbors are talking. <br />I'm delighted with the scandal,  actually, and scandalous it is. Some folks I know, dear and precious folks,  would have you stuck on a spit and roasted till dry for parts of  &quot;Desire of the Everlasting Hills.&quot; And because I enjoyed the book  immensely, I'd be roasting right next to you. Don't get me wrong: some of  your book had me up in everlastin' arms, but not enough to prevent them  slapping on the basting sauce. <br />The above was personal, Mr. Cahill only.  Here's my review. <br />If, like me, you laughed when you read the cover flap,  that &quot;Desire of the Everlasting Hills&quot; is meant by the author as  an act of reconciliation between Judaism and Christianity, and like me, you  thought, &quot;two chances of that, Tommy boy, fat and slim&quot;... but  you were curious just how he was going to do it...I'm telling you, read it.  You may wind up rotating over open flames, or maybe you'll be the one with  the basting brush. Either way, it's a great read. <br />Like any teacher worth  his salt, Cahill begins with a foundation of information upon which he  builds his framework. This foundation of Jewish history and world culture  is not only fascinating, but absolutely necessary. In his wonderfully  gifted way, Cahill as teacher builds &quot;line upon line, precept upon  precept&quot;, giving the reader the feeling that he is saying, &quot;Hang  with me, I'm going somewhere with this.&quot; <br />The reader who hangs with  him is taken places sometimes difficult to go. What Cahill says about the  Gospel of John alone is enough to have some folks toss more wood on the  fire. (I was reaching for the wood even while I was roasting.) Because next  the confounding man, in that luxuriant prose of his, will lead the reader  to places of truth so dead-on that after railing him in one breath, you're  cheering him in the next.   <br />I can't figure the man out, but I adore him.  He's some kind of champion for God. He faces, unafraid, subjects many  scholars skirt (like the miracles of Jesus), and he has the unmitigated  chutzpah to go places many will not. (Hence the need for the barbeque  sauce.) This book is a vehicle. A vessel. Whether it's a vessel of  &quot;noble use or common&quot;, I suppose that's up to the reader. Or God.  I found within this vessel some mighty good stuff. He has me looking at my  Jewish neighbor with different eyes, like maybe we're related or something.  At the least, this book gave me things to think on. And if that's what  reconciliation means...why Mr. Cahill, I do declare.	2000-08-12
US	50177820	R1TFHHH8TZVWEH	0785268480	473636941	Rachel's Tears: The Spiritual Journey of Columbine Martyr Rachel Scott	Books	5	6	8	N	N	Her kingdom was not of this world.	I didn't expect to buy it. (...) Another book on the Columbinetragedy, I thought, and picked up something else. I'm not sure how itwound in my hand, much less in my bag of purchases. I started reading the next day, and didn't stop.  I discovered it wasn't another book on the Columbine tragedy. It's a book for parents who try hard, pray hard, to raise their kids to know and love God.  It's a book for parents who don't. It's a book to stay on the shelf until younger children are old enough to read it, and most of all, it's a all a book for teenagers who are Christians, and wonder daily whether it's all worth it. It's for teenagers who move about in a scary, hate-filled world of alienation. It's for teenagers who need someone to say to them, &quot;You're making a difference. Every effort you make to be kind and to accept the &quot;unacceptable&quot; is an effort not in vain.&quot; Because kids wonder if it's all worth it. I did, at Rachel's age. Rachel's story is a ringing testament to the fact that no one need discount the depth of a young person. &quot;Do not let anyone look down upon your youth,&quot; is what Paul said to Timothy. And when Jeremiah bellyached to God about his being too young, God responded, &quot;Do not say 'I am too young', because everywhere I send you, you shall go, and all that I command you, you shall speak. Do not be afraid of them, for I am with you to deliver you.&quot; Was Rachel delivered? some will wonder. I suppose that answer ties in with the Man who said, &quot;My kingdom is not of this world.&quot;	2000-07-31
US	50177820	R2ZFFQSM7RLZ0V	0785274251	131153224	I Was Wrong: The Untold Story of the Shocking Journey from Ptl Power to Prison and Beyond	Books	5	47	50	N	N	Mallowcups for Jimmy.	This book never interested me. I stuck my little nosey up at it, not  wanting to peer at someone's icky past and wade through all their dredged  up pain. I read the book because a friend I respect read it. Her review  startled me into reading it. <br />What I discovered about Jim Bakker is that  we have much in common. Short synopsis: Guy makes mistakes. Guy is in the  pits. Guy discovers who God REALLY is.  <br />This story is about a man who  made mistakes, not the ones we thought, but maybe the ones we are more  familiar with. It's a beautiful story of redemption, of God redeeming the  redeemed. This story is not only Jim's, but Billy Graham's and Billy's son,  Franklin. They lined themselves up with Jim, like Jesus did with the woman  who had somes stones coming to her.<br />I had a rock or two in my hand before  I picked up this book. Got no more rocks...but I do have some Mallowcups.  I'd share 'em with you, Mr. Bakker, if I ever got the chance.	2000-07-10
US	50177820	R3PUTDAEE4YVG8	1577482239	576123845	Watchman Nee: Man of Suffering (Heroes of the Faith)	Books	5	19	19	N	N	The genuine article.	The folks I've noticed who command respect across the board are the ones who have a humility beyond what is natural. Mother Teresa, for example, was respected by the good, the bad, and the ugly. (I'm not sure which category  I fall into.) Those who know of Watchman Nee, from a fistful of multi-hued  denominations, have a deep respect for him as well. He was a man who lived  and died for Jesus in China. Nothing fancy, he didn't even like to put a  name on his church. He simply loved God and he loved people and they stuck  him in a cell for it. This book is in a series of biographies of leaders in  the Christian faith, and I was particularly delighted in how well the book  was written; I am sometimes suspicious of what appear to be cranked-out,  serial books. No fear on this one, the writing was so good I forgot about  it and enjoyed the story. I remember one line quoted from a Chinese  proverb, which seems to typify the life of Watchman Nee: He who puts his  head above the crowd is in danger of decapitation. Watchman Nee was plain  bread, the salt of the earth, the genuine article.	2000-06-16
US	50177820	RQR05BXNDBA5S	1576731863	351551970	Redeeming Love	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Mallowcups for Franny.	Once in ten years I'll read a romance novel. This time I chose Redeeming Love, on recommendation from a friend, and because I read the Mark of the Lion series and figured I'd be on safe ground--( For me, &quot;The  Mark&quot; series has more of a Thoene/historical feel than romance.)  Redeeming Love went so far beyond a romance read that I include it in my  list of recommends even to guys. The cover, I admit, terrified me; I read  it on faith in my friend's word alone...and I'm ever glad I did. Before I  read it, and I advise this to anyone before reading Redeeming Love, I read  the book of Hosea. It gave me a clear idea of what Franny was trying to do.  I also advise reading the fascinating publisher's note at the front of the  book--I understood why he wrote it when I finished the book. Redeeming Love  is the story of a woman afraid to love, afraid of love, and the man who,  against logic and right, wouldn't give up on her. Many times I'd have to  set the book down and think on God's love, how impossible it is, and how  relentless. What a picture you given, Fran, what an idea of a person's  worth. The greatest compliment I can give you is this...what you set out to  do, you did.	2000-06-10
US	50177820	R2NYWUI8X8KA4A	0345397452	370314504	A Simple Path	Books	5	16	17	N	N	Why do we make it so stinking hard?	Mother Teresa used to threaten me, the way all good people do. I thought she had nothing to say to me (that I wanted to hear anyway) because she would challenge a part of me that didn't want guilt. How could I relate to  a non-stop self-denial works machine? Surely, a part of her had to be dead  or dying or in denial. I wanted to find out more. In her book, &quot;No  Greater Love&quot;, I learned that Mother Teresa was a person  who saw  Jesus in &quot;the distressing disguise&quot; of not only the poor, but the  abused and the cruel and the mean and the unloved. For Mother Teresa,  response to that person is response to Jesus. (&quot;When I was hungry, you  gave me something to eat...&quot;) In &quot;A Simple Path&quot;, two paths  seem to be explored: the simple life path Mother Teresa herself followed,  and the simple path the volunteers of the Missionaries of Charity (the  order she founded) follow. The exploration of both pathways was, for me, an  eye-opener. Here are people who simply minister to needs, and who do not  force feed Jesus to the one in need. The paradox is that many who are  ministered to end up turning to God...perhaps because they saw a little bit  of God in the person who helped. And Mother Teresa's take on finding God?  Pray.  &quot;If you find it hard to pray,&quot; she says, &quot;you can say  'Come Holy Spirit, guide me, protect me, clear out my mind so that I can  pray.'&quot; I didn't realize a works machine could teach me so much. A  Simple Path, maybe; a simple woman, never. This review may be wordy, but  I'd never have enough space to quote the things she said that stopped me  dead. Read this book and discover the depth of a woman who is called a  saint, and how she happened by the name. I've learned Mother Teresa can  teach me something, and I can still eat chocolate and spend money with no  serious guilt. Means she said a few things that went beyond coughing up  change for the poor. (I only wonder if she could see Jesus in the  distressing disguise of a manic four year old.)	2000-06-09
US	50177820	R1UHB4KQPWSUTX	0785268766	667110052	Rise Above: God Can Set You Free from Your Weight Problems Forever	Books	5	16	23	N	N	Gwen is mean.	Well, she is. Most prophets are, or are perceived to be. When I'm getting some unasked for but much needed advice from my best friend, for example, I am filled with snarkiness--because I know how right she is. Truth is  something that makes my hair hurt. I keep reading Gwen's books because I'm  some kind of masochist. I also read them because truth has a way of cutting  a person loose. With Gwen's first book, The Weigh Down Diet, I lost ten  pounds. With Rise Above, I lost another ten. The weight has stayed off. I  have about, oh, two more books worth to lose, so I hope she keeps writing.  I suggest a devotional, a daily shot-in-the-arm type of book that I can  refer to daily, and get my fix of mean old truth. Speaking of truth, I  heard a line from the movie &quot;The Insider&quot; which reminds me of  Gwen's work: &quot;The greater the truth, the greater the damage.&quot; It  takes a stubborn woman like Gwen to speak to a stubborn woman like me, and  Gwen--I'd share a Mallowcup with you. (Within the boundries of hunger and  fullness, of course.)	2000-05-25
US	50177820	R22YHROZRFMO6L	1577310063	311050324	No Greater Love	Books	5	179	181	N	N	Can't Wait To Share Mallowcups With Her.	I can count on two hands the number of books I've read that have made foundational changes in my life. This is one. From this book I learned the following: &quot;If you are humble, nothing will touch you, neither praise  nor disgrace, because you know what you are.&quot; And (this is Mother  Teresa quoting Gandhi)...&quot;If Christians were to live their Christian  lives to the fullest, there would not be one Hindu left in India.&quot; And  last, &quot;Let us put love into action. Let us begin with our family, with  our closest neighbors. It is difficult, but that is where our work  begins.&quot; I learned from Mother Teresa that God does not ask us to  ditch it all and head for Calcutta or the local soup kitchen; He asks  something harder. He asks us to live our lives inside out, where we are at.  He asks us to love those in our own sphere, those in our own perimeters.  Makes sense, I suppose. The change always starts at the core, at our heart,  and seeps out from there. Makes sense it would touch first those closest to  us...it's simply easier to keep a distant focus. This book did what I did  not expect, it brought my focus to those closest to me. I've loaned it out  so many times that I finally decided to get another copy for personal  reference again. I wish I could thank her for what it meant to me, but  she'd shoo it all on Jesus anyway.	2000-05-18
US	50177820	R12EFA7T4KQTCQ	0385418493	610658517	How the Irish Saved Civilization: The Untold Story of Ireland's Heroic Role From the Fall of Rome to the Rise of Medieval Europe (The Hinges of History)	Books	5	12	21	N	N	Mallowcups for my man, Mr. Cahill.	Mr. Cahill, I'm not sure you realize what disservice you have done to the history book industry. See, I'm headed to Ireland in June and several months ago purchased your &quot;How the Irish...&quot; and another history  book of Ireland of which name I will not mention because I am about to be  mean. The Irish history book is a slog fest, a feat not unlike swimming in  peanut butter. In comparison, your book was like an entire evening of  Nitrous Oxide. While I had to schedule the reading for the other (five  pages a day), your book Pied Pipered me into a fascinating history of a  people I am humbled and proud to call my own (Murphy.)  What delight! I  loved it so much, and walked away with something in my pocket. I rejoiced  in the way you ended it, with unashamed HOPE. You may not be popular for  it, because hope seldom is, but I would share a Mallowcup with you. Thanks  for a great book, and please please PLEASE write more history books, will  you? I'm not happy to finish the other history book (I prefer the Nitrous)  but I know for certain which history I will take to Ireland with me.  Thanks, Mr. History Man.	2000-05-15
US	50177820	R1DJBCVKOAXZHB	0385496095	860500413	Traveling Mercies: Some Thoughts on Faith	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Mallowcups For This Woman, Please	I'd like to sit down with Anne and eat some Mallowcups with her. I only do that with people I respect. I enjoyed Traveling Mercies very much, and would give it to my mother, creative use of profanity and all. Speaking of mothers, the reason I gave this book four instead of five stars was the  section she wrote about her mother. I winced through it, wondering what Mom  Lamott thought when she read it. In this case, did Anne's honesty come with  a pricey tag? Ah, who knows. I only know I want to share a Mallowcup with  Anne. Great book, you of the dreadlocks.	2000-04-30
US	50177820	R23IB3I5ORAOW	0880706317	482734531	The Ragamuffin Gospel: Good News for the Bedraggled, Beat-Up, and Burnt Out	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Can't Stop Passing This Book Out	Ragamuffin Gospel moved me deeply, though it's hard to articulate why. Pinning down the grace of God does not come easy to me. I cannot frame it, explain it, or quote it, but I can recognize it. Brennan Manning's version of it turned on a few lights for me. I can understand the frustration with  other comments on the book's lack of, um, didactic style; when I give this  book to someone and they ask what it's about, I cannot pin it down to a  teaching on grace or a spiritual memoir. My pigeon-hole mentality can't  stand that. But I do know it touched me personally: it made me drop some  prejudices. It made me cut some slack to a neighbor. It humbled me. If it  lacked a wham, wham, wham, three-points-and-a-poem style, it still  delivered. If I read a book that actually humbles me, and helps me make an  effort to treat a neighbor with more respect, it gets five stars from me.	2000-04-30
US	50177820	R36G22YPUIJF04	0670889113	903187291	Jerusalem Vigil (The Zion Legacy Series)	Books	5	16	16	N	N	The Thoenes Shall Pay.	Once again the Thoenes have held me hostage with their remorseless ability to regale without pity. Since I believe in justice, however, I believe the Thoenes will be made to answer for my uncompleted tasks and vague responses to questions. I'm talking about their latest release, Jerusalem Vigil, and  my own inablity to leave the book alone. (Not my fault.)  Told from varied  perspectives, Jerusalem Vigil is the story of the Jewish state of Israel  born into war. The story pace the Thoenes employ, though relentless, is  itself an effective picture of war without coffee breaks. This pace allows  the reader to experience the reality of grinding, heartbreaking, ceaseless  effort. I was too tired to floss.  In the progress of action-riddled story  development, the Thoenes manage to make the reader care deeply about the  characters. From two orphaned Arab boys to an old rabbi with an ancient  secret, Brock and Bodie have again presented a mural of characters I'd like  to have over for a barbeque. I'd pick the brain of the rabbi, talk battle  strategy with Moshe, and make sure the orphans have their fill of their  favorite lamb/rice stuff.   Brock and Bodie Thoene are two of the most  skillful storytellers I've ever read. Their stories are even more  compelling knowing the lengths they pursue to get the facts on which to  build their storylines. (They once spent four months on a barge in Paris,  along with several research assistants, to research the facts for their  novel Twilight of Courage.) They have a special and consistent skill to  plumb emotion, to make the desire of the characters the desire of the  reader. The immediate events following the birth of Israel, including the  withdrawl of English presence and the amassing of Arab troops against the  comparative handful of Jewish defenders, are told with passioned homage to  history. With Jerusalem Vigil, the Thoenes have given a singular gift in  this, their record of May 14 through May 18, 1948. It's a record of bravery  and passion, kindness and cruelty, miracles and near-mystic courage. The  record belongs not to Jews alone, but to the Gentiles who fought at their  sides, and yes, to the Arabs who fought with passion born of their own  deeply felt beliefs.  Despite my gratitude for this splendidly written and  engaging book, I still hold the Thoenes responsible for lost sleep and  objects between my teeth.  The fact that the next book in the series is not  due out until October only adds to the friction between me and this  hostage-holding couple. I shall haughtily await the next release, and hope  in the meantime the Thoenes learn a little respect for the time and  family-concious public.	2000-04-28
