US	50178145	R16O3DK6VKRJL5	0851705693	124063170	The 'Three Colours' Trilogy (BFI Modern Classics)	Books	1	19	26	N	N	Three colours: grey	Even at the time of its release (1993-94), Kieslowski's 'Three Colours' trilogy (in which the ideals of liberty, equality and fraternity embodied in the French flag are ironically applied to such dilemmas in modern life as grief, communication in a media-saturated culture and post-communist capitalism) was seen as the last gasp of a 'world cinema' auteur tradition that had flourished in the 1950s and 60s, but had become virtually moribund by the 1980s.  At the time, however, reviews were mixed: some critics were in raptures at the rare, spiritual power of these films, treasuring their exploration of inner lives, and holding them as a Fine Art stick with which to beat the commercial inanities of modern Hollywood; others decried Kieslowski's rejection of a political cinema, his retreat into a self-indulgent, decorative, bourgeois-currying aesthetic of the individual.<br />Geoff Andrew was, from the start, one of Kieslowski's most ardent acolytes, but his study of the trilogy is wholly inadequate as an analysis of Kieslowski's complex art.  Film editor for listings rag Time Out, Andrew doesn't progress beyond the insights offered in original newspaper/magazine reviews, and his prose is littered with the kind of quotable hyperbole designed for snipping from articles and pasting on blurbs and posters: 'an extraordinarily affecting triptych', 'deft black comedy', 'Kieslowski's greatest achievement'.  The whole point of this BFI Classics/Modern Classics series was surely to go beyond the platitudes of contemporary opinion, and put the works in some kind of context or framework.  <br />Andrew's study is the kind of bland, untheoretical fanzine that used to pass for film criticism in the 60s - the films are treated as simply the poetic inspirations of a great auteur.  There is no attempt, for instance, to see how issues such as finance might affect certain aesthetic decisions (casting, location etc.), or what the contributions of other personnel might be.  Kieslowski's  intellectual and cultural heritage as a Pole, a reader and a film-maker is ignored as if he was a singular genius who emanated from the ether, untouched by environment, circumstance or influence.  <br />After a brief sketch of Kieslowski's pre-'Three Colours' career (which is extraordinarily reduced to the level of films anticipating the trilogy, rather than major works in their own right), the 'analyses' of the 3 movies are actually mere synopses, while the 'critical' chapters, charting thematic and formal connections, and links with Kieslowski's previous features, never gets beyond mere listing, never coheres into anything resembling an interpretation.  The density of these playful, ambiguous, deeply ironic films is reduced to the trite, touchy-feely Disneyesque message 'Love conquers all'.  Worse, the films themselves are discussed as if they were mere screenplays, in terms of plot and character, as if they were books; anyone who has seen a Kieslowski picture will know that these are the least interesting elements (or, at least, that they are undermined by various formal and narrative procedures), and to properly interpet Kieslowski, a detailed, informed account of his style is needed.  On the DVDs of the films there are interviews with his editor Jacques Witta, and masterclasses from Kieslowski.  These interviews show how profoundly meaning derived not from plot or character, but from complex decisions about editing, timing, rhythm, colour, texture, framing, sound etc., about how material that was shot but didn't work in the editing suite could be abandoned or rearranged.  Anyone who wants to gain a greater understanding of these elusive films would do better to skip this book and get the DVDs instead.	2002-05-27
US	50178145	R1N2ASP94ANRNC	0316358517	415700528	The Shooting Star (The Adventures of Tintin)	Books	5	31	32	N	N	Herge's wartime Swiftian satire.	After a string of stories loosely based on mystery/crime plots, 'The Shooting Star' initiates the formula that would become fairly standard in the Tintin books to come: the science-fiction adventure, a kind of modernist Jules Verne.  A huge meteorite flying past earth splinters a large fragment which lands near the North Pole.  Containing a new metal called phostlite, named after the astronomer who detected it, Tintin and Snowy join an expedition of world-class scientists to lay claim to the rock, in a ship captained by one Haddock, now unlikely President of the Society for Sober Sailors (despite smuggling crates of whiskey for the journey).  Their quest, however, is pre-empted by another expedition, financed by crooked Sao Rico banker, cigar-chomping (anti-Semitic caricature?), Bohlwinkel.<br />The first dozen pages of 'Star' are unequalled in literature for sustaining a nightmare mood of unaccountable suspense and anxiety (appropriate given the Occupation context [1941] in which the story was written).  The meteor is introduced as both a speedily growing incandescence in the night sky, and by a melting heat afflicting the usually drizzly Brussels, the tar on the roads melting, armies of rats fleeing the gutter, car-tyres popping and mad prophets pronouncing millenarian judgements.  The spangled blackness of the sky is offset by the dreamlike twilight blue that illuminates the streets.  When Tintin rushes to the observatory, he finds the spanking, steely modern technology run by an eccentric gaggle of Dickensian relics, all black frock-coated dodderers, running around in the vicious circles of their own self-absorption, headed by the appropriately-named, anvil-headed Phostle.  When he encourages Tintin to look into the giant, cannon-priapic telescope for himself, he sees a colossal spider heading towards the planet.<br />No work could keep up that sweat-making momentum, and Herge wisely lets the narrative dip, mixing comedy (including Haddock's pathetic attempts tosneak a nagan, Snowy's incessant raids on the kitchen, and the sight of the world's finest minds keeling over in green-faced sea-sickness) with race-against-the-clock suspense as our heroes strive to reach the meteor, despite various chilling sabotage attempts by their rivals.  The meteor itself is a creation worthy of Swift, soon erasing memories of 'The Black Island'.  The affirmative faith in science that propels the action is undermined by the instabilities of the sinking meteor, with its magnified lifeforms (including flies and spiders) and exploding toadstools (among the book's many great visual effects, the best is possibly the shrinking in successive frames of our hero as the mushroom enlarges).  The massive apples that knock Tintin on the head may be an ironic allusion to the great Enlightenment hero Newton, who could be said to usher in modern science, and the famous fruit in the Garden of Eden (like Adam, or Columbus, Tintin explores virgin land), a warning against the dangers of pursusing too much knowledge (earlier predicted by the decline into madness of the scientist Philippus); nature will always fight back, in ever more aggressive and distorted forms.	2002-05-27
US	50178145	R37N9WN81LCMHL	1564781755	124101603	London Bridge (French Literature)	Books	5	21	21	N	N	A Maxwell's Demon  on the brink of collapse.	'London Bridge' continues the misadventures of Ferdinard, anti-hero of 'Guignol's Band' and altar-ego of Celine.  Exiled in the London underworld during the Great War, having served at the front and been decorated for bravery, a shellshocked Ferdinand, shrapnel in his brain, prone to fits and blackouts and a gammy left arm, on the run after the violent death of an associate, has hooked up with Sosthene de Rodiencourt, an aging Orientalist mystic.  To finance a trip to Tibet, both have offered their services to a wealthy baronet, Colonel O'Collogham, who is testing military gas-masks in the hope of landing a lucrative contract.  While Sosthene and O'Collogham test the masks, rattling the large house with bombs and chemicals, Ferdinand attempts to resist the lure of his host's angelic, underage, skimpily-dressed ward, Virginia, whom the Colonel humiliates by whipping in front of the servants.  Terrorised by paranoia (that both the police and his old cronies are after him), a trip into the city for supplies sees Ferdinand confronted with unwelcome shades from the past.<br />The exhausting, febrile, exclamatory style of 'Bridge' takes its cue from its two protagonists, the mentally disoriented Ferdinand and the rythmically possessed Sostehme, with his epileptic Eastern dances.  Comprising a handful of extended set-pieces, Celine doesn't so much describe the action so much as circle around it like a deranged vulture, skirting it with an excess of repetition, obscenity and slang.  Ferdinand's 'reportage', coloured by paranoia, hallucination, spasms, fantasy, desire, dream, rage, confession, frustration, guilt, fear and shellshock is further disoriented by the skittish rhythms of his partner, whose possessed, frenzied dances imitate cod-Oriental texts.  Many of the teeming set-pieces reveolve around literal dances - the acrobatic choreography of a ghost in a pulsing nightclub; the attempts by Sosthene to stop traffic in Picadilly with a ritualistic dance - and the style mimics their wild, jerking, swaying movements.  The novel's coup-de-grace is an astonishing 100 page parody of Proust's 'Time Regained', using the same subject matter - Zeppelin air-raids, a phantasmagoric social occasion in which the hero meets figures from his past; the disorienting mix of aristocracy and criminality - but grinding it through a snarling demotic, brutal lowlife energy and slapstick violence, culminating in the arrival of a four months-long decomposing corpse.  <br />This misanthropic catalogue of degraded and violent, if vibrant, human interaction finds room for some of the most vivid, hyperbolic and poetic descriptions of (a re-imagined) London in literature, with its labyrinthine back-streets, infernal hideouts and hangouts, and the teeming, larger-than-life activity of its ports, just as England's imperial glory is coming to an end.  <br />The compulsive present-tense immediacy of the narrative is occasionally broken off by reminders of the narrator's vantage-point in the hell of World War 2, with the full knowledge of civilisation's embrace of the abyss.  This twisted nostalgia, complete with incredulous winkings with the reader, mixed with Shakespeare, fairy tale and the Arabian Nights, illuminates the violence and grime with a genuine enchantment.<br />The full flavour of Celine's complex, neologistic verbal onslaught can never be caught in English, but translator Dominic di Bernardi comes closest yet, capturing rhythm, pace and the sheer overabundance or words, and is a vast improvement on the existing version of 'Guignol's Band' (any chance of having a go at that now, Mr. di Bernardi?)	2002-05-15
US	50178145	R291B3FFAH83D6	0316358339	965312891	The Crab with the Golden Claws (The Adventures of Tintin)	Books	5	22	22	N	N	Oh Columbus!  It's Captain Haddock!	The adventure every re-reader of Tintin waits impatiently for, Captain Haddock's debut.  We first meet him on board the merchant ship Karaboudjan, his alcoholism being fuelled by a nefarious mate, the hatchet-faced Allan, who is smuggling opium in tins of crab meat.  It is curious that such a weak, defeated, decadent figure should become such a beloved, even heroic character for generations of readers - in the context of the Nazi-Occupied Europe in which the book was written, the resonance of Haddock's spiritual progress - from manipulable weakling to tortured prisoner to victim of (collaborationist?) police brutality to ferocious resistant - is easier to fathom.  Besides his inability to resist bottle-sized tipples, the captain is famous for a bellicosity unleashed in an inexhaustible gust of arbitrary, all-inclusive epithets ('Rats! Ectoplasms! Freshwater swabs! Bashi-bazouks! Cannibals! Caterpillars!'); his rage often sufficient to ward off enemies.  Beneath these terrifying outbursts, however, and the tendency to Thom(p)son-like imbecilities (such as the drunken kindling of a fire on a longboat), Haddock is really a kind of human Snowy, someone whose essentially good instincts are led astray by appetite, someone who needs the affection, reassurance, security and stability offered by Tintin's tolerant friendship.  He is a brave man of an earlier, more chivalrous age, stranded in a modernism blighted by criminals and the counterfeit.<br />This marvellously funny episode begins as a mystery story, with Thompson and Thomson investigating the death by drowning of a sailor whose remains include clues that prompt Tintin to investigate the Karaboudjan.  In terms of incident and visuals, 'Crab' harks back to the earlier 'Cigars Of The Pharoah' (another introductory adventure, that time the Thom(p)sons), with its drug-smuggling plot, its misadventures at sea, its awesome African sandscapes and the delight offered by Thom(p)sonian buffoonery.  The depiction of French Morocco, its eternal sunlight riven with omnipresent shadows, echoes the Metaphysical/Surrealist world of de Chirico, while there are many jokes inspired once again by silent cinema, especially two 'Gold Rush'-quoting hallucinations in which a thirst-crazed Haddock imagines Tintin as a bottle of champagne.  <br />An added bonus are four full-page plates you will be sorely tempted to rip from the page and hang on your wall - a looming airplane terrorising our capsized heroes bobbing in a Hokusai sea; a panting Tintin and Haddock trekking an endless desert, happy Snowy chomping the massive bone of a dromedary skeleton and acknowledging the 'camera'; the trio in pursuit down a crowded Moroccan alley, amazingly detailed and coloured, and seemingly on the brink of collapse; and an archway-framed composition of the Thom(p)sons shadowing a suspect in one of their hapeless attempts at blending in with the locals, bournos failing to hide their ever-distinctive black suits, bowlers and moustaches.  As ever, Tintin, like Sherlock Holmes, is much more successful with disguise, and learns something about the contempt directed at the poor in certain societies.	2002-05-14
US	50178145	R5PH49YLR9HYF	072323468X	199704371	The Tale of Jemima Puddle-Duck (Peter Rabbit)	Books	5	23	28	N	N	Naturalistic polemic in duck's clothing.	I always had Beatrix Potter down as an avatar of Home Counties tweeness, with her anti-modern paeans to the countryside and de liddle cuddly animals.  So the unsentimental brutalities of this story came as a welcome shock.  'Jemima Puddle-Duck' is as endearingly hopeless as her name suggests, unable to tend her eggs in the overcrowded barn she shares with some supercilious hens.  She flies over the forest in search of a suitably solitary spot, and comes across a helpful gentleman dressed in tweed, reading 'The Sporting Times'.  He is a fox, and invites her to make use of his summer residence, in particular the shed carpeted with the feathers of previous victims.  Dazzled by his good breeding, Jemima accepts his offer and visits daily.  When the eggs are about to hatch, Foxy suggests she bring along various goodies so they can have a charming goodbye party...<br />The unremitting violence in this story does not emanate from where you'd expect, and this clear-eyed vision of the natural order of things, of brute force vs. cunning, takes place in the most idyllic setting yuou can think of, a richly detailed rural England, its hills and plants alive and painted in the most soothing colours.  But even this balmy backdrop plays out a cycle of struggle for domination, with spiders eating flies, and various other creatures being horrid to one another.  <br />Written at the turn of the 20th century, just before female emancipation, it's hard not to see the woebegotten Jemima as an image of women's fate in a world run by men, both good and bad, with the fox as parisitic aristo in straitened circumstances, and the dog as paternalistic liberal.  Indeed, the whole thing plays like an Emile Zola potboiler disguised as toddler fodder.  Upsetting, cruel and marvellous.	2002-05-13
US	50178145	R29HXEIV7J2OZW	0723234671	657765450	The Tale of Tom Kitten (Peter Rabbit)	Books	4	7	9	N	N	For anyone who ever resented having to take baths.	'The Tale Of Tom Kitten' sees Beatrix Potter at her most fey.  Three young kittens muck about in the garden, tormenting their neighbouring creatures, and generally being boisterous-but-nice kids.  Their class-conscious mother (very few fathers in Potter's world) is having relatives around for tea, and gives her children unwelcome baths and brushings down, before making them wear the most appallingly naff Sundaywear.  Unfortunately, Tom's been eating one too many pork pies, and bursts out of his pale blue two-piece, looking rather seedy.  <br />The charm of this story lies in the infectious playfulness of the children, their universally-understandable indifference to their elders' desire for 'respectability', and the quaint evocation of an Edwardian farmstead.	2002-05-13
US	50178145	R1N8R4NHP8B4U1	0140066519	260199150	Maigret Meets a Milord Omnibus	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Sombre evocation of a long-vanished way of life.	This title is an English invention, unhappily signalling a facetiousness absent from a sombre Simenon story about double murder, decdence, broken lives and betrayal.  A literal translation from the French is 'The Carter Of The 'Providence'', but perhaps that was seen as too leading, even if it was Simenon's choice; another alternative, 'The Crime At Lock 14' is the most satisfying, centring on the important aspect of the novel: place.  'Milord' is set in that strange, marginal, now obsolete inter-war world of canal barges, perhaps most familiar from contemporary films of the period, such as 'Boudu Saved From Drowning' or 'L'Atalante'.  Indeed, the star of those films, Michel Simon, would have been an obvious choice to play the main non-Migret character in any film of this book, the carter Jean, a taciturn giant whose face and tattooed body are buried in a mass of hirsute overgrowth, a man who sleeps in dumb animal warmth with his horses in the barge stable, and into whose eyes Maigret can't decide whether to read imbecility or the keenest intelligence.<br />A beautiful, rich, well-dressed woman is found strangled between two sleeping carters in the tavern stable at Dizy, Lock 14.  She is the wife of an elderly English aristocrat, disgraced Colonel Lampson, who is sailing along the canal tribuatry of the Marne on his luxury yacht The Southern Cross with his sleazy but charming companion Willy Marco, and his fat Chilean mistress.  Despite his bearing and stiff-upper-lip, the Colonel conducts regular drunken orgies on board his yacht, and tolerated his wife's affair with Marco.  The other principal boat in the story is the huge barge The Providence, run by a small, timid skipper, his garrulous, kindly wife and the carter Jean.<br />Simenon characterises barge-life as a kind of shadow-world adjacent to, but unknown to, normal life around it, with its own codes, customs and language.  Although these are floating homes, not tied to any one place and potentially unstable,their slow, regular movements up and down the river, and the rules they must abide by are as rigid, claustrophobic and monotonous as any settler's.  But Simenon brilliantly captures the sense of a shifting communal life, competitive (the dense traffic on a small stretch of water means much jostling for pole position), but full of cameraderie and good humour, helping out friends in trouble, carrying messages from relatives, tipping canal-side officials.  <br />For a rooted outsider like Maigret, this world seems enchanted, his inability to crack the case matched by a terrible sense of suspension hanging over the twilit realm - it is only by breaking out of it, asserting his mobility by bicycle, that he can regain his detective prowess.  Before that, he learns many fascinating facts about the mechanics of barge life, as well as its drabness and colour, its hierarchies of boats and petty bendings of the law, the land men, women and buildings who service it (lock-keepers, tavern- and shop-owners); a group world of work and routine in which transgressive individual desire can have the direst consequences.  <br />The way Simenon himself, like a narrative elastic band, suspends the tension, allowing us to soak in the character and atmosphere, before accelerating the suspense and action, is so gripping, this must count as an exceptional early Maigret.	2002-05-09
US	50178145	RF886UOD6PLOS	0385720793	424209838	Copenhagen	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Science can even explain the darkness in the human soul?	'Copenhagen' is a history play - it charts those first, exciting decades of the 20th century, when the arcane sphere of theoretical physics reorganised the way perception was perceived, and focuses on two of its totemic figures - the half-Jewish Dane Nils Bohr, originator of quantum theory, and his protege, the German Werner Heisenberg, formulator of the uncertainty principle - and the relation of their work to the literally earth-shattering events around them: the fall-out of the Great War; the rise of Nazism; World War Two and Hitler's occupation of Europe, including Bohr's Denmark; the atomic bombing of Hiroshima.  It is a story about what it was like to live in occupied Europe, to work for a fascist regime, to watch your beloved country bombed to smithereens, to be aware of death camps as you cavil over mathematics.<br />'Copenhagan' is a mystery play - the central narrative is a labyrinthine enquiry into what exactly happened on that night in September, 1941, when Heisenberg, now head of the German nuclear programme, paid a mysterious visit to the Bohrs, just before the race laws were about to be enforced.  Did he want Bohr's help?  His approval?  Information on the Allied atomic project?  But it is also a perverted mystery play in the old medieval sense, a dark, emblematic representation of biblical events for an age in which religion has died, civilisation teeters on the brink, and scientists become Gods and popes.<br />'Copenhagan' is a philosophical play - it asks how a theoretical physics flagged as restoring humanism (by returning individual perception/point-of-view - relativity - to a conception of the universe) could lead to the atomic bomb and the mass murder of millions.  About how the rarefied abstractions of physics had such devastating effects in practice.  About who should share more guilt - the ambitious man who collaborated with the Nazis but technically had no blood on his fingers, or the decent humanist who spiritually guided the Los Alamos project.<br />'Copenhagan' is a play about three human beings puzzling over the past and their relations to one another - as you might expect from a work set in Denmark by an English writer, the shade of Hamlet hovers, in the story of a young man agonising over whether or not to act, his fraught relationship with his 'parents', and his acknowledgement of the darkness residing in the human soul.  Like 'Hamlet', 'Copenhagan' is a ghost story, in this case crossed with Sartre's 'Huis Clos', with three phantoms condemned to each other's company and uncertainty as to what exactly did happen on that September night in 1941.<br />But mostly, 'Copenhagan' is a play about science, and fearlessly showcases the most abstruse theories and theorems ever conjured.  A boffin friend assures me that the play's structure, the way characters move around the stage, the patterning of their actions, the set itself, the shaping of the narrative (an endless circling through time and space around an elusive mystery) are all masterly transpositions (and undercutting) of both men's theories to the form of drama.  Works about ideas and science can be dry, deadly things in the hands o a Shaw or Wells, but here science becomes poetry, with an integrity of meaning of its own, but also a fluid, ever-shifting fund of figurative language and ideas, taking theoretical physics a third step, having undergone theory and practice.  Science here is no longer the elitist jargon of sinister power-players, but a bleakly eloquent interpretation of our own lives, our relation to the past, family, work, history, responsibility.  <br />Like a dull amateur scientist, I have separated some of the elements that go into making Michael Frayn's 'Copenhagan' such an exhausting but exhilirating play, but it is in their interplay, their elision, their interconnectedness that its beauty and resonance lies.	2002-05-09
US	50178145	RDJ3H2QO1MONX	085170834X	657536905	Ivan the Terrible (BFI Film Classics)	Books	4	4	5	N	N	A psycho-historical trip through Eisenstein's last classic.	The story behind 'Ivan The Terrible', Sergei Eisenstein's last masterpiece, is the stuff of cinematic legend.  Approached by the Kremlin to make an historical epic emphasising the paralells between the first true Russian Tsar and Stalin, Eisenstein intended his film to be a trilogy.  Part 1, narrating Ivan's consolidation of absolute power, was well-received by its patrons, and Eisenstein was awarded the Stalin Prize.  Part 2, which focused on Ivan's rule of terror and his increasing reliance on a ruthless secret police, so enraged the hierarchy that it was shelved until after Stalin's death.  Part 3 was never made, and Eisenstein, never directing again, died two years later.<br />This is not the story Yuri Tsivian chooses to tell in his study of 'Ivan' - he is not interested in its historical context (conceived in the heat of World War 2, finished as the USSR emerged as one of the world's two superpowers).  He does not discuss 'Ivan' in terms of Soviet culture at the time, the contemporary world of art, or film history in general. He doesn't even really place it within Eisenstein's oeuvre.<br />'Ivan', though much admired, is probably Eisenstein's least popular film.  Its apparent staticness, pictorialism and theatricality seem precious compared to the dynamic energy of silent films like 'Strike' or 'Battleship Potemkin'.  Tsivian attempts to galvanise that staticness, to show how the film moves - not by a conventional, linear story, but through ideas, motifs, patterns, correspondances.  By using Eisenstein's diaries, notes, production memos, sketches and essays, he traces the contours of the two 'Ivan's - the complete one envisaged in Eisenstein's head, and the abandoned one left to posterity.  <br />This book is too dense to synopsise in a couple of sentences, and the very act of reading it (preferably with the film at hand, although the book is impeccably illustrated) provokes the act of understanding.  But there are three basic ideas:<br />1.  Each frame in 'Ivan' has a number of sources from Eisenstein's intellectual canon, be it the writings of Rabelais, Shakespeare, Balzac, Freud or Bakhtin; the art of the Renaissance or Russian murals; the traditions of folklore, alchemy or the carnivalesque; or American films by the likes of Chaplin.  These sources feed into the complex system of correspondances that comprise the movie, each character, gesture, location, lighting set-up or composition repeated again and again, but always transformed.  Despite this formidable cultural arsenal, the audience is not expected to intellectually grasp all this in one sitting; rather, the film, as all art should according to Eisenstein, uncovers 'primitive' memories buried in our own and in the collective unconscious. <br />2. Although it is nominally a historical epic, dramatising the major events and characters of their time, and their relationships to one another, 'Ivan' is truly a 'monodrama', Ivan's 'inner monologue', with all other characters and events functioning as doubling aspects of Ivan's self, persona, symbolic matrix or whatever.  Tsivian works through Eisentein's complex theories about bisexuality, language, prenatal memory etc. to explain how this works.<br />3.  Eisenstein's old practice of montage, where contrary elements were bound together by editing to create new meaning, is replaced by montage within the image, where contradictions are held in tension in mise-en-scene and acting style.<br />'Ivan' is a dense and difficult film, and this study is a dense and difficult book, reliant on bold speculation and seemingly capricious connections.  If you are new to the film or Eisenstein, I would advise you to start with something more user-friendly (e.g. David Bordwell), and then come back to it.  Tsivian is eager to analyse the film's mechanisms and origins rather than its meaning, giving his reader the tools with which to 'work' this forbidding film.  In spite of his valiant effort, though, his approach actually makes the film appear even more static: by focusing on the various steps leading up to each frame and its components, he makes it seem like one of those 16th century paintings full of recondite emblems that have to  be decoded by an expert before you can understand them.  It makes 'Ivan' seem like fine art, not cinema; and, to be frank, that is the experience of watching this awesome but dislikable film.	2002-05-09
US	50178145	R1PUXCNKGO5KNP	0316358312	239037931	King Ottokar's Sceptre (The Adventures of Tintin)	Books	5	16	16	N	N	My house is named after this book, incidentally: Syldavia.	In which an escapist Ruritanian fancy turns into an ominous allegory for Nazi aggression.  On one of those strolls with which Tintin often commences a new book, the reporter notices a mislaid book on a park bench.  He returns it to its owner, the chain-smoking, Freud-lookalike Professor Alembick, an expert on seals (of the heraldic variety), who is about to visit the Balkan principality of Syldavia to look at some rare treasures.  When Tintin notices some sinister types hanging around the Professor's apartment, and what seems to be a conspiracy plotting in a Syldavian restaurant, he decides to accompany the Professor.  On the eve of their departure, a phone call to Alembick is interrupted by screams, but all seems normal as they leave for Klow, the Syldavian capital.  Except that now the short-sighted academic can see sheep from thousands of feet in the air, and no longer smokes.<br />This extraordinary and unique entry in the Tintin canon is priceless for a number of reasons, the foremost of which is the utterly convincing creation of a non-existent realm so consistent in its internal details you can't believe it's not real.  Central to this is the travel brochure Tintin reads on the plane to Klow, reproducing in three dazzling full-length pages the history, geography and culture of this great country, including the most amazing pastiche miniature illustrating a medieval battle and an account of the incident that accounts for the importance of the titular sceptre, Byzantine in their colour and beauty.  Syldavia is a Ruritanian realm of benevolent monarchs, toy-soldier uniforms, quaint rituals, emblems and customs, all under threat from modernity in the shape of totalitarian imperialism.  Its exotic magic is subtly prepared by the lengthy contrasting prelude in Brussels, all drab brown interrupted by the heavy black of the bungling Thom(p)sons.  Herge is no sentimentalist, he is alive to the conformity and social rigidity of Syldavian society, but he is also in lovewith its precarious culture, its nobility and generosity, and makes us love and fear for it too.<br />The topography of Syldavia, with its castles, river-valleys and fir-lined mountains, and its culture, including the part-Byzantine, part-Modiligiani mural surrounding the throne room, offers unending pleasure to the eye.  The action sequences, perhaps because the stakes are so high, reach an agonising pitch.  Once again a story of such potential gravity is primarily driven by Snowy's appetite, his search for bones providing a feast of visual jokes.  The Thom(p)sons are their usual luckless joy, this time a winking Tintin joining in with us in the laughter.  Making 'Sceptre' even more perfect is the introduction of another recurring Herge character, the prima donna Signora Bianca Castafiore, that overweight interpreter of operatic waifs whose piercing voice tests even Tintin's goodwill, and prompts the exodus of animal life from forests whenever she drives by.	2002-05-08
US	50178145	R1FJQ0JDR3OS2L	0140020233	702628238	Maigret and the Enigmatic Lett	Books	4	15	16	N	N	The first official Maigret.	In 'Maigret and the Enigmatic Lett', Georges Simenon takes the hoary old Gothic trope of the double and duality, and turns it into poignant material for a story about failed lives, unrequited love, emotional dependence and brutalism.  Pietr-le-Lett is a  notorious and untouchable 'international gang' leader who is travelling from Cracow to Paris.  When Maigret arrives at the Gare du Nord to check him out, he is diverted by a murder in a train lavatory, the corpse being identical to the criminal.  Maigret follows the seemingly indifferent and suavely elegant Lett to an expensive hotel, where he surprisingly meets up with a famous multi-millionaire, friend of prime ministers.  When Lett gives the detective the slip, a clue in a photograph leads Maigret to a Northern harbour town where he finds a drunken Russian sailor and a young girl, both the image of Lett. <br />Simenon considered 'Lett' to be the first of the Maigrets, one of nearly a dozen produced in the annus mirabilis 1931.  If the character of the detective (hulking yet gentle and perceptive; not dzzlingly intellectual but relentless and intuitive; bourgeois but sympathetic to criminals, his pursuit of them more for motive than mere retibution) and method (Maigret tries to think himself into his prey by soaking up their environment) seems surprisingly fully-formed, this is because Simenon had some practice in a handful of try-out novels written under the pseudonym Georges Sim.<br />If every detective has an angle, than Maigret's is his insight into the difference between the 'material' (the criminal as a criminal) and 'moral' (the criminal as a human being) universes of criminality, Simenon initiates the reader into this recognition by making Maigret's humanitarian understanding a process rather than a given.  For instance, especially given the current political crisis in France, the book might seem initially racist, with its negative emphasis on foreigners, especially Jews; at one point, the narrator suggests: 'Every race has its own smell, loathed by others'.  The Jewish quarter, and in particular the apartment of anti-heroine Anna Gorskin, is described in the ideology-infected terms of darkness, formlessness, dirt, decay, animality, contrasted with the normal 'French' view Maigret represents for the reader.  <br />But this is to accept the seductive conflation of author, narrator and hero Simenon subverts.  As the story continues, Maigret and the reader learn the greater complexity of human nature and behaviour to humanise the Other: to do so Maigret must leave the police department and bourgeois home that defines him and chase a man (men?) of uncertain identity, nationality, even appearance; must learn that the cosy outlines and boundaries we impose on life must become 'hazy' if we are to truly understand it.<br />It is a cliche to praise Simenon for his economical evocation of atmosphere, his ability in a few abbreviated sentences to give you the smell and look of a place, even its soul; and its dramatic transformations charged by the climate.  This is true, but it is more helpful to look at the complex interaction between the different places Simenon describes, the people in them and their different modes of behaviour; be it a spacious, elegant hotel, a cod-reeking fishing village, or a borderline-underworld nightclub.  Initially, this division of space seems to record a hierarchy of social class, but gradually we see how it reveals the opposite - the fluidity and performance of class and identity, their testing  or uncovering.  Place is not static for Simenon or Maigret, but an organism animated by people like the body as blood circulates.  It is only by freezing this life - person and place - as in a photograph, that you can possibly master it.  But at a cost.	2002-05-03
US	50178145	R1P4KPAW25DWO1	0316358355	657104163	The Black Island (The Adventures of Tintin)	Books	5	22	23	N	N	Tintin's potty and magnificent British adventure.	'The Black Island' is a major return to form after 'The Broken Ear', and one of my very favourite Tintin adventures.  Set in England and Scotland, Herge utilises a very British whimsy and deadpan surrealism to chart the the young reporter's Richard Hannay-like hunt for a shady gang of forgers and fifth columnists (the adventure was serialised in 1937) - in fact the book's tone, mixing exciting mystery and bizarre humour anticipates that quintessentially English TV series, 'The Avengers'.  <br />Much of the book's pleasure lies in Herge's threading of visual motifs to pattern the story - the spluttering airplane that begins the adventure followed by a doomed cat and mouse chase between hero and villains, leading to the Thom(p)sons comandeering a mechanic as pilot even though he doesn't know how to fly, and hilariously hijacking a prestigious aerial show; or the reappearances of striking black against the appropriately muted English colours, from hapless detectives the Thom(p)sons, to the equally hapless firemen, to the haunted Black Island itself, a craggy rock crowned by a crumbling castle (whose passages and portals will delight amateur Freudians) with ominously black birds spiralling out of it, to the berserk monster who gaurds it, to the policemen who attempt to rescue Tintin.  <br />One extraordinary conceit displays Herge's masterful method of imperceptibly furthering the plot by seemingly digressive comedy, as Snowy's forlorn attempts to eat a found bone and drink leaking whisky reveal elements of the uncanny mystery.  Another subplot, involving firemen who mislay the keys to the station during an emergency, and then have to chase a magpie to retrieve them, is pure Surrealism in the style of Rene Clair or (later on) Monty Python.  Other jokes rework old favourites from silent cinema.  The recreation of English villages and countryside, and the pub-sodden ghost-lore of Scotland, surpasses even TV's 'Ripping Yarns', while the furniture in this 60s reworking is to die for.  <br />Fundamental to the pleasure of the Tintin adventures is Herge's intimate knowledge of the way dogs behave - their loyalty diverted by appetite; their happiness; their need for reassurance and sleep; the bad-temper when faced with giants and terror of creepy crawlies.  Rereading these adventures with two girls of my own has added untold pleasure to these books.	2002-04-30
US	50178145	R1FI1BCG8WKJO9	0316358509	694785775	The Broken Ear (The Adventures of Tintin)	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Minor Tintin, but still great fun.	After the artistic, technical and emotional peak of 'The Blue Lotus', Herge wisely decided to take things down a gear, rather than attempt to somehow out-marvel that seminal book.  So 'The Broken Ear' is Tintin in a minor key - the undeviating single narrative is shorn of sub-plots; the spaces of South America, compared to the intricate detail of Japan and China in 'Lotus', are comparitively broad.  <br />A fetish originating with the Arumbaya tribe is stolen from the Museum of Ethnology, and replaced with a fake.  Tintin knows it's bogus because the original had a broken ear, and discovers that two Spanish crooks are also interested in finding the thief.  Heroes and villains end up in the small South American principality of San Theodoros where Tintin is set up and put in front of a firing squad.  Saved by coup and counter-coup, Tintin is made Colonel and right-hand man of dictator General Alcazar, among whose officers appear those same two thieves.<br />'Ear' is full of typical Herge incident, from the comic pursuit of a splendidly abusive parakeet, to a suspenseful downriver kayak-trip in search of a mysterious, hostile tribe.  Herge's satiric sense shows how the political instabilities of many South American countries, with their seemingly daily military coups, are fanned by greedy European and American arms manufacturers and oil companies.  The European plunder of other civilisations, so memorably a feature of previous adventures, is once again shown to be disastrous, even fatal.  There are some wondrous visual conceits, in particular the Arumbaya rainforest sequence, which, set against an abstract, gren backdrop, frames its physical movements (fights, chases etc.) into a mysterious Matissean dance.  The representation of landscape and settlements, with the eye on revealing detail, is as resonant as ever.  <br />All this is fine, but one can't help feeling the lack of density, the rather perfunctory nature of the whole.	2002-04-30
US	50178145	R3GGCRMW20DAUJ	0316358525	340393588	Tintin in America (The Adventures of Tintin)	Books	5	41	43	N	N	Satire and serial thrills as our heroes race through the USA	Although it begins with a precise date (1931) and location (Chicago) and features a real historical figure (Al Capone), 'Tintin In America' is Herge's tribute to the mythical America of dime novels and silent serials (especially gangster stories and Westerns).  There's a real 'Perils Of Pauline' quality to Tintin's misadventures, which see the young reporter and his faithful terrier Snowy attempt to clean Chicago of gangsters, and which includes trapdoors, underground passages, falls from cliffs broken by handy branches, tetherings to railway lines etc.  On their arrival, the pair are plunged into a hectic series of mishaps - they are kidnapped by a mob stooge in a steel-shuttered limousine; sawing their way out, they are met by police, and give chase; just as the nabbed hood is about to squeal, he is knocked out by a boomerang, whose owner they pursue in a gun-stuttering chase which ends in the first of many vehicular accidents.  Throughout, Tintin will be gassed, dumped into Lake Michigan, shot at by a professional sniper, captured by Red Indians, have his brakeless train dynamited, and be thrown into a mincer.  Welcome to America!<br />The simple-minded pleasures of these melodrama cliches are supplemented by a sophisticated and often quite savage critique on modern America (having tackled Bolshevik Russia in the previous adventure), an America on the brink of globalising superpowerdom, a critique that invokes the past to indict the present.  The Red Indian sequence at first seems in dubious taste, with the warriors easily manipulated by a gang leader into mutilating Tintin - their knee-jerk savagery and comical rituals are the sad cliches of many a Western.  But in the book's most perturbing sequence, Tintin accidentally hits oil on their land; they are speedily thrown off the reservation, and oil wells, banks and a new city erected in its place; a brilliant, shocking encapsulation of the long and terrible history that underlies bright modern America.  The gangster epidemic is linked to police and presidential corruption, while the tendency of famed American democracy and justice to degenerate into mob rule and lynching is unflinchingly pinpointed, as are the ecological crimes of big business.  In fact, Herge sees American capitalism as a form of cannibalism - a sausage-grinding plant is a front for disposing of gangland enemies, their flesh mingled with animal meat for sale (the leader of the gang is a dead ringer for Foucault!).  Conversely, Tintin is at one point rescued by a labor strike!  One frame must have registered on the young Jean-Luc Godard, in which Tintin passes a landscape of car-wreckage overlooked by advertising hoardings.  The irony of the story is that America, once so new, innocent, a beacon of hope where the world's oppressed could find refuge, has become as corrupt as the Old World, to which Tintin must return ito protect HIS innocence.<br />Herge's satirical instinct does not preclude a great love for the LOOK of America, with its precisionist skyscraperscapes, and vast prairie spaces.  Herge deliberately streamlines his animation, drawing in bold, uncluttered strokes and strong, bright colours, giving some indication of the size and modernity of America, as well as its anonymity, conformity and assembly line mentality.  The nocturnal scenes, in which the overall brightness becomes deeply mysterious, are particularly beautiful.  I dare anyone who views the flabbergasting scene of Tintin clambering across an endless skyscrapter not to feel dizzy.  Within his frames, Herge creates an extraordinary dynamism of movement.  I particularly love it when characters walk on the border of the frame, as if getting ready to leap from it.	2002-04-29
US	50178145	R3UJ0J7ME3W6K6	0316358568	110028089	The Blue Lotus (The Adventures of Tintin)	Books	5	30	30	N	N	I want to be buried with this book.	Those delightful boobies, Thomson and Thompson, reappear in this sequel to 'Cigars Of The Pharoah', at one point ostentatiously disguising themselves in 'Mikado'-like finery to blend in with the Chinese locals, as they attempt to surreptitiously capture Tintin, only gathering an amused crowd in their wake.  <br />For many Tintinophiles, 'The Blue Lotus' is the most precious of all Herge's masterpieces; certainly, in the event of a fire, after my dogs, and maybe my wife, my long-battered copy would be the first thing I would rescue.  From its famous front cover - a giant, twisting black Chinese dragon on a rich red background, facing Tintin and Snowy as they hide in blue vase patterned with a bird and flowers, the images lit by a pale green lantern - every frame is a detailed artwork in itself.  Set largely in Japan and European-occupied Shanghai in the early 1930s, every frame painstakingly evokes the Oriental setting: every wall-covering, item of clothing, ornament, building, street, poster, vehicle.  Some of the landscapes and silhouettes are etched with the complex simplicity of a wood-cut by Hokusai, Hiroshige or Taige.  The eye-dazzling colour is complemented by a much higher proportion of night scenes than previous Tintins.  The deep, sombre colours give the story a melancholy (as do the peeling walls found everywhere behind the prettily picturesque Orientalist scenes).  This sadness is matched by the plot's events, not just the violent expansionist plans of Japanese fascists or the culpability of European colonialists, but a world where brave sons turn mad, and orphans nearly drown by sheer chance.  Herge's storytelling has also matured significantly since his early efforts: his pacing and variations of tone, his crosscutting and fragmenting of narrative, his sustaining mystery - all come together with superb mastery.  <br />And for the first time, because the fictional world created is so believable and historically rooted, Tintin takes on the contours of agenuine hero, much more than a mad marionette endlessly dodging melodramatic villains.  His genuine nobility, loyalty and courage, his touching friendship with the orphan Chang, all bespeak fading values in a world crashing towards totalitarianism.  A beautiful, urgent book.	2002-04-29
US	50178145	R23OGR5LP6L7GN	0416836100	205075585	Cigars of the Pharoah (English and French Edition)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	The first truly great Tintin adventure.	'Cigars Of The Pharoah' traverses the pyramids of Egypt, the deserts of Arabia, the jungles and palaces of India; and sees a vacationing Tintin stumbling on a gun-running, drug-smuggling plot centring on crates of Flor Fina cigars.  An encounter with absent-minded archaeologist Sophocles Sarcophagus instigates the action and sees our heroes, among other things, cast adrift the ocean in coffins, where they are attacked by sharks; press-ganged during a tribal war, and lined up for execution; crashing a plane in the jungle and learning the language of elephants; committed to a lunatic asylum; escaping assassination attempts by a shady fakir; as well as participating in the more familiar car chases, train adventures, mountain climbs; meanwhile, Snowy is mobbed for attacking a sacred cow.  <br />The two parts of the story are sensitively differentiated by Herge's astonishing drawing, the bright wide plains of Egypt contrasting with more richly colourful Indian milieux, with their elaborate costumes and decorations.  Herge pulls off some remarkable tableaux - the Egyptian death chamber of mummified European archaeologists; Tintin's lurid, narcotic hallucination; his flight through the gates of Mecca from an army; his sitting on elephant-back in the jungle with mad Professor Sarcophagus.  Although Herge respects the native hierarchies of the countries he draws, his image of beleagured colonialism is quite damning, with the unforgettable decline of an already barmy Sarcophagus into a babbling madman dressed in top hat, tails and undergarments shooting at butterflies a warning to all who would excavate ancient cultures for European benefit.  <br />But 'Cigars', the first truly great Tintin adventure (and part one of a story that concludes with 'The Blue Lotus'), is most notable for the introduction of two legendary characters, Thomson and Thompson, those near-identical, always resourceful, but ultimately hapless police detectives; Magrittean, bolwer-hatted Englishmen doomedto each other's punning company: 'What a surprise to see your face again!  We'd lost you completely!'  'To be precise, we'd completely lost face!'	2002-04-29
US	50178145	R3TASUP8W8JQ7I	0851707343	79128312	The Wings of the Dove (BFI Modern Classics)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Wood points the way to a new kind of literary adaptation.	When Iain Softley's 'The Wings Of The Dove' was released in 1997, critics predictably complained that it was impossible to recreate on film the interiority, ambiguity, complexity or elusiveness of Henry James' late novels.  An exasperated and mischievous Robin Wood suggests these citics bluffed a cultural knowledge they didn't possess, failing, for instance, to notice that the film was in no way a literal adaptation, but a radical reworking of a difficlt novel: 'the film's brilliance lies in its ability to stand as an autonomous work, and an intensely CREATIVE one, while remaining faithful to what might be called the novel's core'.  With the exception of three scenes, every sequence in the film is the inspired invention of screenwriter Hossein Amimi, and even these three are very different in context, content and meaning to their originals.<br />Wood prefaces his typically enlightening monograph with a cri de coeur against dullards who moan about the lack of 'fidelity' of films taken from classic books.  Their idea of faithfulness is a synoptic replication of the plot.  Softley's film offers a more interesting alternative.  Wood starts with a helpful introduction to the characteristics of James' late style, and the difficulties it presents for any adaptor; followed by a brief look at other 90s James films (Jane Campion's 'Portrait of a Lady'; Agniezcka Holland's 'Washington Square').  The bulk of the study is a minute scene-by-scene analysis of the film, showing how Softley and Amini tried to find cinematic equivalents for these characteristics, for instance by displacing psychology onto mise-en-scene, or by the invention of pregnant set-pieces that don't make immediate narrative sense, but which catch the Jamesian intuition of shadowy, unconscious forces manoeuvring seemingly (self-) conscious behaviour.<br />Wood is an enthusiastic and attentive guide, his analysis that of a patient teacher, pointing out important details or the meaning of particular stylistic choices.  Wood, one of the first great auteur critics, famously rejected the move of film criticism in the 60s and 70s into the jargon-filled realm of theory, so his is a humanistic interpretation, firmly centred on character and narrative.  He gives a greater centrality to the film's actors in the creation of meaning than more rigidly theoretical writers would allow.  Because Softley is such an unquantified persona as an auteur, Wood is free to concentrate on text text text, a freedom he clearly relishes.  <br />Because his empirical method is so focused on what is on the screen, it is easier to argue with his interpretationd and to point out the surprising errors of detail.  With endearing modesty, he admits that he finds it increasingly difficult to pin down for the reader precisely the merits of the film, and acknowledges his uncertainty whether his own interpretations are correct.  His main aim is to convey his own enthusiasm and love for this under-rated film - which he calls a 'flawed masterpiece', the imprecise role of Merton Densher being the film's least satisfactory element - and to look for ourselves.  A film lover can ask for no greater gift.	2002-04-25
US	50178145	R1JAODH2OV6OKI	0140432639	754374116	The Wings of the Dove (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	62	65	N	N	The novel could never be the same again.	The title is a Jamesian euphemism for 'Pulling The Wings Off Flies'.  In a book that is a vortex of ironies, the most fundamental is that a novel written at the highest pitch of literary sophistication, full of high-minded exchanges and a character repeatedly compared to an angel, is really about the body, one dying, the other brimming with sexual attraction and desire (for money, status and sex).  Kate Croy, impoverished with a disgraced father, is in love with Merton Densher, an impoverished journalist.  Her wealthy aunt, Maud Lowder, offers to take her in, provide all the advantages of wealth and groom her for the marriage market, on the condition she abandons both her family and her marriage plans with Densher.  Genuinely passionate for Densher, but reluctant to return to the degradations of comparative poverty, Kate has an idea. When she meets the dying American heiress Milly Theale, who coincidentally made the acquaintance of Densher in New York on a newspaper trip, Kate propses her fiance make love to her and so become a beneficiary in her imminent will, freeing the two lovers to get married.<br />Among the most difficult books in the English language, 'The Wings Of The Dove' is one of the three late novels in which James pushed the novel to a stylistic and intellectual limit, but which many readers have found awkward to read.  The difficulty doesn't lie in the verbal extrvagance of a Joyce or the dictionary-defiance of a Pynchon - the individual words in these novels are familiar and accessible.  It's what James does with them, the lengthy, elaborate sentences distended by clauses and sub-clauses, and compounded by a narration that emphasises qualification, euphemism, ellipis and ambivalence.<br />It's not, however, as if James had reached the peak of his art and decided, 'Right, I've done what I can with the conventional novel, I'm going to be virtuosically mandarin for the sake of it.'  After all, the subject matter is familiar from his more accessible work - the naive American in corrupt Europe; the decline of the aristocracy; the social manoeuvring needed by women to survive a rigidly unjust system etc.  The difficulty of 'Dove' is an intrinsic part of the novel's meaning, which is not just an acknowledgement of the unfathomable density of human psychology and motivation, but the difficulty in gauging and interpreting other people full stop.  The conflict between witholding novelist and baffled reader is played out throughout the book, with characters creating awesomely complex and allusive plots and counter-plots, staging tableaux and theatrical stand-offs, and other characters struggling to comprehend them.  Our attempts to interpret match those of the characters, with related dangers of misreading.<br />A more aggravating difficulty might arise from the story itself. The reading of 'Dove' demands a monastic dedication, a concentrated devotion of months to unravelling its many mysteries and ambiguities.  A reader likes to feel that there will be a worthy character or two who will help carry him/her over the many stumbling blocks.  But all this intricately wrought language is expended on a horrid little tale of greed and lust in which the protagonists expend fearsome intelligence on concealing unpleasantness and spinning justifications.  It might be helpful to think of the novel as an inverse 'Mansfield park', with Kate and Merton as resourceful but poor Crawfords manipulating rich outsider Fanny Price (it's significant that moral decency translates into money from Austen's to James' world).  There is little nobility or spiritual refinement here (although many readers prefer the wit and energy of the lovers to sickly 'magnificence' of Milly, her very humanity reduced baldly to its material value).  For which we can only give thanks, because there should be more to literature than that; the creation of real, believable, exposed characters, and their endlessly shifting psychologies being one of them, and for which the conventions and compromises of the traditional novel must be abandoned.  The great reward for patient reading is that our own perception becomes monre minutely alert; we learn to hear, beneath the dense verbal grid, something that 'for the spiritual ear, might have been audible as a faint far wail', something we miss if we get stuck moaning about the superficial problems of James' style.<br />Such is the exhaustiveness with which James tracks down the elusive convolutions of individual psychology and social interaction, it's easy to overlook his mastery of description.  The ratio between the two is probably 10:1, but in brief sketches, James is able to conjure whole worlds weighed down with all sorts of meanings, from the furniture-heavy mansions, dismal garrets and maze-like streets of London to the dangerous precipitations of Switzerland to the decadent beauty of Venice, all working their unnoticed influence on characters who think they arrange everything.  These descriptions are essential to the effect of a work which, if you'll let it, is dramatic, tense, atmospheric, sinister, suspenseful, exciting, funny (yes!), and emotionally convulsive.  If, as James' friend William Dean Howells suggested, it gives you a headache, well, from the books I love, I expect nothing less.	2002-04-23
US	50178145	R20GKGYMJXDFK0	0520234782	64837501	Selected Poems	Books	4	11	20	N	N	Buy it for the bonkers annotation.	'The reader seems to have some disaster of far vaster import than he can fathom.  That is the mysterious effect of Mallarme's poetry.  One gets a strange emotional effect past analysis'.  So declares translator C.F. MacIntyre of a typically impenetrable Mallarme sonnet.  Unfortunately, it's an effect the non-French reader will never experience.  In translation, somebody like Robert Frost once said, what is lost is the poetry, and no other writer exemplifies this truism more clearly than Mallarme.  Most translations will at least yield some sort of broad narrative or imagistic or intellectual sense.  Mallarme's self-contained, bookish, exquisitely artificial poetry (Borges was a fan) exists on a plane beyond sense.  It is an intensely intricate agglomeration of sounds, forms, distorted grammar, codes and riddles whose 'meaning' is not literal.  Mallarme is usually compared to a costumier, jeweller or musician, such is this artisan's devotion to the poem as crafted object.  The only real way to translate Mallarme is not to find literal English equivalents for his words as printed, but to find new word-constructions with sounds and resonances that transmute the originals' spirit, rather than sense.  But if the translator had that kind of gift, s/he wouldn't be wasting it on Mallarme translations.  Despite MacIntyre's best efforts, then, literal Mallarme in English sounds like the worst kind of sub-decadent pot-pourri, like the imitations of French Symbolism Oscar Wilde churned out in his youth.  [...]This does not mean the volume is useless.  French students struggling with the originals can use the translations as a kind of grammatical glossary, and will find MacIntyre's synopses and explanatory notes, with background and critical infomration, helpful, if dated.  The casual reader, however, will find much to enjoy.  After a few poems (including the famous 'Herodiade' and 'L'apres-mide d'un faune'), I gave up struggling with Mallarme, and gave into the pleasures of MacIntyre's annotations.  A real-life Charles Kinbote, he doesn't even seem to like Mallarme very much: one poem 'is built up of so much nothing, like a fragile pastry of whipped cream.  It is artful in the worst sense of the word... He should have had a stern editor! (As I have)'; 'Line 4 is particularly good, [a critic] insists, because it suppresses the classic caesura!  I don't think many readers would suffer if the whole sonnet had been suppressed'.  He refers to Mallarme's art as a 'dead end', execrates 'his miserably bungled up French', and cheerfully admits that he doesn't really understand the poems!  So what qualified him to translate them?!  A delectable egotism blows through the pages, from its overheated, homoerotic dedication, and the unwarranted, though very welcome, detours into autobiography and war memories, to the Olympian sneers at previous commentators.  Published in sexually unliberated 1957, MacIntyre is forced to euphemise Mallarme's detailed and relentless erotics, which leads to some splendid tongue-twisting; the frequent suspicion that MacIntyre himself misses the point of a poem like 'What silk...' ('the mouth will not be sure/in its bite of finding savor,/unless he, your princely lover,/breathe out, diamond-like, in your/considerable tuft the cry/of Glories stifled as they die'), which he says is about a woman brushing her hair at the mirror (!), is quashed by his mocking one persistently misreading critic: 'Really now.  I wish I still had Herr Wais's niaive innocence.  I really do'.  Barmy, endearing and delightful.	2002-04-02
US	50178145	R25XAWZKHAVZSU	2203001011	741326354	Tintin Au Congo: (Les Aventures de Tintin) (French Edition)	Books	4	56	70	N	N	Artistic advance for Herge, but too many dated attitudes	'Tintin In The Congo' is something of a taboo for devotees of Herge - how to reconcile the famed humanitarianism and tolerance of the Tintin books with the unthinking racism that informs this adventure?  And so there have been attempts to pretend it doesn't exist - you won't find it on the back cover of Tintin books with the other volumes - or to excuse it, by showing how Herge was merely reflecting the attitudes of his time, although, three decades after 'Heart Of Darkness' and the findsings of Roger Casement, it's difficult to justify as naive the (ahem) white-washing of genocidal Belgian colonialism, with the benevolent missionary project celebrated here, full of heroic action-priests.  This is certainly the most difficult Tintin to read - watching our hero referring to natives as 'boy'; bullying them into working, and generally abusing them for his mistakes; treating Africa as a big playground where people exist to serve him and animals for the jolly slaughter.<br />Tintin is on a safari holiday to the Congo.  His presence, however, is minsinterpreted by the area's gangsters, who send one particularly unlovely goon to get rid of him, which he attempts to do by raising the natives against Tintin.  Among the various trials inflicted on our hero, the most memorable include being hung over a river of hungry crocodiles, being charged by an army of M'hatavus; and precipitating on a branch over steep rapids.<br />'Congo' is really Snowy's adventure - from his opening struggle with a parrot on board their cruise, Snowy is prominent, getting into scrapes, endlessly rescuing his recklessly adventurous master, at one point even made king by a tribe of pygmies.  This focus is appropriate in an environment stuffed with animals; encounters with crocodiles, snakes, monkeys, buffalo, hippopotami, giraffes and rhinos make up the bulk of the action.  This has a sinister side - the monkeys bear a striking resemblance to the Africans, whose flock-like instincts, dumb obedience and malleability marks them as barely above the level of animals, their minds as primitive as their way of life.<br />There are two types of colonialism in this adventure - one, bad, that exploits the natives, treats them as slaves and robs them of their resources; the other, that of Tintin and the missionaries who teach the natives that their home country is Belgium, is benevolent, bringing railways, medicine, education technology, progress.  I think it's possible, however, that Herge, contributing to a right-wing Catholic magazine, was straining at his story's ideological limits - the reduction of the train service to a rickety tin-can hardly heralds the success of colonialism; the repeated imagery of holes, trees, fluids (water, rubber seeping from trees), arrows etc., might take on a Freudian dimensnion, suggesting unconscious anxieties behind the optimistic facade - the incident with the buffalos might suggest as much.  When Tintin prepares to shoot a rhino, the film camera he had been carrying is turned away - this is an activity best not documented.  At one point, a gangster disguises himself as a priest, momentarily suggesting a connection between the two (exploiting) groups.  Throughout the story, judgements and observations made by Tintin based on appearances - the wandering of a leopard into a schoolroom; the charge of whooping pygmies - are shown to be inaccurate.  The importation of the less pleasant aspects of colonialism - especially militarism - is seen to blow up in the natives' faces.<br />The well-meaning attempts to ignore 'Congo' is wrong, a denial of history, an attempt to pretend Western Europe was never fundamentally racist.  The real shame is that the book is a big improvement on its predecessor - the drawing is much more controlled and imaginative - memorable images include the torchlight revelation of a hunting monkey; the rescue attempt by the priest on two wires over the rapids, with the knife-wielding gangster looking on; the pygmy charge through the forest; the silhouette of Tintin hanging from the rope ladder of a biplane as he escapes a herd of buffalo.  Most brilliantly, the landscape often mirrors the action, e.g. the palm trees overlooking the homicidal witch-doctor at night.hrough the forest; the silhouette of Tintin hanging from the rope ladder of a biplane as he escapes a herd of buffalo.  Most brilliantly, the landscape often mirrors the action, e.g. the palm trees overlooking the homicidal witch-doctor at night.	2002-03-28
US	50178145	R1A04G179FI68E	0393320979	481105340	Beowulf: A New Verse Translation (Bilingual Edition)	Books	4	6	8	N	N	Bloody and marvellous.	This Anglo-Saxon epic is most famous for the struggle between the Geat warrior Beowulf and the monster Grendel (plus, later, his avenging mother), who had wreaked bloody terror on the court of the Danish King.  But this takes up less than half the poem; the second part is in many ways the more fascinating, interspersing a rush of historical narrative with Beowulf's duel with a 50-foot dragon, roused to bloodlust having been discovered in his hideout, an ancient burial mound in which the survivor of a dying race hid a gold-hoard, a thousand years ago.<br />The modern reader may have to undertake some mental readjustment before s/he can enjoy this poem, notorious bane of English undergraduates the world over.  It's not just the language (which would have a pronounced and regrettable influence on 'Beowulf' scholar Tolkien), or antique world-view that tries to reconcile Christianity with a violent warrior culture of battles and blood-feuds.  The formal presentation of the narrative can be off-putting, even tedious - the action set-pieces we look forward to go by in a handful of brusque lines, while endless formal speeches and boasts (usually beginning 'X, son of X, spoke') clog up the poem.<br />In other ways, however, the poem seems unexpectedly modern, its form pleasingly complex.  Although the narrative events are essentially linear, there is a rich use of flashbacks and flashforwards, constantly undercutting the complacency and elation of the present tense.  So, for instance, at a feast celebrating a great victory, the Geat hero is presented with a ring, which, we are immediately told, will be worn by his king on the day he dies, in a battle of 'carnage', where 'Geat corpses covered the field'.  Then straight back, without pause, to the feast: 'Applause filled the hall'.<br />'Beowulf' is, in any case, set in the long distant past: the poem's first line reminds us that this is a story from 'days gone by'.  A heavy mood of elegy palls the poem.  The anonymous poet celebrates the nobility and bravery of exceptional warriors, recreates with vivid detail a lost aristocratic world obsessed with reputation, and tied to a resonantly-described land and sea; a world of beautiful, exceptionally crafted riches.  But these secular pleasures are transient: when gold that has glittered throughout the poem, and has inspired the slaughter of many men, is buried under a mound, the poet sardonically notes: 'gold under gravel, gone to earth,/as useless to men now as it ever was'.<br />This is why those formal speeches, with their insistence on names, families, titles, places and histories, are so important - they are the futile attempt by man to create a bulwark of order against the inevitability of death.  This hierarchy contrasts with the darkness and formlessness of Grendel and his realm, as shadowy and undiscriminating as Death itself. He is not Death, though, but a descendent of Cain, a visual emblem of man's sin and its continuity - later the collapse of a dynasty is similarly caused by the murder of a brother.  Beowulf is the greatest of heroes, valiant, skilful, intelligent, but generous and humorous, too: ultimately, however, his fate is that of all  - 'Famous for his deeds/a warrior may be, but it remains a mystery/where his life will end'.<br />Seamus Heaney's translation has earned the usual begrudging nit-picking from academics, who seem to forget that a poem is not a museum piece, but a living thing.  Especially when read aloud, as such a poem should be, Heaney's modestly-concealed achievement becomes apparent - in recreating the alliterative energy, atmosphere and ultimately tragic mood of the original, he brings a long dead world to life.  His introduction to the epic, its origins, critical history and possible meanings is a lovely prose poem in itself, although the part about how he came to translate 'Beowulf' is a self-parodic exercise in critical political correctness.	2002-03-28
US	50178145	R2BCGF0GPMHTXD	0851708234	675577619	Belle de Jour (BFI Film Classics)	Books	5	17	18	N	N	Bunuel needs a mind as open as his - Michael Wood has it.	Michael Wood, the most elegant and enquiring literary critic of his generation, has also written widely on film.  He is the author of books on Stendhal and Nabokov, and is currently writing a study of Proust. In other words, he is familiar and comfortable with Cultural Giants in a way most film critics and academics are not.  This allows him to speculate and make seemingly random or wild connections on his subject with a confidence most film writers, slaves to theory and discipline, lack.  This makes him the perfect interpreter of Bunuel, who needs such a suggestive approach, and whose critical star has fallen in the last two decades precisely because his work doesn't fit neat frameworks.<br />'Belle De Jour' - the story of frigid doctor's wife Severine, who loves her husband but can only find sexual fulfilment working by day in a brothel - inaugurates the period known as 'late Bunuel', when the old Surrealist had access to bigger budgets, big stars and glossy colour.  Because these films lack the abrasive iconoclasm of his most characteristic work, they are usually described as 'serene', 'mellow', repentant; Pauline Kael suggests they attain the 'path to grace'.  Wood argues 'both Severine and the film hide the world behind an image of the world.  We only see what they see or show; but we know it's not all there is.  There is a serenity in 'Belle De Jour' and in all of Bunuel's late films, but it is not his.  It is the false and fragile serenity of the society he pictures'.<br />Wood suggests some of the ways Bunuel achieves this, in a gorgeously written study.  He delineates the depth, subtleties and strategies of Bunuel's seemingly brusque and plain style.  He discusses the brilliant actors - notably Catherine Deneuve, Michel Piccoli and Genevieve Page - and the importance of their screen personae to their roles.  He shows how literally faithful Bunuel is to his source, Joseph Kessel's novel of the same name, and how radically he departs from its assumptions andform, transforming a traditionally psychological novel into an anti-character anti-narrative.  The most brilliant section analyses the status of dreams, fantasies and memories in the film, and whether they displace the 'reality' of the film's fictional world, showing how Bunuel could claim to despise psychology (as a way of explaining the apparently accidental processes of the mind) and yet be devoted to Freud (as discoverer of the unconscious, 'one of the favourite playgrounds of accident').  He suggests that Bunuel replaces the reductive closure of a definitive resolution with a simultaneity of possible or alternative endings.<br />Readers will get the most out of the monograph if they have the film handy.  Wood looks at the major sequences in some depth (the opening landau fantasy; the shoes-on-staircase hesitation outside the bordello; the burly Asian with the humming box; the central sequence in the Duc's chateau; all of Husson's scenes; the enigmatic concluding five minutes).  He focuses on pertinent, missable details, attending to nuance, repetition and variation.  Not only do you get a more profound understanding of the film, but Bunuel's method, as stubbornly withheld as his heroine's inner life, opens bit by bit.  You become so focused on each scene, you notice things Wood left out, or didn't underline.  It's a rare director or critic that empowers his audience with the tools to answer back.  Bunuel and Wood are less interested in interpreting a world, a film, a book or a character, than the very act of interpretation itself.	2002-03-20
US	50178145	RZR8Y46N8J87C	0785909788	953240753	Tintin in the Land of the Soviets (The Adventures of Tintin)	Books	3	79	90	N	N	The first Tintin, rough but ready.	Tintin is sent by his Brussels newspaper to expose the true conditions of life in Bolshevik Russia, and counter the propaganda spread by Soviets and their Western fellow-travellers.  Together with his faithful fox terrier Snowy, Tintin finds famine, child hunger, bureaucratic incompetence, industrial failure, bogus propaganda, state terror, gunpoint elections and massive embezzlement of the people's wealth by the government.  Naturally, the Soviets aren't terribly keen for such information to leak out, and attempt to dispatch our hero at every turn - trying to bomb, shoot at, torture and freeze him in the endless snowy Steppes.<br />'Tintin In The Land Of The Soviets' is the first Tintin adventure, written in 1929 for a Catholic newspaper edited by a priest who would become a Nazi collaborator.  The book's propaganda is crude - as the translators point out, Herge never visited Russia, and based his 'facts' on a contemporary, reactionary book by a Belgian consul - and leaves a sour taste in the mouth.  It's not that what he shows wasn't accurate - his Soviet Russia is a totalitarian nightmare, swarming with vicious secret police; a place where citizens had their property stolen and labour abused; where starvation, torture and murder was rife; where more state effort went into destruction than construction.  The book is filled with booze-sozzled goons are frightening precisely because they have a power they don't deserve.  A lingering superstitiousness undermines this brave new world, and the images are full of delapidation and things crashing and falling apart - nothing can possibly work in such an environment.  The 'Wizard of Oz'-like scene where a guide shows gullible English communists industrial marvels that are really two men billowing smoke and rattling sheet metal, is horribly accurate.  This comic look at misery and tyranny looks forward to the Czech films of the 60s.  Nonetheless, the book never becomes satire, never moves beyond popular prejudices - the critique in 'Tintin In America' is far more effective because Herge displays a more thorough knowledge of and engagement with US history and culture.<br />The 'Tintin's we are familiar with now - painstakingly illustrated, beautifully coloured and meticulously detailed albums - only came into being in the mid-40s: earlier editions were redrafted and edited to fit the new format.  This book was the only one Herge didn't remodel, perhaps embarrassed in retrospect by its crass ideology.  Reading 'Soviets' after one of the later 'Tintin's is like watching an Ub Iwerks cartoon after 'Toy Story'.  The drawing is sometimes cruder and much less detailed than we're used to, like a loose-limbed 'Peanuts' strip.  Instead of the four strips of four columns of the later books, there are three strips of two columns - each frame is much larger and seems to lunge at the reader.  The positioning of speech bubbles is often clumsy; frequently, characters redundantly say what we can clearly see; the angle of compositions sometimes works against the action - all this can prevent a fluid reading.  Tintin himself is a different beast - beefier, more aggressive, even high-handed with a splendidly cynical Snowy - he roughs up a Cheka agent, easily dispatches a vodka-guzzling bear, and trips up passers-by whenever the need arises.  <br />Despite these flaws, 'Soviets' is a pacy and funny adventure.  Two things Herge arrived with fully formed were: his ability to express speed within and across frames; and his fascination with gorgeous moving vehicles (motorcars, trains, planes, boats) stretching across the plate.	2002-03-15
US	50178145	R396KPLZAQ35D4	0140707417	181805185	Troilus and Cressida (Penguin Shakespeare)	Books	4	37	44	N	N	The most unsung, but perhaps the most modern, of Shakespeare	One of his lesser known works, Shakespeare's Trojan play is also one of his most intriguing.  Not quite a burlesque, 'Troilus and Cressida''s lurches in tone, from farce to historical drama to romance to tragedy, and its blurring of these modes, explains why generations of critics and audiences have found it so unsatisfying, and why today it can seem so modern.  Its disenchanted tone, its interest in the baser human instincts underlying (classical) heroism look forward to such 20th century works as Giraudoux's 'The Trojan War Will Not Take Place' or Terry Jones' 'Chaucer's Knight'; the aristocratic ideals of Love and War, inextricably linked in this play, are debased by the merchant-class language of exchange, trade, food, possesion - the passionate affair at its centre is organised by the man who gave his name to pimps, Pandarus, and is more concerned with immediate sexual gratification than anything transcendental.  The Siege of Troy sequences are full of the elaborately formal rhetoric we expect from Shakespeare's history plays, but well-wrought diplomacy masks ignoble trickery; the great heroes Ajax and Achilles are petulant egotists, the latter preferring the company of his catamite to combat; the actual war sequences, when they finally come, are a breathless farce of exits and entrances.  There are a lot of words in this play, but very few deeds.<br />Paris, Prince of Troy, has abducted Helen, wife of Menelaus, King of Sparta.  Led by the latter's brother Agamemnon, and his Machiavellian advisors Ulysses and Nestor, the Greeks besiege Troy, demanding the return of Helen.  However, Achilles' dissatisfaction at the generals' endless politicking has spread discontent in the ranks.  Within Troy, war takes a distinct second place to matters of the heart.  While Paris wallows in luxury with his prize, his youngest brother Troilus uses Pandarus as a go-between to arrange a night of love with his niece, Cressida.  When one of the Trojan leaders is taken prisoner by the Greeks, the ransom price is Cressida.<br />There is only one character in 'Troilus' who can be said to be at all noble and not self-interested, the eldest Trojan prince Hector, who, despite his odd interpreation of the quality 'honour', detests a meaningless war, and tries to spare as many of his enemies' lives as he can.  He is clearly an anachronism, however, and his ignoble slaughter at the hands of a brutal gang suggests what price chivalry.  Perhaps the most recognisable character is Thirsitis, the most savagely cynical of his great Fools.  Imagine Falstaff without the redeeming lovability - he divests heroes and events of their false values, satirises motivations, abuses his dim-witted 'betters' and tries to preserve his life at any cost.  Written in between 'Hamlet' and 'All's Well That Ends Well', 'Troilus' bears all the marks of Shakespeare's mid-period: the contrapuntal structure, the dense figures, the audacious neologisms, and the intitially deferred, accelerated action.  If some of the diplomacy scenes are too efective in their parodic pastiche of classical rhetoric, and slow things down, Act 5 is an amazing dramatic rush, crowning the play's disenchantment with love (with an extraordinarily creepy three-way spaying of an infidelity) and war.<br />The New Penguin Shakespeare is the most accessible and user-friendly edition for students and the general reader (although it does need updating).  Unlike the Oxford or Arden series, which offer unwieldy introductions (yawning with irrelevant conjecture about dates and sources) and unusable notes (clotted with tedious pedantry more concerned with fighting previous commentators than elucidating Shakespeare), the Penguin's format offers a clear Introduction dealing with the play and its contexts, an appendix 'An Account of the Text', and functional endnotes that gloss unfamiliar words and difficult passages.  The Introduction is untainted by fashions in Critical Theory, but is particularly good at explaining the role of Time ('When time is old and hath forgot itself...And blind oblivion swallowed cities up'), the shifting structure, the multiple viewpoints in presenting characters, and Shakespeare's use of different literary and linguistic registers.	2002-03-11
US	50178145	RIZ1KEJP2GNMO	0851705456	456704760	Last Tango in Paris (BFI Modern Classics)	Books	3	6	8	N	N	Respectable study of once-notorious film.	When 'Last Tango In Paris' was first shown at the New York Film Festival in 1972, an ecstatic Pauline Kael declared it a New Beginning, a seminal turning point in the history of cinema, as tradition-shattering and forward-looking in its implications for the medium as Stravinsky's 'The Rite Of Spring' was for music.  This kind of hyperbole, together with the film's taboo-busting depictions of sexual relations, led to the film becoming an immediate, controversial legend.  Now that 'Last Tango' has become a respectable art-house staple, we can now agree with Roger Ebert who sees 'Last Tango' as an End, the last major European movie to make an impact in America, one of the last dramas to deal honestly with with adult themes, the culmination of a radical cinephile lineage that would be absorbed and defused by the Movie Brats.<br />David Thompson is not interested in charting this decline.  His book is a straightforward account of the film's genesis, context, production and impact.  The film arose from Bertolucci's sessions with a psychanalyist, which probably accounts not only for the film's visual motifs, but the confessional monologues that litter it.  Bertolucci saw in 'Last Tango' a fusion - of American and European cinema; of formal mise-en-scene with verite and imporvisation, and Thompson sensitively draws out the film's tensions and contradictions.  He discusses the film's visual influences (in particular, the paintings of Francis Bacon and the French films of the 1930s), and the contributions of significant crew members to the film's texture.  His charting the story's development from Bertolucci's initial idea through financial considerations and crucial script changes and omissions to cuts made after the final premiere and the final release, not only shows us the adaptability and openness of Bertolucci's aesthetic, but also alerts us to the shifting nature of the film's meanings.  His synopsis of the film itself, and analysis of key scenes, figures, techniques and the interaction of the two plots, is enlightening.<br />The book concludes with essays on the three lead actors, Marlon Brando, Maria Schneider and Jean-Pierre Leaud.  Those on Brando and Leaud in particular show how Bertolucci conflated the actors' iconic image (Hollywood; French New Wave), and their real-life histories with their roles, making the film both more intellectually detached and emotionally engaging.  His chapter on Brando, on the personal traumas that fed into his characterisation, goes some way to illuminating the devastating power of his performance.  <br />Nevertheless, Thompson assumes that the reader knows 'Last Tango' is a classic, and so doesn't feel the need to defend it - his eliding the film's alleged misognyny is particularly troubling.  Bertolucci says that he undertook psychoanalysis for artistic reasons as a way of stimulating and provoking himself and his actors in the search for those 'secret places' of the mind.  It reminds me of the story about Dali who showed Freud a painting he thought revealed his unconscious: 'No, Salvador, that's a painting of what you consciously think is your unconscious'.  Doesn't the same problem bedevil 'Last Tango'?	2002-03-08
US	50178145	R2K4Q6LZHMCR73	0851706428	452749663	L'Age d'or (BFI Film Classics)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Enlightening and playful diegesis of a provocative classic.	When 'L'Age D'Or' was released in 1930, the few mainstream cinemas equipped with sound refused to show it.  Its exhibition in a small art-house sparked vicious vandalism from right-wing groups; under pressure from the Parisian Chief of Police, the film was withdrawn and remained unseen for 50 years except for poor pirate copies.  Raucously erotic, politically satirical and provocatively sacreligious, it is easy to see even today how this Surrealist masterpiece caused so much offence - laced with imagery sublimating onanism, famous scenes include the putrefaction of four bishops on a Mallorcan cliff-top; repeatedly frustrated erotic trysts; the gratuitous kicking of a dog and a blind war veteran; the cold-blooded shooting of a young boy by his father; a restaging of de Sade's infamous novel '120 Days of Sodom', with the murderous libertine Blangis played by Christ; and a crucifix nailed with women's scalps.<br />Paul Hammond's monograph is an indispensable gloss on this dense, allusive, but hilarious film.  Although imbued with a Surrealist aesthetic - with creative input from the movement; cameos by Max Ernst, Paul Eluard and Velentine Penrose; the visual influence of Magritte and the narrative disruptions of Peret - Hammond shows how 'L'Age D'or' fundamentally engages with Bunuel's love for Hollywood, in particular the slapstick of Keaton and Langdon, the social comedies of Lubitsch and Stroheim, and the amour fou melodramas of Borzage, which he reworked, burlesqued and homaged (Bunuel despised the 'avant-garde' or 'art' film).  He reinstates the important creative contribution of now-despised co-scenarist Salvador Dali, who provided many of the film's best gags and its running imagery, as well as its 'critical-paranoid' methodology - the pair's aim was to show 'reality's adjustment to the unconscious'.  He brilliantly traces the film's equally remarkable production, and how its crises shaped 'L'Age D'Or''s aesthetic (for instance, unusable footage led Bunuel to use stock scientific film for the famous opening 'documentary' scorpion sequence).  He explains the political, sexual and Freudian allusions scattered throughout, as well as the many in-jokes - much of the imagery is generated from word-play.  His recreation of the amazing cultural milieu of which the film was a part, a Parisian world of intense culture, politics, sexuality, friendship and comically bourgeois family problems.<br />Although his tracing of the film is linear, Hammond rejects systematic analysis in favour of a 'delire d'interpretation', picking up clues from the imagery, film-making or background and wending many fascinating and original interpretive avenues.  The reader should be warned however: Hammond assumes a lot of prior knowledge (you are expected to know who Peret and Brunius were, or what happened at the Saint-Pol-Roux dinner); while sentences such as the following are not uncommon: 'As well as functioning oneirically, 'L'Age D'Or' is a fine example of Shklovskian retardation'; 'In the end he toned down the galimatias, although the diegetic effect remains dyslexic'.  Best have a dictionary and google handy!	2002-03-04
US	50178145	R3TVM42X5AM88C	0802135617	438387410	The Real Inspector Hound and Other Plays	Books	5	23	25	N	N	The Game's a Foot.	In 'The Real Inspector Hound', neither the lampooning of the country-house murder-mystery warhorse, nor the digs at shallow and venal theatre critics, nor the use of Ionesco's dramatic anti-logic to warp the structure and language of the play, is particularly original or ambitious.  Two critics with their own personal and professional axes to grind sit in an auditorium mirroring 'us' while watching and commenting on a wretchedly cliched 'Mousetrap' rip-off; their desires and fears loop the play and they find themselves the main players.  What makes the play an eternal delight is the way Stoppard grounds the European ideas in a very English sensibility; the Wildean sparkle of the hackneyed dialogue; and the uproarious wit with which he turns straw targets into philosophical vortices.  More importantly, the spatial interplay between two temporally distinct narratives of 'reality' looks forward to the playwright's masterpiece 'Arcadia'.<br />'After Magritte' is a companion piece to 'Hound' - it too parodies crime stories, and it too features a detached critic (in this case a policeman, Inspector Foot, investigating a robbery) entering the world of the play (the crime).  The most visual of plays, its effects depending on elaborate Magritte-inspired tableaux, the piece is less enjoyable than 'Hound' to read, the involved stage directions halting the wit.  Conversely, it's the play in the volume one is most eager to see performed.  Stoppard puns on Magritte and Maigret: the domestic surrealism of the former and the burrowing detective logic of the latter seep into each other - the one is gridded by a logic that manages to interpret and connect the most disparate of enigmatic details; the latter is undermined by the same logic being mad and arbitary.  The very first image reveals a distorted family composition being spied on by a policeman, a perfect image of disruptive desire trammelled by the Law, or dream by reality; an opposition Stoppard reverses and breaks down withsome joyously bad puns.<br />'Dirty Linen' is comparatively straightforward, mixing mild political satire with bawdy farce.  A Select Committee of MPs convenes in the tower of Big Ben to investigate press allegations of widespread sexual immorality in the House of Commons, apparently centring on one particular young 'mystery woman'.  Coincidentally, the new clerk at the meeting, a ruthlessly ambitious young woman who goes through increasing states of undress during the play, seems to know her new employers rather well.  In making comedy out of government bureaucracy, 'Linen' anticipates the famous TV series 'Yes Minister', but is at its funniest when content with surprisingly traditional farce, which survives Stoppard's reversals - dirty old men, busty, scantily-clad young ladies, doubles entendres, puns, breakdowns and manipulations of language, exits, entrances, deceit and misunderstanding.<br />'New-found-land' is a play-within-'Dirty Linen', and is set in the same House of Commons committee room, now requistioned by two civil servants, one very old, the other his protege.  Both are ostensibly there to advise the Home Secretary on an application by an American for British citizenship (the plays were written for Stoppard's friend and collaborator Ed Berman, to celebrate his naturalisation), but soon diverts into two marvellous monologues - the elder Bernard remembering the day he won a bet with Lloyd-George; Arthur declaims a teeming, train travelogue of the United States.<br />'Dogg's Hamlet' plays like 'Just William' rewritten by Samuel Beckett with Anthony Burgess.  A group of schoolboys, their headmaster Dogg, and a workman called Easy, prepare the stage for the school prizegiving and a production of 'Hamlet'.  At this school, although they speak English, words have different meanings - e.g. 'Brick' means 'here', 'slab' becomes 'okay'.  Easy, who speaks 'our' English, is baffled and increasingly angered - when a phrase like 'Have you got the time please, sir?'translates into Dogg 'Cretinous pig-faced, git?' you can see the comic possibilities  (apparently Stoppard was inspired by a propositon of Wittgenstein's, and his play deals with serious issues such as the collective use of language, but 'Dogg's Hamlet' is much funnier than that old grump ever was).  The performance of 'Hamlet' itself - a four-hour play cut to an economical 15 minutes, with an even shorter encore, and comprised mostly of its famous, now cliched tags - is inspired.<br />'Cahoot's Macbeth' performs the same trick with the Scottish play.  It is dedicated to the Czech playwright and novelist Pavel Kahout, one of the signatories of Charta 77, banned by the Czech authorities from any cultural activities, and who held clandestine, abbreviated performances of Shakespeare with fellow blacklisted actors in friends' living room.  It is in one such living room that 'Cahoot's Macbeth' is set, the performance being interrupted by a sarcastic police Inspector.  Easy makes a reappearance, and the play disintegrates into Dogg, baffling the policeman, and, bringing this collection full-circle, erasing the line betwen stqge and audience.  Though a political play, Stoppard mostly avoids didacticism, substituting platitudes with an astonishing, exhilerating verbal collapse, with Shakespeare both subverted and vindicated, the vibrancy and pliability of language affirmed against the deadly 'normalisation' of totalitarian regimes.  At one point, the Inspector warns 'Words can be your friend or your enemy, depending on who's throwing the book, so watch your language', a proposition Stoppard dances with great gusto across this fabulous collection.	2002-02-25
US	50178145	R1OO3ZISW37N1S	0571212468	990500504	The Shape of Things	Books	3	15	19	N	N	Old forms in bright new clothes.	Adam is an amiable and literate loser and virtual virgin who needs two jobs to pay for his student loans.  Working as a security guard at a gallery, he tries to dissuade Evelyn, an Art postgraduate, from defacing one of the exhibits, and ends up going out with her.  Not only does he start enjoying 'great' sex for the first time, but, under Evelyn's supervision, he begins eating and dressing better, working out, even getting a nose job, to the point where the former scruffy prole becomes what his best friend's fiancee calls a 'babe'.  Adam had been too shy to ask the latter out before, but now they kiss and go for a 'drive' in the 'woods'.  Meanwhile Evelyn has her thesis showcase to organise.<br />For all its appeals to modernity and student culture - post-modern art; makeovers; facial surgery; college; swearing; studenty soundtrack - 'The Shape Of Things' is surprisingly traditional fare, not too removed from the well-made plays of Terence Rattigan, or Shaw's dramas of ideas (Evelyn becomes Higgins to Adam's Eliza Doolittle), in which every element and loose end is neatly tied up.  Each character represents a particular point-of-view (check out, for a start, those names), which is modified or developed as the thesis continues - each vignette proceeds intellectually, leading to a climax in which the leads declaim their positions at wordy length.  This means that the character interplay, though present and involving, lacks the true forcefulness of a work like 'Your Friends And Neighbours'.  <br />Behind the players are projected images from Western civilisation's visual treatment of the human body, from antiquity to anatomy to Magritte.  This might seem to be pretentious padding, an attempt to add spurious depth to what is basically a sour college romance, but it actually works with the drama to achieve the devastating pay-off of The Revelation.<br />To be honest, Labute's ideas - about the impoverishment of post-modern art; the consequences of 'art for art's sake',or the crossing the line between life and art; about a culture that privileges image over decency, self-consciousness over relationships; the dangers of 'too much' civilisation or sophistication; the alienation (oh yes) of one's life as it is mediated by life, art and the media - aren't very original, though paradoxical enough to avoid seeming static.  What is more enjoyable is the way the famous male monstrosity that characterised Labute's earlier work (e.g. 'In The Company Of Men'), has been transferred to a female character, whose spectacular callousness has you cheering her on in spite of yourself, and chills the post-'Nurse Betty' sentimental streak the playwright has difficulty in suppressing.  The dialogue is as sharp, suggestive and funny as ever, with a great line about Picasso.  And, yes, it's nice to see people like me on a stage for once.	2002-02-22
US	50178145	R2Z4IJPRIH3EOZ	0851703623	700790907	Brief Encounter (BFI Film Classics)	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Homage and critique powered by intelligence and love.	'Brief Encounter' is both celebrated and despised as THE British film par excellence.  The story of a short liaison that never gets beyond boat-rides in the park and a ham-fisted rendezvous in a friend's flat, the containment of transgressive emotions within a stiff-upper-lip sensibility is seen as quintessentially British.  The film is also a major example of what is known as the 'woman's picture', one whose address (its story, mood, feeling, allusions, assumptions) is primarily to women.<br />It is both these received opinions Richard Dyer, Britain's finest academic writer on film, wishes to investigate, using, as he says, the heroine's own method in telling her story, adapting his in the light of personal experience and knowledge from others.  The film's status as a woman's picture is ambiguous - the story is told by a woman (in other words, she has narrative authority), and coloured by her sensibility and the habits of her cultural consumption (the books she reads and films she sees); on the other hand, her internalised confession cannot find voice within the male-dominated world of the film.  In any case, this 'woman's picture' was written, directed and made by men.  Dyer, with great sensitvity, explores the many ways in which 'Encounter' offered women a space to articulate their own inner lives and social positions, as well as asserting the claims of patriarchy on them.<br />The film's 'Britishness' is even more problematic.  'Encounter' was not a mass success, and its image of 'Britain' - English, middle-class, middlebrow, white - is very narrow and hardly representative of the major differences within one class, never mind the different classes, races and worldviews that constituted Britain even in 1946.  Dyer show how the couple's limiting their own desire is echoed in the way the film's middle-class whiteness insists on distancing itself from the social and racial Other.  Nevertheless, he argues: 'A nation's characteristic culture may on inspection usuallybe a narrow and class-specific one, but it is nonetheless what passes for the national culture'.  He also discusses the ambiguous importance of 'Encounter' for gay audiences, as both a means of camp resistance to the dominant culture (by mocking what seems to be 'quintessentially British', and implicity exclusive), but also (as written by gay playwright Noel Coward), a displaced narrative of 'forbidden love' kept in the closet.<br />Unfashionably, Dyer examines 'Encounter' textually, as if the film was a unified artefact that arrived fully formed out of nowhere.  He is not very interested in the production process, the economic pressures on aesthetic choices, or the individual contributions of personnel (with the exception of lead actress, Celia Johnson).  More fashionably, he downplays the film's 'auteur' credentials, not considering writer-producer Coward at all.  The most brilliant section of the book is an analysis of the opening scene, showing us how, through camera movement and composition, director David Lean economically, even poetically sets up the film's characters and themes.  More of this would have been very welcome.  Still, this is a marvellous book, full of Dyer's usual generosity, lucidity and circumspection - he relates other points of view or interpretations with great fairness and precision (how very English!), before offering his own - most academics set up other writers just to knock them down.  He proves that detached intellectual engagement with this brilliant film does not preclude profound emotional investment.	2002-02-18
US	50178145	R2LTLWFY1YODVQ	0192837087	884652625	Letters Concerning the English Nation (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	3	14	17	N	N	For those who can take A LOT of Voltaire.	Before this 1994 Oxford University Press Edition, ENGLISH-language Readers of Voltaire's famous Book had to make do with Translations from the FRENCH 'Lettres Philosophiques'.  Voltaire, however, began writing the Book during his two and a half year stay in ENGLAND, and wrote over half the Letters in ENGLISH.  This first critical Edition of the 'Letters' in ENGLISH (the remaining eight Letters are presented in contemporary Translation) are immediately more fresh, more witty, more pointed, more fluid, more Voltairean, than the pallid Translations of other Editions on offer, and, with their characteristic 18th century Spelling (e.g. today's words ending in 'c' ending in 'k', like 'Publick') and Orthography (Nouns capitalised, proper Nouns italicised), give one the pleasurable Feeling of reading a Contemporary of Swift's or Pope's.<br />Anyone hoping for a Bill Bryson-like Travelogue into the Manners and distinctive Details of the ENGLISH, or a FRENCH 'Gulliver's Travels', will be disappointed.  The 'Letters' are a Travelogue of Enlightenment Ideas, and can be divided into three Sections - Religion (Voltaire celebrating the Tolerance of many Religions in ENGLAND compared to the Catholic Tyranny in FRANCE); Philosophy/Science (offering a breathless Digest of exciting new Theories and Discoveries by Locke and Newton), and Literature (decrying the barbarous Irregularities of English theatre compared to the coolly classical French, but praising the occasional poetic Vividness and greater dramatic Force of Shakespeare - how nice of him!).  Voltaire often distorts political Conditions in ENGLAND (e.g. the economic Persecution of Catholics) to extol the Country as a Beacon of Liberty.<br />Although Voltaire writes ENGLISH very well (considering he had only begun learning it the Year before commencing the 'Letters'), his Language lacks the satiric Bite and linguistic Inventiveness of a Swift or Gay, and so feels comparitively thin.  Although there is a complex Irony working throughout, with the 'I' of the fictional Letter-Writer shifting functions (satirical, explanatory etc.) depending on the Subject, the most enjoyable Parts are those most straightforwardly polemical, such as the Attack on Reactionaries hostile to the Growth of Science, or the refreshingly irreverant Approach to the Bard.<br />How you enjoy these Letters depends on how much Voltaire you can take.  His brave Attacks on Intolerance, Fanaticism and Absolutism can never be forgotten, and his Advocacy of the actively Intellectual over the submissively Superstitious was crucial in developing the modern Era; but his relentless Promotion of Reason can itself appear intolerant, shortsighted and incapable of dealing with more inexplicable Mysteries.  He mocks the Ancients' philosophical and scientific Errors, asserting the linear Progress of History and human Endeavour, assuming, as did those ancients, that his Age has got everything right.  The 25th Letter exposes the limits and inflexibility of Voltaire - taking uncontextualised Excerpts from Pascal's 'Pensees', he attempts to demolish the Jansenist's Christian Logic, but only exposes himself as a poor Reader forever closed to true Mystery, Poetry and Complexity.<br />This critical Edition includes a valuable Introduction detailing Voltaire's Experiences in England, contextualising the Letters and proving the Importance on his artistic Development of the Writer's Contact with the ENGLISH Language.  An interesting Textual Note explains the Genesis of the Work, and the Status of the various national Editions.  Appendices include a long Excerpt from Voltaire's Essay (in ENGLISH) on Milton, and a biographical Appreciation by Goldsmith.  The Apparatus is somewhat let down by the Notes.  Because this Edition is considered a primary Text, rather than a Translation, Cronk assumes the reader to be a Student in FRENCH Literature, and neglects to translate Quotations on occasion, or to identify unfamiliar (to this Reader, anyway) Personnages.nnages.	2002-02-15
US	50178145	R31GPQGBS9KY0V	0851707238	306683353	Seven (BFI Film Classics)	Books	5	10	20	N	N	First-rate study of a second-rate film.	If, as I have suggested, the most successful in the BFI Classics and Modern Classics series are those written by critics and academics, than the very best are those by teachers.  I would recommend Richard Dyer's brilliant monograph not just to admirers of David Fincher's celebrated film, but to anyone interested in getting the most out of their film-viewing.  With facility and clarity, Dyer describes the mechanics of film-making - editing, sound-design and music, script, casting choices and performance style, camera movements and narrative pace, cinematography, mise-en-scene and imagery, location - and shows how they are all used to create meaning in 'Se7en'.<br />Dyer calls 'Se7en' 'a landscape of despair, a symphony of sin', a film 'extraordinarily un-American in its pessimism'.  Appropriately dividing his study into 7 sibilantly-titled chapters, he examines it from an exhaustive number of angles.  'Se7en' is an archetypal serial killer movie that focuses on white male alienation in contemporary urban society, but is also a denial of the genre, refusing to demonise the murderer, suggesting he is simply an over-enthusiastic law-enforcer with the same attitude to the corruption of modern urban life as the policemen.  Dyer shows how, through dialogue, script-structure and editing, the killer is connected to both detectives pursuing him.  He shows how Andrew Kevin Walker's brilliantly constructed script both imposes order on unmanagable violence and despair, and denies it (I can't say how just in case you haven't seen the film).  He examines the notion of 'sin' in a post-modern, post-religious world, with the minimal possibilities of salvation - religion, culture, human goodness - offered.  He is particularly good on his own areas of expertise - star personae, race and sexuality.<br />Dyer thinks 'Se7en' is a Great Movie that does what Art should, exagerrating or heightening negative feelings about the world we live in that we suppress daily to survive.  He treats 'Se7en' so seriously he even includes a 'map' to the narrative like those you get with Dante's 'Divine Comedy', and compares its climactic power to 'King Lear'.  But for all his tireless analysis of the film, Dyer simply reinforces what it says on the surface.  There is no subtext - every element, from script to theme to technical cinematic realisation simply reflects what we see, the direction dutifully and literally realising the script.  Surely a classic film is one open to alternative interpretations, one that can be read against the grain, opening up a space for different kinds of viewing or viewers, one that on each re-viewing will reveal something new, deepening or complicating our first impressions?  Nothing Dyer writes with such eloquence or enthusiasm convinces me that 'Se7en' is such a film.	2002-02-01
US	50178145	R1BCJ16JKVC76J	0156551578	80646367	Maigret and the Yellow Dog	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Archetypal early Maigret.	If I was to initiate anyone into the world of Superintendant Jules Maigret, 1931's 'The Yellow Dog' (a.k.a. 'Face for a Clue') is the book I would recommend.  The story is set in the Breton harbour town of Concarneau, and begins with the non-fatal shooting of a prominent citizen one stormy night.  His friends, card-playing regulars in the Admiral Hotel cafe, fear they will be next, and sure enough strychnine is soon found in their pernods.  Escalating fear in the town is accompanied by a mysterious giant's footsteps and a yellow dog always present at the crime scenes.  The Mayor who has sent for Maigret becomes exasperated when the policeman seems casually indifferent to the case, allowing further crimes to occur.<br />'Yellow Dog' is model Maigret for a number of reasons.  It crystallises the Maigret detective method, rejecting Holmesian deduction or modish scientific procedures, the Inspector preferring to silently absorb the atmosphere of a place, the charactetrs and faces of its people.  The progress Maigret makes with this infinite patience he keeps to himself, exasperating superiors, colleagues, citizens, even the reader.  In these books, crime isn't static, a thing of the past to be frozen and endlessly analysed, as in Agatha Christie et al, but a fluid, ongoing part of the social fabric.  The book introduces the young Inspector Leroy, who, throughout the series will become Maigret's most trusted ally.  The narrative plays variations on Simenon's favourite themes, most especially the different levels of vice and transgression in French communities, hypocritically categorised by class.  His charting the development of public fear into the violence of mob panic is terrifying and prescient.<br />But 'Yellow Dog' is especially notable for the clarity of what one might term Simenon's tripartite characterisation.  First of all, there are the actual human characters, whom Maigret observes, and generously allows the freedom to reveal or hang themselves in their own words, waiting for them to play their petty charades and deceits, before breaking down to the truth.  Though Simenon can be sentimental, on the whole, they are not a pretty bunch.  Secondly, the meticulous evocation of place, with the vivid description of the harbour; the town divided into the Old, with its ancient, narrow, winding streets, and New, with its markets, gaudy hotels and the ever-recurring clock; the dingy tavern with its oppressive, aquarium-like windows; the persistant presence of dirt and trash, visible emblems of barely concealed social rottenness.  And thirdly, the presence of the weather, mostly dark, windswept, beating rain, but breaking into festive plays of light.  The story begins with a brilliantly atmospheric, cinematic panorama of the empty town in which the crime is almost incidental; the most forceful set-piece is literally cinematic, as Maigret and Leroy shiver on a roof, spectators looking down through a window-'screen' at a silent lovers' drama they can only partly comprehend.	2002-02-01
US	50178145	R3D6GCWZ4PD395	0851703003	788512351	The Wizard of Oz (BFI Film Classics)	Books	4	9	10	N	N	A lovable companion to take with you to 'Oz'.	'The Wizard of Oz' is a miraculous rarity in the history of cinema.  It is an intricately structured work, whose themes, images, narratives and characters echo and refract each other across its story.  Surely for this to be possible, we would expect the over-arching organising sensibility of a Great Auteur, a Hitchcock or a Hawks.  But 'Oz' has none - neither the writer of the source novel, L. Frank Baum; nor the many scriptwriters usually at each others' throats; nor the producers Mervyn Leroy or Arthur Freed; not the directors, credited and uncredited, can claim the honour of solely creating this masterpiece.  Out of a series of accidents came a near-perfect work, just as out of the Big Bang, the intricacy of living organimsms, 'simply happened'.  As Salman Rushdie remarks, 'Oz' is 'an authorless text'.<br />Rushdie's many insights into this film - which is so far beyond labels such as 'great' or 'art' or 'important' that it has shaped the cultural consciousness of audiences the world over for decades - are more literary than cinematic.  After a charming introduction, in which the for-its-time-spectacular-and-fantastic 'Oz' is considered quite routine for a child who grew up with the excesses of Bollywood, he sits down at the TV with a notebook in hand, throwing out ideas and interpretations as he goes along.  His main idea is that, in spite of the sell-out ending (as he perceives it), the film's message is not 'there's no place like home', but that once you undertake the kind of journey Dorothy makes, you can never go back, you must make your own homes, your own destiny (Rushdie, in hiding from the Ayotollah and his fatwa when the book was written, remakes Dorothy in his migrating image).  The film up to this point has been so radical and liberating, that Rushdie sees the ending as the usual Hollywood moralising.<br />I've always thought that if your theory has to reject some of the text, than it's not much of a theory; but Rushdie is persuasive.  His descriptionof monochrome Kansas as hell-on-earth; his account of Dorothy's growth and the wonder of colourful Oz; his charting the rites-of-passage that reveals to Dorothy the inadequacy of adults; are intelligent and witty.  His reverie on the fate of movie stand-ins, the audience's relationship to stars and film, and on the conflict between the idealism of a film and the reality of its making; is beautifully, philosophicallly moving.  His singling out genius wordsmith Yip Harburg and that unforgettble witch Margaret Hamilton, is generous.  <br />On the downside, his short-sighted cavilling over inconsistencies sees him miss the point on a few occassions; and the appendix, a short story 'At the Auction of the Ruby slippers', which with laboured and long-winded 'humour' fails to ape the post-modern, culture-conscious fantasy of Angela Carter (to whom the mongraph is dedicated), is unreadable.	2002-01-28
US	50178145	R94P4OEDZ1ACO	1859182909	120049688	December Bride (Ireland into Film)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Study of how a book became a film, full of modish theory.	Although it doesn't proclaim itself as such, Lance Pettit's study of the Thaddeus O'Sullivan film 'December Bride' is the perfect text for teachers and lecturers of cinema.  Using the film as a starting point, it deals with such topics as cinematic adaptations of literature; the concepts of national and independent cinema; the funding and marketing of non-Hollywood films; and the collaborative process involved in making films and the validity of the auteur process.  Pettit employs (very selectively) various theoretical frameworks, from Barthesian structuralism to feminism to new-historicism to post-colonialism, and the film becomes an extended case study with which to test them.  <br />The book is part of the 'Ireland into Film' series, which seeks to examine representations of the auld sod in the cinema.  With syllogistic predictability, Chapter 1 deals with Sam Hanna Bell's source novel (a background to Irish history as context for book and film; Bell as an Ulster Protestant, as a regional writer, as a Scottish emigre, as a socialist hostile to the bellicose Orange bluster hijacking Protestant identity; his efforts as both writer and broadcaster to record the culturally marginalised Protestant ways of life; the novel's importance as a way of understanding and revealing Protestant experience); Chapter 2 charts the film's production process, from turning the novel into a script to acquiring finance (potted histories of the director and screenwriter (playwright David Rudkin); a valuable discussion of the process of literary adaptation; the importance of creating a sense of the landscape, consciously avoiding the banal trouist-trap romanticism of most films about Ireland); Chapter 3 analyses the film itself (the ommissions from and compressions of the novel, and the making 'radical' its apparently less progressive elements; a look at key scenes; the thematic and aesthetic influence of European directors (Varda, Truffaut, Axel, Dreyer, Bergman), employed to avoid the cliches of Irish, British and American cinema).<br />Throughout, Pettit is eager to show that literary adaptations in film are not necessarily diminutions; he concludes that the film is a 'creative commentary' on the novel, an 'echo', a remembrance of reading it, all located in its own 'historical moment' of the late 1980s.  He sees its creative and commerical heterogeneity - a novel by a Scotsman, made by two Irishmen living in England with British money and European personnel, marketed as a 'European' art-film, but concerned very much with Irish themes - as a way of breaking and critiquing tired old images and conceptions of what it is to 'be' Irish (this apparently bothers some people).  The menage a trois at the centre of the film is turned into a metaphor for Northern Ireland, squeezed between the attentions of Ireland and England.  <br />This is all very well, and the book is informative enough.  But its reliance on hoary old, half-digested 'frameworks'; its recourse to jargon, buzzwords and critical inanities; its often clumsy style and lack of any real empathetic passion for the cinema; its preference for the politically correct over the aesthetically inspired (works that fit the theory rather than those that resist it) is all very dispiriting.	2002-01-21
US	50178145	RX7G6DX7BD5TB	0151555575	969434488	Maigret on the Defensive (English and French Edition)	Books	4	14	15	N	N	The unthinkable - Maigret accused of horrible wrong-doing.	A more accurate translation of the original might be 'Maigret defends himself', and in this late, autumnal Simenon, we find a hero three years away from retirement, a man who should be lounging on the laurels of a remarkably successful career, accused of getting the orphaned teenage niece of an important state official drunk and taking her to a cheap hotel.  There is no real mystery or ambiguity in such a scenario - the idea of a lecherous Maigret is about as plausible as Sherlock Holmes in a Santa suit.  As ever with Simenon, the interest is psychological, and Maigret's near-breakdown is superbly conveyed, in the fragmented and delayed way the accusation is given to the reader, disorienting us as much as the detective; and in the way Maigret looks at the world, the interrogator now interrogted, decades of integrity and achievement counting for nothing.  There is a brilliant scene after Maigret has been condescendingly accused by an upstart Chief Commissioner in a large, unfamiliar, anonymous office; the sense of literal and spiritual depletion he feels in this silent, cavernous building opens out onto the heightened colour and noise of the streets as he leaves.<br />'Defensive' is a classic study of middle-age; of the generational conflicts that take place in any large organisation, when the old methods are despised by arrogant young bucks; of the touching, unspoken, nearly-sentimental companionship of trusted old (male) colleagues; of the moral ambiguity of a law-enforcement so dependent on informers; of Paris in broiling summer, devoid of inane romanticism.  The most endearing thing about Maigret, alone among the great detectives, is his serene, bourgeois domesticsity, and the moral support given by the wonderful Mme. Maigret may not win many feminist admirers, but is touching nonetheless.  A lesser writer might have contrasted this normality with the vicious sexuality that poisons the world outside, and nearly destroys the Superintendent, but both Simenon and Maigret are defined by their tolerance and understanding.  Mystery-wise, 'Defensive' seems as slack and shambling as a middle-aged inebriate, and hopelessly old-fashioned for 1964; it is actually as rigorously constructed and thematically thoughtful as we expect from this great writer.	2002-01-17
US	50178145	R2O3UTNPCDAJRQ	0856400610	130771402	December Bride	Books	4	14	14	N	N	A Northern Irish classic of love, lust, loathing + the land.	'December Bride' begins grimly with a wedding between two middle-aged farmfolk in an empty church.  Outside, a curious band of onlookers lurk in the cemetary.  In this opening sequence, the novel's Big Themes are set up - The Land, Family, Death, Religion, Community.  Bell than switches back a quarter of a century to chart how this scanario came to be.  Andrew Echlin, benevolent patriarch of a large lake-side farmstead in turn-of-the-20th-century Northern Ireland, widower father of two sons (silent Hamilton and impetuous Frank), hires labouring tenant Martha Gomartin and her 30-year-old daughter Sarah as domestic servants.  After Andrew's death in a boating accident, both men enjoy Sarah's favours, producing a baby of uncertain parentage.  Despite the ineffectual efforts of a disapproving clergy, and the scandalised hostility of the community, Sarah refuses to marry either brother, and effectively takes over the running of the household.  This menage-a-trois is seen as a direct affront to Puritan Protestant Ulster values; as minister Sorleyson muses: 'One had obligations to one's fellow-men.  Of what avail was virtue if lust and irresponsibility were to be crowned with contentment?'<br />Bell uses as an epigraph a verse by Thomas Hardy, and it is to the latter's novels that 'Bride' bears most resemblance, with its focus on austere agricultural life, on the influence of the weather and the land on characters, on the confict between the eternal cycle of the seasons and the brutal transience of individual lives.  Dialect (in this case Ulster-Scots) is richly employed, both in dialogue and in the detailed descriptons of farming life; the transgressive behaviour of individuals and families are contrasted with the norms of the wider community.  As in Hardy, Bell favours dramatic set-pieces, often self-contained; he is also alert to the shifting emotions and contradictions of characters.  Although the book's pleasures pertain to the 19th century novel, the writing is tauter; 'Bride' is ultimately not as relentlessly bleak or fatalistic as Hardy, despite that opening scene, the brooding or portentous atmosphere of many sequences, and the shattering violence or accidents that break out.<br />'Bride' is a canonical text in Irish literature, looked at for insight into the bitter history of Northern Ireland and the 'Ulster mentality', with the Troubles breaking out less then two decades after its publication (1951).  And it is true that the tensions between Protestants and Catholics are a feature, that the issue of land and its control is crucial, that events seem to take place around important historical dates.  But to reduce this novel to its academia-friendly bones not only misses the subversive, non-nationalist narrative of a servant girl and her disruptive sexuality taking control of a powerful farmstead, but also minimises Bell's gifts as a novelist, his psychological acuity, the visual and verbal poetry of his scene-setting, and the power of extended sequences, such as that of a near-senile widower lost in the crowded Belfast streets with his beloved dog.	2002-01-12
US	50178145	RPQ1DFXXSH45P	0140433872	988756274	The Soul of Man Under Socialism and Selected Critical Prose (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	37	45	N	N	The only book you need ever own.	It may seem wilful to lead a selection of Oscar Wilde's major critical prose with an essay on left-wing politics, but 'The Soul of Man under Socialism' is more concerned with aesthetics than ethics: Wilde found socialism 'beautiful' because it encouraged freedom and individualism, freeing man to develop his emotional and imaginative lives.  Wilde's Utopian scheme, as he admits, is gloriously impractical and contrary to human nature, but that's the point - it's because reforms are based on what is considered practical, rather than what might be possible or even unthinkable, that inequality and suffering persist.  His vision of a future in which men dream and absorb Art as vaguely-imagined machines do all the menial work, reads like a delightful lampoon of HG Wells.  Favourite Quotation: 'the moment that an artist takes notice of what other people want and tries to supply the demand, he ceases to be an artist and becomes a dull or amusing craftsman, an honest or dishonest tradesman'). <br />The selection begins with examples of Wilde the professional reviewer at work, attending art lectures by Whistler, reading books by Pater and Swinburne, drawing attention to poetry anthologies by labouring socialists, praising an actress's memoirs.  Some of the pieces are more theoretical, arguing, for instance, the importance and legacy of actors as critics of great theatre.  Each article presents difficult and often radical ideas in an accessible and witty manner.  FQ: 'where there is no exagerration there is no love, and where there is no love there is no understanding'.<br />'The Portrait of Mr. W.H.' (printed here in its extended 1889 revision) is quite simply one of the greatest achievements in the world literature of short fiction.  'Short story' doesn't begin to describe this work about a young scholar who commits suicide after being caught forging evidence to 'prove' a theory claiming that Shakespeare dedicated his Sonnets to a young actor-lover.  'Portrait' is mostly a dazzling exercise in critical play, but it is also a touching gay fantasy, a Nabokovian study of mad academics, a defence of 'forgery' as an aesthetic mode, a literary detective story, a history of the Elizabethan stage, an anthology of Elizabethan gossip, a Borgesian metaphysical puzzle and so much more.  FQ: 'he always set an absurdly high value on personal appearance, and once read a paper before our Debating Society to prove that it was better to be good-looking than to be good'.<br />'In Defence of Dorian Gray' collects letters written by Wilde to hostile newspapers that branded his only novel immoral, decadent and demanded its interdiction.  While it's depressing to see our hero stoop to these tedious non-entities, we must remember the dangerous influence of the reactionary press, and at least the letters make galvanising reading, helping Wilde formulate ideas that would shape the novel's famous 'All art is quite useless' preface.  FQ: 'Good people exasperate one's reason; bad people stir one's imagination'.<br />But the major achievement here is the four-part collection 'Intentions', a still explosive series of critical dialogues, memoirs and essays which are only 'safe' today because they are labelled 'classic' - if anyone actually absorbed these radical, liberating pieces, with their provocative, teasing, shifting, playful, ironic, contradictory, unsystematic, aphoristic, hilarious assertions on Art, Beauty, Life, Philosophy, Morality, Ethics, Crime etc., the whole world would implode, or at least irrevocably change.  'The Decay of Lying' demolishes the depressing modes of realism and naturalism and the tyranny of facts; 'Pen, Pencil and Poison' is a portrait of Wainewright the Poisoner, Wilde discussing his crimes with the same aesthetic detachment as he does his art and writing; ''The Critic as Artist' is his masterpiece, a credo and a gauntlet; 'The Truth of Masks' is an essay on the importance of costume and historical accuracy when staging Shakespeare, and seems to contradict eveything else in the volume, with Wilde winningly admitting, 'Not that I agree with everything I have said in this essay'.  FQ: 'The truth of metaphysics are the truth of masks'.<br />There are (at least) two Wildes in this volume; one whose address is utterly contemporary and congenial, intellectually curious, blasting all that is deadening, hypocritical and humbug, an alien in his own time.  The other is startlingly Victorian, passionately engaged with elitist subjects that have little importance or (ugh) 'relevance' today (Classical literature, Aesthetics, the importance of form etc.), couching his theories in language that is often ornate, oritund, exotic, even verbose, a lush challenge to his fusty, pedantic peers.  <br />Linda Dowling's introduction rescues Wilde from his earnest post-modern apologists and returns him fruitfully to his original context, the Oxford debates about 'Art for Art's sake' and the function of poetry and criticism,.  Her copious notes are a blessing and necessity, as well as recreating a strange, wonderful, intellectually audacious cultural world, one that shames our depleted, dead-end, theory-strangulated, accept-anything age.  I know you've heard this before, but this time it's true: BUY THIS BOOK AND LET IT CHANGE YOUR LIFE.	2002-01-10
US	50178145	R1SG2LKNH5RAD6	0891900918	504685403	Extraordinary Adventures of Arsene Lupin: Gentleman Burglar	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Arsene Lupin - robs the rich and gives to the reader.	Published in 1907, Maurice leBlanc's book introduces Arsene Lupin, the gentleman burglar: thief of exquisite country houses; master of disguise; friend to the royal and rich; a man of impeccable taste who will only snatch items of 'artistic value', and from those who can afford it. His wit, style and daring make him the unquestioned hero of the book, easily out-dazzling his two detective rivals, the plodding Ganimard and the brilliant logician Herlock Sholmes. Safes, secret passages, jewels, high windows, impenetrable castles, 'impossible' prison breakouts, sensational coutroom dramas, romances on luxury cruises, nocturnal murders, chases through forests and empty streets - so many crimes and incidents and personae proliferate, Lupin seems to become omnipotent.<br />Although these nine loosely-connected mysteries are pure fantasy, their detail and context open out the Belle Epoque milieu in which they are set. One of the major themes is that the 'respectable' bourgoisie Lupin robs are often as dishonest and even criminal as he, indulging in the illegal speculations/swindles rife at the time or organising elaborate charades to conceal financial decline. The invidiousness of social inequality is a factor in Lupin's psychological make-up. The antiquity of French history and national character is in conflict with the disruption of modernity (telephones, photographs, automobiles etc.). The vulnerability of the bourgeoisie contrasts with a democratising popular press avidly chronicling Lupin's every move, making him 'our national thief'.<br />I don't want to get too solemn, such is the breezy pleasure of this book, but I believe 'Lupin' is more than simply an engaging riposte to Sherlock Holmes; Lupin is more than someone who pilfers from the rich. Whereas most crime literature seeks to re-order a violated society through a central, reliable, narrational consciousness embodied in the figure of the detective, 'Lupin' disrupts order at every opportunity. Lupin's facility with disguise is matched by his disruptions of the text, which changes narrator and point-of-view without warning, Lupin himself often betraying the reader's trust by assuming the first-person on false pretences. With wit, playfulness and a light touch, leBlanc undermines our certainties as readers, just as Lupin does his victims, filling each tale with alternative narratives, jarring tones, shifting modes, unfulfilled expectations. Lupin is always taking his bow, leaving the stage and slipping away, as terrified by his own lack of a recognisable identity as he terrifies everyone else. For omnipotence and fame come at a price - existential dread and sexual impotence: the penetration of homes and homosocial company must substitute for failed relationships with women.	2002-01-10
US	50178145	R3GKE4TN59AQEA	0851705596	945122476	Blue Velvet (BFI Modern Classics)	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Suggestive study of an endlessly fascinating masterwork.	In the decade and a half between his pioneering 'Blue Velvet' and recent renaissance with 'Mulholland Drive', David Lynch's reputation had seriously plummeted, his name a synonym for kitschy, affectless weirdness.  It's good to be reminded what a major filmmaker he could be, and Michael Atkinson claims 'Velvet' as the most important and influential film of the 80s.  Although the film deals with areas of human behaviour, psychology and sexuality we'd prefer not to think about, and is full of reeling violence and disorienting cinematic procedures, Atkinson argues that Lynch is ultimately a conservative artist, affirming a childlike, pre-Oedipal innocence by vividly portraying its dark, disjunctive opposite.  <br />This thesis is arguable to say the least, and Atkinson himself isn't always very convinced by it.  Using a loose psychoanalytic framework, he discusses 'Velvet' as a psychodrama, a narrative unleashing of the Id, with Jeffrey as a kind of Alice or fairy-tale figure undergoing the harrowing, identity-threatening psychic journey to maturity.  You may disagree with Atkinson's wider conclusions, but his attentive, close reading of the film pays justice to its full, ambiguous complexity, singling out Lynch's idiosyncratic use of colour, composition and the widescreen frame; his manipulation of physical space in psychic space; the equal importance of his 'aural design' to his visuals; his unexpected sensitivity to class and gender politics; his use of performance (Atkinson brilliantly recuperates the famously vicious Frank (Dennis Hopper)).  Each passing insight adds layers to the film's suggestibility, without ever hoping to tie it up, so bound up is Lynch's aesthetic to his own impenetrable demons.  <br />Atkinson has an annoying habit of repeating alienating buzzwords like 'interface' and 'topoi', where clearer words will do; his contention that 'Velvet' is a 'pure' movie, untainted by cinema history, is simply wrong (Douglas Sirk and Hitchcock's 'Vertigo' areobvious precedents for a start), and his interpretation of Lynch's Dennis Potter-like use of song is way off the mark.  But if you want to tease out some of the stranger mysteries of Lynch's beautiful and enigmatic film, this is the book to get.	2002-01-09
US	50178145	R3T5LCGN7WG7AF	0851705014	746962274	Meet Me in St. Louis (BFI Film Classics)	Books	2	21	25	N	N	Lovers of Minnelli, Judy and this film: look elsewhere.	Rarely has a book made me so HOT with ANGER.  Gerald Kaufman's monograph on Vincente Minnelli's extraordinary 1944 musical purports to be a celebration of a great film and its multi-talented director.  Not so.  Despite proving a lifelong familiarity with Minnelli's work, despite his intimate knowledge of Minnelli's idiosyncratic style, his mastery of decor, camerawork and choreography, Kaufman can still write: 'I never deluded myself that he was a great director, up in the pantheon with Eisenstein and Renoir'.  And why, may we ask, does Minnelli merit less regard than a Stalinist stooge?  'Minnelli was not a great director because he had nothing to say'.  WHAT???!!  Kaufman either believes this, and so shouldn't be writing this book; or he doesn't, but has an inferiority complex about the relative cultural worth of the musical, and definitely shouldn't be writing it.  I don't know what he expects his cinema to 'say' - presumbably deal with heavyweight subjects such as social deprivation, war crimes or factory life.  When it comes to movies 'saying' anything, I'm with Sam Goldwyn; 'If you have a message, use Western Union'.  <br />Minnelli's style - which Kaufman recognises but misunderstands, characterising it as 'ostentatious' and 'glossy' - is so meticulously orchestrated because it expresses the characters' inner lives, their joys, dreams, desires, fantasies, fears (Minnelli himself said his mises-en-scenes were purposely designed to invade the unconscious of the audience, which Kaufman notes but doesn't seem to understand).  He accuses the film of feel-good escapism, excising any of the less utopian aspects of the source material.  But it is in Minnelli's style that these repressed elements are visualised.  Kaufman doesn't seem to have read Thomas Elsaesser's or Geoffrey Nowell-Smith's pioneering articles on Minnelli's use of melodrama, the way he used his style of 'excess' (of colour, decor, music etc.) to give expression to those darker elements euphemised inthe scripts.  How can a film, even one glowing with cheer as 'Meet Me in St. Louis', with the terrifying Hallowe'en sequence, in which a young girl in a happy family spies on a chilly, loveless marriage; with repeated references to death and the possibilities of sexual unfulfilment; with its undermining the security of unchanging family life with the intrusions of modernity; with its father who must repress his professional (in a sense, 'creative') capabilities; how can such a film be called simply 'feel-good', untrue to life?  As Oscar Wilde suggested: 'behind the perfection of a man's style, must lie the passion of a man's soul'.  Minnelli's soul BURNS.<br />Kaufman's wilful blindness is of a piece with the whole book.  He deliberately misinterprets the auteur theory, before going on to prove it by noting the continuities throughout Minnelli's career, despite working in different genres and as a director-for-hire.  He fails to recognise 'A Star Is Born' as one of the most overpowering experiences in cinema (sacrilege!!).  There is a distastefully censorious tone in his account of Judy Garland's 'erratic behaviour' on set, like a disapproving headmaster correcting an errant schoolgirl, failing to note the minor fact that MGM had pumped her full of drugs since she was a child to maximise her utility value.  He concludes with a hectoring speech about society's modern ills (Kaufman's day-job is as Member of Parliament for the ruling New Labour government).<br />Students will find this book interesting enough in a plodding way, as Kaufman laboriously and pompously recounts the film's troubled production from his undigested study of MGM records (dull reams of which are quoted verbatim).  But there is one paragraph in this book quoted from Joseph Andrew Casper's 'Vincente Minnelli and the Film Musical', which contains more critical insight and empathy then the whole of this 70-page monograph.  For Minnelli fans and lovers of the musical THAT sounds like the book to get.	2001-12-19
US	50178145	R2RGIJOY2OTQ05	0486270572	474008675	The Overcoat and Other Short Stories (Dover Thrift Editions)	Books	5	31	33	N	N	Makes most Russian literature seem absurdly solemn.	The four stories in this collection contrast a precise realism - whether it is the evocation of place and atmosphere, or a description of civil service procedure - with narratives of absurdity, fantasy and pure comedy.  If the classic 19th century novel, as epitomised by the likes of Tolstoy, mirrored a world-view that society, people or history could be known and adequately represented in fiction, than Gogol reveals the impossibility of applying that model to Russia - his is an unstable, constantly metamorphosing, fluctuating and seemingly random universe.  Whereas the apparatus of order, such as bureaucracy or the justice system only weave chaos, or, at best, a parody of order; Gogol's primary device for destabilising the familiar world is narration.  If the 19th century novel was related by a third-person, voice-of-God narrator, who knew everything about the generalities of empires and the most intimate thoughts of chambermaids, than Gogol's narrators dance constantly on the brink of madness, inopportunely professing ignorance, amnesia and prejudice, their prose styles febrile, staccato and grotesque.<br />The 'straightest' story in this collection is 'Old-Fashioned Farmers', a tragicomic story of old age, marriage and superstition, which, in its nostalgic and detailed evocation of a vanished period in Russian provinical life, looks ahead to Nabokov's ravishing memoir 'Speak Memory', albeit laced with a comic and satiric irony the later book lacks.  The long 'How The Two Ivans Quarrelled' pinpoints the pettiness of the lower gentry's notions of pride and honour, as two lifelong friends become bitter enemies when one calls the other a 'goose'.  This hilarious tale of small-town pretensions and inept local government includes the priceless scene of a fat brown sow breaking into the courthouse and stealing the petition of its owner's antagonist.<br />The famous 'Overcoat' is often considered one of the greatest stories ever written, and the way Gogol manages to avoid sentimentality in the story of an insignificant middle-aged clerk whose routine and despised life is briefly illumined by the purchase of a specially made new overcoat he can ill afford, and which is soon stolen, is admirable.  The lunge into nightmare and the savage satire of the Russian civil service remain shocking.  The standout story for me, though, is 'The Nose', which plays like Kafka rewritten by Mark Twain, in which a barber finds a nose in his breakfast, and its owner wakes up with a smooth face.  With the most glorious deadpan comedy, Gogol describes the loss and the procedures to find it as if it were a wallet: at another point, the Nose is found disguised as a councillor attempting to flee the city by horse.<br />The translations ('The Nose' by Gleb Struve, an early translator of Nabokov, and his wife Mary; the others by Isabel F. Hapgood) are readable, retrieving Gogol's brisk comic pace and some of his incongruities of language.  There is a use of cliches in Hapgood's 1886 transations, however, that can't always be credited to Gogol's deflating method, and which make certain passages feel flat.	2001-12-19
US	50178145	R3Z1HJ8WDSBPZ	0851708048	256603338	Rome Open City: Roma citta aperta (BFI Film Classics)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	The best kind of revisionist film criticism.	David Forgacs' monograph on 'Rome Open City' is as thorough an examination of a major cinematic milestone as you could hope for.  Roberto Rossellini's breakthrough film, the story of Resistance activity during the German Occupation of Rome 1943-44, was conceived, made and released in the immediate aftermath of the Liberation, and was exultantly acclaimed as a new kind of cinema, where documentary-style authenticity (largely non-professional cast, basis in recent history, real locations etc.) were seen as an answer to the lies of Fascist film in particular, and the illusions of commercial cinema in general, heralding the Golden Age of Neo-Realism.<br />Forgacs takes as his starting point Italo Calvino's remark that neo-realist works about the resistance were not 'direct representations of events in reality' but 'textual elaborations of already represented events'.  Although the major stories depicted in the film - the street murder of a pregnant woman, the torture of a communist resistant, the execution of a dissident priest - were based on real events, they had already been mythologised in oral accounts, newspaper articles, diaries, paintings, sculptures etc., which representations Rossellini synthesised in his film.<br />More damagingly, the myth of Resistance offered in 'Rome Open City', which Forgacs suggests was necessary to displace collective guilt and anger as well as provide Romans with a narrative of unity and memory, evades or distorts the more troubling aspects of the Occupation - the natives' 20-year complicity with the Fascist regime; the collaboration of the Fascist police and their network of spies with the brutalities of the Germans; the silences and compromises of the Church.  The deportations of the Jews, for instance, are not even mentioned.  The 'patriotic myth' was also a way for Rossellini to atone for his own Fascist past, having directed three features for the army.<br />This is not to suggest that Forgacs simply demolishes the film, which was immensely influential and is still the director's most accessible work.  After all, Rossellini himself later disowned the more manipulative and melodramatic aspects of thw work, which were incompatible with his more austere and viewer-challenging later films.  By offering a detailed historical and cultural context; by recreating the conditions of the film's conception, production and contemporary reception; and by analysing the film's techniques and themes (most brilliantly in his discussion of urban space, the different uses made of it by occupiers and resisters), as well as the 'polluted' (Rossellini's own phrase) ideology that informs the pretensions to objectivity (in particular the demonising of 'bad' sexuality),  Forgacs replaces the monolithically 'important' and 'truthful' film of legend with something much more complex, contradictory and intellectually satisfying.	2001-12-17
US	50178145	R27J8A8BCFFB1K	0851706452	581588518	Das Cabinet des Dr. Caligari (BFI Film Classics)	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Facts behind the myths of a former classic.	'The Cabinet of Dr. Caligari' is a legendary film that has become buried in its own legend(s).  There has been the ugly conflict between its various contibuotrs as to who actually 'authored' the film (with maligned director Robert Wiene, who died before the spats began, losing out).  There has been the contentious issue of the framing story, where the screenwriters' conceived attack on authority is neutered as the ravings as a madman.  There has been the notoriously influential thesis of art historian Siegfried Kracauer in his book 'From Caligari to Hitler', which claimed that films reflected the subconscious of a nation, and that, by virtue of the framing story, 'Caligari' somehow visualised the German desire for Nazism.  Then there is 'Caligari''s position in the history of film, as the first example of Expressionist cinema, the most widely influential 'school' in the medium.<br />Legend and myth are anathema to the British critical mind, which prefers to deal with verifiable facts.  By going back to primary sources - the original script, production memos, trade reports, advertising materials, contemporary reviews, as well as first-hand testimonies (which latter he treats with scepticism), David Robinson builds up a more prosaic, but convincing, picture of the conception and creaton of 'Caligari' (an appendix compares the original script with the finished film, allowing us to dismiss the main myth-disseminator, co-screenwriter Hans Janowitz), showing how subsequent legends were created for various self-interested reasons (e.g. as a calling-card for exiled screenwriters in World War II Hollywood).  <br />'Caligari' is revealed as less the inspired breakthrough in Cinematic Art than a happy accident - the famously Expressionist sets were less a necessary visualisation of character subjectivity than a cynical attempt to cash in on the vogue for modern art and Grand Guignol.  Wiene, derided in film history as a 'one-trick pony', is rehabilitated, as it the framing narrative once condemned as conformist.  The study offers a fascinating history of film-making in the context of post-World War I Europe, the expectations of the public and the reactions of the press.  He gives a precis of the wider Expressionist project, showing how 'Caligari' borrowed heavily from the art and theatre of its time (not just visually, but in acting technique), concluding that this style was 'bolted on' to a story that didn't really need it, rather than arising aesthetically out of it.  'Caligari' is no longer considered a great film, but it is important because people thought it was, encouraging film-makers and audiences to take more risks, paving the way for the genuine achievements of Expressionism (co-screenwriter Carl Meyer would write most of Murnau's great films).<br />This is all very interesting and a pleasure to read, but something is missing - the film itself.  There is little analysis of 'Caligari' as a movie, why it can still exert a fascination for a sympathetic audience, what the various stylistsic choices actually mean or achieve.    It's not enough to dismiss 'Caligari' as a ragbag of various accidents (so are most Hollywood 'classics') - it is still a film to be watched and understood, even if eventually dismissed.  <br />Nevertheless, this book is a visual joy, full of crisp stills, sketches for sets, and, most pleasurably, various posters for the original exhibition run (including the lurid but mysterious one on the cover) which, I must confess, are more strikingly beautiful than anything in the actual film.	2001-12-14
US	50178145	R2QK3VIUNPJVK3	0851707335	280359511	L'Argent (BFI Modern Classics)	Books	5	19	20	N	N	Demystifies Bresson, and makes him NECESSARY.	Kent Jones offers a third way for film lovers who want to appreciate the films of Robert Bresson, but are daunted by both their reputation for austere formal rigour, and by critics' insistence on their Christian doctrinal severity.  Jones advises us to reverse the usual process, which is to weld Big Themes onto the films, and instead look at what's on the screen closely, the 'sensual details' of Bresson's art, such as the hands that do routine work, the sway of coffee in a mug, a glass of wine falling on the floor, the sound of a rushing stream.  <br />On a purely visual level, the ex-painter Bresson's films can seem unusually flat, but if you connect this deliberate flatness to Bresson's use of sound and light, and the careful way he builds scenes through precise composition and 'punchy' editing, a unique three-dimensionality is achieved.  If you know how to look, Bresson's pessimistic films glow with life; if you don't, they seem mean and drab.  Jones' book does what literature on film should do and rarely does - it opens your eyes.  I rewatched 'L'Argent' soon after reading this study and the experience was revelatory.  What I had previously watched with dutiful admiration suddenly became vibrant and urgent.<br />Jones' book is a very old-fashioned piece of film-criticism, with no recourse to psychoanalysis or feminism, no attempt to discuss the film's production process or its cultural context, or to apply biographical information (probably because, in Bresson's case, there is so little known).  For Jones, 'L'Argent' is a Great Film by a Great Auteur, and analysed accordingly, as if it were a book, each detail dissected and related to the whole.  This procedure is so refreshing because in most theory-based criticism, the actual films tend to get lost (never mind any love for the medium), as minor details are absurdly inflated into whole theses.<br />Jones begins with an overview of the critical reception of Bresson's work (either over-reverent or baffled), the ways in which Difficult Ideas have obscured the essence of Bresson's cinema.  He then discusses the film's source, Tolstoy's relentlessly didactic novella 'The Forged Coupon', locating the radical differences between the two works, in narrative detail, thematic emphasis and aesthetic process, thus revealing the deeper meanings of 'L'Argent'.  The bulk of the study comprises a meticulous, scene-by-scene, shot-by-shot analysis of the film, the story of a young worker who, paid off with counterfeit notes, is dragged into an inexorable narrative of robbery, jail, marital breakdown, suicide and serial murder.  This procedure could have been plodding, but Jones alerts us to every camera angle, every cut, and, especially, every sound, making this film in particular, and, potentially, films in general, live and resonate.  He shows how Bresson gives each scene its own heightened integrity, free from the mechanical, explanatory chaff that blights most movies, resulting in high-pitched narrative of uncommon intensity.  Only when we have properly absorbed what's on the screen, can we begin talking about what isn't, abstract themes, morality, religion etc.  Jones' high-minded, high-art tone should grate, but seems refreshing in post-modern times that promised egalitarian energy and gave us nothing but conformist sludge.	2001-12-12
US	50178145	R1TB78DEXN9UMI	0486245241	344783671	Sargent Portrait Drawings: 42 Works by John Singer Sargent (Dover Art Library)	Books	5	83	85	N	N	The more intimate sketches of a society painter.	The Amazon page-listing for this volume is somewhat misleading - there ARE two pages of text (Selector Trevor J. Fairbrother's brief, insightful introduction), but there are also 42 pages of (paper) plates.  <br />Often dismissed as a mere society portrait painter, the real poignancy of John Singer Sargent's work lay in the truth that the society he recorded was on the point of vanishing with the Great War.  This sense is heightened by the form of the works reproduced here - drawings composed in pencil and charcoal.  Their Cheshire-Cat-grin sketchiness, the way faces seem to materialise or dematerialise bodiless or skeletal on the page, gives them an overwhelmingly ghostly feel.  <br />The most moving pictures here are of the now-forgotten heiresses, young wives, fresh-faced soldiers, and indulgent or austere parents, refugees from the fiction of Henry James, Edith Wharton and Proust, denied the immortality conferred on Singer's more famous subjects, such as Nijinsky, Myra Hess, Faure or Kenneth Grahame.  Singer may not be as remorselessly analytical as his literary peers, but he has a wit, satiric sense and emotional empathy all of his own, burrowing out the melancholy behind the glittering facades.  Singer seems particularly inspired by long, swan-like necks, as if their owners' beauty already sang their death.  The notorious hostess Mme. Pierre Gautreau reclines on a sofa, bored and miserable as a beached mermaid; Nellie Huxley stares at us with sad, tired eyes.  <br />Conversely, the portraits of imperious grandes dames, such as the Myrna Loy-like Mme. Eugenia Huici Errazuriz, are surprisingly sexy; while the Duchess of Marlborough flirts with gamine charm.  Portraits of friends, such as the eccentric composer Dame Ethel Smyth, are more informal and playful.  Androgyny is another favourite theme, while the unsigned portrait of working class Italian youth Olimpio Fusco glows with sympathetic homoeroticism.  In fact, Singer's defining temperament, judging  from this collection, is one of amused curiosity, as he sketches the garish and the gloomy, the restless and the resigned, the social and the solitary.  <br />The sketches of notables are often great fun - a shadow-darkened W.B. Yeats as self-regarding buffoon; Jascha Heifitz in an intense tondo of fiddle-like scribbles, encircling a still white face rapt in concentration; Viscountess Astor lost in folds of Napoleonic grandeur; and a young Ernest Thesiger, displaying impish hints of his most famous future film role, as Dr. Pretorious in 'Bride of Frankenstein'.	2001-12-07
US	50178145	RQLUTE3XWMSEQ	3822888672	201518281	20th Century Photography Postcard Book (Postcardbooks)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Now YOU can disseminate culture.	The Ludwig Museum in Cologne possesses, among its nearly 10,000 holdings, some of the most celebrated and familiar photographs in the history of the medium.  Many of them feature in this booklet of 30 shimmeringly monochrome postcards.<br />They range from star portraits, both glamorous (Helnmein's 'William S. Burroughs' complete with revolver; Beaton's 'Marlene Dietrich'; Steichen's 'Gloria Swanson') and surreal (Petrussov's 'Caricature of Rodchenko); folksy documents (Hine's 'New England Country Store'); fashion portraits (Walde Huth); urban iconography (Ignatovich's 'the Hermitage'); still lives (Kertesz); avant-garde compositions (Lissitzky, Man Ray, Maholy-Nagy); staged social commentary (Will McBride; Duane Michal's 'Paradise Regained'); and the poignantly historical (Sander's 'Young Farmers on their way to a dance').<br />These examples are meticulously arranged or composed tableaux, sculpted in light and the purest artifice - the camera is encouraged to lie.  There is nothing of the medium's documentary legacy, such as war coverage - presumably, a holiday greeting to Aunt Ethel sent on the back of a killing field would be in dubious taste.	2001-12-05
US	50178145	RBTAFNT2O2JL8	3822893137	323466578	Botticelli (Basic Art)	Books	5	36	38	N	N	Excellent introductory guide to a Western totem.	Three elements distinguish Barbara Deimling's outstanding introductory study of Botticelli, one of the High Kings of Western culture: <br />1.  Her account of the artist's work, with detailed analyses of Botticelli's densely allegorical paintings (not just in his world-renowned mythological scenes 'Primavera' and 'Birth of Venus', but his more numerous religious works also); the influence on him of literature, from classical poetry to the Bible and theology to Dante (some of the famous sketches for whose 'Divine Comedy' are included here); and the development of his celebrated style, from the sumptouosness of his mid-period, with its graceful, idealised human figures and concern with architectural perspective, to the austere late works, marking a rejection of Renaissance 'realism', and a return to the stylisation and exagerration of the Gothic period, and a new emotional charge, particularly in some harrowing crucifixion and lamentation scenes.<br />2.  The use of Botticelli as a model for the teaching of art history.  Deimling is not content to treat Botticelli as a lone genius who transcended his time, and concentrating solely on his pictures' form and content.  By placing Botticelli firmly in the historical realities of 15th century Florence (its economic worldliness giving onto religious hysteria and acopalyptic moods near its end), Deimling shows that every one of his paintings bears the imprint, not only of the period's aesthetic innovations, but of the patrons who  commissioned him.  Aesthetic choices - such as the use of gold-leaf paint - is decided not by inner imperative, but the desire of a patron to show off his wealth and status, or a merchants' guild to advertise their wares.  Colours, motifs, even figures in the paintings, represent the important figures of the day, and the symbolism of their professions and families.  The surprise is not that Botticelli was a unique genius, but that he managed to create works inspiring spiritual awe in such a mundane, compromised context.<br />3. The usual high Taschen quality of plates, admirably reproducing Botticelli's colours, especially the glowing reds that streak his work.  Many Botticelli paintings are too big and long to be adequately reproduced, but there is an intelligent use of details to give the reader some idea of his art.  If I have one complaint, it is the downplaying of Botticelli's humour and eroticism, but what do you want in 96 pages?	2001-12-05
US	50178145	R3HO3ELQRBBVZ5	0804422362	847703997	Alphaville (Lorrimer Classic Screen Play Ser)	Books	5	27	29	N	N	Might help us catch up a little with Godard!	Published screenplays should be as irrelevant to the film lover as instructions on the side of self-raising flour are to the gourmet.  At best, their interest is limited to scholars and researchers.  In the case of Jean-Luc Cinema Godard, however, they are a godsend.  Godard's films are so dense, even simply on the verbal level, with allusions, philosophical ideas, aphorisms, puns, complex jokes etc., it is impossible to take them all in during a single viewing.  Publishing a screenplay like 'Alphaville' (a sci-fi/detective thriller in which a totalitarian, technocratic regime run by a HAL-like computer is overthrown not by weapons or physical skill, but by a book of Surrealist poetry (Eluard's 'La capitale de la douleur')) is therefore invaluable, and allows us to return to the film more open to its visual astonishments.  As was common with the director, Godard didn't actually work from a completed script; this verbatim transcript from the finished film was originally made to facilitate sub-title work.  <br />This edition contains a fine introduction by French cinema specialist Richard Roud, explaining some of Godard's visual sources and the 'ethical' meaning of his stylistic choices (the circle is evil, etc.); over 30 stills and photos from production; and Godard's original treatment (entitled 'A new Lemmy Caution Adventure'), which is fascinating to compare with the finished masterpiece, as well as revealing how completely different the concepts 'story' and 'mise-en-scene' are for Godard.	2001-11-29
US	50178145	R8DO4J38GOOA7	0241110998	59816524	A Hot Country	Books	3	6	8	N	N	Very 'post-colonial'.	'A Hot Country' almost reads like a parody of a 'post-colonial' novel, just waiting to be snapped up by earnest lecturers and set on English Literature classes.  Set in the fictional South American country of Cuyama, a former slave colony recently granted independence, it focuses on three characters: Dina Massingham, the book's main centre of consciousness, daughter of an Anglicised Hindustani family, and gutted of soul, spirit and hope, by a combination of personal experience, character and historical circumstances; her unlovable husband, Aubrey St. Pierre, scion of the country's pre-eminent slave-owners, now living in genteel decline, full of egotistical humanitarian desire to atone for his family's past, and given to pedantic and pompous speeches full of noble Enlightenment values that seem preposterous and ineffectual in this context; and Aubrey's former college room-mate Alex Richer, a journalist famous for writing about Third World regimes, now jaded and unwillingly visiting a friend he had unceremoniously dumped.<br />Like most post-colonial literature (especially from my home country Ireland), 'A Hot Country' chooses to focus on the class in decline rather than the liberated former slaves, the resentful poor, the underclass, the politically disenfranchised, the 'mob'.  This has the effect of pandering to the world-view of the assumed middle-class reader, even as it is criticised.  And in that view, politics, history and other people are not scientific disciplines that can be analysed or understood with cause and effect precision, but as hazy and hallucinatory as the atmospheric effects created by the grey, mirror-like sea, the mouldering vegetation and the burning sun, as the somnolent lives and minds of the characters, especially Dina.  We learn what independence, the increasing totlitarianism of and hostility towards the whites by the Marxist regime means to the declining elite, but the majority black population remain an enigmatic Other, their voices confined to malevolent stares, acts of violence and mass frenzy - the country is hot not just because of the rotting tropical climate, but because the old colonial town is being razed to the ground.  Even Dina, the most coherent and least unsympathetic character, poised, as a Christianised Hindustani married to old gentry, between both worlds, seems less a suffering, feeling person, than an idea of what women should be in post-colonial, proto-feminist literature (at one point, she actually says, in conversation: 'Each morning, I have to re-invent myself'.  Like you do).  <br />Too many conversations are unnaturally staged to Inform The Reader; too many scenes are set up to be heavily symbolic.  The book is written in that kind of verbose journalese you get in Coetzee, studiously trying to avoid the literary, the poetic, the beautiful; but also, by extension, the life-like.	2001-11-29
US	50178145	R7179XU9UQSCJ	1560974273	582435172	Ghost World	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Short and sweet and sour.	'Ghost World' is less a novel than a series of linked short stories, each of which is full of telling vignettes detailing the attempts of teenage friends Enid and Becky, just out of high school, to fill up the long, dull days in their anonymous home town which, in its monotonous uniformity, its relentless linearity, its surprising emptiness, seems more like a Cold War-era East German city than what we might expect from America, especially as evoked in the green monochrome of Clowes' drawings, emphasising the oppressive, box/prison-like angularity of buildings and interiors.<br />There is a cinematic quality to Clowes' visual storytelling - American indie cinema, anyway; not just in the way he frames his compositions, or his movements from establishing 'shot' to close-up, but also in the elliptical editing between scenes, the abrupt cutting off that frees the reader to interpret the gaps, the unsaid between or behind the heroines' very verbal riffs.  Because 'Ghost World' is an incredibly melancholy work behind the comic set-pieces (losing virginity, taunting loser friends, hanging out at record and comic shops, playing tricks on strangers etc.) and tart observations and cruel jokes, suffused with loneliness, fear for the future, as two young women with the unavoidable and unknown in front of them, try to avoid it by stasis, by submerging themselves in an unchanging, trashy everyday they despise.  <br />There's something desperately sad about 16 year olds (16!) aching nostalgic for their youthful records, which is only supposed to happen when you're middle-aged - we may grow up so fast, but the culture attending our needs never catches up.  what's worse is that the anchor to which you cling, your best friend, will soon outgrow you.  This book's ending is quite simply the greatest, most bleakly unforgettable, I have ever read.<br />'Ghost World' has been called an updated 'Catcher in the Rye', but is free from any of the sanctimony, sentimentality or self-pity such acomparison implies.  it has an anguished comic truth and canniness and beauty of its own that makes it one of the great American novels.	2001-11-28
US	50178145	R23YF87VKM96N8	0140444599	52930533	On Love and Barley: Haiku of Basho (Penguin Classics)	Books	3	7	8	N	N	All things great in small.	At a time when Milton and Dryden were producing their prolix epics, the Japanese Zen monk Basho was paring poetic language down to its very essence, managing to pack as much philosophy and metaphysics, narrative, evocation of place and custom, human behaviour and emotion in 17 syllable haikus as the Englishmen did in endless cantos.  Unfortunately, the non-Japanese reader will never be able to appreciate Basho - his poetic art is such an inseparable union of form and content, that an inability to translate the former means an inability to understand the latter; while any attempt to replicate the 17-syllable structure in a completely alien language and mindset would be grotesque.  <br />So, from the start, Lucien Stryk's admirable attempt to evoke the spirit of Basho is doomed.  The reader can do other things with his translations, however.  The compression of the haiku actually gives the reader a lot of freedom to construct narratives, moods and feelings from the barest hints: of the peasant monk Basho travelling throughout Japan, visiting temples; eating; meeting friends and passers-by; passing mountains, trees, seas, rivers, waterfalls, gardens; sleeping in fields or on the side of the road; looking at the moon or a butterfly; sights transformed by sounds or smells.  <br />It probably helps if you know something about Japan and Buddhism to appreciate the allusions packed in the poetry, and Stryk's introduction (which also briefly posits Basho's aims and technique, and his position in the tradition of the genre) and notes are of some help.  The movement of the poems are remarkably fluid and expansive within such narrow limits, with their hierarchies of nature, fusion of the senses and questioning of reality all cohering to create the oneness with nature that was Basho's ideal.  <br />The overwhelming mood is one of serenity, of passive marvelling at the riches of nature, of plays of light or wind, of unexpected, tiny, revelatory details; but there is also an acknowledgement of human folly, poverty, war ('Summer grasses, all that remains of soldiers' dreams'), decay and death - Basho's deathbed poem is truly desolating.  <br />To be honest, I was much more engaged by the sketches by Taige that accompany the text, effortlessly combining the representation of nature with abstract thought that Basho strove for in his poetry (although other reasons for my dissatisfaction seem to be more precisly located in the reader Ty Hadman's very valuable comment below).	2001-11-26
US	50178145	R2XTSM0M2H9T81	0851705804	416190859	Annie Hall	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Brief but excellent + informative study of a major U.S. film	Peter Cowie's monograph is the perfect companion to Woody Allen's first masterpiece, and one of the best in the BFI Classics series.  'Annie Hall' is the film that marked Allen's transition from a sketch-based, spoof/parody comedian, to the sardonic romantic comic with pretensions to seriousness that has divided critics ever since.  Cowie explains the various elements of this development: Allen's confidence, perhaps on turning 40, to rework autobiography; the absorbing and rethinking, rather than jokey ticking off, of influences (literary - Kafka, Dostoevsky, Max Shulman; European cinema - Bergman (whose confessional, intimate aesthetic Allen is credited with importing to the American cinema), Fellini, Godard; American silent comedy, especially Chaplin; the Jewish stand-up tradition); the crystallising of major themes (Jewish identity in a WASP culture; the romanticising of New York and the denigration of culturally braindead L.A.; the fragility of relationships and the debilitating effects of excessive self-consciousness etc.).  <br />Most valuably, Cowie shows how Allen, beloved for his verbal dexterity, is actually a restlessly inventive and visual film-maker: 'Annie Hall' is his most tricksy and experimental film, playing with time, narration, gags, visual effects like his previous films, but here channelled into deepening the film's central relationship and surrounding ideas.  <br />The major chapter, 'Inside Annie Hall' is a masterly mix of synopsis and insightful commentary, as alive to the lovable throwaway details as the resonant Big Themes and complex narrative structure.  An appendix offers an invaluable glossary of the film's profuse cultural references, many of which now only survive  thanks to 'Annie Hall'.	2001-11-24
US	50178145	R1DIOGDCCAQ4XV	0486266826	393870158	The Cherry Orchard	Books	4	11	15	N	N	Better on stage than the page.	Too often, 'The Cherry Orchard' moves dangerously close to that dread thing, the Shavian 'comedy' of ideas.  full of facile symbolism, a schematic narrative arc and obvious allegorical characterisation, the play seems to groan under the weight of characters pontificating on grave matters such as social and historical change, the 'idea' of Russia and the rhetoric of freedom and progress.<br />What saves 'Orchard' is the merciful fact that it was written by Chekhov and not Shaw.  Whatever his overall conception of the play's weighty themes - the decline of the aristocracy; the new economic power of former serfs etc. - Chekhov is simply incapable of writing mere mouthpieces, and every character, no matter how monstrous, limited, avaricious, delusive or paralysed (in action or mind), is suffused with the kind of life (flawed, egocentric, perhaps, but human) for which he had a unique, sympathetic, though always honestly satirical eye.  it is a tough task to make an audience empathise with a group of silly former slave-owners, but death, loss, change, poverty, personal failure and disappointment are things we have all felt, and we would probably be lying if we couldn't find something of ourselves in most of the characters (I, worryingly, found myself most drawn to the snobbish, immature, enndearingly gauche Gaev).  <br />There are too many emotionally loaded, privileged and enigmatic moments for characters to be simply straw targets, and the play is shot through with poignant autobiographical resonances (it was Chekhov's last, written when he was terminally ill).  In fact, the one character I found thoroughly dislikable is the one who seems to make the most humanitarian sense, the revolutionary student Trophimof; but his tedious, inhuman sermons about work and the future sound too much like the Bolsheviks whose barbaric utopia would be established less than two decades later. <br />Unlike Wilde, say, or Shakespeare, Chekhov rarely reads very well on the page.  His deliberately plain speech can seem flat, and the importance of silence, waiting, time passing with an almost painful tangibility is impossible to convey, never mind the rhythms that become so evident in performance, or the use of sound effects and music (American translations seem to me the best, fluid and not fusty; I read Carol Rocamora's this time).  This is why actors treasure him - his plays are almost like sketches, giving them unprecedented freedom to create characters from hints and ambiguities.  <br />Another difference between Shaw and Chekhov is that the former's plays are theses or theorems, designed to prove points the author is unswervingly convinced of before he's even written a word.  Chekhov is rarely sure about anything, and his plays are liberatingly, if perilously, open-ended.  Despite the rigid structures he fences them in, his characters always feel as if they have lived before the play and will continue to, no matter how badly, long after it.  <br />It should also be remembered that Chekhov called 'Orchard' a comedy: it is full of characters and scenes tottering from tragedy to farce.  Charlotta, the tragicomic governess, full of amazing magic tricks and ventriloquism, yet fundamentally isolated and facing a desperately uncertain future, is perhaps emblematic.	2001-11-16
US	50178145	R3QS7WPCKJ7SV0	0807611441	296540978	The Fall of Kelvin Walker: A Fable of the Sixties	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Slight, but amusing pilgrim's progress.	I had read so much about Alasdair Gray - about his narrative ambition, his linguistic invention, his surreal fantasy, his dark humour, his political anger, his status as a pioneering modern Scottish writer etc. - that it was surprising to find in 'The Fall of Kelvin Walker' a short, amusing, but unmistakably fogeyish, Kingsley Amis-like, harmless comedy.<br />The story features a young provincial Scot who, inspired by furtive readings of Nietszche, runs away from home and his sternly religious father to London, determined by sheer will to power to begin a career at the top.  'Fall' contrives to be a satire of the media (especially  the BBC and the popular press) and its cosying up to the political classes; a new kind of old-boy-network based on influence and wealth rather than class; the conservatism of establishment liberalism.  But this satire is utterly toothless - the targets are not real-life figures and bear little relation to any; by omitting all detail that would convince us of the plausibiolity of these milieux and, therefore, the force of satire on them, the world Kelvin strides is so fantastical and whimsical, no target in it is worth the hitting.<br />This sense of the blithely unreal is increased by the historical setting: subtitled 'A Fable of the 60s', there is very little sense of period, unless you count the relative value of money, or the ease with which an unknown, uneducated, regional young man rises in the Establishment.<br />'Fall' is no satire, then: its movement as a romantic comedy soon fizzles out into a concern with religious intolerance.  That the book remains at all enjoyable is due to the crisp and rapid lightness of the deadpan prose; the Amis-like narrative momentum through comic set-pieces (Kelvin's interview with the BBC is particularly funny); and the cast of characters who, if not particularly real, are engaging enough to keep you interested.	2001-11-16
US	50178145	R2VX6224OOSAMB	0140186522	489174445	Heart of Darkness (Classic, 20th-Century, Penguin)	Books	5	14	16	N	N	Hints ending in a deep sigh.	'Heart of Darkness', the tale of a European seaman journeying up an African river, is a Chinese box of Chinese whispers.  What perhaps strikes the first-time reader (like myself) first is the unbridgeable conflict between the work's apparent aim - the exposure of the barbaric reality behind the enlightenment propaganda of Imperialist bureaucracies - and its effect, a baffling nebulousness; this is matched by conflict between the prodigious exactness of Conrad's prose, and the vague thoughts, images, feelings, events it asks us to imagine.<br />this sense of intangibility results primarily from the narration itself - Marlow's tale of the search for Kurtz is related to the reader by an intermediary narrator; it is told by a disembodied voice on a boat-trip one Thames night.  Marlow's story is itself full of further removes, fragments of information pieced from stories, hints, unreliable statements and testimonies, paintings, myths, ciphers on books.  the plot and its mechanics are always abstracted - the tangible trip  up a geographical river becomes a journey back in time stripped of place-names or datemarks; an ambush takes place in a blinding fog; throughout, Marlow's ideas, equivocations, euphemisms, evasions and philosophical ruminations over what happens (specifically, what Kurtz has done) takes precedence over any concrete detail.  The language constantly evokes dreams, nightmares, shades, phantoms - inanimate objects (such as abandoned machinery) become signs of desolating death, more articulate than the dead humans in similar positions.<br />'Heart' is usually seen as the first masterpiece of the 20th century and one of the key modernist texts, but, for me, its effect was similar to a much older literary genre, the Gothic, the 'horror, horror' story.  The elaborate framing narrative devices; the emphasis on physical and mental deterioration; the doppelganger motif (Marlow and Kurtz echo each other throughout, not least as disembodied voices bewitching their listeners on boats), the intimations of the Satanic and 'I Walked with a Zombie' sacrifices-in-the-bush atmosphere; the move from 'enlightened, time-bound civilisation to barbaric, timeless primitivism; from a social order to a boundless nightmare.  The African landscape is shaped by references to key Western texts of the supernatural, from Virgil to Dante to Perrault.  <br />Conrad follows his master Henry James' lead here, using verbal precision to articulate an unidentified and unidentifiable black hole, and 'Heart' is, along with 'the Turn of the Screw', the scariest, dread-freezing book I have ever read.  Like the Gothic, therefore, Conrad is not simply concerned with the unpalatable realities of a particular political system, but the individual unfathomabilities that allow them to happen; if we feel this somehow cheats the critique by obscuring it, than, a century of 'the horror' later, can we say we are any more articulate than Marlow?<br />(Of all the editions of 'Heart' available, I would recommend two, both, curiously, published by Penguin in 1995.  that by John Lyon, returns the novella to its original book-form, as the second of a trilogy including 'Youth' and 'The end of the tether'; his introduction brilliantly analyses the formal minutae of Conrad's art, its structures and details, the way the difficult demands it makes on the reader provoke the story's themes, effect and meaning.  <br />That by Robert Hampson, which reproduces Conrad's 'Congo Diary' of the 1890 trip that partly inspired the novella, places 'Heart' in its original context, the culmination of 19th century European expansion in Africa, with its attendant justifications and anxieties, including among the many prototypes for Kurtz, H M Stanley (of '...and Livingstone' fame), an aggressive, murderous, capitalistic imperialist.  he convincingly defends 'Heart', a text much vilified by post-colonial and feminist critics from charges of collusive racism and misogyny, reminding us not to confuse a writer with his hero, demonstrating the devices employed by Conrad to distanciate the two).	2001-11-12
US	50178145	R3EWP9VL5SVPHT	156584677X	850921736	Who Killed Roger Ackroyd?: The Mystery Behind the Agatha Christie Mystery	Books	5	11	14	N	N	Relax! Bayard affirms the greatness of Agatha Christie.	This book could never have been written by an Anglophone critic, who would treat the French reverence of Agatha Christie with the same bemused condescension as its apotheosis of Jerry Lewis (when Bayard lists the major writers who have discussed 'Who Killed Roger Ackroyd?' (Barthes, Eco, Robbe-Grillet, Perec et al), English-speaking writers are predictably absent).  Coming from such an Anglophone culture as I do, it is startling to find Christie discussed not as a slick purveyor of narrow puzzles, but as a great writer of works of art, to be analysed with the same respect as Tolstoy and Flaubert.  Bayard can make such claims because of his method - by focusing rigorously on the body of work, the texts and their techniques, and dismissing the irrelevant claims of biography, class, gender, history, context etc., he ironically opens them up, reveals their formal daring, their, their philosophical depth, their proto-post-modernist concern with the reader, the author and the stability of the text.  In a comment on Durrenmatt's 'The Pledge' recently, I sarcastically referred to Christie as a modernist; after Bayard's book I stand disgraced.<br />so although this book's novelty and selling point is the idea that Christie got it wrong, that the solution to her most ingenious and controversial novel doesn't make much sense, it is really a celebration of how Christie got it innovatively right for decades, an achievement that went unnoticed because, as a writer of puzzles, she didn't produce the kind of books that get reread, unlike those of Flaubert and Tolstoy.  so Bayard's book is also a celebration of the detective genre, a theoretical analysis of its structures of meaning, showing how they actually undermine their ostensible purpose, the restoration of order and clarity (e.g. the narration of any detective story is always an instance of bad faith, constructing false worlds in order to trick the reader).  <br />The book is also a case for revivifying the waning practice of(specifically Freudian) psychoanalysis, especially in reading literary works - after all, the work of psychoanalysts and detectives, uncovering events in the past by an examination and interpretation of clues or signifcant events, are very similar (ditto literary critics).  <br />Most ambitiously, it is a book about the acts of writing and reading - in a performance of Barthesian magnanimity, Bayard shows how Christie destroys the structures and assumptions of conventional narration, thereby liberating the imaginative and interpretive powers of the reader willing to take up the challenge.  In finding links between detective work, theory construction and clinical delusion, Bayard endearingly begins chasing his own tail, and the book will be invaluable to readers of Raymond Queneau.  <br />But, most pressingly, the book remains true to its promise - the self-sufficient theoretical analyses (largely readable, although I made heavy weather of the 'delusion' section) are firmly in the service of the book's mystery - who, then, really did kill Roger Ackroyd? - which in itself is constructed like an Agatha Christie-style mystery, with clues followed up, discarded or co-opted before a final, Poirot-like flourish, which is immensely satisfying, both at the level of the crime genre and the original novel, and and on that of open-ended, philosophical speculation.  It'll make you rush to Christie's books with renewed awe.	2001-11-06
US	50178145	RI5HBH3CM0DR8	0851704670	856704620	Boudu Saved from Drowning (Boudu Sauve Des Eaux) (BFI Film Classics)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A modest study that might just change the way you watch film	Anyone interested in reading about film will be aware that, for the last 30 or so years, the area has been dominated by linguistic, historical, philosophical and cultural theories borrowed from other disciplines (e.g. structuralism, psychoanalysis etc.).  while this process has been fruitful in moving the study of cinema away from simplistic literary-type interpretations to a proper appreciation of film's function and structure as a visual medium, and in liberating the viewer from the position of passive receiver of images to a thinking critic and organiser of them, few would deny that these theories and their jargon have become stale, rigid and knee-jerk, prohibiting thought, stifling new ways of looking at film.<br />In an article last year in the august British film magazine, 'Sight and Sound', Robert B. Ray, author of 'The Avant-Garde finds Andy Hardy' proposed a solution: using WG Sebald's essay-novel 'The Rings of Saturn' as a model, he suggests taking a 'walking tour' of a movie, taking images and details as starting points for histories and stories that might provide alternative ways of understanding film.<br />6 years previously, Richard Boston did just that in his BFI Classic monograph on Jean Renoir's 'Boudu saved from drowning', the comedy about a suicidal tramp saved by a good-natured bourgeois bookseller, who wreaks havoc on his benefactor's house, seducing both his wife and his mistress.  by focusing on specific images - the river, the Left Bank on which the film largely takes place, a dog, a water-lily etc. - as well as the biographies of director Renoir, the amazing actor Simon and source-writer Rene Fauchois, he constructs an alternative history of 'Boudu', ranging from Greek philosophers Thales and Heraclitus to Shakespeare and Smollett and Shaw (brrrr) to the Impressionists and Zola (Auguste Renoir's son's own cultural legacy) to the Marx Brothers and Laurel and Hardy to Renoir's inheritors, including Bazin, Truffaut and Godard.<br />Boston callsthis method sedimentology, looking for the traces of the tributaries that flowed into the great river 'Boudu'.  Seemingly irrelevant and marginal stories and asides gradually cohere, brilliantly enriching our appreciation of an apparently simple film that has such a mythic resonance, correcting various bogus 'facts' (that Boudu was a proto-hippy; that the original play was cosily middle class) along the way.  in effect he creates a suggestive psycho-history of the film in the way, say, Iain Sinclair, Peter Ackroyd or Patrick Keillor create psycho-geographies of London.<br />this method will infuriate some, and the lack of precise analysis of Renoir's actual film technique is a gaping hole (and some of Boston's interpretations seem myopically wrong, especially that of the horn-player picture as Boudu cuckolds a host who defined his waning sexual prowess in terms of Pan's pipes).  But the medthod is so novel, the writing so intellectually curious, generous and engaging, and the book so entertaining and constantly surprising, that one can only salute it as a possible new step forward in the history of film writing.	2001-11-06
US	50178145	R1H4RTUTFH1QWU	382285977X	724963752	Matisse	Books	4	41	47	N	N	Cursory text, fabulous illustrations.	the problem with series that attempt to impose an accessible beginners' format on art and artists is that these things rarely conform to method.  the Taschen introductions to great artists are all 96 pages long, dividing the artist's life into significant chronological chapters, following strict biography, and using key paintings to illustrate various points made.  this is fine in practice, we've all got to start somewhere, and the series is noted for its refusal to talk down to the reader, its clarity of interpretation, and the bounteous range of miraculously mounted, full-colour reproductions, not just of paintings, but line drawings, lithographs, sketches, studies, woodcuts etc.<br />The obvious difficulty is not that artists are transcendent and wayward figures who won't fit into a neat grid, but that some artists lived to be considerably older than others.  the first book in this series I read was Anna Meseure's 'Auguste Macke', the study of a painter who died when he was only 27.  Meseure was able to elaborate each development in Macke's work in detail, and to give a proper treatment of biographical background and its influence on the art, if only on the level of subject matter.<br />Macke, however, remains a marginal figure.  henri Matisse is one of the towering geniuses of 20th century culture.  He lived, and painted masterpieces, until he was 85; his life spanned two cataclysmic World Wars, a riot of social and political changes, and almost every aesthetic revolution worth talking about in the last 150 years.  given the same amount of space to discuss Matisse as Meseure had with a painter a third his age, Essers' study can't help being a cursory skim, with few revelatory anecdotes (we only learn in the chronology about Matisse's pilgrimmage to the aging Renoir; his theatre designs for Stravinsky; or the visit of Aragon to his sickbed during World War Two - such episodes are surely as important as some given prominence in the book), or, worse, few intimations of the blinding raptures that must have seized Matisse at each new artistic discovery and breakthrough.  We learn very little about his relation to his cultural milieu, his tacit rivalry with Picasso, or his overall importance in the history of art; discussion of the work is apolitically formalist.  Uncomfortable questions - the obsessiveness of his early year despite his family's poverty; his apoliticism during World War Two - are skimmed over.<br />None of this really matters.  Matisse's work travels surprisingly well in reproduction, especially the later works involving cut-outs, simplified forms and bold colours.  the colours throughout are done full bright justice to, so dazzling in fact that reading this book for more than an hour gave me a headache.  The rich mix of classics ('Woman with the Hat', 'La Dance', 'Jazz') with the revelatory, less well-known (including spare, geometric, near-abstract views of Notre Dame during World War One) allow us to write our own story of this shamanic artist, whose patrician, Freudian mien concealed the colours and curves of a blazing and boundless inner life.	2001-10-31
US	50178145	R1115WS56ONP2T	0140186913	630320957	Loving; Living; Party Going (Penguin Twentieth-Century Classics)	Books	5	111	115	N	N	Limpid, fluid and porous as water; soars like a bird.	Written at the end of the Second World War, sandwiched between 'Once upon a day' and 'they lived happily ever after', a death and a marriage, 'Loving' is a fairy tale of the rarest enchantment. While war and social disruption echo from the 'real' world, 'Loving' offers us a sprawling castle from which we never leave, crowded with brilliant peacocks, doves making love on a huge dovecote replica of Pisa's Leaning Tower, and the most elaborately absurd decor in fiction. Within this rarefied, hermetic milieu, broadly familiar from the novels of Elizabeth Bowen and Evelyn Waugh, unravels a tale of a declining aristocracy (the cuckolded man of the house is at war) and cast of bickering, spying, scheming, anxious, unsettled servants, with the focus, unusually, on the latter, especially Raunce the new butler, and Edith, the beautiful, lively maid, two of the richest characters in fiction, not because they're particularly extraordinary, but because Green, in fleet, tightly packed comic-romantic-ironic-prismatic prose, remains alert and faithful to their every mood, whim, desire and fear, creating a genuine, joyful, life-like unexpectedness, and, in the combination of unreal surroundings and emotional realism, rapture after rapture of epiphany, such as the distant sight of two girls waltzing to a worn phonograph, endlessly reflected in the glass of a chandelier. It is one of my favourite books.<br />'Living' is an astonishing achievement by any standards, never mind those of a 24-year-old, and one that suggests that Green's peers are not his schoolfriends Waugh or Anthony Powell, but prose-poets like Virginia Woolf or Samuel Beckett who try to capture the quicksilver complexity of human behaviour. Like 'Loving', 'Living' is a story of the working class, here labourers in an iron foundary in Birmingham, and their wives, daughters and children, with their 'superiors' again playing a subordinate, even ridiculous role. The novel's style is at first daunting, spliced into cross-cutting vignettes, and written in a language that approximates a proletarian idiom. This could have been embarrassingly patronising, a la Galsworthy or Arnold Bennett, but actually facilitates an elastic language full of pure, pregnant poetry. The sharp cross-cutting highlights the novel's many divisions - boss-worker, man-woman, young-old, community-individual etc. - but also connects them in unexpected ways. The title is typically multi-layered - meaning the work people have to do; the way it defines their lives; the struggles of people to better their lives, or simply to live well in an atmosphere of mechanical routine; the idea of class or work as a living in the religious sense, as a vocation you can't avoid. Rigid livelihoods and iron works, a world where the public and private are virtually indistinct, paradoxically produce metaphors emphasising flight, water and fluidity.<br />The focus of these two novels is reversed in 'Party Going', with its cast of brittle Bright Young Things going on holiday to the Riviera. In a startling narrative conceit predating by two decades Bunuel's similar film 'The Exterminating Angel', the entire novel takes place during four hours in a London railway station, as the passengers are stranded by a heavy fog. Wrenched out of a glittering social context, the party-goers' superficial personalities are exposed, their petty selfishness barely masking fears (identity, sexual, social, gender, age, the future etc.) and resentments. As their tempers fray in the railway hotel, the suburban crowd below sing and laugh and grow increasingly irked outside, a terrible mass embodying various hysterical anxieties for the socialites when they can be bothered to notice them. As this structural image suggests, 'Party Going' can be read as a 'State of the nation' allegory, written between 1931 and 1938, and oppressively articulating the general deterioration of a decade Auden called 'low, dishonest' - it is irresistable to see it portending the comingwar and social upheaval. The novel begins with a character finding a dead bird, and besides the fog-dark plot inertia that stills the novel, 'Party Going' is suffused with thoughts and images of sickness and death, its minimum narrative unfolding in interminable, sterile tableaux. If this makes it sound like a downer party, I must add that it is Green's funniest novel, with situations and dialogue as laugh-out-loud funny as Waugh, but with the added, mercurial Green poetry (water and birds again) and descriptive geometry, lending dignity and depth to non-entities who don't seem to deserve it.<br />Three novels - some of the most remarkable prose of the 20th century.	2001-10-26
US	50178145	RUQZN4M7XT5XJ	3822806714	861576535	August Macke	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Introduction to one of the 20th c.'s great colourists	Auguste Macke was only 27 when he died in action in the first month of World War One, and is usually classed as an Expressionist because these are the type of paintings he was producing in the last months of his life.  But as Anna Meseure's study demonstrates, Macke went through more and quicker changes of style than Picasso, moving every few months from Symbolism to Impressionism to Post-Impressionism to Fauvism to Cubism to the Blaue Reiter Group to Futurism to Orphism to Expressionism.  In this intense metamorphosing over about six years, Macke is an index to the extraordinary modernist activity that exploded in the decade prior to World War 1.  but whereas Picasso's need for change was driven by intense personal need, it is difficult to overcome the suspicion of dilettantism in Macke's work, this amiable son of the bourgeoisie; a painter who never faced the economic anguish of many artists, thanks to the generosity of his industrialist uncle-in-law; a man happiest in family life and provincial towns: a kind of gentleman amateur, someone blissfully unaware of a world hurtling towards an apocalyptic war.  Even an epochal trip to Tunisia with Paul Klee, which resulted in his most celebrated work, only lasted a fortnight.  Meseure encourages this conception by emphasising how Macke's encounters with radical cultural currents were always transformed by him in a reactionary way - so his urban scenes inspired by the visual fractures of Futurism become passive and contemplative, leaked of tension.  although he contibuted to the first Blaue Reiter exhibition and its 'Almanac', he fundamentally disagreed with its figurehead Kandinsky.<br />There is some continuity in all this stylistic leap-frogging - the subject matter of the Impressionists (streets, cafes, parks etc.), the geometrical compositions of Cezanne, and, above all, the blazing colours of the Fauves.  Because it is as a colourist that Macke is treasured today - even his most derivative paintings are lit with a luminous, Degas-like glow.  Meseure defines Macke's life-work as an attempt to reconcile 'abstraction' with 'empathy', to paint the found world with severe formalism, pushing the representation towards abstraction without ever abandoning the former.  Inevitably, dead at the age of 27, Macke cannot but seem (Meseure concludes) an artist of unfulfilled promise.<br />Macke's text is serviceable as a biographical introduction to the artist, and as a guide to the formal properties of his work, his use of colour and his compositional method.  In overempahsising his interest in form over content, however, she tends to under-estimate the latter, which leads to some dubious interpretation of the paintings.  For instance, the major 'Girls Under Trees' of 1914 is considered a 'utopian vision', despite the fact that one girl is isolated from two groups, separated from the one nearest by a phallic tree which might explain why.  Meseure quotes Macke - 'Even in the games of children, even in the hat of a cocotte, in our joy at a sunny day, invisible ideas gently assume material form' - but doesn't seem to grasp the darker implications of this credo.  the solitude, the inertia and the facelessness of his figures certainly allow for a more negative, perhaps deeper appreciation.<br />In any case, the magnificent, generous, full-colour reproductions allow us to make up our own minds.  which begs one question - how can Taschen produce such high-quality reproductions in such cheaply priced books, when many of its competitors offer dull photocopies?luminous, Degas-like glow.  Meseure defines Macke's life-work as an attempt to reconcile 'abstraction' with 'empathy', to paint the found world with severe formalism, pushing the representation towards abstraction without ever abandoning the former.  Inevitably, dead at the age of 27, Macke cannot but seem (Meseure concludes) an artist of unfulfilled promise.<br />Macke's text is serviceable as a biographical introduction to the artist, and as a guide to the formal properties of his work, his use of colour and his compositional method.  In overempahsising his interest in form over content, however, she tends to under-estimate the latter, which leads to some dubious interpretation of the paintings.  For instance, the major 'Girls Under Trees' of 1914 is considered a 'utopian vision', despite the fact that one girl is isolated from two groups, separated from the one nearest by a phallic tree which might explain why.  Meseure quotes Macke - 'Even in the games of children, even in the hat of a cocotte, in our joy at a sunny day, invisible ideas gently assume material form' - but doesn't seem to grasp the darker implications of this credo.  the solitude, the inertia and the facelessness of his figures certainly allow for a more negative, perhaps deeper appreciation.  <br />In any case, the magnificent, generous, full-colour reproductions allow us to make up our own minds.  which begs one question - how can Taschen produce such high-quality reproductions in such cheaply priced books, when many of its competitors offer dull photocopies?	2001-10-24
US	50178145	R1RELRH3REKEUV	0140135154	828022040	Ways of Seeing: Based on the BBC Television Series (Penguin Books for Art)	Books	5	124	131	N	N	An historical document, but still fiercely relevant.	thirty years on, 'Ways of Seeing' continues to be a major primary textbook, not just for those studying or interested in fine art, but in any of the humanities from literature to cinema.  You can see the appeal for lecturers - difficult but essential theorists such as Benjamin and Barthes are explained with bite-size lucidity, even if this sometimes has the effect of caricaturing their work.  As Geoff Dyer has noted, much of the impetus given to Cultural Studies, the critical/academic form of post-modernism, can be traced to Berger's TV series and this book: many of the questions raised and areas for study pinponted have generated a whole academic industry.<br />In seven chapters, Berger assaults the traditional bastions of art 'appreciation', with its obfuscating jargon, elitist interests and, most damagingly, its insistence on timeless, non-'historical' values.  three of these essays are text-free, image-based, and Berger claims all the essays can be read independently and in any order, as part of the process of 'deconstructing' the apparatus of art criticism that includes laying bare the mechanics, manipulations and limitations of his arguments, and undermining the very idea of coherent authorship by suggesting the name 'John Berger' signifies a five-piece collective.<br />contrary to Berger's claim, the image-essays can only be properly understood in connection with the textual ones.  these are four now-classic pieces of critical iconoclasm.  the first synopsises Benjamin's famous essay 'the Work of Art in the Age of Mechanical Reproduction', and discusses how art, and the culture it embodies, has lost its old rarefied authority in a demystifying age of image overload.  chapter three analyses the classic tradition of nude paintings, and the misogynistic/patriarchal worldview it upheld.  A related chapter, five, shows how oil painting, far from ennobling the viewer's soul, was used to celebrate and confirm property, unequal social relations, even slavery.  The final chapter discusses the legacy of this tradition in modern advertising and publicity.<br />Most of Berger's ideas hold up remarkably well three decades later, sturdy enough not to need the linguistic acrobatics of his successors.  As is appropriate, though, for a book pleading the return of history to the criticism or art, 'Ways of Seeing' is itself an historical document.  Not just in the sense of a pioneer work being a little dated in its language, a little exposed in its own ideological assumptions.  unlike his followers, Berger still seems to love some art, even if his 'exceptions' seem to lack method.  Some of his very personal discussions about 'love-making' strike me as being a bit embarrassing, but I'm probably repressed.  His Marxist beliefs might have been expected to be the most obsolete element of the book, but the clarity and passion of his ideas are refreshing in these ideologically compromised times.  <br />No, what I mean is, when Berger wrote this book, he was very much the rebellious outsider kicking against the cultural institutions and assumptions propping up various social inequalities.  While politically little has changed, the culture industry has been made over in Berger's image.  Every work of criticism on literature, cinema, art, even history is now shaped in some way by the ideas formulated here.  it is ironic and sad that a book dedicated to opening minds and new ways of seeing (and thinking), should have merely replaced one monolithic worldview with another.	2001-10-22
US	50178145	RJUUQSYGRHX3W	0851703410	505503911	Olympia (BFI Film Classics)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	An exemplary study of one of cinema's most notorious works.	In writing his monograph on 'Olympia', Leni Riefenstahl's epic record of the 1936 Berlin Olympic Games, Taylor Downing has to deal with questions most film critics don't face.  Planned to glorify the Nazi regime, this Olympiad was the most spectacular yet, with massive new stadia built, state-of-the-art facilities provided for spectators and athletes, and ceremonies of extravagant pomp orchestrated by Albert Speer.  Riefenstahl had Hitler's personal blessing to make the film, and was given unprecedented financial and administrative support to expose all this Aryan glory to the world.<br />Downing does full justice to this troubling film.  He does not avoid its propaganda basis, and the best bits of the book narrate the historical context in which the film was made (Downing is the TV producer of politic-historical programmes like 'The Cold War'), sifting through the self-justifying rewriting Riefenstahl has been doing for decades.<br />But Downing is scrupolously fair to the film as a piece of Olympic film-making (Downing has co-ordinated the TV coverage for two Games).  He shows how in itself, the film is a very fair representation of the event, with the amazing achievements of the African American athletes as celebrated as the German victories (which I hadn't noticed, suggesting I brought my own prejudices to the movie), in spite of the Nazis' racial 'theories' (although he could have mentioned that Jesse Owens' miraculous Games, hailed here as a victory of democracy over fascism, went unnoticed at home, and that he was reduced to racing dogs and horses for a livelihood).  Indeed, he makes the telling point that it was the Americans, in 1984, who were first reprimanded by the International Olympic Committee for the excessive chauvinism of their TV coverage.  <br />He is full of admiration for Riefenstahl's technical ingenuity, offering a fascinating potted history of Olympic film-making to date, revealing just how revolutionary the German was.  As a fellow practitioner, he brilliantly explains the logistics of the shoot, the breakthroughs of new cinematic technology, the importance of the director's collaborators, and, valuably, the meaning of the varied stylistic choices Riefenstahl made.  It seems odd, however, that he doesn't interpret her relentless fetishising of the human body as itself fascist - maybe he's right.  <br />However, he doesn't change my own feelings for the film, the overwhelming unhealthiness of all that health.  In fact, the one film this book has made me ache to see is not the Riefenstahl classic it's about, but Kon Ichikawa's film of the 1964 Tokyo Olympiad, which sounds fantastic.	2001-10-17
US	50178145	R2WON415C3I5FP	0486264688	703586211	A Shropshire Lad (Dover Thrift Editions)	Books	5	30	31	N	N	ghost-like remembrances of forgotten way of life.	the title of 'A Shropshire Lad' indicates both rural specificity and human universality, and it is in the gap between the two that the poems' tension and tragedy lie.  they evoke a timeless pastoral world, of streams, plains and roses; of ploughing, carousing and love-making; of villages, churches and football; all belonging to the unchanging cycle of the seasons.  In this context man as a type, as a member of a community, is eternal also, not least in the folk idiom in which Housman's classical clarity is decaptively cloaked.<br />as an individual, however, the 'lad' is insubstantial, doomed to leave or die as rural life continues unchanging without him.  Many of the poems are narrated by exiles or ghosts, crushed to find the old routine the same as if they had never existed - the phantom of 'Is my team ploughing?' discovers even his grieving sweetheart now warm in his interlocutor's bed; he of 'Bredon Hill' plans his wedding, only to attend his own funeral.<br />Housman uses a direct and simple vocabulary and metre with devastating resonances, the very music of the poetry at once rooted in the eternal communal land and yet indicative of sadness and loss.  Written in 1896, the irony of death and change in the never-ending countryside was doubled by the reality that the countryside was changing, that the centuries-old lifestyles were being encroached on by industry and modernity - what seemed to be inviolable itself becomes obsolete.  in hindsight, a third, poignant irony is added - within 20 years of publication, these lads would be sent to the slaughter in World War One, as previsioned in 'On the idle hill of summer'.  One of Housman's greatest admirers, the composer George Butterworth, who wrote two song-cycles based on these beautiful poems, would be one such victim.	2001-10-16
US	50178145	R15G43D99BG64L	0851707734	240184789	Fires Were Started (BFI Film Classics)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Sage introduction to one of Britain's greatest filmmakers.	The most important and influential development in 1930s British cinema was the documentary movement, which was given the name by its chief practitioner, John Grierson, head of the General Post Office Film Unit. These documentaries weren't what we understand by the term today - rather than utilising fly-on-the-wall, observational techniques, these films were reconstructions of actual, 'typical' events, involving prior 'scientific' research and witness accounts, and often using scripted dialogue, sets and some kind of narrative structure.<br />Most of these films - dull, instructional, governmental works - are of little cinematic interest today. Only one figure emerges with claims to genius - Humphrey Jennings, Cambridge don, poet, painter, pioneering sociologist and organiser of the first British Surrealist exhibition. Jennings began work with Grierson's unit in the mid-30s, but was pre-eminent during the war, with a series of films that transcended their documentary or propaganda origins to magically capture that elusive British spirit. For this, he has been called 'The only real poet the British cinema yet produced'.<br />Although the most conventional of his films - a feature length drama narrating one day and night in the activities of the London Fire Brigade and the volunteer Auxiliary Fire Service during the Blitz of 1940-41 - 'Fires Were Started' is considered Jennings' masterpiece, and typical of his style. It mixes conventional 'documentary' elements, such as the training routine of the service or the structural workings of the system, with moments of pure epiphany - the flute-playing of a busker as the firemen go to work; a sing-song in the Recreation room before the exigencies of fire-fighting; the recital of poetry by Raleigh and Shakespeare. In this way, recognisable, flawed, 'ordinary' people take on an unsentimental, uncondescending, unforced stature.<br />Documentary theorist Brian Winston doesn't set out to question Jennings' canonical status, meticulously detailing and analysing the elements of his style instead. He puts the film in its historical context, as well as situating Jennings as both an idiosyncratic individual and as an often unwilling part of Grierson's documentary unit. He emphasises the collaborative input behind Jennings' work, in particular the contribution of editor Stewart McAllister, who achieved many of the films' most startling and evocative effects.<br />The details of the production are highly revealing of British attitudes at the time regarding censorship, as well as the urgent needs of censorship (e.g. the 'authentic', fruity language of the firemen had to be toned down; the important role of women is minimised; the bureaucratic bumbling of the system is ignored; the realities of the black market, conscientious objecting, shirking and other 'unpatriotic' activities are downplayed).<br />Most importantly, Winston distinguishes Jennings' form of propaganda, which depends on appeals to shared notions of British identity, rooted in history, culture and experience, to the brainwashing, mind-thumping of, say, Leni Riefenstahl. <br />He concludes with an impassioned defence of the film's 'documentary value' (and, ironically, this reconstruction has yielded some of the most famous 'real' images of the Blitz we have), in spite of failing to live up to the narrow, 'tendentious' criteria nowadays demanded of the form. <br />In the end, however, as Lindsay Anderson, Jennings' most famous proselytiser, noted, the magic of his world 'can be analysed only to a certain point, then it must simply be experienced'. If this book provokes enthusiastic interest in the unique joys of Jennings' cinema, than it will have been worth writing.	2001-10-16
US	50178145	R2DWJ99N4KHZH	0486234118	682393693	Concerning the Spiritual in Art	Books	5	96	102	N	N	Invaluable historical document; challenge to the future.	The 1910s was surely the most exciting, radical, innovative and genuinely NEW period in the history of all the arts, writing, music, painting, cinema, dance.  it was also one of the few periods when creative frenzy was escorted by critical might, and is almost as famous for its artistic collectives, its '-isms', its iconoclasms and its spectacularly aggressive, wipe-the-slate-clean manifestoes as it is for any one artwork produced.<br />Today, however, there aren't many of these manifstoes that possess more than quaint historical value.  Kandinsky's 'Concerning the Spiritual in Art' is one, and probably to our own shame, speaks as loudly to us today as it did to the artist's contemporaries.  A cry against all that is bogus or a dead-end in art - the bourgeois-currying; the trend-following; the excessively materialistic, naturalistic or representational; art in which formal invention is not matched by emotional power - the book demands a return to spirituality in art in an age where a godless faith in science has resulted in a soulless culture.<br />Kandinsky is the artist who said that 'Art was close to religion', and his concept of painting is heavly bound up with his Russian orthodox upbringing (as well as later exposure to theosophy).  One does not have to be a card-carrying mystic, however, to recognise the truth of his central argument, that the only art with the power to truly move us is that which is ruthlessly faithful to the artist's inner need, not public taste or contemporary styles.<br />this belief led Kandinsky towards abstraction: he rejected the idea that a painter should draw what was on the surface, instead of its inherent spirit or harmony (if this led to a cul-de-sac in 20th century art, this is because Kandinsky's mimics lacked his moral drive).  This book is fascinating as Kandinsky, still creating recognisably (though distorted) representational works, was struggling towards the abstract geomotry for which he is now famous.  It is essential for any lover of Kandinsky's work, and modern art in general, with its revealing analyses of colour and form, their 'psychology', and the various effects they can achieve.  it is a portrait of modernism from the inside, and it is goosebumping reading a gifted contemporary passing judgement on Picasso and Matisse, although time has parted company with him in his preference for Maeterlinck and Isadora Duncan.  <br />In his demand for a total art that would unite theatre, music and painting, he looks forward to the great Ballets Russes happenings, most significantly Nijinsky/Stravinsky/Picasso's 'The Rite of spring'.  Throughout, he calls for painting to achieve the non-naturalistic liberation of music.  <br />But behind the passion and certainty is an intellectually playful (not always caught by the fusty translation), though deadly earnest artist, who knows that everything he says is provisional and a guide, a record of his own groping, striving, tireless searching.	2001-10-05
US	50178145	R1KKVIOK2YZHX4	072930051X	574628727	Valera: Pepita Jimenez (Critical Guides to Spanish Texts)	Books	2	0	2	N	N	Obsolescent study of an obsolescent novel.	Part of the 'Critical Studies of Spanish Texts' series, James Whiston's study of Juan Valera's once-famous and now relatively forgotten 1874 novel 'Pepita Jimenez' about an aspirant to the priesthood and his love for a beautiful young widow, is itself something of a dinosaur. Written in 1977, around the time French theory was becoming ubiquitous in the humanities, it is a thoroughly conventional study - Background; Composition; Thematic Structure; Tone. so while it is mercifully free of the linguistic and ideological contortions that have blighted literature studies in the past two decades, it also lacks the intellectual energy and genuine insights structuralism et al can sometimes offer.<br />Whiston is most concerned with the theme of conciliation. Written and serialised during the second Carlist war, a time of violent division in Spain of the kind re-enacted during the Civil War, Valera's aim was to reconcile the various factions and temperaments of his time - the Church, the aristocracy, the middle and working classes; deep spiritual feeling and sexual human nature. Whiston effectively describes how Valera's irony works to harmonise these tensions. He also discusses the book's elaborate narrative structure, without remarking how this might destabilise the superficial harmony; and the powerful influence of Nature on characterisation. <br />The problem is that Whiston too often takes Valera's public pronouncements on the novel, and on literature in general, at face value, without taking note of the various compromises and strategies artists had to employ to sell themselves in the 19th century.	2001-09-25
US	50178145	R3UWQI927YZN65	0425178986	556294920	The Pledge	Books	5	9	10	N	N	A compulsive crime novel about a compulsive detective.	'the Pledge' is subtitled 'A Requeim for the Detective Novel', and can be seen as part of the project of dismantling the classic detective story begun by Borges in the early 1940s: the undermining of its affirmations of law, order and reason - the very idea that mysteries can be solved and normality restored.  <br />'The Pledge' is an ironical story in the truest, Greek sense; introduced as the story of a brilliant, loner detective made mad by obsessional dedication to a hopeless case - his belief that the wrong man was found guilty of a child murder, and his insane attempts to catch the 'true' killer, despite the mockery of his superiors and peers.  The central scene takes place in a delapidated mental institute; the narrative is structured in a repetitive circle, one the hero Matthai sacrifices his mind trying to break.  His obsession puts another little girl in horrible danger; and the complacent, socially-conscious police are driven to abominable acts, the forces of law and order replicating the mania of a murderous defective.<br />'The Pledge' is a detective story about writing detective stories: the narrator is a crime writer giving a lecture about his field: a former police Commissioner tells him the tale of Matthai's downfall, with its atrocious ironies and blind accidents, as a corrective to genre writers' neat and reassuring tidying up of messy life.  The frame increases the story's ambiguity; it also allows for a number of psychological studies - Matthai himself; the character of the good-food-loving, cigar-chomping, smugly philosophical Commissioner; and, perhaps most importantly, behind the narrative screen, the narrator/author himself, with his mania for 're-ordering' and improving, and his fondness for alcohol.  <br />Those of us for whom knowledge of Swiss culture extends to Harry Lime's 'cuckoo clock' speech in 'The third man' will find in the novel an extraordinary insight into why such an enviably ordered, rational society as Switzerland, with such a high standard of living, could, with its infernal boredom and waiting,  produce such horrors.  The idea of a casual promise seizing an emotionally lifeless man, like some kind of curse, adds a supernatural frisson to a supposedly rational genre.<br />Despite splices of terrifying, modernist tableaux, such as the near-lynching of a suspect, or the disturbing cries and phantoms of the mental institute, 'The Pledge' can be enjoyed as a straight, gripping crime story, unlike most 'anti-detective' or post-modernist crime works. I read this in the old Penguin Crime green jacket edition, a series including other noted European modernists such as Agatha Christie and Erle Stanley Gardner.	2001-09-25
US	50178145	R3RCBS0A5ZVA4G	0720610990	252644629	The Last Summer (Peter Owen Modern Classics)	Books	3	12	13	N	N	A rare prose work from the author of 'Doctor Zhivago'.	Pasternak's novella is more of an extended prose poem - its movement is not through narrative or character, but the flux of imagery, both observational and metaphorical.  An invalided Russian soldier arrives in 1916 at a remote factory town near the Urals to stay with his married sister; he rests after the long train journey, and reminisces, or dreams, about the months preceding the outbreak of World War One, his graduation from college, his job as a tutor with a wealthy, unhappily married family, his relations with various women (his sister, his mistress, her paid companion, prostitutes).  <br />This slight story is merely a frame on which is hung the overpowering expression of a developing artistic sensibility, as it transforms the world around it - the sights, sounds and smells; the description of storms, city streets, parks, dust-winds, snows. The language is continually, fluidly metamorphosing, in keeping with the artist's mind, so that the reader is continually jolted and carried away from thought to evocation to feeling.  In this world, the human beings are passive, phantom-like, while things, objects, nature, have an active, conscious power.  <br />Like Joyce's  similar 'Portrait of the artist as a young man', this dense poetry of autobiography and bildungsroman strives towards the creation of a work of art, in this case a rather portentous drama (which is apparently devastatingly beautiful in the Russian); while the reader is always conscious of the shadows of war and Revolution (the book was published in 1934).  <br />According to Lydia Slater in the introduction, George Reavey's translation came out at a time (1959; revised 1960) when hundreds of inferior, rushed translations were cashing in on the success of 'Doctor Zhivago' and the author's Nobel Prize refusal - she says 'it is surprising to find that some translations from Pasternak really do have something in common with the original text'.  Reavey captures the density of Pasternak's language and hisjarring stylistic effects, but he rarely captures that 'pure and undiluted poetry', that 'drama and lyricism' Slater finds in the original.  In any case, Pasternak's illumination of the mundane and of awakening consciousness seem, to me, to lack the magic or humour of Nabokov's contemporary Russian work.	2001-09-21
US	50178145	RJHCJ25J9WEEG	0192832956	721919226	The Lifted Veil / Brother Jacob (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	3	13	17	N	N	The dark Hyde to Eliot's more familiar, 'warm' Jekyll works.	My previous experience of reading George Eliot (admittedly about a decade ago) had been unhappy - her celebrated humanism seemed like so much fussy interference; 'Silas Marner' was too cosy, and I could not get past the infuriating first chapter of 'Middlemarch'.  I've always felt a bit guilty about abandoning 'the greatest English novelist', and this volume of two short tales was a perfect opportunity to see whther my tastes had matured.<br />'The Lifted Veil' is a dark masterpiece, part-Gothic tale, written in the stilted style of famous horror stories like 'Frankenstein', in which inexplicable horror is described with unnervingly inappropriate articulacy; part-Henry James study of an idle, wealthy man tormented by the unknowability of a woman and her faithfulness (shades of Proust too, who worshipped Eliot).  <br />As Gothic, its influence on cinema has been slight, although the narrator who narrates his own death looks to 'Sunset Boulevard', while a character who can see others' minds was recently enacted in 'What Women Want'.  The story begins with one of the best, most shocking openings in English literature, as the hero Latimer, blighted with the gift of 'prevision', gives a detailed account of the way he will die, alone in a crumbling mansion, abandoned by careless servants.  <br />At times, the story reads like a textbook psychological study with a solipsistic hero who lost his beloved mother at a young age, whose father resented him as inadequate, and whose brother's fiancee he loves.  The various previsions he has are full of those details Freudian critics enjoy.  But those previsions are described in ominous tableaux, and the switch from 'real life' into these states has a genuinely disorienting effect on the reader.  <br />The text has always been seen as valuable as a rare instance of Eliot in effect denying or questioning the humanist principles of her most characteristic work and her interest in progressive science - its narrative is hermetic, anti-humanistic, circular: conflating time to an eternal, hellish present.<br />'Brother Jacob' is more like the Eliot I remembered, the story of a confectioner's apprentice who steals from his mother to emigrate to Jamaica where he intends to be given his fortune.  Although it is a (sour) moral fable, with every character emerging badly, rather than warmly humanistic, the novels' irritations are here - the bossy, intrusive narration; the portrait of a growing, bourgeois community, lifelessly focusing on their obsessions with status and money, where every metaphor is inextricably linked with commerce and consumption.  Each character is a caricature: the 'humour' is smug, smart-alecky, sarcastic and sneering.  The tale is full of the details English Literature critics enjoy - colonialism, mental defectives, assumed identities etc.<br />The volume is worth reading for Sally Shuttleworth's exhaustive introduction, which discusses the stories in the context of Eliot's life and work (both are seen as negative allegories for writing and the writer), British Imperialism, laissez-faire economics, gender, the growth of science and progressive philosophy as the new religion etc.	2001-09-21
US	50178145	R2B1U4YYR98SCL	1583488235	949256182	Pepita Jimenez (Spanish Edition)	Books	4	16	18	N	N	A forgotten masterpiece.	'Pepita Jimenez', once considered the great 19th century Spanish novel, now lies neglected by most readers and critics.  Neither Penguins, Everyman nor Oxford, the pre-eminent publishers of 'Classics', have ever produced an edition, and I only became aware of its existence by accident on the net.  <br />Having just read - and loved - the novel, I can see some reasons for its decline in popularity.  for a start, unlike most 19th century novels, it is not realistic or naturalistic; it does not portray a society with voluminous detail.  The hero, Don Luis de Vargas, the son of an Andalusian squire and an aspirant to the priesthood, is prone to use the high-flown, ecstatic and orotund language of the spirit, which, though set up by Valera to be undermined, can irritate the reader with its verbosity.  The translation, by Valera himself, needs to be updated for the tastes of a modern readership - the famed beauty of the original can appear washily sentimental in unforgiving English.  Most importantly, the novel's sunny benevolence, its attempt to reconcile the totems of Spanish conservatism - the Church, the Aristocracy, the Family - with less tractable forces such as Love and Nature, is not fashionable with critics who historicise Spain as a country with violent divisions, and who want their fiction to conform to this vision.<br />for those willing to take the chance, however, 'Pepita' has something for everyone.  Its story of a theologian and his attempts to repress a growing love for the title character, a young widow and the intended of his rakish father, has all the abundant romanticism, terrible tension and potential tragedy of 'Wuthering Heights'.  From the novel's first page, when Don Luis describes to his uncle and mentor the Archbishop his first meeting with Pepita, we know what will happen - the interest lies in the unfolding of the inevitable and the psychology of the characters, especially Luis, whose sacred and profane raptures spring from the same source (in its relentless focus on an unstable and delusive psychology, 'Pepita' is closer to the works of Prevost, Constant and Stendhal, than later 19th century realists).<br />Though not a realistic novel, the book is full of indelible set-pieces of Andalusian village life (trade, social occasions, rites, customs, night-life, festivals, in which the Christian and the pagan are indistinguishable, just as they are in Luis' imagination); and the overwhelming natural beauty, the latter made to serve and reflect the claustrophobic visions and passions of the characters (in its limited focus, in its conflation of spiritual and romantic ideas and language, its slippery allegorical possibilities and its proto-Expressionism, 'Pepita' could be considered the Spanish Nathaniel Hawthorne).<br />For post-modernists, the novel's straightforward, simple narrative is contained in an elaborate framework, more familiar from Gothic fiction.  Parts 1 and 3 consist of letters to the archbishop from his nephew and ward Luis, and his brother, found on his death with his effects.  Part 2 consists of a 'paralipomena', a 'fictional' third person narrative continuing the story.  The officious editor of these papers speculates in vain on the provenance of this fiction.  His own conjectures, interpretations and asides throughout, his alarming tendency to 'edit' the material without explaining his procedures, together with Valera's profound irony, sensual displacement of sexuality and unexpected humour, casts doubt on the novel's seeming optimism, without once diminishing its nerve-wracking immediacy.	2001-09-19
US	50178145	R1D08JTOUY4GGG	0141301139	518363415	Fantastic Mr. Fox	Books	4	58	69	N	N	Fantastic, funny and not a little cruel.	There seems to have been a major shift in children's literature recently, thanks, of course, to the pre-eminence of Harry Potter.  The latter is a hero parents can be proud of - bespectacled, middle-class, studious: the subtext is education is fun, enlightening and empowering.  <br />The major children's writer before JK Rowling was Roald Dahl, who boasted few of these virtues, offering children cruel wit, and a morbid, often murderous mistrust of parents, adults, education and authority in general.  He also implied that children could be malevolent and destructive.  Parents hated him - I had to discover Dahl through friends; my mum bought me Enid Blyton.  There was always the thrilling feeling that you were doing something illicit or conspiratorial reading Roald Dahl.<br />The hero of 'Fantastic Mr Fox' is a thief, a violater of property and business, and a murderer and torturer of animals, traits unlikely to endear him to the English middle classes.  On the other hand, he rejoices in family values, still endearingly in love with his wife, and a great father.  Under impossible odds, he tries to save his family and a host of other animals from the cruelty of three vile farmers, Boggis, Bunce and Bean, who are sick of the varmint's nocturnal sorties for their produce.  <br />First they try to shoot him, but only pepper his tail (a deliciously gruesome episode).  Next they dig into his tunnel, but he can dig faster.  They use huge mechanical diggers, turning a hill into a valley.  They try to starve him, surrounding the area with weapon-wielding minions.<br />The story of 'Fox' is very simple with few twists and turns.  The impact, however, can be traumatic, and not just for young children - I read this to my wife (as you do), and we both got very anxious for our heroes, faced with the terrifying industrial might of the farmers.  The irony of the story is ecological - while trying to save a few goods for business, the farmers nearly destroy the countryside and an entire animal network; the fox can only do what is natural, which is steal and kill (to which Dahl is faithful with admirable unsentimentality).  The image of the three farmers waiting, possibly forever, at the hole for the fox to starve, is chilling and close to Beckett.  <br />Once again, Dahl gets a great deal of pleasure in frightening his young audience, and his way with alliterative insults is as delightful as ever, while Quentin Blake's scribbles, though not part of the original book, are now so synonymous with Dahl's world, it's impossible to imagine it without them.	2001-09-19
US	50178145	R10DUDMI5WHQFV	0060907002	559469913	No One Writes to the Colonel and Other Stories	Books	3	15	21	N	N	A low-key study of old age.	Although there are a few minor events in Marquez's muted novella - a funeral, a trip to the casino, the arrival of a circus, a cockfight trial - the story is more concerned with the mundane fact of the colonel's repetitive everyday existence, his domestic rituals, walks, conversations, his waiting for the official letter confirming his pension that never comes.  Details about the region's political situation and history filter through gradually, and despite a shortage of exterior detail, there is some local colour - the postmaster drinking pink froth as he makes his way through harbour stalls to meet the launch; the priest who gives movie censorship details by bell-ringing,  spying on the cinema to note the disobedient.  <br />'No-one writes to the colonel' is a portrait of old age, that period when physical decay conflicts with still-alert mental pride; the dependence on others with the unreliability of family, friends or the State;  increasing poverty with forlorn attempts at gentility; the dreadful trauma of outliving your children; the perhaps worse fate of seeing your ideals and efforts fail, the world constituted in someone else's image.<br />Your pleasure in this story will probably depend on how you take the colonel, from whose point of view it is almost entirely narrated - he has no interior life, there are no accounts of his feelings or opinions beyond what he says to others, so revelation of his character must be gleaned through movement and the things he notices.  The focus on mundane objects, conversations and rituals takes on a spiritual force, but can come close to sentimentality as Marquez over-eggs the colonel's dignity; although it is just as easy to see the hero as a kind of moral monster in the way he treats his wife so that he can uphold his dubious honour.<br />'Colonel' is written in that Hemingway-esque style which is always called 'deceptively simple': there are few of the heart-quickening flourishes that made Marquez's masterpiece '100 Years of solitude' so magical - a brilliant funeral scene where the wilting Colonel is addressed by the corpse; a crisp December morning in which the privy livitates, if only for a milimetre.	2001-09-13
US	50178145	RQN7WOECNSOJ6	0552088242	910611510	A Puzzle in Pearls	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Perfect rail-journey fare.	My wife - a mystery fiction obsessive - has about fifty books by John Creasey staring from our bookcase, so I eventually gave in and read one, to see why he is so compulsive.  the Fernando Pessoa of sensationalist crime fiction, Creasey wrote hundreds of books under as many pseudonyms, such as JJ Marric and Gordon Ashe, creating popular series with heroes like Gideon, Inspector Roger West, The Baron and the Toff, which sold by the millions.  Almost all of his books are today out of print, and his name, like Nobel and Francis MacManus, only survives by virtue of a literary prize named in his honour.  One of his books was filmed by John Ford as 'Gideon's Day', a police procedural starring Jack Hawkins.<br />'A Puzzle in Pearls' was first published in 1949, but the version I read was a 1971 revision.  Judging by the increasingly lurid covers of Creasey's books, the rewriting probably resulted in additions of violence, but 'Puzzle' remains as quaint as a fistfight.  The story centres on Roger Macclesfield, an innocent on holiday at an English sea-side resort, who gets involved with the Boon family, the father a retired Colonel, his beautiful daughter Angela, and her jocular brothers, Peter and Adam; and a brutal gang of jewellery-smugglers led by the mysterious Mizzy, who abduct their victims' children to ensure stolen jewellery isn't downpriced by being 'hot'.  The dull-witted local police are supplanted by a benevolent seven-foot giant, Patrick Dawlish, a private detective unofficially sanctioned by Scotland Yard to do the dirty work they can't be seen to.<br />It's easy to see why Creasey was once so popular.  He is an efficient technician who knew how to set up plot and set-pieces for maximum, if simple-minded, effect.  Like Garcia-Marquez in 'No-one writes to the colonel', he tells the story through his protagonist's point-of-view, without delving too deeply into his psychology, allowing us to simultaneously identify with and mistrust him, adding to the tension.  Although there is an almost jolly picaresque mood, considering some ghastly incidents, conservative institutions such as the family, the army and free trade are critiqued, if not dismissed.  <br />The book's opening is almost Surreal - an obsessive man stalking an elusive woman, like one of Breton's amants fous, on the edge of a steep English cliff.  A car approaches behind him silently, a motorboat appears below.  A man suddenly emerges from the cliff and asks him to light his cigarette.  Soon crime narrative proper takes over from enfantomastic fantasy, but there is an amiable air of make-believe underlining the gritty generics throughout.	2001-09-12
US	50178145	R3RQJNDG9TAQVO	0671722891	749895845	The Taming of the Shrew (The New Folger Library)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Shakespeare's funniest farce.	'The Taming of the Shrew' is Shakespeare's most purely enjoyable play, especially in the theatre.  Its language is easy to understand, with very little of the elaborate figures that can be difficult to follow on stage; the plot, with various suitors vying for the hands of sisters beautiful Bianca and shrewish Katerina, a web of disguises and mistaken identities, with servants pretending to be masters and vice versa, is pure bawdy farce.  this fluidity of social roles is quite subversive - fixed hierarchies are shown to be merely a case of good acting.<br />  Formally, 'Taming' is one of Shakespeare's most audacious, as a play-withing-a-play-within-the-play - it starts with an aristorcrat and his servant playing a joke on a drunken peasant, by making him believe he is a lord; the play put on for him, 'The Taming of the Shrew', is full of comic and thematic echoes of this framing plot, in thich the servant dresses as the peasant's noble wife.  Within this play, characters play roles and stage plays for various unwitting audiences.<br />for all its entertainment and brilliance, however, 'Taming' has always been one of Shakesepeare's most notoriously  uncomfortable plays - we are asked to watch the subduing of a strong, vocal, witty, satirical, indepedent woman by a bullying braggart.  There are moments within the general sneering, when we are allowed sympathise with Kate in her loneliness and feelings of being made the butt of abuse and jokes, but it is difficult to watch scenes with a gang of men holding the stage, deciding the fate of the women.<br />Shakespeare's cunning text leaves plenty of room to displace the misogyny - as a play-within-a-play, 'Taming' can be seen as reflecting a smarmy nobleman's assumptions rather than Shakespeare's; the knowledge that in Shakespeare's day, all female roles were played by males can ironise what seems an oppressively gendered work.<br />In a production I recently saw in Galway's Town Hall Theatre, the gender roles were reversed, and the doubling of parts provocative, taking cues from the framing play - this transformed 'Taming' into a miraculous precursor to 'Some Like it hot', with gender stereotypes overplayed to reveal that gender is, mostly, stereotype.ersed, and the doubling of parts provocative, taking cues from the framing play - this transformed 'Taming' into a miraculous precursor to 'Some Like it hot', with gender stereotypes overplayed to reveal that gender is, mostly, stereotype.	2001-09-12
US	50178145	RVULL9YNG36RR	0811209458	177480528	The Blue Flowers (New Directions Paperbook)	Books	5	24	27	N	N	The ultimate in literary 'vice versa'.	'The Blue Flowers' is the most lovable of all Raymond Queneau's novels, one of those rare books you never want to end (for me, the only others I can think of are 'Huckleberry Finn' and 'Dance to the music of time'). It relates two paralell narratives (or rather - and Queneau is the great mathematical novelist! - base and perpendicular narratives): the historical narrative of the endearingly aggressive Duc d'Auge, nay-sayer to royal authority and public opinion, friend of Gilles de Rais and the Marquis de Sade, and debunker of religion to the extent of daubing on caves in the Perigord region to 'prove' the existence of humanity before Adam; his three daughters, including the defective, bleating Phelise, and their small-minded spouses; his squire Mouscaillot and their talking horses, philosophical Demosthenes and taciturn Stef; and his clerical foils, the abbes Biroton and Riphinte. We meet the Duke at 175 year historical intervals - refusing to rejoin the barbarous crusades in 1264, and forced to slaughter disapproving bourgeoisie; investing in new weaponry, most notably the cannon, in defence of his castle in 1439; dabbling in alchemy in 1614; fleeing the French Revolution in 1789. Throughout he hunts, visits the capital, marries woodcutters' young daughters, feasts ferociously, and debates with his clergy.<BR>From the terrifying active Duke, the contemporary story focuses on passive Cidrolin, once wrongly convicted for a crime for which he is still persecuted by an unknown graffiti artist who daubs obscene accusations on his fence every night. Now living on a barge, drinking endless glasses of essence of fennel, he doesn't do much, giving directions to tourists, staring at construction sites or the nearby camping site. Any trip out of the ordinary invariably finds him back where he started; conversations are banal and repetitive. Like the Duke, he has three daughters and sons-in-law, a dead wife and the first name Joachim. He spends most of his time taking siestas,dreaming of the Duke. When the Duke sleeps, usually replete from an enormous meal, he dreams of Cidrolin. Queneau says his book's starting point was the old Chinese saying about a philosopher - When he went to sleep, he dreamt of a butterfly; when he woke up, he wondered whether he was a butterfly dreaming of a philosopher.<BR>'Flowers' is, according to the experts, Queneau's most dense and philosophical novel, an intimidating mixture of Chinese philosophy, 'Finnegan's Wake', Plato, Hegel etc. It certainly deals with Big Themes, such as History, Time, Cosmology, Art, the Importance and Interpretation of Dreams. But for the less intellectually alert amongst us (including me), 'Flowers' offers sundry, more accessible pleasures. The comic set-pieces, which can arise from slapstick; bathos and deflated rhetoric; the deadpan recording of absurd conversations, and the absurd convolutions of deadpan conversations. the characters, from whom biography and psychology is deliberately and crucially elided, nevertheless end up being so completely endearing you don't want to leave them. The eulogy to dreams and their subversive power over official history. The detective story element - what crime was Cidrolin accused of? Who is his persector? Why is the watchman of the camp spying on him? Who sabotaged the new flats? Mostly, 'Flowers' is a joy for its language: the historical settings and wide social range of characters allowing for an Augian feast of archaic and obsolete words, jaw-breaking technical terms, slang, puns, neologisms, for all of which Barbara Wright finds delightful and rich equivalents in the wealth of English life and literature. So inventive, audacious and important is her translating, she should really be credited as the book's co-author.	2001-08-30
US	50178145	R3BKF2SPEZ6ZON	048629580X	719128287	Bacchae (Dover Thrift Editions)	Books	4	35	35	N	N	The most verbally extravagant of all Greek dramas.	If, like me, you had Greek Tragedy down as an austere thing, full of parched plains, unswerving Fate and dour verse, then 'The Bacchae' might come as a pleasant surprise. It has these things of course, but the first quality that shocks is the vibrant, fervid excess of the language. The story concerns Dionysus, the God of wine, the Life Force, the Chaos of the Irrational etc., who inspires a possessed devotion in his acolytes, as they express themselves in high-flown, ecstatic rhapsodies. Not every one takes this proto-hippie's divinity seriously, in particular the family of his mortal mother, led by the impetuous teenage king Pentheus, who sees all this Bacchanalia in the woods and mountains in loose robes as so much lechery. Dionysus exacts such terrible revenge on these unbelievers that 'Bacchae' makes Shakespeare's 'Titus Andronicus' look like a Julie Andrews vehicle.<BR>If Sophocles' 'Oedipus the King' is the first detective story, than 'Bacchae' might be the first police procedural - a central sequence sees Pentheus arrest Dionysus and interrogate him, a scene as tightly written and suspenseful as any thriller. But detection and policing, embodying the forces of reason and the Law, have no power against the Irrational or Unknowable, and Pentheus is soon made mad, his order and sense of self in tatters. The terrible grip of irony familiar from Greek Tragedy gives the play a violent momentum, but the most extraordinary scenes take place offstage, related in vivid and tumultuous monolgues by messengers - the whirlwind revenge of Dionysus' female followers on the forces of surveilling civilisation, and the cruel enactment of the God's revenge. This idea of hearing about improbable catastrophes but not being able to see them adds ot the supernatural terror that is the play's fevered life-blood.	2001-08-29
US	50178145	R3CFWTVHLVZ3Z0	0886820030	163823165	Two Friends (Classic Short Stories)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A whimsical story about the terrible consequences of whim.	'Two Friends' is one of the most sympathetic yet cruel stories Guy de Maupassant ever wrote. It is sympathetic in the portrait of the two heroes, a pair of idle bourgeoises who spend their Sundays fishing in Colombes, away, as one character says, from the boulevard, in perfect sympathy with each other. Such an idyll seems destroyed by the Franco-Prussian war, with Paris besieged, and the surrounding countryside deserted; but a chance meeting decides the somewhat inebriated friends on braving their pastoral in the midst of all the fear, hatred and carnage. The story is sympathetic in its portrait of nature, the sunset spectacle ominously bleeding the river; the vast empty paysage our fearful heroes cross, crouching behind vineyards. It is cruel in exposing the fragility of such bourgeois comfort and short-sightedness, which is really recklessness and desire; in the violent intrusion of war; in the clash between archetypal Frenchness (and the first half reads like a particularly sunny Raymond Queneau novel) and its feared opposite, the German; in the inevitable mechanics of a narrative that moves from the amiably inconsequential to the shocking. Maupassant's prose is as compellingly flat as ever, describing happiness and horror in the same uncluttered monotone.	2001-08-29
US	50178145	R2JLTES9I5F10M	0192814583	538550698	The Life and Death of King John (The World's Classics)	Books	3	8	12	N	N	One of Shakespeare's statelier plays.	the Oxford Shakespeare has been touted as 'a new conception' of Shakespeare, but is in fact merely an update of the cumbersome old Arden editions. Like these, 'King John' begins with a 100-page introduction, divided into 'Dates and Sources' (full of what even the editor admits is 'tedious' nit-picking of documentary evidence); 'The Text' (the usual patronising conjecture about misprints in the Folio edition and illiterate copyists); 'A Critical Introduction', giving a conventional, but illuminating guide to the drama, its status as a political play dealing with the thorny problem of royal succession, the contemporary legal ambiguities surrounding inheritance, the patterning of characters, the use of language (by characters as political manoeuvring, by Shakespeare to subvert them); and an account of 'King John' 'In the Theatre', its former popularity in the 18th and 19th century as a spectacular pageant, the play distorted for patriotic purposes, and its subsequent decline, presumably for the same reasons. The text itself is full of stumbling, often unhelpful endnotes - what students surely want are explanations of difficult words and figures, not a history of scholarly pedantry. The edition concludes with textual appendices.<BR>The play itself, as with most of Shakespeare's histories, is verbose, static and often dull. Too many scenes feature characters standing in a rigid tableau debating, with infinite hair-cavilling, issues such as the legitimacy to rule, the conjunction between the monarch's person and the country he rules; the finer points of loyalty. Most of the action takes place off stage, and the two reasons we remember King John (Robin Hood and the Magna Carta) don't feature at all. This doesn't usually matter in Shakespeare, the movement and interest arising from the development of the figurative language; but too often in 'King John', this is more bound up with sterile ideas of politics and history, than actual human truths. Characterisation and motivation are minimal; the conflations of history results in a choppy narrative. There are some startling moments, such as the description of a potential blood wedding, or the account of England's populace 'strangely fantasied/Possessed with rumours, full of idle dreams/Not knowing what they fear, but full of fear'. The decline of the king himself, from self-confident warrior to hallucinating madman, anticipates 'King Lear', while the scene where John's henchman sets out to brand the eyes of the pubescent Pretender, is is full of awful tension.<BR>P.S. Maybe I'm missing something, but could someone tell me why this page on 'King John' has three reviews of 'Timon of Athens'? Is somebody having a laugh?	2001-08-29
US	50178145	R221NA2J5OFSG7	0486268675	495815924	She Stoops to Conquer (Dover Thrift Editions)	Books	5	24	26	N	N	One of the comic jewels of English theatre.	Oliver Goldsmith may not have had the linguistic virtuosity or satiric audacity of his great contemporary, Richard Brinsley Sheridan, but 'She Stoops to Conquer' is one of the few highpoints in English drama between the Restoration and Oscar Wilde.  Ironically, in view of its satirising the slavish devotion to French fashions, the play is influenced by early 18th century French comedy: the plot is very similar to Marivaux's 'The Game of love and chance': two fathers arrange a marriage for their children; this paternal decree is severely shaken by disguises, misrecognitions and counter-plots.  The difference being, English comedy is always the funniest, and we get lots of marvellous words like 'obstropalous'.<br />In effect, this drama consists of characters staging dramas to get their way, which are spoiled by other dramas, e.g. Mr. Hardcastle decides his daughter will marry a man she never met, and arranges their meeting; Tony tells this prospective husband, Marlow, and his friend Hastings, that the gentleman's house they seek is a tavern; Kate disguises herself as a barmaid to woo the diffident Marlow.  The effect of all these conflicting dramas is to take a supposedly solid, class-based system, based on paternal and aristocratic power, and reveal it as a fragile one based on illusion, a series of masks and attitudes adopted to suit the required social context, where wrong directions can as easily derail as resolve the social order.  The best comedy here comes from characters mistaking the social context, as when Marlow treats his host and future father-in-law as a pesky inn-keeper.  Significantly, in this over-cultured milieu, most of the spanners in the works are thrown by the illiterate Tony.<br />In Goldsmith's world, there is no such thing as a 'natural', whole identity - character is divided by public and private roles, fragmented by clothing and ornaments, with passions dictated by fashions.  Goldsmith's benevolently cynical view of his century encompassesall its familiar tropes - the carousing squire rake; the social mobility; the marketplace of marriage; the refined bawdiness; the hints at the incipient decline of the aristocracy (where an old estate has degenerated into a plausible inn); the wars turned into legend from a safe distance.  Its teeming culture is catalogued too - sentimental novels, the love of theatre, the rise of Gothic fiction (marvellously parodied to the point where the mistress of the house is terrified of her own garden), Hogarth, caricature prints etc.	2001-08-22
US	50178145	R2W7X55ULTUHK5	0393967972	377046405	The Metamorphosis (Norton Critical Editions)	Books	5	46	52	N	N	This is how all classics should be treated.	For the reader new to Kafka as a writer, there is a lot of baggage to be thrown off: everything implied by the cliche 'Kafkaesque' we've gathered from films, other books and the like (alienation, angst, modern man and the Absurd, the terror of totalitarian bureaucracy, etc.); everything, in other words, that has made a caricature of an original vision.<br />So, for the first-time reader of Kafka, there are some pleasant surprises in 'the Metamorphosis'.  The novella is often very funny - Gregor's orientation to his condition (he enjoys running up the walls and hanging off the ceiling) and the reaction of his family and manager provoke some priceless farcical set-pieces.  It is a Gothic story - about a salesman who turns into a monstrous vermin, and the aghast reaction of his family; there are some unexpected frissons in the story we would normally expect from the horror genre.  It is a portrait of a complacent middle-class family in decline, a la Galsworthy, or a study of the artist in an impoverished family with a weak but aggressive father, like Joyce's 'Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man'.  There are even elments of sentimental melodrama in the way Kafka loads up the sympathy for his monster in the face of almost caricatured hostility - I found myself welling up once or twice.<br />This is not to diminish Kafka's dark and frightening vision, just to suggest how much of his art depends on play, with  narrative modes and genres, with narration, with reader's expectations.  The horror, anxiety, unease, if you like, is actually quite marginal on the surface - the oppressive vastness of his familiar bedroom as perceived by Gregor in his new form; the endless vista of an adjacent hospital.  It's under this surface that the true anxiety lies - the gaps in the narration, the unreliability of Gregor's perceptions and interpretations, the ambiguity of Kafka's language, the witholding and gradual unfolding of details.  There don't seem to be any mirrors in the Samsa household, but the story is full of mirror-like tableaux - the portrait of the lady in furs; the photo of Gregor as a young soldier; the image of domestic life viewed every evening by Gregor in darkness.<br />If only all classics were treated with the respect of this edition.  the translation is mostly smooth and fresh, with occasionally clumsy constructions and jarring Americanisms (are there really trolleys and foyers in Kafka's world?).  The critical apparatus provides endless intellectual nourishment - manuscript revisions revealing the precision of Kafka's writing; an account of the story's genesis, creation and background through letters, diaries and related Kafka works; and seven critical essays from perspectives as varied as feminism, psychoanalysis, new-historicism and linguistics, some infected by the usual blights of literary criticism (e.g. undigested globs of French theory making argument and prose impenetrable; distortion of text to produce biased interpretaions), but which insightfully open up the astonishing density and ambiguity of a 40-page fable, offering ingenious, mutually excluxive, even contradictory readings that are all very plausible, and yet ultimately miss Kafka's elusive enigma.ehold, but the story is full of mirror-like tableaux - the portrait of the lady in furs; the photo of Gregor as a young soldier; the image of domestic life viewed every evening by Gregor in darkness.<br />If only all classics were treated with the respect of this edition.  the translation is mostly smooth and fresh, with occasionally clumsy constructions and jarring Americanisms (are there really trolleys and foyers in Kafka's world?).  The critical apparatus provides endless intellectual nourishment - manuscript revisions revealing the precision of Kafka's writing; an account of the story's genesis, creation and background through letters, diaries and related Kafka works; and seven critical essays from perspectives as varied as feminism, psychoanalysis, new-historicism and linguistics, some infected by the usual blights of literary criticism (e.g. undigested globs of French theory making argument and prose impenetrable; distortion of text to produce biased interpretaions), but which insightfully open up the astonishing density and ambiguity of a 40-page fable, offering ingenious, mutually excluxive, even contradictory readings that are all very plausible, and yet ultimately miss Kafka's elusive enigma.	2001-08-16
US	50178145	R3VRRA85Y2RF2O	1557132860	542871075	Children of Clay (Sun & Moon Classics)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	A 20th c. 'Don Quixote'  - a big,fat, fantastic, comic novel	Raymond Queneau's works are generally circumscribed in scope, with a small cast of characters and restricted, usually Parisian settings.  Their vastness comes from a philosophical play with time, and a casual use of recondite allusion.  'Children of Clay', however,  is quite literally encyclopaedic.  In the early 1930s, Queneau compiled an anthology of 19th century literary lunatics (cranks, conspiracy theorists, alternative semioticians, cosmologists etc.), which failed to find a publisher.  This novel features a provincial, aristocratic headmaster who researches and compiles such an encyclopaedia, huge, dizzying chunks of which prop up the novel, hatstand versions of the universe's beginning jostling with paranoid accounts of what really happened in French history.<br />'Children of Clay' is many other things too.  It is a huge historical novel, set in the France of the late 1920s and early 30s, with the Stock Market Crash, the decline of the aristocracy and the giant industrialists, working class unrest, anti-Semitism, the rise of fascism.  The large dramatis personae include the Hachamoth family, the Jewish Baron and his extreme Catholic wife, her foppish younger brother, her beautiful daughters and religious zealot son; Clemence, their disfigured maid; the Gramignis, refugees from Fascist Italy; Robert Bossu, a barowner's son, convinced of his impending greatness in the new France; Chambernac himself, an inept sexual transgressor, who, in a reverse of the Faust story, forces a devil to sign a contract to help him complete his encyclopaedia.  <br />Mirroring his madmen's cosmologies, all these characters ultimately descend from one man, Claye, only glimpsed in one paragraph, committing suicide from a plane.  The novel is full of parodic Biblical allusions and restagings (the children of Claye are also the children of clay, i.e. all Mankind), as characters struggle to live in a violent, evil world that God has seemingly abdicated.  The novel ranges in space fromItaly to the English Channel, by way of the Riviera and Paris, and in time from the French Revolution  to the rise of European fascism; or, more precisely, from the creation of the world to, perhaps, its imminent demise.<br />'Children' is one of those huge, counter-encyclopaedias, like Burton's 'Anatomy of Melancholy', Swift's 'Tale of the Tub', Melville's 'Moby Dick' or Benjamin's 'Arcades', works that gather together masses of alternative knowledge, marginal, ephemeral, 'useless', trivial, rubbish, countering the encyclopaedic ambition to totalise and classify and explain life.  by focusing on what seems unimportant, even mad, these works are perversely never complete, spiralling endlessly, creating a counter-knowledge that can make life, the world, the universe, seem vertiginously new and inexhaustible.<br />There is so  much going on in 'Children', it might be overpowering if it wasn't written in crisp, sprightly, ironic, elliptical comic prose.  The novel is contemporary with Marcel Carne's poetic realist films that seemed to prevision the Fall of France, and it shares their profound pessimism, but instead of suffocating in dead ends, Queneau offers us a dazzling collage of possibilities, different ways of looking at the world, all bonkers, but as we try to find a way out of the mess produced by prevailing mindsets, than maybe we could do with a little madness.	2001-08-15
US	50178145	R8HPZNVU7USHY	0237749602	272634285	How the Other Half Loves (Evans drama library)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	A remarkable - and very funny - experiment with farce.	A definition of farce may include 'a manipulation of space in time' - that is, it depends on a precise patterning of characters' movements through a circumscribed space (rooms, entrances, exits etc.), mechanically timed.  You could say this about all theatre, but the peculiar thrill of farce arises from its mechanics, the choreography of this spatial and temporal movement.<br />Ayckbourn's masterly farce 'How the other half loves' (1970)manipulates time in space.  It centres on three middle-class couples of varying affluence: the Fosters, boss Frank and his glamorous wife Fiona; the young, impoverished Phillipses, Bob, Frank's bored employee and Teresa, sexually frustrated and limited to looking after the baby; and the Featherstones, William and Mary, an eccentric, socially inept couple, considered pathologically dull by everyone else.  <br />Fiona and Bob are having an affair; to appease their suspicious spouses, they pretend to have been comforting one of the fictionally cuckolded Featherstones, whom they barely know.  the Featherstones are invited to dinner parties by the other couples, and the usual farcical goings-on proliferate, mistaken identities and assumptions, misinterpreted motives, frustration leading hysteria and violence, lies leading to ever more extravagant lies, etc.<br />So far, so normal.  Ayckbourn's innovation is to place the distinct spaces of the Fosters' and Phillips' homes on the same stage, like consecutive slices of cake, producing the jarring spectacle of characters living miles apart moving in the same room.  This results in the astonishing achievement of Act 2, where two dinner parties on separate nights are played in the same time and space, the supposedly dull Featerstones manoeuvring backwards and forwards through time to uproarious, and possibly Borgesian, effect.<br />What marks this achievement as special is that Ayckbourn still manages to produce a tear-streamingly entertaining farce of traditional pleasures.  The structure alsohas a thematic effect, connecting characters and putting them in collision, while dramatising the arbitrariness and breakdown of marriage, and, by extension, the kind of society bolstered by it.  This is very much a play of the 1970s, where the permissiveness and experimentation of the 60s finally impinged on the 'respectable' middle classes, with destabilising results.	2001-08-15
US	50178145	R3IWK8M2HOD3F5	0070457093	58813662	Details of a Sunset And Other Stories	Books	4	6	6	N	N	A guide to both Berlin and Nabokov's art.	I think it's a shame the 'Collected Stories', with its dull chronological order and unimaginative completeness, has come to supersede the four volumes specially prepared by Nabokov in the 1970s, which were, as his son and co-translator Dmitri says, 'painstakingly assorted and orchestrated by Nabokov using various criteria - theme, period, atmosphere, uniformity and variety'.  the stories were translated with these volumes in mind, and to break up their order is to risk destroying Nabokov's carefully calculated voice.<br />The stories in 'Details of a Sunset', written between 1924 and 1935, mostly centre on the Russian emigre experience in Berlin Nabokov himself was living, as he struggled to write his first novels.  It is a world of pale, starving writers, small, shabby rooms, dark, streetlamp-lit streets, jerky trams; a world in which present love affairs are bleak and deadly, and ideal ones are ruptured by misunderstanding or death; where reunions with lost family members are painfully inopportune.  <br />this could all sound oppressively glum; what makes these stories sparkle is Nabokov's aggressively alert consciousness, his ability to literally light up the dreary by illuminating tiny, irrelevant details that combine to create magical tableaux - a focus on the material that produces an exciting spiritual rush.<br />Two stories here, 'A Bad Day' and 'Orache', would be later reworked in Nabokov's miraculous memoir 'Speak, Memory', and already the Russian's charged nostalgia exerts a magnetic pull.  'A Busy Man' is a little masterpiece about a hack writer who half-recollects the recollection of a childhood dream that may or may not have foretold his death on his 33rd birthday; 'A slice of life' is a sordid fait diver shot through with sympathy (and a rare excursion by the author into female first person narrative).  'A Guide to Berlin' is possibly the best story he wrote, a cartography not of famous landmarks, but the more hauntingly insistent humdrum - pipes waiting by the road to be dug in; dancing in a cafe; a huge tear on an actress' face in the cinema.	2001-08-09
US	50178145	R2Z0WEB82NC5YD	0486270696	629322118	The Mysterious Stranger and Other Stories (Dover Thrift Editions)	Books	4	27	31	N	N	Three supreme masterpieces, one ornery let-down.	this volume spans the length of Mark Twain's career, and contains some of his most famous shorter works, which all centre on the subject of Money.  'The Celebrated jumping frog of Calaveras County' is the most perfect tall tale in the English language, three flawless pages about Jim Smiley and the bizarre sidelines he would investigate to win a bet, any bet, written in a miraculous mid-19th century California vernacular.  If that isn't enough, Twain tops it with the best closing paragraph of any work I have ever read ever.<br />'The $1,000,000 Bank note' is almost surreal, or Marxist, the story of a derelict made an unwitting guinea pig by two elderly millionaires, curious to see what would happen to an honest but poor man in the possession of such an impractible note.  The frightening fetishistic power of currency structures a somewhat creepily benevolent narrative, and the opening paragraphs audaciously cram a novel's worth of misfortune.<br />'The Man who corrupted Hadleyburg' is the masterpiece here, at once an unforgiving morality tale about the temptation of money on an incorruptible town, and a satire on the crippling effect of bogus social respectability.  Twain's irony is at its most relentless here, mixing anger at elite hypocrisy with distaste for the savage mob mentality.  The scenes of public justice are hilarious but terrifying; the unnamed man taking monstrous revenge on a whole town for a personal slight, exposing its shams by an experiment, could well be Twain himself.<br />The same could be said of the hero of his novella 'The Mysterious Stranger', Twain's last, posthumously published work.  In this, an angel, Satan, nephew of his infernal namesake, comes to a late 16th century Austrian mountain village and systematically exposes the murderous herd instincts, moral deceptions and shabby pretensions of the human condition.  Everything - war, religion, society, justice, family, human aspiration, childhood innocence - is ground down with misanthropic, sub-Swiftian satire.<br />'Stranger' is not an easy book to like.  As an historical novel, it is an utter failure, with no attempt to understand the mindset, never mind the language, idiom or customs of an alien culture.  As an allegory for the contemporary America in which Twain was writing, the book is indispensible, insightful, brave, bracing, honest, incredibly prescient, but monotonous, flatly written and exhausting.  As a supernatural fable, the book has little sense of wonder or of the unknown, but in its story of a devil wreaking subversive havoc on a socially repressive culture by playing on their hypocritical terms, 'Stranger' does look forward to Bulgakov's more successful 'The Master and Margarita'.sub-Swiftian satire.<br />'Stranger' is not an easy book to like.  As an historical novel, it is an utter failure, with no attempt to understand the mindset, never mind the language, idiom or customs of an alien culture.  As an allegory for the contemporary America in which Twain was writing, the book is indispensible, insightful, brave, bracing, honest, incredibly prescient, but monotonous, flatly written and exhausting.  As a supernatural fable, the book has little sense of wonder or of the unknown, but in its story of a devil wreaking subversive havoc on a socially repressive culture by playing on their hypocritical terms, 'Stranger' does look forward to Bulgakov's more successful 'The Master and Margarita'.	2001-08-02
US	50178145	R1C92URWLGJDYV	0715610333	124024294	Remote People	Books	4	12	12	N	N	Waugh travel book is essential background for the novels.	Evelyn Waugh compares his 1930 trip to Abyssinia to cover Haile Salessie's coronation to 'Alice in Wonderland', but there's something 'Brigadoon' about his whole journey to alien Africa, where intolerable heat, unreliable timetables and capricious inhabitants seem eminently preferable to the noisy social inanity back in England, so familiar to us from his classic comic novels.<br />Waugh divides his African travel book into two sections (one dealing with the Abyssinian trip, the other with an extended tour through Zanzibar, Kenya, Uganda, the Congo and South Africa), and three nightmares, vividly detailing the various, accumulative problems that beset the traveller, such as unhelpful officials and lousy food.  Waugh is a much more sympathetic voyager than the more heroic likes of Chatwin or Raban - his whining about lack of bath water or pesky mosquitos is more refreshing than some writers' spiritual journeys.<br />Despite his attempts at objectivity, 'Remote people' is written, as we might expect, from a very jaundiced viewpoint.  Waugh's experiences aren't really 'Alice' at all, simply a concatenation of minor mishaps, local eccentricites and cultural differences in very poor countries that only a very insulated Englishman would blow up and find surreal.  Some of Waugh's ill-advised political theorising, especially his unconvincing defence of the notorious white settlers in Kenya's Happy Valley, make for distinctly ncomfortable reading, although one is grateful for Waugh's evident and lucid integrity to his own beliefs.  It is surprising in a book of 1931 to see how many of the issues raised by post-colonial theory were already being painfully argued about.<br />Of course, we don't read Waugh for politics or sympathy to foreigners.  Although written in a more descriptive, less dialogue-driven style than the novels, we find the same account of bewildered, uprooted Modern Man faced with the problems (and comedy) of the simple fact of other people (American professors absurdly reverent of Ethiopian religious practice; Seventh Day Adventists prone to seasickness; colonial magnates encouraging staff and guests to climb life-threatening volcanos etc.).  The travelogue is less interesting than the rich set-pieces - the Abyssinian coronation; the bathetic trip to an ancient monastary; a rooftop cinema where the audience wilt sleepily in the sun; the efforts of native scouts to light a fire; a berserk ship journey down river with the captain trying to shoot game from his cabin, his passengers leaping off to search for any hits.	2001-07-26
US	50178145	R3KSPB87QXBDLQ	0671722794	370153288	A Midsummer Night's Dream	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Best read by moonlight.	Shakespeare's sublime play, both romantic comedy and anti-comedy, pits three levels of Athenian society  - leader/father; dependent children; workers - against each other, and the mirroring disruptions of fairy land.  Rigidly Draconian Athens - in which a young woman must chose between an arranged marriage, a nunnery or death - gives way to a magical midsummer forest, where authoritarian caprice still reigns, but has the opposite effect, a profoundly disturbing (but, for the audience, liberating) series of metamorphosing identities, forms, species, minds.<br />Unlike most Shakespearian comedies, 'Dream' is still genuinely funny, its best moments depending on visual jokes, such as a fairy queen becoming besotted with an ass.  Dreary old Athens may seem to win the day, smugly mocking the marvellously funny travesty of high tragedy by Bottom and his associates, but this very assault on values engrained in categories such as 'high tragedy' and 'low comedy', and the invincible dream-power of the fairies, will not be cast aside.  More than any Shakespearean play, this is the one that can burst open your mind, if you'll let it.	2001-07-26
US	50178145	R8IMPNTG838RH	0140437509	134638487	Three Men in a Boat and Three Men on the Bummel	Books	4	10	12	N	N	A patchy, but painfully hilarious, masterpiece.	'Three men in a boat' is not a perfect book because it bears the traces of Jerome's original high-mindedly conception, an historical tour of the Thames.  too often the uproarious comedy - generally arising from the inflation of minor iritations to epic catastrophes - is tripped by lumbering, perfunctory descriptions of the scene and its historical associations.  The latter aren't all bad though - sometimes set up for bathetic effect; at others, the reverie of a romanticallly vivid past and a pure geography free from the industrial blight of Victorian Britain, exerts a powerful, nearly mystical pull.  Frequently, the general self-confidence of the narrative voice is undermined by the obsession with death, other people and the fragility of identity and status - one terrifyingly comic sequence, in which Harris gets lost in the labyrinthine garden of Hampton Park, has a nonsense-pushing-into-terror worthy of Lewis Carroll.  <br />there are three genuine joys in this book - that narrative voice (imagine a middle-class wannabe Bertie Wooster with pretensions, undeservedly complacent yet ultimately generous, filtered with the casual loquaciousness of Mark Twain); a portrait of late-19th century English life and leisure from a perspective we rarely see (Lewis' introduction is full of fascinating historical background); and the creation of Montmorency the dog, the one fully fledged character - malevolent, cynical, contemptuous, and, when faced with an unflappable cat, a big jessie.	2001-07-26
US	50178145	R1LWOAOD3FTHQT	0851703186	395160969	Went the Day Well? (BFI Film Classics)	Books	3	4	4	N	N	A very English study of a very English film.	Penelope Houston is the King Canute of film criticism, the long-time editor of British journal 'Sight and Sound' who in the late 50s/early 60s tried to hold back the critical tide of French ideas and formalism, especially the auteur theories developed at Cahiers de Cinema (by Truffaut, Rivette et al), which insisted that film be judged according to purely cinematic criteria, rather than the literary ones of plot, theme and character espoused by Miss Houston.<br />It is characteristic, therefore, that she should choose as her BFI Classic, of all the 360 greatest films ever made, a modest wartime British thriller she admits is superficial and often clumsily made.  She is less interested in the fascinating tensions of this story about an attempted Nazi invasion of an archetypal English village (e.g. the pervading surrealism brought by the Brazilian former avant-garde director Cavalcanti; the conflict between different kinds of Englishness; the effect on decent people of the need for brutal violence), than the empirical and prosaic details of the production - she delights in searching out archival papers about script development, budgets and the like.  <br />What this study provides is an interesting look at how British cinema functioned in its supposed Golden Age (often haphazardly), especially in a war situation, where the demands of propaganda and censorship had to be met, effectively showing how the film's many hands (producer Michael Balcon, director Cavalcanti, the scriptwriters, source writer Graham Greene, the Ministry of Information etc.), and external pressures, created this oddly lopsided work.  This is probably why 'Went the day well?', dismissed by contemporary reviewers because of its implausibility and carelessness, now dates better than its more celebrated contemporaries - because of its sheer, liberating unexpectedness.  Perhaps Miss Houston is justified in not focusing on 'Great' directors after all.	2001-07-26
US	50178145	RD9GQDWFBP95I	0793534798	679959417	Iolanthe, or the Peer & the Peri: Vocal Score with Dialogue	Books	5	5	5	N	N	One of the great Victorian satires.	Few opera/operetta librettos read very well on their own (of course, they weren't intended to).  In the case of Gilbert and Sullivan, the exercise is not only sheer pleasure, but almost a necessity; such is the speed of the monologues and intricacy of the ensembles that much of Gilbert's brilliant verbal wit gets lost.<br />'Iolanthe' is one of his most enrapturing confections, the story of a shepherd, Strephon, half-fairy half-mortal, whose mother, Iolanthe, is a disgraced sprite (it is forbidden for fairies to marry mortals), and whose father (unbeknownst to either) is the Lord Chancellor who won't let him marry his ward, Phyllis, darling of the Lords.  <br />The material may be fantastic, the setting pastoral, but the satire in this 1882 work is spot-on contemporary, with jibes at the Irish problem, the uselessness of the House of Lords (who as a caste are as close to fantasy as the fairies, so it is no surprise they exchange the House of Peers for the House of Peris), and the ruling class' fear of democracy and universal suffrage.  A most delightful fancy has the fairies take over Parliament in the shape of Strephon, whose every whim unites the notoriously factional Liberal and Conservative in his favour.<br />this is Gilbert at his funniest - the verbal contortions he undergoes in the search for rhymes break all linguistic boundaries, and his view of the fragility of centuries-old English institutions prescient.  There is an extraordinary patter song by the Lord Chancellor which shows the man embodying Law and Constitution plunging into nightmare, the culmination of a libretto in which identities and forms, as well as seemingly irrevocable laws and customs, are repeatedly broken down or metamorphosed.	2001-07-19
US	50178145	R2FQ4IJN3KCE5Z	0851703682	661356109	Lolita (BFI Film Classics)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Corliss tackles the big boys, Nabokov + Kubrick. The winner?	Stanley Kubrick's 1962 'Lolita' is unusual among the 360 films chosen by the British Film Institute as Classics in that it is not really a 'classic' at all, if we mean by that term a flawless work of art that transcends its time and culture, and is open to new readings from succeeding generations.  'Lolita' is considered an entertaining compromise, a film that cannot be called a true interpretation of Nabokov's notorious novel about a middle-aged Professor's rapturous lust for a prepubescent girl, because of censorship restrictions and the impossibility of capturing the book's essence on screen, it's narrative voice.<br />Richard Corliss doesn't try to counter critical consensus, concluding, after listing all the ways it fudges Nabokov,  that 'Lolita' is 'a very good film', damning faint praise for a director usually spoken of in reverent superlatives.  Corliss argues that 'Lolita' came too early for a still-young Kubrick who, a couple of years later in an increasingly liberal decade, might have made a freer, truer adaptation.  Nevertheless, he sees Lolita as crucial in Kubrick's development, a signpost towards an aesthetic integrity away from the compromises of his last film, 'Spartacus'.<br />Corliss' monograph is a highly enjoyable study that gives equal prominece to Nabokov as Kubrick.  Indeed, it is structured in imitation of Nabokov's other famous masterpiece, 'Pale Fire', with a poem 'Pale Film' and commentary.  there's no overall thesis beyond the one outlined above, just a fascinating patchwork of insights concerning Nabokov (his life; 'Lolita' and his other work; his ambiguous, often contradictory response to cinema in general and Kubrick's film in particular; his unfilmable screenplay); Kubrick (his biography, poised before becoming the 'Stanley Kubrick' of legend; his themes; 'Lolita''s position in his oeuvre); the close connections between two seemingly disparate artists - their megalomaniacal conception of their art; their fondness for hermetic works about mad criminals.<br />Corliss' insights in detail are more persuasive than his general interpretations.  Part of the problem is his critical conservatism - despite his protestations to the contrary, he reads Nabokov's book like a 19th century, character-driven, thematically coherent, realistic novel (when, on a textual level, it is the uncorroborated confession of a sick paedophile and murderer, and, on an ontological level, the masterpiece of  a notoriously leg-pulling formalist); he reads Kubrick with little reference to cinematic form.  This is fatal in the cases of two artists famous for retaining the pleasures of narrative while ludically (sic?) upending them.  <br />This failure results in an undervaluing of Kubrick's film, which may be Nabokov-lite, but is full of its own tricks.  Corliss, unlike most critics, notices the disparity between the two framing Castle Quilty scenes (where Humbert comes to kill his nemesis), but doesn't seem to think this radically altars our appreciation of the film (I think it does, and is an exciting pointer to Kubrick's masterpiece, 'The Shining').  <br />In any case, Corliss' study is one of the better BFI Classics' books, written in the style of diluted David Thomson (whom he thanks in the Acknowledgements), with some neat character sketches of the cast, and a gallant, long overdue defence of Sue Lyon.  And, mercifully, NO tedious personal reminiscenes about the author's first visit to the local fleapit where nice Mr. Winthorpe bought him an ice cream.	2001-07-11
US	50178145	R33W2DPL4SBK07	0851704816	246717770	Wild Strawberries (BFI Film Classics)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Fine appreciation of a once-beloved masterpiece.	This is a model for how these BFI Classics monographs should be written, forswearing padding, personal reminiscences and vague ideas in favour of good old English empirical analysis and contextualisation.  <br />'Wild Strawberries', the story of an old Professor taking a long car journey which becomes a psychic journey into his past selves and failures, is directed by the genius of one Swedish cinematic generation, Ingmar Bergman, and stars the pioneering genius of the first, Victor Sjostrom.  The Frenches begin by charting an instructive potted history of Swedish cinema and the place of these masters in it.  <br />They offer a synopsis of the film full of insightful textual reading and an invaluable explanation of symbols or motifs, the emotional resonance of which Swedish audiences take for granted (e.g. the film is accurately translated as 'The Wild Strawberry Place', a real locale, but also an emotional metaphor analagous to Proust's madeleine).  These don't radically alter accepted readings of the film, but quietly enrich them with detail.  <br />The authors suggestively point to Bergman's many cultural influences, the films of Sjostrom himself, the plays of Strindberg, the paintings of Larsson and Munch, for example.  They conclude with a history of Bergman's fluctuating reputation, contemporary critical responses (domestic and foreign), the director's iconic international status in the early 60s, the begrudgery bordering on hostility he suffered at home, the subsequent decline of his influence and legacy (among other things, the book is a tacit elegy for the death of European arthouse cinema).  They usefully position Bergman in the Sweden of the 1950s, useful because he is a 'Great Director' rarely considered in a social context.  <br />At no point do the Frenches intrude themselves on the study, offer reckless theories, or hyperbolise the film's worth - their profound love of 'Wild Strawberries' is evident from the time and careful attention they have lavished on watching it.  They communicate this love to a grateful reader who feels that watching a Bergman film, no matter how you interpret it, is an enriching experience worth having.	2001-07-11
US	50178145	R2PIK14FXHBIAF	0811206459	489213840	The Sunday of Life	Books	4	8	9	N	N	I don't know Hegel, but I know what I like.	Like most Raymond Queneau novels, 'The Sunday of Life' is a seemingly inconsequential novel that suddenly opens up onto a philosophical vortex.<br />Valentin Bru is a retiring private soldier in Bordeaux, a veteran of colonial warfare singled out for marriage by a middle-aged merceress whom he has never met.  Bru's sole desire is to be a street sweeper, but soon inherits a frame-selling shop in Paris.  An earlier visit to the city on a honeymoon he had to take on his own because of his wife's concern for business, saw him engaged in farcical adventures ending up coincidentally at the funeral of his mother-in-law's younger lover.  Now in his shop, he becomes a kind of confessional for the local traders, passing on the information to his wife who, unknown to him, has become a clairvoyant.<br />So far, so funny.  The novel proceeds with Queneau's usual gorgeous style, that decaptively loose mix of vernacular and circumlocution that creates comedy by over-verbalising the banal, or pitting his hero's innocence and good faith against the cynical, or customs he simply doesn't understand.<br />Soon, however, time intrudes, as Valentin acts on a desire to 'trap' time, to follow the long hand of a clock without losing himself in reveries or distractions.  The title derives from Hegel, whose spirit haunts the book, and refers, apparently, to a point where history ends and everyday is like Sunday, a timeless realm of pure consciousness.  Or something.  I don't know anything about Hegel, you'd have to look it up.  Certainly, there are at least two strands of time in the novel, the world of the late 30s, Nazism, the impending Fall of France, and the seemingly detached present tense Valentin seems to float through.  this is reinforced by a plot with  fortune tellers and a hero who predicts a coming war in a 1952 novel that knows he's right.<br />Philosophers will probably enjoy all this - the rest of us can relish the simpler pleasures: linguistic play; deadpan funny characters; deadpan silly, almost irrelevant comic situations; deadpan dialogue; a sunny love of Paris.eadpan silly, almost irrelevant comic situations; deadpan dialogue; a sunny love of Paris.	2001-07-11
US	50178145	R3TCV783GZ0GDV	1903436044	43217624	As You Like It: 2nd Ed. (Arden Shakespeare)	Books	3	9	16	N	N	A Shakespeare play that doesn't read very well at all.	'As you like it' is one of those Shakespearean plays that is considered 'great' by critics, but never really found true popular acclaim, perhaps due to the absence of charismatic characters (the romantic hero is particularly wet) or compelling dilemmas.<br />It shares many features with the great comedies - the notion of the forest as a magic or transformative space away from tyrannical society ('A Midsummer night's dream'); the theme of unrequited love and gender switching from 'Twelfth night'; the exiled Duke and his playful daughter from 'The Tempest'.  But these comparisons only point to 'AYLI''s comparative failure (as a reading experience anyway) - it lacks the magical sense of play of the first; the yearning melancholy of the second; or the elegiac complexity of the third.<br />It starts off brilliantly with a first act dominated by tyrants: an heir who neglects his younger brother, and a Duke who resents the popularity of his exiled brother's daughter (Rosalind).  there is an eccentric wrestling sequence in which a callow youth (Orlando) overthrows a giant.  Then the good characters are exiled to Arden searching for relatives and loved ones.<br />Theoretically, this should be good fun, and you can see why post-modernist critics enjoy it, with its courtiers arriving to civilise the forest in the language of contemporary explorers, and the gender fluidity and role-play; but, in truth, plot is minimal, with tiresomely pedantic 'wit' to the fore, especially when the melancholy scholar-courtier Jacques and Fool Touchstone are around, with the latter's travesties of classical learning presumably hilarious if you're an expert on Theocritus and the like.<br />As an English pastoral, 'AYLI' doesn't approach Sidney's 'Arcadia' - maybe it soars on stage.  (Latham's Arden edition is as frustrating as ever, with scholarly cavilling creating a stumbling read, and an introduction which characteristically neuters everything that makes Shakespeare so exciting and challenging))	2001-07-05
US	50178145	R3GWTNE0ZL16IF	0851703917	669742166	The Seventh Seal (BFI Film Classics)	Books	3	6	7	N	N	Rigid series format inhibits a full study of Bergman classic	This is another rather disappointing entry in the BFI Classics series, a padded look at one of European cinema's most famous totems, Bergman's 'The Seventh Seal', that medieval allegory of plague, faith, doubt, death, God and chess.  <br />It is disappoint because it promises so much but doesn't deliver.  The opening chapter, 'Art and Religion', looks at Bergman's attempts to return Art, its creation and reception, to the condition of medieval craftsmanship and faith, when to create was synonymous with worship.  Bragg, an acclaimed novelist and arts broadcaster (he made a film about Bergman in 1978) has recently produced two major series on religious subjects, but any hope for a serious tackling of this aspect in Bergman's work, and 'The Seventh Seal' in particular, is quickly jettisoned in favour of less demanding chapters on Bragg's first exposure to cinema and Bergman (the usual 'alternative to Hollywood' stuff), and the importance of Bergman's childhood (which is obvious to anyone who's seen a Bergman film, especially 'Fanny and Alexander'; although it's alarming to discover the young Bergman's obsession with Hitler, for whom his stern pastor father was a dead ringer).  <br />Another chapter deals with the genesis of the film in a play Bergman wrote for an acting school, but fails to analyse the way Bergman, in this and all his work, systematically uses theatre and acting as a metaphor.  <br />What is especially disappointing is that the final chapter, a brief synopsis of the film, is brilliant, full of casual asides that are actually dazzling shards of critical insight.  Too late, Bragg reveals he has the measure of this dark, enigmatic, unnervingly comic film (one actually dismissed by most Bergmanophiles as superficial and uncharacteristic, but Bragg doesn't mention this) - Bragg's intelligence is dimmed by the rigid format of the series.	2001-07-04
US	50178145	R1G7BTW2UGL53X	1852241004	881196223	The Coastguard's House/La Casa Dei Doganieri: Selected Poems	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Very, very intense.	For a poet considered one of the three greatest of the century, and a Nobel winner to boot, Eugene Montale's poems, especially the early, famous ones that make up the bulk of this volume, can be very formulaic.  They follow the same pattern each time, an evocation of a land- or  sea-scape conjured up in a couple of evocatively chosen images; a natural force, like a storm, or rain, descending on it, threatening to destroy it (often symbolising fascism, you feel, but Montale is never that crude); sometimes the musings of the human actors (often there is no such presence); and finally, a leap from this vividly concrete world into the metaphysical, the void, the speculative, whatever you want to call it.  Calvino has called this the 'something behind a concrete wall'.  <br />Another Calvino essay is called 'Montale's cliff', and this is a good description of the poetry - the reader is invited to walk along the solid ground of Montale's natural observation, and than make the philosophical jump.  It's a jump, I'm afraid, that often eludes me, and the close of a Montale poem usually makes me feel baffled, lost and stupid, which is probably the point.  But the obsessively repetitive nature descriptions have a dense simplicity and overwhelming power, while 'Times at Bellosguardo', which is like the whole of Proust compressed into a single poem, is now one of a handful of my favourite poems.<br />Jeremy Reed, himself a major poet, has called his translations 'versions', attempts to fuse with the original to create something now.  He says this will save the enigmatic spirit of a poetry that would be deadened by pedantic transliteration.  All translators say this, of course, and while Reed's work here is the only translation I have ever read to have the toughness and integrity of original verse, the clear differences between it and the original make me wish a literal version had been offered, as footnotes perhaps, so we could see how Reed came to his 'version'.  That process would have been exciting.	2001-06-28
US	50178145	R2HHZW809P37Q4	0573681902	832875396	Happy End: A Melodrama With Songs (French's Musical Library)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Brecht-Weill's most underrated work is also their best.	Overshadowed by the two masterpieces that sandwiched it ('The Threepenny Opera' and 'The Rise and Fall of Mahogony'), Brecht-Weill's 'Happy End' is generally dismissed by Brecht scholars as 'inadequate' (following the repudiation by the playwright himself), rushed as a profit-seeking sequel to the spectacularly popular 'Threepenny' Its premiere was a bourgeois-baiting farrago, and the show humiliatingly closed after two days.  its importance today lies as a source for some of the greatest songs written in the 20th century, including 'The Bilbao Song', Surabaya Johnny' and 'The song of Mandalay'.<br />'Happy End' was cobbled together from a variety of sources (Shaw, Sheldon, crime serials etc.), but officially credited, for copyright reasons, to an non-existent short story by the non-existent Dorothy Lane.  It finds Brecht in blithely playful mode, with a suprememly silly story, set in a mythical Chicago of 1919, about a gangster falling for a Salvation Army preacher, framed against an even more improbable backdrop of failed robberies carried out by Runyonesque goons (although they predate the American by nearly a decade), led by a sinister Japanese doctor, The Governor (in a part written for Peter Lorre), and a mysterious lady of disguises, The Fly.  <br />the play is a festive mixture of menace, satire and farce, with the gangster plot spilling into the Sally Army one, and vice versa, each making the other ridiculous.  The play makes brilliantly inventive use of slides, film, snickeringly ironic intertitles and a multi-level stage defining the two realms - the play's funniest scene has The Governor breaking into an SA meeting to murder an errant hood, before leading the faithful in song, conducting with his Browning.  An absurd conclusion full of daft coincidences, and a two-fingers at capitalists, and you have wonderful entertainment Brechtians shouldn't be so sniffy about (especially if you have Weill's glorious score beside you - jaunty, melancholy, parodic, exotic, disturbing: surely his best?).<br />This translation by Michael Feingold is a 'loose' adaptation which played on Broadway (with Meryl Streep and Christopher Lloyd) and the West End (Bob Hoskins) in the 1970s.  Whatever of Brecht is missing, his cherishably flat, cynically comic tone is beautifully captured.	2001-06-21
US	50178145	R212G9EZ2GETFS	0916583406	945062416	Pierrot Mon Ami	Books	4	15	16	N	N	A very important book in the development of modern fiction.	'Pierrot mon ami' was written around the same time as Celine's 'Guignol's Band', and, like that controversial classic, features a passive innocent on the margins of society, with carnies, circus acts, petty ex-criminals, mad artists - at one point, like Ferdinand, Pierrot becomes an assistant to a fake fakir.<br />'Pierrot' has slightly more reference to the Occupation than Queneau's other novels in the period - a fire razing a giant amusement arcade is said to have been started by one of the attractions, burning chairoplanes; an uproarious journey with a boar and a chimp is arguably a figure for anti-Semitism; a bottle of Vichy water is pronounced disgusting.  <br />Another point of reference might be Sartre's famous short story 'The Wall'.  Pierrot's imprisonment may be more metaphorical than actual - he is condemned to walk the same streets every day; on the one occasion he leaves, the rest of the book's cast go with him, while the strangers he meet used to work in the area - but it provokes the same Nietzchean laughter.<br />I point this out to show how much 'Pierrot' is of its time - Queneau is often dismissed for refusing to 'engage'.  In any case, 'Pierrot' is a supremely anti-Nazi book, with its shifting perspectives, its formal games, its narrative  and semantic gaps, its instability of character, refusing the reader the reassurance of fixity or authority.  <br />But if 'Pierrot' is of its time, it's also ahead of it.  Together with Nabokov's 'The Real life of Sebastian Knight' and Borges' Ficciones, Queneau was at this moment pioneering anti-detective fiction, that genre later populated by Pynchon, Calvino, Eco, Sciascia et al, where the conventional rules of the detective story are invoked (a mystery, investigation), but its ideological function is displaced (resolution, restoration of social order).  <br />'Pierrot' is full of mysteries - who was the woman Jojo Mouilliminche died for?  Who was the Paldovian prince whose tomb Mouzzenergues faithfully curates?  Who burned the Uni-Park where philosophers pay and brawl to see brief glimpses of female flesh, the hero is sporadically employed, and where he meets the boss's daughter who will sleep with everyone but him (well, he is a pierrot)?  Are these things connected?  There is a proliferation of clues, coincidences and patterns, but, perhaps because of the Occupation, there is less faith in the restorative powers of the genre.  <br />Instead of fixing things in their proper place, 'Pierrot' is a book that celebrates play - every character is in some way connected to performance, and their every appearance is like a 'bit' or 'act' on the novel's stage.	2001-06-20
US	50178145	R3SYYO8ZDPY8RD	0460874926	740804653	Aspern Papers (Everyman's Library)	Books	5	14	16	N	N	Short sharp Henry James shocker.	Such is his facility with the essentials of theatre - concentrated narrative action; lengthy, dramatic scenes of dialogue; vivid characterisation; pointed use of interior space, exits and entrances, and the revealing image - you wonder why James failed as a playwright.  <br />Of course, there is a defining element of James' art that is impossible in the theatre - narration.  The nameless narrator of 'The Aspern Papers' is one of the greatest monsters in James' teeming gallery of inglorious masculinity - the editor of a revered American literary poet, who tries to wheedle important documents from a celebrated lover, the now-decrepit Juliana, by installing himself as a lodger, and flattering her aging spinster niece.  Like most James heroes, who treat life like a selfish game, he has no idea what emotional havoc he is wreaking on the woman.  <br />The tale has all the drive and tantalising delay of a crime story - the hero is both detective and criminal, and the suspenseful climax suggests what a great genre writer James could have been.  As with Stendhal, just as exciting are the intricate, agonising dialogues between the narrator and the niece, each wildly misunderstanding the other.  <br />But if 'Aspern' is a crime story, than the the criminal is of the order of Freddie Montgomery in Banville's 'The Book of Evidence', a brilliant, charming, frighteningly amoral man, whose check of social scruples is dicarded with shocking ease.  His seemingly over-detailed account is full of gaps, self-defence, self-pity, evasion, vagueness, misremembering, disarming honesty and wild misinterpreations of others' characters and motives.  He is a man who can't see beyond his own narrow goal, behind whom we always sense an unseen, all-seeing eye.  <br />He is the forerunner to a second modern anti-hero, 'Pale Fire''s Charles Kinbote, another literary editor whose devotion to his subject has become mad and murderous.  In a Victorian age full of cant about the ennobling power of art, James asserts, disturbingly, the opposite - repeated exposure to sublime poetry (and the book is full of ironic references to religion and glorious war) has only made the narrator emotinally dead, unable to respond to the humanity of others.  This 'portrait' of an aging muse, malevolent and concupiscent is a stark warning to literary idealisers, and a sad study of human decline, but should also be seen as a reflection of the narrator's own desires.  <br />'Aspern' is incidentally THE great Venice story, its watery decay somehow seeping through the narrator's blind egotism.	2001-06-20
US	50178145	R2ZYV2QO2H5BIE	0140444424	878492956	The Divine Comedy, Vol. II: Purgatory	Books	3	9	15	N	N	Bit of a slog after Hell.	By its very title, 'The Divine comedy' announces its theological purpose.  For those not so inclined, the 'Inferno' offered many subsidiary pleasures - compelling narrative drive (both in the adventure of two men descinding into hell, and in the stories of the people they meet); an overpowering visual sense, both in the grand design of Hell's geography and the plan of its punishments, and in the individual details of the sinner's torments; and the endearing characterisation of the heroes, Virgil the stern, noble guide, and Dante, the clumsy, gossipy Everyman.<br />'Purgatory' has fewer of these delights.  Here, it is impossible to avoid the doctrine.  Every vast visual set-piece (the Angel fighting off the snake in the Valley of the Princes; the Holy Pageant that stuns the Pilgrim in Eden, complete with griffin-drawn chariot; the masque involving violence to said chariot by eagles, foxes, seven-headed monsters and giants) are all so allegorically pre-determined, each feature a religious symbol, that they lack the dramatic force that would have made their images truly poetic.<br />The plan of Purgatory - the AntePurgatory where those who left repentance to the last moment must wait; the mountain itself, where seven terraces represent the Deadly Sins to be purged; the crowning Earthly Paradise, or Eden, the gateway to Heaven - bears no real comparison, for the reader, to Hell: one's sympathy naturally inclines towards the eternally damned, and one almost resents the complaints of the saved complaining of their discomforture.  The stories told the Pilgrim are also of a lesser order - perhaps proving pure evil to be more (aesthetically) attractive than contrition.<br />There are some moments when genuine terror intrudes - the visions of violation and tempting lust dreamt by the Pilgrim; the baptism of fire he must pass before entering Eden; the show-trial with Beatrice; while tortuous similes and evocations of nature are framed in poetry of intricate beauty (see Borges remarkable essay on the infinite metaphor in Canto 1).<br />Mark Musa, like most American annotators, has not heeded the lessons of Charles Kinbote, and his commentary to 'Purgatory' is almost loopily overwritten.  He is an amiable, enthusiastic and informative guide, and if his translating choices are sometimes questionable, he has the grace to offer other alternatives.  His explanation of the purpose of each image or scene makes it easier to follow the poem with greater understanding (if not necessarily enjoyment).  But because he concentrates on every line with such minute detail, he frequently misses the wider design, and so, when he is puzzled by lines that don't fit his view of the Comedy, he has a tendency to blame Dante rather than himself.remarkable essay on the infinite metaphor in Canto 1).<br />Mark Musa, like most American annotators, has not heeded the lessons of Charles Kinbote, and his commentary to 'Purgatory' is almost loopily overwritten.  He is an amiable, enthusiastic and informative guide, and if his translating choices are sometimes questionable, he has the grace to offer other alternatives.  His explanation of the purpose of each image or scene makes it easier to follow the poem with greater understanding (if not necessarily enjoyment).  But because he concentrates on every line with such minute detail, he frequently misses the wider design, and so, when he is puzzled by lines that don't fit his view of the Comedy, he has a tendency to blame Dante rather than himself.	2001-06-13
US	50178145	R1MBHLW03ZINER	0714530360	497977547	French Film Noir	Books	2	10	14	N	N	Re-fights very old film wars.	How did a type of film - the gangster film/film noir - so rooted in an American social, historical and cultural context (e.g. Prohibition, the Depression, McCarthy) become so popular and influential with French audiences and directors, to the extent where, in the 1960s and 70s, it was by far the leading genre in the country?  Why, when directors as iconoclastic as Godard wanted to challenge ocnventional narrative cinema, did they use film noir as a vehicle?  These are the questions Robin Buss, the author of 'The French Through Their Films', sets out to answer in this book, the first of its kind in English.<br />Buss's method is to devote a chapter to each theme loosely centred around a key film or figure (usually a director, surprising in a mainstream genre dependent on big stars).  'In Black and White' traces the transposition of conventional thriller and mystery stories to a French context, through the career of Clouzot, whose socially precise and cynical films (e.g. 'Le Corbeau', 'The Wages of Fear') caused critical outrage, accused of immorality and misanthropy.  <br />'La Route de Villennes' uses Becker's 'Touchez Pas Au Grisbi' to show how film noir became a vehicle for allegorising national crises such as the Nazi Occupation and the de-colonialisation process.  'Jazz', centring on Godard, highlights the increasing 'amorality' and formalism of a genre originally dedicated to the problems of law and criminality, while 'Criminal Types' uses Chabrol to explore the inadequacy of the genre's simplistic moral certainties.  'Police', and Costa-Gavras, charts the genre's move into the political thriller.<br />The heart of the book lies in the closing two chapters: 'Serie Noire' defines the post-modern thriller, its 'inventive' form (Corneau) and its descent into vacuous glossiness (Beineix, Carax, Besson); 'Back to Base' centres on the moral backlash against this trend, finding inspiration in Bresson's 'L'Argent', with its rigorous analysis of evil.  The book concludes with a filmography of 101 key French films noirs.<br />There are a number of unsatisfactory aspects to this study.  It has no clear thesis - at various, unconnected points it can be about the reaction to French noir of the British press (who cares?  The audiences in this country for such films was always small.  More interesting would have been a detailed look at domestic opinion), the development of cinema technology, or the notion of banal evil after World War Two.  Film students are likely to find the book lacks intellectual rigour, while general film fans must wade through discussions of many films unavailable outside France.  There is no account of the developments in the genre by directors from an immigrant background, and if you're looking for feminist critique of a man-heavy genre, forget it.<br />It is understandable that Buss would want to limit his focus to 1942 onwards, the period in which American noir truly begins, but this excludes the importance of pre-1942 literature (e.g. the books of Leblanc, Leroux, Allain et Souvestre) and cinema (e.g. Feuillade), which had as much influence on French noir as the American form, and a knowledge of which is indispensable to understanding what the French do to the foreign genre.  <br />The marginalising of the genre's most important figure, Jean-Pierre Melville, the man who did more than any to shift its terms, and to enlarge and enrich it, is baffling.  Actually, it's not:  Buss is a British critic, and, like many of the old-style British critics he quotes, he believes film should be a medium for tackling moral questions, hence the sniffy dismissal of Godard, and those directors concerned with deconstructing the language of the genre.  It is the old Sight and Sound/Cahiers du Cinema argument about content and form again, and it is as outdated as most of the ideas in this book.	2001-06-13
US	50178145	R5TMOVLPTQQXQ	1870259327	537985518	A Flea in Her Ear	Books	5	12	16	N	N	Fabulous fizz of a French farce from Feydeau.	A few years ago, I did a course at college in Modern French Drama.  It was mostly the usual doom-and-gloom stuff (Becque, Giraudoux, Sartre, Camus, Beckett), with no place for the most popular of 20th century dramatists, the farceur Feydeau.  This marginalisation, presumably because Feydeau was both populist and generic, tells us a lot about elitism in academia in these post-post-modernist times.  What should be made clear is that Feydeau is not only more fun than the above-mentioned, but both more theatrical and more radical.  <br />Farce is the one genuinely theatrical art form - it doesn't read very well on the page, and rarely works on screen.  Whereas 'realist' drama has tried to make the mechanics of drama less transparent to foreground the content, the primary pleasure of Feydeau's theatre is these mechanics: the vertignous interplay between character and plot on the one hand, and the formal choreography on the other, with its fusillade of entrances, exits, disguises, mistaken identities, verbal wit, physical violence, revolving doors, multiple stairs etc.  <br />Feydeau's art has been compared to clockwork, but that emphasis on mechanical precision doesn't do justice to the way he makes the characters plausible and their actions motivated, so that every disaster seems like a natural development rather than an imposed contrivance.<br />But even these levels of enjoyment would be rather superfical.  Where Feydeau truly excels is as a dissector of marriage and bourgeois society (one of the great joys for me reading the play was imagining the cast of Bunuel's 'The Discreet charm of the Bourgeoisie' in the roles): the games, hypocrisies, impotence, violence, ennui.  There is much fun in the play's central double role, where the confusion of the bourgeois patriarch with a drunken porter leads to many of the play's confusions, and subversively undermines the middle-class dependence on firm status and identity.  What emerges most clearly is the fragility of the intricate social structure when a rogue element threatens to destroy it.  In the end, that's all it is, a structure, one that offers a safety net against chaos and chance, but one that doesn't leave much room for personal freedom or happiness.  <br />Like Ionesco et al after him, Feydeau locates the decadence of this society in the breakdown of language, and much of the comedy comes not only from characters with cleft palattes and thick Spanish accents, but in the misinterpreting signs and modes of communication that are supposed to make this world ordered and coherent.  <br />Finally, a plot with a comedy Spaniard and a violent hotel manager must surely have influenced 'Fawlty Towers', one of the few non-theatrical works to replicate the technical precision and emotional undertow of Feydeau's work.	2001-05-31
US	50178145	RBILXDF73Y9HQ	0520212223	950169316	Hitchcock on Hitchcock: Selected Writings and Interviews	Books	3	2	2	N	N	A rare chance to read a great director in his own (!) words.	So few of the great directors from Hollywood's Golden Age wrote about their  craft, either its theory or practice, so this collection of articles, interviews, speeches, lectures and publicity pieces from Alfred Hitchcock is very welcome, even if most were ghost-written.  <br />The volume covers his career from humble menial in 1919 to aging maestro in the 1930s, and includes his thoughts on acting, plots, the studio system, producers, production, technicians, genre audiences, Britain, and, of course, style.  <br />There are some priceless anecdotes about Hitchcock's early directing days in the haphazard British film industry, a short story parodying Poe and sensationalist horror stories; the important essay 'Why I am Afraid of the Dark', acknowledging his debt to Poe and the Surrealists; an hilarious interview with a wannabe auteurist who doesn't even know what a cut is (Interviewer: 'our magazine is for 'the intelligent motion picturegoer''.  Hitch: 'Are there intelligent picturegoers'!); and an intriguing transcription of a screenwriting session for 'Marnie' with Evan Hunter.<br />The great problem with this book is its editing.  Firstly, Gottlieb's claims for the material are ludicrously disproportionate, and his lengthy introductions overstretch what is largely superficial material.  Hitch's ruminations on the audience and narrative, say, do not look forward to the current interests of film studies as if he were some kind of soothsayer, but reflect the concerns of all film-makers working in the same periods.  As Truffaut's book on Hitchcock proved in any case, it would be unwise to take everything the Master said at face value; and there is a typical unwillingness in these pieces to discuss the 'meaning' of his work.<br />More seriously, there is far too much repetition of material, as we watch Hitchcock recycling the same insights, stories and examples for different readerships; no amount of editorial sophism can prevent the reading becoming tedious.	2001-05-31
US	50178145	R308M01YC2AP36	2877141683	666692103	Le Jeu de L'Amour Et Du Hazard (World Classics) (French Edition)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	The best play by an important playwright, ignored in English	It is often claimed that Beaumarchais' Figaro plays are a milestone in French drama, subversive works that question the hierarchical power of the aristocracy, while celebrating the resourcefulness of servants.  But Beaumarchais did not come out of nowhere, and many of his themes were already developed half a century earlier in the comic drama of Marivaux.  <br />In 'The Game of Love and Chance', for instance, the heroine Silvia, is offered an arranged marriage by her father, Orgon.  She strikes a compromise: she suggests switching roles with her maid Lisette, so that she can obsreve the true character of her intended.  Unfortunately for her, he has the same idea.<br />'Game' is ultimately a conservative play - the social hierarchy is reinstated; a daughter obeys her father's wishes, her pretensions as a 'playwright', creating and controlling her own destiny, undermined by his own ultimate authorship.  <br />On the way to this restoration, however, extraordinary things happen.  Aristocrats must act as servants, and are humiliated, mocked and parodied by their inferiors.  This leads to crises of identity in the main characters from a world in which identity is synonymous with social position.  The rigidity of parental decree (and, by extesion, the social order), is replaced by a 'game', where love is tested, rather than a social given.  Language is shown not to be 'natural', but both a weopon used to negotiate society, and the bulwark behind which true feelings can hide.<br />Marivaux has been called the Racine of comedy - his characters are placed in an artificial setting where problems are interior rather than externally provoked.  The emphasis, therefore, is on dialogue: elaborate, artifical speech, which has been called 'marivaudage', and dismissed as 'precious'.  Translated, the tortuous, rhetorical wit can sound like laboured imitations of Elizabethan sonnet sequences (e.g. 'your eyes gave birth to my love, another glance made it grow, a third mothered it etc.').  <br />Still, with a little imagination; and a prior love of a theatre that flouts its (commedia dell'arte-derived) conventions, rather than concealing them; as well as the delicacies of the 18th century of Watteau, should find much to enjoy in this still amusing, and often suspenseful, comedy.	2001-05-31
US	50178145	R2QMV9V7QC8SJ3	1564782093	441695212	Odile	Books	3	4	4	N	N	A great writer's most autobiographical novel.	This 1937 novella is an autobiographical work, transposing, through the narrator-hero Roland Travy, Queneau's disjointed life in 1920s Paris - his rejection of his bourgeois background; his living in Paris; his military service; his struggles with his art.<br />Travy, returned from two years military service in a mostly clerical position, subsists in Paris on an allowance from a gay, ex-colonial uncle, conducting obscure mathematical research, lost in a fug of solipsism, passivity and a lack of self-esteem.  He drifts in with a group of petty criminals, where he meets another bourgeois abscondee, Odile, and, with equal passivity, gets involved with the Infrapsychics, an eccentric group of intellectuals who hope to provoke revolution through liberating the unconscious and the irrational.<br />For such a small book, 'Odile' is many things: a damning account of French colonialism in North Africa - the opening scenes depicting the crushing of a local rebellion in Morocco are frightening precisely because of their un-Tolstoyan vagueness; a satire/critique/fond evocation of political and cultural life in 1920s Paris, all the groups, -isms, infighting, experiments, flirting with Communism - in particular the Surrealists, to whom Queneau was briefly affiliated (he married Andre Breton's sister), relentlessly lampooning their arbitrary games and theories, while admitting the creative debt he owes them; a love story, postponed by a hero who 'despises' bourgeois notions like 'love' and 'marriage'; and the bildungsroman of an artist who goes along with whatever  comes his way, be it the army, the Infrapsychics, criminals, Communists etc., always unhappy, but never taking the active step thta might transform his, or reconcile him to, life. <br />Fans of Queneau's more linguistically playful works like 'Zazie' and 'Exercises of Style' might find 'Odile' disappointing.  As a love story, the figure of Odile is too idealised and symbolic to be affecting; the satire on Surrealism andits cultural milieu is too laboured and obvious to be laugh-out-loud (although this might be a problem with the flat translation: Queneau needs someone as recklessly inventive as Barbara Wright to survive in English) - there is fun to be had in recognising the fictionalised Breton, Aragon, Eluard etc., and there is an Alice-like court hearing, in which the magistrate starts interrogating Travy about Fermat's last theorem and the 'excluded middle'; the narrative of maturity is blunted by the narrator's rather unsympathetic personality, even if his aesthetics of mathematics is frequently, to this ignoramous, enrapturing, and his struggle to record his memories, imperfectly exploring the landscape of his mind with as many black holes as open spaces, is very poignant.<br />'Odile' has been called 'gentle', but what is most immediately apparent is the sadness and emptiness behind the logorrheic comedy.  Where 'Odile' succeeds is formally and philosophically.  It lacks the set-pieces of 'Zazie', but there is the same dizzying, elliptical style, what Gilbert Adair calls Queneau's 'jump cuts', the same telescoping and contracting of narrative time and space, that can be disorienting and liberating.<br />The novel opens with a beautiful paragraph about the narrator's (re?)birth, at 21, walking down a muddy road skirting a North African town, the rain just stopped, the last clouds caught fleeing in a puddle.  Straight ahead of him stands an Arab, possibly a nobleman, a philosopher or a poet, staring at something.  What that something might be, for the narrator, the reader, the novelist, the book, is what 'Odile' movingly explores.	2001-05-25
US	50178145	R20I4GC71VZMM7	0451628047	22760455	The Divine Comedy: Volume 1: The Inferno	Books	4	12	18	N	N	David Cronenberg starts here.	Normally, it is a matter of indifference to me what a writer's opinions are.  it would be pretty boring if we only read people we agreed with.  Nevertheless, Dante provided a severe test to my tolerance.  It's not that the book is a religious allegory - with a title like 'The Divine Comedy', you know what you're getting, although allegories always seem to me the narrowest form of literature, a transparent expression of dogma.  <br />It was partly being uncomfortable with Dante's spectacular arrogance at playing God, deciding who was going to Hell.  It was partly shock at the Pilgrim's unpunished bursts of abuse at perceived sinners, at one point hilariously pulling a buried man's hair out to his guide's tacit approval.  it was mostly that Dante's high-minded conception was tainted by frequent pot-shots at various personal and ideological enemies.  I'm all for pungent satire, but consigning someone you don't like to Hell because they're in the wrong political party seems, to me, to undermine an artist's integrity and credibility.<br />One way to defeat Dante's procedures is to de-allegorise the allegory.  In other words, instead of reading every event for its theological significance, enjoy it for what it is on the surface.  Reading about an exile lost in a wood after taking a wrong turning, frightened away by savage animals, is much more intriguing than reading about a man blocked in his spiritual life by earthly interests.  <br />You can enjoy the astonishing precision of Dante's architecture, not just of Hell, and its various circles, but the poem itself.  You can read it as a fascinating compendium of mythology, history and art - how cool is it in any work to meet Homer and Ovid on your travels, with Virgil as your guide?  Dante's references to gruesome contemporary history suggests his vision of hell has nothing on reality.<br />You can enjoy 'Inferno' for the pictorial vividness - not just the 'hellish' scenes (souls turned into weeping trees; the proto-Cronenberg mutation of a man and a snake; the surreal sight of an ice floor covered in heads; the Fu Manchu-like appearance of Lucifer); but also the beautiful pastoral similes referring back to a lush, green, fertile Italy unavailable to the damned.<br />You can relish the fact that, though a Comedy in the classical sense, the poem is frequently comic, either in the over-emphatic repulsiveness of some scenes, or, more usually, in the Pilgrim's gauche lack of etiquette.  You can enjoy it as a sci-fi/horror adventure/ghost story with two intrepid sidekicks.<br />I would recommend most strongly Steve Ellis's awesome translation 'Hell', a case of needing 600 years to get it finally right.  Dante's mixing the epic and the vernacular is freshly, often provocatively, realised, making the narrative as immediate and exciting as it once was, not a bogged down cultural icon.  <br />Even better, the clause-heavy clumping of his competitors is replaced by clean, simple English, with a hurtling, fluid rhythmic momentum that compels you to continue; notes are kept to a functional minimum, and there are NO distracting maps.  I notice with sadness that this is out of print, probably explaining why the subsequent volumes haven't been tackled.  If you're out there Professor Ellis, get cracking!  Even if your reward will only be in the next world.	2001-05-18
US	50178145	R21N62BESUSZ6E	0865273057	249044593	Skin of Dreams	Books	4	4	4	N	N	An Occupation-era paean to cinema and dreams.	This book's French title actually translates as 'Far From Reuil' (a suburb of Paris), but both are appropriate.  'Skin of Dreams' relates the adventures of Jacques L'Aumone, schoolboy; illegitimate son of a nobleman poet; cineaste; chemical engineer; theatre director; extra; unrequited lover; vagrant; saint; documentary filmmaker; tropical adventurer; world-famous film-star.  <br />The novel sets up a division between the 'real' world of 1920s Reuil and the cinema-generated dreams of the young Jacques, who wishes himself a  cowboy, composer etc.  Distinctions between the two soon vanish, with fantasy becoming reality, or reality merely seeming fantastic (the plot has the circularity, recurrence and metamorphosis of characters, situations and motifs, the speedy rush of incident of a dream, but refuses to declare itself as such). <br />This goes beyond the familiar blurring of reality and fantasy, and is part of the Surrealist project of unearthing the fluid, transformmative, fetishistic and strange inherent in the monolithc everyday, with its repressions of reality, family, gender, etc.<br />This was a pertinent desire in the Occupation during which the novel was written: the novel is also a very funny parody of the existentialism that was emerging as the era's credo (one of the characters suffers from a 'posh' form of asthma called 'ontalgia'). <br />Like Godard's universe in a coffee cup, the novel's metaphysical reach encompasses lice and the stars.  For all its linguistic and philosophical enquiry, however, it should not be forgotten that Queneau has, in miniature, a Proustian facility with the extended set-piece - Jacques becoming the cowboy he imitates on screen; Jacques trying to tantalise an elderly Humbert into selling a valuable medicine; Jacques' abandoned wife relating her history - and a cast of characters that, again like Proust, are as vivid and human as they are protean and elusive.	2001-05-18
US	50178145	R2D4Z5PSGJA3SO	0851708072	5213839	Salo (BFI Film Classics)	Books	3	22	27	N	N	A rather muted appreciation of a 'scandalous' classic.	'Salo' is a prominent in that select group of 'scandalous' 1970s films (e.g. 'Straw Dogs', 'In the Realm of the Senses') which retains the power to shock, appal, unnerve today (although I personally found 'Salo' more numbing that anything).  Pasolini's last film before his brutal murder in 1975, it is a transplanting of the Marquis de Sade's infamous 1785 novel to the dying days of Fascist Italy, in which four prominent figures (a bishop, an aristocrat, a banker and a judge) retire to an abandoned villa with soldiers, courtesans, collaborators and 18 slaves to indulge in a ritualised orgy of sexual excess, faecal banquets, storytelling, torture and murder.<br />Gary Indiana's monograph starts well, with a number of apparent digressions effectively contextualising 'Salo': the author's first encounter with the film in the ... L.A. of the 1970s; 'Salo''s place at the culmination of Pasolini's career (with a clear-eyed appraisal of that career, and the personal and political biography that was inseperable from it); 'Salo''s status as the last major art-movie, released in the same year as 'Jaws' destroyed auteurism, independence and experiment forever (a development Indiana bracingly rants against).<br />Indiana is very good on Pasolini's contradictions, his courage and frequent dislikability, his style of 'contamination' (e.g. interspersing 'real' actors in a predominantly unprofessional cast; his recourse to pastiche and allusion) and some of his major themes - the lingering fascism in the soulless corruption of consumerist society and its debasing of the human body; the superiority of pre-industrial rusticity etc.  <br />But when he gets to the film itself, Indiana opts for a lengthy description of its plot with occasional asides.  As so often in this series (and the BFI classics), the lack of systematic criticism (from non-film-academic/critics)leads to a frustratingly bitty stu.	2001-05-16
US	50178145	R3OD6D6YA9YE2J	0828837252	798943399	Zazie dans le Metro (French Edition)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Alice in Paris.	Like his hero Lewis Carroll, Raymond Queneau was a polyglot, and a mathematician with a love of patterns, forms and games.  He wrote a study of dog language in Carroll's 'Sylvie and Bruno', and 'Zazie' is his update of Alice to the Parisian Wonderland of the late 1950s, although it is not clear whether Zazie is an anti-Alice, bringing chaos to a normal society, or whether she is a precocious, sensible, curious (if foul-mouthed) child faced with a blinkingly unstable universe: Zazie is notably passive in the book's final third, when the linguistic, philosophical, temporal, narrative, spatial and sexual dissolutions collapse into a frenzy of barmy physical violence.<br />the book as a whole sees Rabelais and Diderot rewriting the Arabian Nights.  Each chapter plays like a Ionesco drama, a sustained, rhythmic dialogue where the disparity between bizarre event and the disintegrating attempts of language to express it, creates a gap where logic contracts, explodes and comes back together in an hilarious anti-logic.  Not only are the borders of dream and reality, plausibility and fantasy, role play and identity broken down, but Queneau's narrative procedures - at once Joycean in its plenitude, and startling in its gaping ellipses - further confuse the reader.<br />'Zazie' is Queneau's most 'plausible' novel, in that much of its fun lies in its Parisian locales, and its comedy at the expense of romantic cliches about the city; but it is also a true Surrealist novel, both in breaking down the normality of the real, and in asserting that the only way you can get what you want is to dream.	2001-05-02
US	50178145	R2G69OO6TNDXRJ	0729300862	904066568	Queneau: Zazie dans le metro (Critical Guides to French Texts)	Books	3	2	4	N	N	essential if provoking.	This guide is an invaluable resource for English readers of Queneau's most popular novel.  No translation, even one as inspired as Barbara Wright's, can convey the complexity of Queneau's wordplay, which is simply untranslatable.  Redfern gives a very useful explanatory list of the puns, neologisms, allusions, portmanteau words etc. that energise the novel, and shows how they are move than verbal showing-off, pointing to the novel's meanings and themes.<br />As a study of 'Zazie', the book is less successful.  Being the first monograph on Queneau in English (1980), it is as much an introduction to the writer's life, work, themes and methods as it is of 'Zazie'.  Redfern is especially concerned with Queneau's interest in language (his benign war between demotic and official French); his philosophical and aesthetic interests; and his place in the history of literary comedy.<br />This is all fair enough, but too often you get the impression Redfern doesn't take Queneau seriously enough (patronising judgements like 'gentle' are invoked); while his disavowal of structuralist theoretical rigour (he dismisses Barthes as a 'fashionable guru') results in a style which is old-fogeyish and complacent, seriously unsophisticated in matters of sexual politics.	2001-05-02
US	50178145	R1KUA7OWYHS9SO	0192838083	642765684	The Raid and Other Stories (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Tolstoy on a smaller, more managable scale.	I was attracted to this volume by Calvino's recommendation of 'Two Hussars', a gorgeous, bipartite story of Turgenev-like transparency, about the respective, mirroring adventures of a father and son, and their relationships with the army, their servants, the local society they briefly enter, and the women they meet.  <br />In one sense it is a tale about history, about the raucous gambling, drinking and dancing of the early 19th century, and the more sedate, stolid bourgeoisification in its middle.  The climax, where narrative and character gives way to suspended time and a tableaux of nature, is heartstopping.  <br />The other stories in this collection are similarly schizophrenic, ranging from early works in the 1850s influenced by Tolstoy's time in the army; and the later didactic, moralistic works, including some of his most famous, 'The Death of Ivan Illyich' and 'How much land does a man need?' (which Joyce thought the greatest story ever written).   <br />the translations by Louise and Aylmer Maude, nearly a century old, are still very readable, probably because they were friends of Tolstoy's, and had greatr knowledge of his methods and intentions.  The annotation and 1982 introduction needs updating, though.	2001-04-26
US	50178145	R35TF3T7LMBI61	046087344X	590612959	Tess of the D'urbervilles (Everyman's Library)	Books	4	4	7	N	N	Immense and claustrophobic.	Thomas Hardy is as close as the novel ever got to Shakespeare, and this is his 'Midsummer Night's Dream' (or nightmare).  It is a pastoral - the set-piece descriptions of nature (the play of light at differing times of the day, the verdant plenitude during Tess and Angel's courtship, the astonishing effect of bonfires at dusk etc.) are among the most overpoweringly vivid in literature, genuine word-painting - and an anti-pastoral, with even the natural world infected with poisonous, unnatural social conventions, with the growth of Talbothays petrified into the sterile limbo of Flintcomb-Ash.<br />As in Shakespeare, there is a conflict in 'Tess' between the surface, linear plot, which tells a transient, austere tale of some people whose existence is short and ultimately barren, and the movement of the imagery, eternal, self-generating.  The abundance of the latter makes the relentless grimness of the former just about tolerable (although the Flintcomb-Ash section is painfully unreadable) - as in Shakespeare, the burden of sexuality and emotion denied by society is placed on the natural world, on the language and the imagery, so the emotional deprivation in the plot starkly contrasts with its potent, lubricious surroundings.<br />The plot is not 'realistic', but ritualised and patterned, set in heavily symbolic, paganistic sites, human nature stylised in pageants and tableaux.  The climactic part, where Hardy twice  startlingly changes narrative point-of-view, ushers in a new age of anti-Victorian fiction.	2001-04-18
US	50178145	RPJ8YDHERU157	0811207897	568202456	Exercises in Style	Books	4	19	20	N	N	Revolution as fun.	Queneau said he wanted to do for literature what Bach did for music in the Art of fugue.  He also wanted to simultaneously clean up the French language, remove its archaic, stuffy conventions, while affirming its elasticity, its variety, its refusal to be contained in anything so deadening as an 'official' language.<br />Certainly, having read 99 variations on a simple story, all unique, all demonstrating language's protean invention, the traditional one-voice, one tone novel will seem unsatisfactory and lazy.<br />I know 'Exercises in style' does lots of interesting philosophical and scientific things that are more important than Derrida etc. etc.  I like the way a mode of language, simply by functioning, can completely altar a story told in another mode.  if you read a story with metaphors, say, you translate the metaphors to see what the writer is 'really' saying.  Because you know the story in 'Exercises', you can read the metaphors literally, and another story emerges, hilariously and subversively different from the 'original'.<br />'Exercises' does this throughout, with slang, poetry, rhetoric, narrative, word games, different voices etc., showing how 99 scientific classifications actually function in declassifying and decentring.  <br />Barbara Wright, along with Scott Moncrieff, was the great translator of the 20th century, and her transposing, rather than translating, of Queneau's work from the French language into an English primer is a miracle.  It is a little known fact that 'Exercises' is a detective story, with the solution fittingly revealed in the 99th chapter.	2001-04-11
US	50178145	RRU246QCRTAHX	0946439583	502986314	The Double: A Psychoanalytic Study (Maresfield Library)	Books	2	17	24	N	N	A milestone in psychoanalytic literary criticism.	A recurring figure in European literature, especially of a gothic sort, is the double, an identical figure who appears to torment the hero in works such as Poe's 'William Wilson', Hoffmann's 'The Doubles' and Doestoevsky's 'The Double'.  One night Otto Rank, an Austrian disciple of Freud who later broke away from his master, watched a film on this theme, Wegener's 'The Student of Prague', leading him to ponder it from a psychoanalytic viewpoint, resulting in this famous 1914 study.<br />firstly, he discusses the multitude of literary examples, including Musset, Stevenson, Maupassant and Wilde, and the different kinds of doubles - literal doubles, shadows, reflections, portraits, psychological projections, fathers/brothers (it's always men), past/future selves etc.  More dubiously, he then analyses the mental biographies of the authors.  <br />There follows a review of the anthropological origins of the double figure - e.g. as a symbol of in/fertility and masculine im/potency, or the soul - utilising a lot of now outmoded, pre-pre-structuralist material, and much use of terms like 'primitives' and 'savages'.  Finally, he discusses the double in relation to the theory of narcissism, seeing the trope originating as a positive symbol of both sexual desire and immortality, both ways of warding off the ego-threatening dissolution of death.<br />Rank has a lot of interesting material here, but he is so limited by his psychoanalytic framework that his few insights, after so many exhausting lists, seem superficial (Freud, in 'the Uncanny' is much more open and convincing).  His methodology is wayward, and while never syntactically obscure in the manner of Lacan, it is often difficult to make out what he's saying intellectually.	2001-04-06
US	50178145	R1UXMC561V90BI	0729302261	947300424	Cocteau: Les Enfants Terribles (Grant & Cutler Critical Guides to French Texts)	Books	3	1	3	N	N	Informative, patchy, introduction to idiosyncratic classic.	Robin Buss is a respected French academic and translator for Penguin Classics; he has also written a number of books on French cinema, inclusing one on French film noir.  You might therefore think him the ideal candidate to write an introductory monographe on 'Les Enfants Terribles', the most famous literary work by sometime filmmaker Jean Cocteau, a book famously adapted by Jean-Pierre Melville, the master of French film noir.<br />Buss, hilariously mocking the received (i.e. Anglo-Saxon) view of the novel as a study of four eccentric, self-destructive children wilting in a hothouse world of their own making, insists the novel must not be read according to traditional, 19th century realist expectations.  He does this so often, his assumed reader must be quite dim - surely no-one reading Cocteau could confuse him with Balzac or Zola (except the English?!).<br />He is very good at discussing the different temporal and spatial levels in the novel, its mythical and mythological impulse, and its collapsing linear narrative into ritual and theatre.  His ultimate conclusion that it is a novel about love is a bit bland, and his argument old-fashioned (and rather English); he is better at discussing the children as surrogate artists, maintaining a child-like vision of the world.  <br />His discussion of Melville's film, however, in many ways superior to its source, is hopeless.  Because it is a 'bad' transcription of Buss' interpretation of Cocteau's book, rather than the magical source of themes, images, characters and stories that would flower and underpin Melville's later work, the film is apparently a failure (Melville's use of theatrical metaphors alone are an ingenious rendering of Cocteau).  <br />There are too many pages for for what Buss has to say, so, especially towards the end, there is a lot of padding.	2001-04-04
US	50178145	RAC6A6WR859IS	0940322250	342023166	Hindoo Holiday: An Indian Journal (New York Review Books Classics)	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Fascinating holiday in one class-ridden society from another	Ackerley's (very artfully constructed) journal does many things.  It offers an informative, basic guide to an Indian culture - its religious rites, observances, symbols etc; etiquette; social system - holding surprisingly strong under the Raj.<br />It mixes tacit admiration for the expressive beauty of that culture with equally tacit horror for its repressive absurdities.<br />It compares this society, favourably, with the sterile and racist Raj.<br />It offers a sublimely funny comedy of social manners, full of characters from all castes and social positions, who are generally eccentric and/or sympathetic, all related in an elliptical comic style reminiscent of contemporaries Waugh and Powell, with the occasional unWaugh-like burst of rapture.<br />For me, however, the book is most fascinating as a mystery story-cum-psychological study of the author himself - co-existing with the 'objective' observations is an exultant gay desire and lingering, mostly repressed trauma from the Great War that speak volumes about his motives for leaving decadent England for India, and explain the author's abiding interest in the country's taboos and restrictions.	2001-03-21
US	50178145	R2C14JPPKD63IU	0964039907	51139361	Les Enfants Terribles	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Almost as magical as the film.	'Les Enfants Terribles' is one of those great novels of childhood at which the French excel, full of vibrancy, caprice, terror, passion, danger, wonder, fun: its narrative is an allegory of that life-, body-, soul-changing move from childhood to adulthood.<br />But it is so much more.  It is the great Surrealist novel, about the child-like way of looking at the dim, everyday world as marvellous, as new: a snow-blanketed street, a messy room, a trip to the seaside.  It is a novel of rite, of theatre, of play; of the classical and the modern; a living Surrealist manifesto, where reality, dream and imagination conflate in a supreme act of transformation, as dependent on, yet transcending, the real world as the novel's heroes.  It is poetry and imagination as King Midas; a moustache on a marble bust; the lightest and most profound book ever written.	2001-03-21
US	50178145	RLRJEKN5FGR2D	1555540023	51572865	don von Horvth: Plays (PAJ Books)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	A forgotten, intriguing playwright.	Odon Von Horvath was an Austrian contemporary of Brecht's, and although he rejects ideology and the formal principles of Epic theatre, there is something Brechtian in the way his characters argue by hurling dialectical aphorisms at each other.<br />'figaro gets divorced' is his most famous play, and reintroduces the famous quartet of Beaumarchais' 'Barber of Seville' and 'Marriage of Figaro' - the Count and Countess Almaviva; their married servants, Figaro and Susanna - seven years later, or over a hundred - we first see them flee an unnamed Revolution, not unlike the Russian one.<br />It may be distressing to see Beaumarchais' farcical subversion made heavy and Germanic in a three-hours, thirteen-tableaux political drama.  The impish Figaro soon leaves his anachronistic employers to become, once more, a barber, this time in a sleepy, ultra-conformist, soon-to-be-Nazi German town.  The bourgeoisification of this free, cynical spirit stifles his wife, and she has a brutal affair.  Sex in this play is no longer, as in Beaumarchais, an expression of power, just an admission of defeat.  <br />Figaro returns to the Communist State to become a prominent apparatchik; Susanna waitresses at a White cabaret where all the menials are ex-royalty; Almaviva gets embroiled in debilitating gambling and criminal activities.  A lot of goodwill for these characters is carried over from Beaumarchais, Mozart and Rossini, so when we watch their inexorable decline, it's hard to know whether it is our memories, or Von Horvath's writing that affects us.  <br />Certainly, there is something powerful about watching the spirit of one Revolution grimly debased in the age of another; and there is a vivid intensity to the playwright's expert tableaux.  The dialogue initially seems lumpenly didactic until we realise that it is didacticism he analyses and undermines.  Hearteningly, despite all the despair and misery, Von Horvath doesn't forget he's writing in an important tradition of comedy.  Moreplease.	2001-03-16
US	50178145	R3FFJJSB59AQDO	0140432620	374464565	Daisy Miller (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	13	14	N	N	A masterpiece miniature.	Read heading a collection of James short stories, 'Daisy' is a delight, with a classically clear narrative, beautifully direct prose (especially if you've come from the late novels!), a charming heroine, and a sublime balancing act between unexpected comedy (the great Randolph C. Miller!) and the most horrifying tragedy.<br />Puffed up as a 'novella', however, with an introduction (Geoffrey Moore) almost as long, and copious notes (Patricia Crick), and the poor girl is left a little exposed.  Maybe my feeling of relative disappointment, having fallen in love over ten years ago, was due to this infuriating critical apparatus, the introduction patronising James, the notes condescending to the reader.<br />What strikes me now as the work's brilliance is not the concise treatment of the America/Europe, man/woman, appearance/reality, Geneva/Rome dialectic that so obsessed James; or even the astonishing achievement of the narration, somehow distancing and conflating the narrator and his silly hero. What is especially striking is the visual quality, the minutely composed tableaux - now Gothic, now impressionistic, now sharply lucid - as an abortive love affair is played out on the placid shores of Lake Geneva, the rondelay of the Pincio Gardens, or the ruins of ancient Rome, malaria poisoning the air on its way to Venice and Thomas Mann.	2001-03-14
US	50178145	R2C7K5DUT6Y0LI	0811200183	130445026	Guignol's Band: Novel	Books	4	14	16	N	N	Staggering, comic reworking of the conventional crime novel.	Like his Bulgarian pianist-pimp boro, Celine enters the house of the gangster novel, hurls a grenade and flees, recording the pieces.  This is an underworld novel Lautreamont might have written - indeed, the first third reads like an update of 'Maldoror', less narrative chapters than prose poems of war, urban fever and mental breakdown, imploding under the simultaneous tension of concentration and fragmentation.  The opening sequence is thus very difficult to read, the air attack on a traffic-jammed bridge imaged in a verbal bombing, which, while undeniably brilliant and exciting is very exhausting.  <br />if you are understandably tempted to give up, persevere - the novel 'settles' into a relatively conventional (and hilarious) plot, divided into three sequences dominated by three larger-than-life father figures who take the hero under their wing - a ganglord, a pawnbroker, a magician.  <br />Despite a vibrant vision of London rarely experienced in literature, Celine constantly pushes material normally associated with generic materiality into the realm of magic, farce, fairy-tale, pantomime, the Guignol of the title - the novel's complex allusiveness includes Shakespeare and the Arabian Nights.  This conflict, between realistic content and fantastic/theatrical form gives the novel its feeling of being on the brink of collapse; its eruptions into brawls (both narrative and verbal) looks forward to Pynchon's 'V'.  <br />Be warned - although you wouldn't know it from the information on this edition, this is only the first part of a two-volume novel (the second is translated as London Bridge).  I didn't know this when reading, which was obviously affected.	2001-03-09
US	50178145	R1AGMU09EINMIA	0207131627	277098917	Cotters' England (A & R classics)	Books	1	3	7	N	N	It was grim in post-war  England.	Attracted to this book by raves from Patrick White and my favourite writer, Angela Carter, I was eagerly expecting some unholy  mix of reckless epic and verbal fusillade.  What I got was a stubbornly inedible stew of Arnold Bennett and DH Lawrence; the flat social realism of the former, detailing post-war working class/socialist/bohemian england; and the incoherent mysticism of the latter, expressed in the dense, interminable monologues with which the heroine tries to literally bore her acolytes to death.<br />The novel simply refuses to live - the situations don't make much sense, the characters are phoney, and the words are spewed out too easily to seem anything but insincere.  A figurative undertow of the novel, nagging away at the 'realism', comes from the world of folk and fairy tales, horror and the supernatural, especially in the last third, with brief hallucinatory interruptions; but each time the otherwordly threatens, the unreal everyday comes crashing in like the heroine's ceiling.	2001-03-07
US	50178145	R32HY9YLMF8YK9	1852352485	366755004	Tales from the Poorhouse	Books	4	3	4	N	N	How do you humanise an unspeakable national horror?	This is an important, harrowing and beautiful book.  Important, because it takes an historical event that has been abstracted by ideologues - the Great Famine - and restores its humanity.  Harrowing because of the descriptions of this disaster, not of its social or political importance, but the way it effected families and destroyed the land, creating a tangible atmosphere of death.  It is (perversely?) beautiful because, like all McCabe works, it is alive to the harsh beauty of nature, and also because the four speakers of these monologues try to order the horrors by telling stories, full of excuses, self-delusion and bitter hatred, but also nostalgia, revelation and epiphany.  The book works by taking stock figures from the Famine - the Orphan, the Landlord, etc. - and making them compellingly human and complex, not bogeymen.	2001-02-28
US	50178145	R3OJW3P6DCPTO8	0851707777	59697290	Metropolis (BFI Film Classics)	Books	4	15	15	N	N	Exemplary study of elusive film masterpiece.	The BFI Classics series features book-length monographs on films preserved in the British Film Institute archive.  Although a wide range of figures, from TV presenters and novelists to screenwriters to journalists have contributed, the most satisfying books so far have been those by film theorists, intimate with films' cultural and critical contexts, and able to situate the classic film more satisfactorily.<br />Thomas Elsaesser is one of the most important film theorists of the last three decades, specialising in early and German cinema.  His study of Fritz Lang's controversial masterpiece 'Metropolis' is exemplary, covering the production history, the films' many sources, the extraordinary Weimar culture from which it emerged, the original (largely negative) critical reception, the subsequent(even more negative) ideological interpretations that followed World War Two, and the film's current status as a post-modern classic of the city.  <br />Elsaesser's clarity is all the more gratifying in that 'Metropolis', more than any other film, has been entangled in so many conflicting debates that the film itself tends to get lost; and exists in so many different cut versions that an 'original', director's version doesn't even exist.  As fact gives way to theory in the second half, the study is a bit harder going, but Elsaesser is to be congratulated for showing how Giorgio Moroder, with his notorious 80s revamping of the film, 'revealed' it as much as he distorted it.	2001-02-23
US	50178145	RSSDR3FTBL9SA	0192839578	262538627	The Charterhouse of Parma (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	5	24	25	N	N	Model translation + introduction great tribute to Stendhal.	'Charterhouse' is seemingly a very different novel from Stendhal's previous masterpiece, 'the Red and the Black'.  where the earlier book used the style of an Alexander Dumas adventure story to ironise its static hero, Fabrice del Dongo does go through some exciting adventures - fighting in Waterloo, embroiled in a grubby duel, escaping from an 'impossible' prison-fortress - not all of which are essentially ridiculous.<br />The dilemma, however, is the same - an anachronistic hero, dreaming of great, chivalric deeds, is forced to collude with a mundane, self-interested, materialistic, middle-class dominated society, and is ultimately compromised by it.  But where Julien Sorel was the compelling dark centre of his novel, Fabrice is often absent from his, his fate being decided by the lengthy machinations of others (although the rare decisions he finally takes tend to smash through the most intricate Machiavellianism).<br />Whereas Julien was surrounded by a generally pallid supporting cast, 'Charterhouse' bursts with extraordinary, larger-than-life characters - the beatiful Gina, arguably the real hero of the novel, disastrously in love with her nephew; her middle-aged lover Mosca (the same age as Stendhal!), Prime minister of Parma, tyrannical politician and wonderful man; the Prince, spoilt, vain, paranoid, murderously capricious; as well as republican-poets, deformed actors and a gallery of unforgettable minor characters.<br />Stendhal is the most beloved of 19th century writers because he eschews pedantic detail and description in favour of narrative momentum and the provisional expression of feeling and responses to experience (it is easy to see why Proust loves him).  The rush, the joy, the hyperbole, the unpredictability of plot and style all match Fabrice's headlong character, and yet there is an in-built melancholy and critique largely unavailable to the hero.  <br />The brilliant translation captures the thrill and deceptive ease of Stendhal's art (especially compared to the stumbling Penguin one); while Roger Pearson's beautiful Introduction is quite simply the best I have ever read, alive to the serious profundity of the book, but ultimately affirming its transcendent power.	2001-02-21
US	50178145	R2L6DLQT9NPJSZ	0916390586	29003929	Selected Poems | Francis Ponge (English and French Edition)	Books	4	13	17	N	N	Excellently translated introduction to unclassifiable master	Francis Ponge may not yet be a household name, but his famous admirers include the likes of Sartre, Robbe-Grillet and Calvino.  It was the latter who introduced me to the poet, whose work is generally classified as being concerned with language, and with things (his most famous collection is called 'Siding with things'), including pebbles, crabs and cigarettes.<br />Ponge composed mostly in prose poems, and with his direct, precise language, he should be the easiest of foreign poets to translate.  He is, however, one of the most difficult, because his 'direct' and 'precise' vocabulary is anything but - like Joyce, Ponge scrapes the banalities from words, and forces us to reconsider the exact meanings of them, their etymologies and implications.  This can transform or complicate the poems' meaning completely, but as French words have a different versatility to English ones, the linguistic subtlety isn't always apparent in translation.<br />this makes the achievement of the three translaters here, all poets, the more admirable, as they catch much of Ponge's rhythmic, tonal and playful art.  The poems themselves are marvels of revelation, recreating everyday objects like they never before existed, as the poet journeys through language into their usually ignored essence.  You emerge determined to be more observant in future, to be more receptive to life.	2001-02-21
US	50178145	RSSD568W4AS81	1564782158	453906898	Best of Myles (John F. Byrne Irish Literature Series)	Books	4	5	8	N	N	Five for peerless Myles; zero for the editing.	this compilation contains, without qualification, THE funniest writing of the twentieth century, so it seems churlish to list complaints.  Some of these are unavoidably the nature of the material - Myles na Gopaleen wrote a regular column for an Irish newspaper for a quarter of a century, so the very local concerns discussed in some of the pieces render them impenetrable to all but Irish historians.<br />The biggest problem is with the editing, or lack thereof.  There are no explanatory notes offering historical, social or political context; there are no translatoins of the many German, Latin, Irish etc. interpellations.  One could argue that this leaves us in the same position as those first newspaper readers, but Myles' predominantly middle-class audience could boast a sound classical education and a greater familiarity with the allusions so liberally scattered here than we do today.  <br />Finally, the decision not to print the pieces chronologically (none of them are dated), but by subject, distorts the work, handicaps its versatility and can lead to repetition and tedium.<br />That 'the Best of Myles' remains one of the last century's few genuinely important books is entirely due to the indestructible persona(e) of Myles himself, hypercultured, alcoholic, visionary verbal contortionist with pretensions to aristocratic  heritage.  His phlegmatic invective at local problems such as sewage systems and the civil service are less valuable than his assault on language as it had (has?) degenerated into cliche and received opinion in the culturally sterile Ireland of the 1940s and 50s; and in his post-modern project of demolishing hierarchies of linguistic and artistic endeavour.  Reading Myles has a bracing effect - he forces you out of habitual mental laziness; forces you to think HARDER.	2001-02-21
US	50178145	R3DRPGP248W4P3	0679725091	931238648	Freud for Beginners	Books	5	9	12	N	N	Great introduction to Freud with amazing illustrated slides.	The 'xxx for beginners' are marvellous not just because they give you a valuable grounding in forbidding subjects, allowing you to approach primary texts with more confidence, but because they are so entertaining, even in subjects you have little interest in.  Though this book is a much-needed introduction to and exposition of Freud's basic theories, making you feel clever as you join the dots you always knew were there but for the intimidating jargon, the real joy is in the irreverent presentation, especially the illustrations.  These are full of in-jokes about Freud's life and times which are not always treated explicitely in the text, as well as being technically expert, imaginative and, sometimes, bracingly shocking.  So while it is pleasing, in these anti-Freudian times, to be reminded of the man's incalculable importance and influence, the illustrations offer an in-built critique that puts everything in perspective.  Great fun.	2001-02-16
US	50178145	R109XNWQPOOPK0	0486295729	810233317	The Double (Dover Thrift Editions)	Books	4	42	43	N	N	Hilarious and haunting early Dostoevsky.	Dostoevsky's second novel comes pretty late in the day of the first European doppelganger/double cycle.  it's the usual thing - a complacently respectable civil servant, Mr. Golyadkin, is publicly humiliated.  Soon, an exact replica of himself enters his life, receiving undeserved favour from the hero's superiors, while behaving atrociously and getting Golyadkin blamed.  Does the second Golyadkin really exist?  Does he represent the hero's dark side, the Id lurking in his subconscious, performing the transgressions his bourgeois public persona would dare not?  Is it all a nightmare?  Is Golyadkin a schizophrenic?  Mad?  All par for the course.<br />The novel's subtitle gives a clue to its real worth - 'a poem of St. Petersburg'.  Dostoevsky's descriptions of this snow- and wind-lashed city, with its dank, claustrophobic, labyrinthine streets, squelching with mud, its menacing tenements and restaurants, and the bordering restless, gloomy river, are a vivid backdrop to Golyadkin's circular nightmare - the storm scene when he discovers his double is an atmospheric tour de force.<br />Dostoevsky's style in this novel was apparently modelled on Gogol - certainly it is immediate, intrusive, sarcastic, ironic, bathetic, fast, very funny, yet always unsettling, even poetic.  Golyadkin should deserve our sympathy, yet his self-importance, long-windedness and cowardice are rendered comically ridiculous, and from the beginning, with the strange ball, the elliptical narrative and ambiguous point of view, the reader's sympathies and interpretations are constantly shifting.<br />Written in 1846, before the arrest and spiritual crisis, there is no contrived redemption here, and the novel's resolution is more satisfying than some of the later work's, although the author himself was surely right when he said later that the first half is far superior to the second.  Best of all are the public set-pieces that frame Golyadkin's identity crisis.<br />(I recommend Jessie Coulson's fluid Penguin translation, which, a few infelicities aside, captures something of the book's rapidity and playfulness).fluid Penguin translation, which, a few infelicities aside, captures something of the book's rapidity and playfulness).	2001-02-09
US	50178145	R2J4DBSI6F27L7	0802130763	784764879	Happy Days	Books	4	12	16	N	N	Beckett's most usefully truthful play.	So often Beckett's philosophical 'universality' seems like an excuse not to confront genuine dilemmas head on.  'Happy Days' is his most tangible work, a grim portrait of a marriage, where a wife is buried up to her waist/waste in a repetitious living death, trying to avoid confronting the reality of her situation, the brutish indifference of her husband, the incremental inevitability of life only getting worse.  <br />Winnie is Beckett's most sympathetic character because she is the one we are the most likely to meet - she is aware of the hopelessness of her situation, but what can she do?  Concentrate on something else - how many of us do better?  The dissatisfaction most people have with the play presumably lies with the stage directions which interrupt the monologue every couple of words, rendering a fluid, rhythmic read impossible (like Beckett was ever easy).  Instead of complaining, go and see it in a theatre, where words and gesture combine to moving effect, even when the language is at its most insistently ironic and playful (and it's very funny too, but don't they always say that about Beckett?).  It certainly made me ashamed of the way I treat my wife.	2001-02-09
US	50178145	R3EJV4GYDS6MWI	0802150551	408121599	Collected Shorter Plays	Books	5	37	41	N	N	Extraordinary, but to be taken in doses.	Some advice: although this book contains some of the most astonishing plays ever written, I wouldn't read them all in one go.  If you do, doubts might seem to creep in.  About how Beckett doesn't really have all that much to say, and became increasingly mannered in his attempts to say it.  That his work is really just three variations on basic forms - the Godotesque double act; the old man or woman looking back over a (generally stunted) life; and the pattern plays/mimes.  You'll certainly want to rush and read something silly just for a breath of air; there's not much of the vaunted Beckett humour here.<br />Nevertheless, the collection brims with Beckett's best work - the remorselessly inventive radio play, 'All That Fall'; the sublimely tragic comedy, 'Krapp's Last Tape'; the infernal farce, 'Play'; the deconstruction of nostalgia, 'That Time'; the chamber poignancy of 'Ohio Impromptu'; the great theatrical experiments, 'Footfalls', 'What Where', 'Not I', 'Rockaby', which pushed the language of theatre way past its limits, undermining its boasts of 'live performance' and the functionality of language - in these texts, 'meaning', if there is such a thing, may reside in the stage directions.	2001-02-07
US	50178145	R9OG7UJ0K98ND	0802151167	120174814	Three Plays: Ohio Impromptu Catastrophe What Where	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Three very different examples of Beckett's later work.	Veering dangerously close to self-parody, 'Ohio Impromptu' is probably the most beautiful and least difficult of Beckett's last works.  It tells the story of a black-clad Reader who reads a story to a silent black-clad Listener, about a grieving man who has lost his lover, who sends him a man to comfort him, and who does so by reading to him...As a  work about loss and grief it is unsurpassed even in Beckett's work, and its description of lonely walks around Paris and Shades visiting from the dead are haunting, while the dutiful formal self-reflexivity does no real damage to the sentimentality.<br />'Catastrophe' is considered Beckett's only political play (I always thought 'Godot' was pretty political), written in support of Vaclav Havel in the early 80s when he was a jailed dissident playwright.  As politics, it is rather obvious and banal, but it also works as a play about the theatre, about the power struggle that is life and the usual 'universal' stuff.<br />'What Where' is one of the late pattern plays, where four characters perform a mime which is explained by one of them through megaphone.  Often taken as another political parable, this time about torture and confession in a system where truth cannot exist, its inspiration in Schubert's song-cycle 'Winterreisse' gives it a more human force.	2001-02-07
US	50178145	R2K9MIEE5K9M4C	0571104002	958053381	Not I	Books	3	3	4	N	N	A useful exercise to read before you see it on stage.	There is no way that reading this play can come close, even in imagination, to approximating the strange theatrical experience.  A mouth, just a mouth, suspended some feet above the stage, gabbles at speed for about fifteen minutes, as a woman, although claiming it is 'Not I', tells her life story of silent emotional repression finally released in ceaseless logorrhea, like one of Joyce's passive Dubliners finally shrieking.  This verbal onslaught is counterpointed by a silent auditor figure and his physical gestures.  Reading the play is very useful, however, just so you can get some idea of what the woman is saying if you ever do get a chance to see it performed.	2001-02-07
US	50178145	R1SPI269HSEWOZ	0460874713	474322786	Confessions of a Justified Sinner (Everyman's Library)	Books	4	9	12	N	N	The language is even more frightening than the plot.	Hogg's book was one of many 'Gothic' doppelganger novels produced at the time, as editor Cuddon makes clear in his introduction.  What sets 'Sinner' apart is the fierce, unforgiving, saturnine, phlegmatic, terse, Biblical, paganistic, ugly beauty of the vocabulary and phraseology (Hogg was a shepherd and a poet), suited to a narrative lashed with hate, murder, bigotry and terror, whose sheer violence connects it with another shocking Gothic one-off, Lautreamont's 'Maldoror'; the way the 'double' theme of the novel is embedded not just in the plot, but in the rich  formal patterning, from character groupings to the religiously and politically divided Scotland of its setting; and the wide literary adventurousness as a whole which, in its proliferation of stories, framing devices, and self-reflexivity create a labyrinthine, elusive, very modern text.	2001-02-07
US	50178145	R3OJ99MS2DQFJ2	0802130348	608650234	Waiting for Godot: A Tragicomedy in Two Acts	Books	5	1	3	N	N	Leave the angst to the adolescents.	The more Beckett you read, the more you realise how unimportant 'meaning ' is in his work.  Beckett's philosophy of life rarely extends beyond the anguishes of adolescent poetry - the meaninglessness of life, the directionlessness of modern man, the random absurdity (or is that a tautology?) of the universe) yada yada, with a bit of Proustian temporising thrown in.  Further, there's something numbing about vaunted 'universality', about transcending the local - something that means anything usually means nothing.<br />what's cherishable about 'Waiting for godot' is not its picture of the void, but the words used to fill it - more specifically, the games, the rhythms, the musicality, the clowning around, the echoes, repititions and verbal patterns; the way dialogue can fly off in any direction at the whim of the speaker, and yet always seems to come around to the same point.  <br />I also think a knowledge of Beckett's Resistance experience, as described by James Knowlson in his biography, enriches the play rather than diminishes it; while its depiction of an arbitrarily violent world is tangibly sickening and plausible rather than vaguely metaphorical.  Unlike 'Endgame', 'godot' doesn't make you feel like hanging yourself from a tree - well, it had ME tapping my feet.  With bittersweet melancholy, of course.	2001-02-07
US	50178145	RCB1GW9XKRX7C	0573018049	978402476	Jeffrey Bernard is Unwell (Acting Edition)	Books	2	5	5	N	N	Middlebrow Beckett.	Jeffrey Barnard was (in)famous in England for being a notorious inebriate, columnist, raconteur and wit.  This persona informs the play's setting and content, with Barnard waking up at 5 a.m., locked in a pub having fallen asleep in the lavatory (the set at the celebrated Old Vic production with Peter O'Toole was angled and distorted like a set for 'the Cabinet of Dr. Caligari', presumably to represent Barnard's mentally blasted mindset).  <br />Barnard proceeds to relate the story of his life as would a particularly entertaining drunk, through anecdotes and stream-of-consciousness memories.  We learn about his relationships with women, his impotence, his haunting the Soho world of Francis Bacon et al, his gambling and alcoholism, his professional life, his ill-health.  The various figures in his life referred to take part in his stories, some specific, if fictionalised, some generalised (e.g. 'Woman'), some hypothetical.<br />There is some suggestion that Bernard is in Limbo as he looks back on his life.  Certainly, despite the garrulous 'old boy' humour and relentless verbosity, one feels Waterhouse is straining for Beckett territory here, not just in the reference to 'Waiting for Godot'.  Like many Beckett protagonists, Barnard is an old man trapped in a failing body, trying to recuperate an identity or purpose from scattered stories that have become so polished in the telling that his humanity seems wiped out.  It's there too in the unconvincing silences of reflective deceleration that punctuate the general hi-jinx.  <br />Unfortunately, because Waterhouse was a personal friend of Barnard's (and appears here in a lovely anecdote), he is too indulgent , and the closing accusations levelled at him, as much fragments of his life as flaws in his personality, sound like a cosy valediction.  The play is often very funny, but the rambling structure means that it can be sometimes wearying and increasingly inert.	2001-02-07
US	50178145	R2MUYJUTSC09M1	0571097774	152533783	Breath and Other Short Plays	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Beckett's most famous joke.	Breath is the testing ground on the merit not only of Samuel Beckett, but modern drama as a whole.  When people (like my mother) want to sneer at either, they refer to 'Breath', a 45 second play of a heap of rubbish, a light fading up and out, two cries and a breath, breathing in and out.  You could argue that the linking of the inhaling and exhaling breath with the lighting offers a profound comment on the nature of theatre.  You might say that this linking of breathing, rubbish, crying, light and darkness is an allegory for life, although not as beautiful a one as the opening paragraph of Nabokov's 'Speak Memory' which uses similar terms.  You could, but you'd just look pretentious and ridiculous.<br />It is important to remember, however, that 'Breath' was conceived as a joke.  The critic Kenneth Tynan was putting on his infamous, erotic revue 'Oh Calcutta' and asked Beckett for a contribution.  The dramatist responded with a comically literal interpretation of heavy breathing, a sardonic comment on the revue to follow.  However, the biter was bit, as Tynan added unclad ladies to the rubbish to Beckett's fury (see James Knowlson's Beckett biography, 'Damned to Fame').  Serves him right!	2001-02-02
US	50178145	R1P9WDLO4XM9Z5	0571110320	83635657	That Time (Faber paperbacks)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	One of Beckett's most overpowering masterpieces.	Most of Beckett's plays follow one of three patterns - the Godot-like double act routine; the patterned, ritualistic plays; the plays where a man (sometimes a woman) looks back on, reflects on, or is confronted with his past.  'Krapp's Last Tape' is the most famous of these latter, although excellent variations include 'A Piece of Monologue' and 'Rough For Theatre 2'.<br />'That Time' is 'Krapp' taken to a manic, almost intolerable extreme.  Krapp was divorced from his memories by the recordings of past selves.  The protagonist of 'That Time' stands silent and mostly immobile listening to three conflicting monologues blaring at him from all sides.  Each monologue relates different periods from his life, and express the usual Beckett themes of solitude, concealment, failure, nostalgia, the impossibility of relationships, the fragmentation of personality, the ravages of That Time.  <br />What saves this from mere repetition is the astonishing rhythmic force of the language as the stories overlap, and the powerful beauty of each story, filled with haunting situations, memories, places, impressions and images that don't necessarily create or retrieve a life, which may not even true, or belonging to the Listener, but are certainly all any of us ever have left.	2001-02-02
US	50178145	R3MKJJNEDKDEFX	0571110401	893088669	Footfalls (Faber paperbacks)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A treadmill to nothingness? Haunting Beckett ghost story	Despite its mathematically precise stage directions (there's even a diagram), pinning down the dramatic events, 'Footfalls' is ultimately as elusive as its heroine, pacing endlessly up and down a strip of light, tending to her sick mother.  The pacing is interrupted by two monologues which may, or may not, tell the story of May's life - it is typical in a play with a literally self-effacing heroine that her story should haunt others' stories, that others should speak for her, that the imagery should be ghost-like, inchoate, tantalising; one voice doubled, splintered.  Her mother is a mere voice; by the end of the play, May is on her way - is this the natural fate of women for Beckett?<br />It goes without saying that such a visually precise play doesn't read very well, although there is an accumulation of words and feelings that is tremendously powerful.	2001-02-02
US	50178145	R201Q1RKI4JNLJ	0802151388	211986660	Rockabye and Other Short Pieces (Beckett, Samuel)	Books	3	3	3	N	N	A Beckett play that has had grown men (and women) in tears.	Probably the most famous of Beckett's last works, 'Rockaby' features an old woman rocking mechanically on her chair, listening to a recorded poem evoking a life perhaps similar to her own, solitary, staring out of her window at the shuttered windows opposite, yearning for a glimpse of humanity to justify a life she is close to cursing.  It reads like a skittish remix of a story from Joyce's 'Dubliners'. <br />Like most of Beckett's late stage works, this doesn't really work on the page - the rhythmic combination of words, images, lighting and the mechanical rocking of the chair create a startling visual-aural effect that can only be incompletely imagined.  Many believe it to be staggeringly moving, though.	2001-02-02
US	50178145	R17ERS9LFEIUVZ	0394475003	26587324	Endgame: A Play in One Act, Followed by Act Without Words, a Mime for One Player (English and French Edition)	Books	4	11	12	N	N	Two very different poles of Beckett's art.	'endgame' is one of Beckett's most famous works, generally considered to be his theatrical masterpiece, as a master and servant fight it out at the end of the world in somebody's decaying head.  Despite some very gallows humour, this is the Beckett aesthetic at its bleakest.<br />'Act Without Words' is very different.  The philosophy may be familiar - man's struggles to survive in a world powered by unseen, malevolent, sadistic forces - but this is treated almost (self?) parodically.  The play's main interest lies in its form.  Throughout his career, Beckett has been paring down his language to the limits of concision - here he finally abandons it, giving us a mime more than a little influenced by the slapstick silent cinema that has always fuelled his work.  I guess this is genuinely a case where you have to see it to appreciate it, but I had fun imagining proto-Beckett Buster Keaton in the role.	2001-01-31
US	50178145	R1JEWHS0YYOWK5	0192834312	767160526	Dr Jekyll and Mr Hyde and Weir of Hermiston (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Leaves the 'great' Victorians flailing.	The first half of this novella can be counted among the most remarkable writing I have ever read.  its sense of unstated terror and crisp, nightmarish atmosphere; its portentous introduction and proliferation of the double theme; its destabilising of its own narrative, where the violence of the language and the force of the metaphors makes the abstract material, and the material abstract; its evocation of London as a menacing organism, a miasma-wheezing labyrinth, with an economy that defeated Dickens, with streets and buildings embodying human flaws; its characterisation of a grim, barren, self-destructive men's world - all this take the novel away from the generic sensationalism or pseudo-scientific philosophy of the horror genre towards the metaphysical anxieties of Chesterton and Borges.<br />The rest is more familiar, made complex by innovative structure, ambiguous narration and a startling use of imagery.  this is not a simple tale of man's good and evil side; in its admission of an ungraspable, shifting, multifarious existence, shown here in character, place and language, where metamorphosis is the only rule, we can see why Nabokov considers Stevenson a master.  And yet the book also works as a lean, compelling thriller, even if, like everyone, you already know the twist.  Emma Letley's introduction and notes are over a decade old, and need updating.	2001-01-25
US	50178145	R1SE3PVMPTL8Q2	014044730X	856445562	The Misanthrope and Other Plays: A New Selection (Penguin Classics)	Books	4	10	12	N	N	Moliere seems closer to us than Shakespeare.	Although Moliere is only half a century younger than Shakespeare, he is less hard work - there is no elaborate rhetoric or difficult, metaphysical poetry.  dialogue is plain and functional.  This, of course, brings him nearer to us, and we are far more likely to meet a Tartuffe, say, in everyday life than a Lear or Hamlet.  <br />However, I don't think he's supposed to be this plain.  Wood's translation is a nimble, enjoyable read, but in the two translations, from French to English, from metre to prose, something has been lost; maybe not poetry, but certainly language.  What we are left with are breezily amusing farces - this is more than enough for me, but makes me wonder why Bloom had him in his canon.<br />'Tartuffe' is the most famous play in this collection.  Subject to censorship and interdiction in its time, Wood introduces the play with a preface and two petitions to the King from Moliere.  Although they are revealing about Moliere's absolute dependency on the monarch, and the need to flatter  culminating in the play's preposterous deus ex machina, they necessarily caricature the play's complexity.  <br />Tartuffe the religious hypocrite who tries to bring down the social order, who reveals the aristocracy's own hypocrisy (look at the amount of two-facedness needed to expose him), forces them down to his level, makes blatant the fundamental desires high society would prefer not to acknowledge - sex, food, wealth etc.  The true horror of Tartuffe's marriage with Marianne is not that he is a repulsive bigot, but because he is trying to wrest power and means from the nobility (a job already started by the Figaro-like maid).  I bet it wasn't really the Tartuffes who hated this play.	2001-01-25
US	50178145	R2W6BT3QYQCFSD	0140185011	37294671	Travels with My Aunt	Books	5	82	91	N	N	Alistair Maclean written by Barbara Pym - bon voyage!	'Travels' is not a great novel, not even a great Graham Greene novel.  It is flawed, mannered, contrived, old-fashioned, complacent; the work of a writer who has earned his laurels and is content to lounge on them.  The frequent allusions to then-modish Latin American fiction (the novel ends up in Paraguay) only exposes its lack of adventurousness.  Sometimes you wonder whether the maddening primness is the narrator's or the author's.  Too often, Greene resorts to caricature rather than character, and even the splendid figure of Aunt Augusta feels like a writerly short-cut.<br />But.  <br />'Travels' is one of the most purely pleasurable books I have ever read, largely due to the perfectly captured narrative voice, a middle-aged virgin, retired bank manager and dahlia expert unwittingly thrown into a world of smuggling, soft drugs, hippies, war criminals, CIA operatives, military dictatorships, and whose decent, limited tolerance keeps the fantastic narrative believable, but also blinds him to genuine horrors.<br />The book contains some of Greene's funniest writing; if he'd written it 30 years earlier he's have called it an 'entertainment', those more generic or populist works that weren't overtly concerned with great moral themes.  Today, these entertainments seem to have dated better than the 'serious' books.  <br />Of course, 30 years on and Greene can relax his style - the plot is less vice-like, the words don't imprison - rather, they eloquently express a developing consciousness and sensibility.  This is a story that proliferates with stories, some comic, some tragic, some parable-lie, all leading inexorably towards one untold story.  Like all Greene's novels, 'Travels' concerns modern man's search for home, and the ending is devastating, mixing imagistic beauty with characteristically flat cynicism.	2001-01-25
US	50178145	RBO5TE0Q1MNTF	0192838717	486185455	The Red and the Black: A Chronicle of the Nineteenth Century (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	4	29	30	N	N	More playful than reputation as 'realistic' classic suggests	A more entertaining treatment of the theme of the transgressive individual and hypocritical society than Camus' 'The Outsider'.  'The Red and the Black' is often held up as the starting point of 19th century European realism, and the book has the socio-historical breadth, narrative variety, powerful set-pieces and vivid characterisation we expect from such a term.<br />But in its breathless speed, deceptively casual style and weightless movement, making it read more like a thriller than a novel of social mores, it is a world away from the works of Dickens, Tolstoy or Balzac, which are too often grounded by detail; and closer to the Voltaire of 'Candide'.<br />Similarly, Stendhal's supple psychological analysis is not the rigid speculation of these masters, but a recognition of shifting, provisional consciousness more usual in James and Proust.  finally, the novel's formal playfulness, the interplay between narrator and his material, his ironically 'heroic', Dumas-like approach to his hero and the more bathetic reality foreshadow the 'anti-fiction' procedures of Nabokov.<br />The difference between the Oxford World's Classics tranlation (Catherine Slater) and the Everyman (Scott Moncrieff) is that the former is unpoetic, serviceable, but a great, lucid pageturner, while the Moncrieff is poetic, often beautiful, but frequently stumbling, tripping up over the Stendhalian pace.  Roger Pearson's OWC introduction brilliantly reveals the intricate patterning and allusiveness inherent in Stendhal's seemingly rushed prose; Everyman has a useful selection of major critical responses to the book (Balzac, Zola, Sainte-Beuve, James etc.).	2001-01-10
US	50178145	REUK362EMED5L	0140299947	416642512	Descent of Man: Stories (Contemporary American Fiction)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Often uneven, usually funny, always inventive.	As with most first collections of short stories, 'Descent of Man' is pretty uneven.  Too many stories feel like sketches for comedy shows, one joke spun out for pages.  There are a few that are Kafka-lite, others a little too in love with the sound of their own voice; the last story, in its detached misogyny, leaves a nasty taste in the mouth.<br />This is still a highly entertaining book.  Themes, subjects, charaters, motifs etc. recur, as the antiseptic, over-confident world of modern capitalism is blighted by beasts, nature, disasters: those things so alien to us we can never predict or destroy them, try as we might.  This is an ugly re-vision of Darwin, evolution in reverse, survival of the sneakiest.  The Boyle gallery of finks, thieves, perverts, latterday Josef Ks, cuckolds, killers, greed- and ambition-devouring monsters are not a pretty lot, but raise some delicious laughs.<br />There are some excellent pastiches here of Borges, Wells, Haggard etc., but, and perhaps this is the flaw, we're always reading Boyle.  'The Second Swimming' (about Mao's birthday celebrations), 'The Big Garage' (the mock-Kafka tale of a motorist's car breaking down) and 'The Extinction Tales' (an extraordinary catalogue of historical 'progress') at least are masterpieces.  A fun way to enjoy the end of the world.	2000-12-18
US	50178145	R3FH110ABNOOS8	0415048672	669747277	Titus Andronicus (Arden Shakespeare. Third Series (Cloth))	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Manly tears and excessive violence: the first John Woo film?	On a superficial first reading, 'Titus Andronicus' is lesser Shakespeare - the language is generally simple and direct, with few convoluted similes and a lot of cliches.  The plot, as with many contemporary plays, is so gruesome and bloody as to be comic - the hero, a Roman general, before the play has started has lost a wife and 21 sons; he kills another at their funeral, having dismembered and burnt the heroine's son as a 'sacrifice'; after her husband is murdered, his daughter is doubly raped and has her tongue and hands lopped off; Titus sacrifices his own hand to bail out two wrongfully accused sons - it is returned along with their heads.  Et cetera.  The play concludes with a grisly finale Peter Greenaway might have been proud of.  The plot is basically a rehash of Kyd, Marlowe, Seneca and Ovid, although there are some striking stage effects.<br />Jonathan Bate in his exhaustive introduction almost convinces you of the play's greatness, as he discusses it theoretically, its sexual metaphors, obsessive misogyny, analysis of signs and reading etc.  His introduction is exemplary and systematic - interpretation of content and staging; history of performance; origin and soures; textual history.  Sometimes, as is often the case with Arden, the annotation is frustratingly pedantic, as you get caught in a web of previous editors' fetishistic analysing of punctuation and grammar.  Mostly, though, it facilitates a smooth, enjoyable read.	2000-12-18
US	50178145	RU4ZNBDXNXI1Z	0375753117	863473949	The Captive & The Fugitive: In Search of Lost Time, Vol. V (Modern Library Classics) (v. 5)	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Uncomfortable masterpiece, full of ugly, brutal insights.	Four-fifths of this novel takes place inside a madman's head.  I don't just mean that he is a first-person narrator looking back over his life; he stays in his room, literally agonising over his lover, the captive of the title, wondering where she is, who she's with, unable to sift any kind of truth from a welter of lies, misinterpretations, suspicions, half-clues.  Above all, he's terrified she's a lesbian, and sees willing accomplices everywhere.  So there's more than one captive in this novel.<br />this cramped, interior, labyrinthine novel doesn't just range on jealousy - the narrator muses on time, art, place.  The governing motif is music, and there are some beautiful sections on the sounds of the street as an orchestra, the epiphanical premiere of a septet at a soiree, or Albertine playing on the pianola.  <br />For relief there is a 100-page escape from the house (and the narrator's obsessiveness), at the soiree, where we meet all our old friends, the Verdurins, Brichot, Morel, and the incomparable Charlus, heading for a terrible fall.  The move from interior psychologising to observational social comedy is literally fresh air - the whole sequence is beautifully modulated between comedy and melancholy.  <br />And yet it all comes back to this madman and a woman he doesn't even really love, becuse the freedom that made him love her in the first place has been stifled by him.	2000-12-18
US	50178145	R386FYMRM87TT1	0436099209	65109156	Melville on Melville (Cinema One)	Books	5	21	22	N	N	Final testament of an unsung genius.	This is one of those few books I take out every couple of years and which make me feel so happy.  The idea is the same as Truffaut's book on Hitchcock, a series of interviews between a master-filmmaker near the end of his career (Melville would be dead within three years) and an impressionable admirer.  <br />Melville is one of the great, still stupidly underrated mavericks of cinema, a self-confessed intransigent, most famous for his series of gangster thrillers (e.g. Le Samourai), which seeped the genre of all superfluity, and turned them into haunting, oneiric meditations on death.  <br />This is the conventional view - I think Melville is much larger, more full of life than that, and this wonderful book proves it.  'Melville on Melvile' is as full of technical information and memories of productions as you would expect, but it is also full of wit, anecdote, invective, love.  Most directors are diffident and barely articulate - Melville is, as he says himself, a monster, opinionated, self-obsessed, suffering no fools whatsoever - his generosity, wisdom, humour and intelligence bely his reputation as an austere existentialist; this book is full of insights into his own films and those of others that enrich both.<br />  He compares himself to Nabokov, and this is the best way to look at his work, more playful than it appears; but also this book, as Melville constantly makes fun of his interviewer, deliberately contradicting himself, or provoking him.  You have to read this just to find out how Godard really made A Bout De Souffle, the film in which Melville made his famous cameo as the novelist Parvelesco.  I love this man, I love his films, and I love this book.	2000-12-07
US	50178145	R20PSMXXTTDIT4	0786705213	511354772	The Blessing	Books	4	17	18	N	N	Mitford's most Waugh-like comedy.	Nancy Mitford's comic variant on 'The American' is certainly more FUN than Henry James ever was; after a bitty start, it turns into a classic comedy about cultural clashes, loneliness, abandonment, love.  Mitford's eye is strictly realistic in her attitudes, if not her style - in the tacit spaces, one can hear Grace's howls of despair.  <br />The book is full of exquisite characters - Charles-Edouard, dashing, aristocratic, Resistance hero who uses his Frenchness as an excuse for serial adultery; Sigi, the Blessing ot the title, a devious monster who sees his happiness in his parents' divorce; the variously sophisticated and cynical grandes dames of French society; the spectacularly pompous 'Heck' Dexter, millionaire advisor to the US President.  But Mitford not only has a gift for portraying eccentricity; she somehow makes dogged dullness palpable as in Grace's half-hearted suitor Hughie.  <br />This is Mitford's most Waugh-like novel - full of short, pregnant, elliptical scenes, told in terse, comic sentences.  The frustrating lack of structure means that scenes don't accumulate emotionally as they do in Waugh, leaving the book feeling a little thin (unlike her masterpieces, 'The Pursuit of Love' and 'Love in a Cold Climate'), but with this much pleasure, who cares?	2000-12-07
US	50178145	R1U79HPZ1830NE	0881845973	916671890	Don't Tell Alfred (Mitford, Nancy)	Books	4	13	13	N	N	Hilarious, yet sad end to priceless series.	this is the end of the immortal tetralogy that began with 'The Pursuit of Love', and reunites the hitherto discrete characters of 'Love in a Cold Climate' and 'the Blessing'.  It is as marvellously funny as ever, written with a disarming surface flippancy, full of seemingly alarming plots petering into nothing, like they do in life.  The inter-generational conflict is as marked as ever, although more recognisable to us as Fanny and her people finally face the modern world, which she does with remarkable composure, sense and good humour.  The intricacies of post-war Europe (Britain desperate for European unity? Arf!), diplomacy, national crises, the rise of the teenager, the tabloids and pop music give a solid grounding to the flights of eccentricity and romantic comedy.<br />After the Waugh-like economy of 'The Blessing', 'Don't Tell Alfred' is a much freer read, with less ellipses, more detail, and (I'm afraid), a little more padding.  Yet for all the big smiles it puts on your face, it reminded me of Anthony Powell's 'Hearing Secret Harmonies', the closing book of his massive novel, 'Dance to the music of time'.  Maybe it's because it's the last book  of the series, but there is an underlying melancholy throughout, as we see the dying world of the first three novels finally die.  Characters alive and vibrant in previous books are suddenly, unemotionally dead; the character of Cedric in 'Climate' undergoes serious revision; and it is dreadful to see mighty Uncle Matthew finally grounded by old age (although there's marvellous life in the old dog yet).  The most remarkable thing is Fanny's voice - once a shy, impressionable, envying onlooker, her middle-aged bossiness, confidence (despite the faux-naivete) and control here is beautifully ineffectual.  The Yanky Fonzy climax is a great way to end the series.	2000-11-22
US	50178145	R1RUOTQW9IOB4T	0719053668	302234726	Robert Bresson (French Film Directors MUP)	Books	4	16	16	N	N	A much needed introduction to a very difficult director.	To many, rather snooty, film critics, there are really only two or three great directors, one of whom is certainly Robert Bresson.  But Bresson is the most difficult  and least approachable of film masters, his films are full of pessimism, austerity, remoteness.  Most difficult for many is that he is a Catholic artist, and his films often don't makes sense without some prior knowledge of the religion (which is not the case with, say, Graham Greene).  Anyone who sees these cold, withdrawn, unyielding films might be surprised at those who find them deeply emotional and rapturous.<br />Keith Reader does an excellent job in explaining why this might be so.  His book is a very old-fashioned study in many ways - it discusses the films as the works of one genius, rather than the more conventional method of genre, ideology, psychology etc.; he draws on old-hat theories by the likes of Lacan.  But, though he cannot resist the odd slip of impenetrable jargon, this is a lucid study, explaining each work individually, outlining Bresson's methods and theories so precisely that you literally watch the films with new, more understanding eyes, open to epiphany.  The study of 'A Man Escaped' is particularly moving.	2000-11-15
US	50178145	R2DOYJHCSAIBAM	0140009841	937773479	Love In A Cold Climate	Books	4	8	11	N	N	Fanny-tastic!	I found this novel a teeny weeny bit disappointing after its superlative predecessor, 'the Pursuit of Love'.  I think if I compare the two, I can see why - 'Pursuit' packs about ten novels worth of incident into its slim frame, as terse, fast, heartless and comic as 'Candide' (Mitford wrote a biography of Voltaire), full of gaps and tacit implications.  'Climate' goes back to those gaps and fills them in, following as it does relatively the same time span.  This makes for a slower, more thoughtful book, which feels, on occasion, a little padded out.  Similarly, both books take their cue from their heroine - 'Pursuit' is as lively, adventurous, funny and adorable as Linda; Polly in 'Climate', though beautiful, is as dull as people find her, and so, when she is in it, is her book.<br />I say this relatively of course; on any other terms, 'Climate' is a comic joy, full of two sublime new characters, Lady Montdore, the imperious snob, and Cedric, the stereotypical queen from untypical Nova Scotia.  Add to these old favourites like Boy, Davey, and, especially, the immortal, phlegmatic Uncle Matthew; some choice set-pieces and an odd flash of the old callousness, and you have a real pleasure, especially in the second half.  'Climate''s breezy surface belies a real anger at the limited roles offered women.	2000-11-15
US	50178145	RBK0RXD5A9QJ2	0451521072	404758592	Andersen's Fairy Tales (Signet Classics)	Books	5	8	23	N	N	Staggering Surrealism.	'The Snow Queen' is possibly the greatest short story I've ever read.  Although its message is essentially Christian, its means of getting there is staggering, Surrealist and far from dogmatic.  There is an Alice quality to the heroine's narrative as she seeks her abducted playmate, full of singing flowers, helpful crows and robber barons - the songs of the flowers are full of sexually loaded and enigmatic imagery.  But the word-pictures as a whole are haunting, the blazing sheen of the snow, with the suggestive reds dotting it throughout.  The final puzzle is worthy of Borges.  Wow.	2000-10-18
US	50178145	R1SU86YWZHYRL6	0140185402	64429773	A Gun for Sale: An Entertainment (Penguin Twentieth-Century Classics)	Books	4	20	20	N	N	Flawed, but frequently sensational early Greene.	'A gun for sale' is considered a minor Graham Greene work, two years before his acknowledged first masterpiece, 'Brighton Rock'.  Admittedly, the book is hugely flawed - the plot becomes increasingly implausible; the dialogue is sometimes false; the characterisation, especially in the central relationship between Raven the runaway hitman and Anne, sometimes doesn't quite ring true.  But there is so much that is excellent - the mixture of dusty, fish and chips realism with almost whimsical fantasy, precise detail clashing with a nightmare-world of physical grotesques; the brilliant control of language, in which a deliberately limited vocabulary is used to imprison characters in  a social and implicitely metaphsical destiny.  The first half is a superb, almost intolerably nerve-wracking, thriller, and the second, as Raven seeks revenge during a practice gas raid, is dottily surreal.  The allusions to fairy tales, history , poetry, popular music, drama, philosophy etc. open the book from its generic base, and makes it infinitely richer than it first appears.  It should be read anyway by anyone who loves the cinema of Jean-Pierre Melville, who based his masterpiece 'Le Samourai' on it.  A flawed, yet fascinating work.	2000-10-11
US	50178145	RER942JQC0D8D	0850360897	646099933	Love	Books	4	39	45	N	N	The first 'Pale Fire'.	There are some readers, the editors of this volume for instance, who would like to reduce this astonishing book to an expression of Stendhal's love for an untouchable woman.  Anyone willing to look a little beyond armchair psychology will find a work that is possibly the first 'Pale Fire'.  On the surface the work is a philosophical and scientific discourse on the nature of love, and as such it has so much truth and insight that I urge you to give it to your loved one so that he/she might understand you a little better.  But this treatise is a translation from the inchoate notes left by an Italian suicide, Lisio Visconti.  It is full of anecdotes, stories, digressions, contradictions, repetitions, ellipses, declamations.  The writer's objectivity, Kinbote-like, is continually undermined by his obvious madness, his reminiscences of a failed love affair, and that of a friend, Salviati, who may also be Visconti.  This textual instability is a constant, playful joy, and perfectly mirrors the difficulties of the book's subject.	2000-10-11
US	50178145	R3GFB2YMTR0Z7R	0140444726	655438036	Jacques the Fatalist and His Master (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	24	30	N	N	Audacious and very funny.	Anyone who thrilled at Calvino's 'If on a winter's night a traveller...', but despaired at ever finding another book like it (uniqueness DOES have its price), need fear no longer.  'Jacques', acknowledged by Calvino himself as a major influence, is one of the great precursors of post-modern literature.  Like 'If on', the book is crammed with stories unfinished or interrupted by digressions, accidents, more interesting stories.  Whereas the 19th centruy novelist generally talked down to his audience and explained everything, Diderot gives his reader a lot of freedom, and one of the dialogues of this book, a la Calvino, is between author and reader.  Each story, incomplete or no, is a masterpiece of narrative (cinephiles might recognise the story of Madame de la Pommeraye as the basis of Robert Bresson's 'Les Dames du bois du Boulogne'); the formal experimentation does not mean blindness to a panorama of 18th century society - soldiers, peasants, thieves, innkeepers, aristocrats, prostitutes - and place (country, city, foreign climes) in a France on the cusp of Revolution.	2000-10-11
US	50178145	RUM5DX4HFRKGD	039455647X	574324278	A Capote Reader	Books	4	5	13	N	N	Erratic.	I think the test of Truman Capote as a writer is the section of this book called 'Portraits', sketches and longer pieces on the famous: actors, writers, photographers, fashion designers etc.  These are generally priceless.  The long article on Marlon Brando, for example, captures the enigmatic restlessness of this extraordinary actor in a way no writer (and few directors) has ever done, mostly by observation.  However, even here, there are passages, such as when Brando is on the phone, and Capote looks out the window and tries to describe local Japanese atmosphere, that are pure phoney baloney, an attempt to inject art into 'mere' reportage that mocks the latter while failing in the former.  His portrait of Marilyn Monroe is, again, the best I've ever read when it is merely observation, or a conversation between the auther and a real, believable, very likeable woman, but sheer bunkum when he tries to mythologise her, etherealising her on the beach.  At other times, his prose reads like something from Vogue in its arch superficiality.  These are genuine problems, but these portraits are highly readable - the piece on Gide and Cocteau is a little comic masterpiece.	2000-10-11
US	50178145	RBD1J9XLLOBRK	0486264769	348284256	Arms and the Man (Dover Thrift Editions)	Books	2	8	12	N	N	Too much social 'comment', not enough comedy.	Shaw, who more than any of his contemporaries dealt provocatively with the crucial issues of his day, has not worn well.  In a 1971 encyclopaedia I had as a child, the entry on GBS called him the greatest dramatist since  Shakespeare.  That's better than Moliere, Sheridan, Strindberg, Ibsen,  Wilde, Jarry, Chekhov, Brecht, Ionesco, Beckett!  Such a laughable  proposition is untenable today, and we can now see Shaw for what he is - a  superficially amusing farceur, who squandered this modest gift on deadly  social comment, deadly because he reduced issues that effected real people  to theorems, and reduced those people to mere mouthpieces.  There is no  subtext in Shaw - everything is expounded tediously and teeth-grindingly on  the surface.   ARMS AND THE MAN is one of his better efforts, and, after an  uncertain start, settles into some nice old-style farce - hidden  identities, buffoonish heroes, scheming servants, crusty old majors; when,  though, the puppets start lecturing us on war, idealism, class, gender  etc., one's heart sinks, not because what Shaw says isn't true, but because  a letter to the Times would have been a better place to say it.  While  Wilde's plays grow with the years, seeming richer, more meaningful,  brutally satiric, bursting with complex and fluid themes, Shaw's work, in  their steadfast refusal of mystery and ambiguity, seem chilly and remote.	2000-07-05
US	50178145	R3Q097N21X3SQV	0140443428	756063122	Maldoror and Poems (Penguin Classics)	Books	4	27	28	N	N	Perversely pleasurable for a while.	Although MALDOROR's most immediate pleasure is its naked nastiness - rape, murder, torture, paedophilia, bestiality, blasphemy etc. - the truly unsettling nature of the book is its textual instability, the violence of  its language, the horrible, concrete, surgical beauty of its images, the  haunting effect of its descriptions, its foregrounding and destabilising of  slowly compelling narrative, its clashing of tones, moods, viewpoints,  narrators, targets, sympathies. French literature produces a lot of books  like this, wherein a madman shouts the reader out of his complacency (e.g.  Rimbaud, Corbiere, the Gide of FRUITS OF THE EARTH).  This is better than  most because its disgust is funny and a thrill.  After book three, though,  it all becomes a little wearing and monotonous, as Lautreamont's assault is  more tediously preoccupied with language.  The same fault can be levelled  at the underrated, protean, difficult POEMS, where intellectual engagement  wins out over sensual overspill. Book Six of MALDOROR, though, is a  masterpiece of narrative subversion, simultaneously asserting the power of  stories and running riot through their conventions, looking forward to,  amongst others, Borges and Nabokov.  Knight's introduction is rewarding, if  a little dated, but the translation is one of the best I've ever read,  capturing Maldoror's rhythmic logorrhea to horrible perfection.	2000-07-03
US	50178145	R21QJZDX7AR2IY	0851705685	184365908	The Life and Death of Colonel Blimp (BFI Film Classics)	Books	3	8	11	N	N	The Archers deserve better.	This is a disappointing and frustrating monograph. Disappointing in that it concerns one of the staggering masterpieces of the greatest filmmakers of all time, the team of Michael Powell and Emeric Pressburger, and manages to capture only their sadness and intelligence, with little of their madness or danger. This is because, as an author-screenwriter, Kennedy concentrates on Pressburger, the screenwriter. Now, Pressburger is a too often marginalised figure, and a crucial component of the Archers' magic, providing the bass-line spirit, wit and humanity of the films, but to reduce Powell's overwhelming contribution to a couple of patronising lines is to miss the essence and tensions of BLIMP (and surely, as a Scot, she might have found his Celtic roots interesting). A screenplay is not even a tenth of a film, it is the bricks with which the director builds a house. Kennedy's book is an analysis of the script, not the film; she betrays little meaningful knowledge of cinema, and so cannot explain the film as a visual experience, beyond a few platitudes. BLIMP contains arguably the greatest shot in all cinema - as Powell pulls back from the duelling scene - but Kennedy is unable to respond to it satisfactorily. Powell and Pressburger films are such an emotional experience that it is difficult to discuss them analytically. Kennedy offers a very personal, autobiographical response to the film which chimes very much with my own, but sometimes you want to shake her, and ask for something a lttle less comforting and vague. The book is frustrating, not only in its narrow focus, but in its nagging, repeated inaccuracies (Jack Cardiff did not photograph the film, he was a mere Technicolour cameraman - Powell liked his work, and asked him to shoot later Archers' films; the nurse and Barbara Wynne are the same character etc.), its lack of cinematic context or original research, its evasion of whole sequences at the expense of those that fit the thesis. It is extraordinary, though, that in a piece that discusses various notions of 'Home', Kennedy doesn't mention the play Clive attends, 'Ulysses'. So why three stars? Because just reading about one of my favourite films is such a pleasure. Because Kennedy is so nice, clear and familiar, and we share quite a lot in common. Because in between the reassuring padding, she comes up with the odd unique insight that startles you into rethinking old assumptions.	2000-06-29
US	50178145	R1VF0GYCPAXDEU	0140105557	414046912	Death at the President's Lodging (Classic Crime)	Books	3	7	20	N	N	Pushing at the limits of Golden Age detective fiction.	Had Borges ever read this classic detective novel?  I'm not suggesting Innes bursts the boundaries of his form like Borges or Chesterton.  On its most obvious level, this is a typical product of Golden Age detective  fiction - conservative, obviously ideological, a puzzle-like mystery solved  by a socially and intellectually superior detective, archly written, set in  a socially acceptable milieu (an Oxbridge college) full of the right  people, with amusing instances of outright snobbery. But if he doesn't  burst his genre's limits, Innes certainly seems to nag at them.  Because,  in his almost complete abstraction of plot to the exclusion of meaningful  character or locale ; in his filtering of third person objective narration  with the voices of the narrated; in his continual self-referentiality; in  his meaningful allusinism which both focuses on the genre, but also well  away from it; in, most importantly, casting doubt on his detective hero and  offering a very unsatisfactory solution, Innes seems to be edging towards a  position that would allow Borges to launch his metaphysical fantasies, thus  undermining the very fundamentals of the genre he's working in.	2000-06-12
US	50178145	RTGALZVWEGCF9	0345420438	352579083	The Tailor of Panama	Books	4	3	5	N	N	Flawed, maybe, but literally fantastic.	THE TAILOR OF PANAMA is considered second league le Carre, and maybe on one level it is.  The novel is a fantasy about fantasists, about sinister powers fabricating a pretext for invading a Central American country.  The  novel is futuristic (set in 1997 and after, published in 1996), and ends in  terrifying apocalypse.  <br />The problem is that the move from character  comedy to political fabulation is implausible.  The first is incredibly  rich, detailed and convincing, the latter is rushed and vague, especially  when you consider that le Carre's best novels compel on account of their  seeming, almost penantic, authenticity.  I just didn't believe that five  men having dinner could contrive a war, not because it isn't possible, but  because it wasn't made believable as literature.  Ironically, some of the  book's best writing is in this section, as Pendel's guilt takes on a  hallucinatory and oneiric texture.<br />Otherwise, this is another deceptively  lovely le Carre novel.  The first 2/3 give us two wonderful characters,  Harry Pendel, the endearingly waffling East End convict turned tailor to  the mighty, who, through bad financial decisions, and a badly concealed  past, is forced into intelligence work, with deadly results; and Andrew  Osnard, his spymaster, a callous, unloveable, fat Lothario, determined to  amass the fortune that is his by right, with a dodgy history of his  own.<br />The mixture of sunny farce and jolting horror is realised with  unfailing mastery; the potentially unwieldly series of revelations is  beautifully orchestrated; and the sublime gallery of supporting players,  all verging on caricature, probably confirm the frequent comparisons  between le Carre and Dickens.  Only the romanticised portrait of Marta  grates.<br />When we think of great writing, it is often in terms of expertly  constructed, poetic, elegant sentences, such as Nabokov or Proust.   Compared to these masters, le Carre might seem a little ordinary.  This is  a novelstuffed with words, indeed it might seem overwritten.<br />But just as  in the cinema, Bunuel's 'plain' style masks a profound elegance of form, le  Carre's excellence is as an ironist, and if we pay too much attention to  what is being said, if we lose critical distance, we founder, because every  important character is a liar, for whatever reason, and their lies make us  distrust everything that's said, as the novel is told teasingly through  (very faulty) point of view.<br />Eventually, we cannot credit anything we  read, as we might expect in a world where moral values simply do not exist  (and Panama is still corrupt, Pendel or not), or if they do (in the case of  Marta) they pay an intolerable price.<br />Traditional literature, be it  generic of 'Victorian', the very book we're reading, is co-opted as  unreliable, and we are left with a whole lot of nothing, where the pressure  to make and remake one's self (Pendel is the classic European who comes to  America to begin a new life) only obliterates that self.	2000-04-12
US	50178145	R55MXFSL3J26R	1874166277	583329039	Introducing Wagner: A Graphic Guide	Books	4	8	13	N	N	Facile, but fun.	There are three unavoidable truths about Wagner: that he was one of the most repellent men who ever lived; that he was one of the greatest geniuses that ever lived; and that people either love him or hate him.<br />Michael  White's highly entertaining introduction to this horrifying figure  concentrates mostly on the first 'fact' - it is, after all, easier to list  someone's biographical failures than explain why the closing symphony of  the Gotterdammerung sounds both like the terrible end of the world and the  unaccountable essence of sublimity (I'm afraid he gets you talking this  way).<br />And so, amusingly, we are told about Wagner's cruelties, caprices,  infidelities, and, of course, his anti-Semitism; and given an interesting  guide to some of the more sensible influences (eg Schopenhauer, Proudhon)  on Wagner's loony philosophies, and a sound cultural and political  background.<br />This proper emphasis on the man rather neglects the artist,  and while White quite rightly argues the impossibility of separating both,  you don't get much sense of the sheer magnitude of Wagner's achievement  (using the odd big word isn't enough), or what it means for us, the  listener, to be entranced by the works of such an ogre.<br />That said, the  sheer readability and cheek of this book, as with all others in this  series, is great fun, even if it doesn't achieve its aim (to make you  master of the subject) as the book on Post-Modernism did.<br />The chief joy  of this series, however, is the illustration, and Kevin Scott keeps up the  remarkably high standard, fusing dada, colage, pop art, with some  astonishing pastiche and cartoon work, which means every page, even if you  are dissatisfied with its contents, is a pleasure to read.	2000-03-29
US	50178145	RFRHHK4BU4ZZ8	0520065808	200348259	Complete Poems	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Leaves 'Night Mail' chugging behind.	The second long poem in this volume, 'Trans-Siberian Express and little Jeanne of France' is a vast improvement on its derivative predecessor, 'Easter in New York'.  We can feel beginning  the Cendrars mode in full  flow, the extended, rhythmic, almost Whitman-like expansiveness.  <br />The  poem details a trip by the poet through Russia on the titular train during  the 1905 Russian Revolution and Sino-Russian War.  It contrasts his  vagrant, poverty-stricken life with the inhuman brutlity of war (a  foretaste of the mechanistic infernoes of the 20th century); the forward  movement of the train with his development as a poet - the poem is as much  about the writing of a poem as an historical travelogue.<br />Cendrars'  modernity is apparent in the poem's rhythms, often simulating the thrilling  momentum of a hurtling train, as often breaking off, lurching, rattling.   His 'plain' imagistic power is at full steam (horrible pun), as much at  ease with awe at travelling through a new, alien country, as disgust with  the horrors of war (the mutilated arms of soldiers dance in a passing  carriage), and the sadnesses of those lives marginalised by great events,  such as the little prostitute of the title.<br />Although deriving much of its  energy from nascent modernity, the poem also traces the connection between  science and progress with war, barbarity, apocalypse, the forward thrust of  humanity leading only to its destruction.  But it is in the detail that  life affirms itself, and the closing rejecting, melancholy coda cannot  quite dispel the rush of the journey.	2000-03-29
US	50178145	R2346MFYLMQH9E	080576352X	446446263	Tristan Corbiere (Twayne's world authors series ; TWAS 511 : France)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Overlooked study of overlooked poet.	The bizarre neglect, even in his own country, of this great poet, is outrageous, especially considering his influence on modern poetry in the shape of Laforgue, Eliot and Pound.  I can find no edition of his work  here, and must be contented with extracts in William Rees' Penguin  anthology of French poetry.  In a lifetime blighted by ill-health, poverty  and alienating rebellion (he was one of Verlaine's original poets maudit),  he only published one volume of poetry.<br />Although staying largely within  conventional forms, Corbiere's poetry push these to breaking point, with  the violent, phlegmatic language, frequently obscure imagery,  hallucinatory, stuttering rhythms, and broken metre.  His 'Litany of Sleep'  was acclaimed by Surrealists, - it is a compelling barrage of variations on  its titular theme, suggesting sleep as a nightmare, fertile flipside to  bourgeois normality.  Other poems range form the gunkily self-lacerating  'The Toad' and self-negating 'Epitaph' to the bleak, not-so-fantastical  wasteland of 'Evil Landscape'.<br />Mitchell does an excellent job of  entangling Corbiere's briary method, and revealing the artistry behind the  very difficult, seemingly unyielding voice.  His discussion of the Tristan  persona and ironic techniques suggest, to me at least, that Corbiere  uncannily foreshadowed the procedures of Nabokov, although I haven't come  across any references to him in literature on the Russian.<br />In the absence  of an available edition, Mitchell contains generous excerpts from  Corbiere's work, and, unlike most English studies of French literature, he  does not disdain the non-French speaking reader.  Sometimes he protests too  much, going round in circles and repeating himself; mostly though, this is  an excellent and thorough piece of proselysation that unfortunately failed  in its aim to place Corbiere at the forefront of modern poets.	2000-03-27
US	50178145	R3Q7SY6GRLN361	0140423850	416855217	The Penguin Book of French Poetry: 1820-1950; With Prose Translations (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	47	47	N	N	Essential, boundless and life-enhancing	One of the great books of the last century, one that never leaves my bedside.  Covering the period 1820-1950, this is a canon of extraordinary, varied richness in all culture, never mind French poetry, from the Romantic  movement (Lamartine, Huge) to 'Negritude' (Cesaire), and encompassing  Surrealism, Symbolism, Lyricism, Cubism, Metropolitanism and Modernity, the  Parnassian movement etc.  All the giants are well-represented - Baudelaire,  Mallarme, Verlaine, Rimbaud, Laforgue, Cendrars, Michaux etc - but the  collection's real joy is its recuperating journey of poetry's byways,  finding forgotten figures, curiosities, one-offs, such as Tristan Corbiere,  Anna de Nouilles, or Charles Cros.  Dip in at any page, and you will be  treated to poetry of unmatched beauty, strangeness and invention.<br />After a  brief introduction explaining his selection process, and an invaluable  technical note on the 'alexandrine', the dominant metre of French poetry,  editor/translator William Rees divides his material into historically  discrete sections, prefacing each movement and poet.  These essays are an  accessible mine of invaluable historical, biographical and cultural  information.  His prose translations, although 'poetic' in themselves, are  much preferable in their more literal accuracy, to those translators who  abandon faithfulness for some vague notion of 'spirit' which usually only  leads ot silliness.  A gem of an anthology that deserves a prominent,  beloved, dog-eared place on the bedside of any lover of literature.	2000-03-22
US	50178145	R3E14NY32SQERP	0573608792	211203207	Faith Healer: A drama	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Astonishing - an unexpected, troubling, evasive masterpiece.	If, like me, you had Brian Friel down as some sort of bog-trotting hickster, an intellectually acceptable John B. Keane if you like, prepare to be astonished.  4 monologues, 3 characters, 2 ghosts, 2 crucial  incidents.  Faith healer, wife/mistress, Cockney manager.  Visit minor  villages of Celtic Britain doing their act - miscarriage; fatal  confrontation with Donegal yokels.  Crosscurrents of memory, self-interest,  self-mythologising, and evasion litter witness-accounts, contradicting,  negating, enriching.<br />You can read this remarkable text in a number of  ways (it helps to remember the lovely James Mason played Frank in the first  performance): as a Nabokov/Banville-like narrative of an amoral,  charismatic monster with a beguiling way with words, whose very artistry  facilitates some kind of transcendence; as an analysis of the artist, the  necessary mixture of fraudulence and healing power; as a story of brutal  men and the pain they wreak on their women.  So much more.  The play is  full of words, rich, incantatory words that seem to spin a fragrant web of  matchless b.s., and yet, at the end, dissolve phantasmogorically,  transforming provincial crime into an enchanted, disembodied, visionary  realm.	2000-03-20
US	50178145	R1N7VTVD1YWK48	0679779159	698950156	How Proust Can Change Your Life	Books	5	152	166	N	N	Roll uproll up, tickets for the great Proust adventure here	This book has been ludicrously dismissed as 'facile' by sniffy snobs.  The dismaying fact remains that in this age of overcrowding media vying for our attention, you have to be pretty convincing to make people want to give a  large chunk of their lives to a 4000 page novel about sponge cakes, silly  aristocrats and sickly fops.  <br />De Botton manages this with ease.  His  book is an excellent precis of Proustian concerns - time, love, friendship,  literature - told in deceptively simple language masking thoroughness and  complexity.  His aren't the last words on these subjects, they are starting  points which allow the virgin reader a map when starting on the vast  terrain of A La Recherche.<br />His own prose is elegant, suggestive and  sometimes very funny, while his emphasis on the personal is at the same  time endearing, a way into the book, and true to Proust.  He fills in his  narrative with much biographical, historical and anecdotal matter, drawing  on letters, newspapers, memoires, which are both illuminating and  entertaining.<br />His own method is seemingly the opposite of Proust's,  immediately lucid and precise, but the form of his book follows the  Proustian pattern, whereby the book heading in one direction turns in on  itself, becomes a book about itself, its own creation, even negating itself  as it tells us to abandon Proust if we want to be true to the spirit of  Proust.<br />The book isn't perfect - sometimes the prose is a little TOO  easy; both Proust and De Botton come across as near-saintly figures, full  of understanding and kindness, when the truth (with Proust at any rate) is  much messier; and the last two chapters are a little rushed.  But few books  outside the thriller genre have delighted me and kept me reading feverishly  to the end like this little trinket.	2000-03-16
US	50178145	RG0UUZOTTUWC7	0520065808	200348259	Complete Poems	Books	3	7	10	N	N	Brilliant verse, not sure about the translation.	Blaise Cendrars is often considered the great poet of modernity and metropolitanism, and the opening long poem here, 'Easter In New York', certainly grapples with the present, as the starving, despairing narrator  wanders through the Big Apple by night, confronted with prostitutes,  beggars, deformed musicians, thieves; stared at with hostility by  strangers, afraid of his own shadows.  The trash-filled seediness of New  York, the tense ethnic melting-pot, the spiritual banality of capitalism  (in the form of Banks and skyscrapers), the jostling mechanisation of the  mob, the roaring subways are all vividly captured.  This is largely  achieved by the insertion into Cendrars' famously plain style of unfamiliar  or violent words that create a sense of wrenching alienation.<br />What is  bizarre is that Cendrars frames this modern narrative with a monologue  addressed to Jesus on Good Friday. At first when he bemoans the lack of  spirituality under modern capitalism, his visits to dank libraries to look  up famous artistic representations of the Passion , as well as books and  hymns, we may feel a conservative impulse.<br />But the more the poet  ruminates on representations - rather than manifestations - of Christ, the  more we notice that it is Good Friday, the day Jesus died, all the year  round; that there is no redemptive resurrecton in this living hell where  even suicide is too expensive.  <br />This again mirrors the language's  development.  The poem's form is a series of steady, regular, rhymed,  Latinate couplets, but as the language, images, sentiments become more  violent, despairing, urgent, this form  begins to burst until the final  hallucinatory denial suggest escape.  Some of the verses, such as the  narrator accompanying God down a nameless street, His side gashed, the  houses filling with blood, the occupants withering with sin, have a Wildean  savour (I'm thinking of his stories and prose poems) as if to bridge the  gap between the ancient and modern.<br />There is an excellent introduction,  by Jay Bochner, to Cendrars' life and art in this book, and the  translations (by a practicising poet, Ron Padgett) have been acclaimed by  prestigious worthies like the great John Ashbery, but they seem problematic  to me.  Padgett's attempt to translate the poems as verse results in many  distorting omissions and cmpromises, and reduces Cendrars's methodical  rhythms to singsong.  It's okay  for the likes of me, I have enough French  to struggle with the original, but English readers might lose something.   In one case he translates the word 'aube', clearly meant in the context as  'alb' (the priest's vestment), as 'dawn', its other meaning, used punningly  throughout.  This makes me fear for the rest of the text's accuracy.	2000-02-24
US	50178145	R3RDJC8RJFIOQD	014043626X	735940559	Jules Laforgue: Selected Poems (Penguin Classics)	Books	4	2	4	N	N	Thrilling verse from the father of modern poetry.	Jules LaForgue, for so long underrecognised in his own country, is now seen as the father of modern poetry, especially influential on the work of Eliot and Pound in terms of persona, language, reaction to modernity, and  the violent incongruity of his metaphors and images.<br />This edition boasts  excellent prose translations of the poems by Graham Dunstan Martin.  These  may be insufficient for the non-French speaker, but the problem with  translations that try to catch the spirit of the original rather than the  detail, such as Ron Padgett's translations of Blaise Cendrars, is that  necessary omissions can lead to dilution and distortion.  So, I suppose,  this book is best recommended for those, like myself, who have a smidgeon  of mediocre French, and can compare their own efforts against Martin's  grammatically correct translations.<br />His introduction is refreshingly free  of jargon, and with great simplicity, he details LaForgue's tragically  early life, his intellectual precusors, his cultural milieu, his themes and  his methods.  LaForgue's poetic skill often has to transcend the essential  banality of his philosophy, and Martin's discussion of LaForgue's pervasive  irony seems to suggest that his work is often about nothing at all if every  comment, even if it's 'ironic' is ironically cancelled out by irony (oh  yes).<br />The first selection of which I've just read is largely juvenelia  entitled 'The Grief Of the Earth'.  Martin warns of the young LaForgue's  vulnerablility to Hugo's influence, based on considerable rhetorical  bombast, and these poems aren't free of railing against God, the weather,  'ordinary' people, the world, the Unconscious.<br />But even this early in his  oeuvre, LaForgue shows remarkable brilliance.  He uses conventional forms,  such as the sonnet or lyric, but rends their frames with the exciting  violence of his vocabulary, the unnerving juxtapositional clashes he  achieves.  His poems often start out as one thing, offering acertain set  of emotions, which, through irony, and exagerration, become something  totally different, more disturbing.  The 'Lament of the Notre-Dame  organist' is a case in point.  The hero begins grieving movingly for his  dying lover, but he gets so carried away by his grand sentiments, that he  thinks her already dead, and savours the lashing he'll give to the  Almighty, and the eternal doleful Bach fugues he'll play.  A pitiable,  Romantic, lover has become something much more modern and  disturbing.<br />It's not all violence though.  There is a lovely debate  between a clown and Jesus over the paradox of free-will and God's  omniscience; a strange lament by lonely Parisians for the superficial, but  gay and alive,  high society that has abandoned them during winter; a danse  macabre by a grotesque infant whose mother calls him beyond the grave; and  a mellow, despairing tribute to poetry, cigarettes and dreams as escapes  from the living death that is our existence.  I can't wait to try  LaForgue's more mature work.	2000-02-23
US	50178145	R2LA41HR1VPH6A	014043626X	735940559	Jules Laforgue: Selected Poems (Penguin Classics)	Books	4	2	6	N	N	Heady magic from the founder of modern poetry.	My last review was not accepted, possibly because I mentioned a LaForgue poem in which the poet smokes a 'cigarette' to escape existence as living death to dream, among other things, of mating elephants engaged in ritual  dances.  Of course, in no way was I condoning such escapism, and I'm not  entirely sure that LaForgue was either, rather bemoaning the need for  passive actions to retaliate against stagnant modernity.<br />LaForgue is most  notable as the forerunner of Pound and Eliot, and there are startling  similarities between his work and Prufrock and Other Poems, namely the  persona adopted, the grappling with and alienation in modernity, the  perverse wistfulness, the scalpel-clear language, and the violent  non-conventional juxtapositions of images and metaphors.<br />Dunstan Martin  gives an accessible, thorough, jargon-free introduction to LaForgue's  tragically brief life, his cultural context, his themes and his methods.   Sometimes his connections are a little simplistic, and his defence of  LaForgue's 'irony' seems to self-cancel everything he wrote, but generally  the introduction is a model of clarity.<br />I have just read LaForgue's early  work, 'Le Sanglot De La Terre' (the grief of the earth).  Martin warns that  much of this juvenelia is negatively influenced by the bombastic rhetoric  of Victor Hugo, and there's a lot of chestthumping, browbeating and wailing  at Fate, the skies, the Unconscious etc.<br />There are, also, however, some  remarkable things. The poems themselves are fairly conventional formally,  sonnets, lyrics, ballads etc., but LaForgue reefs them to bursting point  with the violence of his language, the startling imagery, and the mocking  exageration.  One masterpiece is a lament by a church organist for his  dying lover; so carried away does he get by his grief, that he thinks of  her as already dead, and talks about how he is going to spectacularly rail  against the heavens, and play eternal Bach fugues for the rest of hislife.   What had been a moving and despairing elegy becomes something much more  complex and troubling in the emotions it provokes.<br />The variety of his  subject matter is remarkable, and not always so aggressive.  There is a  lovely poem framing a debate between a street clown and Jesus over free  will and God's omniscience, which the latter fudges; and a childlike lyric  of heartbreaking, melancholic, wistful beauty about, perversely, the  dreariness of Paris in the Winter when the bright, gay social world moves  to the country.  This is so good for juvenelia I cannot wait to move on to  his more mature work.	2000-02-17
US	50178145	R1GT4YON3XRT00	0811202208	764744414	The Glass Menagerie (New Classics Series)	Books	3	3	11	N	N	Much better than I'd expected, but it's not exactly classic.	When I was young I saw two astonishing Kazan movies and thought Tennessee Williams was a genius, the greatest playwright who ever lived.  I didn't realise then that a script is of minor importance to great films.<br />Then I  read his Collected Prose - florid, flat, dead things - and I assumed he was  a pretty bad, overrated writer whose continuing reputation was largely  thanks to an awesome Brando performance.<br />So I approached this play with  extreme negativity, and I was pleasantly surprised.  Much of it is  unbearable - the control-freak stage directions, written with the most  pretensious, unreadable floweriness imaginable, pointing out to us all the  film's themes and observations like we're idiots, stressing obvious  effects; the rather misogynistic wallowing in victim-glorification; the  trite metaphors that are actually explained within the play.  <br />But,  especially in this written version, there is a lot of fun.  Even when I  admired Williams, I always thought that what you saw is what you got.   There didn't seem to be much irony, and once you've realised that Tom, gay,  spends most of his nights on the docks with willing sailors, you've pretty  much grasped the subtleties.<br />But Williams here subverts his own play by  making hilarious use of a screen to print flippant, bathetic legends or  illustrative slides over the action, making ridiculous the ostensible play.   The whole thing is in Tom's head anyway, and he seems to mock his own  nostalgic emotion.  It's impossible to be caught up in Laura's despair when  you've got a sniggering screen gloating behind her.<br />Unfortunately,  Williams abandoned this device for performance, and The Glass Menagerie has  been ossified as the grim tragedy it so obviously isn't.  While his preface  urging this play as experimental theatre is risible to anyone who's read  Beckett or Ionesco, it at least shows that he recognised his own narrow  limits.<br />That's not to say that the play itself has no merits.Williams  could, I admit, have a wonderful way with dialogue, that builds up a  strange emotional power based on banalities.  The main characters are  sympathetically drawn, and occasionally break out of their simplistic  conception.  All in all, much better than I'd feared.	2000-02-16
US	50178145	ROFDJL3P9XG9V	014043626X	735940559	Jules Laforgue: Selected Poems (Penguin Classics)	Books	4	3	6	N	N	Startling juvenelia from the father of modernist poetry.	Martin's introduction is so jargon-free that it almost feels unscholarly.  However, he manages to essay economically LaForgue's biography, his times, ideas, personality, themes, development, method and their demonstration in  his work.  Sometimes this can be a little simplistic, at others a little  confusing.  For example, Martin discusses at great length LaForgue's irony.   This is fair enough, it is an important weopon in any writer's arsenal,  especially one so phlegmatically iconoclastic as LeForgue.  <br />However,  whenever Martin decides what LeForgue's theme is, or whenever he does  something a little gauche, he negates with irony.  If everything LeForgue  says is ironical, even the irony, than he's not really saying anything, is  he?  Better is his analysis of LeForgue's immense influence on modern  poetry, especially on Pound and Eliot.  His sensibly chosen examples show  how indebted Prufrock and Other Poems was to LaForgue, in the persona  developed, the language used, and the startling, non-conventional effects  of clashing images and metaphors.<br />I have just read LaForgue's first  works, Le Sanglot De La Terre (the grief of the earth).  This is  essentially his juvenelia, and Martin warns of his indebtedness to Hugo,  his youthful pomposity and arrogance.  This may be true, but if you're used  to timid English poetry, even adolescent stuff like this is astonishing.   LaForgue is most famous for developing the first French free verse style,  but in these poems he adopts conventional forms.  However, these burst with  such violence, his words are barely containable ravages at decorum, his  daring is so wildly out of proportion that one cannot fail to be excited.   <br />Some of these poems are extraordinary.  In one a church organist laments  his dying lover.  So carried away is he with his sorrow that he dreams  already of her death and the  immense grieving he is going to offer.  In  another he extols the escapist pleasures of narcotics as an antidote to the  living death that is life.  There are wailings against God, the elements,  fate, the Unconscious.   One lovely poem frames a debate between Jesus and  a clown over free will and God's omniscience, with the former fudging the  matter.  <br />But there are also quieter, more gently melancholic poems, such  as the lament of the Parisian poor for the gay bright aristocracy, whose  winter absence makes the city seem desolate, and yet whose transformative  power is also a kind of death.  These are so good I cannot wait to try  LaForgue's more mature work.	2000-02-14
US	50178145	R1MYWREX7ZJ3YC	0333406974	568560147	Marcel Proust (Palgrave Modern Novelists Series)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	A good, if limited, introduction to a forbidding masterpiece	This is a very accessible, readable introduction to a very very long and thematically complex work, which is illuminating and perceptive without resorting to tedious jargon (his quotations from the book are in English  too, which is a relief for those with non-Proust level French academics  usually ignore).  His thematic divisions are sensible and  lucid, and if  you don't always agree with him than such is the nature of debate.<br />He is  endearingly evenhanded in discussing the great writer, acknowledging and  revelling his genius, while pointing out crucial flaws, failures, evasions  and unexpected conservative elements.  He also draws unexpected paralells  with other works of literature, such as the marvellous comedies of PG  Wodehouse.  <br />The book's main blemish lies in the writer's seeming lack of  familiarity of literature outside his field, and especially of different  theories of the erotic, for example.  He suggests that English literature  has been slow in analysing the psychological and social complexities of  sado-masochism, and refers to Anthony Powell.  Is it because he is not  interested in Angela Carter or John Banville that their major contributions  are ignored?  His attitude to sexual relations are also rather quaint,  referring, for instance, to homosexuality and lesbianism as sexual  deviances.	2000-02-03
US	50178145	R1602EXKVXLR6M	0375753125	715428078	Time Regained: In Search of Lost Time, Vol. VI (Modern Library Classics) (v. 6)	Books	5	40	43	N	N	Intimately beautiful in spite of reputation for grandeur.	Alright, so I'm a cheat.  I never thought I'd get beyond admiring the bright spanking six volumes of A la recherche (3700 pages! Phew!) on my bookshelves, but when it was announced that Raul Ruiz had made a film of  the last book, I seized my chance.  Thanks to this brilliant edition you  can, because at the end is an exhaustive guide to Proust, listing every  character, historical person, place and theme of the whole work, so that  just by referring regularly to this you quickly catch up with what's going  on.  Of course this isn't the same as living with characters and events  through literature, but this volume is so amazing you can't fail to want to  begin the whole thing and experience them from the start.<br />This is, as I  expected, one of the most beautiful and exciting books I have ever read, as  well as one of the most frustrating and irritating.  What is most  surprising, for a book claimed as one of the two greatest of the century,  is how old-fashioned it is (compared to the still startlingly modern and  socially relevant ULYSSES).<br />  It has two types of narrative.  One, about  a young middle class boy who penetrates society, is a mixture of social  comedy and tortured romance familiar to anyone who has read a great  Victorian novel - there is the same social analysis of an outmoded caste,  wide range of characters, poetic evocation of place.  <br />The language, once  you get used to the involved, elaborate sentences, is very accessible in a  Jamesian kind of way, intricately psychological and analytical, yet  supremely elegant and radiant, with a verve and lightness remarkable for  such a heavy book.  <br />The translation is, for once, remarkable - it can  never be the original, I guess, but you rarely feel that you are getting  only half the work like you usually do.<br />The second half is less  satisfactory.  As is appropriate to a book concerned with time, the book's  forward progress is constantly impeded, by degressions, flashbacks,  fastforwards, explanations.  The book, like those of Anthony Powell (if you  loved THE DANCE TO THE MUSIC OF TIME, you'll adore this) is less straight  plotting, than a series of monumental set-pieces.<br />  This novel is 450  pages long, but has only about three events - the narrator going back to  the country to stay with friends; the first world war; a huge party.  These  are mini-novels in themselves and are extraordinary as social observation,   character comedy and amusing incident, as well as profoundly moving  meditations on the inexorable power of history and old age.  <br />Imagine the  narrator has a remote control as he is walking through the film of his  life.  He freezes the screen every three seconds and discusses in detail  the tableaux vivants before him, bending time and experience back and  forwards with ease as he does so.  <br />In between these are ruminations on  the art of writing.  This is a remarkably self-reflexive book, the narrator  suddenly starts talking about how he came to write it, what he intended to  achieve and what tools he was going to use.  The volume becomes less the  conclusion of a vast work than the record of its inception; you have to go  back then and read it again (believe me, 3700 pages won't seem enough).<br />   This section, a book-length manifesto, is fascinating and thrilling, but  also repetitive, difficult, frustrating, and sometimes obscure - it gets in  the way of the brilliant descriptive passages - the meeting with Baron de  Charlus is possibly the most extraordinary thing I have read, until the  remarkable coup of the closing party, where people the narrator hasn't seen  for years have grown horribly old and form a grotesque, funereal fancy  dress party - you want him to shut up talking about Time and impressionism  and get back to the fun.<br />Two other things: Evelyn Waugh was wrong -  Proust is hilarious, both with subtle ironies and more obvious satiric  abuse; with risible character traits and wider social events.<br />Secondly,  the narrator is not some unbearable omnisicient know-all as those of  Victorian novels - he is deeply unreliable - a prig, hypocrite, voyeur,  homophobic, intolerant, puritan, snob, deeply contradictory and cripplingly  ill; in earlier volumes he is apparently obsessional, jealous and brutal to  the point of insanity.  No wonder Nabokov adored him - he is, in his  ravishingly aesthetic unreliability, the first Humbert.	2000-02-03
US	50178145	RLPHY3SEX4QQY	0192838873	619137395	The Sketch-Book of Geoffrey Crayon, Gent (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	3	4	12	N	N	Explained: how a minor writer still survives.	Susan Manning's introduction is a model of its kind, situating Irving in his cultural and historical milieu.  Exposed like this, Irving cannot help looking like a minor writer, whose eminence largely derives from his being the first, rather than the best.<br />The interest of a story like 'Sleepy  Hollow', though, is less in its anguishing over American possibility and  European tradition, than its excellence as a ghost story.  The atmosphere  in the story, caught through nature description, suggestion, and the  careful build up of stories, rumours and hints, is compellingly tangible.  Ichabod Crane is an amiably unattractive hero, grotesque, brutal and  greedy, his appetite for terror is his most endearing quality.  The  terrifying climax is wonderfully achieved, and if the resulting bathos and  loss of ambiguity irritates, than Irving's surprisingly palatable (in small  doses) style compensates.  The movie (dare I say it) is much richer though.	2000-01-26
US	50178145	R1HDK19XLVW5IT	0914220136	738361408	Elephant (Limited Ed)	Books	2	2	48	N	N	Carver is no Chekhov.	What I can't understand is not the revered tedium of Raymond Carver, but how Robert Altman managed to use this sterile material to create one of the great, rich tragicomic masterpieces of the last twenty years.  The closing story here, about the death of Chekhov, is an attempt to extend his range,  but the flat biographical style, the phoney insertions of 'meaningful'  details and 'significant' events, the clumsy gropings for understated  emotion, are quite intolerable.	2000-01-26
US	50178145	R3VA4IEZ6PVH5B	0312241224	626514957	Birds of America: Stories	Books	2	10	24	N	N	If ever a book could give you a headache	The overriding impression of this ghastly collection is one of hysterical shrillness.  Each story features some paralysed woman who gets trapped in a labyrinthine circle that goes on FOR EVER until a final ejaculatory epiphany drenched in the smuggest prose imaginable.  Each spurt becomes  more contrived than the last until you can hear Moore's tap dripping.  The  story about going back to Ireland with her mother is so cliched and  inaccurate it makes one doubt the verity of the rest.  There are some good,  bloody, tasteless, comic moments that scar the polite complacency (a street  littered with sanitary towels; an accidental baby death), but mostly this  is unreadable.	2000-01-26
US	50178145	R3IRU69LKMVFAZ	0436269627	142930617	Death and Nightingales	Books	5	14	14	N	N	Flawed, maybe, but a rare, genuine, 90s masterpiece	This is one of the great, underrated novels of the century.  The opening three pages are among the best things I have ever read - a young woman hears an injured calf lowing in the early dawn and contrives to help her: the mixture of Gothic mystery, personal trauma, the dark violence of  nature, the evocation of space is relayed with such elliptical intensity  that you are left reeling.<br />  The rest of the novel can't hope to follow  this, and there's a little too much explanation in it when continued  suggestion would have been much more powerful, but these are minor  complaints.  It has been called a Victorian novel, and the plot and range  of characters have a similar richness, but there is none of the authorial  dogmatism, excessive verbiage or fear of loose ends that mars the works of,  say, Dickens.  Almost every character, no matter how reprehensible, is  portrayed with stunning fairness, my favourite being the landowner Willie,  whose repeated, drunken brutality can't hide his essential, helpless  decency.  <br />There are some remarkable set-pieces, especially the Percy  French concert, but what is eventually most memorable is the evocation of  nature, Ted Hughes like in its ominous power and violent beauty, it looks  on immemorially at the comparatively petty human dramas that would  eventually lead to an appalling Irish century.	2000-01-26
US	50178145	R15G2I380FS2IA	0802151345	966690661	Krapp's Last Tape and Other Dramatic Pieces: Includes: All That Fall; Embers; Acts Without Words, I and II; Mimes	Books	5	39	43	N	N	Beckett's most human drama.	Although it is probably his most conventional play, this is my favourite Beckett work.  It is as bleak as Godot and despairing as End Game.  It is also as funny as these tragicomic masterpieces.  What is different here is that Krapp is less of a pawn, or fragment of an idea than the other  characters, we are given access to his past, to his fundamental  ambivalences (the desire for solitude and companionship), his apprehension  of beauty.  It is remarkable to see on stage a whole series of seperate  selves contained in the one entity Krapp.  The play is depressingly,  inevitable circular, and the sense of repetition (note the extraordinary  variations on light and darkness) throughout the stories the younger Krapp  tells is not continuity, but an awareness of death, failure, old age.  The  play is also a comment on the nature of theatre going itself: in listening  to his old tapes, Krapp becomes, as well as an actor, an audience, and in  interpreting what he hears, a critic.  This Shakespearean self-reflexivity  only adds to the melancholy of the film's close.	2000-01-26
US	50178145	R39NU4S5IEWQSU	0192832247	594660117	Selected Tales (World's Classics)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Sickening brilliance.	I used to loathe Poe's style, whose involutions seemed to drain his work of all their professed horror, while admiring the way he smuggled hugely complex ideas into popular modes - no wonder Hitchcock adored him.  Now, as I grow older, I begin to value Poe more, recognise his obsessions and fears  in myself, while marvelling at a style that manages to convey hothouse  exoticism with remarkable, chilling precision.<br />Of the three stories I  read recently in this volume, Morella is the least successful, a rehash of  Leonora (a dead wife is reincarnated in her daughter), but there a  brilliance in Poe's dramatising of an idea that is admirable.<br />The Facts  in the Case of M. Valdemar is truly disgusting and horrifying.  A hynotist  experiments on a dying man to see if he can prolong life after death.  The  cool analytic style lead contemporaries to confuse it with a medical  testcase (it was published in a scientific journal), but what is most  memorable is the anguish of the dead man who cannot rest.<br />Best of all  though is the immortal Black Cat.  Violent and unconsionable, the  brutalities in this story are among the most grotesque in literature, both  to animals and to people.  Poe's style is at his most poetically sustained  as he describes the most vile barbarities with his character's  objectionable self-pity.  What is most sublime, though, is the note of  black comedy that is laced throughout, which would be foregrounded in Roger  Corman's hilarious version in Tales Of Terror.<br />Van Leer's introduction is  informative enough, but there is a note of begrudgery and a refusal to take  Poe altogether seriously, that is aggravating.	2000-01-26
US	50178145	RE753YZQS3MJP	0670887315	929204920	Disgrace	Books	2	16	24	N	N	Bewilderingly overrated.	I'm sorry.  I don't understand this man's standing.  He has won more Bookers than anyone else, which means he's better than Rushdie, MacEwan, Byatt, right?  I have to be missing something - the prose is determinedly mediocre, the treatment of violence and its effects is crass, the analysis  of modern South Africa unenlightening.  The main character is less  offensive than a bore.  It's not all bad - the university showtrial is  genuinely frightening, and the passages about the dogs, with their mixture  of horror, tenderness and emotional blankness are almost moving.  More of  this and it could have been a tolerable novel, but, once again vast social  and gender issues are reduced to the self-pity of a middle-class white  male.	2000-01-26
