US	50181141	R6UKXIUL2B7R9	0743437810	177045780	The Vanished Man: A Lincoln Rhyme Novel (Lincoln Rhyme Novels)	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Over the top plot.	THIS IS A RIDICULOUS, SILLY MURDER PLOT, BUT STILL A FUN, AND INTERESTING BOOK TO READ. <br /> <br />These are the same characters from the book/movie The Bone Collector.  The quadrapalegic detective was played by Denzel Washington, and his policewoman sidekick/lover was played by Angelina Jolie.  In reading the book, I can't remember any reference being made to the race of the detective.  I assumed he was white.  I don't know if that is some horrible cultural bias on my part or if there were some indications of the color of his skin.  I actually invisioned the detective to look like the picture of Deaver on the back of the book.   <br /> <br />It seems like every mystery/detective book now has to have some sort of hook, where the hero can't be any an ordinary person.  The hero has to have some sort of quirks to make the story more interesting.  Like the plot of the mystery is not interesting enough.  But then again, there is a history of this.  Sherlock Holmes certainly had some interesting personality quirks.  The first detective novel ever written (by Edgar Allen Poe) had a basically normal detective but featured a very interesting sidekick.   <br /> <br />So, how is the mystery/detective story? The plot is over the top and virtually impossible. <br /> <br />In this book, a magician has this extremely complex, but intricate plot to kill someone.  In order for it to work, everything must go exactly right, and people have to react in a perfectly preset manner.  But, instead of going through all these wierd tricks and killing a whole bunch of innocent people, why didn't he just simply kill the person and be done with it?  With all his skills and lack of notariety, he certainly could gotten away with it. <br /> <br />The story has lots of twists and turns and misdirection.  But, in order to make this work the story is not always consistent.  For instance, in one part of the story, the magician is unexepectedly caught.  The magician is surprised and does not understand how the detectives found him.  We learn this through his thoughts.  But, later on, it turns out that he did actually want to be caught to make his plan work. <br /> <br />After the first 40 pages, the story starts to move pretty well.  The twists and turns are fun and interesting.  There are certainly many surprises in the book.  I will have to admit that I did not see most of it coming.  But, after a while the twists and turns got to be ridiculous and laughable.   <br /> <br />How the detective starts figuring out the moves of the bad guy gets pretty unbelievable also.  It reminds of some of the dialog in National Treasure.  And then when the detective and bad guy sit down and start discussing the plot and the turns, it is just ludicrous.   It reminds me of a TV special John Cleese once did. <br /> <br />But, in spite of all that, I did enjoy reading the book.  Would I read another?  Maybe.	2005-09-26
US	50181141	R2UYDTAZTAQCKG	031298250X	88732746	America: A Jake Grafton Novel (Jake Grafton Novels)	Books	3	0	1	N	N	Starts out strong but loses its way.	I really agree with everything the previous review wrote (Jon Davidson, August 8). It is rare that someone already wrote most of what I thought. The only difference is that I think the book is more in the range of 3 stars than 4. <br />When I started reading this book, I had to check the copywrite date. I know I had seen and/or read the opening scene somewhere before, and more than once. A submarine is hi-jacked. That has been done a number of times before. Most recently in a movie about a German sub (U-571?) and earlier in a Steven Segal movie. And the action is always the same, shooting people coming up/down the ladder, trapping people in the hallway and capturing the crew in the bunks and mess. <br /> <br />But, the book starts out strong as our hero (Jake Grafton from earlier Coonts books) plays detective and follows clues. The detective story is fairly strong. And there is a subplot with a burglar who turns into a spy that is very engaging.  <br /> <br />However, the detective story finally loses out when the sub starts launching missiles and causing catastrophic events. Ever since Tom Clancy nuked the Superbowl and blew up the Whitehouse, everyone has to go one better. Threat of disaster is no longer good enough. You have to have destroy something to show menace.  <br /> <br />The end really peters out, with the heroes and their wives on the Love Boat while America is being attacked. It is all handled like a light adventure, even after the wives are captured and about to be killed. <br /> <br />What is even worse, is how Coonts tries to make the main Russian badguy and his partner as sympathetic, likeable characters. They have murdered tons of seamen and civilians, but you are supposed to like them because they took mercy on some other people. I am betting that they turn up in future books and eventually become good guys. <br /> <br />In spite of the bad points, it is still interesting to read, especially in the beginning. It is certainly better than any of the latest Clancy books. <br /> <br />	2005-06-14
US	50181141	R3LUYZMHI3OLSJ	0060582553	606903575	Burglars Can't Be Choosers (Bernie Rhodenbarr)	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Very light reading; but fun	Although this book is over 300 pages, it is very light reading that can be finished in a day.  The sentences are short and not very complex.  The paragraphs are short.  And most of the book is simple dialog. <br /> <br />So is it a good story and an interstesting read?  Yes, it is. <br /> <br />This is your basic detective story with all the cliches....shady cops, crooked district attorneys, society women cheating on their husbands, racketeers, and the one honest schmo.    <br /> <br />The twist is that the \\"detective\\" in this story is actually a burglar who ends up getting framed for murder and has to find the real culprit.   <br /> <br />I have to admit, that although I was able to predict most of the twists and turns of the book, I was surprised with the ending and who the real murderer was.  And although the girl in the book was everything that I predicted, how the hero handled her in the end was unexpected.   <br /> <br />The ending really improved my rating of this book.  Halfway through the book, I really did not care if I finished it.  But, the ending was not good enough to make me that eager to go out and read another in the series...but I might.	2005-02-19
US	50181141	R35GP4ZJKAO4RJ	0446608602	375817200	Personal Injuries	Books	3	0	1	N	N	Well written, intelligent story	This is not a page-turner or a Grissam potboiler.  It is a well written, realistic story with no lapses in logic.  It has a relatively good story that moves most of the way through the book. It does have some nice twists in the end. The only reason I don't give it four stars is the following:<br />It only has three fully realized characters.  The rest are characteratures.<br />I don't like books about fictionalized big cities.  The name of the sports teams is ridiculous.  The basketball team is called the Hands.<br />I don't like stories about an old boys network, with everyone growing up together and knowing each other.  This is supposed to be a big city.  Where are the people who moved in from out of town?  <br />It does have a few slow spots.  <br />The ending is a cop out. Not to spoil anything...but it is common for authors to kill off an interesting character when they can't think of what to do with them next.<br />This is not a great book, but it doesn't insult your intelligence.  It is certainly better than The Firm or any of Tom Clancy's recent books.	2004-06-21
US	50181141	R5NG9HS4LP6N4	0312982518	840537150	The Sigma Protocol	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Typical, entertaining Ludlum book.	The good news: this is an honest to goodness, real live Ludlum book. Many of Ludlum's later books are \\"co-authored\\" and are not really done by Ludlum. They use Ludlum's<BR>                                 name and style to sell books. But, they are far inferior to the real thing. A recent example is the \\"Hades Factor\\", which is a poor imitation of a real Ludlum book. Now that<BR>                                 Ludlum has died, we will probably be seeing many more of these \\"co-authored\\" books.<br />                                 The bad news: Ludlum wasn't a genius. So even though this is a good spy/adventure/suspense novel, it does have some minor problems, typical of Ludlum: Any characters<BR>                                 with a relationship to the main hero get killed off. It gets very predictable of who is going to die and when. The end of the book is a cliche, and you could tell exactly where it<BR>                                 was headed. ... The book goes on a little too long, and the middle gets to be tedious.<br />                                 In spite of my complaints, this is still a very enjoyable book. Ludlum was always one of the best at writing action packed scenes and suspenseful story lines. This is not his<BR>                                 best, like the Bourne Identity, but it is one of his better stories, certainly better than the two Bourne sequels.	2003-08-26
US	50181141	R3RLD6CQ61J6TI	0449227421	922959758	The Third Twin	Books	2	1	1	N	N	Mildly entertaining despite its flaw	As a suspense novel, this book is fairly entertaining.  As a primer on genetics or anything scientific, it is fairly useless and inaccurate.  I would give the book 3 stars for its entertainment value, but knock it down to 2 stars, for its many flaws and lapses in logic.<br />The many flaws in this book are pointed out by other reveiwers.  But some of my \\"favorite\\" are:<BR>-just what kind of scientist is the hero?  Is she a geneticist, psychologist or a computer programmer?<BR>-just how many times can the hero be fooled by the bad twin?<BR>-would a police detective really hold off on arresting an arsonist and rapist, just because someone she didn't like asked her to?<BR>-Follett's fixation on women's underwear is just creepy (and I am a guy)<BR>-the whole plan to reveal the badguys at the end of the book is very contrived<BR>-all the badguys are conversatives (opposite of Tom Clancy, whose badguys are all liberals)<br />This book has an interesting premise.  But there is no suspense to it, since it is given away in the title.  The idea of genetically bred, superhuman clones with a violent streak could have been explored a lot more than the superficial treatment given in this book.  We could have seen more action in how they relate to society and each other.<br />But despite all the flaws, I did not hate this book.  It had a pleasant storyline and flow.  The story moved along fairly well.  It was pretty good light summer reading.	2003-08-20
US	50181141	R510RBF0V9I79	0451163532	248649827	On Wings of Eagles: The Inspiring True Story of One Man's Patriotic Spirit--and His Heroic Mission to Save His Countrymen	Books	3	9	17	N	N	Sometimes truth is not as exciting as fiction	This is an absolutely true story of how some people working for Ross Perot at EDS were imprisoned in Iran and how the escaped.  But, you know, sometimes true stories are not as interesting or suspenseful as fiction.<br />The introduction of the characters and the build up of the story are very well done.  It is just that the escape was anticlimatic and not very exciting.<br />Other reveiwers make it sound like Ross Perot was a super hero, doing the impossible to rescue his workers.  On Perot's side, he was very concerned for his people and took actions to try to help them.  But, he wasn't involved in the actual rescue.  He hired mercanaries to do the actual work.<br />It turns out that there was really no rescue.  The captives escaped the prison on their own.  The only thing the mercenaries supplied was transporation to the border.  It made it easier for the people to get out of Iran, but they probably could have done it on their own.<br />This book would have been more interesting if it concentrated even more on the captives and gave less attention to Perot and the mercenaries.  In that way, there would have been a lot more suspense and the ending would have had a better pay off.<br />This is not a bad book.  The development of the characters is very good.  And there is some tension when the captives are sent to prison.  It's just there is no big action filled pay off in the end.	2003-07-31
US	50181141	R2YOEVTBUMSXX2	0312973055	369520939	Robert Ludlum's The Hades Factor	Books	2	3	5	N	N	Not a real Ludlum book	According to the cover, this book is coauthored by Robert Ludlam and Gayle Lynds. From reading this book, I would guess that Lynds did most of the writing and Ludlum's name was used to sell more copies.<br />Robert Ludlum wasn't a genius and some of his books do have some problems. But, he was great at writing suspenseful, action packed stories. This book has none of the suspense or tension usually found in Ludlum's books. The action scenes aren't very exciting. It is also filled with cliched characters, such as the computer nerd and the retired covert operator.<br />One of the big problems with the Hades Factor is that you know who the bad guys are and what they are up to from the beginning. There is no mystery. The other big problem is that the ending is one big cliche.<br />A good contrast is the Sigma Protocol, Ludlum's last book, which was released at about the same time as the Hades Factor. The Sigma Protocol is a far superior book. It has all the elements that make a Ludlum book so enjoyable.<br />The warning is don't get these &quot;co-authored&quot; imitations of Ludlum. Seek out the real thing.	2003-07-15
US	50181141	R18WR6DX26PB5J	0312982518	840537150	The Sigma Protocol	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Typical, entertaining Ludlum story	The good news:  this is an honest to goodness, real live Ludlum book.  Many of Ludlum's later books are \\"co-authored\\" and are not really done by Ludlum.  They use Ludlum's name and style to sell books.  But, they are far inferior to the real thing.  A recent example is the \\"Hades Factor\\", which is a poor imitation of a real Ludlum book.  Now that Ludlum has died, we will probably be seeing many more of these \\"co-authored\\" books.<br />The bad news:  Ludlum wasn't a genius.  So even though this is a good spy/adventure/suspense novel, it does have some minor problems, typical of Ludlum:  Any characters with a relationship to the main hero get killed off.  It gets very predictable of who is going to die and when.  The end of the book is a cliche, and you could tell exactly where it was headed.  It turns out to be a rip off of Star Wars, but you can see it coming.  The book goes on a little too long, and the middle gets to be tedious.<br />In spite of my complaints, this is still a very enjoyable book.  Ludlum was always one of the best at writing action packed scenes and suspenseful story lines.  This is not his best, like the Bourne Identity, but it is one of his better stories, certainly better than the two Bourne sequels.	2003-07-15
US	50181141	RAQ08MTMO2NA5	031298250X	88732746	America: A Jake Grafton Novel (Jake Grafton Novels)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Starts out strong but slowly loses its way	I really agree with everything the previous review wrote (Jon Davidson, August 8).  It is rare that someone already wrote most of what I thought.  The only difference is that I think the book is more in the range of 3 stars than 4.<br />When I started reading this book, I had to check the copywrite date.  I know I had seen and/or read the opening scene somewhere before, and more than once.  A submarine is hi-jacked.  That has been done a number of times before.  Most recently in a movie about a German sub (U-571?) and earlier in a Steven Segal movie.  And the action is always the same, shooting people coming up/down the ladder, trapping people in the hallway and capturing the crew in the bunks and mess.<br />But, the book starts out strong as our hero (Jake Grafton from earlier Coonts books) plays detective and follows clues.  The detective story is fairly strong.  And there is a subplot with a burglar who turns into a spy that is very engaging.  <br />However, the detective story finally loses out when the sub starts launching missiles and causing catastrophic events.  Ever since Tom Clancy nuked the Superbowl and blew up the Whitehouse, everyone has to go one better. Threat of disaster is no longer good enough.  You have to have destroy something to show menace. <br />The end really peters out, with the heroes and their wives on the Love Boat while America is being attacked.  It is all handled like a light adventure, even after the wives are captured and about to be killed.<br />What is even worse, is how Coonts tries to make the main Russian badguy and his partner as sympathetic, likeable characters.  They have murdered tons of seamen and civilians, but you are supposed to like them because they took mercy on some other people.  I am betting that they turn up in future books and eventually become good guys.<br />In spite of the bad points, it is still interesting to read, especially in the beginning.  It is certainly better than any of the latest Clancy books.	2002-08-23
US	50181141	R3NYONXMCHCKMW	0312973055	369520939	Robert Ludlum's The Hades Factor	Books	2	0	3	N	N	Not a Ludlum book; full of cliches and not exciting	According to the cover, this book is coauthored by Robert Ludlam and Gayle Lynds.  From reading this book, I would guess that Lynds did most of the writing and Ludlum's name was used to sell more copies.<br />Robert Ludlum wasn't a genius and some of his books do have some problems.  But, he was great at writing suspenseful, action packed stories.  This book has none of the suspense or tension usually found in Ludlum's books.  The action scenes aren't very exciting.  It is also filled with cliched characters, such as the computer nerd and the retired covert operator.<br />One of the big problems with the Hades Factor is that you know who the bad guys are and what they are up to from the beginning.  There is no mystery.  The other big problem is that the ending is one big cliche.<br />A good contrast is the Sigma Protocol, Ludlum's last book, which was released at about the same time as the Hades Factor.  The Sigma Protocol is a far superior book.  It has all the elements that make a Ludlum book so enjoyable.<br />The warning is don't get these &quot;co-authored&quot; imitations of Ludlum.  Seek out the real thing.	2002-08-14
US	50181141	R1YHWKJZU3FCFO	0425180964	225323965	The Bear and the Dragon (A Jack Ryan Novel)	Books	2	1	2	N	N	Slightly better than Executive Orders	...<br />This book has all the same problems that Executive Orders had, but to a lesser degree.  There are not as many irrelevant subplots that have no conclusion.  His right wing posturing is toned down.  ...<br />This book is still long winded and repititious.  It is not a \\"page turner\\".  I read this book over the course of several months because I didn't find it compelling.  But, the \\"good\\" thing is that Clancy repeats everything so much, that you can put the book down for months and then pick it up again and be  immediately reminded of what happened earlier in the book.  He even repeats exact phrases and quotes many, many times.<br />The plot of this book is the same as the last three.  International tensions builds, US is caught with its pants down due to the shrinking of the military, war breaks out, but in the end the US kicks ... with its superior technology.<br />Clancy has done this story so many times, that he doesn't even bother to finish the war.  He has great details of how the Chinese march in and make great advances on the Russians.  Then he has some interesting dog fights.  But, in the end, he gives no details on how the Russians fight back and win the war.  It is just: the Chinese walk into a trap and the Russians win.<br />Clancy does have his own views about abortion and beats the reader over the head with them.  That is the only incidence of his right wing preaching in this book, and I don't have any issues with it.  It is not as bad as Executive Orders, where he made anyone with liberal ideas into a slimy, vile character.<br />What is amazing to me is how people will point out all the problems with this book and still give it five stars.	2002-08-12
US	50181141	R3AK4XLCX0G80M	0515097500	505724292	Men in Blue (Badge Of Honor)	Books	2	3	6	N	N	Character introduction and no story	This book is just an introduction of characters.  There is a small background story that lets the characters be introduced.   It is really ridiculous.  As the story moves along, everytime a new character pops up, there is a multipage description of the character, starting with what the character's ancesters did going back three or four generations.  Most of these characters have very little to do with the actual story.  With 30 characters, and just over 200 pages, there is very little room for a story.<br />Griffin is very good at character development and the short story is kind of interesting.  You do get a feeling for the type of people who joined the police, the hierarchy of the police department and a little idea of how the police force is run.  Unfortunately, the most interesting part of the story, where the murderers are tracked down, is cut short.  Alot of the ideas and philosophies are archaic.  It is hard to tell when the story takes place, but one reference makes me think it is 1973.  The copywrite on the book is 1984.<br />This is the first book in the Badge of Honor series.  Maybe Griffin was trying to get the player introductions out of the way in the first book to make room for stories in later books.  But, after reading this book, I have no desire to read the next.  Even if I do, there is no way I would remember who all of those characters were and what their background would be.	2000-09-27
US	50181141	R3BKF5FLZN93QW	0425133516	853466247	The Hunt for Red October	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Clancy's best developed character-the submarine	Beginner's luck.  This is Clancy's first book and probably his best.   <br />This book features Clancy's best developed and most realistic character,  the submarine.  <br />The story is well constructed and moves right along.  As  I started reading this book, I was afraid that the story would drag on with  it taking forever for the Americans to figure out the Soviets secret.  But  that issue is resolved at the right time and the story moves right on to  the next stage.  <br />In this book, Clancy concentrates on the action and the  technology without getting bogged down too much with character development.   The characters are developed just enough for the requirements of the  story.  It is when Clancy tries to expand these characters in later books  that he falls on his face.  Even Jack Ryan seems like an interesting, well  rounded and realistic character.  He is smart, but not too smart and he has  real flaws.  In later books, he is a one dimensional superhero.  <br />The  only other Clancy book that is nearly this good is Clear and Present  Danger.  That one also sticks to the action with the characters just  rounded off enough to support the story.	2000-08-25
US	50181141	R3EPO1KVZST1VT	0425158632	506174805	Executive Orders (A Jack Ryan Novel)	Books	1	11	17	N	N	Good ending-Ryan turns into a sleazeball politician	The best part of this book is probably unintentional on Clancy's part.   Jack Ryan succumbs to the seduction of power and turns into a sleazy  politician.<br />Throughout the seven Jack Ryan books, Jack has developed into  a one dimensional superhero.  By this book, his character is as thin and  flat as a piece of cardboard.  Throughout this book, he is the perfect,  honest polictical outsider, single handedly cleaning up the American  political system.  The whole time he insists he doesn't want the job.  But,  at the end of the book, once Ryan feels the power of kicking the butts of  the liberal opposition and of the Iraqis, he changes his mind and says he  will stay in office.  Ryan turns into the lying, two-faced politician he  said he hated.<br />Besides the ending, this is mostly a miserable book. The  first 400 pages are boring and repetitive.  There some really good parts in  the middle where all these intricate subplots get going.  But most of these  subplots go nowhere or are left dangling.  There's an exciting little war  at the end, but it not enough to make up for the 1100 other pages that go  nowhere.<br />There are some minor problems with most of Clancy's other books,  but for the most part they are very good, exciting and entertaining.  This  book is a complete shock.  It will be interesting to see if he can recover  with the next book in the series, which was just released.	2000-08-25
US	50181141	R2K23OC09M55JF	0440204208	183680761	Blood Shot (V. I. Warshawski)	Books	2	2	12	N	N	Basic cliche ridden detective novel	This is your basic private detective story.  All the cliches are here.  Getting involved with the old neighborhood, the old aquaintance being  murdered, the rich guy that tries to buy off the PI, the PI is always  broke, organized crime and crooked politicians, the PI getting beat up, the  gun battle in the end and a few threads left hanging.  Alot of the  &quot;mysteries&quot; are fairly obvious and you know who will be killed  but there are some twists in the end.<br />The story does move along and  rarely drags.  But it is never exciting enough where you can't put the book  down. And it never pulls you into the PI's world. The writing style is a  poor imitation of other detective novels.  <br />The novelty of the book is  that the PI is a woman.  But the way the book is written, it doesn't really  add anything to the story.  The PI could have been anyone.  I didn't hate  the book but I would never buy another by the author.	2000-08-02
US	50181141	R3466MF0C2FGX6	0884046818	894828266	Battlefield Earth: A Saga of the Year 3000	Books	3	2	9	N	N	Fairly entertaining sci fi	This is basically a fun, action packed science fiction book.  Hubbard liked to brag that it was the longest sci fi book ever written.  I don't know if it is true, or if that would be something to boast about.  Like most sci fi or fantasy stories of the time, it is really a trilogy.  There  is the freedom of the humans, the victory over the aliens and the  aftermath.  Hubbard just put it all under one cover.   There are a few  sections where the story drags.  The characters are basically one  dimensional.  There are some too cutesy moments, especially in the last  third of the book.  And Hubbard does sneak in his Scientology views every  once in a while.  But over all, it is entertaining and there are a number  of clever devices and storylines. Some people might not appreciate the  story because it more earthbound than most.  But I think that it adds an  immediacy that makes the story more exciting...the book has tension, excitement and a very good war with the aliens.	2000-05-29
US	50181141	RQQ5J7641SYW8	0451167538	734693861	Different Seasons (Signet)	Books	4	1	6	N	N	2 great stories, 1 forgettable story and 1 bad story	I'm not a big reader of horror stories, so my reaction to this book will be different than rabid King fans.  I was told what a great writer King could be and how he could develop characters and tell a story.  For the  most part, those reports were true.  This book is four &quot;short&quot;  stories:<br />&quot;The Body&quot; is a great coming of age story, about 4  boys on their last fling before adolesence.  It was made into the movie  &quot;Stand By Me&quot;.<br />&quot;The Apt Pupil&quot; is an excellent, but  disturbing exploration of two evil minds.  One is the student, whose mind  is developing with the help of the master.  The other is the master, who  has repressed the evil for years but has it brought out again by the  student.  I haven't seen the movie, but I bet Hollywood softened the  ending.<br />I honestly can't remember much about the &quot;Rita  Hayworth&quot;.  It was the trials and tribulations of an innocent man  going to prison, but it didn't have enough impact to leave a lasting  impression.<br />The last story is just a quick horror story with cardboard  characters.  Members of a mens club try to impress each other with stories.   A doctor tells in vivid, gory detail of a single woman who wants to have a  baby so bad, she delivers after head is cut off in an accident.  The whole  thing has a silly ending where the club folds up and flies away.   <br />&quot;The Apt Pupil&quot; and &quot;The Body&quot; would make me want to  read more King novels.  It wouldn't matter that are horror stories, as long  as they have the rich, entertaining storylines and well developed  characters.  If King's horror stories are more along the lines of the one  horror story in this book, than I wouldn't be interested in another King  novel.	2000-05-17
US	50181141	R30JUBTAG2SH2U	0451169530	825352881	The Stand: Expanded Edition: For the First Time Complete and Uncut (Signet)	Books	3	6	11	N	N	Great premise, good characters but unsatisfactory ending	Fantasy/horror writers have it easy.  They can write themselves into a corner, but poof, a door can magically appear to let them out.  King does that twice in this book.<br />The first third of the book is a fairly  fascinating and well written account of how most humanity dies due to a  mutant flue bug created by the military.  You really wonder how the  remaining people are going to survive and rebuild civilization.  But, poof,  King takes the easy way out.  He divides the survivors into good and evil  and creates a leader for each group.  The survivors then congregate in  Denver (good) or Las Vegas (evil).<br />The second third of the book is a  detailed account of the two groups rebuilding their societies.  The last  third is the climatic confrontation between good and evil.  Things go  really bad for the good, and it looks like good is finished.  You wonder  how good could possibly triumph, and then, poof, the hand of God swoops  down out of the sky and wipes out the bad.  I didn't read 1100 pages just  to have everything wrapped up in one page by the hand of God.  <br />This is  one of King's earlier books.  It was originally released in a stripped down  version.  He says that the publisher thought is was too long and spent too  much time on the characters.  I don't think that's true.  In the long  version, the characters get fully developed, but the story keeps moving and  never drags.  I think the publisher correctly recognized that alot of  readers would be upset reading through 1100 pages, only to have it all  abruptly ended by the hand of God.  That kind of ending is OK for a short  story, but not an epic.<br />Besides the unsatisfying ending, this is a good  story with well rounded characters.  The only character I don't like is the  up and coming rock star and his horrible no. 1 hit.  This guy fulfills  King's self indulgent fantasy of becoming a rock idol.	2000-05-17
US	50181141	R2BI2KHGBMURAG	0425158632	506174805	Executive Orders (A Jack Ryan Novel)	Books	1	8	13	N	N	Love it or hate it	This is a controversial book.  You either love it or hate it.  Those who give negative reviews to this book are big Clancy fans and love most of his other books.  <br />As you begin reading this book, you begin to notice the  flaws in Clancy's writing (cardboard characters, repititions, the need to  bring back characters in contrived and unnecesssary subplots, right wing  pontificating, wooden dialog, etc).  You then began to reflect on his older  books and realize that those flaws have always been present.  But, in the  older books, those flaws weren't as prevelant and the stories were so  exciting and the endings were so good, that you would tend not to notice  the flaws.  In this book, every flaw is greatly magnified, large portions  of the book (especially the beginning) aren't very exciting and the ending  is a bust.<br />A number of people have complained that there are too many  subplots.  But, Clancy does a very good job of jumping between them.  The  real problem is that most of them have unsatisfactory conclusions or no  conclusion at all.<br />There is one extremely good part of this book, but it  was probably unintentional on Clancy's part.  That part is the last line of  the book.  Clancy finally turns Jack Ryan into a three dimensional  character by evolving him into a sleazy politician.  All throughout the  book, Ryan insists he doesn't want to be president.  But after kicking the  butt of his political and international enemies, and getting the taste of  real power, he changes his mind and says we will run for reelection.	2000-05-16
US	50181141	R2K6VHCN33FRUN	0553260111	561287091	The Bourne Identity (Bourne Trilogy No.1)	Books	4	28	33	N	N	Exciting story	Ludlum is one of the best at creating the super spy and writing action sequences.  Sometimes he can create a spy story to back them up.  This one is pretty good throughout.  He isn't that good with the emotional  development of his characters or writing love stories (but he isn't nearly  as bad as Tom Clancey in these areas).  The hero agonizing over what his  identity might be gets to be tedious and the love story is awkward as in  all of his books.  But, mostly the book moved at a good enough pace to make  me want to read more.<br />This is the first book in a three part series.  I  didn't know that when I read the book, and was frustrated and disappointed  as I neared the end of the book and realized the story wouldn't be  concluded.  The second book in the series (Bourne Supremacy) is pretty bad  and doesn't really build on the first book.  It isn't necessary to read it  before jumping on to the third book (Bourne Ultimatum) and the conclusion  of the story.  The third book isn't as good as the first, but is worth  reading for the conclusion.	2000-04-06
US	50181141	R1SR973T1CVPTZ	042510429X	605257856	The Third Deadly Sin (The Deadly Sins Novels)	Books	1	3	19	N	N	Bad book about sandwiches	This is the third in the Sin series.  It is the only one I read.  It was  so bad I didn't want to read the others.  The first two might be good.  The  first one was made into a fairly good movie.<br />The series is about  Detective Delaney who hunts down serial killers.  In this book, you meet  the killer right off.  She is a semi-sympathetic character who is killing  bad men, such as cheating husbands.  But, the author makes sure she should  be caught and punished by having her kill one victim who turns out to be  good and has second thoughts about cheating on his wife.<br />Most of the book  deals with how the killer does in her victims or how the detective makes a  sandwich.  Instead getting details on how the crime is solved, we get  details about sloppy, gross sandwiches that are eaten over a sink.  In the  end the crime really isn't solved and the killer is discovered mostly by  accident.	2000-04-06
US	50181141	R1D679WI1XYDL0	0553258990	107272816	The Matarese Circle: A Novel	Books	3	3	18	N	N	Exciting book but stupid plot and cliche ridden ending	Most of this book is Ludlum at his best.  It is action packed with two capable heroes.  There is very little of the character development, which Ludlum does poorly, to get in the way of the action.  The plot is a your basic B-grade spy movie plot of the international cadre trying to  manipulate the world.  Fortunately that doesn't detract too much from the  story telling.  The ending is a real letdown and is an action movie cliche.   The KGB partner is killed while saving the American hero, but with his  dying breath urges the hero to leave him and go get the bad guys.  The  American hero then puts an end to the story by machine gunning down all the  bad guys. It is an easy, no-brainer conclusion.	2000-04-06
US	50181141	RRK23NL64CDFW	0553287737	202706560	The Bourne Ultimatum (Bourne Trilogy, Book 3)	Books	3	3	8	N	N	Worth reading for the Bourne conclusion	This is the third and final book in the Bourne series.  The first book (Identity) is fairly good.  The second book (Supremacy) isn't very good and doesn't add anything to the series.  This third book could be fully enjoyed  without reading the second book.  <br />This third book isn't as good as the  first one.  But, it is worth reading if you want to follow through on the  conclusion from the first book.  The biggest problem with this series is  that the emotional musings of the hero about his identity and the love and  worry about his wife get pretty tedious in the first book, are beat to  death in the second book and are just painful to read by the third book.  Maybe this third book could be better enjoyed by skipping the first two  books (althought there are major parts of the first book that are better  than anything in the third book).	2000-04-06
US	50181141	R22EKGEJT8YIAG	0553263226	366818317	The Bourne Supremacy (Bourne Trilogy, Book 2)	Books	1	6	16	N	N	Stupid contrived story	This is the second book in the Bourne series.  The first was pretty exciting.  This second one starts out pretty good, with several different factions fighting for unknown reasons.  Bourne (and his woman) are caught  in the middle and he and the reader don't know who is on whose side.  But  the whole thing ends up in a contrived mess.  Although Bourne doesn't know  the good guys from the bad guys, he miracuously only kills the bad guys  while just knocking out the good guys.  It is also pretty silly that  Bourne, a white guy, can move so freely around the Asian underworld.  The  agony his life goes through gets pretty tiring after awhile.<br />Since the  story takes place in Asia, there is the obligatory Asian friend who gets  killed.  An Asian woman or child in an action story has a lower life  expectancy than a black guess star in an old Star Trek episode.  This was  always been a cheesy, easy way out.  Any good hero couldn't just leave his  Asian friend in Asia, but trying to get the Asian friend out of Asia would  complicate the story too much.  So, just kill her off when she is no longer  needed.<br />While it would be very helpful to read the first book (Bourne  Identity) to understand this second book, this second book adds nothing to  the series and really isn't necessary to understand the third book.  The  first and third books deal with finding the assassin, Carlos.  This second  book has very little to do with that.	2000-04-06
US	50181141	RGD3HM7NZ687R	0553271091	107272816	The Road to Gandolfo	Books	2	2	6	N	N	Not very funny or very good	This is Ludlums attempt at writing a comedy.  It isn't very funny or entertaining.  These two characters go through a series of adventures that aren't interesting.  The big running joke is that one character can never get anything to eat.  How funny is that?  There is also an embarrassing,  juvenile storyline about one of the characters prowess with women and his  beautiful wives.  It is like a low class Matt Helm story (which is already  at rock bottom).  Ludlum is good at creating a superspy and writing action  sequences.  That could easily be twisted in a funny, entertaining way.  But  Ludlum does not leverage his strenghts here.	2000-04-06
US	50181141	R3P0KI3AO5NN5J	0553580191	294009896	Seize the Night	Books	3	0	4	N	N	Heineken doesn't come in twist offs	This is the second book in the series about Chris Snow.  I didn't read the first book, I haven't read anything by Koontz before and I am not a big fan of horror/fantasy books.  I'm trying to decide if this book interested me  enough to want to read anything else in the series.<br />This book gets off to  a bad, unnerving start.  A young boy is kidnapped on the first page, and it  seems be treated in a light hearted manner.  Fortunately, it is treated  more seriously later.<br />The three main characters are interesting and  fairly well developed.  The supporting characters are more stereotypical,  but each one has some sort of quirk added in attempt to make them more  rounded.  Sometimes it is successful (as in the ex-football player, who is  a cliche right down to the name) and sometimes it isn't (as in the biker).   <br />The biggest problem with the book is that it often goes off in tangents,  sometimes in action and sometimes in the emotional musings of the main  character/narrator.  Although most of these tangents turn out to be  important to the story, they are crammed into the wrong places and  interrupt the flow of the book.  Why would people looking for a kidnapped  child run off and play in the &quot;egg&quot; room or search a house.  The  reasons given are contrived and illogical.  The emotional musings begin to  get repititious and boring.  How many times do we need to hear about the  work Chris's mother did, or how smart the dog is?  Developing the character  of the cat was much effective and interesting because it was done through  action instead of through a narrative.<br />I don't think I missed out on  anything by not reading the first book.  It seems like so much time is  spent in the second book, explaining what happened in the first, that it  wouldn't be worth reading the first.  I don't know if I want to go onto the  third book. The second book had a fairly good ending, but I don't know if  the story was strong enough to want me learn more aboutthese characters.   The authors and characters lost credibility when they talked about twisting  the top off of Heineken bottles.	2000-04-04
US	50181141	R1HGICCIT34SUW	0425133540	243303903	The Sum of All Fears (Jack Ryan Novels)	Books	3	2	5	N	N	Ludicrous story, slow in the beginning, but good ending	Arab terrorists stumble onto a nuclear warhead and try to useit to start World War III.  The setup is long and can be boring andrepetitious at times, especially the bomb making exercise.  But the setup is not nearly as tedious as that in Executive Orders.  The whole plot is pretty ridiculous, but the climax is very exciting and there is a statisfying ending.	2000-03-30
US	50181141	R2B2M3H830LJE3	044021145X	438349301	The Firm	Books	1	5	18	N	N	Predictable all the way through	You read the book jacket and you know the whole story. Except for a small bit at the end of the book, there is nothing clever or original. There are no surprises or turns. Everything is very predictable.  The book just goes  through motions.	2000-03-30
US	50181141	R10I09CC696TWP	0425116840	469892992	The Cardinal of the Kremlin (Jack Ryan)	Books	3	1	2	N	N	A little slow but good international intrigue	This book moves a little slowly, but the international intrigue and the political manuevering are fascinating.  Clancy does have a major problem that does show up in this book.  He tries to slip in characters from  previous books into each book and ends up with contrived and pointless  subplots.  The whole subplot with the Russian captain from the Hunt for Red  October is needless and boring.	2000-03-29
US	50181141	R1ILTW2TLCMMJ7	0425109720	32944133	Patriot Games (A Jack Ryan Novel)	Books	2	2	8	N	N	A fairy prince story with some good action	This is a prequel to Hunt For Red October, where Clancy first expands on the Ryan character.  It reminds me of a sappy girl's bedtime book that my daughter used to read about Polly Pocket.  Polly is excited about the  ballet recital, but the best part goes to her friend.  Polly is happy for  her friend and helps her practice.  The friend gets sick and Polly has to  do her friend's part in order to save the show.  She is a little unsteady  at first but then does a wonderful job and everyone is happy.<br />Patriot  Games is a real fairy prince story.  Ryan saves the Prince from IRA  terrorists.  He becomes good friends with the royal family and gets to stay  at the castle.  Everyone loves him, including the castle guards.  We meet  Ryan's perfect wife and Ryan's perfect daughter.  He is a little unsteady  at first but does a wonderful job and everyone is happy.<br />There are some  exciting parts to this book as the IRA terrorist try to get back at Ryan  and the Prince, and the ending is pretty good.  It is just hard to believe  that the Secret Service is so inept and could be outgunned by some IRA  terrorists.	2000-03-29
US	50181141	R2N7EP8OAH4THJ	0425147584	145288617	Debt of Honor (A Jack Ryan Novel)	Books	4	3	7	N	N	Fairly exciting book with a few flaws	Most of this book is the kind of war games thriller that Clancy does best.  The whole story of the war with Japan and much of the international intrigue is fascinating.  This is as good as Clancy gets.  There are some  minor flaws with the book, but they don't interfere too badly with the main  plot line:<br />1.  I figured out the resolution to the National economic  crisis before any of the characters in the book.  It was so obvious, I was  surprised it was used.<br />2.  Clancy feels this needs to bring back  characters from old books and puts them into pointless subplots.  The  subplot with the old Coast Guard Captain on Saipan didn't really add that  much to the story.  The marines sneaking into Japan was completely  contrived.<br />3.  Clancy beats the reader over the head with his views  against military downsizing with over exaggeration and implausible  situations.<br />4.  The ending leads up to the horrible Executive Orders,  where Clancy really loses it.	2000-03-29
US	50181141	R37ULKIYBWMUR2	0425122123	629388832	Clear and Present Danger (A Jack Ryan Novel)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Probably Clancy's best book	This is probably Clancy's best book.  It is a nice tight action packed story without the usual worthless subplots.  It doesn't have the heavy  handed patriotism of most of Clancy's other books.  This book is deeper  because there is a lot of questionable, ruthless government activity that  isn't glorified or praised.    <br />This book has the best character  development of any of Clancy's book. Clancy's most interesting, best  rounded character is introduced in this book-Ding.  (No, it's not John  Clark/Kelly, although he is also at his best in this book.) Unfortonately,  Clancy will flatten them out in later books.<br />This book is unusual.   Clancy's strength is war games and the techno thriller.  He usually falls  flat on his face when he departs from that formula (Without Remorse, Sum of  All Fears, Cardinal of the Kremlin, and most of Executive Orders).  But  this book is about the Drug Wars, only has a small section of war games and  is still a very interesting story.	2000-03-29
US	50181141	R18ZFFXVZFHX83	0425143325	685045441	Without Remorse (John Clark Novel, A)	Books	2	11	15	N	N	Not Clancy's strength	Tom Clancy's strength has been writing the techno-thriller.  The weak points in his books have been characterizations and dialog, especially casual conversation.  All of his characters have been one dimensional,  wooden stereotypes.  Trying to expand more on wooden characters is one of  the reasons his Executive Orders is so bad (one of many reasons).<br />Without  Remorse is a basic action/revenge novel. It is set in the low tech drug  world. It relies much more on character and emotions. Some interest,  dimension, and character development is given to the hero by evolving him  into a revenge machine without remorse.  But, that is the only interesting  aspect of the hero and Clancy ends up cheapening it by later glorifying it  in this book and Executive Orders.  The other characters in the book aren't  very interesting.  Clancy is very awkard with the love stories and emotions  and some of it is just embarrassing.<br />But Clancy isn't the only action  writer that has problems with character development (Ludlum is only mildly  better).  What's really important, is the book exciting?  The ending is  pretty good and there are a few good action sequences in the middle.  But,  there are long boring stretches while Clancy tries in vain to develop the  characters.<br />This book is about the origins of Kelly, the CIA agent who  appears in most of the Jack Ryan books.  I started reading Debt of Honor,  but stopped when I heard about this book.  I switched to Without Remorse  because I thought that there might be important insights in this book that  lead up to the later books.  It turned out that there were no important  revelations here and it really has no impact on the later stories.  For  someone who continues to follow the Jack Ryan series, this book might be a  must read.  But, I may have given up on Clancy after the horrible Executive  Orders and there are many writers who do this type of story better.	2000-03-28
US	50181141	R1XMLVNWBHBYOZ	0425158632	506174805	Executive Orders (A Jack Ryan Novel)	Books	1	7	12	N	N	I can't believe anyone would give this 5 stars	This book really upset me.  It was long, boring, repititious and had no ending.  All this time is spent building up 7 or 8 major story lines, and only 1 is concluded satisfactorily.  The rest have some quick partial  conclusion or are left completely dangling.  For instance, there is the one  plot line about Mountain Men who scope out the Whitehouse, go home, build a  huge truck bomb and start to drive it back to Washington.  All this setup  takes hundreds of pages.  Then less than halfway there, some sheriff smells  the bomb and arrests the Mountain Men.  This is all concluded in two pages  and there is no follow up of the ramifications or what happens to remaining  Mountain Men. No suspense and no tension.  What happened with the ex-Vice  President trying to reclaim his throne?  What about China and the invasion  plans?<br />Clancy used to write nice, tight stories that moved along at a  good clip and had great endings.  There are some interesting elements in  this one. But for the most part, it is just slow and plodding.  It was if  he got to page 1200, realized that he had to wrap things up and just ended  the book.  It upset me that I spent so much time wading through this stuff,  only to have no ending or payoff.	2000-03-01
