US	50180846	R12WNT15V3UEM8	0517005387	68631705	Great Figures of Mythology	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Some beautiful images.	Friday, January 28, 2005 / 4 of 5 / Some beautiful images.<br /><br />This is a large hardcover book offering some beautiful full page images of ancient civilizations' mythos.  Interspersed are a quick, paragraph or two encyclopedia of heroes, gods, villains, of Greek, Roman, Egyptian, Sumerian, Norse, etc. mythology.  Certainly not meant to be a definitive or exhaustive work I think I just picked it up because it was on the bargain rack and it's a subject that I've always enjoyed.  A pleasant companion piece.	2005-01-29
US	50180846	RU35YUA31LX3X	0375706933	985414595	My Cat Spit McGee	Books	3	3	6	N	N	Fairly Pedestrian Conversion Story, Lacks Gusto	I finished this book with my beloved Siamese, Tia, draped across my lap.  As she looked up at me and I gazed down at her, I wondered what I found lacking about this novel.  Was it not gushing or reverential enough?  Was Morris too languid or episodic?  It wasn't too bad necessarily, but it didn't leap out demanding 5 stars like I was hoping for when I saw it.  There are of course mild laughs to be had by some of the anecdotes, and by the end the author's conversion is complete. Willie Morris, who apparently was always a `dog' man, circuitously comes into the company of split eyed Spit McGee.  Spit grows on Morris over time.  The rest of the novel details their interaction and the constant comparisons to his previous dogs. There are a couple groups who will read this book, those that have been cat lovers all their lives, and those like Morris who are joiners.  I fall into the former camp. I think my disaffection here boils down to impatience with those who don't grasp the allure and majesty of cats initially, and need to go on some sort of personal vision quest to `get' it.  Arguably, that may make the late comers appreciative, but the author's constant questioning, comparing, and reassessing of the cats love is unnecessary for the born ailurophile. Juxtaposed to the sloppy, loud, non-focused devotion of a dog, when a cat chooses to grace you as an object of affection it is a supremely special gift. Thankfully, it appeared that Morris eventually realized this.	2004-08-01
US	50180846	R2WNXUYD84JRER	0762409371	629816191	Arcade Fever The Fan's Guide To The Golden Age Of Video Games	Books	3	7	12	N	N	At least there are some nice cab shots	Like Supercade, this collection doesn't bring much new to the table for the retrogame fan.  Just seems like another attempt to cash in on our age brackets' nostalgia.  Assembled within are a number of games from the golden age of arcades.  The choices themselves are safe, and look like they could have been compiled easily from Videotopia or Mame32's Golden Age folder.  The authors irreverent commentary has been touched upon by other reviewers; I also found it off putting and juvenile.  Really the only thing going for this book were the cabinet shots.  The screen snaps were once again ripped from Mame without much credit, but at least they weren't run through Photoshop with a failing art students eye like Van Burnham did in Supercade.  Any factual information the author provided, beyond his own hackneyed description of gameplay, could easily be found in Mame's history.dat file.  First Quarter by Kent is still a benchmark for these types of retrospect even though that book didn't necessarily concentrate solely on the arcade market.  For those interested in retrogaming who may not already know: Mame32, the Win32 GUI version of Mame, at version .76 [4499 arcade games supported] seeks to preserve these games through emulation, it also facilitates the creation and collection of marquees, screen shots, control panels, cabinets, flyers, and historical information about designers, stories, etc. in one place.  The program itself, as a living documentation project, far exceeds written efforts like this.  Just google on Mame32 to find it.	2003-10-31
US	50180846	RFB7551JXJEB4	0262024926	946257493	Supercade: A Visual History of the Videogame Age 1971-1984	Books	3	47	60	N	N	Photoshoped Mame Screenshots and some extra	I'm 33 and cut my teeth on Firetruck, Space Invaders, Asteroids, and Dkong.  Having been involved with the Mame project for 6 years, which attempts to preserve arcade games through emulation, I'm always interested to read new books on this subject.  Supercade caught my attention with its gaudy presentation and heft.  It's a glossy collection of easily smudged pages with screenshots taken from Mame with rudimentary Photoshop filters applied along with some image skewing, and flyers and cabinets shots also from the collection/emulation community.  Most of the screenshots are accompanied by short descriptions that could easily have come verbatim from Mame's history.dat file, originally compiled by Brian Deuel.  One could also imagine the author going through Mame32's year folders one by one looking for tasty tidbits to present as one-offs or games not as mass produced as Pac-Man.  Steven Kent's books do a better job burrowing into the stories behind these games and I enjoyed his writing style more than this author.  All that said it does still have merit in that it nicely lumps all of this together in what could be described as a coffee table style art book.  It may provide an accessible entry to the classic gaming genre for the newbie, but the hardcore will already have delved into other more mature offerings on the subject, including Mame itself which this book owes for much of its information.	2003-03-09
US	50180846	R2ATEBR5XSCD8I	0062502182	472619578	The Alchemist: A Fable About Following Your Dream	Books	3	6	7	N	N	Innocuous, Light, Vision Quest.	I came to the Alchemist without any preconceived ideas about its purpose as an inspirational tome or its literary accolades.  It was only after completing it on a flight back to WA from AZ and going to review it, that I saw the 306 polarized opinions.  Read for simply entertainment value, it is a light, breezy tale of a shepherd who makes a personal vision quest to find a treasure ostensibly in him the whole time.  Sprinkled throughout is a hodgepodge of philosophical / new age tidbits from more mature belief systems and religions.  I read with mild amusement the author's take on the idea of Platonic Forms and absolute truths, harkening back to my classical philosophy readings.  I could see where its continually hammered message of `listen to your heart' might hit home with those yearning for direction, and to that I say, \\"To each, their own\\".  People find inspiration in many things, and apparently this book provides that to some.  For sheer elegance in a short form, I enjoyed Silk by Barrico much more but found the Alchemist innocuous enough, and not deserving of the vitriol of some of the reviews.	2002-03-19
US	50180846	R1DOPVJBDFW69B	0897214250	377342029	Ortho All About Bulbs (Ortho's All About Gardening)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Informative and Glossy, w/ Nice Presentation	This was a very pleasant Valentine's Day gift from my new wife, she has been very supportive of my bourgeoning gardening hobby, and wanted me to try my hand at some Calla Lilies.  The book is divided into two parts, w/ the bulk being taken up by the requisite encyclopedia/directory.  The presentation is very slick and attractive, much like a magazine.  Large, full color photographs of each bulb type meet the reader, as well as informative sections on the beginnings of the popularization of tulips, and how to cut and propagate them.  While not as extensive as `The Bulb Expert' from the seminal Dr. Hessayon series, I was nonetheless happy with the brief descriptions of care, light, uses, soil, and hardiness information which accompanied each entry.  This makes a great gift for this time of year, because you can still get a lot of the bulbs into the ground for your late spring, summer plantings.  I wouldn't hesitate to recommend this as a primer or introduction to bulbs.	2002-02-19
US	50180846	R3CVIPYXA7W7IH	0970475500	220174002	The First Quarter : A 25-year History of Video Games	Books	5	0	0	N	Y	Grand, sweeping epic on the birth of video games.	Steven Kent's labor of love is an excellent, sweeping overview of the birth and rise of the video game industry. This appreciative 32 year old was there for the Bronze and Golden Age of the arcade heyday, cutting my teeth on Firetruck and being swept away in turn by Space Invaders, Asteroids, and Donkey Kong. I groaned when my dad brought home an Intellivision when I wanted a VCS, and the neighbor kid was the only one around w/ a Bally Astrocade. Like many others, I read bits and pieces of Steven's book when it was partially serialized in Next Gen. magazine [often it was the only thing worthwhile in there, but anyhow] and was pleased to get my hands on the finished product. I chuckled when I read another reviewer mention it was a page turner, but that's exactly how it turned out. Going all the way back to pinball and then to the forgotten fathers, he examines interactive digital entertainment's humble beginnings. The reading is somewhat disjointed and non-linear as many of the events and timelines overlap, when one story is completed, another starts back at the beginning. I was especially fascinated by the often incestuous job hopping of some of the major protagonists, as they would leave Atari for instance, create a new third-party software house, then be hired by a competitor, then a next gen usurper. The beginnings of Atari often provided the most rollicking stories, I got a kick out of reading about the early employees who often carried a hatchet with them on their arcade routes just in case they were jumped. As the arcade scene waned, the home consoles rose in power and stature. Atari, Intellivision, Colecovision consoles overlapped the arcade pinnacle, eventually begetting Nintendo, Sega, 3DO, and Sony offerings. Through it all Kent ties in the threads of the men who created these and moved throughout the industry, numerous interviews highlight their place in this blossoming field. Further, as a NW native, I was pleased to see the included side-bar about Nintendo swooping in and saving our Seattle Mariners from the brink. This is an excellent companion and supplement to the existing free open-source documentation/preservation projects that are proceeding apace on the web. These emulators allow users of the original media to play back any of the games original code on their PCs. The largest and most influential of these is M.A.M.E, the multi-arcade-machine-emulator. Currently, Mame supports close to 3000 arcade games via their rom images, going all the way back to 1975's Gun Fight, the first microprocessor game, an 8080 running at 2MHz. Mame's point is to provide a documentation of the hardware of these games, which could be lost to time. Unlike commercial offerings, it intends to document *all* games, not just the hits. When Kent talked about Toru Iwatani, the designer of Pac-Man, he mentioned that Iwatani wanted to do pinball games at first, and that Namco allowed him to do some pseudo-pinball games as a compromise. I knew at once through Mame that they were the Cutie-Q, Bombbee series. There are emulators for just about every console mentioned by Kent too, from Dan Boris' Odyssey emulator, to Stella/Z26 for VCS, to Bliss for Intellivision and on and on. Being able to play the games of our collective childhood's sparked the retrogaming revolution, and Kent's book provides a great historical background for those interested in the history side of things. Additionally, w/ the creation of Visual Pinball by Randy Davis, a great number of the best tables of all time have been recreated and are only a click away. Kent talked about Ballyhoo as the first commercially viable table, and VPinball has it. I really enjoyed the book, from its humble beginnings and stories of Nolan's jacuzzi parties to multi-million dollar product launches, the industry has come a long, long way in merely 25 years. Highly recommended. For further arcade game history, also see Mame's history.dat file, initially compiled by Brian Deuel, and currently maintained at sys2064.com.ntained at sys2064.com.	2001-06-12
US	50180846	R17CT2EZMYPH4J	1569715025	939901270	Lone Wolf and Cub, Vol. 1: Assassin's Road	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Pinnacle of the Genre and Art Form	It was with child-like glee and excitement that I found Dark Horse was re-issuing the Lone Wolf and Cub  series. Having first become aware of this historic series in 1981 w/ F. Schodt's seminal work, 'Manga  Manga' I had to wait another ten years for the translation to be started by First Comics. At the time I  collected those, I had no idea of the scope of the original series.  8000 pages in the original 1970's run?!  Before First discontinued the series, stiffing us subscribers, they had only scratched the surface. To compound things, they did not follow the original order of the periodical. That, apparently, is now being rectified as Dark Horse has committed to 28 volumes at ~300 pages each. A few days ago I went out and bought the current 8 volumes in one fell swoop.  The format has changed, the books are considerably  smaller to mirror their last print run in Japan.  The books are compact 6&quot; tall, and must be held quite close to read.  That does not detract at all.  The story of the disgraced 17th century Shogun's executioner  wandering the country as an assassin to endeavor to clear his family's name is a classic.  His son Daigoro  travels with him after the death of the mother, and provides an innocent life-fulfilling counterbalance to  the bloody death dealt by the father.  I cannot speak highly enough of this series, the artwork is  monumental in its ability to capture mood, motion, and naturalistic quietude with nary a word spoken.  The pacing of the fight scenes is remarkable.  There is an austere beauty in the black and white treatment, coupled with an amazingly epic storyline, it adds up to a pinnacle of the genre.  Highly recommended.	2001-05-22
US	50180846	R1GGG6072HH6OU	0385488718	374237140	Serpent in Paradise	Books	2	4	8	N	N	Average Telling of Anthro-like Tale	A fairly pedestrian travel/adventure bio about an English woman who decides, after viewing `The Bounty', to learn about the island of Pitcairn and scheme to get there.  This small, isolated island is where the original mutineers of the Bounty eventually landed and began a community which has since dwindled to number in the 30's.  The packaging is somewhat misleading, not only in its description of how many people had gone to Pitcairn before, the author was not the first, but also in its setting expectations that the island would be considerably more rudimentary.  Without regular external contact, I suppose I wasn't expecting electricity through generators, island natives running about on four-wheel ATVs, and passing the time watching videos.  Typical anthropological biases come into play especially with her romanticizing the situation, condescension towards the natives and their customs, and her stand-offish isolation at times.  Her amusing attempts to rationalize a sordid encounter w/ the island's resident lothario, provide a mild distraction from an otherwise unremarkable narrative.  For a similar, much more elegant treatment of daily survival in a society, see `Shipwrecks' by Yoshimura, or Dr. Sack's `Island of the Colorblind'.	2001-05-06
US	50180846	R1IXWJECCPBQ6D	0789410710	962741401	Gardening Hints and Tips	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Wide Ranging, Broad Overviews	As the title suggests this is a wide ranging book which touches on a lot of areas of gardening.  I approached it from a container/patio gardening background and found that there was only a small section devoted to that unfortunately.  But, it did produce some interesting tips like using spent tea bags or broken plastic nursery pots when providing drainage at the bottom of pots instead of the traditional shards of pottery.  There were also interesting sections on water gardening which I'm going to delve into in the spring.  The rest dealt with larger gardens proper, including lawn care, animal/pest control, plant care,  concrete/brickwork etc.  Similar in scope to the previously reviews Virgin Gardener by Edwards, it is a more compact and transportable read.  I'll use it as a reference when I graduate beyond the confines of my patio.	2001-01-12
US	50180846	R10930F9WKH6YR	0812062787	403452977	Container Plants: For Patios, Balconies, and Window Boxes	Books	4	30	30	N	N	Very Helpful Overwintering Reference Sections	This makes book 4 in a row in my quest to learn the wonders of container gardening, and it does a pretty good job.  The first third of this work follows the lead of the previous, it shows the four seasons and a decent number of example containers along with the dimensions and what it would take at the nursery to put it together.  The final two thirds though is where it shines, the author provides a compact encyclopedia of container plants arranged by scientific name.  The plus here is that they include information for each and every one on overwintering.  Starting my garden in November in Zone 8 I found this information extremely useful when picking out my next project.  Overall a very good offering, especially for the reference information contained therein. For further reading, I suggest Hillier's book [for great ideas/examples], and David Joyce's for classification based on color.	2001-01-04
US	50180846	R3SROIZDM8MNWT	0895778483	179697924	The Complete Container Garden	Books	4	58	58	N	N	Color Groupings Distinguishes This Work	Beautifully presented, this book provides two different functions.  The first part of the book is a standard introduction to container gardening, with information about how to plant pots, the order, and how best to arrange them.  The author has some very nice instructional graphics to illustrate the steps, disembodied hands working in the dirt.  The second and more interesting part of the book involved his breakdown of container plant types by color.  Each main area of the color wheel is given a section, and plants for that color are described for spring, summer, and fall/winter.  If you like to work and create your arrangements by combining color schemes, this will be very helpful.  I'm still at the stage where a book like Hillier's `Container Gardening Through the Year' was more appropriate providing concrete examples that you can go out and put together.  Joyce does do that for a variety of pots, indicating through pot-maps where things should be planted etc., but that's not the main thrust of the book it appeared.  I did like the presentation and can understand the high rankings this work receives.	2000-12-09
US	50180846	R2X4HXJTTXP170	078943296X	56637825	Container Gardening Through the Year (DK Living)	Books	5	31	31	N	N	Extremely Helpful Primer, Full of Ideas	A gift from a mother to her newbie gardener son, this is the best text I've sampled so far on container gardening how-to.  It's essentially an ornate lesson planner slash visual catalog.  Being overwhelmed by the variety of choices available to a novice, this book takes the direction of showing you the authors own display ideas, along w/ information on number of plants needed, initial planting steps, container size information, and how large the display will get. Granted, my choices are a bit light starting my garden in the winter chapter, I'm still very enthusiastic about recreating some of his pieces: minty evergreens and red winter berries.  The large, glossy, full color photos effectively help to give an idea of size, scope, and often texture of the displays, as they contrast their containers. As mentioned in another review, his eye for color, and his knack for matching the pots to their plants are very impressive.  The printing I have is from 1995; perhaps the 1998 version has added a few new items.  I found this an excellent primer for the beginner.	2000-11-20
US	50180846	R1YC1KLLHIPI15	0670892432	472800375	The Virgin Gardener	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Good Intro to Gardening from Various Directions	The interest was cultivated slowly.  I had cared for indoor bonsai for a few years, then recently decided to try forcing some bulbs indoors in winter, having so much fun with that I thought I'd jump into the world of container gardening outside on my patio.  Where to start? A trip to the local bookstore yielded up this book in the bargain section.  Nicely presented and glossy, the scope of this work is rather wide, as the author attempted to touch on numerous entry points to the world of gardening.  He introduces the new arrival to the jargon of the plant world, so you can know your perennial from your hardy evergreen.  This was quite helpful to provide the vocabulary for me to express my plant wants on trips to the local nursery.  The various growing zones for the US are described, and case studies are provided for each category and chapter:  ground cover, potted plants, climbers, shrubs, and flowers.  Sections on what to do for various times of the year, and planting suggestions were welcome additions. From this book I found more specialized works dealing exclusively with container / patio gardening. Overall, an enjoyable, interesting read, not only for a container garden beginner, but also those who come to gardening through inheritance of unruly plots, or those with a desire to build water gardens, bogs, and more freeform designs.	2000-11-18
US	50180846	R3JIK6Y1B8JSL5	0684859246	619339613	Harvey Penick's Little Red Book: Lessons and Teachings from a Lifetime in Golf	Books	5	72	77	N	N	A Golf Lifetime Shared	Ben Crenshaw doubled over and openly wept after holing out to win the 1995 Masters tournament.  His golf teacher, friend, and father figure Harvey Penick had passed away shortly before the tourney.  Ben felt that Harvey was `guiding' him in the final rounds, and the emotions finally overtook him.  The impact of the moment was very touching, but it wasn't until I finished Harvey's Little Red book that I began to understand the poignancy of the connection. The 90-year-old Penick had taught Ben since Ben was 7.  The little red book of the title is the notebook, journal, and freeform diary of Mr. Penick.  Compiled from golf observations throughout his life, it was only in his waning years that he agreed to allow anyone to see it.  What a treat and a privilege it was to read.  This is a wonderful piece of literature.  Having recently completed Hogan and Armour's instructional guides, this was an excellent follow up.  Not nearly as meticulously mechanical and cold as Hogan, nor as blandly wandering as Armour, Penick's actual instruction is extremely straightforward in its scope.  I also think that the longer one has played golf the greater one appreciates this work.  Not written strictly for the beginner, as the other two books are, Harvey comments not only on instruction and mechanics, but also course design, tournaments, hustlers, metaphorical imagery, and caddying in the early part of the century.  Throughout the book, his love of teaching and his immense pride in his pupils continues to carry the theme, allowing one to understand the connection he had with his students.  Having become extremely weary of the cloying media and corporate anointment of T. Woods, reading about golf as seen through Harvey Penick's eyes was a much-needed tonic.  Highly recommended.	2000-09-20
US	50180846	R34ZME7O1S1AJB	0684813793	732578471	How to Play Your Best Golf All the Time	Books	4	14	16	N	N	Nice Complement to Hogan�s Work	This is a helpful instructional book that could easily be bundled with  Hogan's Five Lessons.  Where Hogan's text is meticulously precise in its  depiction of the mechanics of the golf swing, Armour's offering delves into  the mental arena and probes the mindset behind the various aspects of the  game.  Copywrite 1953, its year of publication even mirrors that of  Hogan's, but beyond that the contrasts are striking [granted Hogan's text  started out as a series of SI articles].  Having worked through some  personal golf issues with Hogan's book and after writing a review for that,  I noticed Armour's under the `if you liked this book' link.  I purchased it  on a lark being obliquely familiar with Armour's professional and teaching  career, and seeing the quote by Harvey Pennick on the cover.  Armour's tone  versus his contemporary is quite authoritative and at times almost  condescending in his depiction of the `average' golfer and his urging to  play within their limitations.  He models the early chapters after a visit  to his golf clinic in Florida, speaking always as the teacher and never a  peer.  It was his stated intention to produce a thin volume of the absolute  minimized, efficient teachings about golf.  This I believe he accomplished.  The instruction would be good for a beginning golfer, there were a few  tips scattered throughout for the long time player. Unfortunately, I didn't  see too much new and fresh that I could take with me onto the course,  perhaps because his themes have long been drilled into our heads by modern  pros.  The illustrations are nowhere near the quality and detail of the  Hogan book.  Ultimately I did get more out of the Hogan text, but Armour's  was very interesting to `hear' his teaching methodology and his numerous  references to players and tournaments of the 30's and 40's.  Punctuating  this timelessness, when I was talking to my father the other night I  mentioned to him this was the latest golf book I was reading, to which he  replied, \\"Yep, that's what I learned with 40 years ago.\\"  Recommended to be  read along with Ben Hogan's `Five Lessons'.he  replied, \\"Yep, that's what I learned with 40 years ago.\\"  Recommended to be  read along with Ben Hogan's `Five Lessons'.	2000-09-12
US	50180846	R2FP316S29AYZM	0375703829	22806037	Silk	Books	5	10	11	N	N	A Most Efficient Beauty	I can't recall the last time I read a short novel as efficiently beautiful  as this.  Silk is a very economic story of pining devotion and covert  obsession [ah, but between which players]. Mixing a stylized poetry and  prose, the Italian author tells the story of a 19th century French silkworm  trader and his numerous clandestine visits to Japan to replenish their  [French] dying silk trade.  This takes place prior to Commodore Perry's  opening of Japan, so risks against foreigners are quite real.  Leaving his  beloved but somewhat staid wife each October, the main character departs  his village with his cargo of gold to return the next April with silkworm  eggs.  The author portrays this physical journey on a single page multiple  times in metronomic succession.  Herv&eacute;'s arrival in Japan and eventual  audience with a local lord allows him to gaze in sublimated wonder at the  lord's beautiful concubine.  An unspoken poignant moment occurs between the  two as they gaze languidly at each other.  At this point the reader knows  these two will be linked somehow.  The reader however is not given access  to Herv&eacute;'s heart.  He makes his way back to France, back to his wife, whom  he proceeds to love even more. The next year's journey to Japan allows him  another opportunity to observe the doll-like mistress, but this time an  assignation occurs.  How will Herv&eacute;  reconcile his wistful desire for the  concubine with his unwavering devotion to his French wife? I found the  quality and pacing of the translation to approach the style of certain  Japanese texts I have read, and the effect is austerely provocative.  Combining the allure and mystery of Japan, turn of the century romance, and  a lyrical poetic quality, Silk does not disappoint.  In its thin confines,  the novel ultimately provides numerous glimpses into the heart of a man and  woman. Recommended.	2000-09-06
US	50180846	R2NP9E7HRBNKJ8	0156006006	75363464	Ingenious Pain (Harvest Book)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Pent Up Pain Destroys and Rebuilds	Precise, cold, and cutting.  Reflecting the lead character Dr. James Dyer,  the author succeeds admirably in impressing upon the reader the lack of  passion, empathy, or human feeling in this story.  That is not a  condemnation; to the contrary, by the time the novel has finished, Dyer has  gone through a transformation to a more sympathetic character, producing a  strong emotional response.  This novel continues the favorable trend I've  seen with English authors, including Rupert Thompson and Patrick McGrath.  I find something about their writing styles fascinating and alluring, so  crisp, cool, and ultimately detached.  The novel takes place in the early  1700's.  James Dyer, bastard son, is born without the ability to feel  physical pain.  As one might imagine, this opens the doors to some  interesting careers, including con artist sidekick [magic elixir cures all  pain, buy now], and high society medical curiosity.  Eventually though,  Dyer, who incidentally is as uncaring and emotionally aloof as he is  impervious to injury, decides to become a physician.  Slicing and dicing  with gusto and a stilted bedside manner, he creates quite a name for  himself, including a stint in the British navy.  A sprint to the far  reaches of Russia is necessary for James to begin his descent to the world  of pain for his hubris.  Contributing to this descent are his erstwhile  travel partners and a mysterious, almost otherworldly presence in the  character of Mary.  Dyer's eventual indoctrination to the world of pain he  has skirted for so long is shattering.  The remainder of the novel deals  with slow, painful metamorphosis.  Upon completion I like to reflect on the  emotion(s) produced by a novel.  With Ingenious Pain, it is pity and  sympathy.  A very good read, and recommended.	2000-08-23
US	50180846	R2TGQSVWPOAN5P	0609805118	209901418	Golf Handbook for Women: The Complete Guide to Improving Your Game	Books	5	5	7	N	N	A Glossy Presentation w/ Some Teeth	Further efforts to find an updated, complimentary text for my golf-learning girlfriend led me to this pleasant offering. Nicely packaged, slick and glossy, it pictorially compliments more mechanical texts like Ben  Hogan's Fundamentals. This book is well laid out, discussion of golf  equipment is presented right off the bat. Grip, stance, posture follow in  order.  It reads like a collection of easy to follow magazine-style  lessons. Interestingly, immediately following the basic structures they  include information on shot shaping, dealing w/ pulls, pushes, fades,  draws, etc. which may be overkill for that point in the instruction.  Ultimately though it is quite a nice `guide', touching on golf etiquette  thankfully, providing some interesting exercises, and running down oft used  golf rules. Hopefully the presentation will score some points; seeing all  the women in the examples, and hearing the voice of the female author  versus some of the gender neutral or male dominated texts I've thrown at  her. Ah golf!	2000-07-20
US	50180846	R2RBWF16QFKVOF	0671612972	40467685	Ben Hogan's Five Lessons: The Modern Fundamentals of Golf	Books	5	165	177	N	N	Timeless Instruction from a Master	This excellent teaching device found me at the right time, having mysteriously started struggling with my takeaway and back swing [right elbow flying out at the top!].  I poured through it in a night to search  for the secret cure and I found it.  I can't believe it took me 18 years of  golf to discover this book. This really should be in every beginner's bag,  to get his or her mechanics and fundamentals together, as well as any long  time golfer who occasionally 'loses' it. It's quite a testament to its  staying power to note that there are no reviews of less than five stars for  this wonderful manual [my rating will be no different].  Hogan boils down  the game to one important aspect, striking the ball. Grip, stance, setup,  back swing, downswing are all meticulously verbally described, and then  highlighted by amazingly detailed and accurate drawings. Written as a  series of SI articles in the 50's, the teaching voice has lost none of its  punch over the ensuing years.  The gods are in the details, and I noted  immediately in the setup section things I was doing to hinder the  chain-reaction of his preferred swing. Left foot out a quarter turn, hmm,  that's new but makes sense, elbows at hipbone at address, and arms very  close to chest to allow the right elbow to fold properly.  That's what I  needed. His description and the images of the glass / back swing /  downswing plane will provide appropriate visual clues during practice.  I  found his discussion of the waggle and supination of left hand on follow  through also quite interesting. I've purchased copies of this for my  long-time golfer mother and my girlfriend who's just taking up the game,  hopefully they'll enjoy it as much as I did, and we can discuss Hogan's  straightforward instruction with a common background understanding.	2000-07-14
US	50180846	RXVOKK5RJC1SD	0375700730	496848842	The Island of the Colorblind	Books	4	29	31	N	N	Anthropology and Neurology Meet in Micronesia	Having thoroughly enjoyed `The Man Who Mistook His Wife for a Hat' I opted to make this my second Dr. Sacks outing.  Once again the good doctor provides compelling, humane, interesting stories about odd physiological  conditions and the cultures that foster and contend with them.  In multiple  episodes that have him traveling to small volcanic islands in Micronesia,  the entertaining neurologist studies a group of people who have been born  without the ability to see color.  Accompanying him is a Nordic specialist  in this genetic trait, and one who also happens to share the same  condition. As the troupe moves about the islands, they meet and talk with  the achromatopes; the natives and Knut evince a feeling of camaraderie. Dr.  Sacks plumbs their depths to hear them describe their world in terms of  textures and monochrome shades, completely barren of color.  Along the way,  he experiences a taste of their `night' lives, the skills they have  developed to compensate for their lack of color sight. The next topic in  the island hopping takes them to Guam where Sacks sees the patients of an  associate who suffer from lytico-bodig, a degenerative condition which  causes paralysis [not unlike Dr. Sacks' own neurological patients] and  eventual dissolution. Having struck only a certain age bracket on the  islands, the mysterious disease has confounded science for almost four  decades and has almost killed off its victims.  Finally, he treks to Rota  to walk among the ancient Cycad plants that have captured his imagination  since childhood. This novel appealed to the adventurer's spirit while I was  reading it, listening to Dr. Sacks describes the beauty of the island  culture and the supremely languid pace of life. Dr. Sacks' writing is not  only aesthetically entertaining, but his case studies continue to pique the  interest of the intellect.  However, one is never so bowled over by the  beauty of the surroundings as to forget the real human cases being  presented.  It is indeed an odd combination, this beauty and tragedy, but  one that works very well in this novel producing an enjoyable read.is indeed an odd combination, this beauty and tragedy, but  one that works very well in this novel producing an enjoyable read.	2000-07-13
US	50180846	R2HDKZIG57VBF1	0553107933	787702348	Driving Myself Crazy: Misadventures of a Novice Golfer	Books	4	0	0	N	Y	Amusing, Non-Threatening Story of Golf Indoctrination	While attempting to convey the allure and timeless majesty of golf to my just-learning-the-game girlfriend, I chanced to spy this nicely presented short novel. Purchasing it as a gift with her in mind, I definitely wanted  something gentle and compelling to hold her attention and not overwhelm.  Curiosity got the better of me, and rather than turn it over, I took three  days to pour through it, ostensibly to verify its claim as a humorous  anecdotal journey.  I found myself laughing along with the author at many  of her nascent exploits, showing newbie golf from a woman's point of view  [clothing, equipment, and romantic issues abound].  After meeting the  mysterious, but benign golfer-Svengali, Graham, she goes through a series  of neo-mystical encounters with a variety of teaching pros and golf  luminaries like Nancy Lopez.  She comes to a deeper understanding of the  game and its hold on its practitioners. Parts of this journey have her  visiting golf meccas on the East coast, as well as playing her NW home  courses.  As a fellow north westerner, having played those great courses  too, I caught myself nodding with appreciation at her descriptions of  Sandpines, Salishan, and Pumpkin Ridge.  Eventually she even makes the  ultimate pilgrimage to Scotland, to visit St. Andrews, the home and heart  of golf. Presented rather whimsically, and with good-natured humour, the  book ranges about, just as the author did, touching on various philosophies  of golf. She absorbs and assimilates each one, combining and piling them  upon each other until she has a two minute litany before each ball address.  Her light humor throughout this indoctrination never detracts from her  bourgeoning respect for the game and its tradition. The Tao of golf  inclusion was particularly endearing, as many golfers feel the game fits  that line of thought perfectly.  So, after smiling many times during the  read, I can pass this on without hesitation with a positive recommendation.	2000-06-27
US	50180846	R19DJOY0OISNM4	0452281458	267176978	Beauty's Release: A Novel (Sleeping Beauty Trilogy)	Books	4	63	84	N	N	Control and Compliance in a more Exotic Locale	The third and concluding chapter in Anne Rice's erotic retelling of the sleeping beauty fairy tale, sees Beauty, Tristan, Laurent, and some secondary slaves from the village kidnapped and whisked away to more  sensual adventures in an unnamed Arabian kingdome.  Armed with first person  dialogue and reflection through Laurent [the rebellious, willful fugitive  slave from book 2], and a more exotic locale/plot, this chapter in the  story was considerably more interesting than the second, which I gave 3  stars.  Part of the allure of this version for me was a release from the  utter crudity of the European castle and village.  Beauty's escapades with  the Sultan's harem and his main wife were presented with a lot more sublime  sensuality than the whipping and paddling of the previous books. Laurent's  transformation from slave to master mentality and his ability to exist  moving seamlessly between the two are also compelling aspects.  The slaves  eventually relish their time with the Sultan above all else, having even  their higher reason sublimated.  They are told not to talk, nor to express  anything other than the most rudimentary understanding as they are used as  sex toys, or living sculptures to line the Sultan's gardens, bed, bath,  etc.  It is this complete abasement and personality disintegration that  Tristan, the most philosophical of the group, touches on when asked why he  loves it so.  Religious and philosophical thoughts of the region combine to  show them that they are simply cogs in a grander scheme, and they take  pleasure and freedom in this anonymity.  Further plot break-down would lead  to spoilers, so suffice it to say there is eventually closure for each of  the characters.  Upon completing the series I feel better about it than  after the second book, it helped to think of it anthropologically as if  these strange undercurrents were the results of a completely different  culture.  In that respect it was quite interesting to observe the push for  control, compliance, dominance, and love, and question whether that can be  squared with ideas of entwined aggression and tenderness. Anne Rice  provides the framework and fairy tale, but readers must ultimately decide  that answer for themselves.control, compliance, dominance, and love, and question whether that can be  squared with ideas of entwined aggression and tenderness. Anne Rice  provides the framework and fairy tale, but readers must ultimately decide  that answer for themselves.	2000-06-17
US	50180846	R1BUXJIZL0G3JR	0452281431	533637295	Beauty's Punishment: A Novel (Sleeping Beauty Trilogy)	Books	3	76	95	N	N	Past the Spanking, to the Psychology	It had been a year or so since I had read the first one, and after completing this installment I would strongly suggest, for continuity sake, that people do not allow that lapse of time.  Recall that this is an  updated erotic version of the sleeping beauty fairy tale.  The Prince in  this medieval version wakes Beauty from her 100-year sleep not with a kiss,  but by making her a sexual initiate.  This act coupled with the mores and  power structures of the land force Beauty off to the Prince's distant  castle where she will undergo all manner of S&amp;M and bondage. Despite  becoming a castle favorite amongst the nobles, the Prince, and the Queen  herself, Beauty's spirit and `soul' is not broken by these acts and she  willfully disobeys.  She is sentenced to slavery in the neighboring  village, and that is where this book takes up. Beauty and her final castle  paramour Tristan are sold at auction in the village square, Beauty goes to  an inn while Tristan is snapped up by one of the villagers richest men, the  Queen's chronicler. What follows for the two are a series of spankings,  public punishments, being dressed up like a pony [complete with, er, tail  accoutrements] to pull carts, and being `forced' to pleasure a wide variety  of lodgers, and other slaves. It should also be mentioned that the castle  slaves who are sent to the village for punishment must run around bereft of  clothes, and never speak unless told to. It is here that the story flags,  the punishments and humiliations mount, but we are only vaguely aware of  both protagonists' feelings and thoughts as this continues. Beauty gives in  to it all and comes to appreciate her place, but she does not give over the  love of her soul.  The numerous, and I do mean numerous, spankings become  banal after awhile as the reader desensitizes. I found things becoming more  interesting psychologically about 5/6 of the way through when Nicolas  [Tristan's master] plumbs his depths about why a slave behaves as they do,  what they think of the abasement, and whether love could come from this  non-egalitarian relationship. Tristan provides no shocking revelations  really, and the age-old struggle for dominance and power is left as the  answer.  Nicolas then professes his love as Tristan's heart soars, for he,  Tristan needs the discipline to complete himself. This was a rather  difficult read, I can't say I particularly enjoyed it, but it was  interesting on other levels.  As some other reviewers have noted the plot  thins considerably and all we are left with are the power struggles acted  out through sex. Thankfully, things picked up a bit, as noted, towards the  end.  For completeists sake I begin Beauty's final chapter, as she is  kidnapped from the village and taken to the Eastern realms of a Sultan.	2000-06-12
US	50180846	R1HUSVMB6FCHPD	006101351X	637283524	The Perfect Storm: A True Story of Men Against the Sea	Books	4	137	146	N	N	Sleek, Technical, Cold, and a Gripping Story	This book had been languishing on my library shelf for some time and I wanted to get it read before the movie came out, invariably altering its impact. It did not disappoint. It must have been difficult writing a  speculative account of the last few days of 6 men's lives, but Junger does  makes an admirable attempt. Using what direct quotes he can, the story  still comes off as rather detached, which I suppose can't be helped.  The  story chronicles the final journey of the fishing vessel Andrea Gail, as it  returns home on October 1991 hitting one of the worst storms of the century  off the East Coast.  The six crewmembers are adequately fleshed out in  exposition early on, and their stories will intertwine with those of their  searchers and fellow fisherman during their terrifying ordeal. I did find  the numerous technical discussions of weather, sea-faring, rescue ops, etc.  very interesting. Having just finished Isaac's Storm, another death and  destruction by sea/hurricane historical story I was particularly fascinated  and frightened by Junger's clinical and emotionless description of the act  of drowning.  Considering how that description applied to the crew of the  Andrea Gail as well as all those victims in the earlier story, allowed for  moments of morbid personal reflection.  The book really picks up, and is  helped by the factual / eyewitness accounts of the other survivors of the  Halloween Gale.  The latter part of the story dealing with the various  rescues of other foundering ships makes for a quick and intense reading  experience.  It reads like an adventure story, but it is very sobering to  stop and remember that these were real people with families and whose lives  were cut so short.  I can't imagine the upcoming movie will provide the  experience and response the book did, I'm glad I got to it first.  Recommended.	2000-06-04
US	50180846	R1M1IICU2O0ZHB	0609602330	27895627	Isaac's Storm : A Man, a Time, and the Deadliest Hurricane in History	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Mirroring Its Subject, Story Builds Slowly Then Explodes	On the cusp of 1900 while doctors Minor and Murray were working across the pond on the Oxford English Dictionary, in the recently completed novel Professor and the Madman by Simon Winchester, a tropical hurricane of  immense proportions was hurtling unannounced toward Galveston, TX and its  meteorologist, Isaac Cline. I've had great luck so far with turn of the  century historical non-fiction, this is my second novel after The P&amp;tM.  Like all great disaster epics the reader is introduced to a variety of  people whose lives this will alter, and even snuff out.  The beginning  exposition moves slowly, describing the events of the day, as well as  Isaac's childhood, eventual rise through the ranks of the nescient weather  bureau, and ongoing rivalry with his brother. Interspersed with the  background of the major players are pages detailing the birth, development,  and murderous progress of the storm, humanizing it in a way that reminded  me of Peter Benchley's malevolent sharks and squids. Erik Larson does a  commendable job unraveling the politics which lead to the blatant disregard  of the storm warnings in Cuba. Without this information relayed ahead, the  hurricane slams into Galveston full force killing 8000+ citizens.  The  novel really takes off at this point, moving at a speed to match the  flowing current, as the reader bounces back and forth between characters.  Families are decimated, houses collapse, parents see their children slip  away into the sea, refugees struggle through 12+ foot flow. Through all the  devastation and terror the author keeps a menacingly placid tone, he does  not sensationalize.. and it is this almost dispassionate view which lends a  chilling aspect to the death that abounds; it is so frank and curt that it  desensitizes. Once again man pays for his hubris with tragedy. Recommended.	2000-05-19
US	50180846	R3NRTL6ME8JAEQ	0060929510	178905561	Modoc: The True Story of the Greatest Elephant That Ever Lived	Books	5	10	12	N	N	Wonderful Story of Pachyderm Devotion	It's been a while since a book produced the sort of emotive response, upon completion, that Modoc did. The last few chapters were the ones that caught me feeling pain and pathos for the great elephant, and a smiling  appreciation of her love for her trainer. This sweeping epic tells the  story of a boy and his female elephant, inseparable from their dual births  on the same day in turn of the century Germany. Born to the circus, Modoc  and Bram forge a career of adventures as they travel the world experiencing  metaphysical lessons in life and love. These lessons are taught through  their interactions with Bram's two great [human] loves, the bigoted and  megalomaniacal circus owner, ship and circus mates, and Indian leaders,  spiritual and temporal. It is billed as a love story first, adventure  second, and it is plain to see the special, almost supernatural bond the  elephant and the trainer hold as they both age well into their 70's. This  novel gives one pause thinking about our own interactions with animals, and  pets. I chuckled to think of how things would be different if my Siamese  cat were suddenly 10 feet tall and 3 tons. Playtime would take on a  slightly different dynamic. Yet Modoc was always gentle and a constant  lifesaver to Bram, aware of her immense power and always desirous of his  happiness.  It was also interesting to see that the author Ralph Helfer,  was also the same Ralph in the story who found Modoc and employed Bram and  her for the last 20 years of their lives. I'm not sure what the target  audience age was but it proceeds easily and swiftly, and reminded me of the  Black Stallion books I read back in 7th grade. Ultimately a feel-good,  slightly embellished, true story that is recommended reading.	2000-05-08
US	50180846	R1SV0D4IOXSPYJ	1558216898	325390853	The Search for the Giant Squid	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Interesting, But Wish More Info Existed On This Beast	Since childhood I've been intrigued with undiscovered places, animals, and mysteries. It was with a flush of excitement that I saw the giant pink squid complete with hubcap eye staring out at me from the nature bookshelf.  It beckoned to come and read about the search for this elusive creature.  Visions of the medieval woodblock of the Kraken demolishing a ship danced  in my head. I am ashamed to admit that I was indeed hoping for some  Benchley-esque anecdotal stories of fishermen battling against this 60 foot  long monster, but of course that wasn't to be.  Ellis produces a very  scholarly, disciplined, non-tabloid &lt;grin&gt; detective novel,  describing the previous sightings and ultimate resting places for the  carcasses.  Much of the writing is speculative since none of these animals  have been captured or observed in the wild.  The famous mythos of sperm  whale battles at great depths are examined, as are the earliest recorded  wash-ups on shore. It is a pity that more information has not surfaced  about their eating and living patterns. But again, what little information  there is available is presented well, and it becomes clear that Ellis is  quite enamored with this mysterious denizen of the murky depths. I do agree  however with some of the other reviews, that this information could have  been distilled into a serialized article in a nature magazine or similar.  It's rather eerie and actually scary to consider Ellis' description of  these giants, hanging motionless in the dark ocean forever watching with  their unblinking eyes, waiting for the chance to dine. Overall, an  interesting read, which should lead one to perk up their ears if there is  ever a report of one of these beasts being captured or observed in the  wild.	2000-05-01
US	50180846	R2U5UF7IBQVBEO	0156008351	77641626	Shipwrecks (Harvest Book)	Books	4	12	14	N	N	A Chilling Irony Strikes the Heart of a Japanese Village	Languid, beautifully ascetic prose tells the story of a young boy's coming of age in an extremely poor fishing village on the medieval Japanese coastline. Isaku [9] is primed to take over as head of the household after his father sells himself into indentured servitude in a neighboring  village. This wonderfully crafted snapshot of an ancient lifestyle tells of  his slowly developing fishing techniques, his interaction with his mother  and siblings, and his later attempts at wooing a village girl. Surviving  always on the brink of starvation, the village has for centuries employed a  technique of luring and beaching passing ships to supplement their staples.  Once the ships have had their bottoms ripped by the rocks, the villagers  kill the remaining crew and dismantle and disseminate the ship skeleton and  its cargo [rice, wine, sugar, etc.]. One good size `haul' of this type  would last a family many years. Like the reader, Isaku is gradually  introduced to the various methodologies employed in the creation of the  salt fires which lure the ships during stormy nights. The novel spans the  three years of the fathers servitude and presents the unvarying, but  vitally important changes of the season which bring their own seafood type  and technique for capture. This translation's writing matches the  sparseness of the village, presenting itself with the stark beauty of a  crashing Japanese reef. One certainly gets lost in the wonderful  descriptions of this far-away time and place. Conflict arrives at the hind  end of this novel in a whirlwind conclusion, the abrupt finality mirroring  anguish and despondency in the reader as well as Isaku.  A very intriguing  and recommended read.	2000-04-29
US	50180846	R1P963NK1XV23L	0060175966	418849151	The Professor and the Madman	Books	4	7	8	N	N	A Keenly Interesting Story of Mad Obsession and Redemption	Two men labored on a monumental task, in cramped, confinedquarters in the latter part of the 19th century...  Dr. Murray was theeditor of the bourgeoning project which would become known as the Oxford English Dictionary, the other, Dr. Minor, a key contributor to said project.  Eerily similar situations and lifestyles, except the contributor had been incarcerated in an insane asylum for an earlier murder.  This was a very engaging and interesting book, and at times read like a well researched detective novel rather than a non-fiction offering.  The (book) chronicles the death of the sympathetic victim of Dr. Minor, Minor's child hood is juxtaposed w/ that of Dr. Murray, the birth idea of the dictionary, and then the subsequent correspondences between the two as the dictionary is built.  It was interesting to watch as the author portrayed the ever repentant Dr. Minor [later apologizing and financing the widow of the man killed in a manic moment] finding a meaning and possible redemption through his voluminous contributions to the dictionary. Further of interest were the philosophical questions raised about if Dr. Minor had received modern treatments whether he would have been inclined to participate as heavily as he did over the ensuing decades. Overall I learned a great deal about lexicography and dictionary births through this story, it moved swiftly and elegantly in a scholarly voice, and was an enjoyable read. Recommended.  END	2000-04-22
US	50180846	RAY7BK6BNS6PH	0679723110	819309084	Grendel	Books	5	17	20	N	N	The Anti-Hero Struggles Against the Nihilistic Void	Marvelous. Written almost 30 years ago, Grendel by John Gardner has lost none of its nihilistic punch. Exposed to the novel half of those 30 years ago I had to experience it again after reading the critically lauded Seamus  Heaney version of Beowulf. Greeting me once more were meditations on the  dark existential void, religion, politics, and science by a creature, not  too unlike us in our fears and hopes, who continued to strive to make sense  of the universe and his place in it. Alternating between the sublime  Orwellian double-talk of the minstrel Shaper and the cold, condescendingly  bleak philosophy of the Dragon, Grendel struggles for meaning.  Told that  his life and energies exist only for man to define himself against, he  finds small consolation. Still, Grendel throws himself on the mercy of the  men in a Frankenstein's monster effort to be accepted... to no avail,  deciding after that `why should I not' destroy them . At times darkly  humourous, and touching, the creature muses on the beauty of Hrothgar's  placid, sacrificing wife before attempting to kill her, and plays with the  fallen hero Unferth before Beowulf's arrival. As those familiar with the  epic know, Beowulf in the original poem arrives from across the sea to save  Hrothgar's hall by doing battle with Grendel, his mother, and eventually  the Dragon. Grendel senses Beowulf's arrival and marvels at the concept of  fear.  Familiarity with the story makes the inevitability of the conflict  all the more delicious when Grendel finally realizes his purpose and  observes `I cannot believe such monstrous energy of grief would lead to  nothing' the reader is left to answer that it did not lead to nothing, it  was a necessary component in an incredible story, told from the historical  antagonist's point of view.  Highly recommended to be read along with  Beowulf.	2000-04-12
US	50180846	R3PUB6GNR0GK5B	0374111197	481105340	Beowulf: A New Verse Translation	Books	4	13	16	N	N	The Hero Is Defined By And Against His Enemies	The hero is defined by and against his enemies. The 1000 year old epic story of Beowulf, Grendel, its mother, and the Dragon is given new life in this wonderfully frank and straightforward translation. Like many others the last time I had visited Beowulf was about 15 years ago via a somewhat  archaic and convoluted version in high-school.  I was pleased to finally  obtain Mr. Heaney's version, which was sold out at numerous places.  The  age old story moves along briskly as Heaney weaves the plot-line of the  courageous hero sailing across the seas to assist a noble king whose hall  is being terrorized nightly by the malevolent creature Grendel. Beowulf  seems most alive when he's battling the monster, and then the revenge  minded mother of Grendel.  The lull of 50 years is finally broken by one  last conflict for the archetypical hero to steel himself against.  Released  from its guardian slumber by the a servants theft, an ancient dragon  blackens the land in retribution.  Beowulf, now an old man resigns that he  will go out in a figurative and literal blaze of glory.  The two combatants  are joined together in death; linked forever in song and poem in the  memories of the people. The book utilises small descriptive snippets  interspersed w/ the text to give the reader a further clearer idea of what  is going on, similar to annotation.  I found these to be insightful and  helpful in the overall enjoyment of the book.  An excellent read, which  should always be followed by John Gardner's Grendel.  Recommended.	2000-04-03
US	50180846	R1DCM9B5VVOMAG	0446674168	56265932	Lives of the Monster Dogs	Books	5	14	20	N	N	Bizarrely intriguing premise leads to an elegant read	The husky in a dark red smoking jacket standing stoically, w/ hands and a cane caught my eye from the book rack.  What an odd sight, I took it down, reading the back I grew very excited about the premise and carted it home.  What is the fascination that we humans hold about anthropomorphizing  animals, and pets? We long for the further connection to our companions and  meeting them on some sort of common ground. This novel endeavors to explore  that question through the odd dynamic of `monster' dogs who have been  surgically altered in a remote village and arrive in New York in the early  part of 201x. The dogs were bred and engineered as part of a plot by an  19th century scientist to assist the German empire in eventual world  conquest, but the project took a considerably longer time than they  thought.  Part of the century long process was the move to an isolated  locale which never progressed socially beyond the Prussia of the 1800's.   The final completed dogs, walking on two legs, possessing prosthetic limbs,  and voice boxes are sentient; and of course what sentient being wants to be  subjugated.  Throwing off their shackles they make their way to present-day  New York.  From there we meet the heroine Cleo who narrates the book, and  observe her re-defining herself against the backdrop of the dogs'  machinations. She deals alternately w/ Ludwig, their historian, Klaue,  their self-appointed mouthpiece and megalomaniac, and Lydia the tragic love  interest of a good few of the dogs. Cleo is tapped as their human liaison  and bears witness to their slow degeneration at the hands of a mysterious  disease.  Cleo longs to be part of their world, to be with them always,  even as all is falling around her, and the dogs are resigned to accept  their departure in their last great fling.  The dogs are given an air of  mystery and an aloof detachment that prevents delving too deeply into their  characters.  Only until the final few pages when Ludwig begins to write to  Cleo do we see their hopes, dreams, internal strife, and desire to be like  us.  Their presentation and lives come off as so fleeting, w/ only this  small glimpse to help understand.. but as they say, they are after all,  just dogs, and there may be nothing deeper than just that.  This was a very  enjoyable, elegant, philosophical read, which may have suffered had it been  drawn out further.  In the end, its scope was just right.	2000-03-28
US	50180846	R70BV2YB2JF4J	0679888225	599433684	The Official Godzilla Compendium: A 40 Year Retrospective	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Slick, Stylish, Polished Addition for Fans	This fairly slim book certainly lives up to the description of what a compendium is supposed to be: `a brief, complete summary, or abstract'. Glossy stills, plot line summaries, brief reviews [favorable of course],  color plates, and the great poster art for each film are presented in this  Godzilla overview. With the recent release of some of the Heisei [second]  series on DVD I've been indulging this guilty pleasure and started getting  back into Gojira after having seen his films and being a fan through my  childhood.  It was such a pleasure to visit the Heisei series after the  American version debacle.  This books gave me a nice update on what to  expect from the updated series. The guest essays appear to be filler, but  they're humourous; Godzilla as a dinosaur, and parenting techniques via  Godzilla [honey, you blow smoke rings, you'll get your tail stepped on].   Next up is the more in depth study, `Monsters are Attacking Tokyo', and the  Best of Godzilla soundtracks. &lt;grin&gt; How many books can you read that  bring a nostalgic smile to your face, remembering these films from your  childhood, and allow you to look forward to seeing ones that still haven't  been released on DVD or in the US originally. Recommended to new and old  fans.	2000-02-24
US	50180846	RY1SOJJFPDFDF	0922915474	589732184	Monsters Are Attacking Tokyo!: The Incredible World of Japanese Fantasy Films	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Excellent &amp; informative chronicle of the rise of kaiju eiga	Beginning 25 years when I was 5, like many others I was exposed to these wonderful films via 4 o'clock movies or late night creature features.  They gave pleasure then as now looking back on them. Most of the explanatory  works I later searched for on these movies were limited to Japanese  language fan compendiums. I was thrilled when I saw this and the Godzilla  Compendium online, and purchased them immediately.  Divided into sections  of intros, interviews, plot synopses, primary people involved this read  like a scholarly dissertation on the unlikely subject of the monster /  fantasy genre of Japan.  I enjoyed the interviews the most, especially the  overwhelming sense of humour that pervaded the discussions as these actors,  directors, and producers chatted about the camaraderie and stories of  working together.  I was also very pleased to read that Kumi Mizuno [the  sultry and beguiling Maemi `everybody wants me'] enjoyed Attack of the  Mushroom People so much, as it along w/ Destroy All Monsters is a favorite  of mine. After reading the interviews, and the evenness that the questions  were posed, it was sort of a shift of gears to read the reviews, which were  often not very complimentary and sometimes scathing.  I found it  interesting to see the other production houses besides Toho discussed, as  well as the other genres that the actors and directors dealt with.  A  welcome addition to the collection of Japanese fantasy film lovers.  Recommended.	2000-02-20
US	50180846	RS7WTGY0C415H	038529929X	313045692	Hannibal: A Novel	Books	4	2	3	N	N	On the slippery slope of the bizarre	It was with great anticipation that I poured through Hannibal when it came out. Quite a page turner, the further exploits of the doctor take precedence over the secondary agent Starling for much of the novel.  Mason,  while repugnant does not provide a suitable foe for the good doctor.  The  doctor's culture and genius are given free reign and explored passably  within the setting of Italy. Harris obviously was taken w/ the locale.  Painted as an almost sympathetic figure, the reader is apparently  encouraged to sublimate his brutality towards non-combatants in earlier  novels.  His insanity is also downplayed as we are given a glimpse into his  inner dialogue which to him is perfectly sane and modulated. That was a bit  different from the earlier novels and could throw people in that we, as  readers, are brought into his world and spheres of understanding.  The  bizarre is mundane, the insane, sane.  Agent Starling eventually re-enters  the scene and, perhaps too quickly for some, in the end, is swept up in the  whirlwind of Hannibal's delights.  I had to digest the ending for a while  after finishing the book.  However in time it became clearer, that this was  the ultimate bizarre ending to the journey started.  More meandering and  verbose than the earlier novels, I still enjoyed it and would recommend it.	2000-02-03
US	50180846	R22XC25S5Q9QTV	0684853949	358452686	The Man Who Mistook His Wife For A Hat: And Other Clinical Tales	Books	4	13	14	N	N	Very interesting clinical studies	This is an astonishing book, it chronicles the various, notable, cases treated by Dr. Sacks. People who had deficiencies in perception or over compensation in senses are presented w/ taste and humanity and never  reduced to objects. The case studies while clinical are presented in a  compassionate narrative that makes it accessible to the lay person.  Questions of personal identity always interested me during my philosophy  classes and a few of these cases actually provide firm factual bases for  the theories postulated. In the chapters he touches on people who become no  longer aware of their physical attributes or presence, people who lose  their memories after 10 minute spans, making up reality as they go along,  and people who suffer amnesia of a type where they are unable to progress  beyond a certain date in time, thinking it's the 1940's. Towards the end he  touches on autists, those with hyper-abilities with numbers, or art, yet  are unable often to talk or express themselves otherwise. I highly  recommend this book, and wish it would have been in the curriculum for some  of my philosophy of mind classes. I will be reading more of Dr. Sack's  works.	2000-01-26
US	50180846	RK2L87Y05X2EA	0140071083	514925319	The Haunting of Hill House	Books	3	5	17	N	N	Sadly, uninteresting and bland.	I leaned back and thought about this novel after I had finished.  What didn't sit well? What was the impact upon completion?  There was none, I was indifferent about it and the character outcomes. Prompting this  realization was the overall feeling of blandness in the writing.  The novel  ends rather abruptly, anti-climactically for the slow build up that  preceded it.  Perhaps the times are dating this 1950's story, but I don't  think that's it.  It was quite banal, both in terms of character  development and descriptions of the plot elements.  In brief synopsis, four  people from various backgrounds converge on a 'haunted' mansion to spend a  few days noting any disturbances. The disturbances themselves are not even  portrayed w/ a sense of urgency.  One of the party succumbs to madness  within its walls.  But none of the characters are sufficiently explored.  Even Eleanor herself is not given ample space and time to allow us to  believe that she is spiraling... and is she even spiraling? The wife of the  doctor, and Arthur added in the last few chapters, do nothing to enhance  the story and appear mainly for humour and exposition through planchette,  of the prior occupants torment.  Which is further, never drawn out. This  was a very subtle novel; unfortunately, to the point of being  uninteresting.	2000-01-25
US	50180846	R443EW36I77EW	0679781501	773489309	The Insult	Books	4	3	5	N	N	Subdued, dark character study in a damaged family history	Martin Blom, victim of a random shooting, is rendered blind. As the story unwinds he finds he can see but only at night or in the dark.  He begins to  create a life around this odd existence.  Moving slowly, narrating the  story in 1st person, we are allowed to casually observe his meanderings and  his eventual settling at a dingy hotel/brothel. Add to this neo-noir mix  the beautiful mystery woman Nina, and her mildly twisted craving for Martin  in his blindness.  The later abrupt disappearance of Nina, coupled w/  suggested furtive movements by his ex-doctor, prompt Martin to head to  remote locales in search of a family history which may explain Nina's  whereabouts.  The second part of the novel is the wistful recounting of  Nina's grandmother's difficult life and how it eventually ties to Nina and  threatens Blom himself.  The style of narrative at the half-way point  shifts to the grandmother, and it almost sounds like a different author.  I  found the story to be a similarly winding, round-about sort of mystery as  Asylum by P. McGrath.  The last hundred-plus pages were consumed in one  sitting, as things began to rapidly unfold, I realized that Martin's story  was now effectively secondary to the tragedy described by the grandmother.  The tone and tragedy in this novel were subtle, and subdued.  It did not  produce a strong emotive response during the reading, one does not cheer  for Martin, or feel for him in any way.  He's a bit of an anti-hero, in the  narrator vein of Poe's work.  Every character here is broken in a way,  which leads to a dulling moroseness in their interactions, which we watch  in a detached clinical manner.  Still, I found it an interesting work, to  be read, if possible, on a rainy, grey day.	1999-09-01
US	50180846	R32QPRCQE0ZKED	0679781382	999618850	Asylum	Books	4	14	16	N	N	subtle, clinical, madness that slowly builds	I like the idea of the gothic thriller: dank, roaming vistas, be they an insane asylum or windswept North Wales landscapes, coupled w/ depressed, furtive movements by the main players.  Asylum seemed to hold that promise when I saw it.  This is my first McGrath book, but won't be the last.  The narrative was taut and controlled, but also interestingly languid, one could sense the mental disintegration and exhaustion on all players as the story wore on and slowly rose to its crescendo.  I caught myself thinking of Poe's \\"the Fall of the House of Usher\\" a couple times later in the story as the landscapes were described [black pools of water, barren landscapes] and the characters inner turmoil prodded their own heightened sense of self-awareness to come bubbling up.  Considering the fact that most of the characters are either psychiatrists, or immediately influenced by them [wives, patients] one can see where they would have the vocabulary and insight to adequately describe their mania.  Make no mistake, this is Stella's story.  The madman Edgar Stark is along for the ride, but isn't fleshed out to make him a star ala Hannibal [the current read].  I enjoyed this book and would recommend it for those seeking a subtle, sublime entry into this genre.	1999-06-12
