US	50184762	R30WIBMW3BCE5C	0140134298	814841279	Swann	Books	4	21	24	N	N	Magic flows from her pen ...	It comes as quite a shock at the beginning of the fifth chapter of \\"Swann\\" to be reminded that Sarah Maloney, Morton Jimroy, Rose Hindmarch and Frederick Cuzzi area all fictional characters.  By that time, having read each of their brushes with Mary Swann (who is also fictitious) and her poetry, you feel that you'd recognize them in a crowd.<br />In this early novel, Carol Shields shows the talent developed in later works, especially her penchant for using disparate literary styles to tell the story.  Her characters are so beautifully formed; they leap from the page and demand you get to know them.  Locations are so vividly described, you feel you could immediately find them, should you be transported to Chicago, Palo Alto, Nardeau or Kingston.<br />In 1965, within hours of submitting her body of work, written on scraps of paper and stored in a paper bag, to literary publisher and newspaper owner, Frederick Cruzzi, Mary Swann, a \\"primitive\\" poet from rural Canada, was hacked to pieces by her violent brute of a husband.  The 125 poems were subsequently published in a small, stapled pamphlet with a limited run of 250 copies, most of which Cruzzi and his wife ended up giving away.<br />Many years after publication, Sarah Maloney, a feminist scholar of some note, found a copy in the limited selection or reading material in a remote cottage on a lake in Wisconsin, where she'd gone to have a good long, hard think about her life.  Intrigued, she set out to find out more about Swann and her poetry, and soon was in correspondence with a select little group of assorted fans and scholars, including pretentious Morton Jimroy, self-appointed biographer, spinsterly Rose Hindmarch, librarian who lent books to Swann, worldwise Frederick Cuzzi, publisher to whom Swann entrusted her work.<br />The present time of the book is 1987, and the first ever Swann Symposium is about to take place.  Strange things start happening with Swann memorabilia - Sarah's copy of \\"Swann's Songs\\" can't be found; Cruzzi's house is burgled and the only things missing are the four copies of the pamphlet he'd retained; one of the two known photographs of Mary Swann goes missing from the Nardeau library.<br />In this fascinating tale, it's intriguing how the threads of Mary Swann's life slowly pull together, even as she seems to be disappearing forever and how the works of an extremely little known poet, dead for more than 20 years, cause such bitter rivalries, jealousies and criminal behaviour.  But even as she becomes more ephemeral, her effect on her admirers becomes more profound.  <br />The first four chapters, almost novellas, of this book titled \\"Mary Swan\\" in the British edition I found in my library, each tell of a central character's encounter with Swann and/or her work.  The Swan Symposium, the final chapter, is written as a play, which I thought at first was a little precious.  Then I realised that since it all took place in a hotel and was mostly dialogue anyway, what better way of expressing it.  Readers are spared all the words normally used to pad dialogue out into sentences.  \\"Bit part\\" players are given beautifully descriptive names like Butter Mouth, Merry Eyes, Silver Cufflinks, Woman with Turban, Woman in Pale Suede Boots, Wistful Demeanour and Crinkled Forehead - that's all you need to picture them.<br />\\"Swann\\" has been described as a \\"literary mystery\\" but it's not a traditional mystery with a detective following up clues - in fact, I think to categorise it as a mystery is to sell this rich and intriguing work short.  If you want to categorise it at all, it's a beautifully subtle satire aimed at the pretentiousness found in the literary world.  If any of Ms Shields' novels were worthy of a Pulitzer Prize, this is the one.<br />I've read several of Carol Shields works and, with the exception of \\"Stone Diaries\\", each has usurped the last as my favourite.  This is a little worrying, since I've been working my way backwards through the list.  I guessI'll have to stop now.	2001-02-25
US	50184762	R1KR7YUNWTZSN3	038080297X	869501234	Avalon: The Return of King Arthur	Books	1	5	7	N	N	What was he thinking?????	I've stated before that I love novels based on the Arthurian legend, and enjoyed Stephen Lawhead's previous five novels in The Pendragon Cycle - \\"Taliesin\\", \\"Merlin\\", \\"Arthur\\", \\"Pendragon\\" and \\"Grail\\" - immensely.  What a pity he didn't know when to stop.<br />Anyone with even a passing familiarity with the Arthurian legend knows that Arthur is expected to return in Britain's greatest hour of need.  One would have thought there have been plenty of opportunities for him to put in an appearance in the last 1500 years, so he must be waiting for the really BIG need - this wasn't it.<br />In \\"Avalon\\", the republican Prime Minister, determined to be the first President of Britain, had managed to push through four referendums on the way to dissolving the monarchy.  Everyone known to be in line for the throne had already signed away any claim and when Edward the Ninth, the last of an ever-increasingly dissolute and debauched line, suicided in his Portugese retreat, the monarchy seemed doomed.  Only one final referendum remained to make the dissolution permanent.  The Prime Minister's best-laid plans seemed complete.  Of course, he reckoned without the mysterious and ageless M(erlin) Embries.  James Arthur Stuart, a young ex-soldier living in the Scottish highlands, suddenly discovers his hidden parentage, becomes heir to the large (and amazingly wealthy) estate on which the person he knew as his father worked, and then finds he not only has a legitimate claim to the throne, but that he is Arthur, reborn.  This silly, contrived constitutional crisis is what Arthur has been waiting all those years for? I don't think so!!<br />Compared to Lawhead's other works, this novel is appalling, but it would have been bad, whoever wrote it.  The characters are hardly even one-dimensional, the dialogue is unspeakable and the story is thin and totally improbable, given it's present day setting.  The style of writing is stilted and flat, nothing seems to flow and draw the reader in.  It just seems to be a series of statements, interspersed with dialogue that no person, modern or ancient, would utter.  Once I started hating things, I just found more to hate on each page.  When fantasy and modern times co-exist in a novel, it usually only succeeds when the modern-day person is taken into the fantasy milieu.  In this novel, a fantasy figure is reborn into a Britain resplendent with Jaguar cars, remote control TVs, skinheads and pit-bull terriers; it just can't work.  The scene with James in unarmed combat against pipe and chain wielding gangs of skinheads while 4,000 people stand around gawping and the police fall over themselves was just plain ridiculous. Prime Minister Thomas Waring is a character so badly developed and absurd that one can hardly imagine he was created by the same author responsible for the wonderful characters populating the previous novels in this cycle.  The man-who-would-be-king inherits what must be the only solvent estate in Britain (with all it's treasure) and even has a girlfriend named Jennifer, for goodness sake.  She just happens to be a potter, which seemed to me a contrived occupation until the reason was revealed in the final, incredibly silly showdown with the reborn (you guessed it!) Morgain, another badly drawn and poorly used character.<br />Anyone is allowed one bad novel, but I find it almost impossible to belive that someone who could write &quot;Taliesin&quot;, &quot;Byzantium&quot; and &quot;The Endless Knot&quot; was capable of writing something so bad. If this was the first thing I'd read by Stephen Lawhead, it would have been the last, but even though the time taken to wade through this mess was wasted, I've spent many enjoyable hours immersed in the worlds he's created.  So long as he keeps at least a millennium between me and his stories, I'll continue to give them the benefit of the doubt (in fact, I just borrowed \\"The Iron Lance\\" from the library today).  <br />I've only awarded one star in order to savethis review.	2001-02-02
US	50184762	R2KWYCMCIOD8A0	055356451X	636592968	Night Sins (Deer Lake)	Books	2	6	7	N	N	And the Sinner is ......	My friend, Sue, has been recommending Tami Hoag for years and I recently picked up &quot;Night Sins&quot;.<br />Let me say, my environment and that in the novel could hardly be more different.  In Australia, January is mid-summer, and Adelaide has just endured two January heatwaves (the average temperature for January was 101 degrees, up to 112 one day!) and we have just entered our third heatwave of the summer.  And there I was, reading a story set in the Minnesotan winter month of January, with a windchill factor of minus 62 degrees.  I cannot imagine such cold!  We start whining when the thermometer drops to the (plus) 60's!<br />I found this novel impossible to put down.  I don't know why, because when put under my reviewing microscope, I found plenty of things to criticise.<br />&quot;Night Sins&quot; is a bodice ripper, disguised as a thriller - the crime is just incidental to the \\"romance\\".  Megan's bodice starts heaving and Mitch's pants start getting too tight (well, they would have, had he been wearing some) the moment they lock eyes.  How professional is that?  For someone with all her rules, she got her knickers off pretty quickly, not that she had much of a chance with Mitch's unrelenting persistence.  They spend so much of the novel having little spats and then making up, the other characters are justified in their derision (if not in the way they go about it).  I was not surprised to find Ms Hoag started out as a romance writer.  She hasn't moved on - had Mitch been an 18th century pirate or highwayman and Megan a damsel, the sex would have been the same.  This book almost needs a plain, brown wrapper!  Or Fabio in an unzipped parka on the cover (not the unexplained empty sneaker on the copy I read) - at least that would have issued some sort of warning about the contents.<br />Okay, being a woman in the male bastion of law enforcement is difficult, frustrating, etc.  After being told that every ten or so pages, I think we get it.  <br />Why do all these lead characters (and that includes the parents) have to be dysfunctional?  Oh, for just one normal, well-adjusted human being with scruples - none here, I'm afraid.  Maybe Natalie, but her part was really small.<br />For someone who had a migraine, the beginnings of one, or the aftermath of one, during the entire story, Megan and her medicine cabinet purse managed to rise through the ranks of the BCA pretty sensationally.  The last thing I'd expect anyone to want during a migraine is sex, even with a Harrison Ford look-alike (right down to the scar on the chin - puh-leese).  After all Ms Hoag's casting advice, I'm wondering who they got to play the role in the mini-series - not Ford, I'm guessing.<br />Metaphors are useful literary devices.  That does not mean every sentence needs one.  Many of them were quite clever, but the sheer number of them had me groaning.<br />How long would a TV reporter like Paige Price, or a Sheriff like Steiger, last in the real world?  Don't both professions have codes of conduct, and people they report to?  They were SO ridiculously, laughably bad.<br />Somehow, it was practically impossible to have any sympathy for the parents of the abducted boy.  The father was such a rat, and the mother such a saint, I just wanted to bang their heads together.  And when the mother's bodice started heaving for the priest, and his trousers started swelling, well ... you know where this is going.<br />The best (and worst) part of this book is the weather - best because it's well written and so extreme (to me, anyway) as to be interesting, and worst, because without it, the novel would mercifully have been at least 200 pages shorter.<br />After 540 pages, you still have no idea of why the baddie did it, who he's in league with, where the kid was, what happened to him, or anything.  Oh yeah, you find out at the \\"end\\" that this is a two-parter and you're expected to wade through another 500 pages or so of clichés, metaphors, stereotyped characters and steamy sex to find out.  And all the copies of \\"Guilty as Sin\\" at my libraries (I'm not buying this rubbish!) are out on loan - dammit!	2001-02-02
US	50184762	R1KMGFAPZA22NS	0140149902	937751577	The Republic of Love	Books	4	25	25	N	N	Romantics - take heart!	\\"As a baby, Tom Avery had twenty-seven mothers.  So he says.  That was almost forty years ago.\\"  As opening paragraphs go, if this one doesn't make you want to read on, then nothing will.  I started reading this in bed one Sunday morning and didn't get up until it was finished.<br />Fay McLeod wakes up one morning knowing she no longer loves the man in the bed beside her, with whom she has lived for five years.  Truth be known, he no longer loves her, either; their relationship had just slipped into complacency and joint commitments.  But alone, she finds she really is just one half of an incomplete couple.  Where does one find love?  How does one remain in love?  After all, as the title suggests, it's everyone's right to experience love.<br />Fay is close to her family; her parents, brother, his family, and her sister.  She has many friends, mainly through her absorbing work as a folklorist with a special interest in mermaids.  Her work links her to the past, and to fantasy - could she be using that to escape reality?<br />Before reaching forty, Tom Avery has been divorced three times.  He hadn't chosen partners very wisely, but at least he's remained friendly with two of his ex-wives and they are part of his extensive social circle.  Without actually vowing to never marry again, he knows he isn't good marriage material, and spends most Friday nights attending singles meetings, supposedly to learn new skills, but in reality to check out availability of potential partners. He also concentrates his energies on friends, associates and his work as the popular host of a midnight to dawn radio program.<br />Considering his circle, and Fay's circle contained so many people in common, it was surprising they'd never met.  However, a chance encounter at the birthday party of Fay's nephew where he'd come to collect his godson and she'd come to deliver a present on the eve of a European study tour, leads to a strong mutual attraction.  So strong, that after only a walk home (they lived across the street from each other) in the company of an eight year old boy, Tom tracks down her address in Europe and professes his love, a madly passionate airletter posted before allowing himself to think better of it.<br />What is love?  In this book, Carole Shields has used none of the artifice apparent in later novels; it's just a beautifully written exploration of love, finding it, keeping it, regaining it and allowing yourself to yield to it.  Around Tom and Fay, finely developed secondary characters go though their own love crises - the path of love is hardly ever smooth.  It is a hopeful, heart-warming and satisfying novel.  Plus you find out quite a lot about Winnepeg, mermaids and late-night radio.<br />Several years ago, an elderly friend recommended Carol Shields.  Recently I started with \\"Larry's Party\\", which announced it was by the author of \\"The Stone Diaries\\", which in turn proclaimed to be by the author of \\"The Republic of Love\\".  Since these books seem to be their own best recommendations, I'm now going to take the advice of \\"The Republic of Love\\" and look even further back into her list for \\"Swann\\" and \\"The Orange Fish\\".	2001-01-14
US	50184762	R88IO5CMKGR6Z	014023313X	619669899	The Stone Diaries	Books	2	3	6	N	N	All the warmth of a rock, strange style, but well written	The first book I read by Carol Shields was \\"Larry's Party\\" which announced it was by the author of \\"The Stone Diaries\\", so I set off to hunt that book down, especially when I learned it was a Pulitzer Prize winner.  I eventually located a Large Print edition, so don't know if the problems I had with this book were due to the discomfort a normally sighted person has in reading Large Print, or with the way the story was written.  I suspect it was the latter.  <br />I remember reading in \\"how to write\\" books that you must choose your viewpoint and stick to it.  Carol Shields bravely decided to flout that advice and instead changed her viewpoint from first to third person with dizzying abandon, making me realise the \\"how to\\" people are probably right.  From the opening scene of Daisy Stone Goodwill's birth being told in the first person by the neonate, (how could she possibly know what her mother went through, since the mother died in unassisted childbirth?) I knew reading this book would present a challenge.  Was I willing to accept it?  Well, based on its prize-winning reception and my enjoyment of \\"Larry's Party\\", I pushed on.  <br />This book is the tale of Daisy Goodwill's life - from her unusual and unfortunate birth, through her adolescence, marriage, motherhood and old age.  I'm not sure if she is a real person - the copy of the book I read contained many photographs of various people, purported to be children, grandchildren, friends, her parents, husband, etc., but none were of Daisy.  It was full of information about masonry, letters, lists, recipes, and from her career as a gardening columnist, lots of gardening advice, but somehow, for me it lacked substance.  I came out of it thinking, Okay, this woman had an eventful entry into the world, had a nice little family and had an interesting time with her gardening ... so?  I might have been more satisfied had it claimed to be a biography (or autobiography), but a novel?  Or maybe I completely missed the point.What did the Pulitzer Prize judges see that I missed?<br />However, above all this is Carol Shield's beautifully descriptive writing, whatever the viewpoint, and that counts for much.  And for the fact that my copy of the book announced it was by the author of \\"The Republic of Love\\".  A much more satisfying book.<br />I would give this 5 out of 10, but can only give it 2 out of 5.	2001-01-14
US	50184762	R6A34X6G5KC7U	0340579838	191154718	We All Live in a House Called Innocence	Books	4	6	6	N	N	James gets a life!	James Morrison (never Jim, because that was already taken) is in a rut.  Approaching thirty, with a routine and unchallenging job as a librarian, he's meandering along in a predictable and passionless long-term relationship. He's tall, skinny, uninspired and uninspiring and he knows it.<br />James' routine explodes with a burst of \\"Wild Thing\\", the old Troggs number, loudly sung in the library.  When James tracks the singing to the source, he meets Tad, seemingly an unlikely catalyst for change.  Wheelchair bound, a victim of osteogenesis imperfecta, Tad insists on living his life to the fullest potential possible, and determines to force James to take a good, hard look at himself and his life.<br />Originally published in 1992, this book is set in London, England at the end of the 1980s.  Tad lives in a sheltered house for people with various disabilities, strangely named Innocence.  He actually attributed the name by winning a residents' naming competition, paying homage (too obscurely for me) to D.H. Lawrence.  The book's title, therefore, none-too-subtly conveys that we are all crippled in some way, if not physically, then almost certainly emotionally.<br />James, who realises he has no friends, accepts Tad's friendship with surprising, confronting and challenging results.  Inviting Tad to dinner at his flat proves disastrous, since he lives upstairs (no lift) and his live-in girlfriend, Ruth, has furnished the place with designer, but wheelchair unfriendly, objects and has cooked very unfriendly food.  Prompted by a conversation with Tad, who earlier revealed himself as a writer of sexy articles for homosexual pornographic magazines, James attempts to live out one of his sexual fantasies, with totally unexpected results.  Ruth takes to the fantasy with much more abandon than James, who finds he's in reality quite unadventurous and almost prudish.  However, the inevitable separation from Ruth forces him to re-evaluate his life, his needs, desires and goals, andto move on.  <br />This book is charming, witty and sexy.  The characters are beautifully drawn and deliciously developed.  Without becoming hamstrung by the whole &quot;political correctness&quot; thing, disabilities are handled in a thoughtful, but self deprecating way. Tad is wryly amused by his situation, and really considers James to be the disabled one.<br />If you can find it, give it a read.  I've also read &quot;Twenty Twenty&quot; by Nigel Watts, a more recent book which doesn't appear on this site, but which prompted me to look for more by this author.	2001-01-14
US	50184762	RAVEK3PSKFDU4	0345413873	625404653	Monster (An Alex Delaware Novel)	Books	3	3	5	N	N	Is a monster born or made?	Alex Delaware returns .... again.  In this novel, Alex's best friend, LA cop Milo Sturgis, requests his company on a visit to the facility housing some of the state's criminally insane while investigating the macabre death of a resident psychologist.  Before long, they get caught up in a bizarre web of family secrets, revenge and deeply psychotic behaviour, culminating in the \\"life or death\\" scene we expect from Jonathan Kellerman.<br />Unlike a lot of reviewers, I was grateful for the small amount of character development achieved in this novel.  Maybe that's because Kellerman is now writing for a particular audience of Delaware fans, and can assume familiarity with his characters.  For the first time I can remember, Milo's sexual preferences were implied rather than proselytised and Alex and Robin's relationship seems to have settled into a comfort zone, thank goodness.  Her work as a luthier was interesting at first, but I don't need in-depth descriptions in every novel - there was just enough in this one to show she's an independent gal.  After all, these novels are supposed to be thrillers, not guitar making manuals, whatever the author's personal interest.  And, thankfully, the house is finished, so we are done with endless building details.<br />Some reviewers say \\"Monster\\" forms a departure from the child psychology more usual in Kellerman's Delaware novels, but just consider when most of the victims/suspects suffered the trauma that lead to their adult behaviour.<br />I don't know how many police forces would grant a civilian, albeit an occasional consultant, as much investigational liberty as Delaware enjoys with the LAPD - they seem to be better served by a psychologist than trained officers.  Happily for them, Delaware set off on the right trail almost immediately, while Milo first pursued the obligatory red herrings and chased the wild geese.  I'm no rocket scientist, but I had the &quot;monster&quot; pegged pretty early on.<br />I once collected Kellerman novels (both J &amp; F), but after the awful &quot;The Web&quot;, happily donated them to my local library some years ago.  I bought this one as part of a selection (give Delaware one more try, I thought) to gain bonus shopping points at a city department store and read it in one day just over a week ago - I've almost forgotten it already.  Either I'm losing my taste for this kind of thriller (I hope not), or Kellerman is losing his edge.<br />Still, even a journeyman Kellerman novel is usually better than the average thriller, though I'm probably biased since I'm a bit of a fan of Milo and Alex, and enjoyed seeing what these familiar characters were up to.  And it was great to see Kellerman return to this milieu after the extremely ordinary \\"Billy Straight&quot;.<br />If you need something that will keep you turning the pages on a long flight or for holiday or vacation reading, you could do a lot worse.	2000-12-31
US	50184762	R2Y2EFSK8CU65S	0060197005	832267718	Stonehenge: 2000 B.C.--A Novel	Books	4	3	4	N	N	It certainly wasn't built in a day!	I've long been fascinated by Stonehenge.  Many people think the Druids built it for their rituals and celestial observations, but it's now widely accepted that Stonehenge far pre-dates Druids, and was probably built by Neolithic people.  It's a remarkable feat of engineering on any scale, but that's not what I find most intriguing.  I've always wondered *why* it was built, and more particularly, why so many huge bluestone rocks were transported more than 135 miles (as the crow flies) from the Preseli Mountains in Wales, the only place where that kind of rock occurs in the British Isles, to Salisbury Plain.  If they just wanted to build a \\"machine\\" to take astrological sightings, you'd have thought it would have been far easier to use reasonably local rocks, such as those used for the giant Sarcen stones, for the entire structure.  The Neolithic builders, however, chose to undertake the extraordinary task of transporting this unique bluestone, either by an incredibly difficult sea and river voyage, or (less likely) by a seemingly impossible land route.  Why?  There had to be some overwhelmingly good reason, but none I have heard so far have seemed powerful enough.  How did they get to know about that bluestone, anyway? Package holiday to Wales, perhaps?<br />In \\"Stonehenge\\", Bernard Cornwell put forward a powerful enough reason so that I could believe human beings would undertake this endeavour.  Although the actual religious rituals the people of this age obeyed are not recorded, there is evidence that human sacrifice was practiced.  That points to a pretty powerful and demanding religious system and history continues to show that those running religious systems are always the most power hungry.  The best way they could think of to gain and retain their power was to make the gods stop the desperately cold winters, thus halting the resultant famines, etc.  And that called for increasingly more powerful rituals.<br />A man who stole his tribe's golden religious artefacts travelled far in an attempt to consult an ancient mystic, but instead was killed by one of the three sons of the leader of a tribe resident in the area now known as Salisbury Plain.  The artefacts were added to the hoard of that leader, and some were used to purchase stone from a nearby tribe for modest temple improvements.  The original holders of the artefacts, who just happened to come from a region near the Preseli Mountains, tracked them down but the new holders requested something in return for them - one of their temples.  And in their desperation for the return of their treasure, the Welsh tribe agreed.<br />Of course, simply transporting the stones and re-erecting the temple would be far too easy.  Around this framework, Cornwell weaves a story of murder, jealousy, revenge, ferocious and bloody battles, bizarre and superstitious religious rituals, insanity, brutality, mysticism, and everything else you could want from a thriller.  His talent for characterisation makes you almost cheer out loud for the goodies and hiss at the baddies, even while you realise you are being fed standard thriller fare.  The story centres on the three brothers, and you can guess there is a too-good-to-be-true hero, an out-and-out baddie and one that is turned by circumstances into an insane despot.<br />I'm not generally a fan of war books, so of Cornwell's huge list of books, the only ones I've read (and thoroughly enjoyed, let me say) were Cornwell's three-book re-telling of the Arthurian legend, \\"The Warlord Chronicles\\" (I even reviewed the third, \\"Excalibur\\") and found the same well-researched, dramatic and realistic style I enjoyed in those books continued in \\"Stonehenge\\".  Of course, the standard thriller population of incredibly handsome/beautiful, extraordinarily accomplished at an unbelievably young age, heroes and heroines live in this tale, only these aren't rich, and mostly they're not terribly clean, either. Cornwell skilfully puts them into an environment whereyou can almost see, smell, taste, hear and feel all their experiences.  You can understand their motivations, admire their endeavour and appreciate their efforts.  Perhaps the characters are not as refined as those in &quot;The Warlord Chronicles&quot;, but I'm quite happy to accept the Neoliths lived in an extremely brutal time, and Arthur .... well, it's fantasy, isn't it.  However, while realizing it was pivotal, I did find the constant religious stuff dragged on, and I was quite happy not to read another battle scene by the time I got to the end.<br />I've seen plenty of documentaries and read many books where the so-called experts put forward their ideas of the wheres and whys that lead to the building of this extraordinary, enigmatic erection.  While Cornwell hasn't really come up with any new ideas, he's just dramatically presented them in a realistic and believable way.<br />If Stonehenge wasn't created in this way, well ... until someone comes up with a better explanation, I'm sticking with this.	2000-12-31
US	50184762	R2LFN1K1LGGO5E	0754004953	646573687	Falling	Books	3	10	12	N	N	Beware of charming old men	I haven't heard the tapes, but I've read the book.  I couldn't find a listing for the book, so I'm putting my review here.<br />I can just imagine those fine actors, Alan Bates and Dianna Quick giving these characters voice - Bates, especially, is perfect casting.<br />Henry is in his 60s, without financial means, and caretaking a small houseboat on one of England's canals.  He sees himself as handsome, charming and sexually gifted - a real ladies man.  He thinks he knows what women want and does his best to give it to them, but on the wrong side of 60 and with little money, his opportunities are limited.  Without a partner, and burnt by experiences from lonely hearts columns, he refuses to give up, and sets his requirements down on paper.  However, on a walk to the village for provisions, he notices a local cottage has been bought by a reasonably attractive woman of mature years with, most importantly, obvious signs of money.  Successfully offering his services as a gardener, then caretaker of the cottage when Daisy's work takes her to America for some months, he immediately begins planning a strategy to make Daisy's money his.  He rearranges his life story in a way that he thinks will make Daisy sympathetic to him, and slowly, relentlessly inveigles her into his web of deceit and lies.<br />Written in alternate chapters from both Henry's and Daisy's viewpoint, we read of him setting his bait, then her unknowingly taking it, then his derision of her neediness.  We find out about Henry's past, or rather, the past he prefers to remember.  We find out about Daisy, her two failed marriages, her estrangement from her daughter and her unexpected success as a playwright.<br />Despite being badly let down by two husbands, Daisy allows herself to be drawn in by what she sees as his selflessness, caring, admiration, and sexual prowess, not realising that it's all a calculated act.  But fortunately for her, she's not without friends, and even though Henry eventually has her in his thrall, they are not so easily deceived.<br />I almost put this book down several times.  I had a sour taste in my mouth most of the time I was reading - I felt something nasty was going to happen and I wasn't sure I wanted to know about it.  It didn't quite happen that way, due to the intervention of people who really loved Daisy, but this could so easily be the story of many people looking for love.  Beware of con-men with good stories, listen to your friends, and trust your initial instincts - all advice Daisy could have used.	2000-12-19
US	50184762	R73O7AN72L7QG	0812533313	787762089	The Worthing Saga	Books	4	25	26	N	N	Entry level SF	This popped up on the &quot;Page you made&quot; box a few minutes ago, and I just had to stop and write something about it.  The Worthing Saga was among the earliest of Orson Scott Card's books I read and I remember it fondly.  Together with Ender's Game and Treason, it made me realise this writer had something to say that I wanted to read. <br />Many people I know dismiss science fiction as a genre - I guess they've been scared off by some representations of aliens and robots and stuff.  They don't realise what a wide range of work falls into this category, and even though I have become a SF fan over the past 20 years or so, there is a lot of stuff in the genre that doesn't interest me.  But there is no other form of fiction that sets my mind working the way SF does, and I will never stop trying to get people to experience that for themselves. <br />Because I want people to read something that opens up their minds to possibility (without scaring them off) and want to share Card's writing, I recommend this book without mentioning anything about SF.  After the initial shock of finding they've been tricked into reading SF, they usually realise they're reading a wonderful story, intelligently and skilfully told by one of our time's great storytellers.  Somehow, people who have no problem reading fiction about people pioneering the vast, unexplored spaces of America, Australia, or any other earth-bound place, seem to have a problem reading of space pioneers.  That's why I call this &quot;entry level SF&quot; - basically, this story is not so dissimilar from many of those stories of pioneers; the trials, tribulations and perseverence of the characters differ only in the technical details.  However, this story has the good fortune of being told by Orson Scott Card, a writer who manages to make me feel I have only gained from seeing life from his viewpoint.	2000-12-19
US	50184762	R1W6B6XZC28XB4	0312206488	80867101	Excalibur (The Warlord Chronicles)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	The Arthurian legend hasn't been told better	I have to start by telling you I love Arthurian inspired novels.  I've read and collected many over the years, from T.H.White's \\"The Once and Future King\\", Mary Stewart's trilogy, Stephen Lawhead's five book \\"Pendragon Cycle\\", along with books by Sharon Newman, Richard Monaco, A.A. Attanasio, Marion Zimmer Bradley, etc, etc, etc.  Ever since I read the \\"The Sword in the Stone\\" in primary school, I have been spellbound by the story, and enjoy seeing each writer's perspective in their interpretation of the tale.<br />Bernard Cornwell's interpretation of the Arthurian legend, \\"The Warlord Chronicles\\" begun with \\"The Winter King\\" and followed by \\"Enemy of God\\" and \\"Excalibur\\" is, in my opinion, the best so far.  The Chronicles take the form of a reflection written by Derfal, one of Arthur's warriors, in old age retired to a monastery.  Derfal delights in working behind his abbot's back (he was an old enemy), but he has the protection of his Queen, desperate for a good story.  During his time with Arthur, Derfal rose through the ranks to become a brave and loyal commander and a trusted confidant.  His position allowed him unique insight into the character of Arthur and all the other figures prominent in the legend.  His personal journey leads to love and eventual marriage to a high borne woman, the joy and despair of fatherhood, finding his true ancestry and conversion from paganism to the fledgling Christianity.<br />Most people are familiar in some way with the bones of the Arthurian legend, so I'm not going to tell you anything about the plot.  Without deviating too far from the accepted story, in this retelling, Cornwell gives the legend substance.  What makes it stand apart is the way he fleshes out the characters so they take on a reality other writers can only dream of (Nimue is particularly good).  Cornwell's writing flows so effortlessly, and you quickly become engrossed by the people, the places and the strategy.  You can smell the fires, taste the food and wine, feel the harsh winter cold, hear the terrified screams of women and children and see the battles unfold before you.  I never thought I would enjoy reading battle scenes, but these (and there are many) are so well written, I didn't skip a word.  The motivations of characters, explained by the often cruel and harsh lives they endured, become real.  Life was just one huge struggle, no matter where and to whom you were born.<br />\\"The Warlord Chronicles\\", which should be read in sequence, is a must for all fans of the Arthurian legend, but anyone who enjoys a well-written story of high adventure will find much to appreciate here.	2000-12-19
US	50184762	R38C0JADDKMZLG	0140266771	828000274	Larry's Party	Books	4	2	3	N	N	A/mazing!	An elderly friend recommended Carol Shields to me many years ago - I wish I'd listened earlier.  This woman writes like I imagine angels sing.<br />While on their honeymoon trip to England with his wife Dorrie, Larry, a Canadian florist becomes inspired by the lush English hedges.  During a visit Hampton Court Palace, Larry becomes totally besotted by mazes, and thus is born a life calling.<br />Besides being about mazes, this book is a maze.  Each chapter jumps forward to a new point in Larry's life, but keeps twisting and turning and reflecting back on previous episodes; some that were life-shattering at the time, become mere asides when viewed from a different angle.  As Larry meanders through life, two marriages, fatherhood, career changes, etc., he remains beset by same inadequacies, failings and fears of his youth.  His life just seems to happen around him.  But since this book is a maze, we know it must have a goal, and when achieved, it is surprising, poignant and triumphant.  Then you realise he still has to get out of the maze.<br />I feel I might have some chance of understanding men better having read this book.  Carol Shields has obviously studied men intensely to come up with his incredibly believable character, an ordinary man.  All of the characters are well constructed and the dialogue is real.  The words melt together into flawless storytelling; a gem of a book.	2000-11-04
US	50184762	R2A71TEQSU7LAA	0312200587	615902369	Midnight Come	Books	1	5	7	N	N	WARNING! CANDIDATE FOR WORST BOOK EVER!	`Utterly engaging' screams the quote on the cover, then you notice it refers to a different book.  Take that as a warning.  Even the publishers couldn't find anything good to say about this effort.<br />Midnight Come is supposed to be a clerical whodunit, a murder mystery set within the religious community surrounding Canterbury Cathedral in England.  For the first 20 pages or so, I thought the author might bravely be attempting to create the olde-worlde \\"gas and gaiters\\" style of this sort of fiction from the 50's.  After 50 pages, I realised this book is purely a self-absorbed exercise in convoluted and precocious sentence construction and grammar, something that only my high school English master could have enjoyed.  There are hardly any nouns without adjectives or verbs without adverbs, and more clauses and subclauses to most sentences than I thought possible.  The result is pages covered with the most excruciatingly pompous language I've ever read.  Needless to say, I couldn't read much of it.<br />The characters!  The ex-military intelligence man, now a senior church official, with the \\"jolly hockey sticks\\" wife, curiously confined to a wheelchair after polio contracted soon after their marriage.  The cardboard cutout Deans, vicars, etc., could have leaped out of a Trollope novel.  The token Australian, a young, arachnophobic, woman archictect, was so stereotyped, she only just stopped short of \\"throwing a shrimp on the barbie\\" (maybe she did, I gave up after 80 pages).<br />The dialogue!  There is not one single person in this world who would ever utter the words put in these character's mouths.  \\"`I'm afraid', she said, dropping her gaze, `that I suffer a little from arachnophobia.'\\"  As an Australian, I *know* she would have said `I bloody HATE spiders!', and her gaze wouldn't have dropped an inch.<br />Do yourself a favour and read something (anything) else.  This has only got one star because I couldn't save it with none.	2000-11-04
US	50184762	R2Y068GZPS71C6	0312179952	178515130	The Story of My Disappearance	Books	4	5	5	N	N	The Cold War hots up	You know how sometimes it takes several pages before you really get into a book?  Well, this book only needed one sentence to get me nibbling at the bait, and two more paragraphs to have me completely hooked.  <br />In the Newport, Rhode Island bar where Suleika and Paul were going through the death throes of their relationship, a sudden, brutal murder brought back into Paul's life a man who he had betrayed and long thought dead.<br />The central character is quickly revealed as an East German operative named Paul Wederkind, planted into the RI fishing community, shortly before the Berlin Wall came down.  The old tub of a fishing boat he operates with Suleika, the widow of the man he secretly entered the USA to assist, also serves to covertly transport \\"cargo\\" to and from Russian submarines.<br />As the story unfolds, we learn about the machinations of the East German secret police, the war in Afghanistan, the Cold War - all things that normally would not interest me, but the writing is so compelling, I found myself just absorbing the story.<br />I've long been a fan of speculative fiction exploring alternate history, but in this book, the author seems to create an alternate biography.  Partway through the book, Paul Wederkind changes his name to a more Americanised form, Watkins - is this really an autobiography?  Well, the book jacket tells us Paul Watkins (the author) was born of Welsh parents and educated at Eton and Yale, so I guess not.   Maybe this is his more exciting alternate life - I can associate with that.  But he obviously has a Suleika in his own life - the author photo on the jacket is attributed to someone of that name. <br />This is the first of Paul Watkins' books I've read, and I'm grateful he seems to have been reasonably prolific, so I can enjoy more of this wonderful writing.	2000-11-04
US	50184762	R2G4SG0OP48DNY	0385333366	472660217	Ghost Country	Books	3	9	13	N	N	Sara Cops Out!	When you think of Sara Paretsky, you can't help but think of V.I. Warshawski in the very same thought.  Most people who picked up this book probably assumed it was a new adventure for V.I.; after all, that's what Sara Paretsky writes.  Well, I'm sure Sara Paretsky is a multi-dimensional person herself, and as such is allowed to write what she likes - if we're disappointed that V.I. is not a character in this book, that's our problem, not hers.  There really was no room for V.I. in this story, anyway.  But that didn't stop me having a problem.<br />Still set in Chicago, Paretsky weaves an urban fable around the most unlikely heroines; the homeless, \\"mad\\" and dispossessed.  We all know about homeless people, but do we have any idea how they get that way?  How can an unquenchable craving for alcohol bring a world famous operatic diva onto the streets with her hardly noticing?  It seems incredible to me, but I have never experienced that thirst.  Why do the withheld histories of her mother and grandmother cause a young woman to construct alternative lives for them and go looking for them?  I don't know - I'm sure we don't have such secrets in my family.  How can someone see rusty water leaking from a crack in a wall, and see the blood of the Virgin Mary?  I don't know - I don't have that sort of faith.<br />Then there are those who help.  What is help?  Is the shelter provided by Hagar House really help, with all the miles of strings attached in the name of some sort of self-serving Christianity.  Does the hospital really provide help, with the dispensation of drugs and 15 minute psychiatric sessions?<br />The supposedly normal people are also a mass of confliction.  The golden girl, freezing her emotions down deep while striving relentlessly for the approval of a domineering grandfather.  The domineering grandfather, treated as a god by the hospital and by a manipulative housekeeper.  The idealistic, young psychiatrist, still naïve enough to put concern for patients ahead of concern for the hospital.  The hellfire and brimstone preaching lay brother, with his abused, repressed and cowered daughter, and bully of a son.  The large hotel, owners of the wall worshipped by the homeless women and the lengths they are prepared to go to get rid of them.<br />But then the story takes a fantasy turn, and unfortunately gets lost.  A mysteriously erotic, unintelligible woman named Starr enters, and manages to heal everyone's afflictions and punish the manipulators.  With her Medusa-like hairstyle, is she a reincarnated Sumarian goddess, or a female Christ?  Well, what she is, is a cop-out.  I was appalled to find this story that had provoked my thoughts and held me spell-bound for many pages, suddenly turned into a silly little fantasy.  The introduction of this character was completely unnecessary - a writer of Paretsky's proven skill resorting to such artifice to resolve a skilfully constructed set-up is extremely disappointing.<br />Still, I found quite a bit of food for thought in this book.  How precariously many of us totter on the precipice, how tiny the nudge to send us spinning out of control.  What then?	2000-11-03
US	50184762	RUI605JGDU543	0805009183	893801992	Annotated Ultimate Alphabet	Books	5	8	8	N	N	A gift from Mike Wilks to everyone!	This is a picturebook for people of all ages.  I bought all 5 copies the shop had in stock when I found it about 10 years ago - kept one for myself and the rest were gratefully accepted Xmas gifts (for adults).<br />There is one beautifully rendered, extraordinary detailed, surrealistic picture for each letter of the alphabet. Each picture contains as many items/things/people with names beginning with that letter that Mike Wilks could think of - usually hundreds and many are quite obscure at first, but so obvious later. <br />Taking a lead from Rembrandt, each picture also contains a self-portrait of the amazingly talented artist, but although this is no simple &quot;Where's Wally&quot;, they are similar in that what you have to do is work out as many of the items as you can. In the Annotated Ultimate Alphabet, an outline drawing accompanies each picture so you get a bit of a hint of what you're looking for, and there is a solution for each picture, often containing even more information.  I've learned more about knots, kegs, parts of a horse, joints (the carpentry kind), symbols, various alphabets and arches than I've ever learned from any other one book and this one is only about half an inch thick and heaps more fun than an encyclopaedia.  I have had as much fun looking at these pictures with my 34-year-old sister as my 9-year-old niece.<br />I would love to go to the bar where one of the other reviewers encountered it - what a wonderful way to share the genius of this artist!<br />This book is worthy of remaining in print forever.  If you ever see one, grab it, because it makes a wonderful present (if you can bear to part with it).	2000-10-26
US	50184762	RYD1VMJ783XZ8	0140258795	803603230	Longitude: The True Story of a Lone Genius Who Solved the Greatest Scientific Problem of His Time	Books	3	13	18	N	N	5-star topic, unfortunately only a 3-star book	This is not a book I would have chosen for myself, but I'm very glad someone lent it to me.  A fairly slim volume, with large type and well-spaced lines, I knocked it over on a rainy Sunday afternoon.<br />Due to the large numbers of people dying at sea simply because they banged into rocks they thought were miles away, in 17th century England a committee was set up to award a prize to the person who could come up with a way for sailors to easily determine their longitude to within half a degree - apparently determining latitude is relatively simple.  The prize of 20,000 pounds offered was substantial; probably closer to $1,000,000 in todays' terms, so all sorts of weird and wacky ideas were put forward - in fact, the committee didn't even convene for many years, with most ideas rejected by members acting alone.  The committee survived for over 100 years; possible because it was made up of incumbents of esteemed positions, e.g. the Astronomer Royal, the mathematics professors at Oxford, etc.  Some pretty illustrious people filled those positions over that time (Halley, of comet fame, for instance) and not all of them were impartial - some wanted to win the prize themselves.<br />Navigation by the stars is a romantic notion, but in those days, mariners could only determine their position with any accuracy on cloudless nights.  How could they find their way in the daytime or in storms, especially if they had to rely on observing of the moons of Jupiter to make their calculations?  Even if the sea was calm enough to allow them to take the necessary sightings, the calculations took seven or eight hours to resolve (by which time they could be dashed against an unexpected rock).  With GPS, modern navigation must be a cakewalk!<br />John Harrison, a man of humble origins, was a self-taught clockmaker who knew that accurate timekeeping was the way to go.  A carpenter by trade, his understanding of the properties of various woods enabled him to make highly accurate clocks with self-lubricating frictionless WOODEN parts that still run today!  This man was certainly a genius, and the single-minded determination with which he pursued the longitude prize is admirable, especially in the face of the opposition of a committee which seemed to be determined to allow only a celestial method to win the prize.  Until Harrison's breakthrough designs, clocks were notoriously inaccurate while the heavens were constant, so a committee heavily weighted by astronomers and mathematicians were hard to convince.  Harrison's clocks were put through extraordinary testing, with the committee determined not to award him the prize until the King himself intervened and took part in one of the trials.  Even then, as a very old man, he only received part of the prize (along with a special payment) and the rest was still unawarded when the committee disbanded.  <br />Three of the four sea-going clocks Harrison invented in the 1700's still run and keep astoundingly accurate time, despite the dreadful treatment they endured.  The prize winner, made in a different way and susceptible to wear, is too precious to run but, with the others, is on display in England.  I wish I'd known about them when I lived there.  The edition I read had no pictures, but it contained a bookmark with pictures of each of the clocks, although you get no idea of their relative size.<br />I found this book very disjointed, and perhaps because she was not intending to write a technical treatise, I found the author sometimes tended to oversimplify, sometimes was downright chatty, and other times was very judgemental.  The topic, however, is so fascinating that it is worth reading if you have any interest whatsoever in navigation, horology, or genius.	2000-10-26
US	50184762	R2ZL23FD167NJR	0805059555	181097130	"O" Is for Outlaw	Books	4	0	1	N	N	O is for OKAY!	Quite a few years ago, I went through a phase of reading only detective fiction, and discovered that women write some of the best around.  Some  women writers who developed strong female protagonists became my  favourites, and even though I've largely gone off detective fiction, I've  continued following the careers of Marcia Muller's Sharon McCone, Sara  Paretsky's V.I. Warshawski, Margaret Maron's Deborah Knott and, of course,  Sue Grafton's Kinsey Milhone.  Like most of the other reviewers, I started  at A, and just last month got to O.  Already I'm wondering what will happen  to Kinsey when Sue Grafton gets to Z.<br />I found the note to the reader  regarding the timeline of this series of novels interesting, since I had  sort of been wondering how come Kinsey had no mobile phone, continued to  manually type her reports, and relied on friends and contacts to help get  information, most of which is now readily available on the Internet - she's  living in 1986!  The fact that only 4 years have elapsed from A (set in  1982) to O explains why Kinsey's life has hardly changed (particularly in  comparison to those other detectives referred to above).  Kinsey continues  to live in her converted garage, and still flogs her geriatric VW up and  down the Californian highways.  She still owns only one dress (probably the  same one), favouring jeans and T-shirt as working attire, still lives on  junk food, sandwiches and Hungarian food, and still begrudgingly runs and  works out.  <br />One thing I particularly enjoyed with this episode was  finding out a bit more about Kinsey's past.  Although her marriages have  been mentioned many times in passing, this time we found out a lot about  her first marriage, and through that, a lot more about what makes Kinsey  tick.<br />When Kinsey gets a call from a guy who buys up stuff from defaulted  storage units, saying he had some of her old personal things, for the first  time in many years she decides to track down her first husband, who rented  the unit in the first place.  She eventually finds him hovering on death's  door after being shot with a gun he'd given her as a wedding present and  which, although left behind when she left the marriage, was still  registered to her.  In her attempts to find who shot him, Kinsey uncovers a  mystery going back to the war-torn jungles of Vietnam, revisits people from  her old life, finds out she'd misjudged her husband, and meets some weird  and interesting characters.<br />Once again, while sometimes giving more  details than I really need, Sue Grafton manages to keep the plot full of  twists and turns right until the end.  It won't come as a surprise to find  that although beset by a host of desperate characters, Kinsey survives  everything to make a return appearance in whatever P is for.  Can't wait  for that.	2000-09-02
US	50184762	R3LUE9UGXNJW49	0312954468	345931989	River God: A Novel of Ancient Egypt (Novels of Ancient Egypt)	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Wilbur Smith sure knows how to tell a story!	Within weeks of each other, two people who know of my eclectic interests  gave me this book.  Neither of them knew that although Wilbur Smith was  once (20 years ago) my favourite author, I'd long gone off him (too many  dead elephants).  For many years, I've affectionately remembered one of his  early books, &quot;The Sunbird&quot;, as being my favourite of his works.   I'm loathe to re-read it, as his story-telling skills have improved over  the years, something I realised when desperate for something to read, I  grabbed one of the copies from where they sat on my shelves, side by  side.<br />It must be remembered that Wilbur Smith is a writer of adventure  stories.  He is not, and doesn't pretend to be, a historian.  That being  said, he's masterly drawn from history and complemented it with his vivid  imagination in this adventure set in ancient Egypt.<br />The &quot;first  person&quot; in this story is Taita, perhaps one of the most capable and  arrogant central characters ever developed.  Taita was a slave, but that  was really in name only - his talents and abilities allowed him to enjoy a  large degree of freedom.  A stunningly handsome man, among his many skills  Taita was a poet, painter, architect, doctor, politician, Svengali.  However, first and always foremost, Taita was a eunuch.  Taita's incredible  abilities and achievements were tempered by the sad fact he could never  gain the prize he desired most, the reciprocation of his adoration for  Lostris, his mistress.  Ironically, his position was only possible because  because of his lack of manly parts.<br />The opulent life of the ancient  Egyptian nobility and royalty is vividly brought to life - you can almost  smell it on the pages.  Many witers have achieved that.  What sets  &quot;River God&quot; apart, however, is when the story takes a turn with  the Hyksos invasion, where the Egyptians, their military might long  unchallenged, met more than their match.  The Hyksos, with their horses and  chariots, proved to be an opponent the Eqyptians had no idea how to battle  - the Egyptians didn't even have the wheel at that stage. To buy time, they  employed that age-old military strategy - retreat.  And what a  retreat!<br />We all know the Nile is one of the Earth's mightiest rivers, but  most of us have never seen it, and perhaps don't realize the true magnitude  of the incredible path it has cut through Africa on it's never-ending  journey to the Mediterranean.  It's almost impossible to imagine the scale  of the retreat, the thousands upon thousands of soldiers, slaves and common  people who accompanied the court in an effort to find a safe place to use  as a platform for a counter-attack.  The retreating Egyptians had to drag  all their stuff (they were no light packers!) and themselves up the Nile's  many cataracts, where the sheer cliffs and savage terrain denied them  access to the banks.  Fortunately, among his many skills, Taita was also an  engineer, coming up with masterly ways to negotiate the river, even as he  was designing a better chariot.  Horses stolen from the Hyksos were bred  and trained, soldiers learned to ride, drive chariots, and learned a  completely different way to wage war.  Then in the relative safety of the  grasslands of the upper reaches of the Nile, they met new and different  challenges, bitter losses and desperate setbacks.  Thank goodness Taita was  always there to save the day.<br />Other authors have come up with these  larger than life characters, brimming with unbelievable abilities and  incredible talents (Gary Jennings' memorable Thorn, central character in  &quot;Raptor&quot; comes immediately to mind) - sort of historical  super-heroes.  Looking at the evidence that has been left by ancient  civilisations, I reckon they must have had at least some people of  extraordinary talent and abilities, but the magnitude of Taita's skills,  all wrapped up in one man, is pretty hard to accept.  Some people cannot  look past that,and the historical inaccuracies that this type of fiction  engenders.  However, I would urge you to suspend disbelief and enjoy this  for what it was always intended to be - a jolly good, well written,  completely absorbing adventure story, set on a grand scale, when life on  Earth was so different to ours.  <br />When you've finished, run out and get  &quot;The Seventh Scroll&quot; to find out how Taita's efforts protected  his secrets for thousands of years; another adventure of mammoth  proportions.	2000-08-26
US	50184762	R1Q3EPT95CEHN3	0446605506	888893013	Both Ends of the Night (Sharon McCone Mysteries)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Catch up with Sharon's latest adventure!	During the time I've known her, Sharon McCone's career has advanced from humble beginnings as an investigator in a co-operative legal service to  owning her own private investigation agency employing several operatives  and a computer guru.  She's moved from a tiny studio apartment with  eccentric neighbours to a fully renovated house with two cats and has a  half share in a property on the coast.  She has learned to fly and become  an accomplished pilot.  After a series of go-nowhere relationships, she's  finally settled into a comfortable long-term partnership, on her terms,  with someone who doesn't want to change her.  She's been shot at, beaten up  and got herself into and out of every sort of dangerous situation.  She's a  product of Marcia Muller's imagination, and every time I open one of her  novels, I feel like I'm catching up with an old friend.<br />When Matty, the  woman who taught Sharon to fly contacts her with a rather transparent  excuse for a meeting, Sharon soon finds herself on another case.  Turns out  the instructor's live-in lover has disappeared, leaving Matty with his  adolescent son and $70,000 in the bank.  When she finds a message from her  missing lover warning that her life may be in danger, Matty refuses to  forego a planned aerobatic air show, with disastrous results.  Sharon finds  herself with a grieving boy on her hands, but luckily, her network of  friends are more than willing to help.  Soon Sharon finds the missing man  is not who everyone thinks he is and she, together with her lover, Hy  Ripinsky, set off across the country on a search for the truth.  And the  truth is not pretty, as they uncover a network of corruption involving a  large corporation and government, while desperately trying to stay  alive.<br />Since I met Sharon many years ago in an anthology of short stories  by women detective fiction writers, and quickly catching up with her old  stories, I've been lucky enough to meet up with her at least once a year tohear of her latest escapades.   Yeah, I know she's not real, but once you  get involved in this series of books, you can't help but feel she is.   Marcia Muller has created such a constantly evolving character that instead  of becoming stale after 18 novels, she's only become more interesting, and  has taken on a life of her own.  Most writers can't help but project some  of themselves onto their characters, and I'm guessing Marcia Muller is  fearlessly loyal to her friends, happy in her relationship and really LOVES  to fly!<br />Keep `em coming, Marcia Muller!  I'll keep reading them as long  as you keep writing them.	2000-08-22
US	50184762	R20NVIREM4XEDN	0929480058	924098819	Them bones	Books	5	10	12	N	N	If this doesn't get you thinking, nothing will!	Why Howard Waldrop isn't revered as one of America's greatest authors is  something I'll never understand.  I guess it just could be that the way he  rewrites history is just not to everyone's taste, but I can't believe this  book is &quot;Out of Print&quot; when so many other less worthy tomes  litter the shelves and bargain boxes of our bookstores.  I was lucky enough  to find this in a secondhand bookshop while on a trip to Melbourne almost  six years ago.<br />In 1929, a horse skeleton is found in a mound on a dig in  the Louisiana swamp.  No problem with that, you might think, but the mound  pre-dated the accepted time when horses were introduced to America.  However, the mound contained something even more anachronistic; the thing  that killed the horse - corroded by time - a brass rifle cartridge!<br />This  is a story of time shifting, what could have happened and what the  consequences could have been.  From the bombed-out, radiation drenched 21st  century (this book was written in 1989), Madison Yazoo Leake, a member of  the Special Group, is transported back in time in an attempt to stop the  human species dying out completely.  Leake thought he was entering 1930's  Louisiana, but instead journeyed to a world where Arabs explored America,  the Roman Empire never existed, and the Aztec empire extended to the  Mississippi.  And his back-up never arrived.<br />Although the concept of  future humans backstepping in time to save the human race has been handled  many times by many authors (the last one I read was Orson Scott Card's  &quot;Pastwatch&quot;), Howard Waldrop gives it the spin only he can.<br />I  live in an ancient country which accepted history tells us was only  recently (212 years ago) settled by Europeans, but where someone thinks  he's discovered ruins of a thousands-of-years old Phoenician harbour in  Queensland (maybe he's a nut, who knows?), where people in Victoria are  seaching for the &quot;Mahogany Ship&quot;, supposedly the wreck of aPortuguese ship, that when documented by white settlers in the early 1800's  was already more than 200 years old.  Maybe they're all nuts, but the story  is now almost 200 years old itself.  The latest excavation in the area  revealed a piece of several hundreds of years old European oak  &quot;driftwood&quot; 12 feet under the dunes - anachronistic enough in  itself to be further investigated, I would have thought. <br />Howard Waldrop  had nothing to do with either of these stories, but they are almost worthy  of him.  This world is a strange place, and it gets stranger with every  discovery.  Who knows what could have happened, what really happened?   Howard Waldrop is the very best at asking and answering these questions.   That's why I love this type of speculative fiction.	2000-08-22
US	50184762	R2LZ2AHVX1O2HI	0812508645	216137473	Pastwatch: The Redemption of Christopher Columbus	Books	4	6	6	N	N	History is such a precarious thing!	Not being American, I just know the accepted historical fact, &quot;In fourteen hundred and ninety two, Columbus sailed the ocean blue&quot;.  It  has never had an impact on my life, which probably should feel more  impacted by my country's own &quot;discoverer&quot;, Captain James Cook,  than it does.  I put &quot;discoverer&quot; in quotes because like America,  Australia was always there; ships had been banging into both of them for  years, but no-one had bothered to claim them on behalf of European powers  before them.  Anyway, I just picked this book up because Orson Scott Card  wrote it and that was good enough for me.  I didn't even realise Columbus  needed redemption.  Boy, was I wrong.<br />The thing that struck me most in  this story was how precarious life on Earth is.  One guy takes it into his  head to sail west, and unlike any others that may have preceded him,  completely changes history.  It's ironic that the great civilizations of  the Americas could be brought to their knees by measles and influenza, but  in the end, they got some retribution, because Columbus's people took  syphilis back with them to Europe.  Card's idea of people from the future  backstepping in time to halt these plagues, thus changing the balance of  power, is simple and ingenious.  (Once you get into this speculation thing,  it's hard to stop. There is some evidence emerging in Australia that  perhaps the Portuguese could have had a claim on this country long before  the British - this country could so easily have been another Brazil! Taking  that speculation a personal step further, if that was so, my German  ancestors probably wouldn't have migrated here 160 years ago, and my folks  might have died as kids in WW2.)  <br />When it comes to speculative fiction,  not many people come near Orson Scott Card.  He manages to turn a distant  historical figure into a man of passion and courage, mixed with a healthy  dose of obsession.  He gives us some idea of what the cultures of the  Americas could have been like before their decimation.  The Prentice Alvin  books proved he is one of the masters of &quot;alternate history&quot;  (another is Howard Waldrop - try his &quot;Them Bones&quot;, unfortunately  out of print, for another intriguing alternate American history).   <br />Unlike some other reviewers, I don't have a problem with the lack of  explanation of how future technology works - if Card knew that, maybe he  could invent some of the things he's written about and really get things  moving.  Think of it this way: try to explain Amazon.com to an Amazonian  tribesman - he probably has never seen a book, let alone tried to buy one  on-line!  I can accept that technology to view past events could be  available, particularly if I'm going to accept the possibility of actually  going there.  I recently read a book by Robert Silverberg where travel  agents of the distant future arrange trips so that their clients can travel  back in time to view great events and catastrophes of the past, just for  fun!  And even that was based on a much earlier book. <br />Orson Scott Card  ranks right up near the top of my favourite writers. Whatever his topic, it  is always handled with the compassion and spirituality his personal faith  has given him, but which he doesn't overtly preach at us. Somehow, after  reading his work, even a cynic like me can feel better for having a brush  with his faith and his hope for mankind.	2000-08-22
US	50184762	RO3TLE62T03CU	0942681053	456054585	Night of the Cooters: More Neat Stories	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Why is this out of print?	I'm completely mystified why Howard Waldrop's books are out of print - they should be required reading for everyone!  Although it's easy to assume  this guy is seriously crazy, he possesses the most imaginative mind I've  ever come across.  His stories often take a historical event, and give it  such a neat little twist, you end up wishing it had happened that way.   Whatever the subject, you just find yourself thinking, &quot;Hey! What if  .....&quot; and surely that can only broaden your mind.  Isn't that what  the art of short story writing is all about?  To get us  thinking?<br />Although I'm responding to this excellent collection (which  I've owned for many years), my favourite of his short story collections,  &quot;Strange Things in Close Up&quot; is not even listed here!  Among 19  wonderful stories, it contains &quot;The Ugly Chickens&quot; which has to  be one of the best short stories ever written (most of the rest of my  personal top ten short stories are also by him).  You'll really believe  dodos were alive (in America, no less) into this century - after all, Paul  Linberl saw the photo. This story also made me find out what on earth  Pachelbel's &quot;Canon in D&quot; was and was instrumental in changing my  taste in music forever!<br />From far-off Australia, I urge all Americans to  rise up and demand Howard Waldrops books are reissued so they can rush to  log on to Amazon and buy them!  This guy should be revered as one of your  greatest authors, not languishing among the &quot;Out of Print&quot;!	2000-08-22
US	50184762	RMDH5L6NSHCCR	0425167313	184894886	Here on Earth (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	1	8	9	N	N	Find something else to read!	Accompanied by her adolescent daughter, March returns to the small, rural town she grew up in to attend the funeral of a long time family retainer.  In this cold, bleak New England environment, she reforms a relationship  with her childhood sweetheart, who originally entered her life when March's  father brought him, a disturbed and underprivileged teenager, into their  family home.  Their hot and heavy teenage affair, interrupted when Hollis  went off to make his fortune and was unheard of for several years, had  ended 20 years or so ago, when March stopped waiting for him, married  another local fellow, moved to California and had a child.<br />Before she  realised what was going on, March had been manipulated by a seriously  disturbed, violent predator into a situation where she could no longer  think straight (but I doubt she ever could), and had given up almost every  bit of power she might have had.  Along the way her daughter, Gwen, had to  learn a whole new set of skills just to survive.<br />This story of jealousy,  control and obsession, though written well enough to keep me reading to the  end, irritated me immensely.  The characters were poorly developed,  cardboard stereotypes.  March was such a wimp, she could hardly be  described as a character and, except for the twirling moustaches, Hollis  could have stepped straight out of a melodrama.  The only interesting  central character was Gwen who, with no help from her mother, made the  difficult transition from a self-absorbed child into a young woman, doing  what she had to so that she and those she'd grown to love could survive (in  fact, if the story had have been written with her as the central character,  I think it would have worked much better).  In a town full of people  protecting secrets, the secondary characters were much more fascinating.   But what annoyed me most was how this whole story was wrapped up, with a  whole lot of bedraggled loose ends, within about five pages of a scene of  lifeand death madness.  Did Ms Hoffman just get tired of writing it, or  did she somehow know I would be completely sick of reading it by then?   After all that, I still don't know what happened to Gwen, Hank, Tarot,  Belinda, Louise, etc.  I don't care what happened to March.<br />Having now  read what has been touted everywhere as an up-to-date retelling of  &quot;Wuthering Heights&quot;, I have resolved to leave that book off the  list of classics I must read. And though I don't like to judge an author on  the basis of one book, I doubt if I'll worry too much about seeking out any  of Ms Hoffman's other efforts.	2000-07-20
US	50184762	R2F3D0UCAUEUP	038072054X	553406951	The Torching	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Evil transcends time - feel that heat!	In this tale of history, horror and mysticism, events from more than 250 years ago take on a terrifying reality in the life of a 1990's woman.<br />Alice Grey inherited Wetherell's Rare and Used Books from her  grandmother, who had taken Alice in after her parents were tragically  killed.  The shop was her community - she lived above it, provided a home  to a nationally admired writers' group which attracted and nurtured both  published and wannabe writers from all over the Washington area, and the  people from the group and those who worked there were her friends.   <br />Alice's latest book was the story of Evangaline Smith, an 18th century  apothecary and midwife in a nearby settlement, who was sentenced to burn as  a witch. As the investigation into Evangaline's life deepens, she becomes  aware of startling parallels in their lives. It soon becomes apparent that  the only way she can save herself and her reputation is to find out what  really happened to Evangaline.<br />This well written book is skillfully and  compellingly plotted, bringing the harsh, puritanical town of Maidstone in  the 1730's as vividly to life as modern Georgetown.  It seems greed,  jealousy, and the lengths to which people will go to avoid being found out  haven't changed at all.<br />If you like your thrillers with a bit of a spooky  and mystical edge, this is for you.<br />I can't imagine why Marcy Heidish's  entire fiction list is &quot;out of print&quot; - I borrowed this from my  local library, and now I'm eager to read more of her work.	2000-07-20
US	50184762	R3NGRUYZ2ZE5TP	0385335121	870989999	Tara Road: Oprah Selection #26	Books	2	72	95	N	N	A poor effort by a great writer	I have long been an admiring reader of Maeve Binchey's novels, since an Irish friend of a friend in London about 20 years ago encouraged me to read \\"Light a Penny Candle\\", and even after being slightly disappointed by  \\"Evening Class\\", eagerly looked forward to reading \\"Tara Road\\".  And was  REALLY disappointed. <br />In Dublin, Ireland, Ria answers a phone call  actually meant for her real estate agent husband from the American,  Marilyn, seeking advice about a house exchange for the summer. Finally  realising her marriage is over, Ria jumps at the opportunity to get away  and try to put things into perspective.<br />I don't know if I've become jaded  after too much of a good thing, or if Ms Binchey has. This book follows the  trend established with \\"Evening Class\\" - again, a huge amount of words and  a vast cast were used to distract us from a rather thin story, populated by  huge numbers of trite, stereotyped characters.  Danny, the charming,  aldulterous rogue.  Ria, the wife who had no clue.  Rosemary,  ultra-successful, ultimately the false friend.  Gertie, entangled by bonds  of `love' to a stereotypical drunken bully.  Marilyn, lost in grief,  rejecting her equally grief-stricken husband.  Nora, Barney, Polly, Colm,  all the (many) others - I just wanted to smack some sense into them!   Everyone was so busy keeping various secrets from various others, no-one  knew any truths, even though they were all so transparent.  The only  credible characters in the whole book were Brian, Ria's sometimes  embarrassingly outspoken but always honest son, and Bernadette, the other,  other, other woman.<br />However, Ms Binchey's wonderful way with words,  particularly dialogue, kept me reading the unwieldy 639 page paperback copy  I found.  Even that failed me.  As in her previous novels, dialogue written  for Irish characters flows so wonderfully, sometimes I read it aloud, just  for the sheer enjoyment of hearing those words.  But she used the same  idiom for her American characters, making their dialogue ridiculous.<br />I've  always admired Ms Binchey's ability to create characters so real, you  almost feel you would greet them by name if you were fortunate enough to  encounter them in the streets of the equally brilliantly created  villages/towns/cities they inhabit.  These hackneyed characters were limp,  cardboard cutouts.  For me, there was no heart in it - it felt like a  formula book written to fill a contract.  Once I started disliking things,  I found more and more.  I have awarded my stars on the following basis: one  out of nostalgia for the author's previous body of work, and the second for  her sheer effort in writing so many words.<br />Although disappointed by this  work, I would urge you to read Maeve Binchey's other novels, particularly  \\"Circle of Friends\\" (the whole point was missed in the translation to the  screen), \\"The Glass Lake\\" and the wonderful \\"Light a Penny Candle\\".	2000-07-20
US	50184762	RUZ26Y8D0C2UF	0449983633	836064582	River of Hidden Dreams	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Moving on, via the past	I seem to be working my way backwards through Connie May Fowler's list, after serendipitiously finding &quot;Before Women Had Wings&quot;.  Ms Fowler certainly has a gift with opening paragraphs - I usually give a  novel 10 pages to hook me, but both of these books had me well and truely  landed after one paragraph.<br />Sadie is a feisty, 40ish, tour guide in the  Florida Everglades, but her real vocation is that of a story teller. She  finds her captive audiences among those chartering her elderly but regal  boat, the product of an almost unbearably steadfast love, inherited from  her mother and grandmother after their amazingly unlucky deaths when she  was nine.<br />Sadie is unconditionally loved by Carlos, an accidental and  unwilling Cuban refugee, who has an endless tolerance for her headstrong  and stubborn behaviour, and her complete unwillingness to commit to  anything.<br />Sadie's struggle to come to terms with her own life is  beautifully entwined with the stories of &quot;her women&quot;, as their  their stubborn strength and fortitude emerges though a series of dreams and  childhood rememberances.  We are drawn back to the times of newly  emancipated slaves and Native Americans torn from their homelands  (realising that was not so many generations ago), and are given a grand  tour of the Everglades and the Florida coast.  But mostly we are taken on a  trip through love in many of its forms - unrequited, unconditional,  uncompromising, enduring - as Sadie learns to love herself and allow  herself to be cherished.<br />I recommend this book highly and I'm looking  forward to reading more from this fine writer.	2000-07-20
US	50184762	R3R2B34L4ORB9R	0670874191	621398075	Closing Ranks (Hardcover)	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Charming social satire, rotten at the core	Set thirty or so years after World War Two, \\"Closing Ranks\\" starts out as a charmingly gentle English satire, a \\"comedy of manners\\", before it takes a darker turn, skilfully revealing atrocities committed during WW2 by the  British.<br />Having lived at Hartleap for generations, the proud Grayle  family has gone into financial decline, with most of the estate leased to  outsiders.  On her deathbed, an ancient family retainer, Nanny Grayle,  makes some startling revelations; the celebrated family hero was \\"wicked\\"  and his son is \\"tainted\\".<br />Before her death, one of the tenants, a  journalist researching the story of Beau Grayle, a great hero who died in  WW2, spent a lot of time with Nanny Grayle.  It just so happened the  servant, in whose arms Beau Grayle supposedly died, was Nanny Grayle's  nephew and only heir.  The family gathers for the funeral, and as terrible  secrets begin to emerge, they close ranks.<br />I've been fascinated by Dirk  Bogarde's career as an actor - he starred in about 60 films, starting out  as a juvenile lead in 1947, he was matinee idol in the 1950's and 1960's  before really making his dramatic mark in the later years of his career in  films such as The Servant, Death In Venice and Daddy Nostalgie.  His career  as an author began with what ultimately became seven volumes hugely  entertaining autobiography, and he eventually branched out into fiction.   After serving in WW2, his fascination with events during that time is  obviously the basis for \\"Closing Ranks\\".<br />This is the only one of Dirk  Bogarde's fictional works that I've read, and I enjoyed it very much - it's  stylish, witty, and above all, doesn't hold back in revealing part of war  history I'm sure the British would rather forget.  It is, however, very  British, both in attitude and language, and might not appeal to everyone,  but coming from one of the &quot;colonies&quot; and having lived in the UK  for several years, I had no problem with that.	2000-07-20
US	50184762	R1WMXGOI3FFJS6	0425164829	932552037	The Magician's Tale	Books	3	5	7	N	N	It's all so black and white, in the end	The protagonist in this thriller is different from the run of the mill cop, ex-cop, private eye, etc.  Kay Farrow is a photographer who, in an effort to overcome her own fears, draws on her revolted fascination with  San Francisco's hustling scene to document commercial sex.  She soon finds  herself, if not accepted, at least tolerated in the Gulch, where she forms  an unusual bond with Tim Lovesey, whose beauty entrances both Kay and her  camera.  Though their worlds are so different, Kay and Tim become close (or  so she thinks), as she works on a series of studies for a potential  book.<br />After Tim does not turn up at a pre-arranged meeting, Kay's fears  are realised when his head and some body parts turn up in a dumpster.  Kay  then makes a sometimes uncomfortable alliance with the police investigating  the case, and discovers a link with an old serial killing case that,  incredibly, involved her ex-cop father.  She also discovers she knew  absolutely nothing about Tim at all.<br />Like many novels of this genre, The  Magician's Tale relies on readers accepting a larger than life protagonist  and a complex and incredible set of coincidences.  The alliance with the  good cop/bad cop police was barely credible, and SFO must be the only place  in the world where someone passing by with a camera can photograph a  corpse.  Or bits of one.  Maybe they just have to be daughters of ex-cops.   Besides all that, we also have to accept that Kay suffers from an eyesight  affliction, which besides rendering her totally colour-blind, makes her  vision extremely (often dangerously) sensitive to light, but does not stop  her becoming a whiz at b/w photography (obviously with low lighting).   Fortunately for her, the tradeoff is enhanced night vision, and since she  sees in monochrome anyway (except when the author forgets), it makes it  easy for her to categorise everyone - no shades of grey there.  Only black  hats and white hats would have made the definitions sharper.  Shealso  seems to have suffered from tunnel vision, since she often used the  viewfinder to filter the view.  The Indian boyfriend, Sasha - what purpose  did he serve other than to allow Kay to have a very active (though  conventional, however sweaty) black and white sex life, perhaps to provide  a contrast to Tim's lifestyle.  And the guy in the park, P-L-EEASE!<br />Most  of those criticisms came in retrospect, as I was quickly absorbed in the  voyeuristic look at the world of commercial sex, the blurred line between  the hunters and the prey.  As the investigation continues, Kay finds the  shocking truth about Tim's formative life, and the effect his early  mentor's manipulation had on his later years. Along the way, she uncovers a  nasty web of power-mongering, police corruption and deception.<br />All faults  aside, \\"The Magician's Tale\\" is certainly a compelling thriller and it's  pretty obvious Kay Farrow is destined to make a return appearance.   However, I would reserve my opinion regarding comparisons made on the  jacket to Cornwell's Scarpetta, or Hoeg's Smilla until I see something  more.	2000-07-16
US	50184762	R2XMBH4N23T8MI	0804118906	816847926	Before Women Had Wings	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Connie May teaches us to fly	Connie May Fowler introduces us to a six year old girl, known as Bird because most people refused to believe someone was really called Avocet.  Although Bird knows no other life, we readers immediately realise she's  trapped in a dreadful existence - alcoholic, emotionally and physically  abusive and desperately poor.  Not a new story, but certainly not  derivitive.<br />We see the cycle of family dysfunction, brought on by lost  dreams, violence, poverty, hopelessness and alcoholism from Bird's  perspective as she desperately tries to make sense of it all.  Adding to  her confusion, she tries to find hope in religion, where even that is the  cause of a family rift - the children are divided between the Baptist  father and Catholic mother, and Bird is devastated when she finds she will  never be a Bride of Christ, like her sister. <br />Except for the extremes,  Bird's childhood is not that different from many of ours. I'm sure I wasn't  the only reader remembering the confusion of childhood, trying to make  sense of adults' behaviour, the strange religious stories, and the weird  stuff taught at school, wondering why everything that goes wrong is our  fault, enduring the cruelty inflicted by other children, desperately  longing to be loved and safe.  But if we were lucky, we had a warm bed,  food on the table, arms that hugged us and told us we were loved.  Among  the not so fortunate, Bird could take none these for granted.  <br />Although  there are countless stories of difficult childhoods, deprived by abuse,  alcoholism, poverty and endless other dysfunctions, there was something  about Bird's voice that rang clear and true - perhaps because it was  written from the perspective of a child, rather than an adult's  recollection, perhaps because she never asked for pity, perhaps because you  always knew someone so gutsy would survive.<br />They say you don't need to  have murdered to write of a murder, but as I was reading, I found it  impossible to believe this story could be written without experiencing that  childhood, and having read your interview with the author, I understand it  is at least partially autobiographical. I also thought it would be an  excellent choice for Oprah's Book Club, and now realise it was, obviously  before I started watching Oprah.<br />I picked up this book while browsing  through the library in the (increasingly difficult) search for something I  want to read and added it to my stack of books after flicking through and  reading a few random paragraphs.  What a wonderful accident!  Now I've  added a new author to my list.	2000-07-16
US	50184762	R3SFB68MVFO9A6	0006479286	655324600	On the Edge of Darkness	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Explore the dark side!	In her list of books, Barbara Erskine has mastered the art of using an item, a place or a person as a catalyst for a journey between the present time and the past.  In this title, a Celtic stone cross in the Scottish  highlands is the portal through which fourteen year old Adam meets Brid, a  girl from sixth century who is training as a Druid priestess.  But just as  Adam can enter the sixth century, Brid can enter the 20th, and there a 50  year nightmare begins for Adam and his loved ones.<br />This is quite  different from Barbara Erskine's other books, which basically follow the  theme of a fairly normal modern day person finding themselves transported  to another time. Here a dark entity comes into this time. 'On the Edge of  Darkness' explores some rather disturbing emotional problems.  Adam's  father is such a complete religious fanatic he drives away his wife, and  his son lives a sad, lonely and emotionally battered life. Brid forms such  an obsessive attachment to Adam that her jealousy knows no bounds. The  emotional void in which this leaves Adam's wife is dreadful. <br />If you are  a fan of stories of the past and present colliding, which I certainly am,  you could do a lot worse than reading this book.  On the way, you will get  to explore some dark areas of the human pysche - areas I would rather read  about than live through.	2000-06-03
US	50184762	R9Q1FP8I7812L	0312858493	375140639	Someplace to Be Flying	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Someplace I want to fly!	One of life's greatest pleasures (aside from Belgian chocolates, and these two are best indulged in together!) is tracking down, then opening a Charles de Lint book for the first time. Just reading the acknowledgements sets the scene for the feast of reading waiting and the eclectic quotes and lyrics preceding the story make me wish I had a better knowledge and appreciation of those sources. <br />When Hank's attempt to rescue Lily from a vicious attacker turns to disaster, the intervention of a pair of almost identical &quot;punky&quot; girls sees the attacker killed, Hank and Lily's injuries miraculously healed, and both of them curiously calm and undisturbed by the experience. But they both realise their home town has whole other layers that each had hardly glimpsed before.  Were Jack Daw's stories more than that? Separately and together, they peel back those layers to the very beginning, realising along the way that not everyone is as they seem and 'family' is not necessarily something you're born into.<br />Charles de Lint makes you believe in a world your rational mind never considered, but for which your soul secretly yearns.  His characters are so well defined that, no matter how unique their origins, you feel you would recognise them in a room of strangers. But with the Crow Girls, de Lint's genius for characterisation goes beyond excellence.  Try reading their dialogue aloud!<br />Don't plan on getting much sleep until you turn the last page.  Even then, the story might have been told, but the experience will go on.	2000-06-03
US	50184762	RO7GRELDBKXAV	0349112231	798437544	The Sleeper in the Sands	Books	5	16	16	N	N	What was the Curse of the Pharoahs?	I was drawn to this book by the cover, which features a representation of a statue of Akhenaten, perhaps the most intriguing and mysterious of the Egyptian pharoahs. Anyone who has ever read anything about Akhenaten will  understand what I mean. His unusual life and ambiguous demise have been the  basis of several novels (The Watch Gods by Barbara Woods, Pillar of Fire by  Judith Tarr, and others I can't remember the names of just now). For anyone  with a passing interest in this fascinating period of Ancient Egyptian  history, 'The Sleeper in the Sands' is a intruiging read, if only to get  this rather unusual dimension of the mystery.<br />'The Sleeper in the Sands'  has been described as &quot;combining the Curse of the Pharoahs, with  Indana Jones, a good measure of the Arabian Nights, a touch of Rider  Haggard and a hint of late Burroughs&quot; and I cannot argue with that  description. Like Indiana Jones and Rider Haggard's works, it is a 'ripping  yarn'. Like the Arabian Nights, it contains a story within a story within a  story.<br />Without giving too much away, it starts with Howard Carter's story  of his 30 year quest for the tomb of Tutankhamen and reveals the document  that spurred him on.  We then follow that writer's story, and so on, back  and forth through various eras of Egyptian history - medieval, Arab-ruled  Cairo, ancient Thebes - until the culmination we all know (it's no secret  the tomb was opened!)<br />Like other well written historically based fiction,  you find yourself believing this is what really happened. Some of it may  have. Even if it didn't, perhaps it could have. The well researched and  beautifully written journey through time on which Tom Holland leads us is  certainly rewarding.   This is the first book I've read by Tom Holland, and  it won't be the last.	2000-06-03
US	50184762	R9MF7IOMJOA0C	0553562827	119105660	Raptor	Books	4	58	58	N	N	Enjoy it for what it is	I must just add my words of praise to all those before for this absorbing, entertaining and often confronting book.  My friend Sue had long raved about Gary Jennings' writing, but I never indulged until she insisted I  read her copy of Raptor (five years later, I realise I haven't returned  it!).<br />Thorn is an unusual protagonist, and whether you love or hate  him/her, one you will not forget in a hurry.  Sometimes (and this is what  lost one star) I would find myself thinking &quot;Oh yeah? As if!&quot;  when Thorn got out of yet another scrap by demonstrating yet another skill.   Like so many main characters in novels of this type, Thorn is just a  little bit too amazing to be be entirely credible, and I found myself  wondering how Theodoric, an actual historical character, possibly managed  to rise to his greatness if Thorn was only a figment of Jennings'  imagination!<br />However, once you take the leap of faith to accept that  besides having ambiguous gender characteristics (although I always saw  Thorn as essentially male) and considered an incredibly handsome man and an  exceptionally beautiful woman, Thorn also had been endowed with superhuman  strength and endurance, a strategic brain to rival any chess master,  treachery, deviousness and guile second to none, survival skills and  instincts of a bushman, and loyalty only to himself and Theodoric, you find  yourself accepting the story for what it is, a competently written,  entertaining, absorbing work of fiction, that brought with it some  awareness of the past.<br />Like other reviewers, I was keen to find out more  about Theodoric, and was interested in how Jennings showed Vandals have  been vilified down through the ages.<br />The wonderful thing about good  writers is that they can effortlessly and completely transport you so far  in time and space, that returning to reality seems to be the really big  leap.  I was there, seeing, smelling, tasting everything.  If you enjoy  page-turning journeys into the distant past, off the top of my head I can  recommend Noah Gordon's 'The Physician', Wilbur Smith's 'River God',  Stephen Lawhead's 'Byzantium', and Judith Tarr's 'Pillar of Fire'.  Of  course, they all contain the occasional historical inaccuracies and  super-talented progagonists endemic in this genre, but when you're still  reading at 3am, who cares?	2000-04-07
US	50184762	R2RN0D6VRVWOI0	0825303109	750001907	Fielding Gray: A novel	Books	5	12	13	N	N	The entree to a literary feast!	The opening page of my hard cover copy of 'Fielding Gray' indicates it was the fourth book written in the Alms for Oblivion sequence, however, cronologically, it is the first.  It is actually the last book I read in  this sequence - I searched high and low for it for almost ten years, until  I found two copies within weeks of each other, one in a charity shop in my  old home town, where I hadn't lived for 20 years!<br />Fielding Gray,  priviliged, handsome, charming, talented, manipulative, debauched, corrupt  and a corrupter, emerged as the central and pivotal of the ten main  characters in the sequence, even though he didn't appear at all in the  first written book 'The Rich Pay Late' (cronologically fourth). He made a  memorable but minor appearance in the second written, 'Friends in Low  Places' (cronologically fifth), but became the undeniable star of the  sequence in the third written, 'Sabre Squadron' (cronologically third).  <br />'Fielding Gray' takes us back to where it all began - the summer term in  1945 at his public (in the UK, that means private) school begins with a  thanksgiving service after the war in Europe.  The acknowledged Golden Boy,  destined for a glittering academic career, Fielding Gray gradually loses  his innocence (via increasingly seedy sexual encounters) and is ultimately  responsible for a devestating sexual tragedy, as his originally projected  future slips away.  However, some of his schoolday liaisons and friendships  stay with him all his life.<br />The ten independent novels of the Alms for  Oblivion sequence take a ironically cynical poke at the English  upper-middle-class, involving academia, politics, journalism, the  aristocracy, the army, etc.  Disguised as bawdy tales of strange, often  indecent passions, populated by a curiously likable contingent of debauched  and corrupt characters, their associates and their victims, Simon Raven  writes the most deliciously enjoyable, stylish, funny and clever social  satire you willfind (excepting, perhaps, Robertson Davis).  Many of these  characters crop up in his non-sequence novels, 'The Roses of Picardie',  'September Castle', etc., and they raise the second generation in a further  sequence 'The First-born of Eqypt' (only seven novels this time!) <br />While  many of Simon Raven's most memorable characters are people you would  probably avoid having in your life, their tales provide vicarious  enjoyment, an addiction that once started must continue until the very last  word. <br />Even though I rarely re-read books, while researching this review  I've come to realise I must read them all again, starting tonight!	2000-04-07
US	50184762	R2O6694G85J1I7	0449214265	976980602	Physician	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Noah's gift	Noah Gordon has woven a tale of a young man with a special talent for healing, and we are the lucky people who are offered this treasure.  Born into squalid poverty in early 11th century London, Rob Cole's quest for  medical knowledge takes him, mainly by foot, to far-off Persia - I think  today's equivalent journey would be into space.<br />Gordon has avoided the  fake &quot;olde worlde&quot; dialogue and language anachronisms that have  caught out so many other writers of historical fiction, and which bring us  back into the 21st cenury with a jolt.  The result is an exquisitely  researched, wonderfully credible, beautifully readable, entirely involving  journey of the mind, body and soul.  I defy you to put it down until it  falls onto your face, when your eyes close with fatigue.  The best 20c (at  a hospital jumble sale) I've ever spent.<br />When your eyes have recovered,  continue the journey with 'The Shaman', but I found the third book very  disappointing and hackneyed after the elegance and beauty of 'The  Physician' and the raw, frontier adventure of 'The Shaman'.	2000-04-07
US	50184762	R2N3H7BUUCOG6A	0898799279	17052116	Elements of Fiction Writing - Characters & Viewpoint	Books	5	18	18	N	N	Discover Card's secrets!	I would read Orson Scott Card's shopping list if I could - I just devour his writing.  However, reading this book is much more profitable, even if you have no writing aspirations.  Written in 1988, when he'd only published a fraction of his incredible list of titles, you will see that he had the  whole writing game sorted out, even then.  Without credible, interesting  characters, possessing an understandable viewpoint, a novel is just a whole  bunch of words.  I find that I have reviewed some of my favourite Card  books (and others) since reading this, and gained a better insight into the  characters, their actions, and their thoughts.  Card certainly has proven  he knows what he's talking about - led by Alvin and Ender, Card has been  responsible for some of modern fiction's best loved characters. How  fortunate are we to have the great man share his secrets!	2000-04-03
US	50184762	RDPOYTUMIMZL4	0553564935	543210681	Magician: Master (Riftwar Saga, Book 2)	Books	5	20	24	N	N	First Midkemia, then the universe!	I bought a copy of the original Magician (with no embellishments) for $2 on a bargain table more than 15 years ago, simply for the magnificent  representation of a jewelled dragon on the cover (I've never seen that  edition again).  It sat on the shelf, unread for months.  After all, I was  far to logical and practical to want to get involved in reading fantasy  (even though I could appreciate an elegantly designed dragon).  But all  impulse book buyers suffer those times of &quot;all these books and nothing  to read&quot;, so I eventually picked it up.  I must admit for the first  few pages I wondered if I could really be bothered, but before I realised,  I was 30+ pages beyond the 20 page barrier (... if I can't get involved  within 20 pages, it gets tossed...) and realised I'd been transported - I  was there, in Crydee.  Then began the marathon reading sessions, including  about several Midkemia and Kelewan sequels.  Within a short time, I  progressed from fantasy to SF fantasy, straight on to &quot;hard core&quot;  sci-fi.  Me, who had previously never seen a purpose to speculative  fiction!  Suddenly I found I could open my mind to absorb all these  wonderful, imagined realms.  Even though I can take my sci-fi straight now,  I always remember I came to it via fantasy, and to a very large degree, I  have Feist to thank for that.<br />I lent the Magician out several times, but  it didn't return from the last lending.  So, when I was fortunate enough to  attend a book signing by Raymond E Feist in Melbourne many years ago, along  with the book he was flogging, I purchased another copy, personally  dedicated to me.  It has never been lent, and never will be.  For me, it is  one of &quot;those&quot; books; one that helped shape my reading habits.   <br />I don't know if the book signing was badly publicised or Melbourne only  contained about 10 Feist fans, but after our books were signed, along with  the other 9 or so who turned up, I was treated to a wonderful little  Q&amp;A time with this storyteller.  Those we admire often take on  larger-than-life proportions, and the generousity this quite ordinary bear  of a man showed his (disappointingly) small group of fans revealed a man of  impressive stature.<br />My reading tastes changed and I didn't read any Feist  for years, until a recent binge when I read from the Prince's Buccaneer  (which I'd owned, unread, for about six years!) up to date (from the  library) in about a month. (I was a bit sick of the endless highly detailed  battle scenes, but that was a small criticism - after all, most of it was  the SerpentWAR series!)  I slipped back into Midkemia (and the other worlds  - it doesn't stop at Kelwan!) like I'd never been away and picked up with  all my old friends and met new; grieving at Arutha's death and falling in  love with Calis along the way.<br />After browsing the reviews posted here, it  seems people either love the Magician or hate it.  Like a lot of other  books, you can easily pick it full of holes if you have particular areas of  expertise, or if you refuse to give yourself over to the fantasy (fantasy,  remember, is where anything can happen).  In the end, it's a just a story,  fortunately for us entertainingly told by an enthusiastic storyteller,  leaving you wanting more from the characters who somehow endear  themselves.<br />With all the thousands of books out there, I rarely reread,  and even with 15,000 extra words, haven't been compelled to read the  embellished version.  However, for the hours spent frantically turning  pages (sometimes all night), for introducing me to the realms of fantasy  via Midkemia and Kelewan, and through it, the infinite realms of sci-fi, I  can only rate this a 5-star book.	2000-04-03
US	50184762	R10EVSEBB3DGOF	0856340677	482767413	Roses of Picardie	Books	5	13	13	N	N	No hearts and flowers here!	I've been introduced to some of my favourite authors by picking up something &quot;on spec&quot; from a bargain table or bargain bookshop.  This was the book that introduced me to Simon Raven, some 17 years ago.  Twenty pages into it, I rushed back to the store in search of more titles  by him, and was introduced to the &quot;Alms for Oblivion&quot; series.<br />Getting back to &quot;The Roses of Picardie&quot;, I quickly found that  Raven's idea of a 'romance' was something quite different from what I  expected.  Just recently, I've read Clive Barker's &quot;Galilee: A  Romance&quot; and found that Barker has a similar understanding of what  constitues a 'romance' - nothing to do with Mills and Boon!  &quot;The  Roses of Picardie&quot; has hardly anything to do with hearts, and nothing  at all to do with flowers!<br />Raven takes the hunt for a relic, in this  case, a necklace called The Roses of Picardie (I love books featuring  relics claiming mystical powers or amazing history) and weaves a  deliciously wicked social satire of deceit, betrayal, ambition and cunning  plans, featuring some of the seedy, shady and immoral characters fleshed  out in the &quot;Alms for Oblivion&quot; series (but you don't need to have  read that).  His knowledge and understanding of history and legend combines  with his wonderfully drawn, slightly naughty (in some cases, downright  vile) characters in a way that will have you screaming with laughter one  moment, and turning up your nose in disgust the next - this can be said  about most of his books.<br />Have a dictionary nearby - Raven is not afraid  to show off his marvellous vocabulary.  With other authors I find this  precious, but Simon Raven uses exactly the right words (in the perfect  order) every time.  By the way, look up 'romance' in the dictionary while  you have it out, and you will find Raven (and Barker) has indeed written a  romance - a fictitious and wonderful tale.<br />If you liked &quot;Dance to  the Music of Time&quot;, and any of the other British social satires,  you'll love Simon Raven, and I think you'll love Robertson Davies as well.	2000-02-26
US	50184762	R1JE58Z8H9MQCN	0671704184	257613214	Weaveworld	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Never on my bookshelf	Ten years ago I picked up Weaveworld in a bargain bookshop - one page had been misprinted - just because it looked like it might be something different.  Working as an office temporary with nothing to do but answer  the occassional phone call, I started to read it at work, and from the  moment I opened it, I was transported. It was one of those books that I  will always remember, and it is never on my bookself, because I'm always  lending it to potentially new Clive Barker fans. Just open your mind to  what could be .... you could do a lot worse.	2000-01-25
