US	50197051	R3DBFPHBQDJFRK	0743202414	73196434	A Primate's Memoir: A Neuroscientist's Unconventional Life Among the Baboons	Books	3	14	23	N	N	More Baboons Please	A Primate's Memoir is an interesting coming of Age story with a twist, it last for about 21 years.  In it we learn about the customs of some of the African tribes, the naivety of a young doctor, and the universality of some human folies.  It is written in a clear style by a man with a good sense of humor which he frequently shares with the reader. <br /> <br />In between adventures of the author, we also learn about life among African baboons and the effects of stress on disease. I would have liked more baboons. I never knew that baboons would \\"join forces\\" to overthrown a tyrant or have sex with an unwilling female.   <br /> <br />I also learned that some female baboons have preference amongs the men.  Unfortunately, there usually is a strict pecking order.  Some of the clever females will try to get the higher baboons to fight so that the female can be with the baboon of her choice. <br /> <br />The more I learned about these clever baboons, the more I wanted to know.  Unfortunately, too often the next chapter would be about another of the author's experiences with Africa life.  Good in and of themselves, they took away from the drama that is a baboon's life. More baboon and less of the author's life  would have made this a great book.  As it is, it is still interesting, just too short on the baboons. <br />	2005-06-17
US	50197051	R90N4H89BLVI0	0140258795	803603230	Longitude: The True Story of a Lone Genius Who Solved the Greatest Scientific Problem of His Time	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Amazing Research.	Who would have thought the story of Longitude could be so interesting?  To be accurate, this is the story of the invention of a tool to measure longitude accurately - oftentimes, literally, a life or death proposition in the early 18th Century.   Life or death because ships, unsure of their position, would crash into reefs.  Other ships would literally have sailors on board dying of disease or dehydration, because the captains did not know where they were, and where, more importantly, local islands or land masses could be found.<br />After a particular gruesome tragedy off the Coast of England, which could have been avoided if the Captain could have measured Longitude correctly, a reward was issued by Parliament for anyone who could develop a tool to perform this task   A special committee was set up to review ideas and suggestions about how this task could be completed.  And while there were many attempts, few of them had merit.   <br />Most scholars had concluded that only a map of the stars could solve this problem, if one could be accurately drawn.  On land, these maps could be drawn. On the oceans, accurate maps were hard to draw, were inaccurate, and, for the most part, of little value.  Most scholars thus concluded that the secrets of Longitude, on the oceans, could not be solved.  Perhaps that is why a \\"common\\" working man, albeit a  skilled laborer, had to solve this problem.  His name was John Harrison.<br />John Harrison, a clock maker, was able to do something that no one else in the world could do.<BR>He applied for the grant, and was awarded a partial prize.  But this was not the end of the story.  Instead of adopting his proven technology, petty rivalry, jealously, and (most likely) class snobbery delayed the adoption of his clocks for sixty years.  Ironically, the King himself, got involved in the struggle, on the side of John Harrison.<br />Longitude is a story of science and history.  It is also part detective story.  It is filled with passion andamazing details about the time and the people surrounding this story.  Written with an elegant and poetic flair, it is a beautiful trip to another time and place.  Dava Sobel has done a wonderful job.  <br />The only problem I had, which was small, is as this book switches from a novel about finding a solution to Longitude to a novel about the struggle to have Harrison find recognized, the story dragged on a little bit too long and the focus definitely changed.  I enjoyed  the science sections better.  A small criticism, but a fair warning.   Overall, however, Longitude is a quick read and I highly recommend it.   Enjoy.	2002-03-16
US	50197051	R3BM3CN1DCDINX	0140280553	654799136	Galileo's Daughter: A Historical Memoir of Science, Faith, and Love	Books	4	6	6	N	N	A Journey to a Different Time, A Different World.	Galileo lived in a different time, really in a different world.   And to understand what Galileo did, and didn't do, Sobel transports us back into this reality so we can appreciate the magnificence of his accomplishments and his failures. Italy was a country in name only.  The plague was a natural and common occurrence, not a historical footnote.  The Roman Catholic Church still banned books, held inquisitions, and occupied significant political power.  And people, lived, and died, on the whim of a disgruntled Doge, a proud Prince, or a remote Emperor. <br />As a practical matter, this meant that hundreds of people, during outbreaks of the plague, died randomly in the streets.  Bodies were burnt, if the authorities got to them before family or friends tried to provide a proper Christian burial.  If the authorities were too late to stop the first burial, they usually were able to burn the family member who would die of plague later, with no one left to bury them.  In the grim alternative that they caught the families burying the dead, those caught could be tortured as an example to others.  <br />\\"Out of necessity\\" professors would will \\"their own mortal remains to the university, to save the anatomist the bother of pillaging the hospitals or begging the bodies for criminals condemned to hang.\\"  (p173)   Even so, dissections and autopsies were illegal, as the human body was sacred and cutting it up would be cutting up a work of God.<br />Legal travel between different regions in Italy could only occur, if one had proper papers and permission to do so. New ideas, especially in books,  had to be \\"screened\\" by the inquisition to make sure that they did not contradict Church doctrine, even as International and religious rivalry made new ideas from other countries highly suspect.  Combined with the high mortality rates of this time, as a practical matter this meant years of waiting before new discoveries could officially be promulgated. <br />Enter Galileo.  A devout Catholic and a faithful follower of the Church. Galileo was inspired by  another Catholic, Copernicus, who published his own works on his deathbed.   Galileo, in the Medieval world of 17th Century Italy, would lay the foundations for the modern world which we live today. Given the strange world and horrible handicaps (political and religious) that he endured, and Galileo's accomplishments become even more dramatic.  <br />Sobel explains all of the above, and more.  We also learn about Galileo's relationship with his son and his daughters.  His daughters, in particular, are often mentioned as we learn in detail about convent life (they were both nuns) of this time and age. We also learn about his financial problems, and successes, his relationships with the Pope and bishops, and somewhat about the history of his father's successes and failures as well.  <br />At the same time, Sobel explains the state of science, before and after Galileo, while explaining some of his concepts and discoveries (including his errors).   My only criticisms, if any, of this book are the details at this point in the story.  Starting off as a social history of the man and his times, the book becomes a little bogged down with the science and its explanations.  Given the scope of its content, however, this is a minor criticism - at best.  This book saught to explain Galileo and his times, and it suceeded.  Well written, with a poetic flair, Galileo's Daughter, should be enjoyable to any historical intellectual.	2002-03-10
US	50197051	R2BB926YHZ6RCZ	0671876996	571919868	Forever After	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Good Fun.	To my knowledge this is the last work of Roger Zelanzny probably best  known for his  \\"Amber\\" series.    To the end he was a great writer and I am sure that anyone who has read his work will regret the fact that no new masterpieces will be coming.   I am glad, however, that he finished as he started - working on a fun book which any fantasy readers should enjoy.<br />\\"Forever After,\\" is a fantasy story which is reportedly about what happens after the villain is defeated.  What happens after the hero and heroine live \\"happily ever after?\\"  Here some of the closest friends and companions of the hero Rango, soon to be King, are sent on four separate quests to hide the magic tools needed to win the war, but which now, by being so close together, disrupt reality and threaten the kingdom itself. <br />Each quest is written was by a different author.  They include Michael Stackpole, David Drake, Robert Lynn Aspirin and Jane Lindskold.  The prefaces, interlude and postlude are written by Roger Zelazny.  Remarkably, the quality of most of the stories is very high.  I especially enjoyed reading Robert Aspin, one of the funniest fantasy writers around,  (Remember Skeeve?)   telling  the story of a noble knight and a dragon, from the dragon's perspective.   <br />Stackpole's story, about a gloomy assassin  heart sick over a woman general who has rejected him, burdened by a fat, but well meaning servant, and searching for his father's killer, his former master, was outstanding. In the end, my discovery of Mr. Stackpole, probably was the best thing about reading this book.  He is a superb writer and I look forward to reading his other work in the future.<br />It is fitting  that \\"Forever After's\\" theme, that life continues even after the story is over, was Zelanzy's last work.  Life does go on.  But, if it does, does that mean we can't stop and say thank you to someone who entertained so much and so well over the years?  Thanks and good bye  Mr. Zelazny.  I hope the afterlife appreciates you as much as your fans down here do.	2001-07-15
US	50197051	R2FJ3CUKHYNABS	0345348109	227222206	The Killer Angels: The Classic Novel of the Civil War (Civil War Trilogy)	Books	4	5	6	N	N	The Killer Angels	This story is a fictional version of Gettysburg based on the writer's imagination of what critical characters would have thought and done during this battle.   As the work is based on the writings and reports of the battle by its participants, it is easy to forget that large parts of the \\"Killer Angels\\" are untrue.  Instead, as you read this story, you will be transported back to the fields of Gettysburg where, when you are done, you will remember the battle as if you were there yourself.<br />\\"The Killer Angels\\" is especially good at showing the chaos of war and the impact and effect of individual solders on a battle fought by over 200,000 men.   While both sides had its heros and villains, a few in particular stick out after reading this story.   <br />Burford, an unknown commander, seized the high ground on the first day of this battle.  His men alone and unsure if aid would arrive, saved the best ground for the Union.  <br />Yet later General Sickles, a Union commander, abandoned a position on top of a hill, Little Roundtop, because for some strange reason he didn't like it.  <br />But for the actions of a little known Colonel named Chamberlain, the Union may have been flanked on the second day of the battle.   <br />Newly appointed General Meade, for that matter, incredibly wanted to abandon this beautiful position after the second day.  Only when all of his commanders disagreed, in writing, would he agree to stay.    <br />Jeb Stuart, a calvary general, was missing during the critical first few days of battle.    As such, the South did not know what forces they were facing, where they were, or where the best terrain was.  Their earlier efforts were gravely hampered by this ignorance. <br />Incredibly the author, deftly, attacks the legendary General Lee.  Lee was warned, repeatedly, by Longstreet that they South could flank the Union.  Lee refused, however, to alter his battle plans.  Later Lee was warned not to have Pickett's men cross of a mile of land underthe barrage of Union cannons and devastating rifle fire.   He made his decision, put it in God's hands, and watched as an army, his army, was destroyed before his eyes. To his credit Lee does later admit his errors.<br />In its 36th printing, this book has been popular since its release in 1968.  If you have any interest in the Civil War or Military History, I think you will enjoy this novel as you witness human courage, loyality and honor under the most extreme circumstance possible, the fires of perhaps the most important battle in the Civil War.	2001-06-06
US	50197051	RQDULWV0XUFSG	0140442863	283765493	The Age of Alexander: Nine Greek Lives (Penguin Classics, L286)	Books	3	14	19	N	N	Great Greeks in History	&quot;The Age of Alexander&quot; was not the original title of this book.  Instead the editors have taken liberty with the title for marketing purposes.  &quot;The Age of Alexander&quot; is actually a biography of 9 famous kings and generals from Agesilaus to Pyrrhus with Alexander as one of the nine.  This isn't an attack on the title or this or this work, but it is a more honest description.<br />In addition to the people I have already mentioned, this book also talks about the lives of Pelopidas, Dion, Demosthenes, Phocion, and Demetrius.  I had heard many of these names for years, but I had no idea of what they had done.  Others I never knew.  It is interesting how history classes often have such narrow focuses.  Why do we study the Peloponnesian War, but not its outcome?<br />Here, students of history will have the chance to examine parts and people of the past, rarely discussed in other places.  The writing style is a little tough.  Remember, this is an English translation of a Roman work examining Greek citizen who lived three hundred or more years before it was written.  However, if you can get past the writing, you can learn alot.<br />The rough history of who killed who and which state thrived while others died were not very interesting to me.  It is hard to get excited about a civilation that was wiped out 3000 years ago.  What I enjoyed more were the personal stories and the glimpse into Greek life.  I will give three examples.<br />Pelopidas had a mortal enemy, Alexander.  He was considered a tyrant and a murderer.  Alexander had his enemies stripped naked and forced them to rare animal skins.  He then would release hunting dogs on them as a form of fun/execution.<br />In Persia, citizens would make a gesture of respect to their King.  In Greece, they would only make this gesture to the Gods. Thus Alexander the Great, if he wanted to be considered the &quot;legitimate&quot; ruler of the Persian would have to have them do something, this gesture, which made him look like he believed he was a God, to the Greeks.  <br />&quot;On noble subjects all men speak well.&quot;  A quote found in this book.  It was ascribed to Euripides but was quoted by Alexander when talking to Callisthenes, an advisor who eventually was put to death.<br />If you like insights and stories like this, &quot;The Age of Alexander&quot; is a great source.  The editors do a very good job of discribing the customs and morals of the time.  For me, actually, part of this was not necessary.  I enjoyed this book, in part, because I could see how humans, in many ways have not changed.   Perhaps, in part, that is why a book popular 2000 thousand years ago, can still be enjoyed today.  Not a page turner, it is interesting if you have to time to study it.	2001-04-10
US	50197051	R2VPAQ6CYUZRO1	0970186908	869241327	Teach Me to Solo : The Nuts and Bolts of Law Practice	Books	3	51	53	N	N	You Can't Fly, if Your Stuck on the Ground	Hal Davis joins Jay Foonsberg in a very narrow publishing field -giving advice to new attorneys, or old ones trying to go into practice for themselves.  In &quot;Teach Me to Solo&quot; Mr. Davis talks about his experiences in the legal field and about some things other attorneys can do to make the transition a little easier.<br />The advice isn't in depth, but he does a fair job of covering some of the basic issues new attorneys may face.  \\"Teach Me to Solo&quot; starts with a  pep talk in the first chapter called &quot;You can do it.\\"  I always liked Henry Ford, in this regard, who said \\"Whether you think that you can, or that you can't, you are usually right. &quot; In other words, you are your biggest asset, or liability, in your quest for success. Still, a pep talk can't hurt.<br />Davis then goes on to discuss his advertising experiences, how you can get new clients, and everything else from font types for letters to whether you should buy or lease furniture. The beginning of this book shows some promise, but then Mr. Davis meanders and spends too much time on what I would consider &quot;fluff&quot; issues.<br />For example, in Chapter 7 he talks about your &quot;Image&quot; as an attorney.  I can condense it.  You need to take pride in your appearance and your work.  If you look like a bum, why should I pay you $200 dollars an hour to work for me?  The same hold true for how your office appears, your letters to others, and your business cards. In my opinion, if you don't already know these things, you are not going to make it as an attorney.<br />The key issues, for young attorneys, are new clients and \\"covering the nut,\\" a term used to signifying being able to pay your monthly expenses.  In this regard, I would give attorneys here the same advice I give them in person, \\"read business books.\\"  As an attorney you have the same problems as any other  business person with extra restrictions imposed on you by the bar.  If you read what has worked in other businesses, you can get a better idea what may work for you.<br />I would also advise you to make sure that your practice as least one \\"cash field.\\"  For example, on criminal cases the smart attorney always gets paid in advance.  Who can pay bills from behind bars?  Other fields, for example, personal injury, are usually done on a contingency basis.  You can take some of these cases, but you won't get paid for six months to two or three years.  Since you need to pay your bills now, you have to have a good mix.<br />Advise like this, more practical in my view, is missing from this book.  To be fair, Mr. Davis does discuss some of these issues.  I just didn't think he went into enough depth.  His chapter on financing is one page and says to use credit cards or stay at your day job until you are making enough money.  Do you really need to buy a book for that? Also, since I mentioned  Mr. Foonsberg, I would have to say that, if you own his book, you don't need this one.  The reverse applies as well.  For the most part both of these books cover the same areas and, remarkably, in a very similiar fashion.  So, if you are short on money, don't buy both of them.  One or the other, however, may prove useful.  Good luck.usinesses, you can get a better idea what may work for you.<br />I would also advise you to make sure that your practice as least one \\"cash field.\\"  For example, on criminal cases the smart attorney always gets paid in advance.  Who can pay bills from behind bars?  Other fields, for example, personal injury, are usually done on a contingency basis.  You can take some of these cases, but you won't get paid for six months to two or three years.  Since you need to pay your bills now, you have to have a good mix.<br />Advise like this, more practical in my view, is missing from this book.  To be fair, Mr. Davis does discuss some of these issues.  I just didn't think he went into enough depth.  His chapter on financing is one page and says to use credit cards or stay at your day job until you are making enough money.  Do you really need to buy a book for that? Also, since I mentioned  Mr. Foonsberg, I would have to say that, if you own his book, you don't need this one.  The reverse applies as well.  For the most part both of these books cover the same areas and, remarkably, in a very similiar fashion.  So, if you are short on money, don't buy both of them.  One or the other, however, may prove useful.  Good luck.	2001-03-25
US	50197051	RJFNSCYYZE485	0517223651	879257691	Gray's Anatomy: The Classic Collector's Edition	Books	5	61	65	N	N	As good as you have heard.	Gray's Anatomy is a &quot;classic&quot; book on Anatomy.  Unusual for a classic, it is everything you have heard.  The drawings are beautiful, accurate, and interesting.  At the same time, this book was a standard text for Anatomy since 1901.  As such, the drawing are only part of this book. The book's main effort is to explanation human anatomy.  It does so wonderfully and clearly, with words.  The drawings are only there to help with the text's explanations.<br />A quick warning.  Since this book has been around since before 1901, there are many, many different versions.  Make sure you check the printing date of the one you buy.  The human body has not changed since this first editions, but our access to it has.  As such, while some of the earlier books are beautiful to look at, the later editions are more valuable as a reference tool.	2001-03-09
US	50197051	R2P4LJ0IWLC6MU	0517265745	107304490	Word Origins: An Exploration and History of Words and Language	Books	5	157	160	N	N	Every Word has a Story	A lot of hard work and passion went into this book, and it shows.  Mr. Funk has written a classic book on word origins which is fun for any scrabble lover, scholar, or souled individual.  <br />Arranged into topics from business to war to flowers, the author explains the most likely origins behind everyday words and expressions.  &quot;Laconic,\\" for example, means brief and blunt. Its origins, more than 2600 years ago, take it back to the Greek Wars.  The Laconians, when told by an ambassador that &quot;if we come to your city we will raze the walls and kill everyone.&quot;  The Laconians reply?  &quot;If.&quot; <br />Or take the origins of the word &quot;bread.&quot;  Originally it meant a piece.  With time, it came to mean the whole loaf. By reading through &quot;word origins&quot; you will learn that many words were named after people or places.  Other words are corruptions of other languages.  Some words are simple &quot;borrowed&quot; from other languages.  (called &quot;loan words,&quot; but who gives them back?)  Some other words have origins lost in time. I enjoyed reading \\"Word Origins\\" and go back to it, again and again, when I am curious about a word or phrase.  If you have any interest in this area, you should enjoy this book.  Well done, a good read.	2001-03-03
US	50197051	R2CCMORIWEYLDF	1558219668	221926087	The Scientific American Book of Astronomy	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Good but....	This book is a collection of articles from different people over the last five years.  How much you like any article may depend on how interested you are in that topic and how well the author presents it.  Since all of them, however, are tied together by Scientific America, I would have expected a more consistent style.  <br />Unfortunately the editors do not seem to have much control of the writer's style.  So, some of the article were very clear, others were not written as well.  It really is hit or miss in this book.  There are some really good articles and some that don't quite make the grade.  My two favorites were about the Kupiter Belt and the Oort Cloud.  <br />The Kupiter belt is a colletion of rocks, really, beyond Pluto. Indeed, Pluto appears to be the largest of these planetoids on the fringes of our solar system.  That is why you may have heard that some scientists don't think Pluto desires &quot;planet status.&quot;  <br />Further out, about 1/5 of a light year, is the Oort Cloud which contains the true leftovers of our solar system.  The Oort Cloud is believe to be the source of comets.  Comets are relatively &quot;new&quot; and have to come from somewhere because they lose mass every time they come near the sun.  My very favorite was the theory that all the water on Earth came from comets because, when the Earth was formed, all the water was burned off of it while the ground was molten.  Indeed, the moon might have stuck the Earth during this time and then stayed as it was caught it the Earth's gravity.<br />Again, overall, this book was fun.  Written for the masses, but with enough scientific details to satisfy most people with some background in the field.  Probably a better bargain, though, if it comes out in paperback.	2001-01-25
US	50197051	R30EPAMWTWC7VO	0345425871	414657510	Reading People: How to Understand People and Predict Their Behavior- -Anytime, Anyplace	Books	2	204	232	N	N	Overstated Thesis, Dry Book.	This books say it can show you &quot;how to understand people and predict their behavior anytime, anyplace.&quot;  Can you imagine how useful a book like this could, if it were true? Unfortunately, there are no &quot;secret tips&quot; which can &quot;change your life&quot; forever. (This is a quote on the front of the book.)  What this book does have are the theories of the writers which include some interesting observations based on their experiences.  In science, we call this arguing by analogy.  One experience, or three, doesn't make a theory true it just makes it interesting.  There are some good tips here.  Overall, however, the writing is so stilted and arrogant that whatever you might learn is may not be worth the read.<br />To begin with the writers preach a seven point approach to &quot;reading people.&quot;   This first thing this approach says is that you need to &quot;spend more time with people&quot; to understand them. It is almost as if this was an instruction manuel for aliens.  The writer then give six more points to be discussed in the book.  The very next paragraph, however, talks about something different.  Sorta of an introduction to why the authors wrote the book. Writing like this, found throughout the book, can make it hard to follow.  It is unfortunate because the back cover of this book has all sorts of interesting and promising topics.  &quot;What message are you sending with your hairstyle?&quot; or &quot;What does a man's shoes say about the way he will behavior in your meeting?&quot;  If the author had a chapter based on each of these questions, the book would have been more interesting.<br />Instead, the author takes everything baby-step by baby-step.  It was slow, and a little insulting.  Applying the techniques taught in &quot;Reading People&quot; I could have predicted this result just from some of the comments found in its introduction where the author states she &quot;endured the world's scrunity, and often its harsh criticisim, because I helped select the jury that acquitted O.J. Simpson.&quot; Hmm.  I never know that this person helped select the O.J. jury.  Do you think that is why he was acquitted?  To be fair, who is on the jury always plays a big role in any trial.  But the author never explains who she rejected from the jury or how that made a difference.  So in this statement, while she appears to be acting modest, she is actually crowing about one of her achievements.  One that might be very interesting, if she detailed how she did it in this book.  She does not.<br />There are some interesting tips here.  The best one, I think, is that people are usually consistent in their behavior.  If they appear to be inconsistant, they may be in crisis, or you may be looking at the wrong clues.  With such information, we can answer the questions I talked about above.  If a person has very clean, sparking shoes, he is more likely to be a good worker, attentive to details, then one whose shoes are dirty.  If a person has a mohawk hair style for example, you may be more likely to hire them at you business, if you want someone who is creative and unconvential. <br />Do you need a book, do you need this book, to know this? I would say, probably not.  If you are still interested in this topic, , there is a much better book out there by Mike Caro. It is about playing poker, but he teaches and demonstrates the same principles found here. If you know anything about poker, his book was a much more interesting read.  It wasn't great either, but it was a good read.	2001-01-21
US	50197051	R17R7T9PKAAQIX	0671724002	183607890	The Quick and Easy Way to Effective Speaking	Books	4	197	202	N	N	Easy to Understand, A bit more difficult to master.	This book has 14 chapters of examples and insight into public speeching. The author, who taught public speaking at seminars for 40 years, has learned alot and communicates his ideals well in written form.  I really envy those who had a chance to listen to his public speeches. That is the weakest part of this book, which the author admits.  It doesn't matter how much you read about speaking, you have to go out and do it, or you can't get better.  <br />With that noted, this book does a great job at describing the speaking process.  It starts by reviewing &quot;the basics&quot; and then divides his book into the special potential needs of its readers.  At its core, this book tries to address the fears of its readers.  It appear that public speaking strikes fear into more people, then anything else.  If you are scared, you can't think well or express yourself clearly.  Thus, if you can conquer your fear, you are on your way to giving a great speech.<br />&quot;Quick&quot; discusses three things to do.  First, be prepared.  You can't talk intelligently about any topic, if you don't understand it.  Second, try to speak to your interests.  The more you care about something, the more interesting will be your speech.  Third, remember your audience.  Even if you love __________  (fill in the blank), you need to understand that your audience may not.  Since, no speech is effective if you lose your  audience, you have to remember their needs.<br />The other thing &quot;Quick&quot; does is give you good tips.  Don't try to use them all at once.  My advise, pick the one, or two you like the best and work on them.  Once you perfect them, or decide you don't like them, try something else.  For example, I like &quot;Quick's&quot; suggestions of using names when you tell a story.  &quot;Imagine a hero with no name&quot; who would remember him?  Well, if you want to use an example with people, give them names, it makes it easier for your audience to relate to them.<br />This is thisbook's strongest foundation, the colorful examples and the author ability to relate to his readers through them.  He quotes famous people like Lincoln and Julius Ceaser repeatedly.  He also cites more ordinary people to show how real people have good insights into life.  <br />Overall, the examples and the organization are interesting and add to its strength.  &quot;Quick&quot; is a good book, a good &quot;primer&quot; for new speakers.  I don't think more experienced speakers will enjoy it as much, but there is enough here to please most people who want to improve their speaking skill, novice or expert.	2001-01-02
US	50197051	RJA1ZCCFJT3QU	0553293370	834333861	Foundation and Empire	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Classic.  A good as &quot;Foundation&quot;	Foundation and Empire is the second book in this series.  If you have not read the first one yet, you should.  Still, because of the rare and very clear writing found here, you can read this book and never be confused.  Since both books are so good, why skip the first one?<br />In this book, we return to the future.  A small empire, the Foundation, is on the edges of a greater one.  The &quot;Empire&quot; currently encompasses thousands of worlds.  Still, compared to its past, it has been shrinking.  One of its most able generals, aware that the Empire is less then it once was, decides to expand the Empire.  Unfortunately for the Foundation, he has choosen the systems occured by it, as the best direction for his expansion.<br />Like the first installation, this book continually talks about the &quot;inevitable&quot; victory of the Foundation.  Since they are being systematically destroyed by the Empire, such predictions ring hollow.  How the book solves this problem seems to make sense.  But this war is only the prelude for a greater conflict - a Civil War in the Foundation itself.<br />Here is a really interesting dilemena.  Since the Foundation is &quot;fated&quot; to survive, what will happen if it wars with itself?  And, to make things more interesting, a third party joins the conflict.  This mysterious entity, the &quot;Mule&quot;, leads forces that beats both foundations back.  What is happening here?<br />Again, like the first book in this series, Foundation and Empire is as much a mystery story, as science fiction.  How the author solves these problems are great fun.  The ending, actually the middle of the book, is a great surprise on your first read.  What happens afterwards, and the new developments, make for a great twist to this story and a powerful new development in this series.  A great story.  It is great fun and easily as enjoyable as the first book which, on its own, was a classic.  Read and enjoy.	2000-12-15
US	50197051	R2CNL0VFDG4FRB	0385423756	719500585	On the Origins of War: And the Preservation of Peace	Books	4	13	17	N	N	Insightful and Interesting	In, On the Origins of War, Donald Kagan both (1) makes a case study of the causes of Ancient Conficts, and more modern ones, and (2) gives his suggestions on how they could have been avoided.  These Wars include the Punic Wars and WWII, the Peloponisian War and WWI, and the Cuban Missile Crisis.   <br />After the first war between Rome and Carthage, the Carthigians were given a free hand in Spain upto the Ebro River.  When Rome noticed that Carthage was building a mighty army there, Rome gave advance notice that it would probably break its treaty with them, sent a group of ambassadors that insulted Hannibal, but failed to send troops to awe or suppress them.  <br />Hannibal reacted by laying siege to an allied city.  Rome, who could have reacted and attacked Hannibal in Spain, did nothing.   For almost nine months, Hannibal lay siege to this city.  Once his siege was successful, Hannibal turned his eyes, and his elephants, towards Rome.  The second Punic Wars had begun.<br />After the first World War, the allies forced Germany to sign a treaty which blamed the entire war on them.  The Germans were also forced to pay hugely disproportionate reparations, dismember their country, essentially disband their own army, and watch their ally Austria-Hungry be sliced into several new nations. Then, after doing almost everything possible to embitter the Germans, the allies disarmed. Slowly at first, but almost continually until WWII broke out, the Germans rearmed themselves.  <br />Hitler accelerated this pace, but he essentially continued the policies of his predecessors.  Like Hannibal before him, Hitler then began to attack allies or potential allies of his rival.  Hitler attack on Poland, which started WWII, was only attacked after Austria has been &quot;rejoined&quot; with Germany and Czechoslovakia had been conquered.<br />Thus both the Romans and the Allies had been given advance notice that an enemy may be preparing to fight.   Rome was given nine months, the Allies were given, at least, six years.  Neither, however, seemed to recognize the threat which was coming.  In Rome's case, part of this ignorance may have been due to overconfidence after winning the prior conflict.  For the Allies, much of their ignorance was based on their horror over the results of the last war combined with an underappreciation for the anger which was swelling in Germany.<br />Now, could either of these wars have been avoided?  Kagan seems to think so.  He describes the different times and ways both wars could have be prevented.  I tend to disagree, in part.  My disagreement stems from the unexpected.  Kagan, in part, states that if you insult a rival or opponent, you should be prepared for a reaction.  However, people plan for things in the future, based on what happened in the past.  This is why we study history.  <br />Hannibal acted and fought in ways that were almost unheard of during that time.  How could the Romans expect Hannibal to cross the Alps with his elephants, when nothing quite like that had occurred in the past.  Hitler, as well, acted much more quickly then anyone at that time thought was possible.  His own generals were ready to begin a coup starting from the &quot;Sudenland&quot; crisis to the invasion of Austria.  <br />Still, agree or not, this book is interesting and insightful.  The other sections, dealing with WWI, are also very well done.   Personally, I didn't like the Cuban Missile Crisis section, but it was only a small part of the book.  Overall, this book is very, very good.  For those who question why we should study history, please read this book.  For those of you who already enjoy history, &quot;Origins of War&quot; is a good addition to your library.	2000-12-14
US	50197051	R2AOTHSQG3WVDM	0394562852	800950828	The Civil War: An Illustrated History	Books	5	73	77	N	N	Epic	The Civil War is probably the best book I have ever read and read and read.  I originally bought this book over 10 years ago.  I have recently re-read it again for the fourth or fifth time and the writing is still fresh, the story still gripping, and the photographs found and used, still riveting.  It is simply one of the best if not best American History book produced. Why is it so good?  I wish I knew, because then I would be writting books, instead of these reviews.  <br />I can tell you what I liked.  First, the story telling was beautiful.  By &quot;story telling&quot;, I could say editing.  Anytime a writer writes, fiction or fact, he or she must choice what they put in, and what they do not.  To often, especially with history stories, authors try to overwhelm us with details.  Here the authors have choosen the best details, and deleted the rest.  <br />Second, how the authors write, is superb.  They have a great sense of irony.  Describing Gettysberg, they describe the worst battle in American History as a battle begun over shoes. Better still, they go on to show it.  Now must historians probably wouldn't know or care that this battle may have started over shoes, but these authors know that (1) it is interesting and (2) it also shows that the southern soliders, who needed the shoes, were short on supplies.   The authors could have just said that at the time of Gettysberg that the South were short on supplies, but the way they wrote about it here, it was much more interesting.<br />Finally, this book has a great caste, if you will. In this book the authors have five historians who contribute to the story telling.  Each historian brings in their perspective and each perspective is different.   The combination, however, is stronger then the individual parts.  I don't know why the authors chose these historians over others, but it was a good choice.<br />In short, a great book.  The only history book I know, which compares in readability, is &quot;The Guns of August.&quot;  Since that book is better known, many people may skip over this one.  Don't.  This book should be bought, read, enjoyed, saved, and the re-read again, and re-enjoyed again at future dates.  Bravo.	2000-12-05
US	50197051	R3281OV4KDXM2H	039303531X	390044281	How Great Generals Win	Books	4	10	12	N	N	Enjoyable Beginning Book for Military Strategy and History	This book takes the reader through time and history as the author describes why certain generals won, or lost their wars.  In particular, the author tries to show how certain techniques or tactics used from Ancient Rome to Genghis Khan to Napoleon are still applicable today in the modern world.   Indeed, when these tactics are not used, in Korean for example, the author reveals how he feels the generals have let down their men; and their country.<br />As a primer, this book is good.  The author has a good grasp on basic tactics and very interesting facts about history.  For example, when fighting armies who have elephants, the Romans had bells with them which they would shake, scarring the beasts and making them useless for the battle.<br />As I said, overall this book, as a basic guide, is very good.  It is not for those who have a solid background in this area already.  For me, though, it was very interesting.  I particularlly like the earlier chapters.  In my view, as the booked came closer to present times, the author's emotions and personal feelings made him less objective.  This took away somewhat, from his conclusions but, overall, the book was still a fun read.	2000-12-03
US	50197051	R3JH4HO2X4R3WM	0345388852	979772647	The Giants Novels (Inherit the Stars, The Gentle Giants of Ganymede, and Giants' Star)	Books	5	13	14	N	N	Three Great Books In One	Inherit the Stars starts on the moon sometime in the near future when astronauts find a dead body human body 1000's of years old.  How did it get there?  How could it be there?  No one knows.  <br />The writer then procedes, step by step, to explain how this could have happened.  His science is so strong that, if I read this a few years in the future, I might believe it was actually happening.  While the end of the book takes a few leaps of faith, (pun is intended), it all seems amazing real.  It is a fun adventure written in the best traditions of science fiction.<br />The second book here, there are three in one combined in this book, is also great.  It is a story about our first contact with creatures from another planet.  Because these creatures had such a different evolutionary path from us, they are as much different, intellectually, as in their appearance.  <br />The big difference in this story, as opposed to most science fiction, is how nice these aliens are.  Earth falls in love with them and you will too.  The writing, extremely optimistic about human nature, was a nice change of pace from most books of the genre.  Since the violence here is at a minimum, the author uses a few interesting mysteries, unresolved from the first book, to maintain the series pace and tension.<br />The final installment in this series was fun too, but it took a different tact.  The optimism expressed so nicely in the first two books is lost here.  This world has government conspiracies and aggressive alien races.  Violence, or its threat, is finally found in the series.  <br />The science, as well, is a little closer to fantasy then science fiction.  The first book &quot;could&quot; happen, at least it seems that way.  The second story is a fantasy, but its discussions about evolution was great.  The last book would be good anywhere, it jsut didn't fit in very well with the series.  All are good though.  All of them are worth reading.	2000-12-01
US	50197051	R3203QJD6HNNIO	0449906973	863596278	Instant Physics: From Aristotle to Einstein, and Beyond	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Physics That Are Fun	I don't understand physics very well.  After reading this book, I think I understand physics better.  It can be a difficult topic and Mr. Rothman's presentation was very clear, easy to follow, and fun.  He has a good sense of humor which moves the book along and makes it much more enjoyable to read.<br />In particular, in Instant Physics, Mr. Rothman covers a history of physics from the Ancient Greeks to the Modern World.  In Greece, Mr. Rothman details the mistakes they made, and the great breakthroughs.  He also takes the time to explain a little bit about the people who made these breakthroughs, and the events around them.  Basically the world we come from influences how we view the Universe.  Without changes in our world, many of the changes and advances in physics would not have happened.   Mr. Rothman has written a good book, which explains physics well.	2000-11-30
US	50197051	R1ZUQU4B4N44BA	0306806541	718801342	Hannibal	Books	4	5	7	N	N	Solid History and Good Writing	Dodge died over 100 years ago, yet this book is still found for sale in many book stores and, of course, on Amazon.com.  That simple truth tells you more about this book then my review could hope too.  Great books survive, bad ones are forgetten.<br />Of course, since I only gave this book four stars, I don't necessarily think it is great.  It is a good book, easy to read and clear on the details.  Since it was written long ago, the clearness of its script, thus, seems even more remarkable.  <br />In Hannibal, Dodge details Hannibal's war with Rome, often referred to as the Second Punic War.  (The first fought by his father, the second came some time (30 years?) afterwards.)  Most historians have heard of Hannibal and the general outline of this war.  Dodge gives great detail based on (1) his own war experience during America's Civil War (2) his own travels of the countries involved in this war and (3) his readings of the older texts.  <br />Each chapter begins with a one page summary, followed by the details of each event listed.   Skip the summaries, and you might enjoy the book more, otherwise, its seems repetitive, because it just was.  <br />Dodge also talks alot about &quot;glory&quot; and honor.  It is strange to hear such comments from a American Civil War veteran.  Not that that war didn't have its share of both, but that the American Civil War is often thought of one of the first &quot;modern wars&quot; where bravery was important but machines made more difference. The truth is different.  Brave men have always, and will always be the key difference between success or failure in any venture.<br />The keen interest of Hannibal's times is that, in part, with so fewer machines or men, it was easier for a great man to make even more of an impact.  Hannibal was that man.  A man who almost changed the direction of the world from a Roman Empire to a Carthigian one.  Dodge's insights and honesty, worth reading 100 years after his death, will have relevence for most historians for at least 100 years to come.	2000-11-30
US	50197051	R3FJI2WAAWS1ZX	0812551478	855284075	Blood of the Fold (Sword of Truth, Book 3)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	That's Not A Dragon Its A Mrwisth	Okay, Okay, I don't know how to spell that monster.  But, on the cover of this book there is a red creature which, I hoped, was Scarlet.  Scarlet, you may recall, was the Dragon in the first book.  What happened to her anyway?  In fact, the way Richard Rahl befriends animals, and the fact that he was a ranger, I thought he was going to be an &quot;animal wizard.&quot;  <br />Nope, he is still a war wizard, and it shows in this book.  There is more fighting and magic in this book then the first two.  We have new creatures and some old friends including Nathan, Zedd, Gaaarcth and Ann.  The writer has really reached his stride.  This book is better then the first two, and they were great.  <br />There really is everything here.  Richard's romance with Kahlan continues and, perhaps, he has a new love.  We are introduced to a new villian who hunts down and kills people with magic.  There are some horrible, but great, battle scenes as some cites are sacked and the residents pay the price.  And, at the end of the book, there are two great epic battles - with Monsters.  If you don't like this book, you just don't like fantasy.   I like fantasy and, as I said I loved this book, it was simply great.	2000-11-28
US	50197051	R12WIDRDTRWQXM	0812548051	361278280	Wizard's First Rule (Sword of Truth, Book 1)	Books	5	9	13	N	N	Excellent Book.	This book started slow and I almost didn't finish it.  Don't make this mistake.  It picks up in the middle and then it never slows down.  It is a very good read.<br />In Wizard's First Rule, we are introduce to Richard, a ranger.  His father was recently murdered, and it was gruesome.  While off the in the forest,  he encounters a beautiful women fleeing for her life.  Is there a connection?<br />From these earlier scenes, we encounter Wizards, Witches, Friendly Spirits and Deadly Ghosts.  There are also talking dragons and flying, fierce winged warrior beasts. <br />The whole world may be destroyed, if Richard makes the wrong choice.  The writer has a good sense of style, and good sense of humor, and an interesting sense of morality.   At one point a Wizard says that he did the worst thing possible, he let the people suffer from the consequences of their actions. Of all this is an excellent book and I think most fantasy lovers will enjoy it.  A good start in a great series.	2000-11-28
US	50197051	R2IF4SB5DO5L1X	0345324250	589824021	The Zimmermann Telegram	Books	4	24	26	N	N	Barbara's Back!	Ms. Tuchman wrote &quot;The Guns of August&quot; which I believe is the best book ever written about WWI.  Unfortunately, she also wrote the book, &quot;The Proud Tower&quot; about the times just before WWI.  The Proud Tower was a bore.  As such, I wasn't sure what to think before I bought this one.   I was hopeful that it might be good and, I was right.  The Zimmerman Telegraph is a very good book which, if you like history and mystery, you should enjoy.   The Zimmerman Telegraph was especially interesting to me because, while I was in school, I had a professor who taught his belief that the Zimmerman Telegraph was a fraud.  It was not.  The Zimmerman telegaph was very real and with it the British may have changed the tides of history.  .<br />But first, what is the Zimmerman telegraph?  Mr. Zimmerman was a German ambassador during WWI.  As the war progressed, both sides looked for allies which would tip the scales in the war in Europe.  Mr. Zimmerman, and his cohorts, were instructed to induce Mexico into fighting on the German side, if American declared for the allies.  <br />Because General Pershing, who was to lead the Amercian troops in Europe, had invaded Mexico during this time (to attack a bandit revolutionary Pancho Villa); Because America had taken about 1/3 of Mexico eighty years earlier; And because America's army was one of the smallest in the world -  Mexico's entry into the war seem possible to German leaders 5000 miles away.   <br />Mr. Zimmerman, in secret code, wired back and forth to Germany to learn what he should do, and what he should offer.  Worse, at times, the Germanys borrowed American supplies, while negotiating about declaring war on America.  The British learned about these messages and wanted to share them with the Americans.  But how could they do it, without arrising their suspicions and those of later American professors?<br />The truth is an exciting mystery story filled with real people whom we love and hate, because Ms. Tuchman makes them so real.  She has a talent, when applied, which makes the past - present.  I could picture these events as they happened, understand the people, and even sympathize with the ones I didn't like before I read this book.  <br />The other thing Ms. Tuchman does so well is to explain motivations.  In Europe, for example, there was disputed land between Germany and France.  This land was take in 1870.  In 1914, the shame of this action still was present throughout France.  Indeed, in many units, it was a battlecry.  Surely some Mexicans felt the same about California?   Ms. Tuchman shows us why some people felt that a Germany-Mexican alliance was a good thing.  And a thing which the Mexicans would want.<br />There is much more that this book discusses.  But, as referenced above, this book is mainly about how the British broke the German codes and how they &quot;leaked&quot; this information to the Americans.  War is never fought for one reason.  But the main  reason America fought in WWI may have been this telegram - and the Germany-Mexican alliance it proposed.  A masterful job by Ms. Tuchman.	2000-11-23
US	50197051	R2NVD8XA0G0HKW	0393040054	610403523	Lend Me Your Ears: Great Speeches in History	Books	4	84	93	N	N	Don't read this book before you give a speech!	Lend Me Your Ears is a collection of speeches, based on topic, from Ancient Greece to Modern America.  It is edited by William Safire, an old speech writer for Nixon.  Still active in the field, William Safire has some good insight into what makes a great speech and how we can learn from the masters.<br />In particular, each topic and each speech has an introduction by Mr Safire.  In his introduction he explains the background of the speech,why this particular speech is important, and what makes this speech, in his view, so good.  For the most part, the book is very well done.  <br />I liked his comments and actually have adopted some of his suggestions for my own speeches.  (I am an attorney. I would warn the casual speaker that nothing is worse then read the &quot;best speeches of all time&quot; right before your own presentaton.  I made that mistake, once.)  <br />Why not five stars?  I thought he could have made some better selections.  In particular, he focused heavily on modern America and our politiicans.  I am sure, based on his audience, this was/is a smart move.  By doing so, however, he deleted some speeches that had more impact, more relevence, and more interest to this reader.  Still, this is a minor critic.  It is a good book, just not a five star one.	2000-09-29
US	50197051	R3MWYD0Y128KTW	0883659603	919293068	The 2,548 Best Things Anybody Ever Said	Books	3	16	19	N	N	Unusually Quote Book, but Fun	I thought that this book was funny.  For the most part, it doesn't include quotations that you will find in other places.  Instead the author quotes people from Johnny Carson to Winston Churchill.  There doesn't seem to be an predictable connection, except the personal preferences of the author.  As such, if you thing like the author, it makes for an interesting read.  I guess it would be of the most use for people who want a good quote, that few other people would use.  I haven't used the book professionally, but I enjoyed reading it from time to time. <br />And, as a bonus, the author adds in some interesting pictures which I really enjoyed.	2000-09-21
US	50197051	R1KYQM0I2DZ9IQ	0345421825	934137363	The First Immortal: A Novel Of The Future	Books	4	6	8	N	N	Great Ideas upholds Okay Story	I liked this book.  I liked the story and the idea, but I didn't like the  &quot;tone&quot; of the writer.  It is an interesting puzzle to me.  The  closest comparision to the writer, Mr. Halperin, I can come up with is  Robert Silverberg.  Mr. Silverberg wrote some great fantasy books, but they  tended to be sad or fatalistic.  Even when the hero wins, I never was very  happy about it.   Mr. Halperin's style is just like that.  Since Silverberg  has won many awards, I guess Halperin is in good company.  I, however, like  to read science fiction or fantasy with a lighter tone.   Mr. Halperin is  &quot;deadly&quot; serious and, in fact, in my book he has several pages of  places where you can go, if you want to be frozen for the future.  But  first, the story.<br />The First Immortal takes us through the life and times  of a man who is born in the early 20'th century and by story's end is, in  his view, essentially immortal.  (I will explain below) Along the way, the  point of view in the story changes two or three times.  Towards the end,  this gets a little confusing, but the story is clear enough.  Alot of the  story is focused on the conflict between this man, Ben, and his son Gary.   This conflict seems artificial to me.  It was put into this story to tie  the ends together, but it wasn't believable to me.<br />Anyway, this is a  distraction.  The First Immortal is really not a story of science fiction,  but rather an advocacy piece discussing possible science facts.  Halperin  focuses on Immortality and the disease of aging, but he also talks about  computer consiousness, medicine in the future world and different types of  bionic technology.  In these areas, the book is at its best.<br />One  discussion, for example, describes (or debates) what is a person?  A person  is still a person, if they have a false eye or a fake arm.  What about if a  person has implanted memories?  Or if part of their brain function is  mechanic?  Is a person still a person if 90% oftheir brain is organic  while 10% is not?   Is yes, are they still a person if 50% of their brain  is a computer?  Where do you draw the line?  <br />Since I disagree with how  this book answers this question, I disagree with the conclusion of its  author.  The fun, however, is having that fight about these issues with the  author. I liked these discussions, because I discuss similiar things with  friends.  And, if you like discussions like this, you will like this book.   If you don't, don't buy it.  For those of you who do buy it, and read this  review, email me afterwards.  I would be curious to see you responses to  some of the issues covered by The First Immortal.	2000-09-10
US	50197051	R1XK8LUQ83M96I	006099486X	418849151	The Professor and the Madman: A Tale of Murder, Insanity, and the Making of The Oxford English Dictionary	Books	5	4	5	N	N	The Title Tells It All, Almost.	The full title of this book is The Professor and the Madman, A Tale of  Murder, Insanity and the Making of the Oxford English Dictionary.   Curiously, this is only one of at least two books on this topic.  Stranger  still, the first few pages has many, many, reviews - all postive, from  people who have never agreed on anything, until they read this book.   Intriqued, I purchased it. <br />The title, of course, gives you a general  outline about this book.  But the author, Mr. Winchester, has written about  much more then the long title suggests.  This books is also about personal  relationships, history, and, indirectly, the death penalty today.  <br />First  though, it is a book about the dictionary.  Specifically the Oxford English  Dictionary or the OED.  I love learning the history of words so, in a way,  the history of the book of words, the dictionary, was a nature step.   <br />Mr. Winchester talks about the history of the dictionary from Samuel  Johnson to the reference books relied upon by William Shakesphere.  In the  process he also talks about how other nations from France to Italy defined  themselves, in part, but how they created books to define their words.   France, for example, is still guarding its language from the encroachment  of foreign langages - usually American English or Japanese.<br />But this book  is about much more then that.  The author has done alot of research, and it  shows.  His command of the facts and the times is amazing.  I learned new  things, for examples, about the American Civil War, even though I was a  history major who has studied this period, intermitedly, for the past 10  years.<br />More impressive is his desciption of the charactors.  Each person  here is a real in this book as they were in real life.  Well, I never met  them so I can't say for sure, but the entire book has the feeling of a  letter from an old friend.  The letter may say something important, or not,  but the way it is written and the references thatan old friend can make,  which makes the letter come alive.  <br />After reading this book I was  actually a little sad that I would not be visiting with these people again,  my new/old friends.  I was hoping for a sequel which, based on the subject  material, is impossible.  I will just have to satify myself with  Mr.  Winchester's next efforts, which, I hope will be soon.	2000-08-20
US	50197051	R6EB0X7ERTHMO	0801497140	119059842	The Archidamian War (A New History of the Peloponnesian War)	Books	4	32	33	N	N	The Relevance of Greek History	By the rank,subject, and age of this book, I doubt many, if anyone, will  read this review.  Thus, if you are reading these words, you are probably  one of the few who already enjoys reading about ancient history and are  just trying to decide which book in this area you will read next.   If this  is you, read this book.<br />Personally I knew some things, but not much about  this war.  Kagan discusses, in detail, the views of three of four  historians on the causes and origins of the war, how the war  could of been  avoided, and how it was fought. What is maddening is that he often repeats  what two or three people say, and then tells you why they are are wrong.   <br />If you are not familiar with the war, this approach can be confusing.   However, if you have time or already familiar with the &quot;Archidamian  War&quot;, this book is very satisfying.  After reading this book, you will  have a clearer understanding about the war and the people who fought it.   <br />Personally, I am a political junkie. I found myself so fascinated with  the stunning details about the passions and politics of these people that  they seemed as clear and as relevent to me as any story in the news today.   <br />This is Kagan's gift.  With marvelous use of analogies plucked from  every time and corner of history, he shows how Thuclyides was right, events  repeat themselves.  The form is always a little different, but often almost  the same as some past drama. This 2500 years old war is relevent today, not  just for drama or historians, but for both moderen politicians and military  stratigists. If we choose to listen.<br />My only concern for this book is  that, with the gaps in the records, much of Kagan work is as much fiction  as history.  He tells us what he believes to be the most probable reasons  why this event occured or why something else happened.  But, in the end,  those are only educated deductions from the record, not what actually  happened.  Kagan, in particular, seesman as more rational creature then,  in my view, he actually is.  Men and women often do things for no reasons  or, for very bad ones.      Kagan assumes city-states were more rational  then men, when a city-state is just a collection of men.  Men who are very  irrational at times.  <br />Still, this is a small criticism.  The book is  great.  Read it and remember, it is easier to learn from other's mistakes  then to make them yourself.  Thank you Mr. Kagan.	2000-08-20
