US	50200290	R1KV4TY3227JCR	0385721404	900212634	Holy War: The Crusades and Their Impact on Today's World	Books	1	165	240	N	N	Flawed thesis and tunnel vision: interesting dishonesty	The reader must approach this book very carefully, because Armstrong's thesis does not work. She links the past of almost one thousand years ago and argues that today's problems in the Middle East must be understood as a development of the Crusades  and that the mistrust and hostility that Muslims and Arabs (not the same thing, but often the terms are confused) in general feel toward Europeans and/or Westerners, and vice-versa, stem from the legacy of the Crusades. My problem with Armstrong is that she selectively goes to a certain chapter in History, then she selectively decides what to mention, and finally she selectively connects that past with the 20th century. This would do for shallow journalism, but not for History, and Armstrong, although apparently not a historian, tries very hard to write History with a capital H.<br />Islam invaded the lands of the Christians first. How many times must this be stressed? Armstrong writes about the pre-Crusades Muslim conquests but she is not critical, on the contrary, her attitude is so pro-Muslim that her credibility suffers: if the teritory is conquered or attacked by Christians, it is a catastrophe. If Muslims do the conquering, then it is a positive development. Armstrong does not see that, however ambitious the popes, barbarian the Normans, and greedy the Europeans in general, Christianity had every right to feel threatened by Islam throughout the Middle Ages and well into the 17th century. The Moslem Arabs had invaded Christian North Africa and eliminated Christianity from there. Then they invaded the Levant, which had belonged to the Byzantine empire. They also invaded the Christian civilization of Roman and Visigothic Spain in 711 AD. They invaded Sicily, Southern Italy, sacked Rome, and kept on pushing against Byzantium in the East. Then, and only then, came the Crusades, which ended in total defeat for the Latin Christians and so weakened the Byzantine empire that it could not resist the new wave of attacks thatthe recent converts to Islam, the Turks, unleashed. The problem in &quot;Holy War&quot; is that the Muslim invasions of Christian and non-Christian lands count for nothing. Those invasions followed a policy of imperialism, since the Muslims attacked the Zoroastrian domain of Persia and later Hindu India as early as 712. Also, it counts for nothing that, after the Crusades were over and the Christians had been defeated, a very triumphant Islam proceeded again to conquer. If Islam lost Spain and Portugal by the end of the 15th century, it made up the loss by conquering the Byzantine empire, invading all of Asia Minor (today's Turkey), Greece, the Balkans, Bulgaria, Romania, Hungary, and reaching the gates of Vienna. This little chapter of history, spanning several centuries, practically does not exist for Armstrong. The pages that deal with the rise of the Ottoman empire and the rise of Europe serve mostly to show how &quot;bad&quot; both Europeans and Turks were for thwarting the Arabs. The author has tunnel vision: at one end of the tunnel, the Crusades; at the other end, the Modern Middle East. All of what happened before the Crusades, and all the centuries of Muslim expansion and conquest that came after, are treated as unimportant.<br />The one star is because the book has many endnotes, providing the reader with plenty of additional material for independent research, and because by reading it some people may become more interested in the Crusades, or Medieval Europe, or history in general. But, again, beware of the thesis: its flaw makes it untenable. If you want to read about the Crusades, try Riley-Smith's &quot;Brief History of the Crusades&quot; and, as editor, &quot;Atlas of the Crusades.&quot; Also, Billings' &quot;The Cross and the Crescent&quot; is good and not long. Runciman's &quot;History of the Crusades&quot; (3 vols.), although biased against the Latins, is excellent. Regarding anti-Semitism (or Judeophobia, a better term) read Bernard Lewis' &quot;Semites and anti-Semites,&quot; or Netanyahu's &quot;Origins of the Inquisition in 15th century Spain.&quot; Armstrong's book has an interesting thesis that simply does not work. She, and all the authors who want to link the Crusades to the present, should also link the Crusades with a medieval Christianity besieged by a powerful and very militant Islamic empire, both before and after the period between the 11th and the 13th centuries. To ignore Islamic imperialism while castigating the European/Christian variety is to be dishonest.	2001-12-26
US	50200290	R1QPZ1DMNXY6V6	0812695186	320308412	Islam in History: Ideas, People, and Events in the Middle East	Books	5	52	57	N	N	When true scholarship proves its worth.	As Professor Lewis states in the Preface to the second edition of this work, &quot;Islam in History&quot; is a collection of thirty-two articles on Islam. Anybody wishing to gain some understanding of this very important, very misunderstood, and very troubled civilization, should read this book. Lewis, once again, provides the reader with a magnificent work that is not pedantic but instructive, that does not belittle its subject nor its audience, and that demonstrates how necessary true scholarship is, particularly in times such as these.<br />The book is divided into eight parts: Western Approaches, Muslim History and Historians, Muslims and Jews, Turks and Tatars, In Black and White, History and Revolution, New Ideas, and New Events. Since this new edition dates from 1993, the recent developments in the world should not be expected. However, I really meant it when I wrote that true scholarship is necessary in our world: in the last essay of this volume, Lewis writes that there have been basically two atitudes from Muslims to confront the problems of the Islamic/Arab world (he does not deal with the East-Asian Mulims, like Indonesians and Malaysians, because he admits that he does not know much about them), divided into two questions. The first one is &quot;What did we do wrong?&quot; The second is &quot;Who did this to us?&quot; The first question leads to the search for solutions. The second question, and this deserves to be quoted at length, &quot;leads to delusions and fantasies and conspiracy theories--indeed, the most dangerous enemies of the Muslim peoples at this time are those who assure them that in all their troubles the fault is not in themselves but in open or occult hostile forces. Such beliefs can only lead to resentment and frustration, to an endless, useless succession of bigots and tyrants and to a role in world history aptly symbolized by the suicide bomber. In the first of these questions [&quot;What did we do wrong?], for those who have the courage to ask it, and the vision to answer, lies hope for the future and for a new dawn of Muslim creativity.&quot;<br />Professor Lewis wrote those lines in 1993, but they are as relevant today as if he had written them on September 12, 2001. In fact, the last number of &quot;The Atlantic Monthly&quot; has an article by Professor Lewis where he presents this basic premise once more, since it was true a decade ago and it is true today.<br />I cannot recommend Bernard Lewis's books strongly enough. This one, as all his other books that I have read, is erudite, informative, interesting, serious, entertaining and, above all, important. If you have never read anything by him, but are interested in this book, read his recent article in &quot;The New Yorker&quot; (&quot;The Revolt of Islam&quot;), and the already mentioned article in &quot;The Atlantic.&quot; Those articles will serve as an Introduction to &quot;Islam in History.&quot; Bernard Lewis is an extraordinary scholar, and we are lucky to have him with us.	2001-12-20
US	50200290	R1RO7I7JQ77PMN	0385500521	288543952	Carnage and Culture: Landmark Battles in the Rise of Western Power	Books	4	24	30	N	N	Original thesis that needs more work.	As a teacher told my class last quarter at UCI, a thesis must be a statement that a reader can disagree with. Hanson's thesis is that the Western way of war is more effective, and has been so for a long time, because the Western nations are simply better at killing their enemies. Now, this is a charged statement, but as a thesis, although wanting, I find it fascinating. <br />I tend to react with healthy skepticism to claims that the root cause of this or that extremely complex situation is just one simple thing out of which everything else flows. So, at first, I doubted that Hanson's book was going to offer anything refreshing, but since it included the Battle of Lepanto, I picked it up and read it. To my surprise, his work is original and controversial, and even though I disagree with some of the evidence he presents to support his thesis, I recommend it.<br />Hanson's point is that the West, with its democracy and its commitment to basic liberties and rights, appears weaker than other types of governments, with absolute dictators and despots at the helm, but is actualy stronger. This is shown is the Western way of war, which goes for the absolute destruction of the enemy rather than compromise. That is Hanson's thesis. The problem with that thesis is that it relies far too heavily on our modern concept of the West and democracy. It is true that at Lepanto the Christian League defeated the Ottoman Turks thanks to a combination of naval know-how, technical innovation, and military prowess (the galeasses that smashed the Turks' galleys), but it is also true that the Christians were about to be defeated because Doria hesitated. At Salamis --another example offered by Hanson--, the Greeks defeated the Persians because they bottled them up against the coast, but the main reason the Greeks could even confront the Persians was that Themistocles had tricked the Athenians into believing that they needed a strong navy to protect them against other Greeks. The trickery worked and the Greeks had the ships to confront the invaders, but a well-intentioned deception saved their lives, not democracy. As it happens, the Athenians thanked Themistocles by voting to ostracize him, and he was banished from the city for ever: not exactly democracy's best moment.<br />I understand Hanson's point and his thesis is fascinating, but much of the development of the Western world --social, military, scientific-- is not linked to an idealized democracy, but to the urgent necessities of the times. Democracy is a work in progress, and the West is the best example of such work. Neither the West, nor democracy, have a perfect working relationship when it comes to war. Just the example of Japan during WWII is clear: it defeated both the British and the Dutch, and it was not squeamish at all in waging total war. Overextended and biting more than it could chew, it took on the US and lost. Hanson argues that Japan lost because it confronted a democracy. The truth is that Japan lost because the US, which happened to be a democracy, was big, rich, industrialized, and modern, and shielded enough by distance to be relatively well protected. Australia, on the other hand, also a democracy and a big country, had few people, not much industry, and was too close for comfort. If the US had not protected Australia, the Japanese would have walked all over the Aussies as they did against the British in Singapore, the Dutch in Java, and the isolated American troops in the Philippines. The matter was not democracy, but sheer size and distance.<br />Still, there is something to the idea that democracies, particularly the modern versions, produce more effective soldiers and more effective means of killing the enemy. And since democracies are overwhelmingly located in the &quot;West,&quot; it is tempting to equate efficiency at war with the political system that helps them be so efficient. Key word here is &quot;help.&quot; The West is better at war, and has extended its militaryas well as its peaceful influence accross the globe, because of a confluence of reasons, some more important than others, but none insignificant. There is more than one root cause for western military prowess and competence, and democracy is clearly included, perhaps even dominant. But it is not the only cause.	2001-09-28
US	50200290	R1J8HEO07VYK14	0684832283	731701064	God Has Ninety-Nine Names: Reporting from a Militant Middle East	Books	4	77	91	N	N	Flawed but still good.	I have read David Pryce-Jones review of Miller's book and, although I agree with Pryce-Jones that Miller misses the real root of the problems that plague the badly-named &quot;Middle East,&quot; I do not share the British author's severity of judgement. &quot;God has ninety-nine names&quot; is, before anything, a series of photographs in words. The reader will not get the depth that a profound analysis of the region should have, but we are trading the scholarly insights of a historian (and Miller is not a historian) for the immediacy of a reporter. I found several problems with this book, but none was so grave as to make me change my strong recommendation. Miller writes with the typical attitude (it has been called arrogance sometimes) of those who come from the developed Western world and marvel or gasp at the way the unwashed masses of the Third World behave. She equates westernization with modernization and both with progress, and in the Middle East there is cosmetic westernization, shallow modernization, and scant progress, with the exception of the State of Israel, an altogether different sort of bird in a very dismal aviary. When confronted with the harsh reality of strong men impossing their will on their subjects, and whole countries going macho and abusing their women (and those women in many cases applauding and encouraging such attitudes), then Miller seems to understand that she is in a different world, one that never knew of chivalry, or the Renaissance, or the French Revolution until those concepts and philosophies were imported to the area by Europe. The Middle East then appears as a dangerous place where secular and not-so-secular governments, some allied to the West, some its declared enemies, fight mostly vicious little wars against the religious militants who want to overthrow them and impose Shari'a throughout the Islamic world. The level of nastiness seems to have gone down, curiously, in Iran, where Shari'a is supposed to be working since the Shah left. Miller writes chapters on ten countries, including Sudan, Egypt, Israel, Iran, and Saudi Arabia. That the only country in the region where fundamentalists can participate politically as opposition, elect mayors, and run their show mostly as they see fit, is Israel, should not surprise anyone. That as soon as they acquire power (as in Sudan and Iran) fundamentalists make it practically impossible for others to be critical, except in open rebellion, should not be a surprise, either. Miller describes the area well, and her sense of being in the middle of things, plus the importance of the reporting, adds to the immediacy of the information we get. It would have been interesting to have chapters on Iraq, Turkey, and the Gulf States, but what she covers is well represented. I do not remember if Miller states that she speaks and/or reads Arabic, but the impression I got is that she can do neither. If this is the case, it would only show that, even though she reports candidly and helpfully, her understanding and vision must be limited. Pryce-Jones, of course, is right: power, and power defined and limited by honor and shame, are the key. Miller finally lets us get a glimpse of this phenomenon in her chapter on Jordan, where honor, shame, and conspiracy theories have prominence in pages 354-5. Her &quot;Conclusions&quot; chapter is special, since some of her opinions expressed before on the book, are refuted with a very politically-correct jab at the U.S. and its democracy, free markets, and (naturally) materialism. This is an uneven but valid work that should get the reader interested in the region. If that is the case, let me recommend &quot;The Closed Circle: an interpretation of the Arabs,&quot; by David Pryce-Jones; &quot;The Arab Predicament,&quot; by Fouad Ajami; &quot;Among the Believers&quot; and &quot;Beyond Belief,&quot; both by V.S. Naipaul; and any book by Bernard Lewis.	2001-09-05
US	50200290	R1OS7D52WG6M7H	0393092259	116733447	Beowulf: The Donaldson Translation, Backgrounds and Sources, Criticism	Books	5	14	14	N	N	Epic Glory	Review of &quot;Beowulf,&quot; Norton Critical Edition edited by Joseph F. Tuso and translated by E. Talbot Donaldson.<br />This is one of those works that has stayed with me, and I can understand the fascination it has exerted on so many people for such a long time. &quot;Beowulf&quot; is the jewel of Anglo-Saxon literature, written around 1000 AD, but composed most probably a couple of centuries earlier. This is a &quot;primary&quot; epic, like Homer's &quot;Iliad&quot; and &quot;Odyssey&quot; because it shares with them its oral origins. Unlike &quot;secondary&quot; epics, such as &quot;The Æneid,&quot; which has a clearly identifiable author creating the verses, &quot;Beowulf&quot; belongs to the oral tradition of the Old English &quot;Scop,&quot; the teller of tales. The story is a known one, but fascinating nonetheless: Beowulf, a man who was not appreciated by his own people, the Geats (in Sweden), finally earns their respect and admiration, so much so that he can render assistance to a foreign king, a Scylding (Dane), whose realm is under attack by Grendel, a monster who kills men and eats them. Beowulf fights Grendel, and Grendel's mother, ridding the Scyldings' land of their presence, earning the king's gratitude and reward, and earning honor and glory for himself. But the story continues: Beowulf goes back to the Geats, in time becoming their king, until he must fight a dragon that is devastating his kingdom. Behind this very succint description of its plot, &quot;Beowulf&quot; has magnificent digressions, details, and a very effective challenge to the system of feuding. The digressions are necessary to explain the customs of that particular time and people. One of the most effective ones happens in pages 35-36, when we are told of the arranged marriages between members of feuding nations, and how that tactic is doomed to fail in a society that never runs out of reasons, or excuses, to feud and wage war. Another important digression takes place in pages51-52, related to the battle of Ravenswood, and is again firmly tied to one of the poem's most powerful themes: the feuding society of vendettas that involve entire kingdoms must be disposed of. <br />&quot;Beowulf&quot; is glorious and tragic epic at its best. It opens with a funeral and it ends with a funeral. There is treasure given as offering to a king at the beginning of the poem, and treasure that is buried in order to get rid of the problems of society at the end of the poem. The men are brave, violent, and long for the death of heroes. The women are given as war prizes and considered booty (not much room for feminist characters in epic tradition). Old age is cruel because a society of feuds values youth and strength above all else. The monsters must be destroyed if the world of men (and women) is to go on. Grendel, the &quot;walker-alone,&quot; must die if the wine-hall of the Scyldings, Heorot, is to have scops telling stories, and men drinking and eating as before. Here is the principle of &quot;until&quot; applied to its best effect: things are just fine at Heorot until Grendel shows up and kills so many men that nobody uses the wine-hall for fun anymore. Things are fine in the land of the Scyldings until Grendel starts killing people. Everybody celebrates Grendel's death at the hands --literally-- of Beowulf until the next night, when Grendel's mother avenges her son by killing a man. Beowulf goes back to his land, becomes king, and everything goes well until an angry dragon starts destroying towns. Basically, this is life: things go well until they don't. The poem manages to remind us of something so obvious that we yet tend to forget, especially if we drift toward happy endings.<br />As with most Norton Critical Editions, this one has been put together with the student in mind but is still interesting for the general reader. Donaldson's prose translation is clear and to the point, and the footnotes, even though not as abundant as I would have liked, are helpful. The essays cover almost everything you always wanted to know about Danes, Geats, Feuds, Old English Scops, Prosody, and Poetry, Historical background, and more, including perhaps plenty of what you really do not want to know. Particular attention deserve two essays: Edward B. Irving's &quot;The Feud: Ravenswood&quot; (my teacher, Mrs. Georgianna, really likes this one), and J.R.R. Tolkien's &quot;Beowulf: The Monster and the Critics.&quot; This last essay is also included in the excellent, and sadly out-of-print, book &quot;An Anthology of Beowulf Criticism,&quot; edited by Lewis E. Nicholson, and it has become a classic.<br />The only thing I would add to this edition, apart from more footnotes, is the original text in Old English. Other than that, this is simply an excellent addition to the vast Beowulf literature, presenting us with the true grandeur and pathos of epic glory at the threshold of enormous social changes.	2001-08-04
US	50200290	R1H4JV0HGIH0UI	0140441069	874869418	Three Tales (Penguin Classics)	Books	3	4	12	N	N	Tired intellectual superiority.	The only tale of the three that I enjoyed here was &quot;Herodias,&quot; although I must admit that all three are very well-written. In &quot;Herodias&quot; the reader gets to see, or understand, very little of the woman after whom the story is named. Herod is presented from an angle different to that we have become used to, and that in itself is commendable. The terrible problems of governing a small, peripheral state, and having to please powerful enemies, dangerous allies, and fanatic compatriots, appears as the unbearable burden that the king, Herod, deals with. His dealings with enemies camped literally outside his palace, his plotting wife, the Roman envoy, and with John the Baptist, make Herod more human than monstruous. Even if the historical king is not close to Flaubert's representation, this fictional account is superb.<br />I culd not identify very much with the other two tales. &quot;The Legend of St. Julian the Hospitator&quot; is written in the hagiographical style common to the medieval &quot;lives of the saints&quot; that it copies and, to a great degree, mocks, with traces of influence from other sources, such as Marie de France's &quot;Lais.&quot; The story of the cruel and spoiled Julian is interesting, but his conversion from a joyful killer of animals, to a man who believes has killed his mother, to a mercenary, to a jealous man who commits a terrible murder by mistake, and finally to a &quot;living saint&quot; who helps people cross a river on his raft, is not only difficult to swallow, but very obviously told in a very special way by Flaubert (no friend of the Church) in order to send a message. The ending, a bizarre epiphany with strong homoerotic aspects where Christ appears as a very demanding leper who wants Julian naked on his bed and on top of him, may be exactly what Flaubert says it is: a faithful rendition of Julian ascent to Heaven, according to the stained-glass window in the author's &quot;part of the world.&quot; But this is mostprobably Flaubert attempting to be provocative.<br />And the first tale, &quot;A Simple Heart,&quot; laughs out loud at faith once again, since the protagonist &quot;sees&quot; her dead and stuffed parrot as a substitute for Christ welcoming her to the afterlife. This &quot;simple heart&quot; is Félicité, a woman of very limited intelligence that Flaubert uses to poke fun at the unsophisticated faith of the country folk. As an atheist I should have laughed with the author, but I just could not. I can see his undisguised attempt to write, in three tales, a pseudo-history of Christianity, from its beginnings when St. John the Baptist announced the coming of Jesus Christ, to the Middle Ages when hagiography was a very popular literary genre and towns really fought over the privilege of having a Patron Saint, to Flaubert's own time of rational thought and intellectual dismissal of religion. But I found the whole a rather dishonest way to deal with the bother that religion had become in Flaubert's life. &quot;Herodias&quot; is good, but the other two are obvious frontal assaults on the author's chosen enemy. My atheism does not blind me to the evident pamphletary function of &quot;A Simple Heart&quot; and &quot;Julian the Hospitator.&quot; They are well-written, but the author's attitude of intellectual superiority is tiresome.<br />My review corresponds to the Penguin Classics edition of 1961, and the previous reviewer is right: the translator, and author of the Introduction, is Robert Baldick, not Walter J. Cobb. The Introduction is informative and good, even if I cannot agree with Baldick's positive evaluation of these &quot;Three Tales.&quot;	2001-08-02
US	50200290	R9M0JRVPIVQMM	0393302334	815553878	The Muslim Discovery of Europe	Books	5	172	195	N	N	From autarchy to rude awakening.	I have just finished reading Bernard Lewis' \\"The Muslim Discovery of Europe\\" (1982  edition), and I find, once again, that Professor Lewis is a master. Just as he did in \\"Semites and Anti-Semites,\\" the author provides the reader with the necessary information to start the process of acquiring an educated opinion on the subject. In this case, Professor Lewis deals, as the title implies, with the Muslim \\"discovery\\" of Europe, and what emerges is the picture of an entire civilization so certain of its own importance and so sure of its righteousness, that it does not do much to know the barbarians from the North and West, robbing itself of the chance to learn something, maybe little but most probably quite a lot, from a different culture, one that, quite unexpectedly, would turn planetary in a matter of centuries. The Muslim world appears as what great civilizations --and most big countries today-- tend to be: obsessed with itself. Professor Lewis proves that, even if the European attitude towards other cultures was similar to that of the Muslims, Europe always allowed a little window of doubt to upset the perfect order of a religion-based society. Doubt and curiosity blessed Europe. After all the bloodshed and the terrible price paid in lives and suffering, Europe could still astound the world with the \\"Renaissance\\" of the 12th century, and the true Renaissance that started in Italy in the 14th. Hand in hand with religious murders, expulsion of Jews and Moors, Inquisition, Reformation, and Thirty-Years War, Europe gave \\"Don Quijote,\\" Copernicus, Tycho Brahe, Galileo, Newton, Leibnitz, Descartes, Boccaccio, Dante, and thousands of others to the world. While this was happening, Europe's most powerful neighbor was blinded by its own arrogance and its total belief in its superiority.<br />The Muslim world eventually \\"discovered\\" Europe, but it was more of a rude awakening than a discovery. This book also states early on what is clear in many history texts, but that tends to be forgotten by overly-sympathetic Western voices: Islam started as an eminently warrior religion, conquering places where Christianity had been established for centuries, like North Africa (Saint Augustine was from Hippo, which is Carthage), and the always improperly named Palestine area. The Muslim conquerors did not go sword in hand to those places to convert idolatrers, and they certainly did not go to Spain because the Visigothic kingdoms were atheist. Eminent historians, like the late Steven Runciman in \\"History of the Crusades\\" (3 volumes), and popular programs, like the BBC-A&E \\"Crusades,\\" can badly serve their readers and viewers by blaming only Europeans for the Crusades, stating that these started in 1096 with the Cristian invasion of Syria, and ended in 1291 with the fall of the last Christian stronghold, Acre. Bur Professor Lewis knows better: the Muslim-Christian confrontation, with ups and downs, years of ferocity and years of coexistence, started when the Muslims broke out of the Arabian Peninsula to conquer the world in the name of Islam, taking the fight to Christianity in North Africa and the Levant and then to Europe itself, invading the Iberian Peninsula and France. They attacked Byzantium for centuries, until the newly-converted Muslim Turks overwhelmed the empire and this collapsed in 1453. After that, Europe was invaded again and it took the Europeans more than 250 years to remove the threat of Islamic conquest from their midst. Since this book deals with the Muslim attitude towards Europe, we get a better picture than the simplistic approach that, unfortunately, Runciman and the BBC program present of bad Christians, good Muslims. In this area, I highly recommend John Riley-Smith's work, as editor, of the \\"Oxford Illustrated History of the Crusades,\\" and Malcolm Billings' \\"The Cross and the Cescent: a history of the Crusades.\\" Lewis is not interested in good or bad: he presents the Muslims through their own (meagre) documents on Europe, and for us, used to self-criticism and to be very severe critics of Western Culture's shortcomings, it is refreshing and indeed necessary to realize that prejudice is not exclusive of the West. Willful ignorance of others because those others are different was very much at home in the House of Islam.<br />Professor Lewis divides his book into 12 chapters, such as Contact and Impact, The Muslim View of the World, Muslim Scholarship about the West, etc. My only complaint is that many original texts are mentioned but not quoted as much as I would have wanted to. However, the Notes section makes clear that the author has reviewed all the texts that he refers to, many of which are unique manuscripts. I have written before that to read just a couple of Professor Lewis' books is to realize that he realy knows his subject: his sources go beyond traditional European scholarship to the original documents in Arabic, Persian, and Turkish. What some readers might consider \\"bias,\\" I see as letting the Muslims speak for themselves. It is true the the Europeans were were no more enlightened than the Muslims for a long time, but the European stirrings of the 11th and 12th centuries had no parallel in the Islamic world, and the Muslim decision to ignore the Renaissance was a sovereign and fateful one. Preofessor Lewis knows the people and the culture, and he admires what is to be admired (and as a magnificent incentive you should check \\"Islam, Art and Architecture,\\" edited by Hattstein and Delius). But he does not fail the serious student, nor the serious reader, by sparing us the critical analysis of a society born in conquest, used to military victories and imperial attitudes, that sees itself --suddenly, as it happens-- left behind by those it despised for so long as weaklings and infidels. A quote from the Ottoman author Evliya Çelebi, regarding Austrians and their lack of martial qualities, could very well describe the general attitude of Muslims who should have known better about Europe, and explains in part today's anger and frustration in that region of the world, confronted with a rather dismal present but preceded by a glorious, if self-satisfied, past. The quote appears on page 155: \\"They [the Austrians] are just like Jews,\\" Çelebi writes. \\"They have no stomach for a fight.\\" Oh, how the world has changed!d for us, used to self-criticism and to be very severe critics of Western Culture's shortcomings, it is refreshing and indeed necessary to realize that prejudice is not exclusive of the West. Willful ignorance of others because those others are different was very much at home in the House of Islam.<br />Professor Lewis divides his book into 12 chapters, such as Contact and Impact, The Muslim View of the World, Muslim Scholarship about the West, etc. My only complaint is that many original texts are mentioned but not quoted as much as I would have wanted to. However, the Notes section makes clear that the author has reviewed all the texts that he refers to, many of which are unique manuscripts. I have written before that to read just a couple of Professor Lewis' books is to realize that he realy knows his subject: his sources go beyond traditional European scholarship to the original documents in Arabic, Persian, and Turkish. What some readers might consider \\"bias,\\" I see as letting the Muslims speak for themselves. It is true the the Europeans were were no more enlightened than the Muslims for a long time, but the European stirrings of the 11th and 12th centuries had no parallel in the Islamic world, and the Muslim decision to ignore the Renaissance was a sovereign and fateful one. Preofessor Lewis knows the people and the culture, and he admires what is to be admired (and as a magnificent incentive you should check \\"Islam, Art and Architecture,\\" edited by Hattstein and Delius). But he does not fail the serious student, nor the serious reader, by sparing us the critical analysis of a society born in conquest, used to military victories and imperial attitudes, that sees itself --suddenly, as it happens-- left behind by those it despised for so long as weaklings and infidels. A quote from the Ottoman author Evliya Çelebi, regarding Austrians and their lack of martial qualities, could very well describe the general attitude of Muslims who should have known better about Europe, and explains in part today's anger and frustration in that region of the world, confronted with a rather dismal present but preceded by a glorious, if self-satisfied, past. The quote appears on page 155: \\"They [the Austrians] are just like Jews,\\" Çelebi writes. \\"They have no stomach for a fight.\\" Oh, how the world has changed!	2001-08-02
US	50200290	R28GLGAF81UOBA	0802082025	799657700	The Life of Christina of Markyate: A Twelfth Century Recluse (MART: The Medieval Academy Reprints for Teaching)	Books	4	11	21	N	N	Sad paradox in an intriguing work.	Popular belief holds that during the Middle Ages sex was avoided like the plague --another medieval staple-- and all human energies went to glorify God. This &quot;Life of Christina&quot; is able to both support part of the popular belief and, at the same time, undermine it, leaving the reader with a strange sense of wonder at such a talented and resourceful woman who, with her work and example, contributed to the solid establishment of a social paradigm that would become dominant for the next 800 years and that would be so detrimental to women.<br />Christina, whose given name was Theodora, chose many paths in her life. She chose her name, chose to remain a virgin, chose not to marry any man, and chose to stick to her decisions. This is not the story of a girl who is forced into a convent and must sacrifice her terrenal love to obey her family. Christina is literally hounded by her parents because they want her to marry. Her mother will eventually not care if there is a marriage as long as Christina has sex with somebody. Since Christina refuses, such act would have to be rape, but mom is just fine with that, too. The smart girl will prove to be quite a match for Ralph Flambard, a cad who attempts to seduce her; for Burthred, her hapless betrothed; and for mom and dad. Even the prior Fredebertus will not be able to disuade her from remaining a virgin. This story is, then, very much in line with the popular view of the Middle Ages: virginity at all costs and service to God. But Christina is continuosly penalized precisely for wanting those two things. Everybody else around her wants her to marry, and her mother just wants her to have sex and get it over with.<br />Christina triumphs and accomplishes her goals, which is not a surprise after you have read the back cover comment and the excellent, if lengthy, Introduction. What strikes me as sad, though, is that Christina, a very determined and intelligent woman, assists in perpetuating, with her example, the ideas that with the guidance of the Church will become established wisdom and, in many cases, dogma: sex is bad, abstinence is good, God loves virgins, desire is the way to the devil, and the perfect place for women is a cloister where they can be kept safe from the dangers and temptations of the world. Even if Christina's &quot;relationship&quot; with Christ is, for her, a very sexual one, this does not lessen the effect of her overall message: she has chosen to become a recluse, remain a virgin, and thus serve God, as if those options were, by necessity compatible and mutually supportive. True, in her time the options available to women were very limited, but she uses her wits and her resources toward a rebellion that will just contribute to the identification of sex with sin. We may get the nuances and endearing contradictions today, but this hagiography served one purpose in her day, and for centuries after her death: to show Christina as an example for other girls and women to follow. In this way, her book and example helped cement misogyny in a world that was already leaning in that direction, tilted by the intellectual and apostolical inputs of, among others, Aristotle, Saint Paul, and Saint Augustine. By being a rebel whose cause is to renounce sex and live as a recluse, Christina is not really helping widen the horizons for other women and, thus, not helping humanity in the end. The saddest part is that she truly believes she is doing God's work.<br />This University of Toronto Press Edition, edited and translated by C.H. Talbot, has good footnotes in the Introduction, a helpful map of Christina's environs, and the Latin text on the even-numbered pages. You may disagree with my opinions, but I think everybody interested in the Middle Ages will find this a very well-edited, useful, and peculiar work. Read it and reach your own conclusions.	2001-07-28
US	50200290	R1LAPLZGFWCE2B	0486284727	691093854	The Time Machine (Dover Thrift Editions)	Books	5	3	4	N	Y	Wonders and nightmares	This is one one those works that prove the validity of science fiction as serious literature, not simply escapist genre adventures. H.G. Wells provides us with a warning tale about our decay as a society and our very possible decay as a species, working with the theory of evolution since the process does not have to mean progressively better species, but may also mean regression. The science in this classic is wrong, something I usually complain about regarding science fiction, but Wells is far more interested in the social aspects of his novella than in the purely scientific ones. Important points: the humans that the Time Traveller encounters in the adventure he describes to his friends are just a part of the human branch, smaller than most humans of the Time Traveller's day, childlike (as in carefree and irresponsible), indolent, sexually active, lazy, and non-productive: they are parasites who do not contribute anything to their own existence. They still have the essentially weak bodies that humans are supposed to have traded long ago in exchange for a bigger brain and dexterity, so they could use their intelligence and their hands to become the dominant species on the planet. The Eloi that the Time Traveller describes are just useless, and they represent one half of our descent into a new species of primate. The other half are the Morlocks, ugly, soft, underground dwellers who keep the Eloi alive and feed on them. It would be very difficult to explain this biological division, both Eloi and Morlocks sprouting from the human branch, and Wells does not succeed with his explanation: the Eloi are still very similar to us, whereas the Morlocks are clearly different. Eloi and Morlock should be biologically closer to each other than to a 19th century man, but the Time Traveller is sexually compatible with the Eloi girl he saves: this is rather problematic, since the narrator clearly believes that Eloi and Morlocks are what is left of us. Another problem is the Morlock's fear of fire in spite of their knowledge of machinery and metal works. Without fire, there are no metal works. Wells theory of our social and evolutionary decay is the basis of this novella and, in spite of the problem with science, the argument works very well if one applies suspension of disbelief, which is essential anyway for any work of science fiction. Regarding the possibility of humanity -or a part of it- going underground and eventually staying there, I also recommend the book by Gabriel de Tarde \\"Underground Man.\\" A very positive aspect of \\"The Time Machine\\" is that the Eloi that our Traveller describes do not speak English: after evolving into something other than totally human, after hundreds of thousands of years, the Eloi cannot know English, and even though it is obvious to point it out, one of the worst problems with science fiction -especially in film and TV- is that all aliens speak English and plenty of them know Shakespeare pretty well. The author does not fall into that ridiculous trap: neither the Eloi, nor the Morlocks, know what English is, much less can communicate in it.<br />\\"The Time Machine\\" is short, engaging, and thought-provoking. Once the technical problems are shrugged off, this is science fiction at its best: a warning of possible wonders and nightmares to come. This review is of the Dover Edition.'s fear of fire in spite of their knowledge of machinery and metal works. Without fire, there are no metal works. Wells theory of our social and evolutionary decay is the basis of this novella and, in spite of the problem with science, the argument works very well if one applies suspension of disbelief, which is essential anyway for any work of science fiction. Regarding the possibility of humanity -or a part of it- going underground and eventually staying there, I also recommend the book by Gabriel de Tarde \\"Underground Man.\\" A very positive aspect of \\"The Time Machine\\" is that the Eloi that our Traveller describes do not speak English: after evolving into something other than totally human, after hundreds of thousands of years, the Eloi cannot know English, and even though it is obvious to point it out, one of the worst problems with science fiction -especially in film and TV- is that all aliens speak English and plenty of them know Shakespeare pretty well. The author does not fall into that ridiculous trap: neither the Eloi, nor the Morlocks, know what English is, much less can communicate in it.<br />\\"The Time Machine\\" is short, engaging, and thought-provoking. Once the technical problems are shrugged off, this is science fiction at its best: a warning of possible wonders and nightmares to come. This review is of the Dover Edition.	2001-07-06
US	50200290	R1KD0VEDV2SU3U	0192833340	628528047	Sir Gawain and The Green Knight (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	5	11	12	N	N	A great medieval romance	This version of &quot;Sir Gawain&quot; must be one of the best around. Keith Harrison translates into modern English a fascinating poem of challenge, witchcraft, temptation, and courage, composed in a mix of alliterative-epic verse with the &quot;bob-and-wheel&quot; that closes each stanza. The introduction explains all these terms, plus others, in case the reader is not familiarized with them. The translator has kept the rhythmic cadence of the bob and wheel, while the alliterative part is correspondingly &quot;epic,&quot; dealing with the serious subject at hand. The explanatory notes are helpful, although here, as in the entire Oxford Classics Collection, numbered footnotes would have been better than the not-numbered endnotes we get.<br />The story of &quot;Sir Gawain&quot; lends itself to several interpretations, since under the apparently simple surface of a challenge to King Arthur's Court and the ensuing adventure of Gawain, there are other plots, different points of view, and a very modern juxtaposition of perspectives that other poems, such as &quot;Havelock&quot; or Marie de France's &quot;Lais&quot; simply do not have. A mysterious Green Knight challenges King Arthur's Knights to a bizarre contest. Gawain answers, and from then on nothing is what appears to be: a decapitated man will live to restore his head to his body, Gawain will go looking for the Green Knight's abode and find a castle where the owner will offer a little challenge of his own, while the owner's wife does her best to seduce Gawain. The descriptions of the hunts are vivid and violent. The descriptions of the bedroom scenes between Gawain and the lady of the house are playful but menacing at the same time. Almost everything is explained when Gawain realizes that he is not such a perfect model of Knighthood as he thought, and when both he and the reader can see that the true contest has taken place far from battle axes, hunts, and bloody hounds killing their prey. What does not get an explanation, though, is Gawain's extreme condemnation of himself while he absolutely ignores the witchcraft used to trick him, his host's false pretenses, the lady's hypocrisy, and the good ol' joke they have played at his expense. &quot;Sir Gawain&quot; could have used a different ending, and not Gawain eternally sad because he finds out that he is human after all, but what we get here is very good. This English medieval romance delivers quite a lot. Read it and enjoy.	2001-07-04
US	50200290	R3HVX51ZPOXELU	3829025580	223550702	Islam Art and Architecture	Books	5	37	37	N	N	A great big book	This is simply a magnificent book. Written and published originally in German, well-translated (it reads as if it had been originally written in English, which indicates a good translation), beautifully put together, well edited, with hundreds of full color photographs of mosaics, mosques, palaces, forts, towns, manuscripts, jewels, and mausoleums. The book claims attention. It is a full history of Islam, with maps and timelines in every chapter to help the reader in what might be unfamiliar territory, plus a full history of the development of Art and Architecture in 14 centuries of Islamic culture around the globe. Every page has at least one photograph, and all photographs are of great quality, sharp and clear. Even the photo on page 334, one of the very few in black and white, is good, almost haunting, since the walls shown are in ruins. The paper is also high quality. From the cover onwards it is clear that there is great respect for the culture represented in this book, and for the reader who will go through 600 hundred pages of text and supporting material. My personal highlights: night shot of the Kaaba, in Mecca, p. 2 and 13. Map of Europe, Asia, and most of Africa with sharp, thumbnail-like photographs of Muslim architectonic marvels in those three continents, p. 6-7. Al-Mutawakkil mosque, p. 103. What the facade of the Azhar Mosque in Cairo (p. 140) and the Almoravid clay seal (p. 247) have in common, which is a testimony to the endurance of symbols. The entire &quot;Spain and Morocco&quot; chapter, 207-299.<br />The appendix, starting on 601, is helpful and clear. The publisher, Könemann, is reponsible for another winner, &quot;Gothic Architecture, Sculpture, Painting,&quot; but I believe &quot;Islam, Art and Architecture&quot; is better overall. This book is big and heavy, being more practical as a source of information than as a text that you would read from cover to cover or carry around. I highly recommend it, though, if you are interested in Islam at all from any perspective. My interest is mostly historical, but I can see already that this is a book that I will return to again and again.	2001-07-03
US	50200290	R2R183O3495A9U	0679725741	714023087	Man's Fate (La Condition Humaine)	Books	4	69	81	N	N	The irony of fate	André Malraux, who was a leftist in his youth, resisted the Nazis during WWII, and became minister of culture under DeGaulle, was a man that defied easy definitions. His novel &quot;Man's Fate&quot; resists easy classifications. This is a political thriller based on true events: a failed Communist uprising in China at the time of the uneasy alliance of Chiang Kai-shek's Nationalist forces and the Communists. For reasons of grand strategy, the decision-makers in Moscow opt for sacrificing their people to Chiang, betraying the very cadres who will die for the cause Moscow pushes. This is the main, but not the only, irony in the novel. There is an assassin who kills because that is the only moment when he truly feels alive (Ch'en). There is a man of mixed European and Japanese ancestry (Kyoshi) who fights for Communism because he believes it is the only answer to the desperate situation of the Chinese workers and peasants, the same Chinese workers and peasants that the rich Chinese have exploited with the help of Europeans, and that the Japanese will kill wholesale in the 1930's and WWII during their war against China. There is a professional communist agitator (Katov) who will behave like a hero when the time comes, but since now we know what the men and women of the Komintern did, it is clear that Katov was familiarized with torture and murder from the torturer and murderer's perspective.<br />The author's sympathies are with the Communists, but he is too honest not to write clearly that the &quot;heroes&quot; of this book could very well be seen as criminals and terrorists by the other side. &quot;Man's Fate&quot; is an engrossing novel. It reads fast and shows a very human aspect of a doomed revolution where betrayal is the name of the game and expediency the only applicable rule. Thus, the sacrifices that some of the main characters must endure, including torture and death, are reduced to simple convenience or inconvenience for their leaders, who will sacrifice them without a second thought. <br />A final irony that Malraux could not have foreseen when he published the novel in 1933, is that the defeated ones at the end of the book are the Communists, who will go on to win the big price itself, China, in 1949. The winners of the uprising in the novel are the Nationalists of the Kuomintang, who will end up losing China to the Communists and setting up their government-in-exile in Taiwan, under Chiang Kai-shek's leadership. And today, 70 years after &quot;Man's Fate&quot; was published, Taiwan is a new democracy, an industrial and technological powerhouse, while China is still led by a clique of Communists who answer to nobody and who will kill their own people in order to gain an advantage and stay in power, just like they did in the uprising that the novel describes, just like they did --by the millions-- during Mao's reign, and just like they continue to do to this day. If there is something such as man's fate, it is definitely ironic.	2001-07-02
US	50200290	R1AYKYK10JISHV	0192833626	590612959	Tess of the D'Urbervilles (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Sad, ambiguous, troubling, and beautiful.	My review is based on the Oxford Classics Edition.<br />Thomas Hardy seems to have been interested mostly in sad, unhappy characters who lead troubled, disappointing lives, struggle against fate, and lose. There is beauty in artistically represented sadness, though, and notably so if we are only spectators. I am not giving away the ending by writing that &quot;Tess&quot; is a sad novel. I think most people who choose to read this book do so because they know it is a sad story, or they have read Hardy before. In my case, I had to read it for school, and what truly surprised me is the ambiguity that Hardy so masterfully portrays in order to make his heroine more of a real person instead of a mere character. By the book's end we really do not know whether Tess was raped or seduced by Alec; whether he took advantage of a sleeping girl and forced himself upon her, or she allowed it in a moment of weakness, tired after a strenous day and grateful to him for &quot;saving&quot; her from the other workers. However it happened, Tess's life is radically changed after the fact and this event will have grave consequences for her and Alec.<br />The ambiguity is troubling with the entrance of Angel, the hypocrite who falls in love with Tess because she looks angelic, virginal, and beautiful as a child, but rejects her when she tells him that she is not a virgin (therefore not a child) anymore. Her other qualities are there, but Angel equates purity with virginity --something many people still do when it refers to women-- so he can construct a perfect excuse for his terrible behaviour towards the woman he has said he loved. In spite of the forebodings that Hardy drops before Chapter 35, this particular chapter, at the beginning of Phase the Fifth, is very powerful and almost surprising in its intensity. The level of troubling ambiguity goes up several notches at the end of the novel, when it appears that Angel may indeed get his &quot;little girl&quot; as a replacement for the onehe just lost.<br />&quot;Tess&quot; is a sad and beautiful story. There is much more to write about this novel, but I have decided to concentrate on what Hardy seems to have intended when he wrote so beautifully about so sad a theme, but in such an ambiguous way. He calls Tess &quot;A Pure Woman,&quot; and she is that. But as only a truly great writer would, he does not present her as an outright victim: there are plenty of opportunities for Tess to escape Alec before they have sex, and plenty of opportunities for her to deal in a different way with the cruel hand that fate has dealt her. She does not escape Alec, and she chooses Angel (rotten luck with men). There are tragic flaws in Tess, and that is what makes her human while making &quot;Tess&quot; into a true tragedy. Hardy knows this. His prose is elegant and, at times, it reads more like poetry, going from good to beautiful.<br />This edition of the novel is helpful, but it could be better. I prefer foot-notes rather than end-notes. If they have to be end-notes, they should have numbers. The Introduction by Simon Gatrell is original, although I do not agree with its main premises: that there are two Thomas Hardys at work in &quot;Tess,&quot; and that &quot;A Pure Woman&quot; refers not to purity, but to &quot;essential, wholly&quot; woman. This is valid as an opinion but unsupported by evidence. I recommend &quot;Tess of the d'Urbervilles.&quot; If you have never read Hardy, read this. If you have read him, you know what to expect.	2001-06-27
US	50200290	R19O6BETGP87KQ	0393955524	489174445	Heart of Darkness: An Authoritative Text, Backgrounds and Sources, Criticism (Norton Critical Editions)	Books	5	203	227	N	N	Into the dark	Several people I am acquainted with have questioned my reading of &quot;Heart of Darkness,&quot; using as argument the fact that they read it &quot;in high school.&quot; Apparently, for these very well-read  souls, if the book was in their high school reading list, then it should never be approached again. Well, both the poem of &quot;El Cid&quot; and the novel &quot;Don Quijote&quot; first revealed their wonders to me when I was in high school, and now that I have read them again (and &quot;Don Quijote&quot; complete this time), they have just proved to be timeless classics with something to tell a person of any age. &quot;Heart of Darkness,&quot; by Joseph Conrad, is a classic that, given its length, invites several readings, particularly if one goes beyond the &quot;high school-depth&quot; sadly evident in those acquaintances of mine. The different, dark, alien world of the Congo as barely seen through Marlow's eyes, juxtaposed with the author's subtle-but-powerful condemnation of a system that promotes exploitation of those seen as &quot;inferior,&quot; is one of this novella's most important, and often missed, commentaries. Marlow is the English sailor who does not, and cannot, understand anything that is not English, from the nameless city across the Channel (Brussels, most probably), to the ghost-like figures that people his employer's offices, to the multi-coloured map that shows how Africa has been carved, to the multi-coloured Russian whose language Marlowe cannot recognize and believes is cypher, to the river itself, to the native inhabitants of the land he is invading. This trip up the Congo river that Marlow tells his shipmates about while on the Thames is a journey after a man's voice, his treasure of ivory, and his report on the natives. This man, Kurtz, is the one who will state &quot;kill the brutes!&quot; in his report, expressing the opinion of so many Europeans regarding most, and maybe all, non-European races. <br />   &quot;Heart of Darkness&quot; can be read simply as an adventure, but there are several, better, adventure books that have better &quot;hooks&quot; and are, at the same time, more easily forgotten. This is an extraordinary short book by an extraordinary author. Do not deprive yourself of a magnificent, early 20th century masterpiece of literature, just because someone was not hooked by it, or because someone read it in high school and it just wouldn't do to read it again. The power of this book is not in its &quot;easy&quot; prose, because its prose is definitely not easy. It is not in an artificially complex prose, either. This second fault seems more the refuge of other writers, plenty of them modern ones, who have confused &quot;good&quot; with obscure, and &quot;better&quot; with unreadable. Conrad knows how to tell a story, and there is a method to this dark tale told by Marlow, a man much closer to Kurtz than he would like to admit. Since the reader is presented only with Marlow's account, the jump from the reader to Marlow to Kurtz and back to the reader is a troubling one. Here is Conrad's mastery. Read the book. If you have read it, try it again. It may surprise you what new revelations prowl its pages.<br />   This  3rd Norton Critical edition is the best I have seen so far. The essays are all good, but Chinua Achebe's deserves special attention: the Nigerian author advocates not reading &quot;Heart of Darkness&quot; at all, a statement that, coming from a writer, is not just surprising, but deeply disturbing. I sincerely believe that this form of intentional ignorance, of voluntary censorship on the part of the reader, only serves to foment a generalized, public ignorance of the world around us.	2001-06-19
US	50200290	R2EP3HGXZBZ84O	0345384733	982017226	Red Square	Books	5	34	36	N	N	Again, tops by Smith.	The title is a play on words, and things have really changed in Arkady Renko's Moscow. He's an Investigator again; he has been rehabilitated. His concerns are the different mafias that rule the city's underground (and plenty of the above-ground) trade, and a radio program from Germany that connects him to his past. There are &quot;bankers&quot; in this new Moscow, and trade is in full swing. There are Audis, markets, chemical bombs, and charming Party-members who look like movie stars and get along with Americans because Americans love people who look and act like they do. The murder of a  Jewish banker-informer takes Arkady and his partner to the outskirts of Moscow, to a collective farm that has not done much farming, to a Volvo (&quot;a compact, well-made car&quot; as Arkady thinks while looking for his partner) and to Stalin's villa. From there, right before the August putsch, Renko will go to Germany after the trail of the Russian mafia, after &quot;Red Square,&quot; after the voice he listens to on the radio every night, alone in his apartment.<br />Full of intrigue and with a great plot, &quot;Red Square&quot; is also the most romantic of the Arkady Renko novels. Again, where so many of the genre writers fail miserably, Smith soars: the love between Arkady and Irina is poignant, believable, adult, and a bit childlish at the same time; the dialogues are realistic; the description is never trite or tired, but vital and fresh. Once again, Smith proves that he is not only a  good genre writer who can churn out a superior mystery novel, but a great writer, period. In Arkady Renko he has created a person, not just a character, and his prose flows with ease. In &quot;Red Square&quot; Smith mixes the reality of the August coup and the barricades with the story of Arkady and Irina, and the pursuit of the truth regarding the deaths of an informant, a policeman, an affable Trabant-lover, and the smuggling of art. A Russian in Germany, a poor man from a poor country in arich country not known for its hospitality to others, the real victors and the real losers from World War II, all this is part of the intricate but rewarding story of &quot;Red Square.&quot; Whatever else Martin Cruz Smith decided to do with his detective in the next novel (&quot;Havana Bay,&quot; most of which I did not approve of), he created a very tough-to-follow act with his Renko trilogy: genre novels, detective stories, that are well-written and presented with respect to the reader. These are true rarities in the crowded, low-quality mystery shelf. &quot;Red Square,&quot; like &quot;Gorky Park&quot; and &quot;Polar Star&quot; before, stands out as top writing by a top writer.	2001-03-12
US	50200290	R2F7QMOYUQMT0T	0345367650	641383212	Polar Star	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Again, above the rest.	The second novel in the Arkady Renko series is the one I actually read first. Renko has escaped his enemies by going to work in a factory ship, the 'Polar Star.' Here, he will have to use his talents to solve the murder of a young Georgian (Soviet Georgian, that is) woman who had been in contact with Americans. As in &quot;Gorky Park,&quot; the Americans are not portrayed too kindly, which only adds realism to the story. The most extraordinary thing about this book is the absolute control that Smith has of its setting. Once again the author has proven that he can not only tell an interesting tale, but that he can do it with enviable talent: the ice, the cold weather, the trapped ship, the people who lie to Renko for their own reasons, the plots within plots, all of this is masterly interwoven by Smith with apparent ease. Although &quot;Polar Star&quot; does not advance the story of Arkady and Irina (for those with a touch of the romantic in us), it does provide the credible setting for the investigator's return home, opening the way for the third book. The Renko novels are all good, even if the fourth one goes against my romantic streak, and Smith only proves that he is one of the best American writers today, period.	2001-03-09
US	50200290	R32RDNVB6L8KMI	0345367650	641383212	Polar Star	Books	5	48	51	N	N	Again, above the rest.	The second novel in the Arkady Renko series is the one I actually read first. Renko has escaped his enemies by going to work in a factory ship, the 'Polar Star.' Here, he will have to use his talents to solve the murder of a young Georgian (Soviet Georgian, that is) woman who had been in contact with Americans. As in &quot;Gorky Park,&quot; the Americans are not portrayed too kindly, which only adds realism to the story. The most extraordinary thing about this book is the absolute control that Smith has of its setting. Once again the author has proven that he can not only tell an interesting tale, but that he can do it with enviable talent: the ice, the cold weather, the trapped ship, the people who lie to Renko for their own reasons, the plots within plots, all of this is masterly interwoven by Smith with apparent ease. Although &quot;Polar Star&quot; does not advance the story of Arkady and Irina (for those with a touch of the romantic in us), it does provide the credible setting for the investigator's return home, opening the way for the third book. The Renko novels are all good, even if the fourth one goes against my romantic streak, and Smith only proves that he is one of the best American writers today, period.	2001-03-09
US	50200290	R1NUH86YESV6SQ	0345298349	941873607	Gorky Park (Arkady Renko Novels)	Books	5	123	125	N	N	Perhaps the best of its genre	I often return to \\"Gorky Park.\\" I almost didn't go there at all. The film was not very good, although I liked Joanna Pakula. One day I read \\"Polar Star\\" (literally in one day, since I could not put it down) and I was hooked: I had to read \\"Gorky Park.\\" Almost ten years later, I think I've read it ten times. I can always spare a day or two for one of my favorite books.<br /><br />Welcome to the world of Investigator Arkady Renko, whose superiors use him, whose wife doesn't love him, whose country is like an insane asylum where the patients have the run of the place and sane people like Renko do the best they can. This is a great mystery novel, but the level of Smith's writing puts him far above the level of what we expect from \\"genre\\" novels. His characters became real people for whose fate I really cared. His plot is complicated but not overwhelmingly so. He does not trick the reader. And his detective, the militia investigator Arkady Renko, is one of the most memorable detectives in fiction: smart without being pedantic, intelligent, patriotic (yes, our Arkady truly loves his country), loyal to his friends and the woman he falls in love with. This is not the picture of a perfect man, but that of a basically good man. Renko is believable in his feelings and attitudes, and that is due to Smith's talent. Also thanks to the author we get an almost Dickensian description of Moscow and the inner workings of criminal investigations in the old Soviet Union. I felt I was in Moscow, and I finished reading the book truly caring for the characters in it, particularly Renko. Smith's novel is powerful, well-written, engaging, insightful, and a lesson in how talented writing can be applied to genre fiction for the benefit of everyone involved. \\"Gorky Park\\" and the other Renko novels are so far above genre, they make the rest look really bad, and they provide hope for genre novels in general: talent should not be divorced from entertainment. Excellent read.	2001-03-09
US	50200290	R1Y3Q3ILLS1W9A	0393093328	976358997	Bleak House (Norton Critical Editions)	Books	5	124	133	N	N	Magnificent House.	This is the second book by Dickens I have read so far, but it will not be the last. &quot;Bleak House&quot; is long, tightly plotted, wonderfully descriptive, and full of memorable characters. Dickens has written a vast story centered on the Jarndyce inheritance, and masterly manages the switches between third person omniscient narrator and first person limited narrator. His main character Esther never quite convinces me of her all-around goodness, but the novel is so well-written that I just took Esther as she was described and ran along with the story. In this book a poor boy (Jo) will be literally chased from places of refuge and thus provide Dickens with one of his most powerful ways to indict a system that was particularly cruel to children. Mr. Skimpole, pretending not to be interested in money; Mr. Jarndyce, generous and good; Richard, stupid and blind; the memorable Dedlocks, and My Lady Dedlock's secret being uncovered by the sinister Mr. Tulkinghorn; Mrs. Jellyby and her telescopic philanthropy; the Ironmaster described in Chapter 28, presenting quite a different view of industralization than that shown by Dickens in his next work, &quot;Hard Times.&quot; Here is a veritable cosmos of people, neighbors, friends, enemies, lovers, rivals, sinners, and saints, and Dickens proves himself a true master at describing their lives and the environment they dwell in. There are landmark chapters: Chapter One must be the best description of a dismal city under attack by dismal weather and tightly tied by perfectly dismal laws, where the Lord Chancellor sits eternally in Lincoln's Inn Hall. Chapter 32 has one of the eeriest scenes ever written, with suspicious smoke, greasy and reeking, as a prelude to a grisly discovery. Chapter 47 is when Jo cannot &quot;move along&quot; anymore. This Norton Critical is perhaps the best edition of &quot;Bleak House&quot; so far: the footnotes help a lot, and the two Introductions are key to understanding the Law system at the time the action takes place, plus Dickens' interest in this particular topic. To round everything off, read also the criticism of our contemporaries, as well as that of Dickens' time. &quot;Bleak House&quot; is a long, complex novel that opens a window for us to another world. It is never boring and, appearances to the contrary, is not bleak. Enjoy.	2001-03-07
US	50200290	R27X7WZI803L1D	0140441220	30753055	Iphigenia, Phaedra and Athaliah (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	16	18	N	N	Brevity and depth in a great tragedy.	According to my class' notes, Barthes said that there is a law about Racine's tragedies: A loves B. B does not love A. B is under A's control. This is a simplistic approach that sort of works, but &quot;Phaedra&quot; is far more complex than a simple letter soup. Hippolytus is not totally under Phaedra's control, since he decides not to tell Theseus what has really happened between himself and his stepmother. This makes him noble, but less than brilliant. Phaedra is guilty of a passion she cannot help, and turns her guilt into criminal acts by accusing Hippolytus of either lecherous intent or outright rape, depending on how one reads her words. Theseus is a cad who projects his own behaviour onto everybody else, so he immediately believes the worst about his son. And Oenone is a snake, the personification of bad counsel who does not even begin to pay, with her own suicide, for the tragedy she has helped unleash. Racine has created a masterpiece of brevity and passion, following the example of his much admired Euripides. It is clear after reading &quot;Phaedra,&quot; that his work goes far beyond the simple A-B-C of Barthes, and into deep psychological development of characters who make fateful choices based on their passions. This is a great play by a great playwright.	2001-03-07
US	50200290	R1WQPP1HSEH9LR	0486278042	841295270	Antigone (Dover Thrift Editions)	Books	5	18	20	N	N	Still very powerful.	&quot;Antigone&quot; is that kind of literary work that invites opposing views. The state and the individual, the duties to family and country, the boundaries of legitimate government and the extent of personal choice, are all elements that find a voice in this play, an extraordinary gift of Western culture to the world. The young and stubborn Antigone finds herself breaking the law that her uncle, the old and stubborn Kreon, has enacted. This is Oedipus' family, so there must be bloodshed. The conflict develops out of the vengeful and, ultimately foolish law that Kreon has come up with, which denies burial rituals to one of Antigone's brothers (Polyneices) because he had sided with foreigners and made war against his city. Antigone claims that Justice (diké) tells her to care for her brother's body in spite of his treason. This is what Kreon, blind with hatred, cannot see. Just as Oedipus, and even worse, Kreon imagines conspiracies where there are none, and is convinced that the entire city is seething with traitors waiting for a signal to bring him down. With such a state of mind, he charges against Antigone, and she is very much her father's daughter: she will not bow before her uncle although the consequences are grave. Kreon represents the state, but a state whose laws are capricious at best, and simply bad and hurtful at worst. Antigone is not easy to love or like: she is bent on following a path that will lead to her death, welcoming such a release from the terrible burden of being who she is: daughter of her brother Oedipus and granddaughter of her mother Jocasta. But Antigone's own prickly character makes her struggle all the more admirable, since it is so dificcult to like her. It would have been relatively easy to create a soft, misunderstood heroine who dies for her convictions. Antigone is a strong woman who knows perfectly well what she is doing, but feels she has a duty to do it. She is harsh toward the timid Ismene, and unsparing of Kreon, the ruler who seems to be a far better warrior than a governor. I know there are readings of this play that see Kreon as representing &quot;democracy&quot; (he asks the chorus to lead him when they go after Antigone, attempting to prevent her death), while Antigone would represent the corrupt values of the reactionary aristocracy that puts family before civic duty. I think this is a serious misreading of a very important play: Kreon is no more democratic than Antigone; they are both immersed in a power play: she from an apparent position of weakness, although she is strong, and he from an apparent position of strength which he tries to reinforce with harsh measures and words toward those who dare violate his laws. Antigone is no &quot;reactionary.&quot; Her father had been Tyranos (ruler without the negative connotations of tyrant) in Thebes, which is exactly the same position that Kreon holds now. If Antigone is an aristocrat, so is Kreon, Jocasta's brother. If Antigone only sees duty toward her family (she actually sees duty &quot;mostly&quot; towards her family), Kreon is deranged in power, believing that vast conspiracies are at work and that only he stands between order and utter chaos, a common feature of dictators great and petty. His law regarding the body of Polyneices violates the sphere of female duty (women were in charge of the rituals for the dead), and spills into the netherworld, ruling against a dead man who has paid with his life for his acts. This law also punishes Antigone and Ismene just for being family: they cannot even mourn Polyneices. Clearly this is not the working of &quot;democracy&quot; in our modern sense of the word, but neither it is the faulty, deeply troubled democracy of the Greek city-states. The chorus tells Kreon that he can enact such laws and condemn people to death because he is the ruler, but it does not tell him that he is right. To see Kreon as defender of democracy and Antigone as a reactionary woman who has no civic duty is tofind obscure meanings where there are none. Sophocles is quite clear at the play's end regarding what was right and who was wrong. This is a political play, written and produced in a highly sophisticated and political society 2500 years ago. It is obvoius that &quot;Antigone&quot; has lost none of its power and ability to make us debate, ponder, and discuss laws, government, individuals, and those who rule over them.	2001-03-07
US	50200290	R1V1K5YRXZC1ZY	0451458060	152947981	Down to the Sea (Lost Regiment, Book 9)	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Here we go again!	We are back at the world that Forstchen has created, this time twenty years after the events that were described in book 8, &quot;Men of War.&quot; The challenge this time are the Kazan, of the same race as the Hordes, but more advanced, and the resurgent, although weak, Bantag, still led by Jurak. An innovative element is the entire Kazan culture, with a secretive and powerful religious sect that manages to be more dangerous than the Kazan emperor, and this sect's daring experiment in biological manipulation and religious braiwashing of humans. There are some elements from earth's modern military history that play out well in the novel, like the controversy between the advocates of a battleship navy and those who pull for a carrier navy (big guns against planes), and most of the new characters are engaging. There are problems with &quot;Down to the Sea,&quot; though, and the four stars reflect those problems. For starters, the introduction on the back cover refers to a Lieutenant Michael O'Brien who is captured by the Kazan. Maybe he was, but this character does not appear in the book at all. The two who are captured are O'Donald's son and Richard Cromwell (Tobias Cromwell's son), who ends up being the hero of the story. Other points have to be addressed: there is a certain implausibility with so many of the Republic's landmarks and even warships named after American Civil War battles. After wars such as the ones described by the author in which humans confronted the Hordes and millions died, the American Civil War should be a fading, almost quiet memory for the men from New York and Maine. It is not very convincing that the newest, biggest battleship of the Republic is named &quot;Gettysburg,&quot; since so many battles in this New World have been far costlier than Gettysburg, and have meant far more to the natives. English as the official language is convenient but, again , not convincing: millions speak Russian, Greek, Latin, Chinese, etc. English as imposed from above would be a struggle. Still, I liked the book. For all my complaints, this is the best series going right now. Besides, at the rate the Republic is advancing, space will soon be their next endeavour.	2001-03-07
US	50200290	RQU0QNQ29KURH	0451523377	821153252	Dracula (Signet Classics)	Books	5	5	5	N	Y	The curse of the name.	I was not prepared for &quot;Dracula&quot; when I decided to read it ten years ago: the movies on the subject had spoiled my expectations and maybe even skewered my perspective. I gave it a shot mostly because I was snowed in that weekend in Virginia. That was one hell of a weekend. &quot;Dracula&quot; proved to be far better than any of the film adaptations had even insinuated: dark, eerie, very effective in epistolary style, unabashed in its thesis of the Easterner who threatens the good Victorian (Western) ways of decent people, and seduces young women who are, mostly, very willing to be led astray. The topic of Eastern menace-Western defense is an old one (&quot;The Iliad&quot; is one example, &quot;Medea&quot; another), but Stoker creates a singularly powerful character in his Transylvanian Count who must drink human blood to stay alive for centuries. The author got his inspiration from Countess Bathory and Vlad Tepes &quot;The Impaler&quot;, this last one a true hero in Romania. The originals were far bloodier than the literary creation, but Dracula's grip on our imagination is due to Stoker's way of dealing with his peculiar vampire: this is a truly evil being. None of the redeeming qualities presented in films are in the book. Dracula simply charges ahead and, when things turn out badly, retreats to his land. The romantic hero is a creation of screenwriters and filmmakers. Count Dracula, as Stoker made him, is a gothic horror character, and one of the most memorable ones. Unfortunately, Stoker became a hostage to his creation. But in writing &quot;Dracula&quot; he created more than a horror story, or a memorable character: he managed to create a lasting monster that has gone far beyond the horror genre to become a cultural phenomenon. Do not let the unusual (for us) epistolary style throw you off this excellent work: When compared to most of today's popular literature, &quot;Dracula&quot; rules.	2001-03-07
US	50200290	R34ICQXC4G3Z8O	0892552301	167765645	The Book of the City of Ladies (Revised Edition)	Books	5	37	41	N	N	Great book and great fun	This is the third time I write a review for this book. The previous reviews never made it. Here I go again:<br />From an age when women were expected to play a silent and obedient supporting role, Christine de Pizan demonstrates that intelligence and grace are very useful allies. One of the first women that we know of to write professionally in order to make a living, Christine's life was a mixture of privilege and loss. Her &quot;Book of the City of Ladies&quot; is definitely our net gain, though, since we can appreciate the beauty of well-applied talent. The author set out to write a history of women from the female perspective, giving us a different view of many famous (plenty of them mythical) women who have served as scapegoats for damaging stereotypes that perpetuated misogyny in traditional history, literature, and philosophy. Thus, Pizan deals with Queen Dido in a manner different to that adopted by Virgil, and Lavinia --who does not say a word in &quot;The Aeneid&quot;-- rules as a queen according to this &quot;Book of the City of Ladies.&quot; Medea receives some help from Pizan's editing (there is no mention of the princess of Colchis killing her children to punish Jason), Circe gets in just 14 lines far better press than with Homer, and even female characters from Boccaccio's &quot;Decameron,&quot; like Ghismonda and Lisabetta, are described from subtly better angles, particularly Lisabetta, who proves to be an intelligent woman who uses deduction to find out what had happened to her lover, and doesn't need a ghost to tell her, as in the &quot;Decameron.&quot;<br />Pizan's book is a pleasure to read. I recommend a certain background in some of the works she based her own text (&quot;Odyssey&quot; by Homer, &quot;Aeneid&quot; by Virgil, &quot;Metamorphoses&quot; by Ovid, some of the classical Greek tragedies by Aeschylus, Sophocles, and Euripides, the &quot;Decameron&quot; by Boccaccio, etc.), in order to better understand the author's point in writing such a book. I was fortunate anough to have gone through a Fall 2000 quarter when I had to read these works, plus others. For the more casual, although discriminating reader, Christine de Pizan should be a new, welcome light over known subjects. It is interesting to note that her book had not been translated into English since 1521, a neglect of 461 years until this 1982 version by Earl Jeffrey Richards. This neglect speaks eloquently about the attitudes sorrounding a woman's attempt  at writing her version of history. Read Christine. She will not disappoint you.	2001-02-14
US	50200290	R33WAX4PRBBZTL	0253200016	272121911	Metamorphoses	Books	5	11	16	N	N	Of changes and eternity.	Ovid, the Roman poet who was exiled by Octavian (Augustus) to the limits of the Empire and died far from Rome, wrote this poem of changes and love as a way to poke a little fun at the epic poems so much admired by the emperor himself (Homer's &quot;Iliad&quot; and &quot;Oddyssey,&quot; and Virgil's &quot;Aeneid&quot;) and by that previous generation of serious Romans who had lived through the Civil Wars and appreciated Law and Order, even if it included the deification of Julius Caesar. Ovid was younger and not one for much Law and Order or brand-new deities. He was a lover of people and nature, and he sought to find immortality with his work. Here in his &quot;Metamorphoses&quot; is Daphne running away from a lusty Apollo and turning into laurel to escape her pursuer. Here is Ulysses, once again depicted as a sweet-talking liar who benefits from other people's efforts. Here is Adonis, the most beautiful man, product of the illicit union of a father (who didn't know it was illicit) and his daughter (she did know, and you have to read it to get it). Here is Perseus, son of Jupiter and Danae (the god turned into golden rain to get to her), who killed Medusa from whose severed head was born Pagasus, the winged horse. Here is the story of Tereus, Procne, and Philomela, which, if written today, would cause an uproar from plenty of people concerned with family values.<br />     Ovid was an original and a bit of a rebel. He paid the price with exile, but left us great love poems and this, his masterpiece of Creation-myth-history all wrapped into one wonderful package. In the Epilogue of this work, Ovid wrote that after his death his &quot;Metamorphoses&quot; would live on, and through the centuries it would make him immortal. Two thousand years after his death, we are still reading him, and enjoying his talent. He was as good a prophet as he was a poet.	2001-02-06
US	50200290	R887VQ1CQPF6T	014044114X	30170986	Confessions (Penguin Classics)	Books	3	9	11	N	N	The Aeneid of the Faith	The North African sinner who becomes a bishop and, eventually, a saint, retraces several of the most important steps that Aeneas took in his journey to Italy in order to help in the construction of what he later called &quot;The City of God,&quot; a spiritual city that would replace the glorious, albeit decadent, city that Aeneas had been so fundamental in creating (at least in myth). There is plenty of myth in the creation of the Catholic Church, as well, but these &quot;Confessions&quot; are a revelation into the workings of faith in the mind of an intelligent and extremely influential man. Many of the pitfalls that he considers sins we would call childlish pranks or, at the most, indifference. His philosophical pursuits end up convincing him that the only way, the only truth, and the only revelation worth pursuing is that of the faith. I do not agree with Saint Augustine, but I admire the flow of his prose and the candor of his confessions. The content has obviously been edited by the author in order to convince the readers (his parish and those he expected to convert) that even extraordinarily great sinners such as himself could be illuminated by the light of God. This was fantastic Public Relations for the Church at a key time when it was still competing against paganism in many forms and even adopting certain pagan attitudes. The problems pile up soon after Saint Augustine's childhood, though. This is not a book that glories in misogyny, but one where the absence of significant women apart from the author's mother implies a space that was not filled properly. Besides, it relies heavily on the teachings and works of Saint Paul, a man not known for his love of women. Saint Augustine doesn't care very much for the woman who was with him in his pre-faith days, and he parts easily with her: I don't even remember if he provides her name. The death of his son with this woman causes him pain, but nothing that can't be handled in a few lines. Saint Augustine's concernsare elsewhere, in books that if do not help the reader get closer to God, are not good at all and should not be read. The author is enthusiastic regarding censorship, which is curious to say the least, given his mention and knowledge of &quot;The Aeneid&quot;, going so far as to structure most of his book in the way that Virgil structured his poem (North Africa-Carthage, a woman delaying him, voyage to Italy, and, for the departure from Virgil's &quot;Aeneid,&quot; the return to North Africa to preach and bring the word of God to the non-Europeans like himself). &quot;Confessions&quot; is a testimony of faith and a guided tour by the man who feels that his faith is the most important thing in the world for him. Unfortunately, he also advocates the idea that the Church must make sure that faith and a Christian life are the primordial, if not unique, goals of everybody else. In the &quot;Confessions&quot; it is clear that a penchant for religious intolerance is very much part of Saint Augustine and of his Church. He cannot conceive his faith without eliminating books that do not conform to religion and, by omission, he doesn't see much of a place, or a reason, for women at all. &quot;Confessions&quot; is a good place to start in order to move on to &quot;City of God,&quot;, his defense of the Church against the charge that it was one of the many factors that helped in the infamous sacking of Rome in 410 A.D. It would also help to read the history of the period (as in history of the early Church, or just history of the late Roman empire), in order to know the background that the author, because it was his time, takes for granted. This is a book of faith. I am a non-believer. It is an important and interesting document, however, especially if we consider how influential Saint Augustine of Hippo became in Church teachings and doctrine, which became dogma after a few centuries. The doings and reasons of the Church of the Middle Ages cannot be understood without understanding Saint Augustine, and to understand him we must read his &quot;Confessions.&quot;	2001-02-03
US	50200290	REVOJ0QFSS61E	0060931957	627065254	The Odyssey of Homer	Books	5	87	100	N	N	The stuff that heroes are made of?	This Lattimore translation of &quot;The Odyssey&quot; was the first book I read last quarter for my Comparative Literature class, and it became a preview of coming wonders. I had neglected the old classics out of ignorance and prejudice (these two tend to go together) and &quot;The Odyssey&quot; was one of those books that forced me to look at an entire collection of genres and literary epochs in a different, far more positive way. I do not know Greek, therefore I cannot say whether the translation is absolutely faithful to the original, but it flows well when read silently and it sounds even better when I read it aloud, alone at night. This is the story of Odysseus, King of Ithaka, Captain of the Greeks, who must return to his homeland and his family after helping defeat the Trojans. Amazingly enough, many people seem to have bought entirely into the idea of Odysseus as a noble, courageous, and honorable leader of men who gets sidetracked solely because of the wrath of Poseidon. I finished this poem with an entirely different view of its protagonist. To me, Odysseus was an arrogant liar, a murderer and a rapist who did not hesitate to attack people who were not his enemies (the Kikonians on his way back after sacking Troy and killing and/or enslaving most of its people, as reads in Book IX, page 138), and who did not hesitate to endanger the lives of his men just to boast of his deeds (same Book, page 150). This &quot;hero&quot; eventually makes it to Ithaka and ends up drenched in the blood of the suitors of his wife, ordering the torture and death of the serving women who had become lovers of the suitors. His son Telemachos becomes a murderer as well: he kills a man by stabbing him on the back with a javelin. Since the suitors represented the youth of Ithaka's noble families, Odysseus has arranged to create a blood feud with everyone on the island. Only the intervention of Athena will save the day, and after all the bloodshed, all the lies,  the pillaging, and the murders, he leaves Ithaka and Penelope once more to wander in other lands and thus follow a prophecy regarding his own death.<br />&quot;The Odyssey&quot; is a great poem. It is never boring and only after reading it complete one understands how little the film and TV productions kept of the original work, and how poorly we have been served with such adaptations. My reading of this timeless classic is rather different to that of other people who may have much better qualifications in this area. What I got out of it was the impression that Homer, whomever he was, used irony to drive home a message regarding his &quot;hero,&quot; and this irony, together with the folklore that surrounded the Trojan War and its participants, helped Euripides, by the Fifth century BC, paint a far more direct and damaging picture of the Greek victors in his &quot;Trojan Women.&quot;<br />I now consider &quot;The Odyssey&quot; necessary reading. Even if you read it and arrive to a different understanding of the poem, I think it will be an extremely valuable experience.e murders, he leaves Ithaka and Penelope once more to wander in other lands and thus follow a prophecy regarding his own death. <br />&quot;The Odyssey&quot; is a great poem. It is never boring and only after reading it complete one understands how little the film and TV productions kept of the original work, and how poorly we have been served with such adaptations. My reading of this timeless classic is rather different to that of other people who may have much better qualifications in this area. What I got out of it was the impression that Homer, whomever he was, used irony to drive home a message regarding his &quot;hero,&quot; and this irony, together with the folklore that surrounded the Trojan War and its participants, helped Euripides, by the Fifth century BC, paint a far more direct and damaging picture of the Greek victors in his &quot;Trojan Women.&quot;<br />I now consider &quot;The Odyssey&quot; necessary reading. Even if you read it and arrive to a different understanding of the poem, I think it will be an extremely valuable experience.	2001-01-29
US	50200290	R1VJ2Y130VEEJ4	0553213393	904052489	Inferno (Bantam Classics)	Books	4	12	16	N	N	See you there when it's over.	At the rate I'm going, I'll be in one of those circles of hell eventually, but since I'll be in such good company (all of late 13th century Florence, for starters) I don't think I can complain. In spite of Voltaire's opinion, I believe Dante is still read today, as was in Voltaire's time, because people find something of value in this, his most famous poem. The entire &quot;Commedia&quot; consists of two more books, the &quot;Purgatorio&quot; and the &quot;Paradiso,&quot; which I have not read. I'll read them eventually, but, for the time being, I am quite happy with the &quot;Inferno.&quot; The Florentine poet grabs Virgil as a guide that will take him out of the dark woods where Dante found himself wandering because he had lost the way of his life, and together they will go in a journey through Hell because the divine Beatrice has commanded that Dante must be led, so his eyes and heart can be opened and he can be saved. If this is true, I hope she is wrong, because I would like to talk to Dante, and if he goes to Paradise I would have no chance at all.<br />The &quot;Inferno&quot; is one of the most important poems ever written. Doomed lovers, murderers, traitors, liars, Dante's political enemies (including a Pope), righteous heathens, all of them have Hell as their final address. Dante talks to many of them, and they tell him their stories. I loved this poem. I found Odysseus where he belongs (with the liars), and Dido and Cleopatra, together in suicide. Most of all, I found an arrogant, self-centered Florentine poet who truly believed that the world revolved around him and wrote a monument of Western Literature just to prove it: I had to like Dante and his poem. The only reason I give this version four stars is because I do not think it is as good as the verse translation by Laurence Binyon. I have read both by now, and the old Binyon rendition of Florentine Italian into English is simply beautiful, where Mandelbaum's more businesslike version is clear if rather unpoetic. I wish a Binyon's version were available, but his translation of the Commedia seems to be out of print and I am the only person I know that has the &quot;Divine Comedy&quot; translated by Laurence Binyon. Still, I read the Mandelbaum for class and I enjoyed it almost as much as my favorite one. Whichever translation you choose (Ciardi's is in rhyme verse, too, while Musas's is not) I think you will enjoy this dark, wonderful journey that Dante took in 1300. If he is right about his poetic vision of the netherworld, most of us will be there in one circle or another, with medieval Florentines all around us. Enjoy.unpoetic. I wish a Binyon's version were available, but his translation of the Commedia seems to be out of print and I am the only person I know that has the &quot;Divine Comedy&quot; translated by Laurence Binyon. Still, I read the Mandelbaum for class and I enjoyed it almost as much as my favorite one. Whichever translation you choose (Ciardi's is in rhyme verse, too, while Musas's is not) I think you will enjoy this dark, wonderful journey that Dante took in 1300. If he is right about his poetic vision of the netherworld, most of us will be there in one circle or another, with medieval Florentines all around us. Enjoy.	2001-01-29
US	50200290	R1OK5B5MO8HRT8	014044629X	981115146	The Decameron (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	24	24	N	N	100+1 tales= a great book.	I had to read a good part of &quot;The Decameron&quot; last quarter and I have gone back to read more stories from it even though the Fall quarter is over. This is a great book: funny, entertaining, subtly revolutionary, insightful, and superbly well-written. Approach it without fear. It is a Classic, but it will have you laughing, thinking, and learning far better than any current best-seller. Anyone with an interest in journalism and/or history will profit from Boccaccio's Introduction, at the beginning of the First Day. His description of the Plague in Florence is vivid and gripping, and this eventually provides the background for the setting of the one hundred and one tales that seven young women and three young men will narrate in a villa away from the dying city. Also, the Introduction to the Fourth Day presents the reader with an unfinished, but hilarious story about a man who has been kept away from women. This story is what my teacher called the 101st, and I have to agree with her.<br />     Do not think that all &quot;The Decameron&quot; deals with is sex. The mostly illicit sexual encounters depicted are some times funny, sometimes sad, but they share a common trait with the stories from the Tenth Day, for example (these ones are mostly about sacrifice, abnegation, and servitude), or with those of the Second: Boccaccio's concern for his society and the terrible tensions that had reached a breaking point by the 14th century. The Plague, in Boccaccio's universe, acts as a catalyst of emotions, desires, and changes that had to come. <br />     Read, then, about Alibech putting the Devil back in Hell, Lisabetta and her pot of basil, Ser Ceperello and his &quot;saintly&quot; life, Griselda and her incredible loyalty in spite of the suffering at the hands of a God-like husband, Tancredi and his disturbing love for his daughter, Masetto and the new kind of society he helps create with some less-than-religious nuns, and then it will be easier to understand why Boccaccio is so popular after 650 years. And although it may be skipped by most readers, do not miss the Translator's (G. M. McWilliam) introduction on the history of &quot;The Decameron&quot; proper, and that of its many, and mostly unfortunate, translations into English. This book is one of the wisest, most economic ways of obtaining entertainment and culture. Do not miss it.	2001-01-28
US	50200290	R14RE95JSWTX84	0553210416	58983679	The Aeneid of Virgil (Bantam Classics)	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Arms, the man, and the poet.	This is another one of the books that I had to read for Fall quarter 2000. Like the rest of that group, &quot;The Aeneid&quot; was just extraordinary. My teacher's smart choice of the Mandelbaum translation was good to my pocket and to my mind, since it is accessible and clear. I actually prefer parts of the Fitzgerald version (especially the unusual beginning &quot;I sing of warfare and a man at war...&quot;), but I read the Mandelbaum because it was easier to follow the lectures using the same book everyone else had. Mandelbaum does a great job of translating meaning and feeling from Latin to English, and from the world of Virgil 2000 years ago to our world. The Glossary helps a lot, and the Introduction is instructive and very candid: not every day a major scholar tells us he had intentionally neglected a major work of literature simply based on the biased opinion of others. After reading &quot;The Aeneid&quot; I am convinced that Augustus did the right thing in ignoring Virgil's wishes, even if in his treatment of Ovid he was too harsh. This version of the poem should introduce a fascinating literary work to those who have never read it (like me before Fall 2000), and hopefully interest many readers in other works of Classical Literature. The destruction of Troy, Queen Dido and her tragic fate, the clash of cultures in Italy between the invading Trojans and the native Latins, the descent into the netherworld, the gods playing with humankind, the mythical foundation of Rome, the controversial progression of Aeneas from man to ruler to symbol who sacrifices part of his humanity in order to achieve the mission that has been determined for him, all this forms part of one of the greatest epic poems of all time. &quot;The Aeneid&quot; is war, and men, and a poet who believed that Rome, in spite of all her faults, was a prize worth saving and preserving. Augustus thought the same of Virgil's poem.	2001-01-28
US	50200290	R3E2S1R3348FRJ	0316955167	132306747	The Winds of War	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Wouk has written a winner.	&quot;The Winds of War&quot; has almost everything in it: action, love , adventure, espionage, intrigue, and it manages to tell a story within a  historical context that will, hopefully, lead readers to the appreciation  of history itself. The greatest strength of the book is in Wouk's style and  in his magnificent main character, Victor &quot;Pug&quot; Henry, who gets  to be in the right place and at the right time to provide us with the best  parts of this novel. Anothe strong, important character is Nathalie  Jastrow, the Jewish girl who finds herself trapped in Europe when the war  erupts. I did not care much for the extremely benign portrayal of President  Roosevelt: the White House's policy toward the Jews remained unchanged  throughout his mandate, so I cannot see him as some sort of closet-champion  of the Jews. Another character who got in my nerves was Aaron Jastrow. This  one was stupid, obstinate, blind to the danger looming over him and his  family, and too convinced of his own scholarly achievements to see past his  arrogance. True, many Jews were like that, didn't leave Europe in time, and  paid dearly when the nazis got to them, but Jastrow's character felt like  nails on a blackboard: not at all pleasant. As a counterpoint, authors do  not have to write only about pleasant characters. Still, this book moves  fast, entertains, and informs. Wouk seems to have a far-too-rosy idea of  the US Navy and of the US at war, but that is understandable and, who  knows: he may be right and I am probably wrong. His book, though, will  leave you wanting more and, for that, stay tuned because &quot;War and  Remembrance&quot; is on the horizon.	2000-08-17
US	50200290	R3SH3DTEZXJVV9	0446600962	983312383	Midshipman's Hope	Books	1	11	17	N	N	Bad, bad, bad.	It isn't a boring book. It isn't badly written, either. Its hero hates himself and practically all those around him, and the elaborate ruses to  put him in command are forgivable, if absolutely implausible. But this is  not what earns &quot;Midshipman's Hope&quot; one star with me, although it  did help in the final count. It is the lack of knowledge and the pretense  of such that made me almost reegret that I was wasting my time with this  book. Science fiction is beautiful when well done. If you want space opera  there are plenty of good titles out there. If you want more hard science,  there is Hogan, Bova, even Brin sometimes. But Feintuch gives us a  religious bigot living in a world of fanatics worshipping some sort of  pseudo-Christian God in a Space Navy run like the worst nightmare of the  18th century British Navy, with corporal punishment, hangings, and pious  invocations to God while commiting murder. Feintuch doesn't criticize this  world. Through his hero we are supposed to understand it. And his hero is  the typical reluctant hypocrite who apparently doesn't want any power  himself, but will go to any lengths just to stay in power. By the end of  the book, after a lot of wrong science and big words to hide ignorance of  basic physics, we are treated to a giant amoeba in space that also travels  faster than light and envelops the ship, thus saving the crew and our  all-important little captain. Deus ex machina in the form of a space blob!  I expect cheap plots and wrong science from TV and from movies. But a  science fiction novel can be so much more than this book. I may be too  harsh and I haven't read the rest of the series. But this first Seafort  adventure doesn't promise anything better for the other books by Feintuch.	2000-08-17
US	50200290	R38HP5LPER2VS5	0446600962	983312383	Midshipman's Hope	Books	1	8	18	N	N	Bad, bad, bad.	It isn't a boring book. It isn't badly written, either. Its hero hates himself and practically all those around him, and the elaborate ruses to  put him in command are forgivable, if absolutely implausible. But this is  not what earns &quot;Midshipman's Hope&quot; one star with me, although it  did help in the final count. It is the lack of knowledge and the pretense  of such that made me almost reegret that I was wasting my time with this  book. Science fiction is beautiful when well done. If you want space opera  there are plenty of good titles out there. If you want more hard science,  there is Hogan, Bova, even Brin sometimes. But Feintuch gives us a  religious bigot living in a world of fanatics worshipping some sort of  pseudo-Christian God in a Space Navy run like the worst nightmare of the  18th century British Navy, with corporal punishment, hangings, and pious  invocations to God while commiting murder. Feintuch doesn't criticize this  world. Through his hero we are supposed to understand it. And his hero is  the typical reluctant hypocrite who apparently doesn't want any power  himself, but will go to any lengths just to stay in power. By the end of  the book, after a lot of wrong science and big words to hide ignorance of  basic physics, we are treated to a giant amoeba in space that also travels  faster than light and envelops the ship, thus saving the crew and our  all-important little captain. Deus ex machina in the form of a space blob!  I expect cheap plots and wrong science from TV and from movies. But a  science fiction novel can be so much more than this book. I may be too  harsh and I haven't read the rest of the series. But this first Seafort  adventure doesn't promise anything better for the other books by Feintuch.	2000-08-16
US	50200290	RM5WNS0I5YJ27	0345344901	575023332	The Great Dying	Books	5	9	12	N	N	Fascinating	This is the book that could make a geologist out of me, yet. I read it more than a year ago and, because of it, I have gone onto read more and  very serious scientific literature regarding evolution and geology. Hsu is  candid, entertaining, clear, convincing, and always educative. His  assertion that the theory of evolution has been used to justify racism and  racist policies took me by surprise and I chose not to believe it until,  forced by the excellence of the book to admit that the author could have a  point regarding evolution, I checked on Darwin's history. The realization  that Darwin was a consumate racist didn't come as a total surprise --most  Europeans were at the time--. But the fact that he had designed a great  part of his theory to fit his own ideas regarding the superiority of the  white &quot;civilized&quot; people against those who were  &quot;darker,&quot; &quot;barbarian,&quot; and &quot;uncivilized&quot;,  made me see how this man could have been blinded by his own prejudices.  Evolution may have happened and probably did, but Hsu presents a very  strong case for chance, accident, and pure luck playing a much more  important role than the one reserved for them by the established scientific  community. His ideas run contrary to the accepted wisdom of evolution,  which requires a great amount of time for the mutations to take place, and  which didn't take into account the presence of catastrophes in the make up  of life. Nevertheless, Hsu has demonstrated that catastrophes play a  pivotal role in deciding who dies and who lives as, when the most famous of  extintions --but not the largest-- happened about 65 million years ago, the  life forms most superbly adapted to the planet, the dominant species of  that time, were wiped out most probably by an object impacting Earth and  suddenly changing the conditions under which the dinosaurs had been  successful. The school of catastrophism has traditionally been dismissed as  nonsense by the neo-Darwinist ideologues that dominate our curricula and  books. Perhaps this extraordinary work, so faithful to the scientific  method and so superb in its scholarship, will contribute to promote more  exchanges of ideas in the scientific community. This is, after all, the  basis of good science.	2000-08-16
US	50200290	R13MBXWW40T3F7	0671865412	543869927	Sign and the Seal: The Quest for the Lost Ark of the Covenant	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Great Detective Story.	This book deals with one of Archaeology's most interesting mysteries, but one that is rarely acknowledged as so, since the Ark of the Covenant is  assumed to be legend by the Archaeological establishment. And Graham  Hancock, who has by now made a career of challenging Academia's sacred  cows, shows with &quot;The Sign and the Seal&quot; that to find answers it  is necessary sometimes to get out and go places, like Ethiopia, which turns  out to be a fascinating country of which I knew next to nothing. Hancock  retraces the history of that culture, including the very probable presence  of a strong Jewish influence millenia ago (otherwise it is difficult to  explain how the Ark came to be kept in Ethiopia). The author's argument is  convincing and reasonable. This does not mean that it is true, but it means  that he has done an honest job, put his case forward, and made it available  to us. We must decide. I had not given much thought to the Ark beyond going  to see the movie by Spielberg. If it exists, though, it would be a  fantastic discovery, and it might still have a surprise or two for us to  learn. Read the book with an open mind. This one is not as challenging as  his next best seller &quot;Fingerprints of the Gods,&quot; but it shows a  Graham Hancock already interested in mysteries that have been with us for a  long time and for which the established scholars tend to have established  -and mostly ludicrous- answers. It is good that the author knows what  happens when you &quot;assume&quot; this or that. Starting with this point  of view, he goes on to walk his own path, to show what he uncovers, and to  reach his own conclusions. Just for that he is to be commended. He writes  well, too, and his books are interesting. That doesn't hurt. &quot;The Sign  and the Seal&quot; is a good mystery. Enjoy and get your own answers.	2000-08-12
US	50200290	R3O625MFZ6IHO0	0451457706	435165083	Men of War (The Lost Regiment #8)	Books	5	6	7	N	N	The Last One?	I have read the entire saga for the second time from book one to book eight. For little more than a week I left Earth and went to Forstchen's  world to live his characters' agonies and triumphs, to worry about the  Republic, the Rus, the Roum, the Chin, even the Cartha and, yes, the  Tugars, with Muzta leading them as best as he could. But, most of all, I  went back to see the Yankees once more transforming a planet like stranded  messengers of the best that the human race has to offer. &quot;Men of  War&quot; is the end of this saga and I was elated and sad. the Republic  wins, but it's not a smashing victory: this one, like all the other ones,  will be obtained paying for it with thousands of lives, making terrible  mistakes, letting friends die to win hours that may prove to be crucial.  Forstchen, a master story-teller, weaves his tapestry from different angles  to achieve a rational conclusion, but one that leaves several doors open,  including that of more sequels.<br />Jurak, the troubled, almost noble leader  of the Bantag, is back, bringing with him all the revulsion at a segment of  his race gone barbarian, and feeling, apparently, all the guilt that a  mamber of the hordes needs to feel at what has been done for thousands of  years in that world. Keane is back, too. Not in top form (and one doubts he  will ever be in top form again, given the ghosts he had to face in order to  lead once more), but even at 80% Keane is better than most. A nice touch is  the mention --almost literal-- of a poem by Keats, in page 11, that goes  &quot;I know that I shall meet my fate/ somewhere among the clouds above;/  those I fight I do not hate/ those I guard I do not love...&quot; (The poem  is &quot;An Irish Airman Foresees His Death&quot;), but in this case it is  Jurak who remembers such a poem from his own homeworld.<br />A dear character  will be lost at the beginning of the book, another at the end. &quot;Men of  War&quot; has an air of closure that, although not total, seems to invite a  continuation in the less immediate future. The problems with the names will  continue, as well. This does not bother me very much, but I think it  requires more attention. Father Casmar becomes Casmir, and Marcus Licinius  Graca is mentioned now as Crassus, which does not make much sense. I have  already mentioned the Jamul/Jurak problem. These are details, but they  might distract readers from the better parts of the books.<br />&quot;The Lost  Regiment&quot; comes to an end. Or does it? I'm not clairvoyant. I have  inside information, so, cheer up: we will see more of the Republic yet.  &quot;Men of War&quot; is the end of a story, not the end of  &quot;the&quot; story. Happy reading.	2000-08-12
US	50200290	R24N5LM0EN2X83	0451454669	715279802	Never Sound Retreat (The Lost Regiment #6)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Very good transition.	Tanks and machine guns. Ha'ark has been forced to attack the Republic before he was absolutely ready, but the Republic buckles under pressure.  This time both armies are modern and their leaders understand modern war.  Also, expect the unexpected from Hans, who will turn the tide once more. A  very interesting aspect of the series is how fallible Keane is. He inspires  his people, but makes terrible mistakes that must be payed for with lots of  blood later on. This destroys him little by little. Forstchen manages to  make him very human, very far from a legend, and closer to what people  really are. This book is transitional. Not as spectacular as those before,  it still is very good and sets the stage for more to come. Also, a new  major character is developed: the tank commander Timokin. And since  Ferguson is dead, the technological edge that the Republic could always  count on seems threatened. Read on.	2000-08-11
US	50200290	R3KDJZRZFGGKUU	0451451961	297553754	Fateful Lightning (The Lost Regiment #4)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Scorched Earth.	Four amazing books so far. Or, if you prefer (As I do), one very long book, a sort of &quot;War and Peace&quot; of the sci-fi genre. No matter  how you look at it, this developing tale by Forstchen only gets better. He  is not afraid to kill off some of his main characters to add realism to the  story, and he is not afraid to surprise the reader with tactics that are  rather unexpected. &quot;Fateful Lightning&quot; presents a massive  migration of Rus toward the land of Roum, pursued by the relentless Merki  hordes. The humans will burn the land behind them, poisoning wells and  setting traps for their foes, so that by the time of their final  confrontation we can realistically see that the Merki, in spite of their  great superiority in numbers, are overextended and will not be able to  withstand a severe blow from the humans. The humans are at the end of their  rope, too, but one of the most endearing characters in the series will have  a shot at saving his people by refusing to obey orders. And Muzta, one of  my favorite characters, will also have a chance to save his own people.  Again, the battles are almost unforgettable: the horror of war, the worst  of men, and the most noble in them is presented by Forstchen in a gripping,  spectacular way. Hawthorne becomes a sort of Dark angel of the battlefield,  and the Roman Marcus figures as a key participant by now. Four out of four.  And it only gets better.	2000-08-11
US	50200290	R28K3WNHE1QL8G	0451450604	856334934	Union Forever (The Lost Regiment #2)	Books	5	12	13	N	N	The Navy's Turn.	Second book in the &quot;Lost Regiment&quot; series, this one is a winner, too. In what could turn out to be a very clever plot device, the author  presents the new horde, Merki, waging war by proxy against the Republic,  using as pawns the humans from Cartha. This is naval warfare, and the  shifty Cartha will prove tough customers in all the novels to come. New  major characters are developed here, among them Bullfinch, who goes from  being the only Navy man to leave the ship at the end of &quot;Rally  Cry&quot;, to become Admiral of the Republic's navy. Also, we get insights  into Tobias' motivations, and there is some redemption, as well. Ferguson  starts to prove that he is a engeneering genius, and both Hawthorne and  Keane will see parts of themselves that they don't like. A very good, fast  read. There are several typos and a little confusion in the names, but,  overall, still an excellent Bloody New World. When it comes to sheer  emotion in battle, Forstchen outdoes everyone else in the field.	2000-08-11
US	50200290	RPUJ5K7BYL2C0	0451457056	328084243	A Band of Brothers (The Lost Regiment #7)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	The still darker side of courage.	Keane is hurt and that changes him. The leader of the humans becomes the most deeply human of the lot, forced to face his fear and his guilt, while a vicious street by street fight erupts in the city of Roum, from the sewers to the buildings. The Redeemer shows himself as a less than ideal tactician, reacting to the circunstances more than creating them, which is actually what has been documented as real war, where combat is changing and fluid. Hans will end up leading &quot;his&quot; people, the Chin, into battle against the Bantag with little more than their hands. This is stirring writing, which appeals to our emotions as much as to our rationality. This alien world is very possible, and the technology to get there is part of theoretical physics, with wormholes between universes and/or galaxies, or sectors of galaxies, and the reversion of the hordes to primitive nomads after their ancestors &quot;walked between the stars.&quot; &quot;A Band Of Brothers&quot; manages to keep the suspense alive just at the moment (the seventh installment) when most series that last this long wind down and either die, or crawl ahead to ever-diminishing interest. By shifting the focus and by making his characters more fallible and, therefore, more human, Forstchen has written a dark, different winner.	2000-08-11
US	50200290	R1UVETGZOMPU73	0451452860	184120405	Battle Hymn (Lost Regiment, Book 5)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	From a New Angle.	OK, so, I knew Sgt. Major Hans Schuder wasn't dead when I wrote the review  for &quot;Fateful Lightning.&quot; But I didn't know it when I read the  book so, hoping that you will read these books in chronological order, I  think my review kept the spirit of the novel by not revealing everything.  This one is absolutely different. &quot;Battle Hymn&quot; is a vision of  the Gulag on an alien world. Whereas &quot;Fateful Lightning&quot; gave us  the terrible sacrifice of the Cartha, &quot;Battle Hymn&quot; shows us the  enslavement of the Chinese, and others, with whom Schuder is now living.  Major new character is Ha'ark, the Redeemer and, very important as well, a  Zulu warrior friend of Hans. There will be a bit of confusion with come  names. As in ther past, with Vuka's brother, in this book a companion of  Ha'ark is named Jamul, but in the future will be referred to as Jurak. I do  not know the reason for this. It may be an oversight, or it may be that  these new commers have chosen to make their names more palatable to the  natives. Still, all books have errors. The soul of this series is its  conflict, big as a planet and enduring as the machines that transported the  Yankees to a New World of War. Most of the book concentrates on the efforts  by Hans and his confederates in escaping, the help they get from the  Republic, the problems that the traitor Hinsen creates, and the menace that  Ha'ark, with his modern, futuristic vision of warfare, means for the  survival of humans on Valdenia. Suspenseful, filled with the heroics and  folly of war that Forstchen has turned into a trade mark, &quot;Battle  Hymn&quot; also introduces the tank into the series.	2000-08-11
US	50200290	R14M3PA9498E0F	0451451376	893551116	Terrible Swift Sword (The Lost Regiment)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Cliffhanger.	War is changing in Forstchen's world. Good! This sort of war without prisoners, without mercy, a war of total anihilation, gets to be a little  more modern still by the end of &quot;Terrible Swift Sword.&quot; Keane  will make a decision that will buy his Republic time at the price of tens  of thousands of lives. The enemy will also understand that things cannot go  back to be the way they were before the Yankees arrived. &quot;Terrible  Swift Sword&quot; moves fast, like all the other noves in the series, and  is an absolute cliffhanger. Again the Cartha are trapped (part their fault,  part fate) between mortal enemies who will use them mercilessly to gain  advantage. And Muzta of the Tugars will become one of the most interesting  aliens ever. The Republic hangs from a thread. The folly of its leaders is  balanced by their intelligence during the worst of times. One of the best  things about this series is that, in spite of showing humans as the  &quot;good&quot; guys, the author presents many of our species as what we  are so good at producing: murderous, selfish, cowardly men who have a tough  time accepting responsibility for freedom. This book prepares the way for  an epic fourth installment of scorched earth. Excellent.	2000-08-11
US	50200290	R35A9Y9VGYRQ8V	0195089782	712739260	The Dream that Failed: Reflections on the Soviet Union	Books	4	12	12	N	N	The jury is still out.	It was a dream that almost from its humble start turned into a bloody nightmare, and it did fail, but it's too soon to declare that as if  Communism were not poised for acomeback in the former Soviet Union or in  Eastern Europe. If it does come back we may not get to see, at least for a  while, its inevitable Stalinist face, with gulags, forced labor, terror,  and wholesale murder of political and class enemies. But that will happen  in time and with a former KGB man running things in Moscow and  ex-Communists back in power in the &quot;Near Abroad&quot; and Eastern  Europe, any epitaphs about Communism are in too early. Walter Laqueur says  this much in his analysis, but the title of his book is a bit misleading.  There are plenty of Communists out there and the ideology is attractive to  a lot of people from very different backgrounds, so a resurgent Russia that  swallows the Near Abroad and &quot;protects&quot; Eastern Europe is a very  real possibility. <br />This is a good book, but you must be prepared to go to  the Notes pages constantly. By far the best part is the author's exposure  of the so-called &quot;experts&quot; from the West who got it so wrong  regarding the Soviet Union, not only about its implosion (they are not  clairvoyants, after all), but in their total analysis of the system.  Laqueur presents most of these experts as what they are:  ideologically-motivated men and women of the Left that could not bring  themselves to see the rotten system they were supposedly studying. When  they saw the truth, they camouflaged it or ignored it because they were  attracted to such a system.<br />I was disappointed in the exclusion of Dmitri  Volkogonov and the very brief mention of Roy Medvedev from among the Soviet  scholars who seriously attempted to bring light to a very dark subject. Of  especial consideration is the case of Volkogonov, whose biographies of  Lenin, Stalin, and Trotsky leave no doubt that the troika in whose hands  rested the destiny ofmillions in Russia and beyond was a corrupt,  power-hungry confluence of liars, murderers, and fanatics. Laqueur ignores  Volkogonov. Almost equally ignored is Robert Conquest, barely mentioned in  a rather vague form. Perhaps the author wanted to concentrate on the lousy  ones, like Getty, Fitzpatrick, Lewin, Sanders, and others. Still, honorable  mentions to those who courageously wrote the truth and were right about how  bad Communism (in all its variants: Leninist, Stalinist, Trotskyist) really  was would have been a valuable epilogue.<br />In spite of these minor  problems, this is a highly recommended book, especially to use as a guide  in order to detect the so-called fellow travellers (Lenin called them  &quot;Useful Idiots) like Carr and Deutscher, or the inexcusably bad ones  for being apologists, like Brand, Schlesinger, Ward, Davies, etc. Also, for  those interested in the subject, an article by Robert Conquest for the  &quot;Times Literary Supplement&quot; of London and reproduced by the  &quot;National Review&quot; of July 15, 1996, is very good additional  material. In it, Mr. Conquest has one or two things to say about Robert W.  Thurston's book on Stalin &quot;Life and Terror in Stalin's Russia,  1934-1941.&quot; I would suggest reading Laqueur's book first, and then  Conquest's article.	2000-08-09
US	50200290	R14DFR2PPQBKSO	0060981032	313766150	The Closed Circle: An Interpretation of the Arabs	Books	5	232	245	N	N	A Closed Circle, indeed.	This book is a very distressing work. The author starts with a thesis and never lets go, analyzing almost every aspect of his chosen subject --the  Arabs-- from social, political, sexual, literary, artistic, and other  perspectives, reaching the conclusion that people are what they are, and  that our attempts at rationalizing the behavior of societies that are  totally alien to our own must end in absolute disapointment if not outright  exasperation. The cultural weight of centuries rests on the Arabs and  Pryce-Jones uncovers layer after layer of myth, folklore, history, lies,  and the western folly of seeing Western problems and solutions mirrored in  Arab realities, projecting onto a different people sets of values and  accepted norms of behavior that are just not part of their lives. For the  first time I have read an author that tells me something I suspected from  my admittedly limited dealings with Arabs in 12 years: they understand  power, but democracy escapes them as an absurdity. Any sort of sexual  liberation that goes beyond the cosmetic (and even that is pushing it) is  not bound to happen any time soon in the Arab world. Without it, any sort  of &quot;democracy&quot; they may have will never be more than a mirage, a  photocopy of the original. Their family lives are deeply dictatorial, and  so is their social life. They will abase themselves in front of those seen  as superiors, and they will humiliate those seen as inferiors. Any other  treatment is alien. This is what makes this book disturbing: I have read  other books on the subject and I see the coverage of news from that area of  the world, and now I realize how deeply wrong those assessments are.  Pryce-Jones understands politics in the Arab world as power-plays and  power-grabs. He is right. The sooner we realize that, the easier it will be  to deal with this reality.        There are errors. The worst one is that  the author insists on putting Arabs, Turks, and Persians in the same bag.  Theymay, overall, share a common religion, even considering the Shi'a-  Sunni rift, and the many other divisions inside the Muslim world (Alawites  and Druzes being just a part of this deeply divided group), but they are  not the same people. The book is subtitled &quot;An interpretation of the  Arabs&quot;: it should have been exactly that and leave Turks and Persians  alone or, if the author really wanted to include these other peoples, the  subtitle should have been changed. Also, the actor Omar Sharif is described  as &quot;not an Arab, but a Coptic Christian.&quot; Well, there are plenty  of Arabs who are also Christians. Sharif is an Egyptian. That makes him an  Arab. End of the argument. Still, these points are not enough to demerit a  very courageous work that dares to present the views of the author as they  are. These views, I feel, are very much true.	2000-08-05
US	50200290	RTR31Q8IOHXGZ	0451450078	856122782	Rally Cry (Lost Regiment, Book 1)	Books	5	39	41	N	N	The best in a long time	This book almost defies description: a magnificent adventure novel, a science fiction novel that manages to be intelligent and to include true science and wonderful fiction, a military fiction novel with some of the best battle scenes I have ever read, &quot;Rally Cry&quot; is the opening  shot in the &quot;Lost Regiment&quot; series and one of the best reads in  any genre you'll find in the last decade. One of the most troubling aspects  of science fiction -a genre I really like- is the simplistic treatment that  most authors give their books, and their cavalier attitude toward the  reader. Even authors with scientific background, like Asimov, wrote wrong  science, as in &quot;Nightfall&quot;, or dealt with insipid plots and flat  characters that were mere copies of other characters. Forstchen has used  stereotypes here, too, but his way of dealing with them is far superior to  that of other writers. His Union Regiment lost in a world where humans are  food to the native inhabitants, and where the Yankees spark a revolution  that eventually reaches planetary proportions, is not only entertaining.  It's intelligent, as well, with solid documentation of industry and  warfare, and a very credible alien society of nomads. The best is, perhaps,  the idealism of some of those Yankees (and Forstchen), who see their  country as what it should be and fight for it, and also die for it.  Stranded in a hostile world, these bluecoats will turn out to be the titans  all countries want but few get. And their cause, to free people from  serfdom and slaughter, is a magnified vision of the most noble aspect of  the American Civil War, whose origins were somewhat removed from freedom  itself, but that ended up becoming a war where a country almost tore itself  apart in order to get rid of slavery. Forstchen knows that and is proud of  the New England tradition of patriotism and freedom. His extraordinary  science fiction, adventure, military history book is a homage to those who  fought for the ideal of making this country a better place.	2000-04-19
US	50200290	RT2SSE80MKWBD	0393303853	521862268	The Poems of Wilfred Owen	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Not to be missed	Indeed, this is a book not to be missed by those who love poetry. Owen's verses are mostly gut-wrenching lines that will burn images in your brain, but that is good, particularly next to other poems that we may have been  familiar with, where the idea of war is an &quot;ideal&quot; and soldiers  are knights who know no fear, who are immune to death and pain. Owen's war  is different: the men die like rats in the trenches, in their own vomit,  and glory and honor are not enough to protect agaist mustard gas. That the  poet perished in that war is only a final irony in the short life of a  sensitive man who saw too much in too short a time. Excellent.	2000-04-19
US	50200290	R2SQY6QK5LF21N	0878915214	600044085	Handbook of Mathematical, Scientific, and Engineering Formulas, Tables, Functions, Graphs, Transforms	Books	5	9	12	N	N	A friendly monster	It has 1011 pages, not including index, and it runs all the way from algebra (special products, partial fractions, matrices), to elementary analysis, geometry, trig, logarithms, hyperbolics, series, derivatives,  integrals, differential equations, special functions, and more than 300  pages dedicated to applied science data: physiscs, chemistry, biology. One  of the things I really liked about this book is that it has a table with  all the prime numbers from 1 to 100,000. All you have to do is look for the  suspect! You forgot an obscure solid volume formula? It's here. Dealing  with differential equations? They are listed here by kind (Exact,  Bernoulli's, Reducible, etc), faced with their method of solution. I am not  an engineering major, but this was too much of a temptation. Not everything  is here, of course: your brain is still where you left it, but this  handbook is a very good ally.	2000-03-27
US	50200290	R80LTZI9YA34I	0939010275	561523585	The Complete Poems of Anna Akhmatova	Books	5	3	3	N	N	An extraordinary book by a great poet.	Finally, the poems of one of my favorite authors are out in one book, and what a book this is! For lovers of graceful, touching, heartfelt poetry, but also for those who are interested in that period of Russian history  between the twilight of the Czars and the horror of Stalin, Akhmatova's  poetry covers a very wide spectrum. She wrote of love and nature. She wrote  about and for her friends. She wrote about her personal tragedies and the  tragedy of her country. If you have never read Akhmatova, do yourself a  favor and discover her in this magnificent translation by Judith  Hemschmeyer: translating poetry is particularly tricky, but the job is  superbly done here, because it feels as if the author had written her  verses in English, not Russian. If you like what you have read, or if you  already appreciate Akhmatova's style and are interested in more about her  life, nothing better than the book by Roberta Reeder on Anna Akhmatova.  Reeder has also edited this volume and her love for the work of a great  poet is evident. These &quot;Complete Poems&quot; are truly complete and  satisfiying, ordered chronologically, supported by biographical material,  photographs, and an astonishing section of notes. A book for the poetry  lover in us, and also a book for the student. I must also say that the  translation of &quot;Requiem,&quot; my favorite poem by Akhmatova, is one  of the best I have read. My only complaint has to do with the binding: this  is a paperback, and we all know what happens to paperbacks, and at 948  pages this one may break fairly soon. My advice is to buy it nonetheless,  and also buy one of those plastic, self-adhesive covers on sale in most big  bookstores, protect the book with it and, as an additional touch, put one  more layer of the hard plastic on the spine, so it'll reinforce it better  and your book will last a lot longer. At least that is what I did with my  copy and after almost two years it still looks new. So, a great collection,  indeed, by a great poet, and by people who truly cared about her art. Five  stars is the maximum, but I would give it more.	2000-03-16
US	50200290	R1HF4JZ7X3JHJD	0553273914	934590882	The House of the Spirits	Books	1	47	76	N	N	Fast read, Marxist slant, Garcia Marquez cloning	Although I am Chilean and I could have read this book in Spanish, I borrowed the English translation from the library. Wise decision: I really would have hated to buy it. The book is relatively easy to read because  Allende is a good story-teller, and she must have taken Magic Realism 101.  All the fantastic, impossible wonders we can find in a Garcia Marquez's  novel, are found here, right down to the Marxist view of the universe with  flat, unidimensional characters that are all good or all bad. The good ones  are leftists, the bad ones are fascists. If one or two bad ones change in  the end, it's because they have suffered and find themselves closer to the  left, therefore now they are good. The simplistic description of Chilean  history in the 20th Century will capture the imagination of those who don't  know Chilean history, and will satisfy those who, politically, agree with  Allende regarding the basic goodness of Socialism. The author has done a  superb job at convincing readers that her fictionalized account of decades  in the life of my country is an accurate one: plenty of people have told me  that most -or all- of what they know about Chile comes from this book. No  wonder they can't understand Chilean reality. Even if you do away with all  the Garcia Marquez-inspired sections (quite a lot), the end result is still  a nasty message that tells us that Chile would have been happy with  Socialism, and that only Yankee-imperialists and their friends in Chile  killed that wonderful hope for my country. Incredibly enough, there are  many people who agree with such a message. Isabel Allende has written that  Chile was on its way to Paradise when the bad guys showed up. She is either  blind to the reality of Socialist countries and the disasters that all  Socialist experiments caused in every country they ruled, or she knows  perfectly well that reality, but has managed to apply doublethink in a  truly clever example of mental gymnastics. The one star her book gets from  me is because she really can tell a story. But her political message is  poisonous.	2000-03-14
US	50200290	R35Z7CKJOXSV37	080502378X	977259737	The Collected Poems, 1952-1990: Yevgeny Yevtushenko	Books	5	26	27	N	N	Four decades of talent.	This 650-plus page volume does not cover the entire poetic work of Yevgeny Yevtushenko until 1990, but it comes close. Not all his collected poems are here, either: selections from from &quot;Bratsk Station&quot; and excerpts  from long poems such as &quot;Under the Skin of the Statue of Liberty&quot;  and &quot;Ivan the Terrible and Ivan the Fool&quot; reduce a bit the scope  that we are presented with, although not the quality. His most memorable  poems are here and the translation is excellent. What I like the most about  Yevtushenko is that he is capable of writing good, even great poetry, from  an absolutely opposite perspective to mine. He was, for most of his life, a  convinced socialist, a man who really believed in the &quot;human  face&quot; of socialism and even in that catchy word  &quot;internationalism&quot; that the old autocrats in the Kremlin liked so  much. Life seems to have made it very plain to him that the dream had  always been a nightmare. But his poems are still here and one of the  reasons why Yevtushenko hasn't been swept away like many of the so-called  poets who sang for the Soviet regime, is that he never did that. He  believed in socialism, but he could write &quot;Russian Tanks in  Prague&quot; and tell the truth about the Soviet invasion of Czechoslovakia  in 1968. A very long poem, included in this collection, is &quot;A Dove in  Santiago: A Novella in Verse,&quot; where he attempts to understand and  explain, from a socialist point of view, the events in Chile, 1973. He  fails, but he is not the first one to get it wrong (most non-Chileans have  gotten it wrong) and he, at least, does it with a lot of talent. I don't  agree with Yevtushenko's socialism, but I can't help liking his poetry.  &quot;Babii Yar,&quot; also included in this book, is an ode to the Jews  murdered by the nazis in a ravine, and violated a second time by the  Soviets who covered up the crime because the Moscow government was deeply  antisemitic. Yevtushenko writes about all this. He writes an elegy for New  York and starts one of his poems with the verse &quot;Moscow believed my  tears...&quot; This is a versatile poet, a man who has visited places and  has the talent to tell us his version of what he has seen in an original,  beautiful manner. Yevtushenko is far more accessible than some of the more  modern Russian poets, but accessibility does not mean less quality. On the  contrary, his poetry is clear, honest, passionate, direct, and articulate.  My only regret regarding this volume is the absence of my favorite poem by  Yevtushenko: &quot;On the Death of a Dog.&quot; Other than that, his talent  shines through this compact, affordable book, with poems such as &quot;The  City of Yes and the City of No,&quot; &quot;Stolen Apples,&quot;  &quot;White Nights in Archangel,&quot; &quot;Zima Junction,&quot; &quot;The  Heirs of Stalin,&quot; &quot;Requiem for Challenger,&quot; etc. As soon as  the book becomes available, buy it: you won't regret it.	2000-03-09
US	50200290	R3QMMMYRHMH49O	0674076087	63813983	The Black Book of Communism: Crimes, Terror, Repression	Books	5	285	306	N	N	Absolutely necessary	This book could have been a lot longer. It could not have been any shorter, though: it takes a brick of a book to really provide the crushing scope of this murderous ideology, and the authors have slowly, methodically, relentlessly added example after example to put in display,  naked, a monster that killed tens of millions in the 20th Century and that  will continue to kill (one hopes in a far smaller scale) in the 21st until  it wastes itself out and vanishes. Communism became religion and state and  proceeded to murder away as if the body count meant better chances of  achieving that utopian society it pretended to aim at. We now know the  absolute disasters that all Communist societies were -and are-, but this  book is necessary as a ready reference work on evil that should be next to  to William Shirer's &quot;The Rise and Fall of the Third Reich.&quot;  Communism has managed to kill more than 100 million people, and this  estimate is actually quite conservative: Solzhenitsyn puts the figure at 60  million in the former Soviet Union alone; Roy Medvedev opts for 40 million  dead just under Stalin, not counting those who died because of World War  II. Nobody really knows how many millions were murdered by Mao. Many  historians and writers had told us parts of this sad tale: Milovan Djilas,  Alexander Solzhenitsyn, Robert Conquest, W.S. Kuniczak, Aino Kuusinen,  Armando Valladares, Roy Medvedev, Dmitri Volkogonov, and others, so many,  indeed, that a complete list would require several pages. But the authors  of &quot;The Black Book of Communism&quot; do what none of the other  authors had done before: they provide us with a total view of malignity,  proving that, from Russia to Korea, from China to Cuba, from Africa to  Europe, Communism was, indeed, a cancer. An excellent and necessary work.	2000-03-07
US	50200290	RB6HC49Z0BL20	0671633104	886544400	The Siege: The Saga of Israel and Zionism	Books	5	56	64	N	N	From an unexpected corner.	One of the best books on Israel and Zionism, this volume by Irish author Conor Cruise O'Brien deals with a poisonous subject in an intelligent manner, without avoiding taking sides, but attempting, and mostly  succeeding, to understand all sides. Make no mistake, this is a pro-Israel  book, and that is what I like about it. It manages to favor the Israelis in  their struggle, but the author is an Irishman, so, at least, we won't have  to listen to those who accuse anyone that takes a pro-Israel stance of  being a Zionist. O'Brien does not see the Arabs with much benevolence, but  it is difficult to blame him, given his knowledge of both Israelis and  Arabs. His argument is plain from the title: the State of Israel has been  subjected to a &quot;siege&quot; ever since its founding day, and,  actually, the siege has been in operation from before. To the argument, so  many times repeated that some people give it the quality of gospel, that  before the creation of the modern State of Israel Arabs and Jews lived in  harmony and Arabs didn't resent or hate their Jewish neighbors, O'Brien  answers, through argument and solid foundations, that the resentment and  hatred were there before World War I, and found expression in some of the  most violent outbursts of mob action against the Jews ever seen. Of course  not every one hated every one else, but the very powerful seed of dislike  of the stranger, the dhimmi (second class subject in a Moslem land, always  a non-Muslim, and increasingly a Jew, since Christians had powerful patrons  in the nations of Europe) were already there, and so was their bitter  fruit.    Those who do not like Jews will skip this book, since the author  manages to be non-Jewish but very much pro-Israel. However, those who want  to know about the conflict, but do not want to read what they fear might be  &quot;propaganda&quot; from either side, will find much of value in  &quot;The Siege.&quot; It has a clear slant, but that does not invalidate  itsinformation and the conclusions of the author.	2000-03-06
US	50200290	R3JBRG93C84YSG	0671578545	369408226	Ashes of Victory (Honor Harrington #9)	Books	2	10	17	N	N	Very disappointing	Perhaps I chose the wrong moment to read the latest book in the Honor Harrington series. Not long ago I read the last novel of the magnificent series &quot;The Lost Regiment,&quot; by William Forstchen and now I had to  choose this one. I have read all the other HH books, and they are  entertaining, fast reads, even if the joke of transporting the English and  French at the time of the French Revolution 2000 years in the future wears  thin after a very short while: Robespierre and Rob S. Pierre, get it? Cute  for three pages, but no more. Still, the battles made this series, and its  heroine, always larger than life, always, well, heroic. Honor Harrington is  back from Hell and from the dead, and she is... perfect. This woman has no  flaws. She is a billionaire but has no monetary ambitions. She is an  Admiral and wields enormous political power, yet she has no political  ambitions and is just one more loyal servant of her Queen (another perfect  one). She can hate, but her anger and hatred is only toward bad, bad men  and women. She has a pure heart, a soprano voice, a great body, good looks,  youth (prolong), no prejudices, no pride (let's borrow from Austen), no  blemishes of any kind. Her crews adore her, her Queen adores her, her  parents adore her, her cat adores her... Is it only me, or is this way  beyond &quot;cute&quot; even for space opera? I liked the series, but to  read &quot;Ashes of Victory&quot; was like being slapped with the book.  Weber goes on and on about her cat, and her mom (another too cute for words  character), and how terribly embarrassed Honor is to live like royalty, and  have all that money, and have the Queen give her a palace, and have all  those bodyguards ready to die for her, and have all those people think of  her as a heroine when she is just another down to earth woman (yeah,  right). It never ends! The dialogues are terrible, with mock indignation  here and mock shock there, and mock threats, and winks of the eye... I was  ready to enjoy this book. Now I realize I wasted money and time. Honor  Harrington had been perfect ever since she appeared in the first book, but  at least the action saved those other members of the saga. Nothing redeems  this one. I found myself rooting for the Peeps!	2000-03-05
US	50200290	R1VU5WWPLU0D80	0684193906	794163060	Six Days in June: How Israel Won the 1967 Arab-Israeli War	Books	3	27	29	N	N	Should have been better	This book is dedicated exclusively to the 1967 &quot;Six-Day War,&quot; and I bought it with great anticipation. It's not bad, but it should have been much better. Hammel goes into details that enrich the story, but  which, in too many instances, mean very little to the history of events.  His prelude to the actual shooting isn't as clear nor as complete as it was  expected, since he totally neglects the role of Intelligence in mapping the  entire Golan Heights before 1967 and knowing exactly when and where to  strike in the Sinai and deep into Egypt: that part of the war does not  exist for Hammel, and without it Israel would not have won. Also, little or  nothing is provided of the Arab leaders and their associates. Reading the  &quot;Arab-Israeli Reader&quot; by Laqueur and Rubin, it's clear that  Egyptians and Syrians expected a war, were relatively confident of victory,  and were, in the end, totally unprepared for the swiftness and the accuracy  of the Israeli blows. We get very little from Hammel, as if Israel had  acted in a vacuum. The battle sections of the book are good but, again, the  war ended on June 10, 1967, but it did not end, not really. Something more  was needed. There was diplomacy, threats, and total confusion and  incredulity in the Arab world. The book reads fast because it is well  writen, but A.J. Barker's &quot;The Arab-Israeli Wars&quot; does a better  job.	2000-03-05
US	50200290	R2D1XMZKUJ4G5V	0140423532	97132461	The Complete Poems (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	60	66	N	Y	Verses from a friend.	This Penguin collection compares very well with my own Oxford Edition of 1935, and I particularly like the fact that the price is reasonable, so more people may decide to buy the book instead of just getting the two or  three poems available in a typical anthology. Samuel Taylor Coleridge  suffered a lot during his life: unrequited love, drug addiction,  inferiority complex. Yet what a wonderful legacy for all of us fortunate  enough to read his verses. My favorite poem is Christabel and I can't help  picture the entire poem in my mind as if it were a gothic-horror film. The  Ryme of the Ancient Mariner is his most famous work, but all of his other  great and not-so great works are here, too: Dejection, an Ode; To Mathilda  Betham from a Stranger; Kubla Khan; Ode to the Departing Year; The  Nightingale; A Stranger Minstrel, etc. Coleridge represents the departure  from the Neo-Classic and the introduction to the Romantic. He and his  friend Wordsworth are pivotal in achieving that change. His religious poems  may seem odd to a modern reader, but mysticism was nothing new back then,  and the man was trying to make sense of his very difficult life, anchoring  his hopes in his religion. Anyone who purchases, or borrows, this book,  must know that hundreds of pages worth of poetry tell us a lot about the  poet, since we are reading his life's work. Excellent book dedicated to the  labor of a great author, and at a very convenient price. If you like the  Romantics, or are interested in the period, this is a book for you.	2000-03-05
US	50200290	R2N3ESDF15JEP7	0939010275	561523585	The Complete Poems of Anna Akhmatova	Books	5	67	67	N	N	An extraordinary book by a great poet.	Finally, the poems of one of my favorite authors are out in one book, and what a book this is! For lovers of graceful, touching, heartfelt poetry, but also for those who are interested in that period of Russian history  between the twilight of the Czars and the horror of Stalin, Akhmatova's  poetry covers a very wide spectrum. She wrote of love and nature. She wrote  about and for her friends. She wrote about her personal tragedies and the  tragedy of her country. If you have never read Akhmatova, do yourself a  favor and discover her in this magnificent translation by Judith  Hemschmeyer: translating poetry is particularly tricky, but the job is  superbly done here, because it feels as if the author had written her  verses in English, not Russian. If you like what you have read, or if you  already appreciate Akhmatova's style and are interested in more about her  life, nothing better than the book by Roberta Reeder on Anna Akhmatova.  Reeder has also edited this volume and her love for the work of a great  poet is evident. These &quot;Complete Poems&quot; are truly complete and  satisfiying, ordered chronologically, supported by biographical material,  photographs, and an astonishing section of notes. A book for the poetry  lover in us, and also a book for the student. I must also say that the  translation of &quot;Requiem,&quot; my favorite poem by Akhmatova, is one  of the best I have read. My only complaint has to do with the binding: this  is a paperback, and we all know what happens to paperbacks, and at 948  pages this one may break fairly soon. My advice is to buy it nonetheless,  and also buy one of those plastic, self-adhesive covers on sale in most big  bookstores, protect the book with it and, as an additional touch, put one  more layer of the hard plastic on the spine, so it'll reinforce it better  and your book will last a lot longer. At least that is what I did with my  copy and after almost two years it still looks new. So, a great collection,  indeed, by a great poet, and by people who truly cared about her art. Five  stars is the maximum, but I would give it more.	2000-03-01
US	50200290	R1WI1DQD86TZNH	0312065094	740745230	Suez	Books	1	11	31	N	N	Buried under the Bias	Keith Kyle, the author of this long book (656 pages, index included), manages to turn an interesting topic into a boring review of details within details that, ultimately, tells us he has done his homework searching for  the last document in the darkest corner of some British archive, but has  failed at keeping the reader's inrterest or his objectivity as a writer  intact. The Arab-Israeli conflict is one where objectivity is wished for,  although never attained. Kyle pretends to attempt objectivity and then  slides into partisanship without even noticing or, at least, not wanting  the reader to notice. His stance is very much against the joint  Anglo-French-Israeli invasion of Egypt in 1956, and he can't be faulted for  that. A colossal blunder on the part of two former important powers, it  served Israel in its limited security concerns and, ironically, it also  helped the Egyptians and Colonel Nasser. That strange war humiliated the  British and caused the downfall of the English Prime Minister, Anthony  Eden. However, Kyle strays from here on, and provides the reader with  hundreds of pages of obscure documents and his own &quot;insight&quot; and  opinions, which can be summarized thus: Israel, dominated by Zionists (this  is supposed to be an insult) suckered the British Empire and the French  Republic into a fight where they could not be winners, only to help its  ailing economy and tell Nasser, in the starkest terms, that war with the  Jewish State was extremely serious. Kyle wants me, and the rest of the  reading public, to be as outraged as he is about this, and I can't help but  smile. Whether Israel suckered the two Europeans, or whether it got on the  bandwagon when the decision to wallop Egypt had been taken in London and  Paris, the English and French got what they deserved. Most of Kyle's acid  comments are directed toward the British government and a good portion of  that country's press. However, there is a badly supressed anti-Israel  feeling throughout the book, which is not surprising, given the author's  connection with &quot;The Economist,&quot; one of the most respected  magazines in the world, one that can truly be called  &quot;international&quot; due to the coverage the entire planet receives in  its pages, but one that has a documented history of antagonism towards  Israel and some other countries (most of Latin America, Turkey, South  Korea, for example), while tending to see with very benevolent eyes the  doings of other countries, like Ireland. By antagonism I refer to the  insistence, article after article, in portraying only the bad, rarely the  good, and when the good is discussed, it is peppered with enough negatives  as to render the praise, faint as it was, null. Both the magazine and the  writer suffer from a very British maladie: incredulity at how low England  has fallen in the world rank. Kyle sees the Suez affair as the proverbial  last push that sent the United Kingdom tumbling down the steps, and showed  it as militarily incapable of credible dissuasion outside the British  Isles. Britain was eventually told by Eisenhower to cease and desist in  Suez and the British complied with their patron's wishes. There is the  parallel that Kyle seems to hate the most: Israel also does -mostly- what  the US says. But Israel appears to be quite comfortable with this situation  and is, after all, a country that only 20 years ago became developed  (&quot;The Economist&quot; doesn't recognize this and still lists Israel as  a &quot;developing&quot; nation). Israel has been able to take care of its  wars quite capably. By contrast, England is part of the G-7, one of the  richest countries in the world, and, still, needed all the help it could  get from the United States in 1982 to defeat a third world country such as  Argentina, in a fourth-class war against a fifth-class army. It could have  gone alone against Egypt in 1956, but it needed a ready excuse -separating  the fighting sides, Egypt and Israel- and a willing partner in the deed,  and that was France. Perhaps given what Jewish terrorists did to British  soldiers -and sometimes civilians, as in the bombing of the King David  Hotel- in the last years of the Palestinian Mandate, right before the  Israeli War of Independence and the foundation of the State of Israel, it  is understandable that the author has very cold feelings toward Israelis,  especially the Israeli military, so efficient, so ruthless, so identified  with the Israeli people. But he pretends to be objective. That is just not  true. As I said, nobody is really objective in this particular conflict. I  am biased toward Israel. Kyle's pretension of objectivity and the minutiae  of documentation that nothing adds to the overall picture, although it does  inflate his book, are the main reasons &quot;Suez&quot; gets, barely, one  star with me. But, then again, I, at least, admit that I am biased.	2000-02-03
US	50200290	R2L36NBM2R4UCY	0805250689	632097724	Christn Resp/holocaust	Books	5	5	6	N	N	The Weight of Sorrow	Such a short book. Cargas takes us back to the centuries ofpersecution in order to put the Holocaust in its proper Christian,European context. He then provides us with some of the Nazi atrocities in the format of photographs, usually on the left page, and text usually on the right page. This is a hard book on Christians and many of them will probably not like it. I think it is a necessary book. It's not easy to read without feeling opressed, saddened, angry. I see it as a necessary document for believers and atheists alike. When people -religious or not- let go of their decency and invent dogmas, myths, and lies to preserve their hatred of a particular group, they are only paving the way for hatred to visit them as well. Cargas has written a shattering little book. Such a short book. It is incredible how much it weighs.  END	2000-02-03
US	50200290	R2MBE5JH3B51KA	0025180304	287131375	Half a life, and other stories	Books	5	3	3	N	N	One of the Best	This novella and collection of short stories by the Russian author is one of my favorite science fiction works. He is unusally clear, original, poignant, and human. For a man who wrote this when Communism was not only  Law in Russia, but Religion as well, his prose lacks the political  pollution so typical of inferior Russian works that had to be approved by a  Ministry before they were printed. Bulychev isn't given to flights of fancy  to mask ignorance. His science is proven; his extrapolation of scientific  ideas is believable; and his stories are marvellous. To those who enjoyed  &quot;The Ice People&quot; by Rene Barjavel, Bulychev should be equally  good. If not, well, at least I hope that &quot;Half a Life&quot; and the  stories &quot;Red Deer, White Deer,&quot; and &quot;May I Please Speak to  Nina?&quot; (my favorite ones) will have still proven to be good enough.  Happy reading.	2000-02-01
US	50200290	R2SFSNWPTQ9B4B	0140283617	520659636	The Hundred Years War: The English in France 1337-1453	Books	5	103	105	N	N	From a different perspective	Desmond Seward has written a great, short (270-text pages) book about a conflict that, incredibly, has shaped the relations between France and England ever since, and has influenced the course of history. The English claim to the throne of France started with the Norman Invasion and the  crowning of Duke William as King of England in 1066. Ethnically, the  Normans were Vikings, but they had become French in a cultural way. William  was followed by his descendants, and they formed the Plantagenet Line, to  which some of the most famous and illustrious of English kings belong.  Seward sees the conflict as what it was: the invasion of France by English  troops in a time where loyalties were given to the feudal lord (duke,  prince, king) more than to the country. By the time the war finally ended  in 1453, the concept of &quot;nationalism&quot; was firmly entrenched in  both England and France. Between the years 1337 and 1453, England had won  an amazing string of victories against a bigger, richer enemy, but one that  had been wretchedly led, only to be driven away from France towards the end  of the war. The English despoiled the rich French countryside; they burned  fields; destroyed towns; and, finally, were hated even by those who, a few  decades earlier, had been loyal subjects of their English lords. Seward  focuses this narrative from a perspective to which we are not used: the  French perspective that, honestly, has never received a fair hearing in the  English-speaking world. Of particular interest to me was Seward's  description of King Henry V, the hero of Shakespeare, the hero of  Agincourt, the symbol of nobility..., and a murderer who burned prisoners  alive, who destroyed towns for no reason, who applied a religious  fanaticism to his campaigns and who, instead of being the ideal of a  Prince, was a paranoid, greedy psychopath. Is this an accurate portrayal of  Henry? I don't know. But Seward does provide us with a different look at a  much written-abouthero of the English. Perhaps he is biased, but the  glamorized biographies I have read through the years do tend to pale next  to this work. Still, as with many historical figures, Henry will keep on  being controversial. (And authors do not have to please us every time: I  really did not agree with Seward's biography of Richard III.)  So, as for  the Hundred Years War, the author puts us right there at Crecy, Poitiers,  Agincourt (all extraordinary English victories), and at the counterattack  with Joan of Arc, the betrayal of the French (maybe they did deserve the  English after all), the final push, and the English being sent back to  England, while the French retained France. The French went on to lick their  wounds after 116 years of rape, pillage, and destruction. The English went  on to fight their own conflict, later known as The Wars of the Roses (but  not during the Wars between Lancaster and York), and managed to escape  major retaliation from the wounded French. This conflict, immense in  expanse, extremely important for the future of the world, given the  dominant position of both France and England in a resurgent, imperialistic,  planetary Europe, is seen with French eyes by a man who seems to stand,  sometimes uneasily, on both lands. Excellent book. I hope you enjoy it,  too.	2000-02-01
US	50200290	R23ZCSKP1AAIQL	0688018602	608237611	The Ice People	Books	5	24	25	N	N	Cinq etoiles dans la nuit	&quot;The Night Of Time,&quot; as the title should read, is one of those moving, extraordinary books to which I return time and again long after I've read them. Few books have had that effect in me, but this beautiful  story of a love, a civilization, a chance for humanity, lost under the ice,  has remained with me ever since I read it seven years ago. I will now  suggest a title that may be of interest to all those reviewers who  obviously liked this book as much, or maybe more, than I did: &quot;When  the Sky Fell,&quot; by Rand and Rose Flem-Ath (available at Amazon), which  deals with the very intriguing possibility that something known as  &quot;Earth crust displacement&quot; could have moved all continents and  oceans at once in the past and Antarctica, now frozen, could have been  located at a much more warmer latitude. This is theory, and the authors  have not forced the re-writing of any textbooks, but their idea is  interesting, and they have obtained a lot of data to support it. This book  is not fiction, like Berjavel's, but it ties so neatly with it that I  thought I'd provide those like-minded reviewers of &quot;The Ice  People&quot; with a chance to check a short, entertaining, and also very  fascinating work. So, five stars for Rene Berjavel's book, and  congratulations to all those who have read and enjoyed it. I think it's  difficult to do one thing and not the other.	2000-01-31
US	50200290	R16LSYLTQ4OAOD	0671662414	105963080	O Jerusalem!	Books	5	74	77	N	N	Good, very readable history	Authors Lapierre and Collins  have written a wonderful account of the establishment of the State of Israel. They have talked to people on all sides of the problem (there were more than just two sides) and, although  not impartial, the end result is as gripping as it is  valid. I have said  that the authors have not reached an impartial result, and by this I mean  that they tilt towards the Israeli side. I do, too, to be honest. But  Lapierre and Collins show a lot of professionalism and at least seek  balance. I recommend this title to anyone interested in the Middle East  conflict, together with Dan Kurzman's &quot;Genesis 1948: The First  Arab-Israeli War.&quot;	2000-01-30
US	50200290	R3SGEQEYEOGUTB	0679426620	543344242	Havana Bay	Books	2	13	17	N	N	Sad, disappointing Bay	The Arkady Renko trilogy will always be one of my favorite books. I think of it as one book in three parts and it's right up there in my &quot;Best 20&quot; list. What a disappointment Havana Bay was! After years waiting  for the next Renko installment, Martin Cruz Smith mixes ingredients from  here and there out of his other Renko novels and then proceeds to serve a  cocktail that lacks originality and that most unusual touch: a soul. Call  me a romantic, but I think what moved the other Renko books was himself,  the Chief Investigator, and what moved him was Irina. I don't want to give  away any secrets of the plot (as much as it can be called a plot) but I  felt terribly sad and disappointed when, before page 50, the writer had  decided to eliminate important supports in the structure of the previous  novels. Arkady, who I had come to care about, as all good fiction should do  for its characters, solves another mystery, this time in Cuba, and finds a  woman, and they have an awkward affair, and, in the end, he is left alone.  Smith has decided to take everything away from this man. History got rid of  his country, the author who made him got rid of the rest. After reading  &quot;Havana Bay&quot; I felt I had to do a mental exercise that I had done  before, when the third movie in the &quot;Alien&quot; family came out. In  that occasion, I had to pretend the series ended with the second movie,  because the third one was so bad as to defy description. I have done the  same thing with the Arkady Renko novels, but not very successfully. This  mean-spirited, sad, and ultimately cold thriller, is an undeserved ending  for one of the best characters in fiction of the 20th Century. The two  stars it earns from me are because I was still happy to read about Renko  and because, in spite of cloning his own work, Smith writes very well.	2000-01-30
US	50200290	R2U4C2J5NALXAO	0140283382	468027632	Gravity's Rainbow	Books	5	15	19	N	Y	Although not for everybody.	I first read this book when I was 16, and it was the Spanish translation. Later on, I read it in English, and although I consider it one of the best, most complex books I have ever read, I was a little disappointed in the rest of Pynchon's production. I think he reached his zenith with  &quot;Rainbow&quot; and it has been all downhill ever since. The book is  not easy to read, and the action is not easy to follow, because the author  likes to take the scenic route to enrich our view, so we get the whole  treatment with physics, engineering, strategy, espionage, sex, love, fear,  paranoia, and an assortment of other fields -some strange, some crude- that  provide us with the view of a world gone mad from the prizm of an author  that seems to have been down the rabbit hole once or twice. The only thing  that has always bothered me about &quot;Gravity's Rainbow&quot; is my  inability to understand its ending. I want to believe the author designed  it in such a way that it would be very ambiguous, but I am really not sure.  In any case, a great reading experience, although, reader, beware: those  who look for uplifting messages; those who don't like harsh language; those  who don't like depictions of sex; those who would not be able to read  through very descriptive passages of (one hopes) less than popular and  rather grotesque sexual practices; those who would not continue reading  after the lavishly descripted love scene between a grown man and a twelve  year-old girl; those who dislike &quot;dense&quot;, descriptive literature;  those who don't really go for the stream of consciousness stuff; those who  don't like war books; those who have read this far and already hate the  book and the review; all those potential readers should know that in  &quot;Gravity's Rainbow&quot; you get hundreds of pages of what I have just  outlined, and more. If you don't think you can stomach this list, move on  to other books: there are plenty of good ones out there. This one is good,but not for all tastes.	2000-01-28
US	50200290	R3BS3E8U5T5X7F	0345391780	608322438	The Princes in the Tower	Books	1	35	52	N	N	Zero stars	It would be interesting to know what some of the professional reviewers were thinking when they wrote about this little piece of speculation that pollutes my shelf. I am a science fiction fan. I love speculative fiction  too, like that of Turtledove, or Deighton's \\"SS-GB\\". But Weir is  a historian writing non-fiction and, yet, she has managed to write the most  biased, unsupported by evidence biography of Richard III since, well, since  Thomas More, that \\"contemporary\\" of Richard who was actually five  years old when this drama unfolded (see Fields) and had his own,  home-related reasons for not liking the dead king. As for the motives  behind Weir's assertions that Richard is absolutely guilty and a wretched  ghoul on top of that, I can only say that she has made quite a career out  of heaping praise on the Tudor Era, something many, perhaps most, British  people tend to do. An English Catholic once told me that this is so because  Henry VIII -a Tudor, son of Henry VII who defeated Richard at Bosworth, and  father of Elizabeth I- was the man responsible for making England  Protestant, and, apparently, that is what set the island in a path of  glory, conquest, and renown. This opinion regarding Henry VIII is shared by  British military historian John Keegan, himself a Catholic. I don't know  about Weir's religious affiliations, if any, but it stands to reason to see  her work, and particularly this biography, as an effort to present the last  Plantagenet as a representative of everything bad in England, that was  later turned into good under the new management. Whatever her motives,  though, her biography of Richard III is so tilted against him that  Shakespeare's depiction of the man ends up being better by comparison. Weir  considers worthy of her -and our- belief the testimony of people whose  reputation was less than ideal or, as in the case of Rous, served two  masters with two versions of events; or were not only in the pay of the  Tudors, but lived in a society where to displease the monarch very often  meant death. We may not get the close-to-ideal circumstances of a modern  democracy, but to rely so absolutely on such tainted, biased accounts is  unforgivable for a historian. I bought her book. I read it and put it on my  shelf, right next to Bertram Fields' \\"Royal Blood\\", so I, at  least in my library, could provide the necessary balance she so sorely  lacked in her scholarship. It gets zero stars with me, although 1 is the  allowed minimum.	2000-01-27
US	50200290	R2AAZBG0T3SZ4K	006039269X	307548295	Royal Blood: Richard III and the Mystery of the Princes	Books	5	60	65	N	N	Just the facts.	I remember reading Alison Weir's &quot;The Princes in the Tower&quot; in 1998, in five or six consecutive sittings at a Border's store, and how, in spite of the inherently interesting nature of the work, the author had, in  my opinion, shot herself on the foot between pages 1 and 13, citing the  sources and their credibility. Each source she considered credible, I saw  as totally suspicious, and couldn't believe that a historian would mention  their obvious bias and unreliability and, still, insist that they were  honest, perfectly good sources of information (Rous, More, and others).  Then I found Fields' work on the subject, and this author cast suspicion on  the reliability of those same sources for the same reasons that they looked  crooked to me, so I enjoyed his book a lot more than Weir's because it is  more logical and, in view of the other biographies of Richard III that I've  bought and read since then (Anthony Cheetham's, Paul Murray Kendall's,  Charles Ross's), is far more worried with the real, reliable information,  than with deciding on guilt with less than stellar witnesses, chroniclers,  or Shakespeare fans. True, the last chapter is perhaps unnecessary, but it  serves as a refreshing display of speculation next to a book that has been  nothing but factual evidence, leaving the speculative domain to authors  such as Weir, who has made a carrer out of glorifying the Tudors.	2000-01-27
US	50200290	RJ8Z0IQNWTGX9	0312964013	607402851	When the Sky Fell: In Search of Atlantis	Books	5	149	156	N	N	Uncertain certainties	When William Ryan and Walter Pitman first presented their theory of the Black Sea as a fresh water lake invaded by the salt water of the Mediterranean in a cataclismic event 7,600 years ago, they were laughed at  by the scientific establishment to which they belong as marine geologists.  Today, their theory is accepted as the most probable scenario that explains  the peculiarities of the Black Sea and might also explain the insistence of  so many peoples on the legend of a Flood. Less than twenty years ago it was  taught in schools that Cro-Magnon had killed Neanderthal in a racist war  for control of the planet, but today we are told, with the same certainty  and by the same people, that both groups coexisted for millenia and that  the causes behind Neanderthal's disappearance are unclear. Recently, the  Clovis mind-set of anthropologists and archaeologists in the Americas was  shattered by discoveries in Chile of human habitation 12,000 years ago,  long before Clovis in New Mexico. So, everything about dates in the  Americas, dates set in stone for the die hard crowd of scientists, had to  be revised, although most books still carry the Clovis date because the  shattering information is quite recent. Now this book &quot;When the Sky  Fell&quot; about a new idea regarding Ice Ages and the possibility that  another legend may be based in truth is so poisonously criticized by some  reviewers, that I can't help remembering all those times when the so much  vaunted &quot;real&quot; science was wrong. The Java Man comes to mind, and  Troy, and the fact that Mayans didn't know the wheel (wrong: they did).  Examples are many. Science is good and necessary. But scientists are  fallible, too. The Flem-Ath's book proposes an elegant, novel idea that  deserves a hearing, not a summary dismissal. It is quite disturbing to read  reviews such as one where the reader states that everything regarding earth  crust displacement is garbage and has been proven to be so, and then  consult a geology textbook for college and find the candid assertion that  we really don't know &quot;exactly&quot; the composition of the planet  beyond the crust. Science can defend itself with the facts and doesn't need  self-appointed champions to foolishly charge against anybody who dares have  a different opinion or propose a new theory. Besides, the Flem-Aths are not  attacking anyone. They are saying &quot;this is what our investigation has  led us to believe.&quot; They may be wrong, in which case they are in good  company with all those scientists who gave us perfect dates for the  peopling of the Americas; certainty regarding the Mayan ignorance about the  wheel; certainty about the Flood being nothing but the overflowing of the  Tigris-Euphrates basin; certainty about Neanderthal; certainty about the  poles never shifting; certainty about catastrophes not playing a  significant role in evolution... So many certainties that must be changed  later on.	2000-01-27
US	50200290	R1B6GK1B0V14DY	0517593483	114266213	Fingerprints Of The Gods: The Evidence of Earth's Lost Civilization	Books	5	1035	1117	N	N	As Valid As the Established Views	In his intriguing work, Graham Hancock offers a number of mysteries regarding Humanity and Civilization, and then proceeds to write his conclusions. I must say I found his ideas quite plausible, mostly because  he is not alone in this field and many other authors, working  independently, have also published similar books, or works that deal with  areas that coincide with Hancock's main conclusions. It is amazing, though,  to read so many of the negative comments loaded with animosity and almost  personal loathing of not only the book, but of the author as well. Also, to  those readers who patronizingly tell the rest of us to read real science,  or check with real archaeologists, the truth is that scientists are every  bit as passionate about their dogmas, as religious fanatics are about  theirs. Peer review is all very well, as long as you don't deviate from the  established paradigm. Otherwise your career as a scientist is in serious  jeopardy. It happened to geologist Virginia Steen-McIntyre, who went ahead  with her dating of a Mexican site: she was fired, her career ended, and the  date for the site was established at a less provocative age that didn't  threaten conventional wisdom. Therefore a message to those who trust  &quot;science&quot; will provide the answers: it will, but since science is  made by humans, imperfection at all levels is part of the baggage. The  so-called &quot;Anomalous Objects&quot; in museums fill rooms, almost  nobody gets to see them, and they are there, stashed away, because they do  not fit with our traditional view of history, geology, archaeology, etc.  Graham Hancock has simply published a book that forces us to question the  validity of the information previously absorbed, and brings forward ideas  from other people which have as much validity as the traditionally taught  history of Egyptians or Mayans. The truth is, when the evidence presented  by archaeologists, egyptologists, and other professionals is examined  critically, the traditional school is very far from convincing. This does  not mean that the general public is ignorant or gullible. It means that  when we cannot build a replica of the Great Pyramid today, with our  technology (the Japanese tried and failed, and theirs was a far smaller  &quot;scale&quot; replica), but are expected to believe that copper-tools  wielding Egyptians could (2.3 million blocks of stone; weights going from  1.5 tons to 15 and 17 tons; &quot;killer&quot; slope of 52 degrees; near  perfect alignement; perfect 90-degree corners; perfectly cut diorite  blocks, and so on), then is when inquisitive, intelligent people wonder,  How is that possible? Since traditional science provides answers that prove  usatisfactory because they really feel like nonsense, people will look for  alternative scenarios. Graham Hancock provides such scenario. He may be  wrong, but his points are as solid, or more, than those of the now-accepted  school of thought.	2000-01-26
US	50200290	R203WCRT20HCD2	0892817321	285573886	Shattering the Myths of Darwinism	Books	5	55	86	N	N	Excellent effort joins others to question dogma.	This is an edited review of Richard Milton's &quot;Shattering the Myths of Darwinism&quot; but, first, my apologies to all those who read this review before September 4, 2001. I had inadvertedly stated that Michael Behe, whom I mention in the review, was &quot;not&quot; a creationist. However, the whole point of his book &quot;Darwin's Black Box&quot; is that there must be intentional design, hence &quot;creation,&quot; in order to explain the complexity of life. This is not a position I embrace, but I do not reject it out of hand, either. My mistake was to group Milton, Hsu, and Behe in one long sentence that collided with the facts. To err is human<BR>&quot;Shattering the Myths of Darwinism&quot; was clear and concise, and it also provided me with a fresh look at a subject that is, unfortunately, treated more like a religion than like a scientific theory. Evolution may very well have happened exactly the way neo-Darwinists claim it did, but the fact is that the hard evidence is really not there, and from different disciplines people have started to come forward and put this theory to the rigorous test of the scientific method. Milton is not the first to challenge evolution, but is one of the most articulate and effective. The traditional scientific community has reacted the same sad way they accuse religious zealots of behaving: name calling, misinterpreting the data offered in the book, misquoting, or simply refusing to discuss the subject like educated, cultured, scientifically trained adults, because it goes against their pet belief. They have made a theory an object of cult, a pseudo-religion that does not tolerate dissent. It is no wonder that so many scientists will privately accept doubts regarding evolution, but publicly they won't comment. For anyone interested in this subject, I strongly recommend two other books: &quot;The Great Dying&quot;, by Kenneth Hsu; and &quot;Darwin's Black Box&quot;, by Michael J. Behe. Hsu is a geologist who tackles the inherently racist subtext of evolution and then proceeds to dissect the history of extintions in this planet to make his point that evolution little had to do with who survived each catastrophe, and who perished. Behe is a biochemist who will tell you that of all papers published in the last decades regarding cillia, flagella, and other &quot;simple&quot; examples of evolutionary steps, not one of them explains how these &quot;simple&quot; appendages evolved: evolutionists simply assume that they evolved and start from there. Milton and Hsu are authors that escape the tired stigma of being &quot;creationists,&quot; for the rather convincing fact that they are not, and they present their cases about serious doubts regarding evolution with clarity, rigor, and an absolute lack of religious bias. Behe is a scientist who is also a creationist, but the science in his book is clear and very convincing. Those who have stated that Milton's views are &quot;creationism,&quot; either didn't read his book, or are so mortified that anyone would dare challenge their belief that their reaction only displays their inability to grasp a basic tenet of science: we must question ideas, even laws, in order to advance. Milton joins his inquiring mind and his questions to our never ending pursuit of knowledge. A highly recommended book. And just in case, I am also an atheist, a college student, and a man who reads science books for the pure joy of it, not because I have to. Excellent work, Mr. Milton.	2000-01-23
US	50200290	R2KO5AVSTXS3QJ	0393318397	296671544	Semites and Anti-Semites: An Inquiry into Conflict and Prejudice	Books	5	87	102	N	N	A must-read.	I call this book &quot;A must-read&quot; because if you are even considering the subject of anti-Semitism, or the Arab-Israeli conflict, or just plain prejudice regardless of what kind of prejudice is analyzed, its  285 pages are the perfect place to start. Bernard Lewis writes about  anti-Semitism in his areas of expertise (the Arab world, the Moslem world,  the Middle East) as one would write about an illness, a particularly ugly  kind of illness. He is like a compassionate physician called to observe and  diagnose a patient who has been infected with a horrible disease that is  consuming his (or her) body and soul. As a non-Jew and an immigrant in the  United States, I have often encountered Arabs who mistake me for someone  who will share their hatred of Jews, simply because we share the immigrant  experience in the US. This has happened in far too many occasions to be  considered unimportant. The vast majority of Arabs that I've met in eleven  years in this country, have assumed (correctly) that I have a Christian  education, and (incorrectly) that I have been infected by the anti-Jewish  syndrome that has, tragically, been most evident in Christian societies for  two thousand years. Bernard Lewis' book has helped me understand this  bothersome fact of life in my dealings with Arabs for the last eleven  years. It was in part this book what provoked Edward Said's reaction  against, and verbal abuse of, Bernard Lewis, and this, in turn, made me  interested in the work of Edward Said. I have read now several of Professor  Lewis' works and several collected articles by Edward Said, and I cannot  find validity in the passionate, but flimsy arguments that Said puts  forward to attack Lewis, like claiming that the latter has no knowledge of  -or intentionally ignores- the problems of the Middle East in which many of  Lewis' examples of anti-Semitism take place. If anyone reads two books by  Bernard Lewis, it must become clear that the man understands his subject.  So,&quot;Semites and Anti-Semites&quot; is a must-read for those who want  to see patterns of hatred in order to fight against them. It also showed me  two totally different authors, with a completely different set of ethics:  on the one hand, Lewis is serious, methodical, and compassionate of both  the victims and the hatemongers. On the other, Said has been unmasked  recently in &quot;Commentary&quot;, in an article by Justus Weiner, as  someone who lied about his past to &quot;make up&quot; a biography as a  Palestinian refugee. &quot;Semites and Anti-Semites&quot; deals exactly  with this kind of people.	2000-01-23
