US	50217473	R1Z9RY2LXYD9F5	0809046377	400560143	Fortune's Formula: The Untold Story of the Scientific Betting System That Beat the Casinos and Wall Street	Books	3	10	20	N	N	Few Formulas	The work of Thorp and his very impressive associates is fresh and interesting.  A review by Gaetan Lion below explains very well, I think.  Editors encourage authors to go light on true mathematics, mathematics formulas, and mathematics derivations.  The author has done that.  While that will be admirable to a general audience and extremely laudable from the editor's point of view, it isn't satisfactory to me.  For me, the real learning is done in tracing through the formulas and derivations.  For that, the most useful part of the book is the bibliography.  Of course, you should understand that I enjoy reading textbooks.  This is not really one of them, although I consider it well worth reading for entertainment.	2005-09-27
US	50217473	R3653TF71Y7POH	1566565960	504038536	The War on Truth: 9/11, Disinformation and the Anatomy of Terrorism	Books	3	8	18	N	N	Important, not fine tuned	The \\"war on terror\\" has left me very confused.  Whenever I see oppositional figures, they are very difficult to understand.  They seem to be raging lunatics, screaming incoherently about \\"America, the great Satan.\\"  Really, they seem uncivilized, barbaric, and unquestionably insane.  That is the appearance---to me.  This is not at all useful.  We cannot suppose we understand another person---even our enemy---if we cannot reasonably state his point of view.  Certainly I could not. <br /> <br />This book is so wonderful because it strips away the insane, bearded exterior of the opposition and states the underlying point of view in a thorough, coherent, and factual way.  So, this is a very great service. <br /> <br />To me, the book seems to adopt the sort of extreme position that might serve as a debating position and not as an attempt to find the truth.  The author asserts, for example, that the Soviet Union was basically a peaceful giant.  According to this view, the Soviets did not actually pose a menace during the cold war.  They were not dangerous.  They were not expansionist or land grabbing.  The United States, in this view, built the cold war into an unnecessary crisis (basically by propaganda) and used the opportunity to further its own separate agenda.  This sort of extreme view ignores too much.  The author should visit Prague in spring or the shipyards of Poland if he really wants to add balance.  The truth is not so extreme, either for the Soviet experience or for the current confrontation with the most radicalized Islam. <br /> <br />Still, there is a lesson for us here, too.  While the author has chosen the opposite extreme point of view, his point of view is not without fact or merit.  The German people have always been a great people.  As it happens, they managed their government poorly in the 1930's, and it caused a nasty dust up in the 1940's.  We seem, in the United States, to be similarly mismanaging our own government---even though we, too, meanwell.  Our government attacked Iraq under the slogan \\"WMD\\" when there proved to be no WMD.  We can discuss whether that is incompetence or criminal action.  The author would suggest it is neither.  The author would suggest it is part of a larger game.  That may be in doubt, but there is no doubt that some correction is needed.	2005-08-14
US	50217473	RQJFUBV7RXMIP	0965114554	474262490	The Roar of the Huntids: A novel about the empowerment of an empath	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Grain of Salt	Because I have not read this book, you have to take my review with a grain of salt.  I avoid fiction, generally.  I have studied the rest of the books Ms. Rosetree has written with some care. <br /> <br />I just came from a working session with Ms. Rosetree.  Her skills are quite unusual indeed (in my experience), but they are objectively verifiable in many convincing ways.  She is \\"for real\\" and there is no need to invest great faith in her work.  It stands up to examination, and her results are remarkable (to me). <br /> <br />Because of her extraordinary personal abilities, I take the view that this is not useless, although perhaps entertaining, fiction (as I regard essentially everything Dickens ever wrote).  This author would not have written a book that is not instructive in a much larger sense, and I now feel the need to read this book, too.  In this case, I regard it as instruction through storytelling.  If I did not think it would necessarily be instructional, I would not read it (you can take that to the bank).	2005-06-11
US	50217473	R337D1L5NRN1U6	0936185082	658259945	Shaolin Secret Formulas for the Treatment of External Injury	Books	5	12	12	N	Y	Generous Author	This is a reference book and not really a text or descriptive reading.  It is mainly a list, with terse but very useful commentary, of recipes for making helpful remedies.  The ingredients are not all easily available in most North American towns.  Many ingredients will not be easy to get, even at a proper Chinese herbal store.  Still, the documentation is sufficiently useful that any resourceful person will be able to produce the described medicines.  By making this available to a general audience, the author has given humanity a very great gift.  I just hope we will use it properly.  It can be a great help for an extremely broad range of medical needs.	2005-05-05
US	50217473	RIXFGM9FSGJZE	0679454438	148918425	The Road to Reality : A Complete Guide to the Laws of the Universe	Books	5	21	28	N	Y	Principia	Isaac Newton seems to have been, generally, all ill tempered and and arrogant professor at Trinity College, Cambridge, University.  Despite those considerable shortcomings, he did produce absolutely top rate mathematics and physics.  His volume, Principia, not only reported the best thinking of the day, it remained the latest word, in some sense, on cutting edge mathematical physics until the abrupt transition from 1906 to 1926, when realtivity and quantum theory became credible. <br /> <br />This book is a gem.  The author seems to be a very decent person and not wildly arrogant.  While Cambridge and Trinity College, in particular, are certainly wonderful institutions, he comes from still a better one, namely Oxford.  It reports, in a non-trivial form, both a broad and a deep view of all the important mathematical physics of our day.  The literature is so voluminous, that this can only be thought of as an extremely intelligent and coherent summary.  There is a very complete and correct bibliography with notes to guide the reader to further study as necessary.  While this is unlikely to hold sway for centuries, as did the monumental book by Penrose's crusty precursor, it is certainly the Principia of the day and a treasure for everyone truly interested in any aspect of modern physics.	2005-04-15
US	50217473	R2BFONAC99HUHN	0939616114	448380158	Japanese Classical Acupuncture: Introduction to Meridian Therapy	Books	5	44	45	N	Y	Scrutable	My interest in oriental medicine is serious and long-standing, although I have not had the chance to study formally at an established school.  Ancient texts are seldom available in translation and can be extremely difficult to understand when they are available.  Many of the more modern texts are quite dogmatic.  Like second-rate cookbooks, they may give varying results for the home cook.  Shudo Denmei's book is a wonderful gateway. It gives a very understandable \\"big picture\\" view of acupuncture as it developed from its origins to the present time.  It gives extremely practical ways for a student to begin both study and early clinical experience.  Without translation from theory to actual practice, no such book is worth anything.  This book is the most practical I have seen at making this transition to clinical experience possible.  So, this is a wonderful place to begin.  On the other hand, the author also outlines very clearly at least one respectable path to mastery of the higher complexities of acupuncture practice.  The text can, then, guide a person through long stages of improving practice.  There are other wonderful books (consider, as an example, Dr. Manaka's book), but I know of no other text that is nearly as helpful or as practical, particularly for a person like me.  I have great desire, but I don't catch on easily.  Thanks to the author.	2005-03-21
US	50217473	RT77RWZG4ET2T	0930031954	508367858	Gaviotas: A Village to Reinvent the World	Books	4	13	15	N	N	Not DIY	The vision described in the book is inspiring and very hopeful.  The idea is to use our ingenuity in ways directly adapted to our environment so that small towns can be self-sufficient.  Along the way, very clever uses of wind and water are discovered and described.  If the reader is looking for great general ideas or approaches, this book would be hard to beat.  On the other hand, if you are a garage-tinkerer and would delight in building the clever devices described, this book is close but no cigar.  The drawings offered in the book purposely omit the most important details required to fabricate the devices in a proper working form.  If you are a tinkerer and want to build these \\"goodies,\\" you have three options.  In the U.S., you can e-mail with the \\"Sustainable Village\\" web site and get the plans (eventually---they are not quick in responding).  You can contact the Gaviotas offices in Bogota, Colombia.  You can, of course, also take the basic idea and think through the details for yourself.  That could take longer and be a little more expensive---perhaps. If you primarily want the ideas and the inspiration, then buy the book, by all means.  If you primarily want to tinker and build, go straight for the plans.	2005-03-13
US	50217473	R20DRUWCPPK9TN	0965114546	618797665	Aura Reading Through All Your Senses: Celestial Perception Made Practical (Energy READING Skills for the Age of Awakening)	Books	5	73	80	N	Y	Progress	Most books about auras and aura reading seem to me so much rubbish.  They might talk in a flowery way about the great advantages or high spiritual benefit of perceiving auras.  However, I have not found any help toward experiencing any of the \\"heightened perceptions\\" that any of them talk about.  If we cannot see for ourselves and know for ourselves, is there any real use in it?  Is there any interest whatever?  Not for me. <br /> <br />I wanted to see whatever there is to see.  If there are colors, I'd like to see them and know what they mean.  Well, I don't.  It's that simple, and I am not going to lie to myself or to anyone else about it.  This is a very fine book because it is practical.  It shows me that I can extract information in a tactile way.  That works for me (although I'd still like to see whatever is there) in the sense that I can actually experience it and know for myself.  That's good.  This is the only book I've ever found that gives access to people like me---the people in the cheap seats spiritually and psychically---to these phenomena.  You will notice that Ms. Rosetree has done a lot of work in updating to the second edition.  It's fine work.  So many books are really written for the author (to make money and to show how smart the author is).  Here you have a book written to help the reader live with more grace and insight.  That's what I want.  All congratulations to the author.  Well done.  (If it were not well done, I would have said that as bluntly.)	2005-02-07
US	50217473	R39ZR0PHUBGBE7	0965114589	980439007	Empowered by Empathy : 25 Ways to Fly in Spirit	Books	5	57	63	N	Y	New Possibilities	As a sometimes college math teacher, I am seldom accused of having empathy (particularly just after a final exam).  So, I began reading the book just to see what life might be like for other people, those who did have some empathy. Perhaps it would be a bit like Darth Vader reading about Obi Wan, just to check out the competition.  To my surprise (and a little consternation), I discovered that it is quite possible that I have some empathic attributes myself.  Who would guess? <br /> <br />Many books indeed are really written quite selfishly.  So many are written to show the author to be a talented or clever person.  Those books are really written for the author, and there are very many of them indeed in the psychology/spirituality/self-help area.  Very few are there to help the reader improve his own life.  This book seems to me to be written quite unselfishly, with the purpose of helping the reader to uncover new possibilities in his own life.  In that way, it can be regarded as a practical and helpful book and one that serves in its way to build up civilization. I like to play Tai Chi.  The worst insult you can give to a Tai Chi player is to tell him that his practice is \\"talking Chi Kung\\".  That is, all talk, no show.  This is a real book and not just talk.	2005-02-07
US	50217473	R1A0MGUAZ8S9TI	0938045385	220210229	Tai Chi Chuan and the Code of Life	Books	5	19	19	N	Y	Clear Explanation	Tai Chi has been important to me for decades, and I respect my teacher (not Mr. Horwood).  Nevertheless, my practice has attained only a modest level of sophistication, and the benefits I have derived have been modest.  In searching the literature for help, I have found no shortage of impenetrable and flowery metaphor.  I've found very little that is really practically helpful.  This book is short, but it is very tightly written.  It gives enough history to understand the many different guises under which Tai Chi appears. It explains clearly just WHY my practice is of limited value.  It gives extremely accessible and functional approaches to improvement.  Along the way, it imposes a body of knowledge of related symbols that is quite extensive.  This \\"symbolic logic\\" has to be more than just memorized.  A person has to \\"soak it in\\" so that it becomes a sort of second nature.  If I can make an analogy to the production of a fine violin, the \\"symbology\\" is a \\"finish\\" that must not be \\"on the wood\\" but actually a \\"part of\\" the wood itself.  Having prepared properly, the forms can then be used harmoniously.  This seems to me a very excellent and expeditious approach.  In only a couple of years of dedicated (extensive) practice, important gains can reasonably be expected.  I have found nothing else like this---nothing nearly practical.  It is a gift, but it isn't a free gift.  Lots of study and lots of practice are needed, too.  As Mr. Horwood says, if it were easy, it would hardly be worthwhile.  Thanks so much.	2005-01-24
US	50217473	R2X0FOZ9DWR6R1	0375412883	331182632	The Fabric of the Cosmos: Space, Time, and the Texture of Reality	Books	4	6	9	N	N	Sour Medicine	The content of this book is undoubtedly of the very highest value.  It gives a detailed, although totally non-mathematical, account of the great, stunning successes of modern cosmology.  It gives a clear and sensible lay introduction to string theory, and it does so in a reliably correct way.  If we read for the content, then, this book is of first importance.  I consider it compulsory reading.  On the down side, the craftsmanship of the writing itself seems less appealing.  Early in the book, the author discusses particle-wave duality in quantum mechanics at some length.  For me, at least, both Kroemer and Feynman give much better accounts of this important material.  Undoubtedly the author is entirely familiar with both, and I am not sure why his account seems more confused and, perhaps, more confusing than theirs.  Finally, it seems that the book was written very quickly.  Although extensive editing would have been required, it could have been much more concise and much clearer at the same time.  Still, if I want a book from a busy professor active in research---and I do want that---then I have to tolerate quick writing, don't I?  This is a great book to read, but it has no place on my permanent shelf.  Kroemer does.	2004-09-21
US	50217473	ROJVW1GL5WLAR	1401902154	409105258	The Power of Intention	Books	2	15	28	N	Y	Important if True	For me, the book does not read nearly as well as the associated promotional literature.  Much of the book seems to me or strikes me as a plenitude of powerless platitudes.  It all seems that it should be very nice if it actually works.  For some person who somehow gets it to work properly, I'm sure it would be life-changing and very important.  My own experience doesn't suggest very well how it actually could work---at all.  If the book were actually as good as its promotional literature....	2004-09-15
US	50217473	R27Q8ETLR9IYKO	0958670072	525459087	Sleeper Awaken (Atlantean Secrets)	Books	5	22	23	N	N	Fiction???	My work is in engineering.  By preference, I seldom or never read fiction.  If it isn't true, why would I care about it anyway?  No, I prefer graduate texts, thank you.  Further, I've always been wary of robust claims that sound like \\"new age.\\"  Therefore, I've avoided reading this book for a long time.  As it happens, I was wrong.  The other reviewers, especially Ms. Oneida, are quite right.  Just as wonderful music (Chopin, Bach, Mozart, Simon and Garfunkel) may put you into a robust, refreshed, expansive frame of mind, so can this book.  It has a \\"reality\\" in the same internal sense that music does.  I consider most fiction to be pure rubbish, although I consider this to be a noteworthy exception.  To be fair, though, you'd have to see for yourself---know for yourself.	2004-09-04
US	50217473	RRBKQSFECE5O	0385509510	418900469	Under the Banner of Heaven: A Story of Violent Faith	Books	3	5	28	N	N	Scathing if true	My own point of view or bias is that we should ordinarily bend over backwards to live and let live.  Even if another person's approach to life is quite unpalatable to me, I ordinarily attempt to see why it is reasonable and to tolerate it with genuine respect.  This book may be flawed in its point of view.  In actual fact, it seems to me to be quite poorly written.  Chapters bounce back and forth from modern atrocities of fundamentalist Mormons to summaries of Mormon church history.  The point of view seems entirely and completely an indictment of the Mormon religion.  Its history of continuing prophetic revelation seems, in this view, entirely misguided, an unhealthy entity on the border between a sort of madness and outright fraud.  The more recent history involving the polygamist fringe of Mormon culture is portrayed as a sort of systematic sexual abuse that no civilized people could or should tolerate.  The bottom line---as I read the book---is that the modern, main-stream Mormon church is entirely guilty because it effectively tolerates widespread polygamy among its fundamentalist \\"excommunicants\\".  Speaking as a practicing Catholic, and as a Catholic who is deeply embarrassed by our own sexual scandals in my Church, I would have to say that this particular scandal, if portrayed correctly in this book, makes our sexual scandals look trivial, imperceptible, even weak.  It isn't that ours are good---they're terrible, heinous, deeply sinful situations.  Theirs---if this is true... Oh, my.	2004-08-13
US	50217473	R13W5NI5WT15CX	159113479X	901919927	The Resurrected Dead, Now Immortal, Live Among Us: A Manual for Immortality	Books	1	17	24	N	Y	Sublime or ridiculous	This book is well written, carefully worded, and well edited.  It presents a coherent and self-consistent view of spiritual life and the relationship of the cosmos to it.  It could, in actual fact, not only be true, but also a great insight, a great teaching.  It could be so.  Very much the same things could be said about Aristotle's book Physics.  It is intelligently written, self-consistent, and provides a compelling world view.  In neither case, this text or Aristotle's book, would it be particularly possible to conclude it to be wrong from the evidence within it.  Now, because the author has a vivid and experiential view of extra-terrestrials, a segment of the population will automatically consider it to be so much hogwash.  For me, at least, that is not a good conclusion.  I have, I confess, never seen an ETs, but, then, I have never seen the President of Chile, either.  There probably is a President of Chile, even though I haven't seen him.  There may be ETs, too, but I haven't seen them.  As is the case with Aristotle, we need to look beyond the book and see how it squares with our own experience.  We need to subject it to the test of experiment in our own lives.  It certainly is a good book.  As far as I can tell, like Aristotle, it is simply one of very many completely wrong views of the universe.  It isn't stupid or ridiculous, and it may even be right.  For me, it seems to be incorrect.	2004-05-18
US	50217473	R2JTREEO0D4WKM	0958670056	87882846	Awakening the Third Eye	Books	5	106	113	N	Y	It works if you do.	My training is in math and science.  My work is in engineering.  Saints and yogis over centuries have testified credibly that great things are possible, so I consider it likely.  For me, it isn't &quot;real&quot; until I can manage to see for myself.  Consequently, I've looked into lots and lots of spiritual growth books and seminars over a long time.  All of this is done with little progress.  Because I've put in a lot of effort over a long time and gotten essentially no results or even bad results, I postponed buying this book for a long time.  Actually, most of the people I've encountered on the way are &quot;new age&quot; people, and most of them seem to take an immediate and personal dislike to me (especially when I ask something like, &quot;How would I know that?&quot;)  <br />I've been following taped correspondence lessons put out by the author's organization for about a year.  With long and very consistent attention, I have at least some minor results.  So, I bought the book.  This is clearly not another insubstantial new age offering (it isn't &quot;new age&quot; at all).  I would personally like to be able to read the book through like a novel and experience some great catharsis that might give me direct access to new levels of high perception.  Well, it doesn't.  It does give very great and detailed substance.  There isn't much chit chat or filler.  The book is giving information and exercises.  Done consistently over a long time, they actually do work as the author says.  It is a path to improved perception, although it is not a path I've completely finished yet.  At this stage, I've seen for myself many of the starting things.  I recommend this to people who are willing to make a longer term and patient exercise out of the options discussed here.  As I said, I'd like to read it in an evening and realize it on the spot.  A tree doesn't grow big and strong over night.  It can only grow at a natural rate.  This shows how to grow an aspect of perception ata natural rate.  See for yourself.  Know for yourself.	2004-04-02
US	50217473	R1V9WDWVCF4ZHO	1889625019	484143110	Ceramic Houses and Earth Architecture: How to Build Your Own	Books	3	94	97	N	Y	Work in Progress	The author is obviously a person of great vision and enormous generosity of spirit.  The book is very good, and I hope that a rating of three stars isn't some insult where no insult is deserved.  I was very disappointed because I expected a serious discussion of superadobe techniques, which I regard as possibly more practical than the ceramic constructions.  The book has only seven pages treating superadobe.  Those are pasted as an afterthought, right at the end.  They don't constitute a detailed and serious discussion.  As much information can be found on the calearth.org web site.  So, I felt that the advertisements of the book were a little misleading.<br />The book itself is an education on classical earth construction and the improvement produced by firing it.  As a person unfamiliar with architecture and construction, I had hoped to find something like a cookbook.  Just tell me how to build a nice house easily, and I'd be happy to do it.  Part of the education is to realize that things aren't quite so simple.  Many issues arise, and, at the time of its writing, not all of them are well understood or totally settled.  In particular, the details of firing a house into its ceramic status is not only explained in a partial way, but clearly more work is required to get a full understanding.  The author could successfully fire houses himself, but the process was not reduced, at this writing, to entirely simple formulas for the use of lay persons.  In that sense, each person working from the book would need to take on some considerable personal responsibility.  It might not all work correctly.  Consequently, I don't consider this book to be an especially good guide for a novice or amateur builder.  That doesn't mean it isn't worth reading.  However, I wouldn't read it, put up my own dome adobe house, and then sit down for tea underneath my own dome.  The thing would probably fall in.	2004-03-31
US	50217473	R3P5KP0JC7P4B8	0965114538	618797665	Aura Reading Through All Your Senses: Celestial Perception Made Practical	Books	5	25	25	N	N	Skekpticism incorrect	My training is in mathematics, and my work is in engineering.  I believe in the spiritual realm and spiritual experience in an intellectual way, but I have felt shut away from direct experience of those matters.  I bought the book months ago as one of many books which might teach me to experience something more.  I wanted a gateway.  Although several of the exercises worked immediately for me, I got frustrated and set it aside when an exercise of gazing into a mirror yielded absolutely no interesting results at all.  At the time, I took the view that this was just one more of very many complete dud books on the market.  Be honest, you've seen lots of them!<br />My Mom is usually a terrible skeptic.  She considers auras and that sort of thing to be weird and possibly dangerous.  After reading Ms. Rosetree's &quot;Wrinkles&quot; book, Mom devoured this one.  Now I'm doing the exercises more patiently ( and more correctly ) and getting slow, but better progress.  I had expected fireworks, and I had expected it within a short time.  At least for me, it starts subtle and develops slowly, but it does.  I guess this is something like growing flowers.  It has to grow naturally.  Although it failed my initial screening, this does appear to be one of the VERY FEW books that actually gives good and useful HOW TO instruction.  Well done, Ms. Rosetree.	2004-02-23
US	50217473	R4GAEX0ESX5T9	0895261359	182282826	Hatred's Kingdom: How Saudi Arabia Supports the New Global Terrorism	Books	5	19	23	N	N	Context for Policy Making	Quite unpleasant subject matter, coupled with an especially pedestrian style of presentation makes this book absolutely as dry as dust to read.  Having said that clearly, it seems to me a most valuable book.  Part of the reason the book is dry reading is simply that it is factual.  Unlike many books, line after line of this text give explicit facts that can be verified or falsified by further reading.  Factual information can be less pleasant, easy reading than a digested or even \\"sexed up\\" editorial.  So, what I am calling \\"dry as dust\\" can also be seen as elegantly factual---just what we need.<br />The context explained in all detail in this book shows quite precisely the relationship of Wahhabist Islam in Saudi Arabia to the government.  The relationship is unlike what we experience in the West, and a lot of explanation seems needed.  We see here, then, extremely good evidence that \\"Arab extremism\\" is identical with Wahhabism; that it is being exported in a consciously hostile way by the Saudis; and that it is as dangerous to most Muslims as it is to most Christians or Jews.<br />Although this is very important information, it seems not to be entering as it should into policy making in the West.  That needs to be changed.  Perhaps at the next election, we might need a regime change (non-violent, thank you), too.	2004-02-03
US	50217473	R9MO477YVNDMZ	2852740761	430633488	Liber Hymnarius	Books	5	19	20	N	N	Unique	This is the &quot;correct&quot; book to provide the music for Liturgy of the Hours in appropriate Latin Gregorian Chant form.  It is, of course, entirely usual and allowable to pray and sing Liturgy of the Hours in the vernacular.  The power and charm of the Gregorian Chant is somehow in connecting to a truly ancient tradition of living liturgical music which connects to a tradition and practice at once ancient and venerable, yet still living and vibrant.  It is stately and seems to be a real and meaningful avenue to join our prayers with the prayers of generations of people of superior commitment.  The entire book, including its introductions, is solely in Latin.  That is not a particular obstacle, since the Latin encountered is familiar to most Catholics.  The musical notation is the old neume notation and not modern musical notation.  That seemed to me, at first, to be a great disadvantage.  It is, perhaps sadly, entirely appropriate.  The older notation is precisely the right expression for this music, and those of us who are not so familiar with it just have to get used to it.  Sad, but true.<br />There is absolutely nothing wrong with this book, although it is a challenge to get started using it.	2004-01-24
US	50217473	R3DOIZJUW94IOQ	0446678643	741973385	Real Estate Riches: How to Become Rich Using Your Banker's Money (Rich Dad's Advisors)	Books	3	13	14	N	N	Lukewarm	Real estate is undoubtedly important for building wealth.  Dr. De Roos suggests repeatedly in this volume that people can enjoy quite enhanced property values by making improvements that are not costly.  This general way of thinking is important and very valuable.  So, this book is one of very many mass market books that offer some introduction to generally correct ways of thinking regarding real estate.  On the other hand, essentially all the critical pieces of practical implementation seem to be missing.  In Dr. De Roos' market, it is possible to enjoy great increases of value by cheap construction of covered parking.  That may not hold true in every market.  It is so important to be able to assess your own particular market correctly.  At the level of books intended for quite a general audience, I much prefer Diane Kennedy's book.  For more clarity on &quot;how to,&quot; the best book I've found is the ponderous volume by Michael Geltner and ? Miller on Commercial Real Estate.  It isn't easy reading, really, but, then, a person doesn't expect to attain professional status trivially.  Don't you agree?	2003-11-20
US	50217473	R2BPH02K9VZR1S	1568811349	869781786	On Quaternions and Octonions	Books	3	65	74	N	N	Good, but something is better	Conway is an excellent mathematician and an extremely lucid author.  No criticism should be given to any of his writings.  In the case of quaternions (and octonians), a much better, more complete, and more powerful view is achieved by seeing them in the larger setting of geometric algebra.  The geometric algebra gives direct access to all the results and all the geometry of these algebras, and does so in an intuitive and useful way.  I suggest that the new book by Chris Doran and Anthony Lasenby called &quot;Geometric Algebra for Physicists&quot; is a better place, generally, to get acquainted with these issues deeply.  It isn't a criticism of Conway.  It's just an advantage of seeing things in the right context.	2003-07-25
US	50217473	R2H1IT7EQMEMVP	0521480221	921138499	Geometric Algebra for Physicists	Books	5	61	84	N	N	Articulate Path to the Future	The quality and importance of this book could hardly be overstated.  Geometric algebra might casually be considered the \\"correct\\" generalization of linear algebra.  By considering, for a start, directed line segments, the linear algebra courses presently taught in some high schools and all universities achieve miracles.  Although viewed by a few of the slower students as merely unpleasant bookkeeping systems, linear algebra derives its power from allowing algebraic manipulation of sophisticated aggregate objects, namely vectors.  The benefits are not just computational, but stem more importantly from a more powerful and more unified, although slightly more abstract point of view than a student had before studying.  Geometric algebra is all that and much more.  By extending consideration from directed line segments to the inclusion of direct plane segments, directed elements of three space, etc., an extremely flexible and elegant mathematical tool arises.  It allows a deeper, quicker, and more concise treatment of essentially all of modern differential geometry.  Its applications throughout physics are at once simplifications of ordinary matrix treatments and occasions to allow much greater insight.<br />Geometric algebra is a great theory, one of highest importance.  It will, undoubtedly, find a dominant place in our mathematics curriculum at the highest speed allowed by our educational systems (the highest speed being actually quite slow).  This book is an especially good place to begin study.  It starts from the most elementary principles, and exposes the material with very thoughtful, clear presentation.  The economy and elegance of the geometric algebra itself allows this one substantial but not enormous book to reveal great insights into many branches of study, from differential geometry and its applications to gravity theory to quantum mechanics and classical mechanics.<br />If I had no books in my library, I would purchase a Bible.  If I had only the Bible inmy library, I would purchase this book next.  I would certainly study this book in all detail before making a third purchase.  My library already has several books in it.  None of them will be read further until I finish every line, every exercise of this book.  It's an important theory, and it is explained in a very useful and articulate way.  This would, of course, be entirely expected if the authors were from Oxford University.  Since they are only from Cambridge, we might not have expected as much, but we got it, nonetheless.	2003-07-18
US	50217473	R15P6LLKG1HM55	0971500703	172158956	1: I: Reality and Subjectivity	Books	5	85	88	N	N	Stunning clarity	In some broad, general sense, this book should be considered philosophy or theology.  It gives what can reasonably be considered a comprehensive discussion of human consciousness, from the most rudimentary human awareness to the status of great enlightened masters.  While it does stand alone as a complete work, it is the third of Dr. Hawkin's trilogy on consciousness, the first volume being Power vs. Force and the second being Eye of the I.  It is useful to read the books in order, but it is useful to read this book, either in order or out of order.<br />As a mathematician, I really do enjoy reading good math texts.  They teach me something, and I can go away from a session (perhaps an arduous session) with the ability to work new problems.  That is delightful, a real joy.  Very frequently, I have wished for an &quot;engineering theology&quot; text.  By that I mean that I would like to study---perhaps hard---and walk away with the ability to improve my life in some way.  Many of the great mystic writers are very impenetrable for me.  They wax poetic, and I have no way to apply their great ideas to my own situation.  Like Faust, I can say, &quot;There stand I now, poor stupid me, and I'm just as smart as I used to be.&quot;  That is very frustrating.  Perhaps the most accessible of the mystic teachers is St. John of the Cross.  After many years of study, even his simple lessons still elude me.  I have not yet &quot;caught the wave.&quot;<br />Dr. Hawkins explains the entire spectrum of consciousness, right up to enlightenment itself, in a way that is entirely understandable for many people, and certainly for anyone who wants to study hard.  His approach is hardly a workbook, but it does contain enormous numbers of very practical ideas to help any person to improve.  That may not be every person's goal, but it is my goal.  If I didn't want to do better, I would not bother reading a book.  I'd go hit tennis balls or something else.  This book seems more than just sophisticated.  It seems exceedingly sophisticated, and at a high level indeed.  I cannot say that I have encountered a higher level (that I could recognize).  Yet it is understandable and even offers very significant tests most people could do in order to verify its validity.  For me, at least, it is a great lesson indeed,  and I am reading it over and over again.<br />All best wishes to Dr. Hawkins.  (Write another one any day, I'm happy to read it repeatedly.)	2003-05-20
US	50217473	R3CW4GNLC3I62Y	5901257022	53433128	Endogenous Respiration	Books	3	20	21	N	Y	Maybe good idea, Book poorly edited	Frolov's system relies on a small plastic training device, the FRTD-01 (Frolov Respiration Training Device---not included with the book) to teach a new form of breathing.  The training device is filled with a little water, which increases the pressure during both inhalation and exhalation.  While using the device, a person is encouraged to prolong the duration of the exhalation, gradually increasing the length of the exhalation and, therefore, increasing the time between breaths.  This increase is undertaken very gradually and is intended to be sustainable in the sense that it becomes possible to continue functioning comfortably with fewer and fewer breaths taken each minute (during training).  Eventually, this extended breathing pattern is transplanted from training and used through all or most of a person's waking activity.  It should be noted that extremely low breathing rates are said to be obtained by experienced practitioners, who might breathe (in some circumstances) only once every several minutes.  <br />Breathing is obviously foundational to human physical life.  Frolov's claim is that his gradual shift of breathing habit ends up triggering in every cell of the body a completely different and more advantageous cell physiology.  Because it sets the whole body on a different biochemical foundation, very far reaching effects are said to be realized.  In particular, most dread diseases are thought to be eliminated by the natural healing powers of the body, once stabilized by proper breathing habits.  In that sense, then, both great longevity and wonderful freedom from a vast spectrum of diseases is claimed.   <br />In reading the book, I identify four elements of Frolov's scientific argument.  First, we might list actual clinical results.  Many people in Russia are said to have used this for improvement and cure of very many ailments.  This should be properly noted, although the results are admittedly anecdotal and not systematically gathered or reported.  These results would not be easy to verify.  Second, he argues from populations of people known to enjoy great longevity.  He notes that these people are all mountain peoples, and credits their longevity to different breathing habits.  Other people have attributed their longevity to electrical properties of their mountain water.  No reason is offered to explain the connection of breathing habit and longevity.  In that sense, this remains an hypothesis and not a theory or conclusion.  Third, he notes the difference between the energy output of a shark, swimming at very great speed over considerable distance in a dense medium, with a horse.  Of course, a horse would be very winded in similar circumstances.  The missing element of theory here is whether humans have the ability to adopt a physiology more like the shark.  That is not so clear.  Finally, he argues extensively from the action of erythrocytes in cell energetic biology.  These arguments would be transparent to a cell biologist, who would pronounce them easily as true, false, or (most probably) incomplete and unproven.  As an amateur biologist, I am not able to tell whether or not the arguments are good, and I admit that they might be perfect.  I just don't know and have no good way to learn that quickly.  <br />For me, then, the theory is interesting.  Because it leaves so many &quot;missing links&quot; in the theory, the whole book reads---for me---like a very long and arduous list of diseases with glowing claims of what can be accomplished.  It seems, in that sense, very redundant, very poorly organized, and not carefully done.  It is, in fact, so badly written---for me---that I would not buy the book at all.  If interested, I'd look at the web site and perhaps buy the training device.  I will never know whether this is a great thing or a complete waste of time unless I try the little plastic device myself.  I probably will try it.  Wish me good luck.	2003-02-21
US	50217473	R16O9I0WAJQCGP	0938045431	140307840	From Russia with Tough Love: Pavel's Kettlebell Workout for a Femme Fatale	Books	5	24	26	N	N	Not overpriced	Resistance training is entirely new to me.  For that reason, an associate of Mr. Tsatsouline suggested &quot;Tough Love&quot; as a good starting place for me.  I began by buying one (35 lb.) kettlebell and the associated video.  The video is quite specifically instructional and very cleverly and efficiently arranged. Mr. Tsatsouline explains in economical detail exactly what should be done and (as importantly) exactly what must be avoided.  At the same time, attractive (and very strong) female associates demonstrate, both in front view and side view how the moves are accomplished.  <br />The way to prove whether a product is good or bad is to learn its proper use and then use it consistently, almost every day, for a long time.  If you find improvement in yourself, then the product is good.  Otherwise, it is a bad or worthless product.  I am already getting good results.  Of at least the same importance, the exercises don't hurt me (at the time I do them).  I don't feel as though I am systematically injuring myself by doing the exercises (as is sometimes the case with other resistance training that I've tried---very briefly---and abandoned).  Although my own personal proof of this particular pudding is not yet finished, it appears to be going very well.  Apparently, this book/video combination gives very true and useful information in exercise physiology---information many of us can use very much.  Realizing that we are paying for information that we can use to improve our own physical lives a lot, I have to conclude that the materials are not overpriced.  Ineffective instructional materials are overpriced.  This, apparently, is worth the price (and probably more), contrary to some other reviews.	2003-02-17
US	50217473	R2YZH7MPQ6WLAM	0766101681	301196612	Mystic Christianity or the Inner Teachings of the Master	Books	5	29	31	N	Y	Not Orthodox	Although I am faithful in attending church and in studying Christianity through ordinary instructional materials, I feel strongly that something is radically missing in my own understanding and experience of the Christian Mysteries.  As I began reading this book, my prejudice was that it would probably be [bad]---more or less.  In seeking better understanding, I am willing to look down different dead end streets.  After reading the book, I cannot reasonably say it is a dead end.<br />One strong departure of the author's understanding from Orthodox teachings (here, I don't mean the Eastern Orthodox religions, but more populous, American versions of Christianity) is \\"physicality.\\"  Both the Virgin Birth and the Resurrection are ordinarily understood as physical events.  This author understands neither as a physical event.  However, in his approach or understanding, the non-physicality of these events does not actually make them \\"less real.\\"  Certainly, the numerous theologians from my church will object to that.<br />According to the author, most of us receive only the \\"outer\\" teachings of Christianity.  These are not substantially complete.  The more fully developed understanding was made available only to an Inner Circle of believers, originally consisting mainly of The Twelve (apostles).  The inner circle experienced greater teaching, both in a theoretical sense and in an experiential or transformational sense.  From ancient times to the present, these inner teachings have been brought forward continuously, but only to a restricted audience of Occultists of the tradition.  That is the view propounded here.  While outlines of the deeper teaching are stated or at least hinted in the text, it does not really give them in a very direct or explicit way (not as in a textbook).  Many convincing scriptural citations and citations from the Fathers of the Church are provided to support the thesis that the message itself is carried mainly in elite secret societies.  In a sense, the author sounds almost like a Mason in his writing.<br />For more details or \\"how to\\" the reader is refered to the author's book on Gnani yoga and others of the author's writings. On the one hand, the author writes in a credible and mostly self-consistent way and supports a creditable, if quite alternative, view of Christian history.  On the other hand, I'm not sure that it is very useful.  For the practical-minded reader, it does relatively little good to have the \\"real\\" teaching locked away in some secret society somewhere (of course, somewhere secret).  If we can't learn it, too, isn't something unsatisfactory or something missing?  For me, it is.  To be entirely satisfactory, the reader should have a good way to get in on the good stuff, too.  Christianity is not a spectator sport.e, the author sounds almost like a Mason in his writing.<br />For more details or \\"how to\\" the reader is refered to the author's book on Gnani yoga and others of the author's writings. On the one hand, the author writes in a credible and mostly self-consistent way and supports a creditable, if quite alternative, view of Christian history.  On the other hand, I'm not sure that it is very useful.  For the practical-minded reader, it does relatively little good to have the \\"real\\" teaching locked away in some secret society somewhere (of course, somewhere secret).  If we can't learn it, too, isn't something unsatisfactory or something missing?  For me, it is.  To be entirely satisfactory, the reader should have a good way to get in on the good stuff, too.  Christianity is not a spectator sport.	2003-01-30
US	50217473	R2OJZAZY7G70S0	0517703920	633287572	Sacred Contracts: Awakening Your Divine Potential	Books	3	33	45	N	Y	Pleasant but not practical reading	The title and editorial reviews made the book very difficult for a self-help junkie to avoid.  The idea of sorting our self-image via archetypal models isn't really very new, but it seems to me that Ms. Myss has brought it to the market in an understandable and very readable way.  In that sense, she has adapted information palatably for a mass market.  I consider her book to be a very pleasant and entertaining read.<br />In engineering, people talk (endlessly, but usefully) about &quot;convergent algorithms.&quot;  The idea is that they want to design some way to arrive at an answer that they know to be reliable, and they want to arrive there in a finite length of time (even if the finite time is rather long).  Ms. Myss offers very many exercises to the reader, and I have no doubt that different people might find one of them or even many of them both entertaining and useful.  I found essentially all of them entirely frustrating because I wasn't able to arrive at any new insight that was recognizably valid in a finite length of time.  So, I consider her exercises to be &quot;non-convergent&quot; and therefore useless (to me).<br />From my point of view, Ms. Myss has written an excellent book, but she has written it for herself and not for the reader.  The book will show that she is herself a clever and interesting person, and I suppose there's a point to that.  However, I don't think it helped me much to become a more clever or a more interesting person.  So, for me there was no point to it at all.  If I gained anything from it, it was Ms. Myss' description of her own &quot;shadow queen&quot; paradigm.  I have gotten along very poorly with female humanity for a long time.  I recognized the &quot;shadow queen.&quot;  I know her well, although that doesn't help much.  If I could simply &quot;undo&quot; reading this book and reclaim the time that I wasted on it, I would certainly do that.  I recommend against even cracking the cover of this book.	2002-05-29
US	50217473	R1ZYZ64KP5JJ8T	0916349101	953673760	Meditations on the Tarot: A Journey into Christian Hermeticism	Books	5	11	13	N	N	Unusual, insightful, powerful	This book is obviously the product of an entire lifetime of devoted scholarship, meditation, and reflective living.  It introduces the tarot not in the usual sense that we encounter it on the periphery of our lives (as a divination tool or psychic card game), but as a sequence of profound spiritual exercises.  The book is organized as a series of &quot;letters to the Unknown Friend,&quot; each letter explaining in beautiful and elegant depth the meanings surrounding each spiritual exercise.  On the back cover, there is a quote by Fr. Thomas Keating (perhaps the greatest living mystic, at least as far as I know).  Fr. Keating, a man of unimpeachable good judgment, is quoted in this way: he calls the book &quot;the greatest contribution to date toward the rediscovery and renewal of Christian contemplative tradition.&quot;  If he is quoted correctly, that is high praise indeed, coming from a man of such high spiritual accomplishment and great generosity of spirit.<br />Personally, I feel great joy and honor at being addressed as &quot;unknown friend&quot; by the anonymous author.  Surely, this author is a person I would value as a friend.  He reveals something substantial about his Hermetic tradition, a tradition with which I had not been familiar.  I just love the book and recommend it with considerable enthusiasm.<br />You should be aware that the copy that is available at quite a high price, via this page, is not my copy.  I would not sell my copy for that price or for any reasonable price.  (Perhaps Bill Gates might just afford to buy my copy, but just barely.)	2002-02-21
US	50217473	R1176CR0T2L2VM	1885928122	513997288	Initiation into Hermetics	Books	5	33	37	N	Y	Unique	This volume is a workbook.  The exercises it recommends are very specific and very concrete, and there are clear and measurable criteria for their correct completion.  A simple reading of the text (without practicing the exercises) would almost necessarily be wholly unsatisfactory and even frustrating.  Large numbers of startling inferences can be made from reading the text.  However, only through practice can the inferences be verified or denied.  Undoubtedly, many of the exercises recommended here are very difficult to achieve.  The great attraction of the book is that it outlines an obviously rigorous system of practice that may lead the practitioner to a greatly enlarged, enhanced, and integrated life.  Because I have only had the book a short time and my practice is not yet sufficiently intense, I can say almost nothing regarding whether the content is correct or not.  Only personal experience can really tell.  However, the whole system is so detailed, so sophisticated, and so potentially helpful that I would feel cheated in life if I didn't at least try it for myself.  It could, of course, be entirely wrong.  With something of such potential importance, I think it wise for each person to determine the truth or falsity of the claims personally.	2001-12-27
US	50217473	R2UE1GPPQMWCY8	0517884070	366741874	The Psychic Pathway: A Workbook for Reawakening the Voice of Your Soul	Books	4	216	242	N	N	Palatable, practical, effective	Mathematics and science naturally attract me, and I can study those subjects myself.  All my adult life, I've realized that I could use more extended and honed perceptions, not only for my own good, but for the good of the people around me, too.  Therefore, I've sought very hard to develop the meditational or spiritual or psychic side of life.  Along the way, I've consumed many seminars and read many books.  While I imagine that some of those books were written only to make money, I do not assert that as the truth (and I have not in the past, either).  I can say, with certainty, that many of those books and seminars have been closed to me.  By that, I mean that it was clear to me that the writer and perhaps many other students or readers &quot;got it,&quot; even though it was abundantly clear (and frustrating) that I did not.  It doesn't matter too much whether the material is based on someone's strong reality if we ourselves cannot have some share of the experience.  I bought this book, and I have used it for a while now.  My experience is that this book is open to me in a meaningful sense.  I can do as it says, and I do actually have an improved experience.  I wish I could get a better effect and get it more quickly, but the point is that with attention even a person like me actually gets some effect.  I have read most of the book, but its main value is in working through the exercises, and I go slower than the schedule written in the book.<br />Because the book works for me at least a little, I contacted Ms. Choquette and asked for a personal reading.  She gave it to me.  In preparation for the reading experience, I was hopeful in the sense that Ms. Choquette seemed to understand clearly that there is no real use in children's games.  I don't care about lotto numbers or the identity of my &quot;soul mate.&quot;  While her concerns are clearly different than mine, my guess, at least, is that Ms. Choquette doesn't care much about lotto numbers, either.  The readingshe gave me was truly stunning.  It is impossible for me to retain objective clarity and say whether or not the hints she gave me will turn to my practical advantage in future.  Time will tell something about that.  The &quot;magic&quot; of the reading was that she framed a complete and sophisticated understanding of my whole life and times that was so far outside my own imaginings that I would never have thought about it.  Whether her version is to be understood metaphorically or in a historical sense (and I cannot really say), it was the reframing that was so stunning and which at least potentially carried very great insight.<br />I tell you solemnly (Amen, Amen, I say unto you), Sonia Choquette is sincere and has honed a real and meaningful psychic perception far beyond any level that I had previously encountered in anyone.  I found her reading difficult to listen to properly, and I have no doubt that it was difficult for her to give to me.  I recommend her and her books as being undoubtedly real and potentially a doorway or gateway for anyone (even someone previously frustrated, as I have been) to this realm of extended perception.  I would have given 5 stars if I had been able to do the exercises faster (not her fault).  Publicly, I acknowledge and thank Sonia Choquette.	2001-12-23
US	50217473	R1M9KMKU41BD6T	0399526609	935033409	Lose your Love Handles: A 3 Step Program to Streamline your Waist in 30 Days	Books	4	47	48	N	Y	The Perfect Plan	Mr. Shilstone's three steps can be summarized as follows: (1) shift your eating habits permanently, in a minimally restrictive way, guided by the glycemic index, (2) accomplish a full hour of aerobic exercise at a good intensity every day, (3) perform a serious but short core strengthening routine every day.  That's the program.  <br />The dietary portion of the program (certainly not a conventional &quot;diet&quot;) is minimally restrictive both of the sort of foods you might be allowed to eat and the quantity of food you might be allowed to eat.  You could eat like a lumberjack (if you wanted to do that) and still be well within the program. The key observation is &quot;glycemic index,&quot; which Mr. Shilstone explains in more detail and more correctly than I could here.  This is an important and very healthy suggestion, which was new to me.  It is, in a sense, the natural and appropriate correction for most of the diets that are usually suggested, even the low-fat diets suggested by physicians for heart patients.  More scientific basis of this is explained in Dr. Schwartzbein's books (The Schwarzbein Principle and her cookbooks), and related information appears in Cheryle Hart's book on Insulin-Resistance.  This is a very good idea that I found in Mr. Shilstone's book first.  My only criticism is that more information is really required than Mr. Shilstone has room to include in this small book.<br />The section on aerobic exercise for your hour a day is excellent.  While power walking will certainly suffice, you are in no way limited.  Very good and useful information is given for you to substitute any number of activities that might suit your changing interests.  He gives detailed information here about the time of day when you can most usefully exercise (late afternoon, an hour and a half before going to supper) and what criteria must be fulfilled for your body to be able to burn fat (you only start burning fat well after a half hour of exercise).  These insightful details will help a lot in monitoring your own effectiveness easily and without worry.  He gives you that extra knowledge to know when you're done.<br />The core strength workout is given in two forms.  Either form, when learned, can be accomplished in some time ranging between fifteen and thirty minutes.  The simpler routine uses only a weight, something like a medicine ball (although a middle sized rock would do the same job).  The more advanced routine requires a Swiss ball and some tubing.  Both are efficient and well constructed routines.<br />The bottom line to a book like this is simply whether it works or not.  My situation is not like every person's.  I'm reasonably active, a little more active than the usual &quot;weekend warrior,&quot; neither a total couch potato nor actually in good physical shape.  I've carried between 10 and 14 pounds of extra weight that I couldn't lose for more than 10 years' time.  I've tried a lot of ways to make it go, including bicycling and some moderately serious running (two miles after supper every night).  Nothing has worked.  Now, I don't do the cooking or the shopping in our house. According to the guidelines, our eating habits are neither exemplary nor totally wrong.  So, as I count it, I am simply non-compliant with his step 1).  From the start, I have been totally compliant and vigorous in step 2) via power walking.  I am learning his step 3) slowly and integrating it into my routine (the bigger step) slowly.  So, I would consider myself about half compliant with step 3) at this stage.  So, according to my guesses, I am about half way doing his program.  Happily, in this half-way mode, I'm systematically losing both inches and pounds.  Now, if I said that I am losing about a pound every ten days or so, that would not be in the spirit of the book.  Mr. Shilstone doesn't recommend the use of scales to monitor your progress. He asks you to use the tape measurement of your waist.  So, I should say that I am losing something very roughly like an inch a month on the waist.  (My estimate is rough since I am non-compliant and prefer to use a scale.)<br />My congratulations to Mr. Shilstone.  I think this is a uniquely useful book and one that most people I know could usefully read.  There is no question that this is a very good and completely adequate program to manage the &quot;love handle&quot; problem.  The cost of this is the work of integrating the suggestions into daily life.  Not everyone will want to do that (it costs about an hour and a half a day, and whatever trouble it takes to changing your cooking and eating habits).  The results are a significant boost to good health, vigor, and a sense of well being.  Not everyone will choose that.  My suggestion is that you should only buy the book if you intend to do the routines systematically.  While a useful outline, it is not really the best entertainment reading.  I gave it only four stars because I consider it incomplete in the nutritional section.  I still need to buy other cookbooks to help me become &quot;fully compliant&quot;.	2001-10-18
US	50217473	R3BDE847JL7V09	0966447476	940037103	The Income Stream	Books	4	21	21	N	Y	Good for Beginners	Financially sophisticated readers would probably be wasting their time by reading this book.  Perhaps those people should try Brueggeman and Fisher or Pyhrr et. al.  The other &quot;downsides&quot; of the book are these:  The production quality is not excellent (looks as if it was published on a xerox machine). Sometimes concepts (e.g. cap rate) are used in the text before they're explained.  Those are the reasons for giving a three or four star rating and not a five star rating.<br />Unfortunately, I have lived my adult life as a financial illiterate.  This was one of the first books I read in an effort to self-educate, and I am very glad I read it.  It walks the reader through a series of forms which describe the relevant financial profiles of any particular investment real estate opportunity.  It then uses the &quot;Internal Rate of Return&quot; concept to evaluate and compare investments.  This technique effectively reduces the after-tax income from any particular investment (real estate or not) to an average yearly interest rate.  On the way to achieving this apples-to-apples comparison, the author not only points out the time value of money and its importance in the computation but also gives a very clear outline of all the risks that have to be evaluated on the way to making a decision about any real estate investment.  It seems to me that this is the easiest and shortest correct way to encapsulate ALL the important issues of such an investment.  Einstein said that everything should be made as simple as possible, but not simpler.  Most mass market books actually make things much simpler than they really are, and that can be dangerous.  For my fellow financial illiterates, it might be too much to step directly into the more advanced texts.  This was a good, thorough introduction with minimal pain (not painless).<br />The book contains no mathematical formulas, really (just IRV, interest is rate times value).  This is both an advantage and a disadvantage.  Forpeople who dislike math or are afraid of it, there is certainly a chance to &quot;just do it&quot; and make it work without worrying about formulas.  On the other hand, for mathematically inclined, it is really not so hard to work out the needed formulas and make it work nicely.  You should be warned that you must either make your own formulas or be prepared to purchase a small business-oriented hand calculator if you want to use the techniques in this book well.  It also attempts to sell a moderately-priced software package for your spread sheet.  That software is not actually required.  The calculator (or formulas) are required.	2001-09-05
US	50217473	R3S7VXCE2UT3OU	1561703494	586649999	Infinite Self: 33 Steps to Reclaiming Your Inner Power	Books	5	62	67	N	N	Demystifying mysticism	I am a sincere, believing Roman Catholic, but a very frustrated one. A deep, important, and powerful mystery, namely the person and message of Jesus Christ, lies at the heart not just of my religious experience, but at the heart of the religious experience of Christians with many names (Lutheran, Baptist, Presbyterian, etc.) The core mystery itself seems to me quite unrestricted and open for the growth, fulfillment, and even enjoyment of all.  Still, too often our practice becomes mechanical (tick tock) and we may find that our experiential entry into the true mystery is at best not helped and perhaps, at worst, a bit hindered by the religious organization or ceremonial forms of our churches. That is a great shame.<br />If nothing whatever that Stewart Wilde wrote had any meaning or validity at all, his book would still be a great delight to read. It has a wonderful, light, conversational form that is as engaging as a conversation with a lively friend. So, the act of reading it is very pleasant.  Much more importantly, the content of the book is extremely well balanced, much better than any other &quot;religion and spirituality&quot; book that I have ever read. On the one hand, it makes no promise at all of any quick fixes or &quot;magic bullets&quot;. On the other hand, it avoids the sort of purely poetic expressions that seem to please many readers even though they offer no clear, concrete path to a better life or a better religious experience.  It replaces that with extremely practical suggestions that can be implemented directly.<br />I have the very highest reverence for scripture. I study it as best I can and with some seriousness of purpose.  I regard it as the inspired Word of God.  Still, mostly I fall very short of an actual understanding of it.  If I were to be stranded on a desert island and allowed only one &quot;religion and spirituality&quot; book, I would recognize the overwhelming inspiration and perfection of the Bible, but I'd take this book withme instead, simply because I can understand it and hope to grind out some real progress by its use.<br />Stewart Wilde, if you're out there somewhere, I say Boogaloo, I thank you.	2001-04-08
US	50217473	R370U29WMBQFIU	1561703494	586649999	Infinite Self: 33 Steps to Reclaiming Your Inner Power	Books	5	2	4	N	N	Demystifying mysticism	I am a sincere, believing Roman Catholic, but a very frustrated one. A deep, important, and powerful mystery, namely the person and message of Jesus Christ, lies at the heart not just of my religious experience, but at the heart of the religious experience of Christians with many names (Lutheran, Baptist, Presbyterian, etc.) The core mystery itself seems to me quite unrestricted and open for the growth, fulfillment, and even enjoyment of all.  Still, too often our practice becomes mechanical (tick tock) and we may find that our experiential entry into the true mystery is at best not helped and perhaps, at worst, a bit hindered by the religious organization or ceremonial forms of our churches. That is a great shame.<br />If nothing whatever that Stewart Wilde wrote had any meaning or validity at all, his book would still be a great delight to read. It has a wonderful, light, conversational form that is as engaging as a conversation with a lively friend. So, the act of reading it is very pleasant.  Much more importantly, the content of the book is extremely well balanced, much better than any other &quot;religion and spirituality&quot; book that I have ever read. On the one hand, it makes no promise at all of any quick fixes or &quot;magic bullets&quot;. On the other hand, it avoids the sort of purely poetic expressions that seem to please many readers even though they offer no clear, concrete path to a better life or a better religious experience.  It replaces that with extremely practical suggestions that can be implemented directly.<br />I have the very highest reverence for scripture. I study it as best I can and with some seriousness of purpose.  I regard it as the inspired Word of God.  Still, mostly I fall very short of an actual understanding of it.  If I were to be stranded on a desert island and allowed only one &quot;religion and spirituality&quot; book, I would recognize the overwhelming inspiration and perfection of the Bible, but I'd take this book withme instead, simply because I can understand it and hope to grind out some real progress by its use.<br />Stuart Wilde, if you're out there somewhere, I say Boogaloo, I thank you.	2001-04-08
US	50217473	R2MTCQ3WZO6OD9	0767904524	3900869	How to Give Her Absolute Pleasure: Totally Explicit Techniques Every Woman Wants Her Man to Know	Books	4	44	68	N	Y	Good for beginners	I read this book, as I read many books, mainly to cure my own ignorance. That is, I just didn't know a lot of these things, and I wanted to know. My primary worry before reading the book was that I would get hold of some sort of pornography, whether soft, medium, or hard. I did want information, and I didn't want cheap thrills. The book was good for me. The book seemed to be very informative, at least for a person who knows relatively little. In was quite responsibly written, with a very long and very unappealing account of sexually transmitted diseases (not the information I sought, not appealing, but still very useful to know). I would recommend this book as one a parent might use to augment sexual education for teenagers. It gives more detailed and complete explanations than many, somewhat more &quot;politically correct&quot; books dare to give. That is more satisfactory to a beginner's curiosity. It does this without compromising a reasonable standard. While it is possible that most adults already know much more than is written in this book, it is also possible that much of their knowledge is flawed. From listening to conversations in the locker room, my guess is that several of my male associates could use some refresher study in this particular subject. (Of course, I don't actually know, and I don't actually want to know that.) I gave the book only 4 stars, not because I consider it a flawed or poor book, but simply because I want to have more stars to give to other books. The Bible gets 5 stars. A few other books get 5 stars. A 4 star book is still great.	2000-10-15
US	50217473	R2BZ0HDZ0V1LO8	088497104X	367509229	Kundalini : The Mother Power	Books	4	18	18	N	Y	Good lectures	If your intention is to acquire good and reliable information about Kundalini, then this is a very good book. It answers questions like these very well: &quot;Is Kundalini real or is it simply folklore from India?&quot; &quot;What is possible in the full Kundalini experience?&quot; &quot;What are the actual dangers of this phenomenon?&quot; &quot;What are some safe appproaches I could take that will lead me in the direction of Kundalini?&quot;<br />This text was not written as an instructional book. It is just the transcription of a coherent, but short set of lectures delivered by Sri Chinmoy. It is extremely well organized, clear, and concise. The author speaks with the solid clarity and mature good sense that usually arises only from a direct, complete, and deep personal experience. My own guess or intuition is that Sri Chinmoy has a total experience and complete personal command of this entire phenomenon, beginning to end. It seems to me probable that the author is &quot;the real deal&quot; even though I don't know him. In that sense, I regard this book as much better and clearer information than I could get from another source.<br />My own preferences are not purely informational. I don't like to read a book and say, &quot;Well, that's interesting&quot; and set it down. I like to practice its techniques and get somewhere. While there are some good and useful exercises that a reader can do from this book, the whole subject does not really lend itself to the active or avid amateur reader. The author explains in all detail that an actual teacher is required in this area. We can pick up a tennis racquet and make a try without having any coach or teacher. My hope would be more or less the same with Kundalini. As it happens, Kundalini doesn't work that way. So, if you, too, are a true avid amateur you might be somewhat disappointed with the book (unless, of course, you can find a teacher).	2000-10-09
US	50217473	R3KK6MLUXG31YT	0935216154	527048637	The Collected Works of St. John of the Cross (includes The Ascent of Mount Carmel, The Dark Night, The Spiritual Canticle, The Living Flame of Love, Letters, and The Minor Works)	Books	5	158	164	N	N	Perfect, maybe too perfect	The collected works of St. John of the Cross have been central to my own  search for (or attempt to establish)a deep and authentic spiritual life.  Because John is further removed than I realized twenty years ago from our  current social context, it is very possible to misunderstand John in one  way or another. His guidance is essentially flawless, but his parlance can  be misunderstood. To remedy this in part, I obtained his collected works in  the original Spanish. That has turned out to be helpful. While the  translation is careful and correct, it necessarily fails to preserve the  tone of the original in many specific contexts. To my own &quot;ear&quot;  for prose, John actually speaks in a less sophisticated voice than the  translator gives him. I find that voice easier to understand. My  &quot;bottom line&quot; is that any interested person should definitely buy  this book and read it thoroughly, but be quite careful to understand it in  the original context. I know of no more difficult (or rewarding) book to  read with actual insight.	2000-07-10
US	50217473	R29P03QKT40IBX	3540668713	464246397	Decrypted Secrets: Methods and Maxims of Cryptology	Books	5	18	19	N	N	Excellent Modern Textbook	I read this book in the original German (even though reading in German is still a labor for me), and the effort was amply rewarded. This book is a first course in cryptography, at the upper undergraduate or beginning  graduate level. Its competition would be books like Denning's or Beker and  Piper or Koblitz' series. Denning's book is still great and worth buying  (and Ms. Denning is a wonderful, accomplished, and intelligent person), but  Bauer is more modern and complete. Koblitz' books are all first rate, but  Bauer stays on the task of cryptology much more exactly and usefully. This  is the basis of an excellent course in several German universities,  especially in Munich. If I taught another course purely on cryptography  (and not as part of a larger math curriculum---where Koblitz' book is  best), I would certainly use this as the text. However, even though this is  best, I really think everyone should still buy, read, and treasure Ms.  Denning's book, Cryptology, too. (A true classic is never actually  superseded.) Buy Bauer. It is better than an existing classic. While I  don't have the English version yet, and cannot, therefore, vouch for the  quality of the translation, I think that Springer Verlag is such a reliable  editor that we can both trust that the translation will be good before we  even see it.	2000-06-23
US	50217473	RP7RYR9O2H9DE	0521483913	241586988	A Treatise on the Theory of Bessel Functions (Cambridge Mathematical Library)	Books	5	25	26	N	N	Classic	Watson's classic text was written before the more modern age of &quot;topologically flavored&quot; arguments. Consequently, much of the presentation may appear to be a bit ponderous, relying on explicit calculational detail when that is no longer strictly necessary. By now many  points can be deduced &quot;by pure thought&quot;. However, the text gives  a very complete and deep view of Bessel's functions. Because it &quot;does  everything&quot; it is also a fine and practical way to learn complex  analysis in the style of the &quot;old school&quot;. If you just can't  stand older style writing, you should probably look at Olver's book on  special functions. If you can tolerate the old style, buy this and have  many (many, many) hours of good fun and insight.	2000-01-26
